270 POSTEEIOE BOUNDARIES OF AXILLA. in filaments which supply the skin over the back of this muscle and over the long head of the triceps. Latissimus This muscle forms the posterior margin of the Dorsi. axilla. It arises from the crest of the ilium, from the spines of the two or three upper sacral, all the lumbar, and six lower dorsal vertebra?, and by digitations from the three lower ribs, corresponding with those of the external oblique: in some cases, as it passes over the inferior angle of the scapula, it has an addi- tional origin from the angle. It is inserted by a broad flat tendon, which runs behind the axillary vessels and nerves, into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus. Its nerve is the long sub- scapular branch of the brachial plexus. This muscle lies behind the latissimus dorsi, is Teres jVXajor • • • — ■>' closely connected with it, and assists in forming the posterior boundary of the axilla. It arises from the lower angle of the back of the scapula, and is inserted by a broad flat tendon into the posterior margin of the bicipital groove of the humerus. A bursa or sac, containing serum, to diminish friction, j intervenes between this tendon and that of the latissimus dorsi. f The action of this and the preceding muscle is to draw the humerus inwards and backwards. Its nerve is the middle sub- scapular. This muscle arises from the internal surface of ' L B^LAPLL ms' the scapula, with the exception of the angles and neckj and from intermuscular septa attached to the bony ridges. Its fibres terminate on a strong tendon, which passes under the axillary vessels and nerves, over the inner side of the shoulder- ioint, and is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. The tendon of the muscle is intimately connected with the cap- sular ligament of the shoulder-joint, and between the coracoid process and the tendon is a bursa, which frequently communicates with the joint. Its action is to rotate the humerus inwards. Ij^, nerve comes from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus. Serbatus This muscle covers the side of the chest like a Magnus. girth. It arises from the eight upper ribs by nine slips or digitations, the second rib having two. Its fibres