220 SPHENOPALATINE GANGLION. e. The terminal branch, the infra-orbital, was dissected with the face (p. 93). _ At this stage of the dissection, make a vertical Dissection. ... , . , n , . , ,. r incision rather on one side of the middle line 01 the skull, to expose the cavity of the nose. Thus, by searching for the spheno-palatine foramen, we are enabled to expose the spheno- palatine ganglion. This may be readily made out by tracing the terminal branch of the internal maxillary artery which comes through the foramen into the nose. The student should next cut away the thin plate of bone which forms the inner boundary of the palatine canal. Then, by tracing upwards the branches contained within the canal, he will find the ganglion. Spheno-pala- This ganglion is called, after its discoverer, tine Ganglion. Meckel's ganglion. It is about the fifth of an inch in diameter. It is situated in the spheno-maxillary fossa, imme- diately on the outer side of the spheno-palatine foramen. Like other ganglia, it has three roots, a sensory, from the superior maxillary; a motor, from the great petrosal branch of the facial; and a sympathetic, from the carotid plexus. Its branches pass upwards to the orbit; downwards to the palate; inwards to the nose; and backwards to the pharynx, as follows :— a. Ascending branches.—These are very small, and run through the spheno-maxillary fissure to be distributed to the periosteum of the orbit.* b. Descending branches.—To see these the mucous membrane must be removed from the back part of the nose : we shall then be able to trace the nerves through their bony canals. Their course is indicated by their accompanying arteries. They descend through the palatine canals, and are three in number. The anterior palatine nerve, the largest, de- scends through the posterior palatine canal to the roof of the mouth, and then divides into branches, which run in grooves in the hard palate nearly to the gums of the incisor teeth, where it communicates with the * Anatomists describe several branches ascending from the ganglion, one to join the sixth nerve, another to join the ophthalmic ganglion, and, lastly, some to join the optic nerve through the ciliary branches.