190 DISSECTION OF THE LAEYNX. The os hyoides is connected with the thyroid cartilage by several ligaments, which contain a quantity of elastic tissue. There is :—1. The thyro-hyoid mem- brane, which proceeds from the superior border of the thyroid cartilage to the upper and posterior part of the hyoid bone. In front of this membrane there is a bursa, of which the use is to facilitate the play of the thyroid cartilage behind the os hyoides. The central portion is stronger than the lateral, and is called the anterior thyro-hyoid ligament Through the lateral part of this membrane, the superior laryngeal nerve and artery enter the larynx. 2. The right and left lateral thyro-hyoid ligaments extend between the extremities of the greater cornua of the os hyoides, and the ascending cornua of the thyroid cartilage. They often contain a small nodule of cartilage, cartilago triticea. Cartilages of The framework of the larynx is composed of the Larynx. nine cartilages—viz., the thyroid, the cricoid, the two arytenoid, the two cornicula laryngis, the two cuneiform cartilages and the epiglottis. These are connected by joints and elastic ligaments, so that they can be moved upon each other by their respective muscles; the object of this motion being to act upon two elastic ligaments called the vocal cords, upon the vibra- tion of which phonation depends. Thyroid Car- This cartilage, so called because it shields the tilage. mechanism behind it,* consists of two lateral halves, alw, united at an acute angle in front, which forms the prominence termed the pomum Adami. This prominence pre- sents a notch at its upper part, to allow it to play behind the os hyoides in deglutition. There is a bursa in front of it. Each ala is somewhat quadrilateral in form, and presents for examina- tion two surfaces and four borders. The outer surface of each ala is marked by an oblique line passing downwards and forwards from the upper cornu, which gives attachment to the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles. The smooth surface behind the ridge, gives attachment to the inferior constrictor. The inferior border is slightly arched in the middle, and on either side presents a convex * Qvptos, a shield.