PALM OF THE HAKD. 307 Opponens Pol- This muscle arises from the os trapezium be- LICIS- neath the abductor, and from the annular ligament, and is inserted into the whole length of the radial side of the meta- carpal bone of the thumb. The action of this powerful muscle is to oppose the thumb to all the fingers. Its nerve comes from the median. Reflect it from its insertion, to expose the follow- ing :— Flexor Brevis This muscle has two origins; one, the super- Pollicis. ficial, from the annular ligament and os trapezium ; the other, the deep, from the os trapezoides, os magnum, and the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones. It is inserted by two strong tendons into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb ; the superficial tendon being connected with the abductor pollicis, and the deep one, with the adductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is found in each of the tendons. The tendons of insertion of this muscle are separated by the long flexor tendon of the thumb and the arteria magna pollicis. Its action is to bend the first phalanx of the thumb. The superficial portion is supplied by the median nerve ; the deep, by the ulnar. Adductor Pol- This muscle arises from the palmar aspect of licis. the shaft of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger; its fibres converge and are inserted, along with the deep or inner portion of the flexor brevis pollicis, into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Its action is to draw the thumb towards the palm, as when we bring the tips of the thumb and little finger into contact. It is supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, which also supplies the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. The other muscles of the ball of the thumb are supplied by the median nerve. Muscles of the The muscles of the little finger correspond in ball of the . some measure with those of the thumb. Thus Little Finger. there is an abductor, a flexor brevis, and an op- ponens minimi digiti. All derive their nerves from the deep branch of the ulnar. Abductor This, the most superficial of the muscles of the Minimi Digiti. little finger, arises from the pisiform bone, and x 2