57 CERVICAL PLEXUS. 2. Pharyngeal branches, which pass to the phaiyngeal muscles; one, the largest of all, enters the pharynx above the superior constrictor, and terminates in the soft palate, the Eustachian tube, and the tonsils. 3. A meningeal branch, which passes through the foramen lacerum posticum, and is distributed to the dura mater of the occipital fossa. The examination of the two remaining branches of the external carotid, the internal maxillary and temporal, must for the present be postponed. Meanwhile the student should make out the deep cervical plexus and its branches. Cervical This plexus is formed by the anterior branches Plexus of of the four upper cervical nerves. It consists Nerves. 0f a serjes 0f loop-like communications, between these nerves, close to the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrae: each nerve dividing into an ascending and a descending branch, with the exception of the first. The plexus is situated behind the sterno-mastoid m. and internal jugular vein, and lies in front of the scalenus medius and the levator anguli scapulae.- The plexus gives off superficial and deep branches. The super- ficial branches have been already described (p. 20). The deep branches may be divided into an internal and an external series. Internal Series.— 1. The phrenic arises from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, and passes through the thorax to be distributed to the diaphragm. (For further course see p. 59.) 2. The communicantes noni come from the second and third cervical nerves, wind round the internal jugular vein, and join the descendens noni in front of the carotid sheath, forming the 1 ansa hypoglossi.' They supply the depressor muscles of the os hyoides and larynx. 3. Muscular branches to the recti antici, the rectus lateralis, and longus colli muscles. 4. Branches which communicate with the pneumogastric, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves, and one to join the fifth cervical. External Series.—1. One or more branches to the nervus accesso- rius: firstly in the sterno-mastoid, then in the occipital triangle, and lastly beneath the trapezius.