128 ARCH OF THE AORTA. of the right and left brachiocephalic veins, which unite at nearly a right angle opposite the first intercostal space on the right border of the sternum; that is, about the level of the highest point of the arch of the aorta. The vena cava descends vertically, with a slight inclination backwards, to the upper and anterior part of the right auricle. It is from two and a half to three inches long. The lower half of it is covered by the pericardium ; you must, therefore, open this sac to see how the serous layer of the pericardium is reflected over the front and sides of the vein. In respect to its relations, notice that the vein lies in front of the right bronchus and the right pulmonary ves- sels ; and that it is overlapped by the ascending aorta, which lies to its left side. In the upper half of its course, that is, above the pericardium, it is covered on its right side by the pleura; on this side, in contact with it, descends the phrenic nerve. Before it is covered by the pericardium, the vena cava receives the right vena azygos, which opens into it after hooking over the right bronchus. „ The aorta is the great trunk from which all Course and > ° Relations of the tne arteries of the body carrying arterial blood are Arch of the derived. It arises from the upper and back part AoKTA- of the left ventricle of the heart. Its origin is situated behind the pulmonary artery and on the left side of the sternum, about the level of the lower border of the third costal cartilage. It ascends forwards and to the right as high as the lower border of the first intercostal space on the right side; it then curves backwards towards the left side of the body of the second dorsal vertebra, and turning downwards over the left side of the third, completes the arch at the lower border of the fourth vertebra. The direction of the arch, therefore, is from the sternum to the spine, and rather obliquely from right to left. The arch of the aorta presents partial dilatations in certain situations. One of these, called the great sinus of the aorta, is observed on the right side of the arch, about the junction of the ascending with the transverse portion: it is little marked