NERVES OF THE UPPER ARM. 283 As a summary of the distribution of the median nerve, we may say that it supplies the two pronators and jill the flexors of the forearm (except the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulnar half of the flexor profundus digitorum); the muscles of the ball of the thumb, the two radial lumbricales, both sides~bT the thumb, fore and middle fingers, and the radial side of the ring finger. Musculo-cuta- This nerve (often called the external cutaneous) neous Nerve. arises in common with the external root of the median from the external cord of the brachial plexus behind the pectoralis minor, and is situated on the outer side of the axillary artery. It perforates the coraco-brachialis obliquely, and then% /runs down between the biceps and the brachialis anticus. A little above the elbow-joint, between the tendon of the biceps and the J supinator radii longus, the nerve becomes subcutaneous, and, pass- j ing under the median cephalic vein, divides into branches, for the of the integuments of the forearm. The musculo-cutaneous nerve, in the upper part of its course, sends branches to the coraco-brachialis and the short head of the biceps, and, as it descends between the biceps and the brachialis anticus, it supplies both. Consequently, if the nerve were divided in the axilla, the result would be inability to bend the arm.* This nerve also sends small filaments to supply the elbow-joint. This nerve arises from the inner cord of the - brachial plexus, in common with the internal (supply cutaneous and the inner head of the median. It descends along the inner side of the brachial artery, as far as the insertion of the ^"whenever, in the operation of tying the brachial artery, we do not find the nerve in"^ ' its normal position, we may expect to find some irregular distribution of the arteries— \ e.g. a high division of the brachial, or even, which I have often seen, a ' vas aberrans' coming from the upper part of the brachial, and joining either the radial or ulnar ^ ^ arteries. * In some instances the musculo-cutaneous nerve descends on the inner side of the coraco-brachialis without perforating the muscle ; in these cases it often sends a larger branch than usual to the median nerve. The trunk of the musculo-cutaneous nerve may come from the median at any point between the axilla and the middle of the arm. In some subjects the nerve is absent; . all its branches are then supplied ly the median, which is larger than usual. Such anomalies are easily explained by the fact of the two nerves having a common origin.