302 PALM OP THE HAND. ^ Cut vertically through the ligament, and ob- serve that, with the carpal bones, it forms an elliptical canal, with the broad diameter transversely. This canal is lined by a synovial membrane which is reflected loosely over the tendons. Superficial to the ligament, pass the palmaris longus, the ulnar artery and nerve, and the palmar branch of the median nerve; beneath it, pass the superficial and deep flexor tendons of the fingers, the long flexor tendon of the thumb, and the median nerve. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis does not run with the other tendons, but is contained in a distinct sheath, lined by a separate synovial membrane, formed, partly by the annular liga- ment, and, partly, by the groove in the trapezium. Median Nerve In its passage under the annular ligament, the in the Palm. median nerve is enveloped in a fold of synovial membrane, and lies upon the flexor tendons. Here it divides into two nearly equal parts; the external gives branches to the muscles of the ball of the thumb, namely, to the abductor pollicis, the opponens pollicis, and the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis, and then terminates in three digital nerves, two of which are distributed to the thumb, and the third to the outer side of the index finger; the internal gives digital branches which supply the inner side of the forefinger, both sides of the middle finger, and the radial side of the ring finger. The two nerves to the thumb proceed, one on each side of the long flexor tendon, to the last phalanx : the outer one being connected with a terminal filament of the radial. The third digital nerve runs along the radial side of the index finger. The fourth descends towards the cleft between the index and middle fingers, and subdivides into two branches, which supply their opposite sides. The fifth is joined by a filament from one of the ulnar digital nerves, and then subdivides above the cleft between the middle and ring fingers, to supply their opposite sides. Two small branches are given off from the third and fourth digital nerves, to supply the two outer lumbricales; the two inner being supplied by the ulnar. About an inch and a quarter above the clefts between the fingers, each digital nerve subdivides into two branches, between which the