126 BRACHIOCEPHALIC VEINS. behind the thoracic wall. In the rest of the precordial region the heart is covered and separated from the chest wall by inter- vening lung.' Where should we put the stethoscope when we listen to the valves of the heart? For practical purposes it is enough to remember that the mouth of an ordinary-sized stethoscope will cover a portion of them all, if it be placed a little to the left of the mesial line of the sternum opposite the third intercostal space (fig. 21, p. 125). They are all covered by a thin portion of lung; for this reason we ask a patient to stop breathing while we listen to his heart. Before we can display the brachio-cephalic veins, the layer of the deep cervical fascia must be removed which descends over them from the neck and is lost upon the pericardium. Their coats are intimately connected with this fascia; and one of its functions appears to be to keep the veins permanently open for the free return of blood to the heart. Brachio The right and left brachio-cephalic (innomi- cephalic Veins. nate) veins are formed, near the sternal end of the clavicle, by the confluence of the internal jugular and subclavian veins. They differ in their course and relations, and must, there- fore, be described separately. The left brachio-cephalic vein passes obliquely behind the first bone of the sternum, the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, towards the right side, to assist in forming the vena cava superior (fig. 22). It is about two and a half inches in length, and its direc- tion inclines a little downwards. It crosses over the trachea and the origins of the three primary branches of the arch of the aorta. We are reminded of this fact in some cases of aneurysm of these vessels —for what happens ? The vein becomes compressed between the aneurysm and the sternum ; hence the. swelling and venous con- gestion of the parts from which it returns its blood; namely, of the left arm, and the left side of the neck. The upper border of the vein is not far from the upper border of the sternum : in some cases it lies even higher, and we have seen it crossing in front of the trachea fully an inch above the sternum. This occasional