594 DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. cinereum are two round white bodies, the corpora mammillaria. Posterior to these is the locus perforatus posticus, which is bounded behind by the pons, and laterally by the two diverging crura cere- bri, two round cords of white substance, which emerge from the anterior border of the pons. Winding round the outer side of each cms is a soft white band, the optic tract. Examine now in detail the various objects above enumerated, most of which are shown in fig. 139. The lamina cinerea is a thin layer of grey substance, which connects the corpus callosum, and the optic commissure; it passes above this and becomes continuous with the tuber cinereum. If the lamina be torn, which is very easily done, an aperture is made, into the third ventricle. The locus perforatus anticus, placed to the inner side of the commencement of the fissure of Sylvius, is composed partly of grey substance; crossing it is seen a broad white band, the peduncle of the corpus callosum. The tuber cinereum is a prominence of grey matter immediately behind the optic commissure, and from it a conical tube of reddish colour, the infundibulum, descends to the pituitary body. This body, which occupies the sella turcica, is of reddish-brown colour, and consists of two lobes; the anterior, the larger, is concave behind to receive the posterior lobe. It weighs from five to ten grains, and on section resembles in structure the thyroid gland, being composed of reticular tissue with numerous cavities filled with nucleated cells and granular matter. The corpora albicantia or mammillaria are two round white bodies, which are formed by the curl of the anterior crura of the fornix. The locus perforatus posticus* is a depression of grey matter, the surface of which is penetrated by small vessels which supply the optic thalami. Origin of the The cerebral nerves are given off in pairs, named Cerebral the first, second, third, &c, according to the order Nerves. ^ which they appear, beginning from the front. * Pons Tarini.