DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 586 into, their interior presents an undulating line of yellowish-brown colour, called from its zigzag shape the corpus dentatum. This, which is sometimes called the olivary nucleus, forms an interrupted circle, incomplete at its upper and inner side, so that it nearly isolates the white matter within. The small grey mass placed above the corpus dentatum, and similarly composed of grey matter, is called the accessory olivary nucleus. At the lower part of the olivary body, some white fibres may be observed arching round from the anterior median fissure, constituting the arciform fibres of Eolando. The restiform bodies^ situated to the outer side of and behind the olivary bodies, are the continuations upwards of the posterior columns of the spinal cord. As they ascend they diverge and pass into the cerebellum, constituting its inferior peduncles (fig. 141). Owing to this divergence, the grey matter of the medulla is exposed, so that the floor of the fourth ventricle (of which the restiform bodies assist in forming the lateral boundaries) is mainly composed of grey matter. .The restiform bodies consist of white fibres derived from the posterior and lateral columns of the spinal cord; in its interior is some grey matter continuous with that in the posterior part of the cord. The posterior pyramids are the two slender white columns on each side of the posterior median fissure. Ascending, they diverge and thus form the apex of the fourth ventricle. At their point of separation the posterior pyramids enlarge, and form the processus clavatus; after which they diminish in size, and run up with the restiform bodies, which, however, they soon leave and are continued upwards into the cerebrum along the floor of the fourth ventricle. Emerging from tbe anterior median fissure may be noticed some superficial transverse white fibres which cross below the lower extremity of the olivary bodies, and sometimes also the anterior pyramids; these are known as the arciform fibres of Rolando (fig. 140). They are probably connected with white fibres which run horizontally, constituting an imperfect septum between the two halves of the medulla, and may be seen when a