PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES. 245 anticus minor. In order to have a complete view of the two latter, a special dissection should be made, before the head is removed from the first vertebra. This muscle is situated in front of the spine, Longus Colli, . , n m and extends trom the third dorsal to the first cervical vertebra. For convenience of description it is divided into three sets of fibres, of which one extends longitudinally from the body of one vertebra to that of another; the two others extend obliquely between the transverse processes and the bodies of the vertebras. The longitudinal portion of the muscle arises from the bodies of the two or three upper dorsal and the three lower cervical vertebras, and is inserted into the bodies of the second, third and fourth cervical^vertebrae. The superior oblique portion, arising from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae, ascends inwards, and is inserted into the front part or body of the first cervical vertebra. The in- ferior oblique portion proceeds from the bodies of the three upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the transverse pro- cesses of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. The action of this muscle, taken as a whole, must be to bend the cervical region of the spine. Its nerves come from the cervical and brachial plexuses. Eectus Capitis This muscle arises from the anterior tubercles Anticus Major. 0f the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen magnum. Eectus Capitis This muscle arises from the root of the trans- Anticus Minor. verse process of the first cervical vertebra, and is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone, nearer to the foramen magnum than the preceding muscle. The action of the recti muscles is to bend the head forwards. They are supplied with nerves from the anterior division of the sub- occipital.