DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 202 epithelium. The cutis is much thinner than that of the skin of the body, and affords insertion to some muscular fibres of the tongue. The mucous membrane on the under aspect of the tongue is smooth and comparatively thin, and, in the middle line in front, forms a fold—the frcenum lingww—which connects it to the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. Laterally the mucous membrane is reflected from the under part of the tongue to the lower jaw, and forms the floor of the mouth. From the posterior part of the tongue the mucous membrane passes to the soft palate on each side, forming the folds termed the anterior palatine arches, which enclose the palato-glossi; there are also three folds to the epiglottis, termed the glosso-epiglottic: two lateral and one median, the latter enclosing a layer of elastic tissue, called the glosso-epiglottic ligament. This ligament raises the epiglottis when the tongue is protruded from the mouth; hence the rule of never pulling the tongue forwards when passing a tube into the oesophagus, otherwise the tube might pass into the larynx. Papilla of The anterior two-thirds of the tongue are the Tongue. studded with numerous small eminences, called papillw; these, according to their size and form, are distinguished into three kinds—viz. papillw circumvallatw, papillw fungi- forms, and papillw filiformw (fig. 39). The papillw circumvallatw vary in number from eight to twelve, and are arranged at the back of the tongue in two rows, which converge like the branches of the letter V, with the apex backwards, towards the foramen caecum. Each of these papillae is circular, from the ^th to -^th of an inch wide, and slightly broader above than below. Each is surrounded by a circular fossa, which itself is bounded by an elevated ring. The papillae are covered with a thick stratum of scaly epithelium, beneath which are numerous secondary papillae. Buried in the epithelium on the side (but not on the upper surface) of these papillae, numerous flask-shaped bodies, called the taste buds, have been discovered. Their bases rest upon the deeper structures., and their apices open upon the surface. According to recent authorities they are in close con-