MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 235 across from the spinous processes to the angles of the ribs: it is also connected below with the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi and the serratus inferior. This aponeurosis consists of three layers, of Lumbar Fascia. , . . , .. , . which only the posterior layer can now be seen ; the other two being demonstrated in the dissection of the abdominal muscles. The posterior or superficial layer is attached to the crest of the ilium, to the spinous processes of ail the lower dorsal, lumbar, and sacral vertebras; it forms a sheath for the erector spinas, and serves for the attachment of the latissimus dorsi, and \4ne serratus posticus inferior. f The serratus posticus superior must now be reflected from its origin, and turned outwards to expose the following muscle. g This arises from the spines of the five or six upper dorsal and the last cervical vertebras, and from the lower half of the ligamentum nucha?. The fibres ascend and divide into two portions, named, according to their respective I insertions, splenius capitis and splenius colli. a. The splenius capitis is inserted into the mastoid process, and into the outer part of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, beneath the sterno-mastoid. b. The splenius colli is inserted by tendinous slips into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper three cervical vertebras. The splenius is supplied by the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves. The action of the splenius, taken as a whole, is to draw the head and the upper cervical vertebras towards its own side : so far, it co-operates with the opposite sterno-mastoid muscle. When the splenii of opposite sides contract, they extend the cervical portion of the spine, and keep the head erect. The permanent contraction of a single splenius may occasion wry neck. It is necessary to be aware of this, otherwise one might suppose the opposite sterno-mastoid to be affected, considering that the ap- pearance of the distortion is alike in either case. The splenius and serratus posticus inferior are to be detached from their origins. After reflect-