472 PELVIC VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. The mucous membrane of the uterus is more delicate and softer than that of the vagina, with which it is continuous, and is closely united to the subjacent tissue. The greater part of it is lined by a columnar ciliated epithelium, but that which lines the lower part of the cervix is squamous, like that of the vagina. Examined with a lens, the mucous membrane lining the body of the uterus is seen to be covered with minute follicles or tubes {uterine glands) arranged at right angles to its surface. These tubes pass outwards in a more or less spiral manner, some of them appearing branched and dilated at their extremities. They become greatly developed shortly after impregnation, and take an important part in the formation of the membrana decidua. The greater part of the walls of the uterus consists of non- striped or involuntary muscular fibres, which are chiefly aggre- gated at the fundus, less so at the junction of the Fallopian tubes. The texture of these fibres is so close and so interwoven that in the unimpregnated uterus it is useless to attempt to trace them. The fibres are arranged in three layers, an external, a middle, and an internal. The external layer, placed immediately beneath the peritoneum, is thin, and its fibres run transversely round the uterus, some of them being continued in an oblique direction into the round and broad ligaments. A band of longitudinal fibres passes from the anterior surface of the uterus round the fundus to its posterior aspect. The middle layer runs in all directions, and chiefly surrounds the blood-vessels. The internal and thickest layer is composed mainly of concentric circles which surround the orifices of the Fallopian tubes; at the cervix its fibres are ar- ranged transversely, forming a sphincter. Upon the whole their collective disposition is such as to exert equal pressure on all sides, when called into operation. At the same time that they expel the foetus, the muscular fibres perform another very important function: they close the large venous sinuses consequent upon the great increase in the amount of blood during pregnancy. Therefore, little haemorrhage accompanies the expulsion of the placenta, provided it have been