458 PENIS. cavities of the veins. These arteries, called helicine, are ab- sent near the glans, and are best marked at the root of the penis. The blood from the inter-trabecular spaces of the penis returns partly through veins which pass out on the upper surface of the penis into the dorsal vein (which joins the prostatic plexus), partly through the deep veins which leave the inner side of each crus, and the bulb, to join the internal iliac. Corpus The corpus spongiosum is the erectile tissue Spongiosum. which surrounds the urethra as it runs along the penis. It commences in the middle of the perineum, anterior to the triangular ligament, in a bulb-like form—the bulb—and at the end of the penis it expands to form the glans. It receives posteriorly an expansion from the triangular ligament, and pre- sents a median groove, marking its development from two lateral halves. The urethra does not pass through the middle of the spongy body, but runs nearer to its upper surface. The bulb hangs more or less pendulous from the urethra, and is surrounded by the accelerator urinse muscle (p. 420). In old persons it ex- tends lower down than in children, and is, consequently, more exposed to injury in lithotomy. The corpus spongiosum has a much thinner external coat than the corpus cavernosum, but resembles it very much in its internal appearance. The reticular structure, however, is somewhat finer. Its interior is composed of a plexus of minute tortuous veins. This is easily demonstrated by injecting the dorsal vein of the penis with wax. In this way we not only fill the spongy body, but also the glans and the large veins which form the plexus round the corona giandis.* The chief nerves of the penis are the pudic, and its superficial perineal branch. The largest branches run along the dorsum to the surface of the glans: a few only enter the erectile tissue of the organ. This, it has already been mentioned (p. 446), is supplied * In the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons there is a preparation in which the glans penis is injected with quicksilver, clearly showing it to consist of a plexus of veins.—Physiol. Series, No. 2588 A.