MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 236 ing the lumbar fascia from its internal attachment, the erector spinae is exposed. Erector The mass of muscle which occupies the vertebral^\ Spin;e. groove on either side of the spine, is, collectively, called erector spinas, since it counteracts the tendency of the trunk / to fall forwards. Observe that it is thickest and strongest at that 7 part of the spine where it has the greatest weight to support— namely, in the lumbar region; and that its thickness gradually J decreases towards the top of the spine. It arises by tendinous fibres from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, the lower part and back of the sacrum, and,, trie spines of tlie lumbar vertebrae. From this extensive origin the muscular fibres ascend, at first as a single mass. Near the last rib, this mass divides into two ; an outer, called the sacro- lumbalis ; an inner, the longissimus dorsi. These two portions should be followed up the back: and there is no difficulty in doing so, because the division is indicated by a longitudinal groove, in which we observe the cutaneous branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves. Sacro- Tracing the sacro-lumbalis upwards, we find lumbalis. that it terminates in a series of tendons which are inserted into the angles of the six lower ribs. Musculus By turning outwards the sacro-lumbalis, we Accessorius. observe that it is continued upwards under the name of musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem. This arises by a series of tendons from the angles of the seven or eight lower ribs, internal to the preceding, and is inserted into the angles of the five or six upper ribs. Cervicalis This is the cervical continuation of the mus- Ascendens. cuius accessorius. It arises by tendinous slips from the four or'five upper ribs, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the fourth, fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. Longissimus The longissimus dorsi (the inner portion of the -DoRSI- erector spinas) terminates in tendons which are I inserted, internally, into the tubercles * at the root of the transverse # Called 1 anapophyses' Ly Professor Owen.