649 DISSECTION OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. Muscles of The muscles which move the cartilage of the the Pinna. ear as a whole, have been described (p. 2). Other small muscles extend from one part of the cartilage to another; but they are so indistinct that, unless the subject be very muscular, it is difficult to make them out. The following six—four on the front of the auricle and two behind it—are usually described :— (a) The musculus major helicis runs vertically along the front margin of the helix. (b) The musculus minor helicis lies over that part of the helix which is connected with the concha. (c) The musculus tragicus lies vertically over the outer surface of the tragus. (d) The musculus antitragicus passes transversely from the antitragus to the lower part of the antihelix. (e) The musculus transversus is on the cranial aspect of the pinna ; it passes nearly transversely from the back of the concha to the helix. (/) The musculus obliquus extends vertically from the cranial aspect of the concha to the convexity below it. The arteries of the pinna are derived from the posterior auricular, and from the auricular branches of the temporal and occipital. The veins empty themselves into the temporal vein. The nerves are furnished by the auriculo-parotidean branch of the superficial cervical plexus, the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary, the posterior auricular branch of the facial, and the auricular branch of the pneumogastric. Meatus Audi- This passage leads down to the membrana toeius Exteenus. tympani, and conveys the vibrations of sound to the tympanum. It is about an inch and a quarter in length; its external opening is longest in its vertical direction: its termina- tion is broadest in its transverse. The canal inclines at first upwards and forwards, and then curves a little downwards.* Its * To obtain a correct knowledge of the length and dimensions of the meatus, sections should be made through it in different directions, or a cast be taken of it in plaster-of-Paris.