468 PELVIC VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. the narrow part which projects into the vagina. The vagina is yery closely attached round the neck of the uterus : ^bserve that it is attached higher up behind than in front. The mouth of the uterus, os uteri, is at the apex of the neck. Postponing for the present the examination of the interior of the vagina and uterus, let us pass on to the vessels and nerves of these organs. Uterine and ^n addition to the ovarian arteries (which corre- Vaginal spond to the spermatic arteries in the male) given Arteries. 0ff from the abdominal aorta (p. 385), each inter- nal iliac artery furnishes a branch to the uterus and another to the vagina. The uterine artery proceeds from the anterior division of the internal iliac, towards the neck of the uterus, between the layers of the broad ligament, and then ascends tortuously by the side of the uterus, giving off numerous branches to it, which anastomose freely with each other, and with a small branch from the ovarian artery. The fundus of the uterus is mainly supplied with branches from the ovarian arteries. The vaginal artery ramifies along the side of the vagina, and distributes branches to the lower part of the bladder and the rectum. The veins, corresponding with the arteries, form the uterine and vaginal plexuses, which empty themselves into the internal iliac. Nerves of the The nerves of the uterus are derived from the Uterus. third and fourth sacral nerves, from the hypo- gastric and ovarian plexuses (p. 408). They accompany the blood- vessels in the broad ligament to the neck of the uterus, and ascend with them along its sides. Some small filaments continue with the vessels, and form around them plexuses, upon which minute ganglia are found.* But most of the nerves soon leave the vessels, and, subdividing, sink into the substance of the uterus, chiefly about its neck and the lower part of its body. A branch may be traced passing up to the fundus of the uterus, and another to the Fallopian tube. * Beck, 'Philosophical Transactions ' for 1846.