619 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED. upon each other. It is attached firmly above to the margin of the foramen magnum, and may be traced downwards as a sheath as far as the second bone of the sacrum, from which it is prolonged as a cord to the coccyx, where it becomes continuous with the peri- osteum. It forms a complete canal or bag, which surrounds loosely the spinal cord, and sends off a prolongation over the trunk of each spinal nerve. These prolongations accompany the nerves only as far as the intervertebral foramina, and are then blended with the periosteum. Cut through the nerves which proceed from the spinal cord on each side, and remove the cord with the dura mater entire. Then slit up the dura mater along the middle line, to examine the arachnoid membrane. Arachnoid The arachnoid membrane of the cord is a con- Membbane. tinuation from that of the brain, and, like it, consists of a visceral layer, which surrounds the cord, and a parietal, which lines the inner surface of the dura mater. The visceral layer is not in immediate contact with the pia mater beneath it, but is separated from it by a transparent watery fluid contained in the meshes of the subarachnoid tissue (p. 579.) Cerebro- This cerebro-spinal fluid cannot be demon- Spinal Fluid. strated unless the cord be examined very soon after death, and before the removal of the brain.* The nerves proceed- * The existence and situation of the cerebro-spinal fluid were first discovered by Haller, ' Element. Phys.' vol. iv. p. 87, and subsequently more minutely investigated by Magendie, 'Eecherches Phys. et Cliniques sur le Liquide Cephalo-rachidien,' in 4to. avec atlas: Paris, 1842. This physiologist has shown that if, during life, the arches of the vertebrae are removed in a horse, dog, or other animal, and the dura mater of the cord punctured, there issue jets of a fluid which had previously made the sheath tense. The fluid communicates, through the fourth ventricle, with that in the general ventricular cavity. The collective amount of the fluid varies from 1 to 2 oz. or more. It can be made to flow from the brain into the cord, or vice versd. This is proved by experiments on animals, and by that pathological condition of the spine in children termed 'spina bifida.' In the latter instance, coughing and crying make the tumour swell; showing that fluid is forced into it from the ventricles. Again, if pressure be made on the tumour with one hand, and the fontanelles of the child examined with the other, in proportion as the spinal swelling decreases so is the brain felt to swell up, accompanied by symptoms resulting from pressure on the