571 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. lie within those of the internal which are attached further from the spine. The cartilages are connected in front by a thin transverse ligament; and their circumference is attached round the head of the tibia by fibrous tissue, called the coronary ligament (seen in fig. 132), yet not so closely as to restrict their range of motion.* Action of the Their respective points of attachment are such Ligaments. that, when the joint is extended, all the ligaments are tight, to prevent extension beyond the perpendicular; thus muscular force is economised. But when the joint is bent the ligaments are relaxed, enough to admit a slight rotatory movement of the tibia. This movement is more free outwards than inwards ; and is effected, not by rotation of the tibia on its own axis, but by rotation of the outer head round the inner. FlG- 133- Eotation outwards is produced by the biceps ; rotation inwards by the popliteus and semimembranosus. 1 The crucial ligaments, though placed inside the joint, answer the same purposes as the coronoid process and the olecranon of the elbow. They make the tibia slide properly forwards and backwards. In extension, the anterior crucial ligament is tight; in flexion, the posterior ligament becomes tight and consequently limits flexion, crucial They also conjointly limit excessive rotation. They not ligaments only prevent dislocation in front or behind, but they OF THB prevent lateral displacement, since they cross each other like braces, as shown in fig. 133. Superior There is a joint between the tibia and fibula at Tibio-fibular their upper and lower extremities. The upper JoiNT- joint is secured by an anterior and a 'posterior tibio-fibular ligament; their fibres are very strong and run in an oblique direction downwards and outwards, passing from the external tuberosity of the tibia to the head of the fibula. The * Of the two cartilages the external has the greater freedom of motion, because in rotation of the knee the outer side of the tibia moves more than the inner. Conse- quently, it is not in any way connected to the external lateral ligament; so far from this, it is separated from it by the tendon of the popliteus, of which the play is facili- tated by a bursa communicating freely with the joint. For this reason the external cartilage is more liable to dislocation than the internal.