213 NASAL NERVE. The superior rectus should now be reflected: in doing so, ob- serve the branch from the upper division of the third nerve, which supplies it and the levator palpebrse. After the removal of a quantity of fat, we expose the following objects:—1, the optic nerve; 2, the nasal nerve, the ophthalmic artery anoTvein, all of which cross obliquely over the optic nerve from without inwards; 3, the inferior division of the third nerve; 4, deeper, towards the back of the orbit, between the optic nerve and the external rectus, is situated the ophthalmic or lenticular ganglion with its ciliary branches; 5, the sixth nerve entering the ocular aspect of the rectus externus. This is one of the three divisions of the oph- thalmic branch of the fifth pair (fig. 40, p. 207). It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure between the two origins of the external rectus, and then crosses obliquely over the optic nerve, beneath the levator palpebrse and the superior rectus, towards the inner wall of the orbit. After giving off the infra- trochlear branch, the nerve passes out of the orbit between the superior oblique and internal rectus, through the anterior ethmoidal foramen, into the cranium, where it lies beneath the dura mater, upon the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. It soon leaves the cranium through the nasal slit near the crista galli, and enters the nose. Here it sends filaments to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the septum, and superior spongy bone; but the main con- tinuation of the nerve runs behind the nasal bone, becomes super- ficial between the bone and the cartilage, and, under the name of naso-lobular, is distributed to the skin of the ala and tip of the nose (p. 74). The nasal nerve gives off the following branches in the orbit:— a. One slender filament to the lenticular ganglion (forming its upper or long root) is given off from the nasal nerve as it passes between the heads of the external rectus. It is about half an inch long, and enters the posterior-superior angle of the ganglion. b. Two or three long ciliary nerves. They run along the inner side of the optic nerve to the back of the globe of the eye. They are joined