129 ARCH OF THE AORTA. in the infant, but increases with age. Three other dilatations (the sinuses of Valsalva), one corresponding to each of the valves at the commencement of the aorta, will be examined hereafter. For convenience of description, the arch of the aorta is divided into an ascending, a transverse, and a descending portion. Ascending portion.—To see this portion of the aorta, the pericardium must be opened. You then observe that this part of the artery is enclosed all round by the serous layer of the peri- cardium, except where it is in contact with the pulmonary artery. It is about two inches in length, and ascends with a slight curve to the upper border of the second costal cartilage of the right side, where it lies almost in contact with the sternum. Its commence- ment is covered by the pulmonary artery, and overlapped by the appendix of the right auricle. On its right side, but on a posterior plane, descends the superior vena cava; on its left is the division of the pulmonary artery ; behind it, are part of the right auricle, the right pulmonary artery and vein and the right bron- chus. This part of the aorta gives off the right and left coronary arteries for the supply of the heart. Transverse portion.—This portion of the aorta arches from the front to the back of the thorax, and extends from the upper border of the second right costal cartilage to the left side of the second dorsal vertebra. In front, it is covered by the left pleura, and is crossed by the left phrenic, the left pneumogastric, the superficial cardiac nerves, and the pericardiac veins. Near its summit runs the left brachio-cephalic vein. Within its concavity are the left bronchus, the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the remains of the ductus arte- riosus. The artery rests upon the trachea (a little above its bifur- cation), the deep cardiac plexus, the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. From the transverse part of the arch arise the arteria innominata, the left carotid, and the left subclavian arteries. Descending portion.—This part of the arch lies upon, the left side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra, and at the lower border of the body of the fourth dorsal it takes the name of the K