DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 121 action is to depress the costal cartilages, and thus, on emergency, it acts in expiration. Its_nerves come from the intercostal nerves, its arteries from the internal mammary. Internal Mam- This artery is given off from the subclavian in mary Artery. the first part of its course. On entering the chest it lies between the cartilage of the first rib and the pleura and is crossed by the phrenic nerve. It then descends perpendicularly, about half an inch from the sternum, between the cartilages of the ribs and the triangularis sterni, as far as the seventh costal cartilage, where it divides into two branches, the musculo- phrenic and the superior epigastric. The latter branch then enters the wall of the abdomen behind the rectus abdominis, and finally inosculates with the epigastric (a branch of the external iliac). The branches of the internal mammary are as follows: — a. Arteria comes nervi phrenici.—A very slender artery, which accompanies the phrenic nerve to the diaphragm, and anastomoses with the phrenic branches of the abdominal aorta. h. Mediastinal and thymic.—These branches supply the cellular tissue of the anterior mediastinum, the pericardium, and the triangularis sterni. The thymic are only visible in childhood, and disappear with the thymus gland. c. Anterior intercqstalr^-Two for each intercostal space are distributed to the five or six upper intercostal spaces. They lie at first between the pleura and the internal intercostal muscle, and subsequently between the two intercostals. They inosculate with the intercostal arteries from the aorta. d. Perforating arteries, which pass through the same number of intercostal spaces as the preceding branches, and supply the pectoral muscle and skin of the chest. In the female they are of large size, to supply the mammary gland. e. The mv.sculo-jmrenic branch runs outwards behind the cartilages of the false ribs, and terminates near the last intercostal space. It sup- plies small branches to the diaphragm, to the sixth, seventh, and sometimes the eighth intercostal spaces. * Two venae comites accompany the artery, and form a single