132 PHRENIC NERVES. artery and the oesophagus is the thoracic duct. Like the other primary branches of the arch, it is crossed by the left brachio- cephalic vein. It is covered in front by the left lung, and it rests upon the longus colli. Anterior to the artery also are the pneumo- gastric, the phrenic, and the cardiac nerves. The upper part of its course, where the vessel passes in front of the apex of the lung, has been described with the anatomy of the neck (p. 62). Course of the The phrenic nerve comes from the third, fourth Phrenic Nerves and fifth cervical nerves. It descends over the through the scalenus anticus, and enters the chest between the subclavian vein and artery. It then crosses over the internal mammary artery and runs in front of the root of the lung between the pleura and the pericardium to the diaphragm (fig. 23), to the under surface of which it is distributed.* The phrenic nerve is joined on the scalenus anticus by an offset from the fifth cervical branch of the brachial plexus; by another filament from the sympathetic nerve ; and very frequently by a small loop from the nerve to the subclavius muscle; occa- sionally also by a branch from the descendens noni. In what respects do the phrenic nerves differ from each other in their course ?—The right phrenic runs along the outer side of the brachio-cephalic vein and superior vena cava ; the left crosses in front of the transverse part of the arch of the aorta ; besides which, the left is rather longer than the right, since it curves over the apex of the heart. Before the phrenic nerve divides into branches to supply the diaphragm, it sends off minute filaments to the pleura and the pericardium. Having studied these anatomical details, consider for a moment what symptoms are likely to be produced by an aneurysm of the arch of the aorta, or any of the primary branches. A glance at the important parts in the neighbourhood helps to answer the question. The effects will vary according to the part of the artery which * In the Museum of the College of Surgeons there is a dissection showing that the right phrenic nerve enters the diaphragm close to the right side of the vena cava inferior, while the left phrenic enters the left muscle of the diaphragm.