POPLITEAL REGION. 544 the leg, is joined by the communicans peronei, and then, running down behind the outer malleolus in company with the short saphena vein, is distributed to the outer side of the little toe. The remainder of the nerve, as posterior tibial, supplies all the flexor muscles on the back of the leg and the sole of the foot. Popliteal By clearing out all the fat, we observe that the Vessels. popliteal vessels enter the ham through an aperture in the adductor magnus, and descend close to the back part of the femur, and the back of the knee-joint. At first they are partially overlapped (in muscular subjects) by the semimembranosus; indeed the outer border of this muscle is a good guide to the artery in the operation of tying it. The popliteal artery lies upon the triangular surface at the back of the lower third of the femur; then, upon the ligamentum posticum Winslowii; and, lastly, upon the popliteus, at the lower border of which it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial. Arising at right angles from the popliteal artery are the two superior articular arteries ; lower down are two inferior articular arteries ; also the sural, supplying the muscles of the calf, and the azygos artery ; close to the vessel is the articular branch of the obturator nerve which supplies the knee-joint. The popliteal vein lies superficial to the artery, and rather to its outer side. It receives the short saphena vein. Its coats are remarkably thick, and on transverse section resemble those of an artery of a similar size. Lymphatic Two or more lymphatic glands are situated one Glands. on each side of the artery. They deserve attention, because, when enlarged, their close proximity to the artery may com- municate a pulsation which might be mistaken for an aneurysm. DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE THIGH. The incision should be continued along the remainder of the back of the thigh, and the skin reflected. Cutaneous The s^m a^ ^ne Dac^ °f ^ne thigh is supplied by Nebves and the lesser ischiatic nerve, which runs down beneath Veins- the fascia, as low as the upper third of the calf,