314 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF THE BACK. the clavicle, and divides into filaments, which, reinforced by fila- ments from the third and fourth cervical nerves, are distributed to the muscle as far as its lower border. Spinal Acces- This nerve is one of the three divisions of the sort Nerve. eighth pair of cerebral nerves. It arises from the lateral part of the cervical portion of the spinal cord by several roots, some of which are as low as the sixth cervical vertebra. Formed by the union of these roots, the nerve enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and leaves it again through the foramen jugulare. It then runs behind the internal jugular vein, traverses obliquely the upper third of the sterno-mastoid, and crosses the posterior triangle of the neck to the trapezius, which it supplies (p. 19). Beneath the trapezius we have to examine the second layer, consisting of three muscles connected with the scapula ; namely, the levator anguli scapula?, the rhomboideus major and minor. The scapula should be adjusted so as to stretch their fibres. Levator An- This muscle is situated at the side of the neck. guli Scapula. It arises by four tendons from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrae. The muscular slips to which the tendons give rise form a single muscle, which descends along the side of the neck, and is inserted into the posterior border of the scapula between its spine and superior angle. Its action is to raise the posterior angle of the scapula; as, for instance, in shrugging the shoulders. Its nerve comes from the fifth cervical. Khomboideus These flat muscles extend from the spinous pro- Major and cesses of the vertebrae to the base of the scapula. Minor. They often appear like a single muscle. The rhomboideus minor, the higher of the two, arises by a thin apo~ neurosis from the spinous processes of the last cervical and the first dorsal vertebra, and is inserted into the base of the scapula oppo- site its spine. The rhomboideus major arises by tendinous fibres from the spinous processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted by fleshy fibres into the base of the scapula between its spine and inferior angle ; the larger number of the fibres being