628 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED. Posterior These are the continuations upwards of the Pyramids. posterior median columns of the cord; and, like the restiform body, each divides into two fasciculi, one of which ascends and helps to form the inferior crus of the cerebellum, the other runs up with the fasciculus teres. Horizontal The horizontal fibres in the medulla oblongata Fibres. an(j the pons were first accurately described by Stilling and subsequently by Kolando. Some of them form a septum, and divide the medulla oblongata and pons into sym- metrical halves ; others, arising apparently from the septum, pass outwards in an arched manner through the lateral halves of the medulla; so that when seen in a transverse section by transmitted light, they describe a series of curves, with the convexity forwards, throughout the entire thickness of the medulla. Some of these transverse fibres appear on the surface over the pyramid and the olive ; these have received the name of arciform fibres of Rolando (p. 584.) Stilling'* and Kolliker,f who have studied the subject, are of opinion that they originate in the restiform bodies, and thence arch forwards—some on the surface, others through the substance of the medulla, and that they eventually join the fibres of the septum. Internal The pons consists of transverse and longitudinal Structure of the white fibres, with a considerable quantity of grey Pons Varolii. matter in its interior. The superficial layer of fibres is obviously transverse, and connects the two hemispheres of the cerebellum. After removing the first layer, we expose the longitudinal fibres of the pyramids in their course to the crura cerebri; these longitudinal fibres, however, are intersected by the deep transverse fibres of the pons, which, like the superficial, are continued into the cerebellum. The deepest layer of the pons consists entirely of longitudinal fibres, derived partly from the lateral columns, partly from the restiform bodies of the medulla. Crura These are composed of longitudinal fibres, de- Cerebri. rived from the pyramids, from part of the lateral * ' LTeber die Medulla Oblongata,' Erlangen, 1843. f 'Mikroskopische Anatomie,' p. 454.