FLEXOR PROFUNDUS DIGITORUM. 205 except the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulnar half of the flexor pro- fundus, which are supplied by the ulnar nerve. The anterior interosseous nerve, a branch of the median, runs with the anterior interosseous artery, close to the interosseous membrane, between the flexor longus pollicis and flexor profundus digitorum : it supplies both these muscles and the pronator quadratus. Before the median nerve passes beneath the annular ligament, it sends off its cutaneous palmar branch, which passes over the ligament, and divides into small filaments to supply the skin of the palm and ball of the thumb, communicating with the cutaneous palmar branches of the ulnar, the external cutaneous, and the radial. Now reflect the superficial layer of muscles, to Dissection see those more deeply seated. Preserve the prin- cipal vessels and nerves. The deep-seated muscles are the flexor digitorum profundus, and the flexor longus pollicis; beneath both, near the wrist, lies the pronator quadratus. Close to the interosseous membrane run the anterior interosseous artery and nerve. Flexor Pro- This *s the thickest muscle of the forearm. It fundus digito- arises from the upper two-thirds of the anterior EUM- surface of the ulna, from' the same extent of its internal surface, from the aponeurosis attached to the posterior edge of the ulna, and from the inner two-thirds of the interosseous membrane. About the middle of the forearm it divides into four muscular slips, which terminate in flat tendons. These tendons lie upon the same plane, and pass beneath the annular ligament, under those of the superficial flexor, into the palm. On the first phalanx of the fingers, the tendons of the deep flexor perforate those of the superficial, and are inserted into the base of the third or ungual phalanx. It derives its nerves from the interosseous branch of the median and the ulnar. Flexor Longus This muscle is situated on the front surface of Pollicis. the radius, outside the preceding. It arises from the front surface of the radius, between the tubercle and the pro- nator quadratus, and from the interosseous membrane.* Its tendon * Sometimes by a slip from the coronoid process.