MUSCLES IN THE ORBIT. 211 Obliqutjs This muscle arises from the inner side of the Superior. foramen opticum. It runs along the inner side of the orbit, and terminates in a round tendon, which passes through a cartilaginous pulley—trochlea—attached to the anterior and inner part of the roof of the orbit. From this pulley the tendon is reflected outwards and backwards to the globe of the eye. It gradually expands, and is inserted into the outer and back part of the sclerotic coat, between the external and superior recti. The pulley is lined by a synovial membrane, which is continued upon the tendon. The action of this muscle will be considered with that of the inferior oblique (p. 217). It is supplied by the fourth nerve, which enters the back part of its upper surface. The frontal nerve and levator palpebrse should now be cut through the middle and reflected, to expose the superior rectus muscle. Four Recti These four muscles have a tendinous origin Muscles. round the foramen opticum, so that, collectively, they embrace the optic nerve. They diverge from each other, one above, one below, and one on each side of the optic nerve; and are named, accordingly, rectus superior, inferior, externus, and internus. Their broad thin tendons are inserted into the sclerotic coat of the eye, about a quarter of an inch from the margin of the cornea (fig. 42). The external rectus not only arises from the circumference of the optic foramen, but has another origin from the lower margin of the sphenoid fissure. Between these origins pass the third nerve, the nasal branch of the fifth, the sixth, and the ophthalmic vein. The recti muscles enable us to direct the eye towards different points; hence the names given to them by Albinus—attollens, depressor, adductor, and abductor oculi. It is obvious that by the single action of one, or the combined action of two, the eye can be turned towards any direction. The rectus superior is supplied by the upper division of the third nerve; the rectus internus, the rectus inferior and obliquus inferior, by the lower division. The rectus externus is supplied by the sixth. p 2