186 TONSILS. EUSTACHIAN TUBE. Both these muscles are supplied by the descending palatine branches of the spheno-palatine ganglion. The tonsils are situated at the entrance of the fauces, between the arches of the soft palate. Their use is to lubricate the fauces during the passage of the food. On their inner surface are visible from twelve to fifteen orifices leading into crypts which make the tonsil appear like the shell of an almond. Hence, as well as from their oval figure, they are called the amygdalw. These openings lead into small follicles in the substance of the tonsil, lined by mucous membrane. Their walls are thick, and formed by a layer of closed cells situated in the submucous tissue. The fluid secreted by these cells is viscid and transparent, in the healthy state: but it is apt to become white and opaque in in- flammatory affections of the tonsils, and occasionally accumulates in these superficial depressions, giving rise to the deceptive appear- ance of a small ulcer, or even a slough in the part. The tonsil lies close to the inner side of the internal carotid artery. It is only separated from this vessel by the superior constrictor and the aponeurosis of the pharynx. Therefore, in removing a portion of the tonsil, or in opening an abscess near it, the point of the instrument should never be directed outwards, but inwards towards the mesial line.* The tonsil is supplied with blood by the tonsillar and palatine branches of the facial, and by the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary. Nerves are furnished to it from the glosso-pharyngeal. Eustachian This canal conveys air from the pharynx to the TuBE- tympanum of the ear. Its orifice is situated opposite the back part of the inferior spongy bone. The direc- tion of the tube from the pharynx is upwards, backwards, and outwards; it is an inch and a half long. The narrowest part is about the middle, and here its walls are in contact. Near the tympanum its walls are osseous, but towards the pharynx they are * Cases are related by Portal and Beclard, in which the carotid artery was punctured in opening an abscess in the tonsil. The result was immediately fatal haemorrhage,