STRUCTURE OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. 492 cylindrical cells which cover the villi are believed to be the agents in the absorption of the chyle, and to possess the power of selection. Intestinal There are four kinds of glands * in the small in- Glands. testine, called the glands of Lieberkiihn, Brunner, Peyer, and the solitary glands. The first and last are distributed over the whole tract of the intestinal mucous membrane; the other two over particular parts. The glands of Lieberkiihn^ the most numerous of all, are minute tubes with blind ends, very thickly distributed over the small and the large intestines. Under the microscope, their orifices are seen between the villi, like so many minute dots. These vary in depth from to ^ of a line, and about the ^ of a line in diameter, and are lined with columnar epithelium. The glands of Brunner $ are found only in the duodenum. They are just visible to the naked eye, and may be seen by re- moving the muscular coat. Their structure exactly resembles the round compound glands of the mucous membrane of the mouth. The glands of Peyer ยง (glandular agminatse) abound most in the ileum, and are seen most distinctly in children. They are arranged in groups, from twenty to forty in number, on that part of the intestine most distant from the attachment of the mesen- tery. These groups are from half an inch to three inches long, of an oval form, and increase in size and number towards the lower part of the ileum. If a group be examined by dissecting away the muscular coat, you find that it is composed of a number of small oval vesicles, like Florence flasks, embedded in the sub-mucous tissue. They are composed of masses of lymphoid tissue, of about three-fourths of a line in diameter, and contain an opaque greyish fluid. No excretory ducts have been traced from these vesicles, but they are supposed to discharge their contents by rupture of * A satisfactory examination of the intestinal glands can be made only in speci- mens quite recent, taken from young persons who have died suddenly, or from a rapidly fatal disease. f J. N. Lieberkiihn, ' Diss, de fabric, et actione rillorum intestin. ten.,' 1782. I J. C. Brunner, ' Gland, duoden. seu pancreas secundarium,' 1715. ยง Peyer, ' De glandulis intestinorum,' 1682. These glands were first described by Nehemiah Grew, in 1681.