148 INTERCOSTAL VESSELS. crus of the diaphragm to the coeliac plexus, and occasionally to the renal plexus.* c. The smallest splanchnic nerve (when present) comes from the twelfth ganglion, passes through the crus of the diaphragm, and terminates in the renal and coeliac plexuses. (This is not repre- sented in the diagram.) Intercostal The intercostal muscles occupy the intervals Muscles. between the ribs. In each interval there are two layers of muscles which cross like the letter X. The external intercostals run obliquely from behind forwards, like the ex- ternal oblique muscle of the abdomen. The internal run from before backwards, like the internal oblique. Observe that a few fibres of the inner layer pass over one or even two ribs, chiefly near the angles, and more especially of the lower ribs, and terminate upon a rib lower down.f Neither of these layers of intercostal muscles extends all the way between the sternum and the spine: the outer layer, begin- ning at the spine, ceases at the cartilages of the ribs; the inner, commencing at the sternum, ceases at the angles of the ribs. The intercostal muscles present an intermixture of tendinous and fleshy fibres; and they are covered inside and outside the chest by a glistening fascia, to give gi eater protection to the intercostal spaces. The external intercostal muscles elevate the ribs, and are therefore muscles of inspiration. The internal intercostal muscles depress the ribs, and are therefore muscles of expiration. Intercostal There are twelve intercostal arteries on each side, Arteries. which lie between the internal and external inter- costal muscles, the last excepted. The two upper arteries are sup- plied by the intercostal branch of the subclavian; the remaining ten are furnished by the aorta: and since this vessel lies rather on the left side of the spine, the right intercostal arteries are longer than the left. The upper intercostal arteries from the aorta ascend * In a few instances we have traced a minute filament from one of the ganglia into the body of a vertebra. According to Cruveilhier each vertebra receives one. f These irregular muscular bundles are called the subcostal muscles.