DIAPHRAGM. 396 surfaces of the cartilages of the six lower ribs by as many digitations, which correspond with those of the transversalis; 3. From two thin tendinous arches, called, respectively, the liga- rnenta arcuata, externum and internum (the external arch extends from the last rib to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, and arches over the quadratus lumborum; the internal passes from the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the body of the same vertebra, and arches over the psoas) ; and 4. From the front of the bodies of the lumbar vertebras by two elongated bundles, called the crura of the diaphragm. Both crura have tendinous origins; the right cms is, however, a little longer than the left; the former arises from first, second, and third lumbar vertebras and their intervening cartilages, the left does not descend so low by one vertebra. The inner fibres of each cms decussate ; those of the right being the more anterior. In their decussation the fibres separate the aortic from the oeso- phageal openings. Between the two crura the aorta enters the abdomen. From these various origins the fibres ascend, at first nearly vertically, and then all arch inwards, and converge to be inserted into the central tendon. The central tendon is nearly the highest part of the diaphragm. It presents a white glistening surface, owing to the crossing of its tendinous fibres; and its shape may be compared to that of a trefoil leaf. The chief point of interest about the tendon is that, in consequence of its connections with the pericardium, below which it lies (p. 134), it is always maintained nearly on the same level; so that it helps to support the heart, and serves as a fixed point for the insertion of the muscular fibres of the diaphragm. Openings in There are three large openings in the diaphragm the Diaphragm. for fae transmission of the aorta, the oesophagus, and the inferior vena cava, respectively. The aortic opening lies between the crura in front of the spine; it transmits, also, the vena azygos and the thoracic duct, both of which lie rather to the right side of the aorta. Trace the crura upwards, and observe that the inner fibres of each cross each other in front of the aorta.