35 DESCENDENS NONI NERVE. over advance slightly to meet the subclavian veins, so that they lie on a plane a little anterior to their accompanying arteries. A little before their termination the internal jugulars have a double valve. Dbscendens The dbscendens noni (p. 30), a branch of the Noni and Com- hypoglossal, runs down obliquely over the sheath mtjnicantes Noni 0f carotid to supply the depressor muscles of the os hyoides. Trace the nerve upwards to see that it leaves the hypoglossal where this nerve curves round the occipital artery. For a short distance the descendens noni lies within the carotid sheath; but, about the level of the os hyoides, it comes through the sheath, and crosses obliquely over the carotid, from the outer to the inner side. The descendens noni is reinforced by one or more nerves termed communicantes noni, derived from the second and third cervical nerves. These com- municating branches descend on the outer side of the internal jugular vein, and form generally two loops in front of the carotid sheath, constituting a triangular plexus called the 'ansa hypo- glossV From these loops the nerves proceed to the anterior and posterior bellies of the omo-hyoid, to the sterno-hyoid. and sterno- thyroid muscles. A small branch may sometimes be traced pro- ceeding from the descendens noni into the chest to join the cardiac and phrenic nerves. In some subjects the descendens noni seems to be wanting, in which case it will probably be concealed within the carotid sheath : when this happens the reinforcing loops from the cervical nerves will be found behind the internal jugular vein * ~ The thyroid body should now be examined. Dissection. . To expose it, reflect the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles from their insertions, so that they can be replaced if necessary. Next observe the lymphatic glands of the neck, and * By many anatomists the descendens noni is regarded as the combination of filaments from the hypoglossal and pneumogastric nerves; by some, it is looked upon as a branch of the pneumogastric; and lastly, which is most probable, it is considered by others to be mainly derived from a branch which is sent to the hypoglossal from the first and second cervical nerves. R 2