368 PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. inguinal hernia. The description applies equally to the female, provided the round ligament be substituted for the spermatic cord. The inguinal canal is proportionately smaller, and there is no cremaster. Practical The testis originally formed in the loins passes, application. about the eighth month of foetal life, from the abdomen into the scrotum, through an oblique canal in the wall of the abdomen, called the Inguinal canal. A portion of peri- toneum is pouched out before the descending testis, and consti- tutes the tunica vaginalis testis. The blood-vessels, nerves, and vas deferens pass down with the testis, and constitute the sper- matic cord. The inguinal canal runs obliquely through the abdo- minal wall, that it may the better resist the protrusion of intestine. The wall of the abdomen, as previously stated, is composed of various strata, and the testis and cord in their passage through each stratum derive from each a covering, similar in structure to the stratum itself. Of these strata there are three: the first, proceeding from within outwards,, is the fascial stratum derived from the fascia transversalis; the second is the muscular stratum (cremasteric) from the internal oblique and transversalis muscles; the third is the aponeurotic stratum from the external oblique. The passage of the testis through the lower part of the ab- dominal parietes (inguinal canal) occasions, at this part of the belly, a natural weakness which, associated with other conditions, favours the protrusion of intestine in this situation. A protrusion of intestine through any part of the inguinal canal is called an inguinal hernia. Oblique The most common form of inguinal hernia is Inc4uinal Hernia, that in which a portion of intestine protrudes first through the internal ring, then, traversing the inguinal canal, emerges through the external ring, and thence may descend into the scrotum. This variety is called an oblique inguinal hernia* If the intestine stops within the inguinal canal, it * A hernia is sometimes called external or internal, according to the relation of the protrusion to the deep epigastric artery: thus, an oblique inguinal hernia which first protrudes through the inner ring is called an external hernia, and vice versa.