DISSECTION OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 650 bony cases ; but in the rest of their extent the diameter of the membranous canal is not more than one-third that of the bony. At the ampullated extremity the sac is connected on its outer aspect by blood-vessels and nerves to the periosteum, forming, on section, a septum, called the septum transversum. The membranous labyrinth is protected, inside and out, by fluid. The fluid in the interior is termed the endolymph, and the thin layer between it and the bone, the perilymph or liquor Cotunnii; thus the delicate nervous membrane is placed between two layers of fluid. Distribution The auditory nerve or portio mollis of the of the Auditory seventh pair, passes down the meatus auditorius Neevb- internus, and at the bottom of it, divides into an anterior and posterior branch, which, after breaking up into numerous fasciculi, are distributed to the cochlea and to the vestibule. The vestibular nerve divides into five branches, which pro- ceed to the utricle, the saccule, and the three ampullae of the semicircular canals, respectively : those for the utricle, and the superior and external semicircular canals enter the vestibule along the crista vestibuli; that for the saccule enters through the fovea hemispherica, and that for the posterior semicircular canal is con- tinued along a bony canal to its termination. The nerves to the semicircular canals enter the ampullae by a forked swelling which corresponds to each septum transversum. The membranous semicircular canals consist of three layers, an outer or fibrous layer, which is connected with the periosteum by blood-vessels, and contains irregular pigment-cells ; a middle or tunica propria, clear and structureless; and an inner or epithelial layer, which lines the inner space of the tunica propria. At the ampullae the epithelial layer is composed of the columnar variety, upon which are arranged cells of a spindle shape, having delicate ciliated processes {auditory hairs) projecting into the endolymph. It has been stated that in the bony cochlea there is a partial septum, dividing the spiral tube into two incomplete scalae. In the recent condition, however, the osseous lamina spiralis is continued u u 2