510 Scarpa's triangle. The fascia must now be removed from the front ~T) T S S "P P TIO N of the thigh, without disturbing the subjacent muscles from their relative positions. The mass of muscles, on the inner side of the thigh, consists of the adductors ; that in the middle, of the extensors : the long thin muscle crossing obliquely in front from the outer to the inner side, is the sartorius. In the middle are seen the femoral vessels, and the anterior crural nerve emerging beneath the crural arch. This muscle arises from the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and from the ridge below to the extent of an inch. It passes obliquely like a strap over the front of the thigh towards the inner side; and then descends almost perpendicularly on the inner side of the thigh as far as the knee, where it terminates in a flat tendon which expands, and is inserted into the inner and front part of the tibia just below its tubercle. The tendon appears all the wider on account of its broad connection with the fascia of the leg, which extends as low as the internal malleolus. The broad insertion of this muscle lies anterior to and covers the tendinous insertions of the gracilis and semi-tendinosus, and between them is a bursa. A large bursa* is interposed between the tendon and the internal lateral liga- ment. The chief action of the muscle is to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh.f It crosses one leg over the other, as tailors sit when at work. Its nerve comes from the middle cutaneous branch of the anterior crural. Scarpa's In consequence of the oblique direction of the Triangle. upper third of the sartorius, a triangle is formed, which has this muscle and the adductor longus for its two sides, and the crural arch for its base : the triangle is called Scarpa's .J all these cases, however, the artery passed close by the bone, that is behind the sac, so that it -would not have been injured in the operation for relief of strangulation. * In persons, females especially, who are in the habit of riding, this bursa some- times becomes enlarged. f Hence the name given to it by Spigelius (De corporis hum. fabric), ' Quern ego sartorium musculum vocare soleo, quod sartores eo maxime utuntur, dum crus cruri inter consuendum imponunt.' \ So called in compliment to the Italian anatomist who first tied the femoral in it for popliteal aneurysm.