DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 023 other. Each crescent is placed in the corresponding half of the cord, and is connected with its fellow across the centre by a portion called the posterior or grey commissure.* The posterior horns are long and narrow, and extend to the posterior lateral fissure, where they are connected with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The anterior horns are short and thick, and come forwards towards the attachment of the anterior roots of the nerves, but do not reach the surface. Separating the grey commissure from the anterior median fissure is the anterior or white com- missure. On making transverse sections through different regions of the spinal cord the grey substance is seen to vary in shape: in the cervical region the anterior cornua are thick .and short, the pos- terior are long and slender; in the dorsal, the anterior and posterior cornua are both thin; in the lumbar, the anterior and posterior cornua are large and broad; in the lower part of the cord the grey matter is arranged in a central mass. Eunning along the Central centre of the cord in its whole length is a minute Canax. canal, just visible to the naked eye. It is- lined with cylindrical ciliated epithelium, and opens superiorly into the fourth ventricle. The central canal is interesting, as it is the remains of the cavity formed by the spinal cord at the earliest period of its development.f Thirty-one pairs of nerves arise from the spinal Spinal Nerves. , , . , , . ,, , . , , cord, namely, eight in the cervical region, twelve in the dorsal, five in the lumbar, five in the sacral, and one in the coccygeal. Each nerve is formed by the junction of two series of roots, one from the front, the other from the back of the cord. Two Roots ^ir Charles Bell first discovered the fact, that Sensitive and the anterior roots consist exclusively of motor Motor. filaments, and the posterior exclusively of sensory. * The different appearances of the arrangement of the grey matter in the cord have been accurately described and figured by Rolando, 'Richerche Anatomiche sulla Struttura del Midollo Spinale, con Figure, art. tratto dal Dizionario Periodico di Me- diana;' Torino, 1824, 8vo. p. 55. f The central canal is well seen in fishes, birds, and reptiles.