645 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. The ViTBEors The vitreous body is a transparent, gelatinous- Body and the looking substance, which fills up nearly four-fifths Hyaloid Mem- of the interior of the globe (p. 634). It can be -RAyE' . easily separated from the retina, except at the optic disc; in front it presents a deep depression, in which the crystalline lens is embedded. It is surrounded by a delicate transparent membrane, the hyaloid membrane, which forms a capsule for the vitreous body, and is sufficiently strong to keep it in shape after the stronger tunics of the eye have been removed. When the vitreous humour has been hardened in chromic acid it is rendered somewhat opaque, and presents, especially at its outer part, a lamellar appearance. It consists of a fluid con- tained in the meshes of a cellular structure, which communicate freely with each other ; for if any part of it be punctured, the humour gradually drains away.* If examined carefully, the lamellation is seen to be arranged concentrically, the layers, as they approach the centre, becoming less firm in consistence. The vitreous, moreover, on a transverse section shows a radial striation, but whether this exists naturally, or is the result of post-mortem changes, or from chemical reagents, is not known. Kunning thro^jj the middle from before backwards is a small canal-— canal of SHlMna—-about a line in diameter, which contains fluid, and is broader behind than in front; this in the foetus lodges a small branch of the retinal artery, which ramifies on the back of the capsule of the lens. Surroundingr the hollow Zone of Zinn. . -7: ~ TT-; ' ■ - ■■■ in the vitreous which re- Fig. 164. ARTEItlES OF THE RETINA. ceives the crystalline lens is the zone of ZvrmA This zone is best exposed by remov- inTThe ciliary processes. It appears as a Ca^ ofjetit (inflated) 0 J 1 L * Zone of Zinn (exaggerated). dark, radiating disk, and extends from the front margin of the retina nearly to the capsule of the lens ; * This is composed mainly of water, with albuminate of soda, and mucin, f Zinn was Professor of Anatomy at Gottingen about the middle of the eighteenth century, and author of ' Descriptio Anat. Oculi Humani.'