DISSECTION OF THE MALE PERINEUM. 416 alter in adaptation to the exigencies of each part. On the scro- tum the fat constituent of the tissue is entirely absent; while the connective tissue element is most abundant, and during life elastic and contractile. But, towards the deeper part of the anus, Fat in Ischto- the fat accumulates more and more, and on either rectal Foss*:. s{^e 0fthe rectum it is found in the shape of large masses, rilling up what would otherwise be two deep hollows in this situation—namely, the ischio-rectal fossae. These fossae are tri- angular, with their bases towards the skin, and their apices at the divergence of the obturator interims and levator ani. They are about two inches in depth, and much deeper posteriorly than in front. This accumulation of fat on each side of the anus, permits the easy distension and contraction of the lower end of the bowel during and after the passage of the faeces. Over the tuberosities of the ischia are large masses of fat, separated by tough, fibrous septa, passing from the skin to the bone, so as to make an elastic padding to sit upon. Occasionally, too, there are one or more large bursve, interposed between this padding and the bone. So much respecting the general characters of the subcutaneous tissue of the perineum. Some anatomists describe it as consisting of three, four, or even more layers, but in nature we do not find it so. It may, indeed, be divided into as many layers as we please, according to our skill in dissection; but this- only complicates what is, in itself, simple. The external sphincter ani must now be cleaned; care being taken not to remove any of its fibres ; which are intimately connected with the skin. Posteriorly, the lower border of the gluteus maximus must be displayed, and the vessels and nerves crossing the perineum, towards the anus, care- fully dissected. External The external sphincter of the anus is elliptical^ Sphincter Ani. and arises from the point of the coccyx, and the ano-coccygeal ligament. The muscular fibres surround the anus, and are inserted in a pointed manner in the tendinous centre of the perineum (p. 419). It is called the external sphincter, to