116 SYMPATHETIC NERVE IN THE NECK. cranial nerve; a third joins the great petrosal branch of the facial, and forms the Vidian nerve. The inner branch, running on with the artery to the cavernous sinus, there forms another plexus, called from its posi- tion the 1 Cavernous Plexus.' Here the sympathetic is seen to com- municate with the third, the fourth, and the ophthalmic branch of the fifth cranial n. Lastly, from both these plexuses secondary plexuses proceed, of which the minute filaments ramify on, and supply the coats of, the terminal branches of the internal carotid. d. With the several ganglia of the sympathetic system about the head and neck; namely, the ophthalmic, spheno-palatine, otic, and sub- maxillary. The branches which it distributes are— e. Nerves to the Heart.—One or more (superior cardiac) descend behind the sheath of the carotid in front of the inferior thyroid artery and recurrent laryngeal nerve, and, entering the chest, join the superficial and deep cardiac plexuses. f. Nerves to the Pharynx.—These join the pharyngeal plexus on the middle constrictor of the pharynx. g. Nerves to the Blood-vessels.—These nerves, named on account of their delicacy nervi molles, ramify around the external carotid artery and its branches. The middle cervical ganglion is something less than a barley- corn in size. It is situated behind the carotid sheath, about the fifth or sixth cervical vertebra, near the inferior thyroid artery. It receives branches from the fifth and sixth spinal nerves, and gives off— a. Branches to the Thyroid Body.—These accompany the inferior thyroid artery, and join the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves. b. Branch to the Heart.—This (middle cardiac) nerve usually de- scends, on the right side, in front of the subclavian artery into the chest, where it lies on the trachea. It is joined by some cardiac filaments from the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and joins the deep cardiac plexus. On the left side, this cardiac nerve lies between the carotid and subclavian arteries. In cases where the middle cervical ganglion is absent, the pre- ceding nerves are supplied by the sympathetic cord connecting the superior and inferior ganglia.