LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. 564 tudinal line through the second toe, we find that all the dorsal muscles draw from that line, and the plantar towards it. This is the key to the action of them all. A more detailed account of these muscles is given in the dissection of the hand (p. 336). Between the tendons of the interossei, that is, between the distal ends of the metatarsal bones, there are bursse which facilitate movement. They sometimes become enlarged and occasion painful swellings between the roots of the toes. The flexor brevis minimi digiti, the transversalis pedis, and all the interossei are supplied by the external plantar nerve. Now trace the tendons of the peroneus longus and tibialis posticus. The tendon of the peroneus longus is the deepest in the sole. It runs through a groove in the cuboid bone obliquely across the sole towards its insertion into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. It is confined in a strong fibrous sheath, lined throughout by synovial membrane. The tendon of the tibialis posticus may be traced over the internal lateral ligament of the ankle, and thence under the head of the astragalus to the scaphoid bone, into which it is chiefly inserted. Prolongations are sent off to the cuneiform bones, to the cuboid, to the sustentaculum tali, and to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Observe that the tendon contributes to support the head of the astragalus, and that for this purpose it often contains a sesamoid bone. This is one of the many provisions for the solidity of the arch of the foot, DISSECTION OF THE LIGAMENTS. Ligaments of The sacrum is united to the last lumbar ver- the Pelvis. tebra in the same manner as one vertebra is to another. The same observation applies to the union between the sacrum and the coccyx. The student should, therefore, refer to the description of the ligaments of the spine (p. 246). The innominate bones are connected to each other in front, constituting the symphysis pubis ; posteriorly to the sacrum, con- stituting the sacro-iliac symphysis.