237 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. f processes of the lumbar vertebrae, also into the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae, and, externally, into the greater number t of the ribs (varying from eight to eleven) between their tubercles ]< and angles, and, lower down, into the lumbar fascia, and into the . transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. Transversalis This is the cervical continuation of the longissi- Colli. mus dorsi. It arises by tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the* transverse processes of the four or five lower cervical vertebrae except the last. Trachelo- This muscle, situated on the inner side of the mastoid. preceding, is the internal continuation of the longissimus dorsi to the cranium. It arises from the transverse processes of the three or four upper dorsal, and the articular pro- cesses of the three or four lower cervical vertebrae, and is inserted by a flat tendon into the back part of the mastoid process beneath the splenius* * Those who are familiar with the transcendental nomenclature of the vertebrate skeleton will understand from the following quotation the plan upon which the muscles of the back are arranged :— ' The muscles of the back are either longitudinal or oblique : that is, they either pass vertically downwards from spinous process to spinous process, from diapophysis to diapophysis, from rib to rib (pleurapophyses), &c, or they extend obliquely from diapophysis to spine, or from diapophysis to pleurapophysis, &c. ' The erector spinse is composed of two planes of longitudinal fibres aggregated together, below, to form one mass at their point of origin, from the spines and pos- terior surface of the sacrum, from the sacro-iliac ligament, and from the posterior third of the iliac crest. It divides into two portions, the sacro-lumbalis and the longissimus dorsi. ' The former, arising from the iliac crest, or from the pleurapophysis (rib) of the first sacral vertebra, is inserted by short flat tendons into (1) the apices of the stunted lumbar ribs, close to the tendinous origins of the transversalis abdominis ; (2) the angles of the eight or nine inferior dorsal ribs ; (3) it is inserted, through the medium of the musculus accessorius, into the angles of the remaining superior ribs, and into the long and occasionally distinct pleurapophysial element of the seventh cervical vertebra; and (4) through the medium of the cervicalis ascendens, into the pleur- apophysial elements of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. In other words, the muscular fibres extend from rib to rib, from the sacrum to the third cervical vertebra.