DISSECTION OP THE EYE. arches, leaving elongated interspaces, which are most marked towards the middle of the iris. The contractile power of the iris depends upon muscular fibres of the non-striped kind, arranged some in a radiating, others in a circular manner. The radiating (dilatator iridis) converge towards the pupil, where they form arches and blend with the circular fibres ; the circular (sphincter), well marked, are collected on the posterior aspect of the pupillary margin, where they form a ring about ^th of an inch in width.* A considerable amount of connective tissue is present in the iris, forming the stroma, and consists of circular and radiating fibres; the circular are found at the circumference of the iris, the radiating converge towards the pupil. In front of the iris is a thin layer of epithelium, which is continuous with that covering the membrane of Descemet. When minutely injected, the iris appears to be composed almost entirely of blood-vessels; they form, in the ciliary muscle at the outer circumference of the iris, a vascular circle (the circulus major), from which numerous small branches pass inwards, and form another circle (circulus minor), which terminates in the veins of the iris. Its blood-vessels are derived from two sources—the posterior or long, and the anterior ciliary arteries. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, perforate the sclerotica on each side of the optic nerve, and then run forwards upon the choroid to the ciliary muscle ; here they divide into branches constituting the circulus major, just described: the anterior, five or six in number, are derived from the muscular branches, and ramify on the tendons of the recti muscles (p. 212), where they perforate the sclerotica behind the margin of the cornea. These vessels supply the ciliary processes and iris, and it is from their enlargement that the red zone round the cornea is produced in inflammation of the iris. Ciliary The nerves of the iris, about fifteen in number, Nerves. proceed from the lenticular ganglion, and from * The circular fibros of the iris in the bird are of the striped variety, and discern- ible without difficulty.