554 DEEP MUSCLES AT THE BACK OF THE LEG. forms a posterior annular ligament which confines the tendons and the vessels and nerves in their passage into the sole of the foot. Deep Mus.cles There are three :—the flexor longus digitorum on the Back of on the tibial side ; the flexor longus pollicis on the Leg. fibula • the tibialis posticus upon the inter- osseous membrane, between and beneath them both. FlBX0R This arises from the posterior surface of the Longus Digi- tibia, commencing below the popliteus, and ex- T0RUM- tending to within four inches of the lower end of the bone, also from the fascia over the tibialis posticus. The fibres terminate on a tendon which runs through a groove behind the inner ankle, and, entering the sole, divides into four tendons, which are inserted into the ungual phalanges of the four outer toes. It is supplied by the posterior tibial nerve. Flexor This powerful muscle arises from the lower two- Longus Pollicis. thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula, from the septum between it and the peronei, and from the aponeurosis over the tibialis posticus. The fibres terminate on a tendon which runs through a groove on the back of the astragalus ; thence it passes under the sustentaculum tali, and is inserted into the ungual phalanx of the great toe. The chief action of this muscle is to raise the body on the tip of the great toe. It is essential to the propulsion of the body in walking. It is supplied by the posterior tibial nerve. Tibialis This is so concealed between the two preceding Posticus. muscles that it cannot be properly examined with- out reflecting them. It arises from the interosseous membrane, from the opposite surfaces of the tibia and fibula for about their middle three-fifths, and from the aponeurosis covering it. In the lower part of the leg it passes between the tibia and the flexor longus digitorum. Its muscular fibres terminate on a tendon which comes into view a short distance above the inner ankle, and, running through the same groove with the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, enters the sole, and is inserted into the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bones, and by fibrous prolongations into most of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. Its action is to bend