MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 74 The student is recommended to make out the muscles and arteries on the one side, leaving the other side for the display of the nerves. The motor nerve which supplies all the muscles of expression in the face is the '•portio dura J or facial division of the seventh cranial nerve. It emerges from the stylo-mastoid foramen, and divides into branches, which pass through the parotid gland, forming a plexus termed the 'pes anserinusS The sensory nerves of the face are chiefly derived from the three divisions of the fifth cranial nerve ; namely, the supra-orbital, the infra-orbital, and the mental. The only other nerves which confer sensation upon the face are, the auriculo-parotidean branch of the cervical plexus (p. 20), which supplies the skin covering the parotid gland and part of the cheek; and the naso-lobular, which supplies the ala and tip of the nose. It is convenient to arrange the muscles of the face under three groups ; appertaining, respectively, to the mouth, the nose, the eye- brows and lids. Begin with those of the mouth. The muscles of the mouth are arranged thus: there is an orbi- cular or sphincter muscle surrounding the lips; from this, as from a common centre, muscles diverge and are fixed into the surround- ing bones. They are named elevators, depressors, sphincters, &c, according to their respective action. Museums Riso- This muscle arises from the fascia over the mas- eius (Santorini). seter m., and passes horizontally forwards to be inserted into the angle of the mouth, where it intermingles with the orbicularis oris and other muscles in this situation. It produces the smile, not of good humour, but of derision. This muscle is usually considered as a part of the platysma myoides (p. 17). Orbicularis This muscle, nearly an inch in breadth, sur- °RIS- rounds the mouth, forming a kind of sphincter. Its size and thickness in different individuals produce the variety in the prominence of the lips. Observe that its fibres, except the most internal, do not surround the mouth in one unbroken series, but that those of the upper and lower lip decussate at the angles of the mouth, and intermingle with the fibres of the buccinator and