DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 177 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. To obtain a view of the pharynx, cut through the trachea, the oesophagus and the large vessels of the neck, and then separate them from the bodies of the cervical vertebra?, with which they are loosely connected. The base of the skull should be sawn through transversely between the vertebral column and the styloid processes of the temporal bone, so as to leave the pharynx and the larynx attached to the anterior half of the section. Horsehair should then be* introduced through the mouth and oesophagus to distend the walls of the pharynx. Pharynx:gene- The term pharynx is applied to that part of the ral description-. alimentary canal which receives the food after it has been masticated, and propels it downwards into the oesophagus. It is a funnel-shaped muscular bag, about four and a half inches in length. Its broadest portion is situated opposite the os hyoides. Its upper part is attached to the basilar process of the occipital bone and the petrous portions of the temporal bones ; thence it extends to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, where the continuation of it takes the name of oesophagus. The bag is connected, in front, to the sides of the posterior nares, the tongue, the hyoid bone and the larynx; and, behind, to the bodies of the cervical vertebrae by loose connective tissue which never contains fat. In abscesses at the back of the pharynx, the pus is seated in this tissue. Parallel with, and close to its sides, run the internal carotid arteries, the internal jugular veins, the eighth, ninth and sympathetic nerves. Its dimensions are not equal throughout. Its breadth at the upper part is equal to that of the posterior openings of the nose ; here it is only required to convey air: but it becomes much wider in the situa- tion where it transmits the food—that is, at the back of the mouth ; thence it gradually contracts to the oesophagus. The pharynx therefore, may be compared to a funnel communicating in front by wide apertures with the nose, the mouth, and the larynx; while the oesophagus represents the tube leading from its lower end. N