NERVES OP THE UPPER ARM. 284 coraco-brachialis. The nerve then diverges from the artery, per- forates the internal intermuscular septum, and runs with the in- ferior profunda artery, behind the internal condyle. The distribution of the nerve is to the flexor carpi ulnaris, to half the flexor profundus digitorum, to all the interosseous muscles of the hand, to both sides of the little finger, to the ulnar side of the ring finger, to the muscles of the ball of the little finger, to The two ulnar lumbricales, and, lastly, to the adductor pollicis, and the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. Previous to the examination of the musculo-spiral nerve, we should examine the great muscle which occupies the whole of the posterior part of the humerus—viz. the triceps extensor cubiti. Triceps Exten- This muscle has three distinct origins, named sor CuBin. from their position, the external, the internal, and the middle or long heads (p. 266). The middle or long head arises by a flat tendon from the inferior border of the scapula, close to the glenoid cavity. The external head arises from the humerus, beginning in a pointed form immediately below the insertion of "the teres minor, and extending as low down as the musculo-spiral groove. The internal head arises from the humerus below the insertion of the teres major, from the posterior surface of the bone below the musculo-spiral groove, and from the internal inter- muscular septum. The three heads unite, near the middle of the arm, to form a single fleshy mass, which covers the posterior part of the elbow-joint, and is inserted by a thick tendon into the summit and sides of the olecranon. Each head is supplied by a ^egarate^branch from the musculo-spiral nerve. Musculo-8pi- This, the largest of the brachial nerves, arise^ ral Nerve. in common with the circumflex, from the posterior cord of the axillary plexus (p. 268). It descends at first behind the axillary artery, and then winds obliquely round the posterior part of the humerus, between the external and internal heads of the triceps, in company with the superior profunda artery. About the lower third of the outer side of the arm, the nerve perforates the external intermuscular septum, and then runs deeply embedded between the brachialis anticus and the supinator radii longus.