160 DISSECTION OF THE HEART, attached to the base o£ the valve ; those of the second, from four to six, proceed to the middle of its ventricular surface; those of the third, which are the smallest and most numerous, are attached to its free margin.* Pulmonary or These are three membranous folds, like watch- Semilunar pockets, situated at the orifice of the pulmonary Valves. artery. They are attached to the fibrous ring at the root of the artery; their free edges look upwards, and present a festooned border, in the centre of which is a small cartilagi- nous body called the nodulus or corpus Arantii.\ The use of these bodies is plain. Since the valves are semilunar, when they fall together they would not exactly close the artery; there would be a space of a triangular form left between them in the centre, just as there is when we put the thumb, fore, and middle ringers together. This space is filled up by these no- dules, so that the closure becomes complete. The valves are composed of folds of the endocardium, or lining membrane of the heart. Between the folds is a thin layer of fibrous tissue, which is prolonged from the fibrous ring at the orifice of the artery. This layer of fibrous tissue, however, reaches the free edge of the valve at three points only : namely, at the centre, or corpus Arantii, and at each extremity. Between these points it stops short, and leaves a crescent-shaped portion of the valve which is thinner than the rest, and consists of the endocardial mem- brane. This crescent-shaped portion, called the lunula, is not wholly * The best mode of showing the action of the valve is to introduce a glass tube into the pulmonary artery, and then to pour water through it into the ventricle until the cavity is quite distended. By gently squeezing the ventricle in the hand, so as artificially to imitate its natural contraction, the tricuspid valve will flap back like a flood-gate, and close the auriculo-vontricular opening. In this way one can understand how, when the ventricle contracts, the blood catches the margin of the valve, and by its pressure gives it the proper distension and figure requisite to block up the aperture into the auricle. It is obvious that the tendinous cords will prevent the valve from flapping back into the auricle; and this purpose is assisted by the papillary muscles, which nicely adjust the degree of tension of the cords at a time when they would otherwise be too much slackened by the contraction of the ventricle. f So called after Arantius. an Italian anatomist, who lived towards the close of the sixteenth century.