SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. 438 Prostate The prostate gland is situated at the neck of Gland. ^he bladder^ and surrounds the first part of the urethra (fig. 96). In the healthy adult it is about the size and shape of a chestnut. Its apex is directed forwards. It is sur- rounded by a plexus of veins (p. 432), and is maintained in its position by the pelvic fascia (p. 431). Its upper surface is about three-quarters of an inch below the symphysis pubis: its apex is about one inch and a half from the anus; the base is about two and a half. Above the prostate are the anterior ligaments of the bladder, with the dorsal vein of the penis between them; below, and in contact with it, is the rectum ; on each side of it is the levator ani; in front of it are the membranous part of the urethra (sur- rounded by its compressor muscle), and the triangular ligament; behind, are the neck of the bladder and the vesiculse seminales with the ejaculatory ducts. The transverse diameter is about one inch and a half; the vertical is about half an inch less,^ But the gland varies in size at different periods of life. In the child it is imperfectly de- veloped : it gradually grows towards puberty, and generally in- creases in size with advancing age. To ascertain the size and condition of the prostate during life, the bladder shoidd be at least half full: the prostate is then pressed down towards the rectum, and readily within reach of the finger. A The urethra is a canal about eight inches in ANATOMY OF *>'^>mm^^nmammmmm.m~>i«iMttijmi wiiiiuiiLmijiiiiii.il i iQ .mill———W the Urethra length, and leads from the bladder to the end of in its Passage the penis. It js divided into three portions—the under^the prostatic, the membranous, and the spongy. At present only the relations of the membranous part, which comprises that part of the canal between the prostate and the bulb, can be examined. The urethra in this part is nearly one inch in length, but longer on its upper than its lower surface, in consequence of the encroachment of the bulb. In its passage under the arch of the pubes, it is surrounded by the compressor urethraa, and below it are Cowper's