PALM OF THE HAND. 304 stronger between the joints than over the joints themselves. Through these sheaths, inflammation commencing in the integu- ments of the finger may readily extend to the synovial membrane of the tendon. In cases of whitlow, when pus forms in the theca, the incision should be made deep enough to lay open this fibro-osseous canal, without which the incision will be of no use. It is obvious that the incision should be made down the centre of the finger, to avoid the digital nerves and arteries. If this opening be not timely made, the flexor tendons are likely to slough, and the finger be- comes stiff.* But what protects the joints of the fingers where the flexor tendons play over them ? Look into an open sheath, and you will see that in front of the joints the tendons glide over a smooth fibro- cartilaginous structure, called the c palmar' ligament. To facilitate the play of the tendons, the interior of the sheath, as well as the tendons, is lined by a synovial membrane, of the extent of which it is important to have a correct knowledge. With a probe you may ascertain that the synovial membrane is reflected from the sheath upon the tendons, a little above the metacarpal joints of the fingers; that is, nearly in a line with the transverse fold in the skin in the lower third of the palm. Towards the distal end of the finger, the synovial sheath stops short of the last joint, so that it is not injured in amputation of the ungual phalanx. And now notice how the tendons are adapted to each other in their course along the finger. The superficial flexor, near the root of the finger, becomes slightly grooved to receive the deep flexor ; about the middle of the first phalanx it splits into two portions, through which the deep flexor passes. The two portions reunite * On closer inspection it will be observed that the sheath is composed of bands of fibres, which take different directions, and have received distinct names. The strongest are called the ' ligamenta vaginalia.' They constitute the sheath over the body of the phalanx, and extend transversely from one side of the bone to the other. The ' ligamenta cruciata' are two slips, which cross obliquely over the tendons. The ' ligamenta annularia' are situated immediately in front of the joints, and may be considered as thin continuations of the ligamenta vaginalia. They consist of fibres, which are attached on either side to the lateral ligaments of the joints, and pass transversely over the tendons.