151 PULMONARY ARTERY. dicularly over the neck of the first rib to form part of the brachial plexus. Before doing so, it sends a1 nerve to the first intercostal space. This, as a rule, has no lateral cutaneous branch. Intercostal lymphatic glands.—These are situated near the heads of the ribs; there are some between the layers of the inter- costal muscles. They are of small size, and their efferent vessels go into the thoracic duct. We have seen these intercostal glands en- larged and diseased in phthisis. Bronchial and Small bronchial arteries, arising on the right (Esophageal side most frequently from the first aortic intercos- Arteries. tal (3rd intercostal)- artery, and on the left from the thoracic aorta, accompany the bronchial tube on its posterior aspect into the substance of the lung.* Their distribution and office will be considered with the anatomy of the lung. (Esopha- geal arteries four or five in number proceed from the front of the thoracic aorta to ramify on the oesophagus, where they inoscu- late above with the oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid, and below with the coronaria ventriculi and phrenic arteries. Small posterior mediastinal arteries are given off from the posterior part of the aorta, and supply the lymphatic glands and tissues of the posterior mediastinum. Having finished the posterior mediastinum, replace the lung, and turn your attention once more to the great vessels at the root of the heart.. Pulmonary This vessel is about two inches in length, aud Artery. conveys the venous blood from the heart to the lungs. It proceeds from the upper part of the right ventricle, and passes upwards and backwards along the left side of the aorta to the concavity of the arch of the aorta, where it divides into two branches, a right and a left, one for each lung. At its origin it has on each side an auricular appendix and a coronary artery, and lies in front of the root of the aorta. The pulmonary artery and the aorta are surrounded for two inches by a common sheath of * On the left side there are usually two bronchial arteries—a superior, arising from the highest part of the thoracic aorta, and- an inferior, arising about an inch lower down.