C8 BRANCHES OP THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. .subscapular, and with the posterior scapular artery. Near the notch, it is joined by the supra-scapular nerve, which runs through it. The branches of this artery are numerous but small, and are as follow : the inferior sterno-mastoid (p. 25); the supra-acromial, which anastomoses with the acromio-thoracic artery; articular branches to the shoulder joint; the infra-spinous, which ramifies in the infra-spinous fossa; and the subscapular, which ramifies in the substance of the subscapularis muscle. 3. The posterior scapular (transversalis colli) artery, of which the normal origin is said to be from the thyroid axis, very frequently arises from the subclavian in the last part of its course. It is larger than the preceding artery, and runs tortuously across the side of the neck (higher than the supra-scapular), over the scalene muscles and the great nerves of the brachial plexus (sometimes between them), and disappears beneath the trapezius and the levator anguli scapulas to reach the superior angle of the scapula. It then runs beneath the rhomboid muscles, which it supplies, down to the inferior angle of the scapula, anastomosing freely with the terminations of the supra- and sub-scapular arteries. In the space between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, the posterior scapular gives off the superjicialis colli. This vessel proceeds tortuously across the posterior triangle of the neck to the under surface of the trapezius, to which, with the levator anguli scapulas, it is principally distributed. The superjicialis colli often comes direct from the thyroid axis. The veins corresponding to the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries terminate in the external jugular, sometimes in the subclavian. The inferior thyroid vein crosses in front of the common carotid artery, and joins the internal jugular. Internal This artery arises from the subclavian opposite Mammary. to the thyroid axis. It enters the chest behind the subclavian vein, and descends behind the cartilages of the ribs, about half an inch from the sternum. Its further progress will be examined in the dissection of the chest (p. 121). The corresponding vein most frequently terminates in the brachio-cephaiic. Superior This artery is given off by the subclavian behind Intercostal. the scalenus anticus on the right side, and to its inner side on the left, so that you must divide the muscle to see it. It enters the chest behind the pleura, to the outer side of the first