427 DISSECTION OF THE MALE PERINEUM. Taken in order, the branches of the pudic artery are as follows:— a. The external hcemorrhoidal, the superficial perineal, and the trans- verse perineal branches have already been described (pp. 417, 418). b. The artery of the bulb is of considerable size, and passes trans- versely inwards; it runs through the substance of the compressor urethrse, and before it enters the bulb divides into two or three branches. It also sends a small branch to Cowper's gland. From the direction of this artery it will at once strike the attention that there is great risk of dividing it in lithotomy. If the artery run along its usual level, and the incision' be not made too high in the perineum, then indeed it is out of the way of harm. But, supposing the reverse, the vessel must be divided. This deviation from the normal distribution is met with about once in twenty subjects, and there is no possibility of ascertaining this anomaly beforehand. c. The artery of the cms penis, one of the terminal branches, ascends for a short distance near the pubic arch and soon enters the cms. d. To see the dorsal artery of the penis, the penis should be dissected from its attachment to the symphysis pubis. The artery can be traced upon the dorsum of the penis down to the glans. It forms a complete arterial circle with its fellow round the corona glandis, and gives numerous ramifications to the papillae on the surface. The veins corresponding to the branches of the pudic artery- terminate in the pudic vein, with the exception of the dorsal vein of the penis. This runs along the middle of the dorsum of the penis, and passing under the symphysis pubis opens into the prostatic plexus. Pudic Nerve ^e Pu(^c nerve comes from the sacral plexus, and corresponds both in its course and branches with the artery. It gives off its external or inferior hemorrhoidal, and its superficial perineal branches-—a small one to the bulb, and another to the crus penis; but the main trunk of the nerve runs with the artery along the dorsum of the penis to the glans (fig. 93). In its passage it supplies the integuments of the penis, and sends one or two branches into the corpus cavernosum. This part of the penis also receives nerves from the sympathetic system.