DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. 335 bones, where it dips down between the two origins of the abductor indicis, and, entering the palm, forms the deep palmar arch. In this part of its course it is crossed by filaments of the radial nerve ; observe, also, that the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis passes over it immediately before it sinks into the palm. It supplies the following small branches to the back of the hand:— a. Posterior carpal artery.—This branch passes across the carpal bones, beneath the extensor tendons. It inosculates with the termina- tion of the anterior interosseous artery, and forms an arch beneath the extensor tendons, with a corresponding branch from the ulnar artery. The carpal artery sends off small branches, called the dorsal interosseous, which descend along the third and fourth interosseous spaces from the arch just mentioned, beneath the extensor tendons, and inosculate near the carpal ends of the metacarpal bones with the perforating branches from the deep palmar arch. b. The first dorsal interosseous artery is generally larger than the others. It passes towards the second interosseous space to the cleft be- tween the index and middle fingers, communicating here with a perfora- ting branch of the deep palmar arch, and terminates in small branches, some of which proceed along the back of the fingers, others inosculate with the palmar digital arteries. c. The dorsal artery of the index-finger, a branch of variable size, passes over the first interosseous muscle to the radial side of the back of the index finger. d. The dorsal arteries of the thumb are two small branches which arise from the radial opposite the head of the first metacarpal bone, and run along the back of the thumb, one on either side. They are often absent. These dorsal interosseous arteries supply the extensor tendons and their sheaths, the interosseous muscles, and the skin on the back of the hand, and the first phalanges of the fingers. _ Kemove the tendons from the back, and from DIS S V f TT O "N" the palm, of the hand : observe the deep palmar fascia which covers the interosseous muscles. It is attached to the ridges of the metacarpal bones, forms a distinct sheath for each interosseous muscle, and is continuous inferiorly with the