640 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve (p. 213). They perforate the back of the sclerotica like the arteries, run along the choroid which they supply in their course, and then break up into a fine non-medullated plexus, which supplies the ciliary muscle and iris. Membrana Until the seventh or eighth month of foetal Pufillaris. life, the pupil is closed by a delicate membrane, the memhrana pupillaris. Its vessels, derived from thoae of the iris and capsule of the lens, are arranged in loops which converge toward the centre of the membrane. Quekett has described this membrane, which has always been regarded as a distinct structure, as identical with the anterior layer of the capsule of the lens.*4 To obtain a view of the retina, the choroid coat must be carefully removed while the eye is under water ; this should be done with the forceps and scissors on a fresh eye. The optic nerve, having entered the interior of the globe through the sclerotic and the choroid, expands into the deli- cate nervous tunic called the retina. In passing through the coats of the eye the nerve becomes gradually constricted and reduced to one-half of its diameter; here it presents a round disk, called the yorus opticus, in the centre of which may be seen the arteria centralis retinas. At this point, too, the nerve-sub- stance projects slightly into the interior of the globe, forming a little prominence, to which the term colliculus nervi oytici has been applied.f In front the retina terminates a little behind the poste- rior margin of the ciliary processes in a thin serrated border (org RP.rraf.n\ Precisely opposite the pupil, in the centre of the axis of vision, there is an oval yellow spot, macula- lutear, in the retina, about yVth of an inch in diameter, fading off gradually at the edges, and having a- black spoL fovea centralis, in the centre. * See a paper by John Quekett in the 'Transactions of the Microscopical Society of London,' vol. iii. p. 9. | This prominence is remarkable in that it-is insensible to the rays of light. It is termed the ' blind spot.'