DIAPHRAGM. 398 is 4 musculus post cor nobilissimus.' During inspiration the mus- cular sides of the diaphragm contract, and become less arched (as shown by the dotted line in fig. 85) ; the floor of the chest sinks in consequence, and more room is made for the expansion of the lungs. During expiration the diaphragm relaxes, and the air is expelled, partly by the elasticity of the lungs and the thoracic walls, partly by muscular action. This alternate sinking and rising of the diaphragm constitutes a chief part of the mechanism of breathing. But the diaphragm conduces to the performance of many other functions. Acting in concert with the abdominal muscles, it assists in the expulsion of the faeces and the urine, also in parturition and in vomiting : for in all these operations we first take in a deep breath, that the diaphragm may be in a state of contraction, and so form a resisting surface, against which the viscera may be compressed by the abdominal muscles. Moreover, by its rapid or spasmodic contractions it is one of the chief agents concerned in laughing, sneezing, coughing, hiccough. The muscles and nerves at the back of the Dissection. abdomen must be carefully cleaned; also, the abdominal aorta, and vena cava inferior in front of the spine, with- out injuring the sympathetic nerves, situated on each side of the bodies of the vertebrae. The sheath which invests the psoas should be examined, and the branches of the lumbar plexus preserved as they emerge from the outer part of the muscle. The sheath of the psoas is attached to the sides of the vertebrae, the brim of the pelvis, and above to the ligamentum arcuatum internum. It is this sheath which determines the ordinary course of psoas abscess : namely, beneath the crural arch into the upper part of the thigh; for it is a rare exception when the matter travels into the pelvis. This long muscle arises by five muscular fasciculi Psoas Magnus. ° J from the transverse processes ot all the lumbar vertebrae, also from the bodies of the last dorsal, and all the lumbar vertebrae and their intervening fibro-cartilages ; but only from the projecting borders of the bodies, not from the cen- tral grooved part: here the fibres arise from tendinous arches H