41 SUBMAXILLARY REGION. A student had fallen into the Seine, and was nearly drowned. As he was recovering very gradually, some kind friends attempted to accelerate the process by making an opening into the trachea. In so doing they wounded the brachio-cephalic vein. Blood poured into the trachea, and the result was instantly fatal. Whoever pays attention to this subject in the dissecting-room will soon be convinced of the fact, that not only large veins but large arteries occasionally cross the crico-thyroid membrane as well as the trachea, thus showing the necessity of cutting cautiously down to, and fairly exposing the air tube, before we venture to open it.* Dissection of When the platysma and the cervical fascia have the Submaxil- removed from their attachment to the jaw, lary Region, or i the Digastric the most conspicuous object is the submaxillary Triangle. gland. Observe that the fascia forms for it a complete capsule. Beneath the jaw are several lymphatic glands, from six to ten in number, of which some lie superficial to the salivary gland, others beneath it. These glands receive the lymphatics of the face, the tonsils, and the tongue. A little dissection will expose a muscle called the digastricus, consisting of two distinct portions connected by a tendon. They form, with the body of the jaw, a triangle, called the digastric, of which we propose to examine the contents. And first of the digastric muscle itself. The digastricus consists of two muscular bellies Dig astricus • united by an intermediate tendon. It arises from the digastric fossa of the temporal bone, passes obliquely down- wards and forwards, and then ascends to be inserted close to the symphysis of the lower jaw. Eaise the submaxillary gland to see the intermediate tendon of the digastricus, the angle which it forms, and how it is fastened by aponeurosis to the body and greater cornu of the os hyoides. Observe also that this aponeurosis * It is preferable, after making the first incision through the skin, to lay aside the sharp knife and to use a blunt one, so that the tissues may be torn rather than cut; by this proceeding the liability to haemorrhage is materially lessened.