013 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. examined (p. 585):—1. A median groove, the remains of the primitive axis canal; running parallel to it on each side is a round elevation, the fasciculus teres. 2. From the lower part of the furrow two white cords (the restiform bodies or inferior crura cerebelli) pass off from the medulla oblongata, diverging like the branches of the letter V, and enter the lateral hemi- spheres of the cerebellum. The divergence of these eords, with the median furrow, was called by the old anatomists the calamus scri'ptorius. 3. The floor of the fourth ventricle is covered by grey matter, which is the grey substance of the medulla exposed by the divergence of the restiform bodies; one slight accumula- tion, external to the fasciculus teres, has received the name of locus coeruleus. 4. On the floor are seen a number of transverse white lines—striae medullares—emerging from the median groove, some of which form part of the origin of the auditory nerves. n This portion of the brain is situated in the Cerebellum. . occipital fossa, beneath the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, from which it is separated by the tentorium. Its form is ellipsoidal, with the long axis transverse. When the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater are removed, it is noticed that its surface is darker, and not arranged in convolutions like those of the cerebrum. It consists of a multitude of thin plates, folia, disposed in a series of concentric curves, with the concavity forwards. By a little dissection, it is easy to separate some of the laminae from each other, and to see that the intervening- fissures increase in depth from the centre towards the circum- ference. The cerebellum consists of two lateral hemispheres united by an intermediate portion, the vermiform process, the upper aspect of which takes the name of the superior vermiform process, the inferior that of the inferior vermiform process. Comparative anatomy proves that this is the fundamental part of the cere- bellum, the lateral masses not being developed in the vertebrate series until after the birds. In man they form by far the largest part of the cerebellum. The upper surface is divided from the lower by a deep fissure,