476 STRUCTURE OF THE LIVER. the gall-bladder. Behind, the liver is thick and. round, but towards the front it gradually slopes to a sharp, border. The upper surface is smooth and conveXj in adaptation to the dia- phragm, and is marked by a white line which indicates its divi- sion into a right and left lobe, the right being the larger. The, under surface is irregular and marked by five fissures which map ^ out the five lobes (fig. 107) :—1. The longitu- dinal fissure, dividing the right from the left lobe, contains the round ligament (the remains of the umbilical vein). 2. The continuation of the longitudinal fissure to the pos- terior border of the liver, contains the remains of what was, in the foetus, the ductus venosus, .and is therefore called the fissure for the ductus venosus. 3. The hollow or fissure for the gall- bladder. In the same line with this is, 4, the fissure for the inferior vena cava, which passes obliquely inwards towards the posterior border of the liver. 5. The transverse ox portal fissure unites the other fissures, and transmits the great vessels which enter the liver in the following order : in front is the hepatic duct, behind is the vena porta, and between them the hepatic artery. The relative position of these fissures (the liver being in situ) may be best impressed on the memory by comparing them collectively to the letter H. The transverse fissure represents the cross-bar of the letter; the longitudinal fissure and the fissure of the ductus venosus represent the left bar; the fissures of the gall- bladder and vena cava make the right bar. The lobes of the liver, five in number, are also seen on its under surface. The right lobe, much larger than the left, is separated from it by the longitudinal fissure. On the under surface of the right lobe are two shallow fossce; the anterior is for the hepatic flexure of the colon, the posterior for the right kidney. The remaining lobes, may be considered as forming parts of the right lobe, and are the lobulus Spigelii, the lobidus caudatus, and the lobulus quadratus. The lobulus Spigelii is placed between the fissures for the ductus venosus, and the vena cava, and the transverse fissure; and, behind the trans- verse fissure, it is connected to the right lobe by a ridge—the