SYMPATHETIC NERVE IN THE NECK. 115 The ganglia, as already stated, are connected with the spinal nerves; this connection takes place by two filaments—one of white nerve-fibre which passes from the spinal nerve to the ganglion, the other, of grey, from the ganglion to the spinal nerve. The different portions of the sympathetic gangliated cord receive, respectively, the distinguishing names of the cervical, dorsal, lumbar, and sacral. At present we have only to consider the cervical portion of it. To expose the cervical portion of the sympathetic, the internal carotid .artery, the pneumogastric, glosso-pharyngeal, and hypo- glossal nerves should be cut through near the base of the skull ; then by careful dissection the superior cervical ganglion can be traced out. Cervical Gan- *n ^ne cervical portion of the sympathetic are glia of Sympa- three ganglia, named from their position, superior, thetic. middle, and inferior. The superior cervical ganglion, the largest of the three, is situated near the base of the skull, opposite the second and third cervical vertebrae, and lies behind and on the inner side of the internal carotid artery, upon the rectus capitis anticus major. It is of a reddish-grey colour like the other ganglia, of an elongated oval shape, varying in length from one to two inches. To facili- tate the description of its several branches we divide them into —1st, those which are presumed to connect it with other nerves ; and 2ndly, those which originate from it. It is then connected by branches as follow :— a. "With each of the four upper spinal nerves. b. With the hypoglossal, with both ganglia of the pneumogastric, and with the glosso-pharyngeal. c. Its important cranial branch runs with the internal carotid a. into the carotid canal of the temporal bone, and there divides into two, an outer and an inner. Now this outer branch accompanies the artery through its bony canal, ramifies upon it by the side of the body of the sphenoid, and so constitutes the ' Carotid Plexus.' From this outer branch a filament proceeds to the Gasserian ganglion, another to the sixth i 2