PNEUMOGASTRIC IN THE CHEST. 145 bundles, an anterior and two lateral; these, lower down, spread out and form a continuous layer round the oesophagus and support the circular fibres. Under the microscope the muscular fibres composing the upper part are seen to consist entirely of the striped variety ; at the lower part, almost exclusively of the non-striped variety. The middle coat is composed of areolar tissue, and con- nects very loosely the muscular and mucous coats. The mucous membrane is of a pale colour and considerable thickness, and in the contracted state of the oesophagus is arranged in longitudinal folds within the tube which lies flattened in front of the spine. On the surface of the mucous membrane there are numerous minute papillae placed obliquely. It is lined by a very thick layer of scaly epithelium. In the submucous tissue are many small compound racemose glands—oesophageal glands—especially to- wards the lower end of the oesophagus. Course and ^ne riyht pneumogastric nerve enters the chest Branches of the between the subclavian artery and vein, descends Pneumogastric by the side of the trachea, then passes behind the root of the right lung to the posterior surface of the oesophagus, upon which it divides into branches, which form a plexus (posterior oesophageal) upon that tube. The plexus then reunites into a single trunk, which passes into the abdomen through the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm. The left pneumogastric descends into the chest between the left subclavian and carotid arteries, and behind the left brachio-cephalic vein. It then crosses in front of the arch of the aorta, and passes behind the root of the left lung to the anterior surface of the oesophagus, upon which it also forms a plexus (anterior oesophageal). The branches of the pneumogastric nerve in the chest are as follows: — a. The inferior laryngeal or recurrent.—This nerve on the right side turns under the subclavian and the common carotid arteries (p. 61); on the left, under the arch of the aorta, below the ductus anteriosus, and ascends to the larynx. It passes beneath the inferior thyroid artery, and lying in the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, it enters the larynx beneath the lower border of the inferior constrictor of the L