91 NERVES OP THE FACE, petrous portion of the temporal bone, and leaves the skull at the stylo-mastoid foramen. Its course and connections in the temporal bone will be studied hereafter : at present we must trace the facial part of the nerve. Having emerged from the stylo-mastoid foramen, the nerve enters the parotid gland, and soon divides into two primary branches, named, from their distribution, temporo-facial and cervico-facial. These primary branches cross over the external carotid artery and the external jugular vein, and form, by their communications within the substance of the parotid, the plexus called pes anserinus, from its fancied resemblance to the skeleton of a goose's foot. (Diagram, p. 4.) Close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, the facial nerve gives off its posterior auricular branch (p. 4), which ascends behind the ear and divides into two, an auricular and an occipital; the former supplies the retrahens and attollens aurem, the latter the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis. This branch communicates with the great auricular n. and with the auricular branch of the pneumo- gastric. Its two next branches supply the posterior belly of the digastricus and the stylo-hyoideus. The digastric nerve enters the muscles by many filaments; the nerve to the stylo-hyoid is long and enters the muscle about the middle. The digastric branch communicates with the glosso-pharyngeal near the base of the skull: the stylo-hyoid branch with the sympathetic on the external carotid a. These two muscular nerves are frequently given off from a common branch. The temporo-facial division, the larger of the two, crosses the external carotid and the neck of the jaw, receives two or more communications from the auriculo-temporal (branch of the fifth) and subdivides into temporal, malar, and infra-orbital The temporal branches ascend over the zygoma, supply the^rontalis, the attrahens aurem, the orbicularis palpebrarum, the corrugator super- cilii, and tensor tarsi, and communicate with filaments of the supra-orbital nerve, with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary n., and with the auriculo-temporarn.