451 PROSTATE GLAND. shape, running backwards and upwards, with the narrowest part at the orifice, and its length is about five or six lines. It ascends between the lateral lobes of the prostate, and beneath the middle ; its coats are comparatively thick with some muscular tissue enclosed in them, and it is lined with squamous epithelium. Practically it deserves attention, because in some persons it is large enough to catch the end of a small catheter. The minute orifices of the proper ducts of the prostate, from fifteen to twenty in number, are seen opening into the floor of the prostatic sinus.* The substance of the gland is permeated by the divisions and sub- divisions of the ducts. They are not visible to the naked eye, but if traced out with the microscope, they are seen to terminate in blind sacculated extremities, upon which the capillaries ramify in rich profusion.! The prostate is composed of muscular as well as glandular tissue. Nearly two-thirds of it is made up of plain muscular fibres, arranged in a circular manner round the urethra, at its vesical orifice, so as to form in conjunction with the vesical muscular tissue, a sphincter. The anterior part of the prostate is chiefly muscular, its fibres being continuous with those of the membranous part of the urethra. The prostate is remarkable for its dilatability. If a small incision be made through the anterior part of the gland, the base being left entire, the gland may be dilated by the finger sufficiently to allow the extraction of even large calculi. Any change in the dimensions of the prostate affects the canal which runs through it, and more or less obstructs the flow of urine. If the entire gland be uniformly enlarged, the length of the pro- * In the ducts of the prostate we often find small calculi, of a brown colour, con- sisting of phosphate of lime. Cases are sometimes met with in which these calculi by degrees attain a considerable size, and distend the prostate into a sac, which when examined by the rectum feels not unlike a bag of marbles. t This was first demonstrated by the late Mr. Quekett. The same anatomist has also discovered that the secreting cells of the gland contain calculi of microscopic minuteness. He finds them, almost without exception, in the prostate at every period of life. For further detail concerning them consult the article ' Prostate ' in Todd's ' Cyclopaedia.' G G 2