70 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. Zygomatics The major arises from the outer surface of major and the malar bone close to its suture with the zygoma, minor. passes obliquely downwards and inwards, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth, joining the depressor anguli oris. The Z. minor arises from the outer surface of the malar bone, in front of the precediug, and is inserted into the outer border of the levator labii superioris near the corner of the mouth. The zygomaticus minor is often absent. The zygomaticus major is the muscle of laughing : the minor expresses sadness. Before examining the orbicularis palpebarum, notice the tendo oculi. To make the tendon more apparent, the tarsal cartilages should be drawn outwards. Tendo Oculi This tendon is a thin cord about two lines * in or Palpebrarum, length, aud is readily felt at the inner angle of the eye by drawing the eyelids outwards. It is fixed to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, in front of the lachrymal groove, passes horizontally outwards, and divides into two diver- ging portions, one of which is attached to the upper, the other to- the lower tarsal cartilage. The tendon crosses the lachrymal sac a little above the centre, and furnishes a tendinous expansion which covers the sac and is attached to the margin of the bony groove which contains it. To see this expansion we must reflect that portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum which covers the sac. In puncturing the lachrymal sac the knife is introduced below the tendon, in a direction downwards, outwards, and a little back- wards. We have to divide the skin, a few fibres of the orbicularis, and the fibrous expansion from the tendo palpebrarum. The angular artery and vein are situated on the inner side of the incision. Orbicularis This thin broad muscle surrounds the margin Palpebrarum. 0f the orbit and the eyelids, forming a sphincter. It is attached on the inner side to the tendo palpebrarum, to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, to the internal angular process of the frontal bone, and to the lower margin of the orbit. * A line is the twelfth part of an inch.