PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 366 internal abdominal ring, (or the inner aperture of the inguinal canal). It corresponds to a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the spine of the pubes, and about two-thirds of an inch above the crural arch. It is oval with the long diameter nearly vertical; its margin is well defined on the ■ inner, but not on the outer side, and from its border is continued forwards a funnel-shaped prolongation over the spermatic cord, which passes through the ring. This covering, thin and delicate, is termed the infundibuliform fascia. (This is not seen in the diagram.) Close by the inner border of the internal ring, the deep epigastric artery ascends to enter the substance of the rectus. To see that part of the peritoneum concerned Dissection. . , , .. ,,. e . , ,. . m inguinal hernia, the fascia transversalis must be removed by incisions similar to those recommended before. The fascia is easily separable from the peritoneum which is situ- ated immediately behind it. The peritoneum at the inner ring presents a well-marked depression, which varies, however, consi- derably: in some being scarcely visible; in others, being continued downwards into the inguinal canal, in the form of a pouch. In some instances, a communication is found between the general cavity of the peritoneum and the tunica vaginalis testis. Inguinal Having examined the several strata through Canal, which the spermatic cord passes, replace them in their natural position, and examine the inguinal canal as a whole. Its direction is obliquely downwards and inwards. Its length in a well-formed adult male is from one and a half to two inches. It, is bounded in front by the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and externally by a small portion of the internal oblique; behind, by the fascia transversalis and the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis; abqve^bj the lower fleshy fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis; below % by the crural arch. n From a surgical point of view this is one of the Course and m . Relations of the most important arteries in the body. It arises Deep Epigastric from the external iliac, just before this vessel ^Artery. passes under the crural arch. It ascends inwards