13 EXIT OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. first, second, third, fourth, &c, pairs, according to the order of succession from before backwards. The first is the olfactory nerve. This cannot be seen, be- cause the olfactory bulb has been removed with the brain. From the bulb proceed about twenty branches, which pass through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and are arranged in three sets—inner, middle, and outer. The inner pass to the septum nasi; the middle to the roof of the nose; and the outer to the outer wall of the nose as low as the middle turbinated bone. The second {optic nerve) passes through the foramen opticum into the orbit accompanied by the ophthalmic artery. The third (motor oculi) passes through the dura mater, close behind the anterior clinoid process, traverses the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, and enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. Before passing through the fissure, it divides into two branches, an upper and a lower. The fourth (patheticus), a small nerve, passes through the dura mater a little behind the posterior clinoid process. Like the preceding nerve, it passes through the outer wall of the cavern- ous sinus, and then runs forward through the sphenoidal fissure. Here, it lies above the third nerve, and is finally distributed to the superior oblique muscle. The fifth (trifacial nerve) passes through an aperture in the dura mater beneath the tentorium cerebelli, just above the point of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It is formed of two parts—a larger or sensory root, and a smaller or motor. Upon its larger or sensory root is developed a large ganglion, the Oasserian ganglion. From this ganglion proceed the three primary divi- sions of the nerve—the ophthalmic, which passes through the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, and subsequently enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure; * the superior maxillary, * While the nerve is in the cavernous sinus it receives filaments of communication from the cavernous plexus, and also sends back a branch to supply the tentorium cerebelli (Arnold). The ophthalmic nerve is frequently very intimately connected with a branch from the fourth nerve.