165 DISSECTIOK" OF THE HEART. between the aortic and the two auriculo-ventricular orifices (letter a in fig. 30). In some animals, as in the ox and the elephant, there is here an irregularly triangular bone, known as the 4 os cordis.' The relative position of these rings is best seen by removing the auricles and the great vessels at the base of the heart—leaving the several valves, and looking at them from above, as shown in the diagram. The pulmonary ring is on the highest level, and nearest to the sternum ; below it, is the aortic ring lying between and in front of the auriculo-ventricular rings, which are on the lowest level. Attachment of Tne nDr0US rings at tne arterial orifices present the Large Arte- three festoons with their concavities directed up- eies to the wards. These give attachment, above, to the middle coat of the artery ; below, to the muscular fibres of the heart; and, internally, to the fibrous tissue of the valves. The vessels are also connected to the heart by the serous layer of the pericardium, and by a continuation of the lining membrane of the ventricle. This smooth membrane lining1 the cavities of Endocardium, tit. T the heart resembles the visceral layer of the peri- cardium, and is continuous with the lining membrane of the blood-vessels. It may be easily stripped off, and is thin and semi-transparent, thicker in the left than in the right cavities, thickest of all in the left auricle. It consists of three layers: 1, a layer of flattened polygonal cells, resting upon, 2, some elastic fibres resembling the fenestrated coat of an artery, and, 3, a thin layer of connective tissue. Arrangement ^he muscular fibres of the heart are of the of the Muscular striped variety, but differ from ordinary striped Fibres of the muscular tissue, in being smaller, destitute of sarco- lemma, branched, nucleated, and involuntary. The fibres of the auricles are distinct from those of the ventricles. They consist of a superficial layer common to both cavities, and a deeper layer proper to each. The superficial fibres run transversely across the auricles, and are most marked on the anterior surface ; some pass into the septum. Of the deeper fibres, some are annu-