DISSECTION OP THE MALE PERINEUM. 417 distinguish it from a deeper and more powerful band of muscular fibres which surrounds the last inch or more of the rectum, and is situated next to the mucous membrane. Cutaneous The cutaneous vessels and nerves of the peri- Vessels and neum come from the internal pudic artery and Nerves. nerve, and chiefly from that branch of it called the superficialis perinei. This will be traced presently. The external or inferior hcemorrhoidal arteries, cross trans- versely through the ischio-rectal fossa, from the ramus of the ischium towards the anus. They come from the pudic (which may be felt on the inner side of the ischium), and running inwards, divide into numerous branches, which supply the rectum, levator ani, and sphincter ani. The nerve which accompanies the artery comes from the pudic, and supplies the sphincter ani and the skin of the perineum. The fourth sacral nerve emerges through the coccygeus close to the tip of the coccyx, and supplies the skin of the perineum between this bone and the anus. The inferior pudendal nerve comes through the muscular fascia of the thigh, a little above the tuber ischii, and ascends, dividing into filaments, which supply the front and outer part of the scrotum and perineum. It is a branch of the lesser ischiatic nerve, and communicates in front with the posterior branch of the superficial perineal nerve. Superficial The subcutaneous fascia of the perineum is Fascia of the composed of a superficial and a deep layer. The Perineum. superficial layer contains more or less fat, and is continuous with that of the scrotum, the thighs, and the posterior part of the perineum. The deeper layer is best demonstrated by blowing air beneath it with a blow-pipe; its connections are as follows:—It is attached on each side to the anterior lip of the ramus of the pubes and ischium ; traced forwards, it is directly continuous with the tunica dartos of the scrotum; traced back- wards, at the base of the urethral triangle, it is reflected beneath the transversus perinei muscle, and joins the deep perineal fascia or triangular ligament. These connections explain why urine, E E