'54 BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. 3. Tke middle sterno-mastoid, a small branch, variable as to origin, descends over the sheath of the carotid artery to the mastoid muscle. 4. The crico-thyroid, an artery of great interest in reference to the operation of laryngotomy, crosses the crico-thyroid membrane, and commu - nicates with a corresponding branch on the opposite side. (Fig. 8, p. 30.) One or two small branches pass through the membrane to the interior of the larynx. It is important to know that the crico-thyroid artery often varies in direction and size. In most cases it is small, and runs across the centre of the membrane ; we should therefore be least likely to wound it in laryngotomy, by dividing the membrane close to the cricoid cartilage. But it is by no means infrequent to find this artery of considerable size, taking an oblique or even a perpendicular direction in front of the mem- brane, and finally distributed to one of the lobes of the thyroid body. We have seen several instances in which the membrane was crossed by the main trunk of the superior thyroid. These facts should establish the practical rule in laryngotomy, not to make an opening into the larynx until it has been fairly exposed. Among the many arterial inosculations about the thyroid body are two which deserve notice : the one is formed between the two superior thyroid arteries along the upper border of the isthmus, the other takes place along the back part of the lateral lobe between the superior and inferior thyroid arteries of the same side. The superior thyroid vein crosses transversely the sheath of the common carotid, and joins the internal jugular. Superior The superior laryngeal nerve, mentioned as Laryngeal accompanying the superior laryngeal artery, is .Nerve, given off from the inferior ganglion of the pneumo- •gastric. It descends by the side of the pharynx, behind both carotid arteries, and divides into two branches, the internal and external laryngeal nerves. The internal branch enters the larynx through the thyro-hyoid membrane accompanied by the superior laryngeal artery, and supplies the mucous membrane of the larynx with its exquisite sensibility. Some of its branches may be traced upwards in the ary-epiglottidean fold to supply the epiglot- tis and base of the tongue; others descend to the rima glottidis; a large branch passes down behind the ala of the thyroid cartilage