394 KIDNEYS. to right, near the lower border and anterior surface of the gland, and empties itself into the back part of the descending portion of the duodenum, conjointly with, or close to, the opening of the common bile-duct. It receives numerous branches from the splenic artery, which runs along its upper border; some from the superior mesenteric, which lies immediately beneath it, and others from the gastro-duodenalis. Dissbc The liver, stomach, duodenum, pancreas, and spleen should now be collectively removed. For this purpose it is necessary to cut through the ligaments of the liver, the vensG cavse hepaticse, and the branches of the cceliac axis. These viscera, with the remainder of the intestinal canal, should be macerated in water, while you examine all that is to be seen at the back of the abdomen : namely, the deep-seated muscles, the aorta, the inferior vena cava, the kidneys, the lumbar plexus of nerves, and the sympathetic nerve. Kidneys and The kidneys are situated in the lumbar region, Ureter, Rela- behind the peritoneum, one on each side of the tions of. spine. They lie embedded in more or less fat, on the quadratus lumborum, the psoas, and the crura of the diaphragm. The right is somewhat the lower of the two. Surmounting each is a small body, called the supra-renal capsule. The excretory duct of the kidney, the ureter, descends almost vertically on the psoas muscle, enters the pelvis over the division of the common iliac artery, and empties itself into the lower part of the bladder after running obliquely through its coats. The right kidney is in contact, above, with the under surface of the liver, and its upper end reaches as high as the lower border of the eleventh rib; the left is in contact above with the spleen, and reaches to the level of the upper border of the eleventh rib. In front of the right kidney are the liver, the ascending colon, the descending portion of the duodenum, and the colica dextra artery; in front of the left, the descending colon, part of the spleen, the pancreas, and the colica sinistra artery. This explains how it is that a renal abscess or calculus is sometimes evacuated by the rectum.