PERITONEUM. 379 Situation of This body is situated at the top of the kidney. the Supra-renal It lies upon the cms of the diaphragm. You will Capsule. gee ^e right supra-renal capsule by lifting up the liver; the left, by lifting up the spleen and the great end of the stomach. Peritoneum. A certain range of motion being necessary to the abdominal viscera, they are provided with a serous membrane, called the peritoneum. This membrane, like other serous membranes, is a closed sac, one part of which lines the containing cavity, the other is reflected over the contained viscera. These are respectively termed the parietal and the visceral layers. In the female, however, it is not, strictly speaking, a closed sac, since it communicates with the cavity of the uterus through the Fallopian tubes. The internal surface of the peritoneum is smooth and polished, and lined by squamous endothelium: the external surface, the sub-peritoneal tissue, is composed of areolar tissue which connects the internal layer to the invested viscus or ab- dominal parietes. There is nothing between the parietal and the visceral layers—in other words, inside the sac—but just sufficient moisture to lubricate its smooth and polished surface. The viscera are all, more or less, outside the sac; some lie altogether behind it, as the pancreas, kidneys, and supra-renal capsules; others, as the lower parts of the duodenum, caecum, ascending and descending colon, are only partially covered by it; while others, as the stomach, liver, jejunum, ileum, and some parts of the large intestine, are completely invested by it:. these latter push the visceral layer before them, and so give rise to membranous folds; the larger the fold, the freer is the mobility of the viscus which occasions it. Course of the Now trace the peritoneum as a continuous Peritoneum. membrane. Since the peritoneum is a perfect sac, it matters not where we begin : we must come back to the starting- point. If a longitudinal section be made through the viscera in the middle of the body, one can trace the peritoneum thus—beginning at the diaphragm, and taking, for brevity's sake, two layers at a time (fig. 77).