MUSCLES ON THE FRONT OF THE LEG. 527 becomes stronger as it approaches the ankle, to form the liga- ments which confine the tendons in this situation. Of these liga- ments, called annular', there are three, as follows :— a. The anterior annular extends obliquely,across the front of the ankle-joint, and confines the extensor tendons of the ankle and toes. It consists of two converging straps, which join, and are continued on as a common band, like the letter placed trans- versely. The common band is attached to the external malleolus, cuboid and os calcis: it is continued horizontally inwards, and in front of the ankle splits into two fasciculi ; the upper is attached to the tibia; the lower into the scaphoid and internal cunei- form. It is the strain of this ligament which occasions the pain in sprains of the ankle. You will see presently that it makes a pulley for the extensor longus digitorum. b. The external annular extends from the outer malleolus to the os calcis, and confines the tendons of the peronei muscles, which draw the foot outwards. c. The internal annular is ill defined, and extends from the inner malleolus to the os calcis, and binds down the flexor tendons of the foot and toes. Eemove the fascia, leaving enough of the annular ligaments to retain the tendons in their places. Mvscles on The muscles on the front of the leg are:—1, the Front of the tibialis anticus; 2, the extensor longus digi- ts Leg. torum and peroneus tertius; 3, the extensor proprius pollicis. Tibialis The tibialis anticus arises from the external Anticus. tuberosity and the upper two-thirds of the outer side of the tibia, from the interosseous membrane, from the fascia which covers it, and from that which separates it from the next muscle. About the lower third of the leg the fibres termi- nate on a strong flat tendon, which descends obliquely over the front of the ankle to the inner side of the foot; here it becomes a little broader, and is inserted into the internal cuneiform bone and the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The synovial membrane, which lines the sheath of the tendon beneath