65 BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. tubercle is the best guide to the artery. It is necessary to divide a layer of fascia which immediately covers the vessel before the needle can be introduced around it. Mr. Kamsden, of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, was the first who tied the subclavian in the third part of its course, in the year 1809 ; since that time the operation has been repeatedly performed, with very favourable results. In the hands of a surgeon possessed of a practical knowledge of anatomy the operation is easy, provided all circumstances be favourable; but circumstances are often very unfavourable. It often happens that the aneurysmal or other tumour, on account of which the operation is performed, raises the clavicle beyond its natural level, and so disturbs the parts, that to expose the artery and place a ligature around it becomes exceedingly difficult. Under such circumstances one cannot be surprised that even distinguished anatomists have committed mistakes. Sir Astley Cooper * failed in one instance. Dupuytren perforated the artery with the point of the needle, and included one of the nerves in the ligature: fatal haemorrhage was the result.f We were present at an operation in which the large nerve (a branch of the brachial plexus) which runs parallel with and on a plane anterior to the artery was mistaken for it and tied; the surgeon being deceived by the pulsation communicated to the nerve. Branches of ^e branches 0i> the subclavian extend so widely, the Subclavian that in the present dissection we can trace them only Artery. for a short distance. They are four in number : 1. The vertebral. 2. The thyroid axis, a short thick trunk which gives off the inferior thyroid, supra-scapular, and posterior scapular. 3. The internal mammary. 4. The superior intercostal, which gives off the deep cervical. As a rule, the vertebral, the thyroid axis, and the internal mammary are given off from the subclavian in the first part of * 'London Medical Review,' vol. ii. p. 300. f 'Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal,' vol. xvi. 1820. F