408 LUMBAR PLEXUS. ganglia. It receives the splanchnic nerves, and some branches from the pneumogastric nerves; and it gives off filaments which surround the various branches of the abdominal aorta, the plexuses thus formed taking the name of the arteries they accompany. The semilunar ganglia are situated, one on each-side of the coeliac axis, and internal to the supra-renal capsules. These ganglia have been described (p. 395). The plexuses connected with these nervous centres are,—the dia- phragmatic, the superior mesenteric, the supra-renal, the renal, the spermatic, the coronary hepatic and splenic, the aortic, and the inferior mesenteric. Hypogastric The hypogastric plexus is Situated between the Plexus. common iliac arteries, on the last lumbar vertebrae and the sacrum. It consists of an intricate interlacement of sympathetic filaments, which pass down into the pelvis, for the supply of the pelvic viscera. Although this plexus is so in- tricate, it presents no distinct ganglia. As it passes down it receives branches from some of the spinal nerves, but mainly from the third and fourth sacral nerves'. From this large plexus are derived secondary plexuses, which ramify around branches of the internal iliac artery: thus there are, the inferior hemorrhoidal plexus, the vesical, the uterine, the ovarian, the prostatic, and the vaginal; all of which send filaments which accompany the smallest branches of the arteries. Lumbar The lumbar plexus is formed by the union Plexus of 0f the anterior branches of the four upper lum- Nerves. bar nerves. The fifth does not enter into the formation of this plexus, but joins the sacral plexus under the name of the lumbo-sacral cord. The plexus lies over the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebras, embedded in the substance of the psoas,, so that this, muscle must be dissected away before the plexus can be seen. Like the brachial plexus, the nerves com- posing it successively increase in size from above. Its branches are five in number, and arise in the following order (fig. 86). a. The first lumbar nerve generally divides into two branches;