SUPRA-SCAPULAR ARTERY. 315 inserted into a tendinous arch, which is chiefly attached to the inferior angle. The action of these muscles is to draw the scapula upwards and backwards. They are the antagonists of the serratus magnus. The nerve of the rhomboid muscles (posterior scapular) is a branch of the fifth cervical, It passes outwards beneath the lower part of the levator anguli scapulae, to which it sends a branch, and is lost in the under surface of the rhomboidei. This muscle extends from the scapula to the Omo-htoideus. . , . . os hyoides, and consists 01 two long narrow mus- cular portions, connected by an intermediate tendon beneath the sterno-mastoid. The posterior portion only can be seen in the present dissection. It arises from the upper border of the scapula, close behind the notch, and from the ligament above the notch. Thence the slender muscle passes forwards across the lower part of the neck, beneath the sterno-mastoid, where it changes its direc- tion and ascends nearly vertically, to be attached to the os hyoides at the junction of the body with the greater cornu (p. 29). Thus the two portions of the muscle form, beneath the sterno-mastoid, an obtuse angle, of which the apex is tendinous, and of which the angular direction is maintained by a layer of fascia, proceeding from the tendon to the first rib and the clavicle. Its action is to depress the os hyoides. Its nerve comes from the descendens noni (p. 30). Supra-scapu- This artery (transversalis humeri), a branch of larAeteet. the thyroid axis (p. 67), runs behind and parallel with the clavicle, over the lower end of the scalenus anticus to the upper border of the scapula, where it usually passes above the ligament bridging over the notch. It ramifies in the supra- spinous fossa, supplying the supra-spinatus, and then passes under the acromion to the infra-spinous fossa, where it inosculates freely with the dorsalis scapulae, a branch of the subscapular. It sends off— a. The supra-acromial branch, which ramifies upon the acromion, anastomosing with the other acromial arteries derived from branches of the axillary; b. a small subscapular branch to the fossa of the same