39 CENTRAL LINE OP THE NECK. They form an uninterrupted chain (whence their name glandules concatenatce), from the base of the skull, along the side of the neck, to the clavicle, beneath which they are continuous with the thoracic and the axillary glands. Some of these glands lie anterior to the common carotid artery; others, between it and the spine. This disposition explains the well-known fact, that, when these glands are enlarged, the great vessels and nerves of the neck are liable to become imbedded in their substance. The glands are particularly numerous near the division of the common carotid, by the side of the pharynx, and the posterior belly of the digastricus. The lymphatics connected with them come from all parts of the head and neck. These vessels unite, to form, on both sides of the neck, one or more absorbent trunks, called the jugular. On the left side this jugular trunk joins the thoracic duct, or opens by a separate orifice into the left subclavian vein : on the right it always opens into the subclavian vein. The contiguity of the glands to the great vessels and nerves of the neck explains the symptoms produced by their enlargement. The tumour may be so situated as to be raised and depressed by the pulsation of the carotid, and thus simulate an aneurysm. A careful examination, however, will distinguish between an inher- ent and a communicated pulsation. By grasping the tumour we become sensible that the pulsation does not depend upon any variation of its magnitude, but upon the impulse derived from the artery; consequently, if the tumour be lifted from the vessel, all feeling of pulsation ceases. Survey of the The parts in the central line of the neck should Central Line of now be well studied (fig. 8, p. 30). Beginning the Neck. at the chin, we observe the insertions of the digastric muscles. Below these is the junction, or raj^he^of the mylo-hyoid muscles. Then comes the os hyoides. " Below the os hyoides is the thyro-hyoid membrane, attached above to the upper border of the hyoid bone, and below to the thyroid cartilage. Next is the pomum Adami, or projection of the thyroid cartilage, which is apparent between the contiguous borders of the sterno- hyoidei. Below the thyroid cartilage is the cricoid. These two