MUSCLES OF THE ARM. 277 is half bent, because its tendon is then inserted at a right angle. Why does the long tendon pass through the shoulder-joint? It acts like a strap", and confines the head of the humerus in its proper centre of motion. But for this tendon, the head of the bone, when the deltoid acts, would be pulled directly upwards and strike ngainst the under surface of the acromion. When the tendon is ruptured, or dislocated from its groove, a man can move his arm backwards and forwards, but he cannot raise the smallest weight.* The biceps is supplied with blood by a branch from the brachial, which runs into the middle of its inner side and divides into ascending and descending branches, Its nerve comes from the musculo-cutaneous. Coraco-bea- This thin muscle is situated at the upper part chialts. of the arm, and runs parallel to the inner border of the short head of the biceps. It arises by fleshy fibres from the point of the coracoid process, in common with the short head of the biceps, and from a fibrous septum yvhich lies between them. The muscle terminates on a flat tendon, which is inserted into the inner side of the middle of the humerus, between the brachialis anticus and the inner head of the triceps. Its action is to draw the humerus forwards and inwards—e.g. in bringing the gun up to the shoulder. It is supplied by a branch from the musculo-cuta- neous nerve which passes through it. Concerning the coraco-brachialis remember, 1. That the mus- culo-cutaneous nerve runs through it; 2. That its inner fleshy border is the guide to the axillary artery in the last part of its course ; 3. That the brachial artery lies upon its flat tendon of insertion, and can here be effectually compressed by the tinge}- or the tourniquet. The coraco-brachialis and biceps are covered at their uppej part by the deltoid and pectoralis major. The head of the humerus rolls beneath the coraco-brachialis and short origin of the biceps; and a large bursa is interposed between these mus< Les and the tendon of the subscapularis, which covers the head of the bone. * See a preparation in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, ser. v. 9.