312 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF THE BACK, The fixed point of the muscle being at the vertebral column, all its fibres tend to raise the shoulder. The deltoid cannot raise the humerus beyond an angle of ninety degrees: beyond this, the elevation of the arm is principally effected by the rotatory move- ment of the scapula. The trapezius is in strong action when a weight is borne upon the shoulders; again, its middle and inferior fibres act powerfully in drawing the scapula backwards, as in preparing to strike a blow. If both muscles act, they draw the head backwards; if one only acts, it draws the head to the same side. It is supplied by the nervus accessorius and the cervical plexus, and by the superficialis colli artery. Latissimus This broad flat muscle occupies the lumbar and Dorsi. lower dorsal region, and thence extends to the arm, where it forms part of the posterior boundary of the axilla. It arises from the posterior third of the external lip of the crest of the ilium, from the spinous processes of the two upper sacral, all the lumbar and the six lower dorsal vertebra?, by a strong aponeurosis; and, lastly, from the three or four lower ribs by fleshy slips, which interdigitate with those of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. All the fibres converge towards the axilla, where they form a thick muscle, which curves round the inferior angle of the scapula, and is inserted by a broad, flat tendon, into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus. The tendon is about two inches broad, and lies in front of and higher than that of the teres major, from which it is separated by a large bursa* It is supplied mainly by the long subscapular nerve, also by the posterior branches of the dorsal and lumbar nerves. The latissimus dorsi draws the humerus inwards and back- wards ; rotating it also inwards. It co-operates with the pectoralis major in pulling any object towards the body: if the humerus be the fixed point, it raises the body, as in climbing. The object of the muscle arising so high up the back is, that the transverse fibres of the muscle may strap down the inferior angle of the scapula. It sometimes happens that the scapula slips above the * The latissimus dorsi frequently receives a distinct accessory slip from the inferior angle of the scapula.