29 DEPRESSORS OF THE OS HTOIDES. os hyoides; namely, the sterno-kyoid,sterno-thyroid, omo-hyoid, and thyro-hyoid.* Remove the fascia which covers them, disturbing them as little as possible, and take care of the nerves (branches of the descendens noni), which enter their outer borders. The sterno-hyoid arises from the back part of Sternohyoid. .. , . ' . , . , .. the sternum and posterior sterno-clavicular liga- ment, and occasionally from the clavicle and cartilage of the first rib, and is inserted into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides. This is the most superficial of the muscles in front of the neck. We cut in the mesial line between these muscles in laryngotomy. Stkrno- The sterno-thyroid arises from the back part of rHTRoiD. the sternum, below and internal to the origin of the sterno-hyoid, and the cartilage of the first rib, and is inserted into the oblique ridge on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. This muscle is situated immediately under, and is much broader than, the sterno-hyoid. The two sterno-hyoid muscles converge as they ascend to their insertions, and opposite the cricoid cartilage and the two or three upper rings of the trachea they are in contact with one another. The sterno-thyroid, however, diverge to their insertions, but are in contact below, the result of which is that the trachea is completely covered in front by muscular fibres. 0 The omo-hyoid arises from the upper border of the scapula, and from the ligament over the notch, and is inserted into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides near the great cornu. This muscle consists of two fleshy portions connected by a tendon. From the scapula it comes nearly horizontally forwards across the lower part of the neck, and passes beneath the sterno-mastoid, over the sheath of the Sfreat vessels of the neck ; then, changing its direction, it ascends nearly vertically close to the outer border of the sterno-hyoid. * The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles often present slight transverse tendinous lines. These tendinous intersections are quite rudimentary in man; hut in some animals with loDg necks, e.g. the giraffe, they are so developed that each de- pressor muscle is composed of alternations of muscle and tendon.