300 PALM OF THE HAND. Superficial The ulnar artery, having passed over the annular Palmar Arch. ligament, near the pisiform bone, describes a curve across the upper part of the palm, beneath the palmar fascia, towards the thumb, and, gradually diminishing in size, inosculates with the superficialis volse, and very commonly with a branch from the arteria radialis indicis, to form the superficial 'palmar arch. The curve of the arch is directed towards the fingers, its greatest convexity descending as low as a horizontal line drawn across the junction of the upper with the middle third of the palm. In its passage over the annular ligament, the artery lies in the furrow, between the pisiform and unciform bones, and is protected by an expansion from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the palmaris longus. The ulnar nerve lies close to the inner side of the artery, both being covered by the palmaris brevis. In the palm, the artery rests for a short distance upon the muscles of the little finger, then it lies upon the superficial flexor tendons and the divisions of the ulnar and median nerves; and is covered by the palmar fascia. Branches of Immediately below the pisiform bone, the ulnar the Ulnar Ar- artery gives off the ulnaris profunda, which sinks tery in the deeply into the palm, between the abductor and flexor 'Palm' brevis minimi digiti, to form the deep palmar arch, by joining the terminal branch of the radial artery. It is accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. From the concavity of the arch small recurrent branches ascend to the carpus, and inosculate with the other carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. Four digital arteries arise from the convexity of the arch. They supply all the fingers, except the radial side of the index finger. The first descends over the muscles on the inner side of the palm, to the ulnar side of the little finger, along which it runs to the apex. The second, third, and fourth descend nearly vertically between the tendons, in a line with the clefts between the fingers, and, about half an inch above the clefts, each divides into two branches, which proceed along the opposite sides of the fingers nearly to the end of the last phalanges, where they unite to form an arch with the convexity towards the end of the finger; from this arch numerous branches supply the papillae at the tip of the finger,