BRACHIAL ARTERY. 2S1 Lth the musculo-spiral nerve to the outer side of the arm, where it perforates the external intermuscular septum. It then descends deep in the fissure between the brachialis anticus and supinator radii longus, and terminates in numerous ramifications, some of which pass in front of the external condyle, others behind it, to inosculate with the radial and inter-, osseous recurrent arteries. Before its division, the superior profunda sends several branches the triceps, some of which inosculate with the circumflex. These assist in establishing a collateral circulation when the brachial artery is ligatured above the origin of the profunda. h. The profunda inferior arises from the brachial, opposite to the \\ sertion of the coraco-brachialis, or sometimes by a common trunk witl the superior profunda. It runs with the ulnar nerve on the inne head of the triceps (which it supplies), passes through the internal inte'r- muscular septum, and then descends to the interval between the internal condyle and the olecranon, inosculating with the posterior ulnar recurrent •and anastomotica magna arteries. 7 The nutrient artery of the humerus arises sometimes from the brachial, sometimes from the inferior profunda. It pierces the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, runs obliquely downwards through the bone, and in the medullary canal divides into ascending and descending branches, which anastomose with the nutrient vessels of the bone derived from the peri- osteum. c. The anastomotica rnaana arisesfrom the inner side of the brachial, about two inches above the elbow, j.'uns tortuously jnwards across the j^Lachialis anticus, and divides into branches, some of which pass in front of the internal condyle, anastomosing with the anterior ulnar recurrent artery; others pass behind the internal condyle and anastomose with the inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries; and one branch forms an arch, above the olecranon fossa, with the superior profunda. d. Numerous muscular branches arise from the outer side of the brachial artery; one of these, the bicipital, more constant than the rest, supplies the biceps; another runs transversely beneath the coraco- brachialis and biceps, over the insertion of the deltoid, supplying this muscle and the brachialis anticus. The two veins which accompany the brachial "V^ENJE COjMITES , artery are continuations of the deep radial and ulnar veins. The internal is usually the larger, and generally receives the veins corresponding to the principa branches of the