RADIAL ARTERY. 291 v . • ' trapezium ; and, lastly, passing between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, it enters the palm to form the deep palmar arch. It is accompanied by two veins, which communicate at frequent intervals, and join the venae comites of the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow. In the middle third of its course the artery is accompanied by the radial nerve (a branch of the musculo-spiral), which lies to its outer side. Below this point, the nerve leaves the artery, and passes, under "The tendon of the supinator longus, to the back of flie hand. Thus, in the situation where the pulse is usually felt, the radial nerve no longer accompanies the artery ; nevertheless, the vessel is not without a nerve, for it is accompanied by a branch of the musculo-cutaneous (or external cutaneous), which lies superficial to it. The radial artery sends off in the forearm the following branches, besides offsets, which supply the muscles on the outer side of the forearm. a. The radial recurrent, is given off just below the elbow ; it ascends to supply the long and short supinators and the two radial extensors. One of its ramifications runs up with the rnusculo-spiral nerve between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus, and forms a delicate inoscula- tion with the superior profunda (p. 280). b. The arteria superficialis voice arises from the radial, about half an inch, or more, above the lower end of the radius : it runs over the an- terior annular ligament, above, or perhaps through, the origin of the muscles of the ball of the thumb, into the palm of the hand, where it inosculates with the superficial branch of the ulnar, and completes the superficial palmar arch.* c. The anterior carpal artery is a small branch of the radial, which runs beneath the tendons, and supplies the anterior surface of the synovial membrane and bones of the carpus, anastomosing with the anterior^ inter- osseous, the anterior carpal br anch of the ulnar, and the recurrent carpal branch of the deep palmar arch. * There is great variety in the size and origin of the superficialis volae; some- times it is very large, arises higher than usual, and runs to the wrist parallel with the radial; sometimes it is very small, terminating in the muscles of the thumb; or it may be absent. u 2