DISSECTION OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 651 nerve. The inner wall presents the following objects, beginning from above : 1. A ridge, indicating the line of the aqueductus Fallopii ; 2. The fenestra ovalis, which leads into the vestibule, but is closed in the recent state by a membrane, to which is attached the base of the stapes ; 3. Below the fenestra ovalis is a bony prominence, the promontory ; it is occasioned by the first turn of the cochlea, and is marked by grooves, in which lie the branches of the tympanic plexus of nerves; 4. Below and behind this, is the fenestra rotunda ; it leads into the scala tympani of the cochlea, but is closed in the recent state by membrane ; 5. Immediately behind the fenestra ovalis, is a small conical eminence, named the pyramid, in the summit of which is a small aperture, from which the tendon of the stapedius emerges. The posterior wall presents three or four openings, which lead into the mastoid cells, and convey air into them from the tympanum ; also a small foramen, foramen chordce posterius, for the passage of the chorda tympani nerve. The anterior tuall leads to the Eustachian tube, and (in the dry bone) to the canal for the tensor tympani, which are separated from each other by a bony septum, the processus cochleariformis. Lastly, a nerve called the chorda tympani (a branch of the portio dura) runs across the cavity, covered by mucous membrane. Membrana The membrana tympani is a thin semi- Tympani. transparent disk which completely closes the bottom of the meatus auditorius externus. It is nearly circular, and its circumference is set in a bony groove, so that it is stretched, somewhat like the parchment of a drum, on the outer wall of the tympanum. Its plane is not vertical, but slants from above down- wards, forming, with the floor of the meatus, an angle of 55°. It is slightly conical, the apex being directed inwards towards the tympanum, and between its layers is inserted the handle of the malleus. It is composed of three layers : an outer, formed by an extremely thin layer of true skin ; an inner, by the mucous membrane of the tympanum ; and a middle layer, consisting of fibrous tissue ; some of the fibres radiate from the centre, others are circular, forming a circumferential ring close to the osseous