20 CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE NECK. The size of the anterior jugular vein is inversely proportionate to that of the external jugular. When the external jugular is small, or terminates in the internal jugular, then the anterior jugular becomes an important supplemental vein, and attains con- siderable size. It is not uncommon to find it a quarter of an inch in diameter, and we have seen it nearly half an inch. These varieties should be remembered in tracheotomy. Superficial lymphatic glands are sometimes found near the cutaneous veins of the neck. They are small, and escape observa- tion unless enlarged by disease. One or two are situated over the sterno-mastoid muscle ; others, near the mesial line. Cutaneous cutaneous nerves of the neck are the super- Nertes of the ficial branches of the cervical plexus: the plexus Neck. itself cannot at present be seen. It lies under the sterno-mastoid muscle, close to the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrse, and is formed by the communications of the anterior divisions of the four upper cervical nerves. The cutaneous branches of the plexus emerge from beneath the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and take different directions. They are named thus (fig. 6): 'Ascending branches. . . . j Auriculo-parotidean. {Small occipital. Cutaneous branches of . Transverse branch .... Superficial cervical. Sternal. the cervical plexus. Descending branches Clavicular. Acromial. The auriculo-parotidean n. comes from the second and third cervical nerves, and ascends obliquely over the sterno-mastoid muscle, near the external jugular vein, towards the parotid gland. Near the gland it divides into two principal branches, of which the anterior or facial branch is distributed to the skin over the parotid gland, and the side of the cheek; the posterior, after ascending a short distance, gives off an auri- cular branch, which ramifies mainly upon the cranial aspect of the cartilage of the ear; and a smaller branch, the mastoid, which supplies the skin over the mastoid process. Other filaments of this nerve commu- nicate in the substance of the parotid gland with branches of the facial nerve.