412 RECTO-VESICAL POUCH. Contents of The male pelvis contains the last part of the the Male Pelvis, intestinal canal, named the rectum, the bladder with the prostate gland at the neck, and the vesiculae seminales. If the bladder be empty, some of the small intestine will be'in the pelvis ; not so if the bladder be distended. Course of The rectum enters the pelvis on the left side the Rectum. of the sacrum, and, after describing a curve cor- responding with the concavity of the sacrum, terminates at the anus. In the first part of its course, it is loosely connected to the back of the pelvis by a peritoneal fold, called the meso- rectum : between the layers of this fold, the superior hsemor- rhoidal vessels, the continuation of the inferior mesenteric, with nerves and lymphatics, runs to the bowel. The rectum does not take this course in all cases; sometimes it makes one, or even two lateral curves. In some rare cases it enters the pelvis on the right side instead of the left. Since these variations from the usual arrangement cannot be ascertained during life, they should make us cautious in the introduction of bougies.* Recto-vesical Whilst the parts are still undisturbed, intro- Pouch. duce the finger into the recto-vesical .peri- toneal pouch (fig. 87). This is a cul-de-sac formed by the peritoneum in passing from the front of the rectum to the lower and back part of the bladder. In the adult male, the bottom of this pouch is about one inch distant from the base of the prostate glandrf* therefore part of the under surface of the bladder is not covered by peritoneum; and since this part is in immediate contact with the rectum, it is • practicable to tap the distended bladder through the front of the bowel without injuring the peritoneum. The operation has, of late children, its capacity is small; and the viscera, which subsequently belong- to it, are situated in the abdomen. * In old age the rectum has sometimes a zigzag appearance immediately above the anus. These lateral inclinations are probably produced by the enormous disten- sions to which the bowel has been occasionally subjected. f The bottom of the pouch is from three to four inches distant from, the anus,