POPLITEAL VESSELS. 552- lies upon the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and, lastly, upon the popliteus. At its lower part the artery is covered by the gastrocnemius and is crossed by the plantaris. The vein closely accompanies the artery, and is situated superficially with regard to it, and rather to its outer side in the first part of its course. The internal popliteal nerve runs also in a similar direction with the vein, but is still more superficial and to the outer side (fig. 125). The vessels and the nerve are surrounded by fat, and one or two lymphatic glands are generally found in the immediate neighbour- hood of the artery, just above the joint. The branches of the popliteal artery are the articular and the sural. There are five articular branches for the supply of the knee-joint and the articular ends of the bone : the two superior—external and internal— run, one above each condyle, close to the bone; the two inferior—exter- nal and internal—run below the joint. 1. The superior external articular artery runs above the external condyle, passes beneath the biceps, and through the intermuscular septum : it then divides into a superficial and a deep branch; the super- ficial supplies the vastus externus, and then forms part of the patellar arterial plexus; the deep branch keeps close to the femur and supplies the joint. 2. The superior internal articular artery runs above the internal condyle, under the tendon of the adductor magnus and vastus internus, and divides into two branches, a superficial and a deep, which take a corresponding course to those on the outer side. 3. The inferior external articular artery runs under the gastrocne- mius, over the popliteus, then, passing beneath the external lateral ligament and the tendon of the biceps, it reaches the patella, where it breaks up into branches anastomosing with the other articular arteries. 4. The inferior internal articular artery runs between the tuberosity of the tibia and the internal lateral ligament, and supplies the inner and anterior part of the joint. 5. The azygos artery is given off from the deep aspect of the popliteal, pierces the ligamentum posticum Winslowii, to supj>ly the crucial ligaments and the synovial membrane. The several articular arteries form over the front and sides of the joint a network of vessels which anastomose, superiorly, with the descending