ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. 512 the femoral artery, varies from one and a half to four and a half inches below Poupart's ligament; so that no rule can be laid down as to the exact situation where the artery disappears beneath the sartorius. The best way to find the inner border of the muscle during life, is to make the patient put it in action. Adductor A strong group of muscles, called the addwctors, Muscles. extends along the inner side of the thigh, from the pelvis to the femur. Their two most important actions are to co-operate in balancing the pelvis steadily on the thigh, as in standing on one leg; and (if the fixed point be reversed) to draw together or adduct the thighs, at the same time rotating the thigh externally. They are five in number, and are supplied, with one exception—the pectineus—by the same nerve—namely, the obturator. They are termed, respectively, the gracilis, ad- ductor longus, pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor ma gnus. The innermost is the gracilis ; to clean it properly, it should be stretched by separating one thigh from the other. p This long, flat muscle arises by a broad, ribbon- vxRACITjIS* like tendon from the pubes close to the symphysis, and from the border of the pubic arch nearly as low as the tuber ischii. It descends almost perpendicularly on the inner side of the thigh, and terminates in a round tendon which subsequently spreads out, and is inserted into the inner side of the tibia below the tubercle, immediately behind the sartorius and above the semi- tendinous. The tendon plays over the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and there is a bursa to diminish friction. This muscle assists in fixing the pelvis, and in adducting the thigh ; it further helps to bend the knee. Its nerve comes from the anterior division of the obturator. Adductor This triangular muscle lies between the gracilis, Longus. anc[ the pectineus, and arises by a round tendon from the front of the body of the pubes below the crest. As it descends, the muscle becomes broader, and is inserted into the middle third of the inner margin of the linea aspera of the femur. It forms with the sartorius the triangular space called Scarpa's triangle, above described. It rests upon the adductor brevis and