MENINGEAL ARTERIES. 12 Meningeal These arteries ramify between the skull and the Arteries. dura mater. Their course may be traced by the grooves which they make in the bones. They are termed anterior, 'middle, and posterior, from the fossse in which they ramify. The anterior meningeal are derived from the ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic artery, and supply the dura mater in the neighbourhood of the ethmoid bone. The middle meningeal are three in number : the most important is the arteria meningea media, a branch of the internal maxillary artery. It enters the skull through the foramen spinosum, and divides into two principal branches ; one runs in a groove near the anterior border of the parietal bone, the other curves backwards over the temporal bone, and subsequently ramifies on the parietal bone. This artery gives off a small branch—the petrosal, which enters the hiatus Fallopii and anastomoses with the stylomastoid artery in the aquseductus Fallopii; and one or more anastomosing branches which enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure to communicate with the ophthalmic artery. It is accompanied by two veins which empty themselves into the internal maxillary vein. The arteria meningea parva, which enters the skull through the foramen ovale, and a meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery, which comes up through the foramen lacerum medium, also supply the dura mater and bones of the middle fossa. The posterior meningeal come from the occipital and the vertebral arteries; these enter the skull through the foramen jugulare and the foramen magnum, respectively. The position of the meningeal arteries renders them liable to injury in fractures of the skull; hence extravasation of blood between the skull and dura mater is one of the common causes of compression of the brain. ^ The student should now examine the cranial Dissection. . _ . nerves as they pass out through the ioramma m the base of the skull, and then dissect the cavernous sinus. Exit of the The cranial nerves proceed in pairs through the Cranial Nerves. foramina at the base of the skull; they are named occipital, and that of the straight sinus. The term toroular is an incorrect version of the original word auXrju (a canal or gutter), employed by Herophilus.