URETHRA. 453 sory in some way to generation. They are found in all mam- malia, and in some—e.g. the mole—they increase in size periodically with the testicle. The urethra is the canal which extends from TXrethra * the bladder to the end of the penis, and serves not only as the outlet for the urine, but to transmit the secretion of the testicles and the several glands accessory to generation. It is surrounded by different structures in different parts of its course. The first inch, or thereabouts, is surrounded by the prostate gland (p. 433); the second inch, which passes under the pubic arch, is surrounded by the compressor urethrse (p. 433); the remainder of its course along the penis is surrounded by erectile tissue, termed corpus spongiosum. Hence it is divided into the prostatic, the membranous? and the spongy parts. The length of the whole is about seven or eight inches, but this varies according to the condition of the penis. The direction of the urethra, when the penis hangs flaccid, is like the letter S reversed; but if the penis be held straight, the canal forms only one curve through the pubic arch, with the con- cavity upwards. The degree of this curvature varies at different periods of life. In the child, the bladder being more an abdominal than a pelvic viscus, the curve forms part of a much smaller circle than in the adult; but it gradually widens as age increases, and catheters are shaped accordingly.* However, the parts, when in a sound state, will yield sufficiently to admit the introduction of a straight instrument into the bladder. A straight staff is sometimes used in lithotomy. In its contracted state, the sides of the urethra are in close apposition; the appearance it presents on a transverse section differs in the different parts of its course. Through the glans it is flattened vertically; through the prostate it is crescentic, with the convexity upwards, owing to the veru montanum. But * The sharper curve of the urethra in the child was well known to Camper. ' In recenter natis, vesica basi sua elatius sita, pedetentim clescendit, unde necessario se- quitur curvaturam urethrse majorem esse in junioribus quam in adultis.'—' Demon. Anat. Pathol.' lib. ii. p. 13.