INCLUDING l^ORDI^DS of<^ODGf\R T^CIPeS.22101449367Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28079243PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER’S GUIDEADVERTISEMENTS. BROWN & POLSON’S CORN FLOUR. ^ SILVER MEDAL Was awarded for the following Original Receipt at the COOKERY COMPETITION Held June 1890, in the WESTMINSTER TOWN HALL. MOCHA CORN FLOUR CAKE. Ingredients. 4 Eggs. J lb. Castor Sugar. J lb. Brown and Poison’s Corn Flour. 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder. Grease a round shallow cake tin with clarified butter. Separate the whites from the yolks of the four eggs, add the castor sugar to the yolks, and beat them well together for ten minutes. Mix the baking powder with the flour, and stir in gradually to the sugar and yolks. Add a pinch of salt or castor sugar to the whites of the eggs, and whip to a stiff froth, then stir in lightly to the mixture, pour into cake tin, and bake in a quick oven for twenty-five minutes. When done, turn it out on to a wire sieve, or rear it up so as to allow the steam to escape, to prevent it from getting heavy. When thoroughly cold, ice, and decorate as follows :— Ingredients for Icing. 1 lb. Icing Sugar. \ lb. Fresh Butter. 1 tablespobnful of Essence of Coftee. If the icing sugar is lumpy, pound it in a mortar, then rub it through a wire sieve. Put the butter into a basin, and work it with a wooden spoon for a few minutes. Add to it, a little at a time, the icing sugar, and beat to a smooth cream ; then stir in gradually the coffee essence. When the cake is ready to ice, cut the top of it quite even, and coat it round the sides with the icing mixture with a palette knife, occasionally dipping the knife in hot water, so as to make the surface smooth ; then ice the top of the cake in the same manner. Put the remainder of the icing into a forcing bag, with a rose forcer, and decorate according to taste. This is a very delicious cake to serve with coffee, much used in Paris. For other recipes see Packets.THE Pastrycook & Confectioners’ GUIDE FOR HOTELS, RESTAURANTS, AND THE TRADE IN GENERAL ADAPTED ALSO FOR FAMILY USE Unclufctng a Harp Farietg of itflotan 3fUcfpes FOR i BREAD—CAKES-FANCY BISCUITS—ICE CREAMS AND WATER ICES — JELLIES — PIES, PUDDINGS, AND CUSTARDS — JOINTS—MEAT PIES AND DISHES—POULTRY AND GAME — ORNAMENTAL SUGAR WORK &> BUTTER-WORK, ETC. WITH USEFUL HINTS AND INSTRUCTIONS By ROBERT WELLS PRACTICAL BAKER, CONFECTIONER, AND PASTRYCOOK AUTHOR OF THE “ BREAD AND BISCUIT BAKER’S AND SUGAR BOILER’S ASSISTANT ” geconb ^bitiort, ^femseb LONDON CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON 7, STATIONERS’ HALL COURT, LUDGATE HILL 1892 [All rights reserved](ii) AD VERTISEMENTS. vwf ‘ 'X'MF INSTITUTE1 UNIFORM WITH THIS WORK, BY THE SAME AUTHOR. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. THE BREAD & BISCUIT BAKERS AND SUGAR BOILER’S ASSISTANT, Jjr.cxmb (Edition, toith ^Ibiiiiunal Recipes. “Plenty of useful and valuable information.”—Practical Con- fectioner. “ Just-the very thing for a master baker to have in his possession for constant reference.”—British Journal of Catering. , Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. The MODERN FLOUR CONFECTIONER, WHOLESALE & RETAIL, Containing a Large Selection of Recipes for Cheap Cakes, Biscuits, etc. ; also Recipes for Dainties for the Working Man's Table. “ About the best little book that has come out for a long time. . . . We especially recommend it to those caterers who make their own cakes, etc.”—Temperance Caterer and Refreshment News. “ Provides the ‘ small goods ’ trade with many valuable hints, ideas, and recipes that will prove useful to any practical baker.”—Scotsman. ALSO BY THE SAME AUTHOR. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth, gilt. DESIGNS FOR ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY: A BOOK OF INSTRUCTION AND ILLUSTRATION FOR THE HIGHER BRANCHES OF THE ART. SSEith 129 ©riginal Resigns spmallg pvrparrh fur this S&lork. “Should be in the hands of every baker and confectioner. The illustrative designs are alone worth treble the amount charged for the whole work.”—Bakers' Times. “ All members of the confectionery craft who desire to devote themselces to the higher branches of confectionery work should procure this ably-written and excellent work,”—People's Friend. CqF we - !V! 0 mec Crosby Lockwood & Son, 7, Stationers’ Hall Court, E.C.PREFACE. As a practical man, of about thirty years’ experience in the trade, my aim in the present work is to put before the working Pastrycook and Confectioner a collection of valuable Recipes, which I have noted down from time to time in the course of my daily avocations. Having had considerable experience in some of the best shops in London and Edinburgh, I venture to believe that I have special qualifications for the task I have undertaken; and in this belief I am encouraged by the wide and general acceptance which has been accorded to my previous work, “The Bread and Biscuit Baker’s and Sugar Boiler’s Assistant.” In my opinion, there is ample room and scope for very great improvement in the artistic side of the work of the pastry- cook and confectioner. Here, as in all other departments of human taste and invention, culture—be it ever so little—tells. I have seen, in some confectioners’ and pastrycooks’ windows, really beautiful examples of ornamental sugar-work, which 1 am convinced could not have been turned out by anyone who had not made acquaintance with the fundamental principles ofPREFACE. VI perspective and the laws of harmony in form and colour. I have seen other sugar-work that was simply hideous—a mon- strous and sad outrage on all true notions of art. And it is not only the preparation of his wares that calls for thoughtful study and careful attention to detail on the part of the tradesman who desires to excel and prosper. The dressing of the shop window, and the arrangement of the shop counter, are obviously things of very great importance if a good trade is to be done. The way in which confectionery and pastry should be handled when customers are served is also worthy of notice. However good the articles offered may be, and however artistic may be the devices employed in their preparation for pleasing the eye of the buyer, much of the otherwise good effect will be marred if the persons who serve are deficient in care and attention to what may be termed “ the delicacy of the situa- tion.” I would therefore caution the confectioner’s assistant to avoid, if possible, touching confectionery with the fingers, and would strongly advise the use of the scoop, the tongs, and the confectioner’s fork, which are generally to be seen in a well-ordered establishment. NOTE TO SECOND EDITION. The usefulness and acceptability of this work have been abundantly proved by the success of the first edition. Oppor- tunity has now been taken to make a few corrections which were found to be necessary, December, 1891.CONTENTS TAGS PREFACE . v I. —INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. The Composition of Eggs I How to Preserve Eggs 2 Proper Conditions for Butter Making .... 3 Varieties of Sugar 4 The Question of Adulteration 4 “ German ” and “ French ” Yeast, as made in England . 5 The Mixing of Dough 6 II. —PLAIN AND FANCY BREAD. 1. Household Bread 9 2. Diet or Whole Meal Bread 9 3. Rye Bread 9 4. Milk Bread 10 5. Plain Breakfast Rolls 10 6. Viennese Rolls 10 7. Queen’s Bread . . _ 11 8. American Condums n 9. French Rolls 11 10. French Bread 11 11. Vienna Bread . . . . , . . .12 12. Old English Bread ....... 12 13. Indian Bread (American Fancy Bread) . . .13 14. Graham Bread Do. . . . 13 15. Travellers’ Bread Do. . . *13 16. Muffins 14 17. Another Way 15 18. Crumpets . , , , . e . » 15viii CONTENTS. PAGE III.—TEA CAKES, BUNS, &c. ig. Tea Cakes 17 20. Russian Tea Cakes . 17 21. Sally Lunns 17 22. London Buns 18 23. Chelsea Buns 18 24. Bath Buns 18 25. German Buns 18 26. Berlin Pancakes 19 27. Scotch Scones . 19 28. Common Eccles Cakes 19 29. Switchback Buns 20 30. Swiss Buns . . 20 31. Lumley Buns 20 -FANCY BISCUITS, ALMONDS, 32. Digestive Biscuits & c. . 21 33. Charcoal Biscuits . 21 34. Aquarium Biscuits . 21 35. Thick Digestive Biscuits . 22 36. Wine Biscuits . . 22 37. Abernethy Biscuits . 22 38. Cinnamon Biscuits . 22 39. Pavilion Biscuits . 22 40. Rose Biscuits • 23 41. Syringe Biscuits . • 23 42. Orange or Lemon Biscuits • 23 43. Meringues or Meringles • 23 44. Imperials . . 24 45. Fine Rusks . 24 46. Cinnamon Rusks • 25 47. Cream Biscuits . • 25 48. Butter Biscuits . • 25 49. Naples Biscuits . • 25 50. Macaroons . 26 51. Princess Biscuits . 26 52. Ratafias . 26 53. Another Way . 27 54. Almond Filberts . 27 55. Rock Almonds (White) . 27 56. Rock Almonds (Pink) . 28 57. Rock Almonds (Brown) . 28 58. Lily Biscuits . 28 59. Royal Hearts . 28IX CONTENTS. PAGE V.—PLAIN AND FANCY CAKES. Cake-making Machinery . 29 Instructions for Baking Cakes 29 60. Method of Creaming Cakes 30 61. Madeira Cakes .... 30 62. Another Way . 30 63. Cocoa Nut Cake 30 64. American Genoa Cake 3i 65. Rice Cake 3i 66. Seed Cake .... 3i 67. Plum Cake .... 3i 68. Good Plum Cake 3i 69. Best Plum Cake .... 32 70. Albert Cakes .... 32 71. Lunch Cake .... 32 72. Rice Cake 32 73. Inside Mixture for Pound Cheese Cakes 33 74. Genoa Cake .... 33 75. Bordeaux Cake .... 33 76. Improving Stale Cakes 33 77. Queen Cakes (Best) . 33 78. Queen Cakes . . . . 34 79. Common Sultana Cakes 34 80. Sultana Cake .... 34 81. Almond Cheese Cakes 34 82. Lemon Cheese Cakes 35 83. Orange Cheese Cakes 35 84. Citron Cheese Cakes . 35 85. Rice Cheese Cakes 35 86. Common Cheese Cakes 36 87. Italian Swiss Roll 36 88. Sponge Cakes in Pound Tins .36 89. To Make Sponge Cakes in Shapes 37 90. To Make Sponge Cakes, to Ornament 37 91. To Make Savoy Cakes in Shapes 37 92. To Make Savoy Cakes, to Ornament 37 93. To Make Sponge Rice Cake 38 94. Nelson or Eccles Cake 38 95. Coventry Cakes . 38 96. Girdle Scones .... 39 97. Girdle Cakes or Scones 39 98. Scotch Oat Cake 39 99. Fat Cakes 40 100. Oatmeal Cakes 40 101. Lemon Cheese for Cheese Cakes . . 40X CONTENTS. V.—PLAIN AND FANCY CAKES {continued)— 102. Princess Beatrice Cakes . 103. Almond Simnel Cakes 104. Bury Simnels 105. Maids of Honour .... 106. Another and more Modern Way . 107. Rich Cherry Cake .... 108. Best Gingerbread .... 109. Ginger Fingers .... no. Whole Meal Ginger Nuts in. Scotch Shortbread .... 112. English Shortbread .... 113. French Shortbread .... 114. Sea-Foam Flour for Snow Cake VI.—PIES, PUDDINGS, AND CUSTARDS. 115. A Creamed Apple Pie 116. To Ice Tarts . . . . 117. Apple Pie .... 118. Gooseberry Pie 119. Currant Pie .... 120. Rhubarb Pie .... 121. Mincemeat .... 122. Mince Pie 123. Apricot Tart .... 124. Apple Dumpling 125. Jam Dumpling or Blanket 126. Marrow Pastry . . . 127. Pancakes 128. Macaroni Pudding . 129. Bread and Butter Pudding 130. Apple or Currant Fritters 131. Oatmeal Pudding 132. Rice Pudding . . . 133. Vermicelli or Macaroni Pudding 134. Lemon Dumplings . 135. Simple Suet Dumpling . 136. To Whip Cream 137. To make a Trifle 138. To make a Custard, . 139. Another Way 140. Almond Custards 141. Lemon or Orange Custards 142. A Baked Custard , . . PAGE 40 4i 4i 42 42 43 43 43 43 44 44 44 45 46 46 46 47 47 47 47 47 48 48 49 49 49 49 50 50 50 50 50 5i 5i 5i 5i 52 52 52 52 53CONTENTS. XI PAGE VI.—PIES, PUDDINGS, AND CUSTARDS [continued)— 143. Paste for Baked Custards 53 144. Puff Paste 53 145. Another Way 53 146. Another Way 54 147. A Pyramid in Puff Paste 54 148. To Make a Handsome Tartlet 54 149. Crisp Tart Paste 54 150. Sweet Tart Paste 55 151. French Pastry 55 152. Patisserie d’Am andes a la Conde . . . -55 153. Swiss Tarts 55 154. To make a Hedgehog ... ... 56 VII.—ICE CREAMS AND WATER ICES. 155. Building an Ice-House . 57 156. Filling the Ice-House • 58 157. The Freezing Tub .... • 59 158. To Freeze Ices .... . 60 159. To put Ice Cream into Moulds, Fruit Shapes, &c. . 61 160. To mix Strawberry Ice Cream . . 62 161. Strawberry Ice from Strawberry Jam . 62 162. Fresh Raspberry Ice . 62 163. Raspberry Ice from Jam . . 62 164. Fresh Apricot Ice .... . 62 165. Apricot Ice from Marmalade . • 63 166. Greengage Ice from Fresh Fruit • 63 167. Peach Ice from Fresh Fruit • 63 168. Peach Ice from Marmalade • 63 169. Red Currant Ice from Fresh Fruit . • 63 170. Barberry Ice from Fresh Fruit . . 64 171. Barberry Ice from Marmalade . . 64 172. Damson Ice from Fresh Fruit . . 64 173. Damson Ice from Marmalade . . 64 174. Lemon Ice Cream .... . 64 175. Pistachio Ice • 65 176. Biscuit Ice • 65 177. Ginger Ice • 65 178. Prince of Wales Ice . • 65 179. Royal Ice Cream .... • 6S 180. Brown Bread Ice Cream . . 66 181. Burnt Almond Ice .... . 66 182. Burnt Filbert Ice .... . 66 183. Prunella Jce . , , . f * . 67Xll CONTENTS. •ICE CREAMS AND WATER ICES (continued)— PAGE 184. Parmesan Cheese Ice . 67 185. Tea Ice Cream • 67 186. Coffee Ice Cream .... . 67 187. Chocolate Ice Cream . 67 188. Seville Orange Ice from Fresh Fruit . 68 189. Seville Orange Ice from Marmalade . . 68 190. Pineapple Ice from Fresh Fruit . 68 191. Pineapple Ice from Marmalade . 68 192. Melon Ice Cream .... . 68 193. Lemon Water Ice .... . 69 194. Orange Water Ice .... . 69 195. Currant Water Ice .... . 69 196. Strawberry Water Ice . 69 197. Raspberry Water Ice . . . . 69 [98. Barberry Water Ice .... . 69 [99, Winesour Water Ice • 69 200. Damson Water Ice .... . 70 201. China Orange Water Ice . . 70 202. Apricot Water Ice .... • 70 203. Green Gooseberry Water Ice . . 70 204. Red Gooseberry Water Ice • 70 205. Morelia Cherry Water Ice . 70 206. Mulberry Water Ice • 71 207. Peach Water Ice .... • 7i 208. Nectarine Water Ice • 7i 209. Pineapple Water Ice • 7i -JELLIES. 210. Calf’s-Foot Jelly .... . 72 211. Another Way .... . 72 212. To Ornament Jelly .... . 72 213. A Corner Dish or Fish Pond . • 73 214. Maraschino Jelly .... • 73 215. Gold or Silver Jelly . • 73 216. Lemon Jelly • 74 217. Orange Jelly • 74 218. Hartshorn Jelly .... • 74 -ORNAMENTAL SUGAR-WORK. 219. To make Gum Paste . . • 75 220. To Ornament a Cake with Gum Paste . . 76 221. To Raise the Top of a Cake with Twisted Paste . 76CONTENTS. xiii PAGE IX.-ORNAMENTAL SUGAR WORK {continued)— 222. To make a Fountain in Gum Paste . . . -77 223. A Sponge Cake as a Melon Ornamented with Fruit 77 224. A Sponge Cake as a Melon Ornamented with Flowers 77 225. A Sponge Cake to represent a Ripe Melon . . 78 226. To Ornament a Sponge Cake as a Pyramid . . 78 227. To Ornament a Sponge Cake as a Turban . . 79 228. To Ornament a Cake as a Basket of Flowers . . 79 229. An Ornamented Cake as a Flower Pot . . -79 230. An Ornamented Cake as an Elephant . . *79 231. To make Custard Cups 80 232. Ornamental Baskets ....... 80 233. To Prepare Icing for Cakes, Biscuits, &c. . . 80 234. Almond Icing for Bride Cakes 81 235. Piping Cakes 81: X.—JOINTS AND MEAT DISHES. 236. Joints of Beef ........ 82 237. Beef Steaks 83 238. To stew a Round 83 239. To stew Beef in Slices 83 240. Minced Meat or Collops 83 241. Scotch Collops 84 242. To dress Cow’s Head 84 243. Joints of Mutton 84 244. Mutton Chops 84 245. Mutton Hash 84 246. Veal . .85 247. Veal Cutlets . 85 248. To stew Veal 85 249. Stuffing for Veal 85 250. To dress a Calf’s Head 86 251. Joints of Pork 86 252. Pork Steaks 86 253. To roast a Sucking Pig 87 254. Lamb 87 255. Lamb Cutlets with Spinach 87 256. Lamb’s Head ........ 87 257. Scotch Haggis 88 258. To salt a Beef Ham 88 259. To salt a Mutton Ham . ... 88 260. To salt a Bacon Ham . .... 89Xiv CONTENTS. PAGE X. —JOINTS AND MEAT DISHES {continued)— 26 r. To Cure Tongues . 89 262. To boil Vegetables Green 89 XI. —MEAT PIES AND PATTIES. 263. Beef Steak Pie ....... 90 264. Veal Pie 90 265. Mutton Pie 90 266. Giblet Pie 90 267. Pigeon Pie 91 268. Paste for Small Raised Pies 91 269. Paste for Goose Pie 91 270. Oyster Patties . . . . . . . .91 271. Lobster Patties . 92 XII. —POULTRY AND GAME. 272. Directions for Dressing Poultry . . . *93 273. To roast Fowls and other Poultry . . . *93 274. To boil a Turkey ....... 94 275. To roast a Turkey or Fowl 94 276. To boil Fowls 94 277. To roast Ducks 95 278. To stew a Duck 93 279. To roast a Goose 95 280. Giblets 96 281. To stew Pigeons 96 282. To roast Pigeons 96 283. Directions for dressing Game 96 284. Pheasants and Partridges . . .... 96 285. Grouse 97 286. To roast Wild Fowl 97 287. Wild Ducks 97 288. Woodcocks, Snipes, and Quails . . . .97 289. Guinea and Pea Fowls 97 290. To roast Hare 98 291. Broiled and Hashed Hare .... ,98 292 Stewed Rabbits 98 293. Roasted Rabbits .98 XIII. -ORNAMENTAL BUTTER-WORK. 294. To Ornament a Tongue as a Dolphin . . -99 295. To Ornament a Tongue with Flowers . . .99 296. To Ornament Potted Meat as a Hen and Chickens . 100 297. To Ornament a Pie as a Lion 100 298. To Ornament Hams ioo%% CONTENTS. PAGE XlV.—SUNDRIES FOR CONFECTIONERS. 299. To Clarify Sugar . 102 300. To Test the Purity of Essence of Lemcn . „ . 102 301. Eclairs 103 302. Petits Choux 103 303. Lemon Drops 103 304. Lemonade 104 305. Currant and Raspberry Summer Drink . . . 104 306. Mulberry Summer Diink 104 307. Ginger Pop ........ 104A D VERTISEMENTS. JOSEPH BAKER & SONS, ENGINEERS. FIFTEEN GOLD MEDALS. The Bailey Baker Patent Oven. Highest Awards ever given for Biscuit, Bread, Confectionery, and Chocolate Machinery and Ovens. Highest Award, London, 1884. Highest Award, Amsterdam, 1886. Highest Award, Edinburgh, 1886. Highest Award, Adelaide, 1887. Highest Award, Barcelona, 1888-9. Highest Award, Baris, 1889. Highest Award, New Zealand, 1890. Highest Award, Chili, 1890. Jam and Melting Pans. New Patent Thomson Dough Mixing and Kneading Machine. Most modern, improved, and best made plants for the Biscuit, Bread Confectionery, and Chocolate trades. Chocolate Machinery. City Road, London, E.C.THE PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER’S GUIDE. I. INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. As eggs, butter, and sugar enter largely into the daily work of the pastrycook and confectioner, a short dissertation on each will, I think, be of use, or at all events interesting, to some at least of my readers. Eggs. Mr. P. L. Simmonds, F.L.S., in the course of a lecture on “ The Composition of Eggs,” adverted in the first place to that complex structure, the shell, which, as he explained, in place of being the tight, compact covering it appears to be, is everywhere perforated with holes, resembling, when looked at through a microscope, the white perforated paper sold by sta- tioners. Through these holes there is constant evaporation going on, so that an egg from the day it is first dropped is daily losing weight. The shell is made up chiefly of earthy matter, the proportions varying according to the food of the bird, but 90 to 97 per cent, is generally carbonate of lime; the remainder is composed of from 2 to 5 per cent, of animal matter, and 1 to 5 per cent, of phosphate of lime and magnesia. Oats, on which hens chiefly feed, contain phosphate of lime, with an abundance of silica, and the stomach and assimilating organs of the bird are made capable of decomposing and rending BPASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. asunder the lime salt, and forming with the silica a silicate of lime. The shell of an ordinary hen’s egg weighs about 105 grains—that is the inorganic portion of it—and if a bird lays 100 eggs in the year she produces nearly 22 ozs. of nearly pure carbonate of lime in that period of time. The composition of a fresh egg, exclusive of the shell, is 74 parts water, 14 albumen, 10*5 oil or fat, and 1*5 mineral salts. The yolks contain water and albumen, but associated with these is quite a large number of mineral and other substances, which render it very complex in composition. The bright yellow colour is due to a peculiar fat or oil, which is capable of reflect- ing the yellow rays of light, and this holds the sulphur and phosphorus which abound in the egg. The yolk contains rela- tively a less proportion of nitrogenous matter than the white, and the proportion of solid matter, on account of the fat, is considerably greater. An egg weighing if ozs. consists of T20 grains of carbon and 17! grains of nitrogen. The white of egg contains a much larger proportion of water than the yolk; it contains no fatty matter, but consists mainly of albumen in a dissolved state, and enclosed within very thin walled cells. It is this arrangement which gives to the white of egg its ropy gelatinous state. The albumen or white of egg is a coagulable lymph in its purest natural state, convertible by the action of heat at about 1240 Fahr. into thin white fibres, and at 1600 into a solid mass. In a heat not exceeding 2120 it dries, shrinks, and has the appearance of horn. When burnt it emits ammonia, and when treated with nitric acid yields nitrogen. Bow to Preserve Eggs.—Procure as many fresh-laid eggs as you may want to preserve. Take a square box and line the bottom of the box with common salt; then mb each egg thoroughly over with fresh butter and lay the eggs in rows on the top of the salt, the small end uppermost. Put another layer of salt on the top of the eggs, and proceed with the others3 INTRODUCTION. till your box is filled, putting a layer of salt on the top of each division. This is a clean, easy, and effectual way to preserve eggs. Another Way.—The following is the method used in Aus- tralia for preserving eggs. The vessels in which the eggs are to be placed are glass jars with patent stoppers, vulcanised india rubber joints making them perfectly air-tight. As soon as the eggs have been collected, the jars are placed in hot water for some time and left until the air in them has become thoroughly warm and rarefied. The jars having been heated, the eggs are wrapped in paper to prevent them knocking together, and placed in the jars, their pointed ends uppermost. The jars are immediately closed up, and then, and not until then, are removed from the hot water. It is said that if this process is skilfully carried out the eggs will be as fit for the breakfast table many months after they were put in the jars as on the day they were laid. The great secret of success in carry- ing out this method is, no doubt, to thoroughly heat the air in the jars. The eggs will stand a better chance of keeping if the paper in which they are packed is previously baked and used warm. Patent stoppered jars are not absolutely necessary, any stopper answering which effectually excludes the air. Butter-Making. In regard to butter-making, by whatever process or utensil butter is made, the cream should always be at a temperature of about 6o° Fahr. Consequently, it requires a cool place in hot weather, and occasionally artificial heat in cold weather. There are charms which are said to be serviceable in “making the butter to come.” One which was once in common use in the North was to chant the following strain:— “ Peter standing at the gate, Waiting for a butter cake, % Churn, butter, churn ! ”4 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER’S GUIDE. Possibly these words, set to a lively-going tune, might get a speedier action out of the arms of the churner, and thus bring the butter sooner. There is another north-country milkmaid’s charm, now nearly forgotten, which may interest some. If a milch cow was cross when being milked, and had the fault of kicking over the milkpail occasionally, it was said that she could be made quite docile by a few soft pats on the flank, the milkmaid repeating the while this singular charm— “ Approche, Madame ! Approche, Madame! ” Sugar. Mr. F. Barker Cooke, in a lecture on “Sugar” before the City of London College Science Society, said that the Greeks and Romans knew of the existence of sugar (as evidenced by their writings), although they used honey for sweetening pur- poses ; and after tracing the history of sugar from their time to the present, Mr. Cooke gave a detailed account of the extrac- tion of sugar from the cane, beetroot, date-palm, maple-tree, milk, malt, and starch. He then explained that sugar was really a generic term for very many different substances, which are divided into the three groups of saccharoids, glucoses, and saccharoses, each having its characteristic properties. He pointed out that twenty varieties of cane sugar are known, varying from white crystals from the Mauritius to a very black sugar from Manilla. Beet sugars also are produced of all shades. Adulteration. A few words may be added here on a subject of the greatest importance—Adulteration. While science is daily at work analysing and detecting the existence of foreign bodies in our food, it is still more.actively, though not quite so creditably, engaged in devising means by which fraud can be successfully carried out.INTRODUCTION. 5 Mr. Richard Bannister showed, in his lectures at the Society of Arts, how a legitimate endeavour on the part of chemists to produce artificial butter from animal fat led to the production of butterine and oleomargarine. The compounds as first made were really in all their chemical constituents the exact counter- parts of butter made from cream in the churn, but they soon got into the hands of the adulterants, and became a curious mixture. Recently it was shown that, not content with debasing olive oil with another and cheaper vegetable oil, the vendors or blenders of these commodities have taken to adulterating the adulterant oil with an entirely foreign element, so as to increase its weight and substance. Yet another instance. Herr van Hamel Roos has recently detected at Amsterdam 30 per cent, of marble dust in ground rice which had been imported from Paris ; while in Haute Vienna, one of the most extensive millers of the district has been found to have mixed carbonate of lead with his flour. This fraud gives the flour a fine appearance, rendering it whiter, and enables the dealer to pass off inferior qualities at the price of a superior article. The consumer, of course, is liable to the miseries of lead-poisoning, but this is a trifling matter to the fraudulent manufacturer. If our own Government were to give their attention in a serious and forcible way to the adulterated commodities which are allowed to be consumed by the nation, it would go a long way to make a healthier, and happier, and a more contented people. Yeast. Yeast is an item of great importance to the pastrycook. Yeast of the German and French kind is now made in England and Scotland, and I am myself using at the present time yeast of English make. One could not desire better, and it can be6 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. bought at a much cheaper rate than either German or French yeast. That which is made in Scotland I have tried, and I must confess I do not like it; but they may have improved their method since my experience of it, as it is now a few years since I used it. The Mixing of Dough. I will conclude this chapter with a few practical hints on the mixing of dough for the various kinds of common cakes, biscuits, &c. Instead of rubbing the butter or lard into the flour, as the old method is, first sift your flour with whatever other ingredients you require for mixing with it—such as cream of tartar, soda, ammonia, acid, &c.; then make a bay in the centre of the flour, and add your butter or lard along with the sugar: cream all these well together in the bay, and add your remaining ingredients, such as eggs, milk, &c., making all into dough or batter, as may be required. This method may give a little more trouble, but will be found a great improvement on the old one as regards the quality of the articles turned out. And we must never forget that if we aim at excellence, whether in quality or otherwise, we must never spare our pains and trouble in our wrork.RECIPES,II. PLAIN AND FANCY BREAD. 1.—Household Bread. Put i stone of flour in a basin and make a hole in the centre of the flour. Have previously dissolved in a large cup of warm water 2 ozs. of German yeast; pour the yeast into the hole in the flour; stir a little flour in; let it stand for about two hours in a warm place; then add 3 ozs. of salt and sufficient milk or water to make it into a nice mellow dough ; let it stand for one hour, then put it into tins and let it prove; then bake it off. Let the oven be a good sound heat. 2.—Diet or Whole Meal Bread. Take 8 lbs. of granulated wheat meal, 4 ozs. of cream of tartar, 2 ozs. of soda, 4 ozs. of castor sugar, 2 ozs. of salt. Sift all the ingredients well together, along with the wheat meal; make a good large bay in the centre of the flour; put as much churned milk in as you think will take in all the flour, and make into a nice working dough. Weigh off at 2 lbs., 1 lb., or whatever size loaves are required. They are generally baked in oval tins turned upside down on the loaves, and should be baked in a sound oven. 3.—Rye Bread. Put 8 lbs. of household flour in a basin; make it into a weak dough, so as you can stir it nicely with a spoon; give it 4 ozs.10 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. of German yeast, and let the water be about ioo° Fahr. When this is ready, as it should be in two hours, thoroughly dissolve 4 ozs. of black treacle in a cup of warm water with 3 ozs. of salt; mix this amongst the sponge and make up with rye meal. Put it into tins, let it prove, and bake in a sound oven. 4.—Milk Bread. Take 8 lbs. of flour, 3 ozs. of cream of tartar, 2 ozs. of soda, and mix all together. Put 6 ozs. of butter or lard into the flour, make a bay, put in 3 ozs. of castor sugar and 1\ ozs. of salt; make into nice working dough with churned milk; put into tins at once and bake in a sound oven. 5.—Plain Breakfast Rolls. Set a sponge with 8 lbs. of Hungarian or best flour; give it 4 ozs. of good German yeast, and let the water be of the same heat as for rye bread. It should be ready in about two hours. Dissolve 2 ozs. of salt in a small cup of water, mix it well in the sponge, and make it into dough. Let it stand a little till it proves; then work it off into long rolls; lay them side by side on an edged pan, grease the ends, let them prove, and bake in a sharp oven. 6.—Viennese Rolls. Take 8 lbs. of Vienna flour, 3 ozs. of French yeast, 2 ozs. of butter, 1 oz. each of salt and sugar, and l lb. of potatoes, peeled and boiled, and broken up fine. Put 2% quarts of water or milk into a basin about blood heat, and mix into it the yeast, potatoes, sugar, and about 1 lb. of flour. Put this to ferment for about three hours; when it drops it will do to take up; the salt is now added to the sponge; rub the butter into the remainder of the flour, then mix it with the sponge, and make up the dough rather soft. Let it prove for another hour,Take 1 pint of milk, 1 lb. of butter, 4 ozs. of sugar, 1 oz. of BREAD, AMERICAN CONDUMS, ROLLS. then give it what the bakers call a “ slight head upweigh into quarter, half, or pound weight loaves, and mould them up —the smaller into oval, the larger into long rolls \ then let them stand till they prove. If a brick oven, bake on oven bottom; if an iron oven, they must be proved on a baking sheet or pan. 7.—Queen’s Bread. Take half a gallon of new7 milk about 90° Fahr., and put into the milk 5 ozs. of German yeast. When properly dissolved, add 1 lb. of flour and 1 lb. of moist sugar, and let it ferment for two hours. Then have melted i^-lbs. of butter, pour it into the ferment with 6 eggs and 2 ozs. of salt, and make all into a dough. Let it stand for half an hour, and work off into horse- shoes, circles, twists, &c. Prove, and bake in a good oven. 8.—American Condums. (For Breakfast.) Use the same dough as for plain breakfast rolls; mould them up the shape of an egg, but the dough must be if anything a little tighter; when moulded take your pin and press it in the middle of the roll; have a tin or board with a cloth laid on it well dusted with flour, lay your condums on the cloth, and let a small piece of the cloth be between each condum to keep them from sticking. Prove, and bake on the oven bottom. 9.—-French Rolls. Use the same dough as for the above, but moulded a little longer, as for condums. Bake in French roll pans. French rolls must always be rasped. 10.—French Bread.12 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. salt, 10 eggs, 2 ozs. of yeast, and about 5 lbs. of Hungarian flour. Warm the milk, dissolve the sugar and yeast in it with 4 ozs. of flour. Let this ferment for about two hours, then break the eggs into it, rub the butter amongst the flour, add the salt, and mix the whole into a good firm dough. Let the dough prove, and knead it up again; weigh off at 2 ozs. each; mould like a cottage loaf with a small top; let it prove on tins, and bake a nice colour. Wash over the tops with milk. This is what is called “ Baker’s Brioche.” 11.—Vienna Bread. Take 12 lbs. of Vienna flour, 3 quarts of milk, 1\ ozs. of salt, l lb. of German yeast, 1 lb. of potatoes. Warm 5 pints of milk to about 90°; pare the potatoes and pound them to pulp; put them in the milk with some flour, add the yeast so as to form a ferment, and when ready dissolve the salt in a pint of the milk made warm. Make it into dough, and let it prove; then take as much dough as you require and rub some butter in with some flour; add some loaf sugar, making it to the consistence required to shape into twists, rings, horse-shoes, &c., &c. Prove them in the same manner as buns; bake in a sound oven, and when done wash over with egg and milk. Some persons put carraway seeds or salt on the twists to make a different appearance. 12.—Old English Bread. 14 lbs. of rough wheat meal, 2 lbs. of white flour, 1 lb. of butter, 6 ozs. of yeast, 2 quarts of milk, and 2 quarts of water. Rub the butter in the meal, and make a bay, having dissolved the yeast in the milk, which should be about 8o° Fahr. Pour into the bay, and make all into a dough. Let it stand half an hour and scale off and prove; bake in a moderate oven.AMERICAN FANCY BREADS. 13 American Fancy Breads. Our Transatlantic cousins have a great variety of bread, which appears every morning on the breakfast-table. In this country ninety-nine housewives out of a hundred are content with the same accustomed “ staff of life ” day after day, and month after month, sometimes varying the monotony with a few breakfast rolls. In addition to the Condums, for which a recipe is given above, we append three examples of the forms of American fancy bread in common use. 13.—Indian Bread. Take half a pint each of buttermilk and sweet milk, adding- one half teaspoonful of carbonate of soda to the former; beat up two fresh eggs—whites and yolks together—pour the milk into the eggs, stirring gently at the same time; then sprinkle in nine tablespoonfuls of sifted Indian corn meal, and mix tho- roughly; put a piece of lard the size of an egg in the pan in which you are going to bake your bread, and when it is melted pour in your batter, having previously added a teaspoonful of salt. Bake in a moderate oven until crisp and light. 14.—Graham Bread. This is very delicious and simple to make. To make a loaf take two cups of white bread sponge, adding two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar and sufficient flour to make a stiff batter; let it rise, then add more flour, enough to knead it up with. Put it in the pan to rise still more, and then bake a pale colour. 15.—Travellers’ Bread. This favourite article with the Yankees is made by mixing with 1 lb. of flour about % lb. of currants, dates, figs, and raisins, all of them except the currants being chopped fine.!4 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER’S GUIDE. Stir, till quite stiff, with the coldest water obtainable—iced is the best—moving the spoon briskly in order to incorporate air with it; now knead in more flour, cut into cakes or rolls about half an inch thick, and bake in a quick oven. All these American Breads are eaten hot, being torn or broken with the hand—not cut with a knife—and either molasses or butter may be taken with them. 16.—Muffins. Sift through the sieve 4 lbs. of good Hungarian flour ; take as much water and milk as will make the above into a nice-sized batter, having previously dissolved 2 ozs. of yeast, 1 oz. of sugar, and f oz. of salt in the liquid; then beat this well with your hand for at least ten minutes ; after it has half risen in your pan beat again for other ten minutes; then let it stand till ready, wdiich you will know by the batter starting to drop. Have one of your roll-boards well dusted with sifted flour, and with your hand lay out the muffins in rows. The above mixture should produce 24 muffins. Then, with another roll-board slightly dusted with rice flour, take the muffins and with your fingers draw the outsides into the centre, forming a round cake; draw them into your hand and brush off any flour that maybe adhering to them; place them on the board dusted with rice, and so on till all are finished; then put them in the prover to prove, which does not take long. The heat of the liquid for muffins (or crumpets) should range from 90° to ioo° Fahr., according to the temperature of the bakehouse. One great point to guard against in fermenting cakes or bread, is to see that your sponge or dough does not get chilled. By the time your muffins are ready, have the stove or hot plate properly heated, then row them gently on to the hot plate so as not to knock the proof out of them; when they are a niceMUFFINS AND CRUMPETS. IS brown turn them gently on the other side and bake a nice delicate brown. 17. Another way.—Some persons now make muffins after the same formula as for tea cakes, namely, moulding one in each hand pinned out the size required, then proving and baking. I have tried that way more than once, but I cannot get the muffins to appear anything like what my experience teaches me a muffin should be. Practice and judgment are required to make one proficient in muffin-making. There has recently been introduced to the trade a hot plate heated with gas, which will go a long way in helping the muffin- maker. It is both cleaner and handier, and you can bake with it to a more certain degree of heat. 18— Crumpets. Crumpets are generally made by muffin-makers, the most modern formula being the following :—Take 4 lbs. of good English flour, 2 ozs. of good yeast, and 2 ozs. of salt. The flour and salt may be sifted together. Take 1 quart of milk, and quarts of water, at about ioo° Fahr.; dissolve your yeast in the water, then mix in your flour and salt; make all into a thin liquid paste, giving it a thoroughly good mixing; let it stand for one hour, when you may again give it a tho- roughly good beat; let it stand for another hour, when it will be ready to bake off. In the meantime thoroughly clean your stove or hot plate before it gets hot, and give it a rub over with a greasy cloth; then have your rings of the size required (they should be half an inch in depth); slightly grease them, and see that they are greased for each round of the hot plate ; have a cup in one hand and a saucer in the other to prevent the batter dropping; pour half a cup of the batter into the rings and spread them with a palette knife to a level surface,16 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. putting what comes off (if any) back into your pan. Then, when the bottom part is of a nice golden colour, turn them over with your palette knife, turning the ring at the same time, and bake off a nice colour. Remove them from the stove or hot plate and lay them on clean boards for a couple of minutes, when with a gentle tap your rings will come clear; and so on till finished. Nothing but careful practice, and particular attention to the whys and wherefores of both hot plates and batter, will make a good muffin or crumpet maker.III. TEA CAKES, BUNS, ETC. 19.—Tea Cakes. Take £ gallon of water at, say, 940 Fahr.; add 1 lb. of moist sugar and 5 ozs. of German or French yeast; dissolve all together, add say lbs. of flour, and mix; when it is well risen and has a cauliflower top, add 1 lb. of lard or butter, 2 ozs. of salt, and a few currants to taste ; mix all together into tea-cake dough, cut and shape into what sizes you wish, and bake in a sharp oven. 20.—Russian Tea Cakes. Beat up 24 eggs with 2 lbs. of castor sugar into a sponge batter; when ready add 2 lbs. of sifted flour, with a little essence of lemon; lay them out in oblong shapes, with the Savoy biscuit bag, lay in sheet tins upon sheets of strong paper; dust castor or icing sugar on the top, and bake of a delicate gold colour in a moderate oven. This is an American mixture. 21.—Sally Lunns. Take 1 quart of milk or water about 90° Fahr., 2\ ozs. of German yeast, 10 ozs. of moist sugar, and 8 ozs. of flour; mix all together, let it ferment, and when ready add f oz. salt and 12 ozs. of butter; let it lie for half an hour, then mould round and put them in rings; prove them, but not too much, or they will fall in the oven. 6ake 4 lbs. of good flour, sift along with it 2 ozs. cream of 5. Let them prove on sheet tins, and when sufficiently proved ^ in a hot oven ; after they are baked wash them over the with milk and egg. 23.—Chelsea Buns. ake part of the dough of the above buns, roll it out and it over with good butter, as you would puff paste; double ) and give it a gentle roll and cut it in diamonds about 4 in. They must be proved a little, but not so much as Lon- buns; or you can roll the paste into a square and cut in ; strips. Wash with egg and dust sugar and currants on ; take one of the ends of the strips, form it into a round , and place all together (after making or rolling them round) 1 square-edged tin; prove, and bake in a sound oven. 24—Bath Buns. hese can be mixed the same as London buns, and baked ames or tart tins; set them to prove when half risen, wash 1 over with white of egg, dust them over with sifted sugar re putting them in the oven, first damping them with a wet h. 25.—German Buns.with a plain round cutter; put about a teaspoonful of the centre, draw the side into the centre, so that the ja be inside the cake ; have a cloth dusted with flour (sanu condums), prove them with the turned side to the clol when proved boil among lard in a pan on an ordinal turn them in the fat when ready, and strew on them t lump sugar. 27.—Scotch Scones. Take 4 lbs. of flour, 8 ozs. of butter, 8 ozs. of sugar, of cream of tartar, 1 oz. of carbonate of soda, and 2 egg! churned milk make into a nice working dough, weigh off, round, and either bake them whole or cut into four; eg£ on the top and turn them when half baked. 28.—Common Eccles Cakes. Mix a small quantity of cream of tartar and soda in 2 flour, rub in the flour 1 lb. of lard, then add 12 075. of cu work with a little water into a nice stiff dough, pin 0 with a fluted cutter, egg the top, dust them with castor and bake on sheet tins in a sharp oven. This quantity will make 40 cakes, and they will be good for coffee-house use. say at a halfpenny each.18 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. Take 4 lbs. of good flour, sift along with it 2 ozs. cream of Some persons add about six eggs to this quantity, and glaze with egg on top before proving. 22. —London Buns. Take 6 lbs. of flour, i lb. sugar, i lb. butter, and rather more than a pint of milk; rub the sugar fine into the flour, then put into a pan, and dissolve 3 ozs. of German yeast amongst the milk, which must be warm: mix all together; set in a warm place to rise, and when ready have your butter melted with a little more milk; add 6 eggs, mix all together, set in a warm place for half an hour, and mould the paste into small round buns. Let them prove on sheet tins, and when sufficiently proved bake in a hot oven ; after they are baked wash them over the top with milk and egg. 23. —Chelsea Buns. Take part of the dough of the above buns, roll it out and spot it over with good butter, as you would puff paste; double it up and give it a gentle roll and cut it in diamonds about 4 in. long. They must be proved a little, but not so much as Lon- don buns; or you can roll the paste into a square and cut in long strips. Wash with egg and dust sugar and currants on top; take one of the ends of the strips, form it into a round bun, and place all together (after making or rolling them round) on a square-edged tin; prove, and bake in a sound oven. 24—Bath Buns. These can be mixed the same as London buns, and baked in frames or tart tins; set them to prove when half risen, wash them over with white of egg, dust them over with sifted sugar before putting them in the oven, first damping them with a wet brush. 25.—German Buns.PANCAKES, SCONES, ECCLES CAKES. *9 tartar and i oz. of soda; make a bay, put in 12 ozs. of butter or lard, lbs. of castor sugar and 4 eggs; cream well in the bay, taking as much churned milk as will make all into a soft dough; you may also add a little essence of lemon; place them on tins with your hand, wash over the top with egg, put a little castor sugar in the centre, and bake in a sound oven. 26— Berlin Pancakes. Take 4 lbs. of plain tea-cake dough, but make it tighter than for tea-cakes, pin it out a quarter of an inch thick, cutting out with a plain round cutter; put about a teaspoonful of jam in the centre, draw the side into the centre, so that the jam may be inside the cake ; have a cloth dusted with flour (same as for condums), prove them with the turned side to the cloth, and when proved boil among lard in a pan on an ordinary fire; turn them in the fat when ready, and strew on them bruised lump sugar. 27.—Scotch Scones. Take 4 lbs. of flour, 8 ozs. of butter, 8 ozs. of sugar, 2 ozs. of cream of tartar, 1 oz. of carbonate of soda, and 2 eggs; with churned milk make into a nice working dough, weigh off, mould round, and either bake them whole or cut into four; egg them on the top and turn them when half baked. 28.—Common Eccles Cakes. Mix a small quantity of cream of tartar and soda in 2 lbs. of flour, rub in the flour 1 lb. of lard, then add 12 ozs. of currants; work with a little water into a nice stiff" dough, pin out, cut with a fluted cutter, egg the top, dust them with castor sugar, and bake on sheet tins in a sharp oven. This quantity will make 40 cakes, and they will be found good for coffee-house use. say at a halfpenny each.20 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER’S GUIDE. 29.—Switchback Buns. Take any quantity of tea-cake dough, allowing i egg to each pound of dough, and a few drops of essence of lemon; mix well together and let it prove; then weigh off at 6 ozs. the pair; mould up, round, and dip them in egg, then in No. 2 crystallized sugar; place them on tins, prove them, and bake in a moderate oven. This bun answers well for children’s tea meetings, excur- sions, &c. 30. —Swiss Buns. Put 4 lbs. of flour in a basin, make a bay, and set a ferment with, say, 1 gill of water and \ gill of milk warmed to between 8o° and 90° Fahr.; add also 4 ozs. of yeast and 4 ozs. of sugar, stirring in a little flour to form a ferment. When the ferment is ready, mix in 10 eggs, 12 ozs. of butter, another 8 ozs. of sugar, and a pinch of salt; add sufficient water to take up all the flour, mix well, and beat all together into a nice bun dough; let it lie until nicely proved, and then weigh off at 4 ozs. the pair; mould up the shape of a long roll batched on tins, but not too close; prove them, and when baked have some water icing ready—made with icing sugar and water— spread this on the top with a palette knife, and when dry they are ready for the shop. 31. —Lumley Buns. These are made the same way as Swiss buns, only they are moulded round and dipped in egg, then dipped in castor sugar, and placed on tins. Put a little piece of candied lemon on each, prove them, and dust them again with sugar before going into the ovenIV. FANCY BISCUITS, ALMONDS, ETC. 32. —Digestive Biscuits. Take 4 lbs. of whole meal, 4 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of brown sugar, 1 lb. of butter, 2 ozs. of soda, and 4 ozs. of cream of tartar; mix with churned milk as for ordinary biscuits ; pin out in a sheet and cut with a butter biscuit cutter; bake in an ordinary oven. 33. —Charcoal Biscuits. Take 8 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of butter, 12 ozs. of charcoal, and 1 quart of milk. Rub the butter in the flour, add the charcoal, make a bay, and add the milk; make into a nice working dough, then break it and put through the rollers, and cut with a picnic cutter; bake in an ordinary oven. 34. —Aquarium Biscuits. Rub 1^ lbs. of butter into 4 lbs. of flour; make a bay; add 2 lbs. of castor sugar and 12 eggs ; mix eggs and sugar well in the bay, then make all into a nice dough, and when the dough is made add 2 ozs. of ground almonds and 2 ozs. of cocoa-nut, also ground ; mix both well into the dough, and then work off; roll them into long strips, and cut them 1 inch long; roll in ground almonds and cocoa-nut, then place them on wafer paper, and bake in a sound oven.22 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER?S GUIDE. 35.—Thick Digestive Biscuits. Take 20 lbs. of wheat meal, 5 lbs. of butter, 1\ lbs. of sugar, 1 oz. of soda, | oz. of acid, 3 quarts of milk, and 2 quarts of water. Sift the soda and acid among the wheat meal, rub the butter among the flour, make a bay; add the sugar, milk, and water, and make all into a nice dough. Pin them out in sheets, and cut with a butter biscuit cutter; then dock and bake in a good oven. Put them in the drying oven overnight. 36.—Wine Biscuits. Rub 1 lb. of butter into 4 lbs. of flour; make a bay, and pour in as much water as will make it a mellow stiff dough; weigh off at 2 ozs. each; mould each biscuit up and pin out about the size of a small saucer; dock each biscuit, and bake in a sharp oven on wires. 37. —Abernethy Biscuits. These are made the same as wine biscuits, with the addition of 1 lb. of sugar and a few carraway seeds. They are not so broad pinned and require a cooler oven. 38. —Cinnamon Biscuits. Take 6 lbs. of flour, 1^ lbs. of butter, 6 lbs. of sugar, 20 eggs, 4h ozs. of cinnamon; dough up like other fancy biscuits, and cut with a small plain round cutter. Great care is required in baking. 39.—Pavilion Biscuits. Take 8 lbs. of flour, 3 lbs. of butter, 4 lbs. of sugar, 1 lb. of ground almonds, 16 eggs, and a little milk to dough; rub the butter amongst the flour, add the ground almonds, make a bay and put in sugar and eggs, well mix, and make all into a dough; pin out in a sheet the thickness of two penny pieces ; cut out with a small spice nut cutter, and wash with white ofBISCUITS, MERINGUES. 23 eggs, dipped on crushed sugar the size of peas; bake in a moderate oven. 40.—Rose Biscuits. Split some small blanched almonds; model a few biscuits of the Lilly paste about the size of a marble; then stick six of the almonds into the modelled paste, and drop a little icing in the centre of the biscuits; let them stand one hour in a warm place, and then bake in a slow oven. When baked touch each almond with a small brush dipped in lake. 41.—Syringe Biscuits. Take 1 lb. of Venetia almonds, 2 lbs. of scorched sugar, and about 6 whites of eggs; blanch and beat the almonds very fine with white of eggs, and then rub in the sugar with two or three whites as may be required to make a fine smooth paste; put it through the jumball mould and make several different shapes, such as Prince of Wales’s feathers, fleur de lis, or a small ring with icing in the middle, and a dried cherry in the icing. This will make a neat biscuit; bake on dry paper in a slow oven. 42.—Orange or Lemon Biscuits. Take 1 lb. of Yalentia almonds, 2 lbs. of sugar, 7 or 8 whites of eggs, and the rind of 1 Seville and 2 China oranges grated; blanch and beat the almonds very fine with white of egg, add the sugar and whites, and make a paste of the same stiffness as ratafias; put in the grated orange-peel, and beat well with the spatter; then lay out on dry paper the size of ratafias, and bake in a slow oven. Lemon biscuits are made in the same way, substituting grated lemon rind for orange. 43.—Meringues or Meringles. Take any quantity you please of whites of eggs—half of them24 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER*S GUIDE. duck whites if you can procure them—whisk them with a dry whisk until so stiff that an egg will lie on the surface; then mix in with the spatter fine ^ugar until a proper stiffness is attained, which you may know by laying one out oval with a knife and spoon. If the composition retains the mark of the knife, it is ready to bake; if not, more sugar must be added. Lay out oval on dry paper and bake on a piece of wood two inches thick. This is to prevent the meringues having any bottom; they must have a pretty bloom upon them when baked. With a knife carefully take out the inside of one and fill it with any kind of preserved fruit, then take another and do the same and put the two together, and so on until all are baked. If good they will have the appearance of small eggs. Meringue Mixture for Piping is made by taking the whites of 8 fresh eggs and whisking them to a very strong froth; then adding i lb. of castor sugar and a little essence of vanilla to flavour. 44.—Imperials. Cream 6 ozs. of butter, 6 ozs. of sugar, and add four eggs, one at a time; when ready, add 4 ozs. of flour and 2 ozs. of almonds, and a few drops of essence of lemon. This will make seventeen or eighteen in small tins about three inches high. Take a little red currant jelly, melt it in a pan over the fire, and when it is a little cool put it on a plate and roll your cakes round in it; then roll them on granulated sugar. These look very nice when properly got up. 45.—Fine Rusks. Take a sponge or diet bread cake, cut it in fine thin slices, and brown it on each side. This is a very good rusk, and much in use.RUSKS, BISCUITS. 46.—Cinnamon Rusks. 25 Take 12 ozs. of butter, i£ lbs. of sugar, 8 yolks of eggs, and a little ground cinnamon. Mix all the ingredients together; then add as much flour as will make a stiff paste, and roll into rings about the size of a dollar or crown and bake in a slow oven. 47. —Cream Biscuits. Mix i quart of cream and 3 lbs. of Hungarian flour into a fine stiff paste, and roll into biscuits any size you please; they must be docked on both sides and baked in a good oven. 48. —Butter Biscuits. Take 9 ozs. of butter, 3 lbs. of Hungarian flour, and 1 pint of water. Melt the butter in the water, and mix up the flour into a stiff paste; roll it out, and cut into any size you please; dock on both sides, and bake in a good oven. 49. —Naples Biscuits. Take 8 eggs, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 gill of water, and 1 lb. 2 ozs. of flour. Put the sugar with the water into a small pan and let the sugar dissolve and then boil; then whisk the eggs and pour in the sugar in a gentle stream; keep whisking until the mix- ture is very light, which you may know by its rising. When it is perfectly cold scatter in the flour and mix it until smooth, but stir it as little as possible ; then put it into the frame, which should be well filled. A Naples biscuit frame is about 8 ins. long, 3 ins. broad, and 1 in. deep, and has upright partitions, which must be papered nicely before filling. Bake in a good oven, but not too hot; throw a dust of sugar over the biscuits as they are going into the oven.26 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 50.—Macaroons. Take i lb. of Valentia almonds, i lb. 8 ozs. of sugar, about 7 whites of eggs. Blanch and beat the almonds, with the white of an egg, in a marble mortar; when beat very fine add the sugar and two or three more whites; beat them well to- gether, then take out the pestle and add two more whites, and work all well with a spatter until the whole of the whites are incorporated. Lay one out on wafer paper and bake it in a slow oven; if it appears smooth and white the mixture is ready, if not, add one more white of egg. It is impossible to ascer- tain beforehand the exact number of whites required. If ready lay out on wafer paper, ice with sugar from the dredger, and bake in a moderate oven. Lay out with a knife and wood spoon. 51.—Princess Biscuits. These biscuits are exactly the same in make as macaroons, but must be laid out on paper only half the size, and a dried cherry laid on the top ; for variety, use a square of citron on some, and a square of angelica on others ; ice them well from the dredger, and bake in a slow oven. Lay out with a knife and wood spoon. 52.—Ratafias. Take 8 ozs. of bitter almonds, 8 ozs. of sweet almonds, 2% lbs. of sugar, and about 8 whites of eggs. Blanch, and beat the almonds with the white of an egg as fine as possible, and be careful when beating you do not oil them; when fine, mix in the sugar and beat both well together; then add more whites and work them well with the spatter, adding more whites as you go on; then lay one or two on dry paper and bake in a slow oven. If they are of a proper stiffness lay all out and bake as before. If they are good they will come off the pap&r as soon as cold ; if not, the paper must be laid on a damp table for a short time, which will have the desired effect. If youALMOND FILBERTS, ROCK ALMONDS. 27 wish to colour ratafias use lake finely ground. Lay out with a knife and wood spoon. 53. Another way.—Beat your almonds fine as before di- rected ; whisk up stiff such number of whites of eggs as you expect will be wanted; add the sugar, and beat all well with the spatter until the mixture appears quite light, which you may know by its rising in the pan; then add the almond in a mortar and mix the whole together; if too stiff add more white. This is a very excellent way if you have time. 54.—Almond Filberts. Take 1 lb. of Valentia almonds, 1 lb. of scorched sugar, and about 2 yolks of eggs. Blanch and beat the almonds very fine with yolk of egg, mix in the sugar and yolks, and beat them into a smooth paste with the pestle; roll the paste out thin and cut it out with a proper cutter in lengths, then cut it so as to leave three points on each side, place a small almond on the middle point and one opposite (being previously made wet with yolk of egg and water); roll them up and put two across each other and one on the top, which will form a filbert; work up all your paste in this way, place the filbert on a clean iron plate or tin dusted with flour; bake in a slow oven. A proper cutter for filberts must be made of tin in a zigzag shape, with nine points on each side; when the paste is cut by it, it will make three nuts. 55.—Rock Almonds (White). Blanch and cut the long way any quantity of almonds you please ; make some icing pretty stiff, put the almonds into it, and let them take up all the icing; you may also add citron, lemon, and orange cut small; lay out on wafer paper in small heaps, and bake in a very slow oven.28 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 56.—Rock Almonds (Pink). Make any quantity of icing you please, colour it with lake finely ground, and mix in as many cut almonds, citron, and lemon as it will take; lay out on wafer paper in small heaps, and bake in a slow oven. 57.—Rock Almonds (Brown). Take any quantity of Gordon almonds, cut them up very small (without blanching), also citron, lemon, and orange cut small ; prepare some very light icing, with which mix the almonds, &c., into a soft paste; lay out on wafer paper, and bake in a slow oven. 58. —Lily Biscuits. Take i lb. of Valentia almonds, i lb. of searched or castor sugar, and 2 or 3 yolks of eggs; blanch and beat your almonds very fine with yolk of egg, according to the directions for filberts; roll your paste in long lengths about a quarter of an inch thick; then roll it in rough sugar, cut it about two inches long, make a slit at each end, which open, and turn the ends a little ; bake on dry paper in a slow oven. You may make a great variety of shapes out of this paste, such as rings, pineapples, rose biscuits, &c. 59. —Royal Hearts. Take 1 lb. of Valentia almonds, 1\ lbs. of fine sugar, 8 ozs. of flour, 10 eggs and 6 yolks; beat the almonds fine with yolk of egg, then add the sugar, and mix it well with a spatter ; keep adding 1 egg at a time, and when beat well up mix in the flour gently : set tin rims in the shape of hearts, neatly buttered, on paper placed on an iron sheet, filling the rims three parts full, and bake in a slow oven.V. PLAIN AND FANCY CAKES. Cake-making Machinery. Cake-creaming machines, sponge-beating machines, and peel- cutting machines are all held by some persons to be necessary adjuncts to the modern confectioner’s appliances; but these machines are mostly used in large factories, and as this book is written with the intention rather of helping those in a much smaller way of business, I think it unnecessary to go into the respective merits of each of them. Where, however, an em- ployer can afford the outlay for purchasing such machines, and can find employment for them, he will find them of great use in a modern bakery. Instructions for Baking Cakes. A few remarks and instructions as to the baking of cakes may be made here. Queen cakes must be baked in a mode- rate oven, and will take about twenty minutes. A i-lb. cake will take about three-quarters of an hour; a 2-lb. cake, ij hours; a 4-lb. cake, 2 hours; a 6-lb. cake, 4 hours; a 12-lb. cake, 6 hours; a 20-lb. cake, 7 hours. To know when the small cakes are baked enough, give them a gentle touch with your finger; if the part rises up to its place they are baked enough. The large cakes must be tried by a bit of dry whisk being put into the middle of the cake; if it come out clammy and sticky the cake is not baked enough ; if it come out dry the baking is finished. Large cakes should be covered with strong paper, after they are risen, to prevent them from burning.30 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 60.—Method of Creaming Cakes. Pat your sugar first into a creaming basin or tin, and your butter on the top of the sugar; put it in a warm place for a short time to get heated, but be sure and do not melt or heat it too much, or it will run to oil. Have your eggs all broken ready in a pot, and your flour and fruit (if any) mixed in the flour; then start and cream the butter and sugar together. When you think it is ready (which you may know by its light- ness and its rising in the pan) add your eggs; if a pound mixture, add 3 eggs at a time. When the eggs are all taken in, mix in your flour, &c., and put the mixture in your rings and hoops. Some prefer to add a little of the flour when creaming to keep it from curdling. 61.—Madeira Cakes. Take if lbs. of butter, 2 lbs. of sugar, 24 eggs, 2 lbs. of flour, and 1 lb. of patent flour (this will make eight cakes at is. each). Proceed as directed for creaming, putting two thin slices of peel on each cake. 62. Another Way.—The following is the latest mode of making these cakes :—Take 1 lb. of butter, lbs. of sugar, and 6 eggs; mix with 1 lb. of patent flour, 1 lb. of Hungarian flour, and half a pint of milk; brush the white of an egg with sugar syrup over the tops with a soft brush, and put two pieces of citron peel on each ; bake in a moderate oven. 63.—Cocoa-nut Cake. This is made the same as Madeira?, with \ lb. of ground cocoa-nut added to the mixture, and the tops well strewn with cocoa-nut.CAKES, VARIOUS. 3i 84.—American Genoa Cake. {6d. per lb l) Take 6 lbs. of flour, 3^ lbs. of butterine, 2>h lbs. of sugar, 30 eggs, 5 lbs. of currants, i£ lbs. of candied lemon cut small, 1 pint of milk, f oz. of cream of tartar, and half that quantity of soda; cream as directed above, and have a large square- edged pan nicely papered and greased; spread your mixture on this, and bake in a sound oven. 65. —Rice Cake. Take 2 lbs. of butter, 2 lbs. of sugar, 2\ lbs. of flour, l lb. of rice flour, 20 eggs, and a few drops of essence of lemon; cream as before; put in round or square hoops and bake in a sound oven. 66. —Seed Cake. This may be made exactly the same as rice cake; but keep out the rice and add 2 ozs. of carraway seeds. 67. —Plum Cake. (6d. per lb., as usually sold at grocers' shops.} Take 8 lbs. of flour, 2 lbs. of common butter, 3 lbs. of sugar, 4 lbs. of currants, 8 ozs. of cut peel, 15 eggs, and milk to dough ; cream as before. This mixture is usually baked in small square tins nicely papered, in sizes of 1 lb. and 2 lbs. 68.-Good Plum Cake. (Sold at 6d. per lb.) Take 6£ lbs. of butter, 7 lbs. of sugar, 12 lbs. of flour, ozs. of cream of tartar, f oz. of carbonate of soda, 45 eggs, about 1 quart of good churned milk, 6 lbs. of currants, and i£ lbs. of peel; cream the butter and sugar together, add the eggs gradu-32 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. ally, have the fruit mixed among the flour, and then mix it along with the above; add the milk and make all into a nice batter; weigh off into oval tins, papered round sides and bottom, at i lb. i oz. 69.—Best Plum Cake. (is. per lb.) Take 3 lbs. of butter, 3 lbs. of sugar, 4^ lbs. of flour, 40 eggs, 8 or 10 lbs. of currants, 2 lbs. of peel, and a few drops of essence of lemon; proceed as directed for creaming and bake in round hoops. 70.—Albert Cakes. Take 2 lbs. of flour, 1 oz. of carbonate of soda and tartaric acid (use half the quantity of acid to that of soda), 12 ozs. of butter, 13 eggs, 1 lb. of sugar, £ lb. of currants, and sufficient churned milk to make a nice batter; cream as before, and bake in an edged pan of sufficient size for this mixing; cut into squares for sale at one penny. 71. —Lunch Cake. (6d. each.) Take £ lb. of butter, f lb. of sugar, 4 eggs, 3 lbs. of currants, 4 lbs. of flour, | oz. of soda, % oz. of tartaric acid, with milk to dough; proceed as directed for creaming, weigh at 1 lb. each, and bake in a sound oven. 72. —Rice Cake. (8d. per lb.) Take 3^ lbs. of flour, % lb. of lard, lb. of butter, 1 lb. of castor sugar, 6 eggs, i lb. ground rice, 1 oz. of cream of tartar, £ oz. of soda, and new milk to dough; proceed as directed for creaming, and bake in square hoops nicely paperedCAKES, IMPROVING STALE CAKES. 33 73.—Inside Mixture for Pound Cheese Cakes. Take 3 ozs. of butter, 3 ozs. of sugar, 3 eggs, 5 ozs. of patent flour, and proceed as directed for creaming (p. 30). 74.—Genoa Cake. (ij-. per lb.) Take 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of eggs, lbs. of flour, 2\ lbs. of washed and picked currants, and lbs. of orange peel; proceed as for creaming; stick blanched almonds rather thickly over the top, and bake in a small edged tin in a moderate oven. 75.—Bordeaux Cake. Take some pound cake mixture without the fruit, and spread it on sheets about eight inches in diameter and a quarter of an inch thick; bake it a nice brown, and when cold trim each piece smooth and place one on the other with jam between; then pipe or ornament to your fancy. 76.—Improving Stale Cakes. Cakes which are stale may be made to appear and eat like fresh ones if treated as follows:—Take what quantity of cakes you want to operate on, and dip them one by one quickly in clean water, or take a damp cloth and wet them all over; then place them on sheet-tins and cover over with an edged sheet- tin so as to keep in all the moisture you can. Now place them in the oven, and let the heat well penetrate through them. If required, you can glaze them over as if fresh. Stale cakes thus treated—of course I am referring to fer- mented cakes—cannot be distinguished from fresh ones except by a practised baker. 77.—Queen Cakes (best). 10 ozs. butter, 10 ozs. of sugar, 10 ozs. of flour, 6 eggs, 8 ozs. D34 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. of currants ; cream butter and sugar together, add eggs two at a time, then flour and currants. Bake in small various shaped tins. 78.—Queen Cakes. 11 lbs. of butter, 2 lbs. castor sugar, 15 eggs, 2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of patent flour, a little milk; proceed as above. Patent flour is made by sifting 8 lbs. of good flour, 4 oz. of tartar, 2 ozs* of soda three times through the sieve. 79.—Common Sultana Cakes. Take 36 lbs. of flour, 15 lbs. of lard and butter, 16 lbs. of sugar, 4 quarts of eggs, 12 ozs. of cream of tartar, 6 ozs. of soda, 30 lbs. of sultanas, 1 quart of milk; cream the butter, lard, and sugar together; add the eggs and then the flour, milk, and sultanas; bake in 2-lb. hoops. (They are sold at is. each). 80.—Sultana Cake. (SI. per lb.) Take 3^ lbs. of common butter, 3^ lbs. of castor sugar, ^ lb. of patent or soda flour, 5^ lbs. of fine flour, 30 eggs, 6 lbs. of cleaned and picked sultanas, and about 1 pint of churned milk; have an edged tin nicely papered of sufficient size to allow your mixture to be two inches thick; weigh down your flour, then mix your sultanas among the flour, cream the butter and sugar in the usual way, add the eggs, and mix all together; bake in a sound oven. 81.—Almond Cheese Cakes. Blanch and beat fine, with a little orange-flower water, 4 ozs. of Valentia almonds; add 4 ozs. of sifted sugar, the yolks of three eggs, well beat, and a small quantity of brandy; then mix 4 ozs. of sweet butter nicely creamed, fill your sheeted pans35 CHEESE CAKES. better than half full, and put them into the oven immediately; you may make a star in the middle with split almonds; bake in a moderate oven. 82. —Lemon Cheese Cakes. Squeeze two large lemons and boil the skins very soft; then beat them fine in a mortar, and pass them through a hair sieve; beat also 4 ozs. of blanched almonds, and add 6 ozs. of castor sugar and the yolks of five eggs well beat; mix all together with the juice of the lemon, and 5 ozs. of butter nicely creamed; then fill your sheeted tins and bake in a good oven. 83. —Orange Cheese Cakes. These are made in the same way as lemon cheese-cakes, substituting oranges for lemons; the skins must be freshened in two or three waters, to take out the bitterness. 84. —Citron Cheese Cakes. Beat the yolks of 6 eggs, and mix them with 1 quart of boil- ing cream; keep stirring it until cold ; then set it on the fire and let it boil until it curds; beat four ounces of Valentia almonds fine with orange-flower water, then sweeten it to your taste, or break in some dry Savoy biscuits, and mix in some green citron cut very fine; fill your sheeted pans, make a star with green citron on the top of each cake, and bake in a good oven. 85.—Rice Cheese Cakes. Take £ lb. of fine rice powder, mix it with a gill of cream and the yolks of 6 eggs well beat; add sugar and nutmeg to your taste, set it on the fire to stiffen, and keep stirring it all the time; then set it to cool, and when cold stir in a glass of brandy; fill your sheeted pans with it, and bake in a moderate oven.36 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 86.—Common Cheese Cakes. Set i quart of new milk near the fire or on the stove (when it is new milk warm add a tablespoonful of rennet), let it stand until you see it is turned to a curd, then take a knife and cut it into diamonds; let it stand to drain for ten minutes in a fine splinter sieve, and rub it through the sieve ; sweeten the curd to your taste, grate in a little nutmeg and the rind of a lemon, and mix in well 6 yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of brandy, and 4 ozs. of melted butter, then add 6 ozs. of dry currants ; have your pans ready sheeted and fill them better than half full; bake in a good oven. If you wish to have a richer curd add % a pint of cream. 87.—Italian Swiss Roll. Beat up with a whisk io eggs and io ozs. of castor sugar, and when it is ready stir in lightly 5 ozs. of sifted flour; have a flat tin nicely papered, pour your mixture on the paper, spread it out the required thickness, and bake in a sound oven; have a clean bag dusted with sugar, turn your cake on to the bag (if the paper do not come off quickly brush it over with cold water), spread on your jam, and roll up quickly; dust the top with sugar, and cut into lengths. 88.—Sponge Cakes in Pound Tins. Take 15 eggs, lbs. sugar, lbs. flour, and the rind and juice of a lemon. Separate the whites of the eggs from the yolks, put the sugar and yolks into a pan and beat them well up with a spatter; then whisk up the whites exceedingly stiff so as an egg might lie on the surface, and mix the whole together as lightly as possible; after which mix in the flour with the same care. Let your shapes be buttered with the sweetest butter you can procure, which must be creamed and laid on37 SPONGE CANES. with a small brush. Care, however, must be taken to make no marks with the brush, as they will appear when the cake is turned out; after you have buttered the shapes shake some fine sugar over them gently, which will take off the appearance of the butter; fill in and bake in a slow oven. You may beat sponge cakes hot if you think proper, but they do not keep so well. Lard for Greasing Sponge Cake Tins. In preparing your lard for greasing cases, moulds, or tins for sponge cake mixtures, see that the lard is pure, and to i lb. of lard add 6 ozs. of good flour; have a clean jam-pot, put your lard and flour in it, take a clean spoon and mix both lard and flour well together; then grease in the ordinary way. This is the best method I know of, and a great improvement on the old style. 89.—To Make Sponge Cakes in Shapes. Take the weight of io eggs in sugar, and the weight of 7 eggs in flour; to be baked in a slow oven. 90.—To Make Sponge Cakes, to Ornament. Take 12 eggs in sugar and 9 in flour; to be baked in a slow oven. (See Recipe 230, How to ornament.) 91.—To Make Savoy Cakes in Shapes. Take 14 eggs and take out whites from 7, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of flour; to be baked in a slow oven. 92.—To Make Savoy Cakes, to Ornament. Take 12 eggs and take out whites from 3, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of flour; to be baked in a slow oven, (See Recipe 230, How to ornament.)38 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 93.—To Make Sponge Rice Cake. Take 8 eggs, i lb. of sugar, 8 ozs. of rice flour, and 4 ozs. of flour ; to be baked in a slow oven. 94.—Nelson or Eccles Cake. Take 2 lbs. of puff paste ; roll half of it out on an iron plate or tin, spread lb. of clean currants and ilb. of moist sugar upon the paste, and with a brush dash a little water on the sugar and currants to make them unite ; roll out the remainder of the paste, and lay it on the top; ice it well according to directions for tarts, and bake it in a good oven. 95.—Coventry Cakes. Take some puff paste and roll it out thin; cut it in a round, the size of a large basin, and cover it over with apple marma- lade and currants and a fresh grated lemon; double it up like a triangle; cut figures on the top to please your fancy, ice it very well, and bake in a good oven. Scotch Cakes. I hope my readers will not think it out of place to give the mode of making Scotch Girdle Scones and Scotch Oat Cake, two of the most essential articles of food on the well-to-do working man’s table in Scotland. The Scotch housewife prides herself on her “ guid ” scones or “ guid ” oat cake, as well she may, for they only need to be better known to be more appreciated. In the first place, a “ girdle ” must be procured—a round flat iron pan to cover the fire, with a bool or handle and a small ring on the top with a swivel, so that it can be turned about on the fire after being hooked on to an iron hook in the centre of the fireplace.SCOTCH CAKES. 39 96.—Girdle Scones. Take 4 lbs. of flour, 1 oz. of cream of tartar, 1 oz. of car- bonate of soda, i oz. of tartaric acid, f oz. of salt, and mix all these ingredients together; put them all into a basin, make a hole in the centre, and pour in as much churned milk as will make them into a nice working dough; mould up in pieces about 1 lb. in weight, pin them out not too thick, and cut them into four; or roll out a sheet and cut with a small round cutter; bake on the girdle, turning them when half done on the other side. Care must be taken not to have the fire too hot, or they will burn before they are half baked. 97.—Girdle Cakes or Scones. These are sometimes called in Scotland “ English Muffins.” Take 8 lbs. of soda flour, 1 -lb. of lard, 1 oz. of salt, 1 lb. of sugar, 6 eggs, and make into dough with buttermilk; weigh off at 8 ozs. the pair, mould round, pin out the size of a small breakfast plate, and bake on the hot plate; when they are about half done, turn them on the other side to finish baking. 98.—Scotch Oat Cake. Put about 2 or 3 lbs. of oatmeal in a basin with salt sufficient to your taste; pour as much warm water in as will make the meal into a nice working dough; then mould each piece round; pin out thin, rub the surface of the cake well with your hand, and cut into four; sharpness must be used in working these off, as-the warm water has a tendency to make the dough tight or stiff; after they are baked on the girdle place them before the fire to thoroughly dry. Some persons use a little lard and a pinch of soda, but the above recipe is the original way to make Scotch Oatmeal Cakes.40 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 99. —Fat Cakes. The following is the English housewife’s mode of making these cakes:— Put 2 lbs. of flour in a basin; rub into it 12 ozs. of lard or butter, and make into a mellow dough; add a pinch of salt, let it lie for ten minutes, and then pin it out in sheets; cut them with a knife into diamond shape. Some add a pinch of soda. These cakes are either sent to the bakehouse or baked in a side oven. 100.—Oatmeal Cakes. The following is a recipe for making these cakes for sale in confectioners’ shops:— Take 7 lbs. oatmeal (medium), 1 lb. of fine flour, if lbs. of lard, 1f ozs. of cream of tartar, if ozs. of carbonate of soda, if ozs. of salt. Put the oatmeal and flour together, with the soda, salt, and tartar; mix all thoroughly, rub in the lard, make a bay, and put in as much cold water as will make an easy working dough; weigh off at 8 ozs., mould round, and pin out; then cut into four, and bake on clean dry tins in a sharp oven. 101.—Lemon Cheese for Cheese Cakes. Put 4 ozs. of butter and 1 lb. of castor sugar in a pan ; add 3 lemons grated and squeezed; let it simmer on the fire, then beat up well 6 eggs and add the eggs to the other ingre- dients, stirring well all the time. 102.—Princess Beatrice Cakes. Take if lbs. of butter, 2 lbs. of castor sugar, the yolks of 20 eggs and the whites of 10 eggs, if lbs. of flour, and the grated rind of 4 oranges; cream the butter and sugar together, add the yolks and the grated rind of the oranges, have the whites of the eggs well beaten. Then add the flour and stir allALMOND SIMNELS, BURY SIMNELS. 41 gently together; put into hoops nicely papered, and bake in a moderate oven; ice them over when cold, and pipe them with icing coloured with a little carmine. 103.—Almond Simnel Cakes. Cream 1 lb. of butter with 1 lb. of castor sugar, and add 10 eggs, two or three at a time, 1 lb. 12 ozs. of currants, 10 ozs. of lemon peel cut into small slices, a little nutmeg and mace for seasoning, and lbs. of flour. Then make your almond paste for the above quantity as follows: Take 12 ozs. of sweet almonds ground, 1 oz. of bitter almonds ground, and 1 lb. of castor sugar; mix these well together, add 3 eggs and 1 glass of rum to make into a good-sized paste; cut this into as many pieces as you have cakes, roll them out a little under the size of your hoops, and then put half of your mixing in the hoops and level it off; then put your almond paste on the top and cover it with the remainder of your mixing; bake in a good sound oven, but not too hot, as the cake is rich and will require good soaking. When your cakes are nearly baked, get together some more almond paste, and use the following: 12 ozs. of ground almonds and 1 lb. of castor sugar, with sufficient white of eggs to make the mixture about the stiffness of macaroon paste ; spread this paste round the edge of the cake, so as to leave the middle bare, and use a fork so as to make it as rough-looking as pos- sible, then finish off the baking. When the cakes are cold, finish with dusting sugar on the top, and ornament them by putting some nicely cut green citron-peel on the top, such as hearts, diamonds, stars, or any- thing your fancy can suggest. 104.—Bury Simnels. These cakes, as made at Bury, in Lancashire, are something42 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. in appearance like the Selkirk bannocks, made in most towns in Scotland ; only the latter are taken from tea-cake or cookie dough, and are therefore fermented, whereas the former—as the following recipe will show—are not. Take 2 lbs. of good plain flour and t lb. of patent flour; make a bay, put in 1£ lbs. of moist sugar, 1% lbs. of butter, or butter and lard mixed; cream this inside of your bay, and add 8 eggs; after these ingredients are thoroughly mixed have weighed ready 2 lbs. of currants, 1 lb. of peel, and a little nut- meg ; mix all this into a nice dough, which may be weighed at i^lbs. for one shilling; mould them up round, glaze with egg on top, and put strips of peel on the top, with a few almonds betwixt the peel; bake in a similar oven to that required for almond simnel. Patent Flour is made as follows: 8 lbs. of good flour, with 4 ozs. of cream of tartar, and 2 ozs. of carbonate of soda sifted three times through a sieve. 105.—Maids of Honour. Sift 1 lb. of dry curd, and thoroughly mix with 12 ozs. of butter; beat the yolks of 8 eggs in a basin, with a little brandy and 12 ozs. of castor sugar; beat well together with two steamed or boiled cold potatoes, 2 ozs. each of sweet and bitter almonds ground or well pounded, the grated rind of 6 and the juice of 2 lemons and a grated nutmeg. Line some patty-pans with good puff paste, put some of the above mixture in each, and bake in a moderate oven. The above cakes took their name from the Maids of Honour who attended Queen Elizabeth at Richmond, on the Thames, and they are still in great request at that place. 106.—Another a?id more modern Way.—Beat up the whites of 7 eggs to a stiff froth, then take your spatula and mix in 1 lb.CHERRY CAKE, GINGERBREAD. 43 of castor sugar. After your sugar is properly dissolved, add io£ ozs. of sweet pounded almonds, and ij ozs. of ground rice; have some patty-pans lined with good paste, as for the above mixture, and after you have the above ingredients well beat with a spoon or a spatula, use a small quantity of cheese for your patty-pans; bake in a moderate cold oven. After they are baked and a little cool, just tip them on the top with a little water icing. 107. —Rich Cherry Cake. Take 10 lbs. of butter, 10 lbs. of sugar, 13 lbs. of eggs, 14 lbs. of flour, 7 lbs. of cherries, and 2 lbs. of mixed peel; let these ingredients be creamed as with ordinary cakes, and have a Genoa cake tin nicely papered; put your mixture in the tin 2i inches thick, and bake in a slack oven. 108. —Best Gingerbread. Take n lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of butter, 1£ lbs. of peel, 9 lbs. of treacle, ozs. of soda, f oz. of acid, 5 ozs. of ginger, and 2% ozs. of spice; dough up, and bake in round hoops (which should be greased) in a moderate oven, and after baking wash over with boiled gum. 109.—Ginger Fingers. Take 12 lbs. of flour, 2^ lbs. of butter, 2^ lbs. of brown sugar, | lb. of castor sugar, 9 ozs. of ginger, i£ ozs. of spice, 9 lbs. of treacle, i£ ozs. of carbonate of soda, and f oz. of tar- taric acid ; dough up like other biscuits, cut with a finger-cutter, and bake in slightly greased tins. 110.—Whole Meal Ginger Nuts. Take 14 lbs. of wheat meal, 2 lbs. of flour, 3 lbs. of butter, 5 lbs. of castor sugar, 8£ lbs, of treacle, 2 ozs. of soda, 1 oz. of44 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. tartaric acid, 5 ozs. of ginger, and 2% ozs. of mixed spice; rub the butter among the flour, then sift in the sugar, soda, and acid, and mix all together; make a bay, add treacle, ginger, and spice, and let them be well rubbed into the dough; roll out into sheets, and cut with a ginger-nut cutter; wash over with milk and put on greased tins ; bake in a sound oven. 111.—Scotch Shortbread. Take 1 lb. of butter, 2 lbs. of flour, and 8 ozs. of powdered sugar; mix the sugar in the butter, then take in the flour, and thoroughly mix and rub in all the ingredients until of a nice mellow colour and easy to work; weigh off the size re- quired and shape into square or round pieces; dock them on the top, notch them round the sides, and bake in a moderate oven on clean dry tins. 112. —English Shortbread. Take 1 lb. of flour, 8 ozs. of sugar, 8 ozs. of butter, and 2 eggs ; mix and bake as for Scotch shortbread. Ornament the tops with designs of neatly-cut lemon peel and carraway comfits. 113. —French Shortbread. Take 2 lbs. of flour, 12 ozs. of butter, 12 ozs. of sugar, £ oz. of powdered ammonia, and 4 eggs; make a bay, put in the eggs, sugar, and ammonia; beat them well with your hand, and then draw in the flour; make all into a nice dough, weigh them at 12 ozs., and chaff them out round; pin them out of a good breadth and mark them off into eight pieces; place a piece of peel on each and bake in a good oven. Cut the marked pieces with a sharp knife after they are baked. Shortbreads.—In making the above mixtures do not on any account use Hungarian flours, as they are too strong forSEA FOAM FLOUR, SNOW CAKE. 45 this class of goods, and you cannot work off your shortbread without its cracking and giving a deal of trouble, as well as spoiling the appearance of your cakes. Nothing beats good British flour of a softish nature for this class of goods. 114.—Sea-Foam Flour for Snow Cake. This is an article entirely for the use of private families, and is made as follows :—Take 16 lbs. of farina, or potato flour, 3 lbs. of good household flour, 7 lbs. of castor sugar, 1 lb. of arrowroot, 6 ozs. of carbonate of soda, and 4 ozs. of tartaric acid ; let the acid and soda be well dried before using, and see that the arrowroot is well bruised before adding it to the other ingredients; then mix all together and sift thoroughly through a small-sized wire sieve three times. Flour so prepared is put up in 1 lb. bags and sold at six- pence per lb. A delicious snow cake may be made by taking 1 lb. of the above mixture ; make a bay inside the flour on the table, cream in the bay 4 ozs. of butter, then add two eggs one at a time, and afterwards two tablespoonfuls of milk; then draw in the flour and thoroughly mix; put into a hoop nicely papered, and bake in a good oven.VI. PIES, PUDDINGS, AND CUSTARDS. 115.—A Creamed Apple Pie. Make a very nice apple pie with the best puff paste; and bake it in a slow oven with great care; then cut and bake a large star nearly the size of the inside. As soon as the pie is baked enough, cut the lid off and let it stand till cold ; make the apples up neatly, and if not very well filled add more apples previously baked; then pour on the apple a rich custard and place on the custard the star before named. 116.—To Ice Tarts. Whisk up one or two whites of eggs and wash over the top of the tarts with a soft brush ; cover the wet part with sifted sugar; damp the sugar with water from the brush until dis- solved, and then put the tarts immediately into a moderate oven. When near enough, ice them again as before. 117.—Apple Pie. Pare whatever quantity of apples you wish, and cut them in small pieces ; fill the dish, putting in sugar between the layers, also a little marmalade or orange-peel, and about half-a-dozen cloves; it is the better for as much water as will melt the sugar; then cover with a light crust. Some persons wash the top over and then dust with castor sugar.FRUIT PIES, MINCE PIES. 47 118.—Gooseberry Pie. Fill your dish with gooseberries, having first picked them; put on a good quantity of sugar and a very little water, and cover with a light crust. If preferred, wash it and dust with sugar. 119.—Currant Pie. First strip the currants from the stalks; then fill the dish with them, and put in a good deal of sugar, and cover with a good crust. 120.—Rhubarb Pie. Cut the rhubarb stalks into pieces an inch long, having previously either skinned the stalks or simply washed them ; fill the dish with them, putting in plenty of sugar, and cover with a nice crust. 121, —Mincemeat. Take i lb. beef suet, i lb. Naples biscuits, i lb. of apples and citron, i lb. raw sugar, i lb. of candied lemon and orange, 3 lbs. clean currants, a pint of raisin wine, and a gill of brandy. The suet must be picked and shred very fine, and the apples, sweetmeats, and biscuits must also be shred fine; mix all the ingredients together and put them into a jar; tie them over, and your mincemeat will keep good for twelve months. 122. —Mince Pie. Take a dozen of apples, and pare and mince them, along with equal parts of suet, raisins, and currants—well cleaned and picked—with some orange peel, ground ginger, and raw sugar; mix well, filling the dish with it, and pouring in a little currant or ginger wine to moisten. Cover with a good paste. It should have paste under as well as above the mincemeat, and the covering should be cut in small slits to show what the pie is composed of.4S PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 123.—Apricot Tart. Roll out a piece of puff paste about a quarter of an inch tfiick, then cut out a piece the size of a pudding plate; lay this on a clean sheet tin, wet the edge of this with the paste brush and an egg \ then place round it a border, one inch wide; ornament the border to make it look stylish; prick over the paste to prevent it blistering; sugar over with castor sugar, and bake a nice golden brown colour in a moderate oven. (See that it is properly baked : if not, it will fall when taken from the oven, and prove a failure at the dinner-table.) Then take one dozen apricots—not too ripe—cut them in halves, break the stones, and blanch the kernels, by placing them in boiling water for a few minutes. Place in a clean stew-pan half a pint of cold water, 12 ozs. of castor sugar, and the juice of 1 lemon, and let this come to a simmer to dissolve the sugar; then place in the apricots, and let them simmer very slowly for about five minutes, placing the kernels in also for the flavour; take them out very carefully on to a dish; reduce the liquor by boiling to a thick syrup, and then add a wineglassful of sherry. Place the apricots nicely round the tart, filling it all over inside the border, pour the syrup over, place a kernel in between every other apricot, then a crystallised cherry, and ornament the border with a little red currant jelly. This is very suitable for large hotels, as it is served cold and can be made at leisure. 124.—Apple Dumpling. Take 2 lbs. of flour and % lb. of butter; rub the butter into the flour quite fine, mix with cold water, then roll out the paste; have apples pared and cut in pieces, and lay them in the middle of the paste; add as much sugar as will sweeten them, and a spoonful of water; wet the paste well round the edges with cold water, and gather it nicely in the centre. Dust49 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. a little flour over it, and tie it up in a floured cloth ; it will take hree hours constant boiling. 125.—Jam Dumpling or Blanket. Prepare the paste as above, and spread it with jam, but leave 2 ins. bare all round; wet the edge with cold water, and roll your paste up like a pound of butter, pinching it well at both ends to make it keep close; flour the cloth, and roll it up cornerways, tying it at both ends very firmly; now put it into boiling water, and it will be ready in i| hours. 126.—Marrow Pastry. Blanch 4 ozs. of sweet almonds and a few bitter ones; pare 6 large apples, and cut both almonds and apples very small, or beat in a marble mortar, adding a bit of orange peel; take 1 lb. of marrow shred, a spoonful or two of flour, and the yolks of 4 eggs, the grated rind of a lemon, some ground cinnamon and raw sugar; mix all well, and add a glass of brandy; edge the plate or cover together as in a mince pie, and bake in a moderate oven. Whenever the paste is ready it will be fit to serve. 127.—Pancakes. Make a light batter of eggs, flour, and milk, according to the numbers you wish to make; fry them with a little butter or dripping, turning them in the pan; double them up, and serve with castor sugar dusted over them. A small teacupful of batter will be enough for one pancake. 128.—Macaroni Pudding. Simmer an ounce or two of pipe macaroni in pints of milk, with a bit of lemon and cinnamon, until tender : put it into a dish with two or three eggs, sugar, nutmeg, half a glass of sweet wine, or a spoonful of orange-flower water, and back with a paste round the edges of the dish. E50 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 129. —Bread and Butter Pudding. Cut slices of bread according to the size of your dish, spread each slice with butter, and sprinkle them with raw sugar; boil ii pints of milk, add to it 3 eggs well beaten, stirring it well all the time ; pour it over the bread in the dish, cover up, and send to the oven. 130. —Apple or Currant Fritters. Take a small teacupful of batter, as for pancakes, and pour it into the frying-pan; have ready a few apples, pared, cored, and cut in slices, and throw them into the frying-pan at equal distances; then take about half a cupful more of the batter, and throw’ it over them; then cut them in pieces with an apple in each section, turn them, and serve hot. Currant Fritters may be made the same way, only the cur- rants should be mixed with the batter before frying. 131.—Oatmeal Pudding. Take good oatmeal, as much as will nearly fill a tin pudding- dish ; add about four large spoonfuls of well-minced suet, plenty of pepper and salt, or to your taste, and set it under the meat when roasting so as to catch some of the dripping; put it pretty near the fire. 132.—Rice Pudding. Mash £ lb. of rice, and boil it till it is very soft; drain it, put it in the pie-dish with any kind of fruit you may fancy, and put 1 oz. of butter over it in small pieces; then pour your custard over and bake. 133.—Vermicelli or Macaroni Pudding. Vermicelli or macaroni, which has been previously boiled, may be done the same way as rice, as in the last recipe.DUMPLINGS, WHIPPED CREAM, TRIFLE. 51 134.—Lemon Dumplings. Chop the rind of one lemon fine, and add the juice to it; chop up i lb. of suet, mix with i lb. of bread crumbs, 1 egg, and enough milk or water to make a stiff paste; add the lemon, sweeten to taste, and divide your paste into five equal parts; boil in separate cloths for three-quarters of an hour. Then serve with butter and sugar, or some prefer a little honey. 135.—Simple Suet Dumpling. Take 1 lb. of flour, \ lb. of chopped suet, a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper; moisten with water until you have a stiff paste, and use when required. Dumpling paste so made may be rolled in small balls, and used in savoury pies, hash, or stews. 136. —To Whip Cream. Take the whites of 8 eggs, 1 quart of cream, and % pint of sherry; mix and sweeten them to your taste with lump sugar, first rubbing a lemon with it to procure the essence; whip it with a pure clean whisk in a flat earthen pan, and as the froth rises take it off on to a hair sieve. Let it stand as long as you can before you put it in your baskets or trifles. 137. —To make a Trifle. Provide a handsome glass and build in it a pyramid consist- ing of macaroni, ratafias, French savoys, fruit, and sponge biscuits; pour on every part a small quantity of sherry, and keep doing so till the whole is properly steeped. (Great care must be taken not to break any part). Then lay your whipped cream upon the biscuits in as romantic a manner as possible— the more it is like a rock and the higher it is the better—on the top place a sprig of myrtle, and round the sides ornament it with coloured sugar, green citron, and angelica. If you wish52 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. for a richer trifle, cover the pyramid of biscuits with a good custard before you lay on the whipped cream. 188.—To make a Custard. Boil i pint of milk with a bit of cinnamon and a little fresh lemon peel; mix in a pint of cream and the yolks of 7 eggs well beat, sweeten it to your taste, and give the whole a simmer until of a proper thickness, but not to boil; stir it the whole time one way with a small whisk until quite smooth; you may also, if desired, stir in a glass of brandy. 139.—Another Way.—Set a quart of thick cream in a stew- pan over the fire, with a bit of cinnamon and sugar to your taste; when it has boiled take it off and beat the yolks of 8 eggs; put to them 1 tablespoonful of orange-flower water, which will prevent the cream cracking; stir them in by degrees, and as the cream cools set the pan over a slow fire; stir it carefully one way until it nearly boils, then pour it into cups for the table. 140.— Almond Custards. Blanch and beat 4 ozs. of almonds very fine; put to them 1 pint of cream and a tablespoonful of orange-flower water; sweeten it to your taste; beat up the yolks of 4 eggs very fine, and stir all together one way over a slow fire until it thickens; then pour it into cups. 141. —Lemon or Orange Custards. Take the juice of 2 lemons and the rind of one pared thin; boil the inner rind of the lemon very tender, and pulp it through a hair sieve, adding sugar to your taste and r pint of sherry; let them boil for some time; then take out the peel and a little of the liquor; set it to cool, pour the rest into the dish you intend for it; beat up 3 yolks of eggs and 2 whitesCUSTARDS, PUFF PASTE. 53 very well, mix them with the cool liquor, strain them into a dish, and mix them all well together; set it on a slow fire in boiling water, and when it is thick enough, grate the rind of a lemon on the top. Orange Custard may be made the same way, only using oranges instead of lemons. 142.—A Baked Custard. Boil i quart of cream with some cinnamon. When cold take 6 yolks of eggs, a little orange-flower water, nutmeg, and sugar to your taste; mix all well together, and bake it in raised paste or cups. 143.—Paste for Baked Custards. Take 8 ozs. of butter and i lb. of flour; boil the butter in a small teacupful of water, mix it into the flour, make it very smooth, and raise it into any shape you please. 144.—Puff Paste. Take 3 lbs. of butter and 3 lbs. of flour; the butter must be tough ; if salt, wash it in two waters the night before it is used; take half of it and rub it in the flour; make it into a paste with pure water of the same stiffness as the butter; roll it on a marble slab about half an inch thick, spot it with small pieces of butter, and dust it with flour; then double it up and roll it out again; spot it as before, and roll it out again; spot it the third time ; then double it up again, roll it out again twice, and cut it into shreds about two inches broad, when it will be fit for use. 145.—Another Way.—You may make common puff paste this way proper for large pies by using only 1 lb. of butter to 2 lbs. of flour.54 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 146.—Another Way.—Take 2% lbs. of butter and 3^- lbs. of flour; mix the flour with water of the same stiffness as the butter, then roll out the paste, spot it with the butter thiee times, rolling it out and dusting it with flour as before; cut it in shreds for use. This paste is worse for lying, and should be baked as soon as possible. 147.—A Pyramid in Puff Paste. Take some best puff paste and roll it about a quarter of an inch thick; cut the first layer the size of the bottom of your dish, either the shape of the dish, or a diamond, or any other shape you please; cut about 10 or 12 more layers, reducing each half an inch in diameter all round ; give each a slit in the middle to make them rise regularly, ice the points, and bake them in a good oven. When cold place the largest on the dish with raspberry jam, the next with apricot marmalade, and so on to the smallest; then fix a sprig of myrtle on the top and spin some sugar round it, which will make it both firm and beautiful. 148.—To make a Handsome Tartlet. Take a large oval dish and sheet it with the best puff paste; cut it round the sides to make leaves, and fill it three-parts full with good preserved fruit; ornament on the fruit any device you please, such as a large star in cut paste, a sprig of flowers, or a tree; then bake it with great care, and serve it up the second course either with or without a spun sugar crocanth. 149.—Crisp Tart Paste. Take 1 lb. of butter and 2 lbs. of flour; rub the butter and flour very finely together, then mix it with water into paste the stiffness of the butter. This is a choice paste for tarts made of fresh fruit.TARTS, FRENCH PASTRY. 55 150.—Sweet Tart Paste. Take 6 ozs. of butter, 2 ozs. of sugar, and 4 lbs. of flour, beat two whites of eggs to a froth, rub the butter and flour very finely together, add a little water, and make the paste of a proper stiffness with the whites of eggs. 151.—French Pastry. Make and finish off some puff paste, and roll it out about one-eighth of an inch in thickness with a fluted cutter; cut out 24 of this size and glaze them over with egg; cut out 24 more with a cutter a size less; place these on your table or slab, and cut out the middle of them the same as for patty cases; put the rings carefully on the top of those first cut, so as to spring straight up in the oven : wash them over with egg, and bake in a good oven of a nice deep tint. When baked fill them with red currant jelly, then nicely ornament them with icing. 152.—Patisserie d’Amandes a la Conde. Take a piece of puff paste and roll out the thickness of a penny piece (scraps or trimmings will do) ; then, having previ- ously blanched 6 ozs. of Jordan almonds and cut them up into thin pellets, take the whites of 2 eggs, and 4 ozs. of icing sugar; mix the almonds in, spread the mixture over the paste, cut out in little squares, and bake in a moderately warm oven; dish up on a napkin and serve. 153.—Swiss Tarts. Make 1 lb. of flour, 10 ozs. of butter, and about half a pint of water into a stiffish paste; give this one turn, cut out the sizes required, dock them, and then nick them round the edge, place them on your sheet tin and place a piece of cork (or bread crust) on each tart; bake a nice colour in a moderate56 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. oven. When done take out the corks and put some apricot jam on each, and take some maringue mixture and spread about one inch thick over each tart; place some of the mixture in a paper cone and make a nice border round the edge, and some of your own designs around the sides ; dust over with fine sugar, and bake a nice colour. These tarts are generally sold at 2S. 6d. each. 154.—To make a Hedgehog. Take the weight of 9 eggs in sugar and 6 eggs in flour. Separate the whites from the yolks, put the sugar and yolks into an earthen pan and beat them well with the spatter; then whisk the whites very stiff and mix them with the flour, to be baked in a tin in the shape of a hedgehog. It must be buttered carefully with creamed butter, and when baked it must be stuck with Jordan almonds, cut the long way each into six pieces ; then it must be soaked in wine, and covered with a rich custard.VII. ICE CREAMS AND WATER ICES. 155.—Building an Ice-House. An ice-house should if possible be built on the side of a hill, and shaded with trees. If the soil is sand or gravel, it will require no drain. Let the wall be perpendicular and at least be two feet thick; on the bottom build five or seven pillars—according to the size of the house—two feet high; one in the centre, the others round the sides at a proper distance from each other near the wall. Make a basin at the bottom for water; upon these pillars lay beams of wood, and from them make a trellis. The door of the house should face the north; the passage should be five or six feet long, and be made in a zig-zag direction, to prevent a sudden gust of air; in it fix three or four doors of well-seasoned wood not likely to shrink and at least two inches thick. The house must be of a high pitch on the outside and covered well with clay. If not well shaded with trees, fix over the brick and clay a false roof, at least one foot from the brickwork, which roof must be well thatched. This is very essential, to prevent the sun from shedding its beams on the roof of the house; or should you thatch it close to the brickwork, the warmth of the thatch will do more harm than the rays of the sun, for which reason it is necessary to have a space for free air. Let a trench be made from each side of the door with a proper descent to58 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. throw off the water at the back part of the house; this will keep the walls dry on the outside. If the soil is clay, it will be necessary to make a drain from the basin at the bottom ; this, however, is a nice point, unless there is a common sewer or rivulet near for the drain to empty itself into. If not, the difficulty is great. To guard against the danger prepare an air-tight drain with a proper descent; at the ends of which dig a well for the drain to empty itself into, let there be a tight plug fixed at the end of the drain which must be taken out occasionally ; over the well fix a strong door and frame, which must be locked and the key entrusted to one servant only, whose business it must be to pay proper attention to the well, and dispose of the water from time to time. Procure your ice clear and free from grass: cover the trellis at the bottom with thorns or old gooseberry bushes, and not on any account with straw, for as soon as straw gets wet it heats and wastes the ice. Beat the ice small at the door of the house, and let one or two men keep beating it down as it is thrown in. If there is snow upon the ground, put in three or four loads at different times, which will fill up all crevices, and be of great use in levelling; fill up the house in this way, but put no straw round the sides of the house, nor on the top; and do not put any salt in the ice. Ice well beat down, in a house with a good drain and free circulation of air, may be preserved from all danger, but if the precautions I have in- dicated be neglected loss and waste will be inevitable. Eighteen feet in depth from the crown to the trellis, and twelve feet in diameter, are about the usual dimensions of an ice-house. 156.—Filling the Ice-House. When you can obtain plenty of ice two or three inches thick, do not neglect the opportunity, for if the house is ever59 ICE HOUSES, THE FREEZING TUB. so well filled at the first part of the winter, there will be space to fill up in a few weeks’ time. Tight doors will keep ice in great perfection without salt, whereas salt is certain to waste it. It certainly makes ice freeze a little at first, but as soon as its power is exhausted the ice begins to waste. When your house is well filled shut the door, and clay up all the crevices. Do the same to the next door; fill this passage with bundles of straw, and clay up the door as before. When you open the house shut yourself in the first passage, take out the straw from the second passage, and put it in the first passage, which will protect the ice from the air. You may then open the ice door and take out the ice you want. The doors must be clayed up with the same care as before, by which precaution you preserve your ice from all danger. If you fill a newly-built house, a board fixed next the wall may be of service, but remember to use no straw. For small quantities an ice-house is not advisable, as good fresh ice can be bought at any time in any town of reasonable size. 157.—The Freezing Tub. The tub should be made oblong or oval, the sides to be as upright as possible. It may be made to hold two or three freezing pots in length, leaving a sufficient space for the ice. It must have a false bottom, with some holes in it. In the side of the tub, near the bottom, make a hole for a peg, by which means you may draw off the water, a precaution highly nece ssary when freezing to prevent the water from ever getting into the freezing pot. Freezing tubs or freezing machines of various shapes, and embodying the latest improvements, can be had of the manu- facturers of bakers’ and confectioners’ utensils.60 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 158.—To Freeze Ices. If only one sort of ice, set the freezing pot in a small upright pail with two bottoms, &c. If two or three sorts, set your pots at a proper distance in the long pail; fill up the space with ice well beaten, mix with it three or four handfuls of salt, and press both ice and salt well down ; then take a clean cloth and make the tops of the pots clear of ice and salt; take off the tops and put into each the creams or waters previously mixed for them, taking care that the pots are not more than half full; then replace the top to each pot, draw the tub a little to one side, and turn each pot as quickly as possible. If you have two pots, turn one with each hand; if three, let one stand alter- nately. When you have turned the pots ten minutes, take off the tops and scrape the frozen cream down from each with an ice spoon; if the cream appears hard and “flinty” you may conclude it is not mixed rich enough; if on the other hand it does not freeze, it is over rich, and in either case it must be rectified. If right, proceed as before directed, and every ten minutes scrape down. When the cream in the pots appears nearly frozen, keep off the covers and work well with the ice spoon, making the pots turn round in the ice; this will make the cream both smooth and light. As soon as it appears pretty stiff, put on the tops and cover the pots well up with more ice and salt, until you have prepared your moulds to receive it. It may be necessary to remark here that you must have an ice spoon for each pot, or if using one spoon only, you must be careful'to wash it every time, to prevent a mixture of tastes. Another caution which you must always keep in mind when preparing ices, is that if the mixture is too poor it will freeze so hard and “ flinty ” that it cannot be used; and, on the other hand, if too rich it will not freeze at albICE CREAM IN MOULDS. 61 159.—To put Ice Cream into Moulds, Fruit Shapes, etc. Rub your moulds very bright, and fix on top and bottom with writing paper; take off the top and fill the mould with the frozen ice cream already prepared. It must be forced in very tight, that no holes may appear when turned out; then lay on the writing paper, fix on the top, and immediately cover it well over with salted ice. Go on in the same way until the wThole is put into moulds; then lay them on one side upon ice, in a tub with two bottoms, cover them well over with salted ice, which must be pressed tightly down, and in one hour the ice cream will be hard enough to turn out; bpt should it be wanted sooner a little saltpetre beat small and mixed with the salt will be of great advantage. If the ice cream is to be put in shapes to represent ripe fruit proceed as follows : Suppose it is apricot moulds you wish to use, when they are ready open them and colour the inside a pale yellow ; with a small brush which has been dipped in lake finely ground, colour the sides of the mould in part; then take a small bit of whisk, dip it in the lake, and spot the mould a little with it, after which fill both sides very full and put them together; wrap the shape in strong brown paper, to keep the salt from penetrating the opening of the mould, then immerse it well in salted ice. For peach, pear, pineapple, &c., the mould must be appro- priately coloured in the same manner. When you wish to turn out your shapes, you must have everything in readiness to receive them, and never turn them out before the ice of each is wanted. Take each mould and wash it well in plenty of cold water, then rub it dry with a towel; take a strong knife, and- force off the top ; rub the top very clean, then take away the paper, and place the top on;62 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. do the same with the other end, after which take the mould in your hands (having previously taken off both top and bottom), and let the shape of ice drop on to the dish on which it is to be served at table. Repeat this with every mould, doing it in as short a time as possible, and serve immediately. The ices in natural shapes must be turned out in the same way and laid upon the dish, when you may put a natural stalk into each and garnish them with their own leaves. 160.—To mix Strawberry Ice Cream. Pulp i quart of scarlet strawberries with a wood spoon through a hair sieve ; mix in i lb. of sifted lump sugar, and add i quart of cream; mix all well together, and proceed to freeze as directed. 161.—Strawberry Ice from Strawberry Jam. Pulp i lb. of strawberry jam through a hair sieve; add the juice of a lemon and i quart of cream; colour it with lake finely ground, and freeze as before. 162.—Fresh Raspberry Ice. Pulp i quart of raspberries with a wood spoon through a hair sieve; mix in % lb. of sifted lump sugar (or sugar to your taste); add i quart of cream, and freeze as before. 163.—Raspberry Ice from Jam. Pulp i lb. of raspberry jam through a hair sieve; add the juice of a lemon and i quart of cream; make it a fine colour with prepared cochineal, and freeze as before. 164.—Fresh Apricot Ice. Blanch and beat fine a few kernels; put them through a hair sieve with ripe orange apricots : if they will not pass the sieve,ICES FROM FRUITS. 63 they must be boiled in a small quantity of water, the water drained from them, and the apricots pulped through to 1 lb. of pulp ; add 6 ozs. of sugar and 1 quart of cream, mix all together, and freeze as before. 165.—Apricot Ice from Marmalade. Blanch and beat fine a few bitter almonds; pass them through a hair sieve, add 12 ozs. of apricot marmalade, the juice of a lemon, and 1 quart of cream, all of which must be mixed by degrees; then freeze as before. 166.—Greengage Ice from Fresh Fruit. This must be mixed exactly as the fresh apricot ice. 167. —Peach Ice from Fresh Fruit. Blanch and beat fine a few kernels of peaches; put the half peaches in a small pan, as close as you can, and cover them with pure water; boil until the fruit is quite tender, and then pulp through a hair sieve, with the beaten kernels, to 1 lb. of pulp; add the juice of a lemon, 8 ozs. of sifted sugar (or sugar to your taste), and 1 quart of rich cream; mix all well together, and freeze as before. 168. —Peach Ice from Marmalade. Blanch and beat fine a few bitter almonds; pass them through a hair sieve, and add 12 ozs. of marmalade, the juice of a lemon, and 1 quart of cream—all to be mixed in by degrees ; then freeze as before. If you wish this cream to be coloured, the yolk of a duck’s egg may be used. 169.—Red Currant Ice from Fresh Fruit. Put 2 quart? of picked red currants into a jar, cover the jar,04 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. and set it in a slow oven until the currants are dissolved ; then pulp them through a hair sieve, and to i lb. of pulp add 12 ozs. of sugar (or sugar to your taste); when cold mix in 1 quart of cream, and freeze as before. 170. -—Barberry See from Fresh Fruit. Pick the barberries and put them into ajar; dissolve them in a slow oven, and then pulp them through a hair sieve; to 1 lb. of pulp add 12 ozs. of sifted sugar, and 1 quart of rich cream ; freeze as before. 171. —Barberry Ice from Marmalade. Mix 1 quart of cream by degrees with 12 ozs. of mar- malade, and freeze as before. 172. —Damson Ice from Fresh Fruit. Put the damsons into a stone jar, cover the jar and set it in a slow oven ; when the damsons are dissolved pulp them through a fine hair sieve; to 1 lb. of pulp add 12 ozs. of sifted loaf sugar; when cold mix in 1 quart of cream, and freeze as before. 173. —Damson Ice from Marmalade. Take 12 ozs. of marmalade, and 1 quart of cream; mix them together as smooth as possible, and freeze as before. 174.—Lemon ice Cream. Lemon skins must always be kept in water, constantly removing it for fresh; boil six or eight skins soft; pulp them through a hair sieve; then take the juice of as many lemons, first straining the juice, and mix the pulp and juice together; to which add 12 ozs. of sugar, and 1 quart of rich cream, mixing all wel ltogether, and freeze as before.ICES AND ICE CREAMS. 65 175.—Pistachio Ice. Blanch and beat until fine the kernels of 6 ozs. of Pistachio nuts; then whisk up six eggs, and mix them with the rind of a lemon, a small bit of cinnamon and mace, half a pound of sifted sugar, and 1 pint of cream; boil all together until it comes to a curd, then take it off and mix in the Pistachio nuts ; pass the whole through a hair sieve, and freeze as before. 176. —Biscuit Ice. Break 6 eggs into a stew-pan; beat them well (with a wood spoon with holes in it); add 1 pint of cream, the rind of a lemon, a bit of cinnamon, and 1 pint of clarified sugar; boil it until it thickens, stirring it all the time; crumble in a Naples biscuit, and some ratafias; pass the whole through a sieve, and freeze as before. 177. —Ginger Ice. Beat 4 ozs. of preserved ginger very fine in a marble mortar; add half a pint of ginger syrup, the juice of a lemon, and 1 pint of cream; mix it well together, and freeze as before. 178.—Prince of Wales Ice. The freezing pot being properly fixed in ice, as before directed, pour into it 1 pint of good cream; whisk it round until the cream hangs to the whisk; then take the whisk out and stir in 2 ozs. of beaten sugar; work it very light with the ice spoon, and when stiff put it into moulds and reeze as before. 179.—Royal Ice Cream. Take two eggs and the yolks of eight more; whisk them well up, and add the rind of 1 lemon, 1 pint of syrup, 1 pint ef cream, a bit of cinnamon, and a tablespoonful of orange-flower F66 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. water; mix all well together in a stew-pan, stirring it well over a clear fire until it thickens; then pass it through a hair sieve, and freeze as before; as soon as it is pretty stiff put in a little of each of the following, viz. citron, lemon, orange, and blanched Pistachio nuts—all shred very small and mixed in just before you put the ice-cream into the moulds. 180.—Brown Bread Ice Cream. Your freezing pot being properly fixed in ice, pour in i pint of rich cream; whisk it round until it hangs to the whisk; then take out the whisk and mix in 3 ozs. of sifted sugar; work it very light with the ice spoon, and as soon as it is pretty hard mix in a handful of stale brown bread previously put through a fine wire sieve ; then work it well again with the ice spoon, and as soon as pretty hard put it up into moulds. 181. —Burnt Almond Ice. Whisk up 4 eggs, to which add 1 pint of cream and one of clarified sugar, and boil in a stew-pan, stirring it all the time until it thickens; then pass it through a hair sieve and freeze as before. When you put in the ice-spoon to work the pot round, put in a handful of burnt almonds, previously beaten and sifted through a coarse wire sieve. When properly frozen, put the mixture up into moulds and freeze as before. 182. —Burnt Filbert Ice. Take the kernels of filberts and roast some of them; beat in a mortar and pass them through a wire sieve; then whisk up 4 eggs, to which add 1 pint of cream and one of clarified sugar; boil as before in a saucepan until the mixture thickens, then pass it through a hair sieve and freeze as before. When you pour into the moulds, put a few filbert kernels into each.67 ICES AND ICE CREAMS. 183.—Prunella fee. Break 4 eggs into a stew-pan, and add 1 pint of cream and one of clarified sugar; boil the mixture until it thickens, then mix in prunella spice to your taste, pass it through a hair sieve, and freeze as before. 184.—Parmesan Cheese Ice. Break 6 eggs, to which add 1 pint of cream and £ pint of clarified sugar; mix all together and boil it till it thickens ; then rasp in 3 ozs. of parmesan cheese; pass the whole through a sieve and freeze as before. 185. —Tea Ice Cream. Make some strong tea of the best quality, to which add \ pint of clarified sugar and 1 pint of good cream; mix well together and freeze as before. 186. —Coffee Ice Cream. Take 1 oz. of whole coffee and put it into a stewpan with 1 pint of cream; simmer it over a slow fire for ten minutes and then strain it; break 4 eggs into a stew-pan and add £ pint of clarified sugar and the cream from the coffee; give it a boil, stirring it all the time, and then pass through a hair sieve and freeze as before. 187.—Chocolate Ice Cream. Melt 2 ozs. of chocolate before the fire; break 6 eggs, to which add 1 pint of cream and £ pint of clarified sugar; mix them in a stew-pan and boil until the mixture begins to thicken; then mix in the chocolate, pass it through a sieve, and freeze as before,68 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 188. —Seville Orange Ice from Fresh Fruit. Grate the rind of 2 oranges into a basin, add the juice of 6 or 8 oranges and 2 lemons, 2 pints of cream and 2 pints of clarified sugar; mix all together, pass it through a hair sieve, and freeze as before. 189. —Seville Orange Ice from Marmalade. Put 1 lb. of smooth orange marmalade into a basin and add the juice of 2 lemons; mix in by degrees 1 quart of cream, pass through a hair sieve, and freeze as before. 190. —Pineapple Ice from Fresh Fruit. Squeeze the juice from a small pine, then slice the pine thin and lay it in a flat pudding-pot; sprinkle beaten sugar on the top, cover it over and set in a slow oven until melted; pulp it through a hair sieve and add the juice, with 1 quart of cream, and sugar to your taste; then freeze as before. 191. —Pineapple Ice from Marmalade. Take 4 ozs. of marmalade, mix with it 1 pint of pine syrup, the juice of 2 lemons, and r quart of cream; mix all together, pass through a hair sieve, and freeze as before. If you wish your ice cream to resemble a pine in colour, use a little strong saffron. If you put it into a pine shape, colour the top when turned out with a soft camel’s hair brush dipped in the juice of spinach. 192.—Melon See Cream. Squeeze the juice from a ripe melon, then cut the melon into pieces and put it into a small saucepan; cover it with water, boil until tender, and then pulp it through a hair sieve ; add the juice to the pulp, with \ lb. of sugar and 1 quart of cream for 1 Ibi of pulp; mix all together, and freeze as before*tv A TER ICES. 69 193. —Lemon Water Ice. Prepare as much lemonade as you think proper, and freeze it ; if you want it for moulds let it be as hard and white as snow before you put it up; it must be forced down into the moulds, so that no holes may appear. 194. —Orange Water Ice. Prepare orangeade in the quantity desired, and observe the same directions as for lemon water ice. 195. —Currant Water Ice. Take 1 pint of red currant juice, % pint of clarified sugar (or sugar to your taste), and 1 quart of soft water; mix together, strain through a fine hair sieve, and freeze as before. 196. —Strawberry Water Ice. Pulp 1 quart of scarlet strawberries through a hair sieve; add to it 1 pint of clarified sugar and 1 quart of water; mix all together, and freeze as before. ■ 197. —Raspberry Water Ice. Pulp 1 quart of raspberries through a hair sieve; add i lb. of sifted sugar (or sugar to your taste), and 1 pint of soft water; mix all together, pass it through a sieve, and freeze as before. 198. —Barberry Water Ice. This should be mixed in the same way as red currant ice. Freeze as before. 199. —Winesour Water Ice. Fill a jar with winesours, dissolve them in a slow oven, and pulp them through a hair sieve to 1 lb. of pulp; add 12 ozs. of sugar and 1 quart of water, and freeze as before.70 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 200.—Damson Water Ice. This should be prepared exactly the same way as winesour ice. 201.—China Orange Water Ice. Take 12 china oranges, rub the skins of a couple of them with lump sugar to gain the essence; then squeeze the juice from the whole, and add sugar to your taste with 1 quart of water; pass through a fine sieve, and freeze as before. 202.—Apricot Water Ice. Take 12 orange apricots ; bruise the kernels of half of them, and put them into a small saucepan with the apricots; cover them with soft water, and boil them until the apricots will pulp through a hair sieve ; add ^ pint of clarified sugar and 1 pint of water, mix all together, and freeze as before directed. 203. —Green Gooseberry Water Ice. Take ripe green gooseberries, pick and put them into a strong jar, set them in a slow oven to dissolve, and then pulp them through a hair sieve to 1 lb. of pulp; add i lb. of sifted sugar and 1 pint of soft water, then freeze them as before directed. 204. —Red Gooseberry Water Ice. This may be mixed exactly the same way as green goose- berry ice. 205. —Morelia Cherry Water Ice. Pick and stone some Morelia cherries; put in a stone jar and dissolve them in a slow oven; pulp them through a hair sieve to 1 lb. of pulp, add ^ lb. of sifted sugar (or sugar to your taste), and 1 quart of water; freeze them as before.WATER ICES. 7* 206.—Mulberry Water Ice. Press and pulp ripe mulberries through a hair sieve ; for 1 lb. of pulp allow i lb. of sifted sugar and 1 quart of soft water; mix and pass it through a hair sieve, and freeze as before. 207.—Peach Water Ice. Break the kernels of a few peaches, and put them into a small saucepan with one dozen or more of the half peaches; cover with soft water and simmer them on a slow fire until all are dissolved; pulp them through a hair sieve to 1 lb. of pulp; add £ pint of clarified sugar and 1 quart of water, and freeze as before. 208. —Nectarine Water Ice. This is to be prepared and mixed in exactly the same way as peach ice. 209. —Pineapple Water Ice. Pare and squeeze a small pine; cut it very fine, and put into a pudding pot with sifted sugar between the layers ; set it in a slow oven until dissolved, then pulp it through a hair sieve, and add the pine juice to it, with sugar to your taste, and as much water as will make it a rich mixture; then freeze it as before. If you wish the ice to be the colour of the pine, add a little fine prepared saffron.VIII. JELLIES. 210.—Calf’s-fcot Jelly. Take a gang of calfs’ feet, well cleaned, and with 4 quarts of water simmer it gradually for four hours to 2 quarts; then strain and let the liquor stand all night; next morning take off the fat and the sediment from the bottom ; add 4 whites of eggs well whisked, a bottle of sherry, the juice of 3 lemons, a few coriander seeds tied up in a bag, 4 ozs. of isinglass dissolved in a pint of boiling water, and sugar to your taste ; set it on a clear fire and let it boil fifteen minutes; then run it through a jelly bag until quite fine and clear. Dip your moulds in water before you fill them. 211.—A?iother Way.—Take the jelly as above made, and in peach or apricot moulds put it in a stew-pan with yolks of 3 eggs, the juice of 2 oranges, and a bit of sugar; set it on the fire and stir it all the time until nearly boiling; take it off and let it stand till nearly cold ; then brush the peach and apricot moulds with a little sweet oil, dip your brush into lake and colour the sides of your moulds with it, fill the moulds with the jelly and let them stand until stiff. Then open them carefully and lay the jelly in a glass bowl, placing in the end of the fruit a natural stalk; garnish with natural leaves, and so serve. 212.—To Ornament Jelly. As jelly put into moulds should be particularly strong, a little stock from isinglass, mixed with the calf’s foot stock, will beJELLIES. 73 of great use. When you intend to introduce fruit fix your moulds in salt, then fill them half full of jelly; let it stand until set, and then place on it a large strawberry just plucked, with the leaf and stalk on it; fill up the mould with jelly. You may also introduce in other moulds cherries or peaches or other fruit; but this can only be done when fruit is in season. When it is not, wafer paper painted as such or in landscape, and laid upon the dish with the shape of jelly turned upon it, has a very good effect. 213.—A Corner Dish or Fish Pond. Fill a handsome glass bowl half full of clear calf’s foot jelly; let it stand until set, then place on it three or four small fish made of gum paste and coloured neatly, or these may be made of strong blancmange from moulds constructed for the purpose. You may ornament one or two of them with leaf gold and the other with silver. Fill up the bowl with jelly within half an inch of the top, and let it stand until quite stiff. Take green sugar and run it round on the surface of the jelly half an inch wide next to the glass; you may also run orange-coloured sugar about a quarter of an inch wide in the middle of the green to represent a “walk on the green.” Shells made of gum paste, called dragees, may also be introduced. Then place on the jelly three or four swans modelled in different atti- tudes. If these are well executed, and the bowl filled and ornamented as directed, it will have a very pleasing effect. 214.—Maraschino Jelly. This is made with 6 liqueur glasses of maraschino with a quart of clarified calf’s-foot jelly. Fruit cut into quarters may be added. 215.—Gold or Silver Jelly —or both mixed—is made with eau-de-vie de Dantzic by mixing the gold and silver leaves with a little jelly and74 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. ornamenting the bottom of the mould with it. Place in ice until set, and then fill with very clear calf’s-foot jelly. Gold jelly can also be made by cutting up a quarter-sheet of gold in a glass of brandy. 216. —Lemon Jelly. Take 2 calfs-feet and 2 quarts of water and simmer gently to half the quantity; as the scum rises take it off and strain it. Next morning take off the fat and the sediment; take 12 lemons and pare 1 very fine for the jelly to run upon, then rub 3 to procure the essence; whisk up well 8 whites of eggs, and add them to the stock with the juice of the lemons, a stick of cinnamon, and sugar to your taste. Let it boil five minutes, then take it off the fire and let it stand five minutes before you put it into the jelly-bag; pass it through three or four times, and as soon as clear put the pared skin of lemon into the bowl for the jelly to run upon. When cold put it into your moulds and let it stand all night. 217. —Orange Jelly. Pare 4 Seville oranges very fine, take 3 ozs. of isinglass and 3 pints of water; simmer the orange peel and the isinglass in the water until reduced to half the quantity; let it stand till cold, then add the juice of 12 oranges, and sugar to your taste, with \ a pint of brandy. If you wish to have it clear make it hot and run it through the jelly-bag. 218.—Hartshorn Jelly. Simmer 6 ozs. of hartshorn shavings in 3 pints of water, until reduced to half the quantity; simmer also with it the rinds of 3 oranges and i lemon pared thin ; when cold add the juice oi both, and sugar to your taste; whisk up the white of 4 eggs, mix all together, and let it boil ten minutes. Then strain through a jelly-bag until clear.IX. ORNAMENTAL SUGAR WORK. To enter upon a copious dissertation on the different methods of building centre-pieces and their dependants for tables would involve much labour, and would convey neither instruction nor amusement: for this branch of confectionery, as well as some others, may with justice be styled mechanism, as much so as a clock or a watch. But such instruction as may be useful in such a work as the present I shall feel pleasure in making as clear as possible. Amateurs I would advise to avail themselves of any opportunity to take a few lessons in this branch from a skilled workman, and instruction so gained should, with the help of this treatise, make them sooner or later proficient in the whole science. 219.—To make Gum Paste. Put any quantity of picked gum-dragon into an upright earthen jar; cover it with cold water, and let it stand two or three days; meanwhile beat and sift fine loaf sugar through a lawn or cypress sieve; take the gum into a coarse piece of canvas, which should be rolled up, and let a second person assist in twisting the roll round until the whole of the gum has passed through ; beat it well in a mortar to make it tough and white, then add sugar by degrees, still beating it with the pestle; when it is stiff take it out and keep it in an earthen jar for use. When worked into ornaments it will require a little starch76 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. powder to smooth and make it proper for use. If you wish to colour any part of it, use lake finely ground; for yellow, use strong saffron ; for green, the juice of spinach. 220.—To Ornament a Cake with Gum Paste. The gum paste must be made according to the directions given above. It must be tough with gum, and worked up to a proper stiffness with starch powder before you use the moulds. These must be dusted with starch powder tied up in a piece of cloth. The paste must be rolled out on a marble slab, put tight down into the moulds, and cut off with a smooth, sharp knife. Take out as many borders as will go round the bottom of the cake and lay them on a board. If they do not come out very readily, put a bit of gum paste to them in different parts ; give it a touch, jerk it, and the border, &c., will come out immediately. Then touch the border with a camel’s-hair brush, dipped in thin gum water; place it neatly on the bottom of the cake, and so on until it is ornamented all round. Be careful to make the joinings so as not to be observed. Then take out more borders of a different pattern for the top, after- wards take out trophies for the sides, tops, and ends; or if you wish to raise the top of the cake you may model the family crest or any other device you please. 221.—To Raise the Top of a Cake with Twisted Paste. Roll a piece of gum paste perfectly even upon a marble slab; take it off the slab, and lay it upon a smooth board; lay a ruler upon it, and cut it with a sharp knife : when cut it must be square ; take hold of each end and give it a twist; turn the ends and fix them together to make a small loop; twist a number in this way, and lay them on an even board. Next morning set as many of them up on a side with soft gum pasteORNA MENTA L SUGAR WORK. 77 as will make an oval on the top of the cake, and let them dry; then fix another round upon them, and so on until it comes to a point. This makes a very neat finish when well executed. 222.—To make a Fountain in Gum Paste. This is an ornament for the top of a cake. Roll out a piece of gum paste square, as before; cut it into long lengths, twist them, and lay them on a smooth board; bend them towards one end, and so on until you have a good number in the same way; then turn a piece of paste about three inches long upon around rolling-pin; next morning set it up in the middle of the top of the cake; fix it with soft gum paste, and as many gum-paste leaves as will go round it; when dry, fix the crooked paste round it in different heights, so as to represent a fountain. This device makes a beautiful middle piece for a small table, or an end or corner piece for a large one. 223. —A Sponge Cake as a Melon Ornamented with Fruit. Take a nice sponge cake baked in a melon mould; roll out long lengths of gum paste very fine, and place one in each niche of the cake; then lay gum-paste leaves at a distance on each side of the stalk, after which roll out a piece of paste the thickness of a natural stalk; cut it aslant at one end, about two inches in length; lay on one end of the melon four or five leaves, and in the middle fix the stalk before named; then model fruit, such as apricots, grapes, pears, or plums; fix them on the leaves placed in the niches of the cake. If they are well executed they will have a pleasing effect. 224. —A Sponge Cake as a Melon Ornamented with Flowers. Place strings of gum paste as before in the niches of the78 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. melon; then leaves, on which fix flowers of different sorts, which, if you cannot model yourself, you may procure of any working confectioner. 225.—A Sponge Cake to represent a Ripe Melon. Make a large basinful of very light icing (for instructions for making the same see page 80); then divide the icing into three basins; colour one a pale yellow-green, the next a darker green, and the third darker than the second; then lay the melon cake with the top downwards, and ice the then top with the palest green icing, putting a tinge or two of the other colours; then set it in a warm stove to dry, after which turn it and ice the top neatly with the pale green, then in parts with the second colour, and after that with the third. Care must be taken that the icing is not too thin. Let it stand in a warm stove for half an hour, after which put it in a moderate oven for five minutes, which will make it sprout a little; when cold, place a very short gum-paste stalk at one end of the same colour. 226.—To Ornament a Sponge Cake as a Pyramid. Provide a mould in the shape of a pyramid and bake a sponge cake neatly in it; or you may procure single heights, which may be much easier—that is, provide a tin rim the size of the bottom of the dish, and two or three inches deep; then procure five or six rims the same depth and the same shape, but each one an inch less, which will bring it to a very small oval. When baked, cut each one off by the tin and fix them together with a little icing; ornament each height with a handsome border, and place birds in different attitudes on the pyramid. This will make a really superb dish if ornamented with taste.79 ORNAMENTAL WORK FOR CAKES. 227.—To Ornament a Sponge Cake as a Turban. Provide a copper mould in this shape, and bake a sponge cake neatly in it. When cold, ornament it with some hand- some borders on the foldings, cutting off the bottom part of the borders to make them represent rich lace; then fix one or two feathers on the side, which will give it a neat effect. 228.—To Ornament a Cake as a Basket of Flowers. Bake a sponge cake in a tin mould in the shape of a basket, ornament it as such, and twist a wreath of gum paste round the top; make two handles of gum paste and place them one at each end; then model flowers of different sorts and fill the basket well with them. 229. —An Ornamental Cake as a Flower Pot. Bake a sponge cake in a small flower pot, make a bottom of gum paste of the same colour as the cake in the bottom of a flower pot; next morning fix the cake upon it, and ornament both in a handsome manner; then cover the top of the cake with writing-paper, wash it over with gum water, and cover it with green or brown rough sugar; tie five or seven pieces of cap wire together at one end, open the other and brush them over with soft green paste; when dry wrap a piece of writing- paper round the bottom part and force it down into the cake; fix on each wire a gum-paste flower—either roses or carnations will have a pleasing effect if flavoured with the proper essence. 230. —An Ornamented Cake as an Elephant. Bake a sponge cake in a copper mould of the above shape; when cold, turn a very handsome border round each leg; as soon as that work is dry, set it on its feet; then turn a border round its nose and ears; let a nice ornament fall down its fore-So PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. head, ornament the back so as to represent a castle, in which place several individuals with white turbans on their heads, and one or two of them with flags in their hands. 231.—To make Custard Cups. Take turkey eggs and cut each across at the thick part (five make a set), dry the inside of the shell, then roll out pink or blue gum paste very thin; cover each shell with it, and the tops also; model five small pedestals and fix one cup upon each; when dry ornament them neatly with white gum paste, and put a small leaf upon the top to take hold of. If you finish them neatly, they will be both useful and ornamental. 232.—Ornamental Baskets. There are various designs for baskets. When you wish to make any you must provide yourself with a tin mould of the shape you desire ; then cut off your gum paste from the mosaic board and place it neatly in the mould; when dry you may ornament it to your fancy. Pink and white gum paste is a very neat arrangement, or blue with gold handles. The foregoing directions will be sufficient to give a brief idea how to ornament cakes. To attempt to do more here, or to enter generally into ornamental work, would be quite out of place, as no one can attain to that art except by considerable practice. 233.—To Prepare Icing for Cakes, Biscuits, etc. Put, say, eight whites of fresh eggs into a large pan or basin, and take fine icing sugar and one spoonful of soft gum-dragon ; beat all together with a spoon or spatter, adding at intervals a little lemon juice, which will assist the colour; keep beating itICING, ALMOND ICING, PIPING CAICES. 81 up till very light, which you may know by its rising to double the quantity : this is a certain criterion of lightness. If you want icing for cakes, you must test the stiffness by taking up a little with a spoon and dropping it on a tin plate : if it keeps its shape it is of a proper consistency to lay on cakes, but if it runs it must be made stiffer. Icing can be made without the gum-dragon, but I think its addition is a decided improvement. 234.—Almond Icing for Bride Cakes. Take i lb. of Valentia almonds and 2 lbs. of icing sugar, with 4 whites and 2 yolks of eggs; blanch and beat the almonds fine with white of egg, then add the sugar and remainder of the whites, and beat them well together until you make them into a softish paste. As soon as the cake is baked, take it out and take off the hoop and paper carefully from the sides; then put the almond icing carefully on the top of the cake, and make it as smooth as you can ; put the cake back into the oven and let it remain until the almond paste is firm enough and the colour of a macaroon; let it stand two or three hours and then ice it. 235.—Piping Cakes. Paper cones are used for piping cakes, but the handiest way is with a water-tight bag and screw with a set of tubes, which can be had of any manufacturer of bakers’ or confectioners’ utensils, or from the author of this work. GX. JOINTS AND MEAT DISHES. 236.—Joints of Beef. The best roasting pieces are sirloin, spare-rib, and the head of a huck bone. A large sirloin will take 2£ hours to roast. Have a clear, brisk fire, baste the meat well with dripping when it first goes to the fire, but keep it at a distance at first, for if it once gets hardened on the outside it will never roast properly afterwards, but will be red at the bone even though it look burnt on the outside. All meat should be sprinkled with a little salt while roasting, and garnished with a little scraped horse-radish, and the gravy —made with boiling water—should be poured over any brown bone or corner, but not over all the meat. A spare-rib will take 3 hours to roast, and the head of the huck bone about 2rjr hours. 1 he nicest boiling pieces are a round and a rump, which are good either fresh or salted, and may be sent to the table sur- rounded either with turnips and carrots or greens. A breast or runner of beef is very nice when salted, either with or without saltpetre. It will take for a round or breast about 2 ozs. of saltpetre, which should be mixed with the salt, and sparingly put on at first for a night or two ; then put on all the rest of the salt, and rub and turn the meat every other day for a fortnight, when it will be fit for use. Any of the other pieces make excellent broth; the rump and spare-rib do best for steaks.83 JOINTS AND DISHES OF BEEF. 237.—Beef Steaks. These should be cut pretty thick, and done on a clear fire, the gridiron being made hot before the steaks go on. They should be constantly turned to prevent the juice running out. They will do in ten minutes if the fire be good. A little shalot should be minced and laid on the dish, and then the steaks laid above it, with a sprinkling of salt between each steak to bring out the juice. 238.—To stew a Round. Put on the round without any water, to give it a brown; then add as much water as will prevent it burning, with carrots, turnips, and a few onions. 239.—To stew Beef in Slices. Cut any lean piece of beef in slices, beat it well, and sprinkle it with pepper and salt, then roll it up, and if you wish it to look particularly well rub it over with the yolk of an egg; dust it with flour and brown it nicely in a little dripping; add as much water as will nearly cover it, well thickened with flour, and brown it altogether for a minute, then stew very slowly for two or three hours. This makes a very nice dish. 240.—Minced Meat or Collops. Any piece of lean beef, if well minced, makes good collops, and about lbs. make a good side dish. They should be well beat in the frying-pan with a beater before they heat, other- wise they will run in knots; they should be thickened with a little flour and water. A little fish sauce or catsup is an im- provement. A quarter of an hour or twenty minutes will do them, but if done slowly, longer will not spoil them.84 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 241.—Scotch Collops. Cut beef as if for stew; brown in a little butter or dripping, just enough to keep your meat from burning, then brown each side of the slices in the frying-pan; put them to one side, and put in a little water for gravy, adding salt and a little shalot. 242.—To dress Cow’s Head. Soak the head in water and well clean it. Boil till it goes to pieces, then take it out of the pot, and when cold cut it down into small neat pieces—gristle and all that will cut—then put it on with the liquor (after the latter has been searched) with plenty of mixed spice, according to taste, and when it is well boiled down add catsup, and put in shapes to turn out when wanted; garnish with pickles of red cabbages or beet-root. Cow-heel done with it is an improvement. 243.—Joints of Mutton. Legs, saddles, or shoulders are the best roasting pieces. A leg will take about an hour and a half to roast; to boil it will take two hours and a half. For those who dislike leg of mutton boiled in broth it is a good plan to keep the liquor it is boiled in and make broth the following day. The boiled leg should be garnished with turnips and carrots, and should have a few capers mixed in the gravy and poured over it when sent to the table. 244. —Mutton Chops. These are best when cut from the thick part of a leg of mutton or back ribs; broil them on a hot gridiron, and do them like beef steaks ; garnish with pickles. 245. —Mutton Hash. Cold roast mutton makes an excellent hash ; cut down small, boil the bones first to make the gravy, then take them out andMUTTON, VEAL. 85 put in the meat, but do not let it boil fast, as that would make it hard—only keep it near the boil for a few minutes; season with pepper, salt, a little catsup, or any rich sauce, and garnish with pickles. 246.—Veal. A fillet of veal makes a good roast, but it requires more roasting than beef or mutton. It should be well basted with butter, and while roasting, half an hour before ready, dusted with flour; the gravy is made of flour and water boiled with a squeeze of lemon and salt and a little of the dripping. 247. —Veal Cutlets. These are cut from the fillet, or any lean piece of veal, in thin slices ; beat them well and dust them with flour; brown them nicely with butter, then add a little water thickened with flour, and brown all together of a nice light brown—a few minutes will do it; add a squeeze of lemon, with salt to your taste. 248. —To stew Veal. Take a breast, loin, or fillet of veal, rub it with the yolk of an egg, then brown it of a nice colour with a little butter ; have ready a little veal gravy made up of any scrap or bone, well thickened with flour ; season with a little catsup, a squeeze of lemon, and salt to your taste; brown all well together, and let it stew till tender. A loin will take about 2\ hours, the other pieces rather more. 249.—Stuffing for Veal. Take crumbs of bread, yolk of an egg, a bit of salt butter of the same size, a little veal gravy or any sauce, mixed spice, a little boiled parsley minced very fine, a squeeze of lemon, and stuff it next the bone of a fillet, either for roasting or stewing; in the loin it must be put between the skin and f - 186 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 250.—To dress a Calf’s Head. Take a calf;s head, scald the hair oft* and scrape it very clean; let it soak in cold water for some hours, then parboil it for half an hour, and keep the liquor it was boiled in ; cut the head in small pieces from the bone, take out the eye and all the meat you can get with it; keep the tongue whole, rub it with the yolk of an egg, dust it with flour, and brown it all round in butter; then add the meat, and make it as brown as you can without burning; add mixed spice with a squeeze of lemon, then add for gravy as much as you will of the liquor the head was boiled in, thickened with flour. It will take at least three hours to stew, and you cannot stew it very slow; when dished put the tongue in the middle and the hash round it; a little soy, or catsup, or fish sauce may be added, if agreeable. 251.—Joints of Pork. A leg, loin, and back ribs are the best roasting pieces. The skin should be cut in stripes an inch apart, but not deeper than the skin, and when half roasted take off every alternate stripe to admit the heat; gravy as for any other roast. A boiled leg of pork is the better for being salted for eight or ten days, and should be skinned before coming to the table; allow a quarter of an hour for every pound and half an hour over; the liquor in which it is boiled does very well for peas- soup; the leg should have peas-pudding sent to the table with it. 252.—Pork Steaks. Cut them from the loin or neck, and of middling thickness; pepper and broil them, turning them often, and when nearly done sprinkle them with salt, and serve the moment they are taken off the fire.PORK,; LAMB. 87 253.—To roast a Sucking Pig. If you can get it when just killed this is of great advantage; let it be scalded—which the dealers usually do—then put some sage, crumbs of bread, salt and pepper into the belly and sew it up; lay it to a brisk fire, and when it is thoroughly dry rub it over with butter in every part; when ready cut off the head ; then—without withdrawing the spit—cut it down the back and belly, and lay it in the dish; garnish each side with the half of a head, split up; for gravy take a little of the dripping, with water that has had a bit of bread boiled in it. If very small it may be sent to the table whole with a lemon in the mouth. 254.—Lamb. A hind quarter of lamb will take about an hour and a quarter, a fore quarter not quite so long. Many people prefer the fore quarter cold. Gravy as for beef or mutton ; and when sent to the table cold, garnish with parsley. 255.—Lamb Cutlets with Spinach. Cut the steaks from the loin, and fry them. The spinach is to be stewed and put into the dish first, and then the Cutlets round it. 256.—Lamb’s Head. Soak a lamb’s head for a night in water, boil till tender, take the liver and lights and mince them pretty small, then give them a fry in a very little butter, adding a little of the gravy they were boiled in thickened with flour. Put the head in the middle of the dish and the mince round it, seasoned with salt, spice, and a little vinegar. The lights should be first parboiled with the head, but not the liver. A sheep’s head and pluck can be done the same way.88 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 257.—Scotch Haggis. Get a bag from the butcher, soak it all night in water, and scrape it well outside and in, washing with boiling water; rub it over with a little salt to bring off all the slime, then soak again in water. Boil a sheep’s pluck till ready, and when cold grate the liver very fine, and mince the heart and lights very small; take about i lb. (or rather more) of suet, a quarter of a peck of oatmeal, and mix all together with a little of the liquor the pluck was boiled in (which should first be well skimmed), a few onions shred small (if liked), and plenty of pepper and salt. Fill your bag, then secure the mouth by twisting it well with a small wire skewer; put it into boiling water and keep it boiling for three hours. The bag should be pricked with a large needle to prevent it from bursting. 258.—To salt a Beef Ham. For a rump of beef about 20 lbs. weight take £ lb. of salt- petre, 2 lbs. of salt, \ lb. of coarse raw sugar, oz. of cloves, 1 oz. each of Jamaica and black pepper ground, mixing the spice all together. Rub the mixture well over the meat, stuffing it in at the bone as much as possible, and let it lie for two or three days; then add about 1 lb. more salt, rub it well, and turn it every other day. It will be fit for use in about three weeks, when you should drain off the brine and hang the ham up. If you want it smoked, hang it over a barrel in which you burn peat or turf—the smoke will soon take it if you turn it well on every part—then hang up to dry. 259. —To salt a Mutton Ham. For a leg of mutton it will take an ounce and a half of salt- petre, and the same spices as for a beef ham except the pepper; thrust your finger down the hole in the shank, and fill it with89 SALTING HAMS AND TONGUES. the spice, salt, and sugar as mentioned; then tie it tight, and rub it well with salt, saltpetre, and sugar, turning it every other day. 260.—To salt a Bacon Ham. Take about 2 lbs. of common salt, 2 ozs. of saltpetre, a £ lb. of coarse sugar and spices as in the former recipes, and mix all well together; open the ham at the shank, and stuff it with the salt and spices; then tie it up hard round the shank- bone, to keep out the air, and rub it well over with the mixture every other day; strew a little salt above and below it, cover it up with a plate, and then with a cloth, but do not let the cloth touch the brine; after it has lain two or three days rub in more salt, continuing this for three weeks, and taking care to keep the joint always covered up; then take it out, drain off from the brine and hang up. If it can be hung for some time in a house where a peat or turf fire is used it will greatly improve it. 261.—To cure Tongues. Rub them with salt and 1 oz. of pounded saltpetre to each tongue, and about 2 ozs. of coarse sugar ; mix with salt 1 oz. of Jamaica pepper, 1 oz. of black pepper, and £ oz. of cloves, rub it all well into them, let them lie three weeks and they will be ready for use. 262.—To boil Vegetables Green, Be sure the water boils before you put them in, and make them boil very fast; do not cover them, but watch them ; you may be sure they are done when they begin to sink, then take them out immediately or the colour will change.XI. MEAT PIES AND PATTIES. 263.—Beef Steak Pie. Cut the steaks thin, beat them well, and season with p«pper and salt; add a little flour and water for gravy, with a spoon- ful of catsup, and cover with a good crust. 264.—Veal Pie. Cut steaks of veal, beat them and season with pepper and salt, add the yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs, divided, a little gravy made of any scraps of veal thickened with flour, and the juice of a lemon ; cover with a good crust. 265. —Mutton Pie. Cut steaks of mutton, removing some of the fat; beat them, season with pepper and salt, or cut the steaks small as for a hash, add a little water thickened with flour, and cover with paste. 266. —Gibiet Pie. After nicely cleaning the giblets, stew them in a small quantity of water, with an onion or two and some black pepper; stew till nearly done, then let them cool, and lay them in the dish; thicken the gravy with a little flour, pour it over them, and cover.MEAT PIES AND PATTIES. 9i 267.—Pigeon Pie. Soak your pigeons well in cold water, till the water is free from blood; pepper and salt them well before closing them ; lay a beef-steak at the bottom of the dish, and, between every two, half the yolk of an egg, hard boiled; add a little water thickened with flour, then cover with a good paste, and in the centre stick three feet, nicely cleaned, to show what kind of a pie it is. 268.—Paste for Small Raised Pies. Take 12 ozs. of butter, 2 lbs. of flour, and a gill of water, and mix same way as for baked custards. 269.—Paste for Goose Pie. Take 4 lbs. of butter, 1 lb. of beef suet, and 10 lbs. of flour; melt the butter and suet in 1 quart of water, mix it into the flour, which should make stiff paste; if it be not sufficient to do that, add a little boiled water; it must be worked smooth and raised warm; let it stand all night, then fill and finish it. If made into one pie this quantity will be sufficient for a goose and a turkey boned, and a tongue cut in slices. It should be baked in a solid oven. 270.—Oyster Patties. Provide as many oysters as you want; take off the beards, cut them into small pieces, and put them in a saucepan with a little nutmeg, white pepper, and salt to your taste ; simmer the whole a few minutes with a little of the oyster liquor and a bit of butter ; then sheet the pans with tart paste, put in each of them a piece of bread and cover with the best puff* paste; cut them neatly round the edges, run a sharp-pointed knife round between the rim and the top, and wash them over with yolk of egg and a little water ; bake them in a moderate oven,92 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. and when baked take off the tops and take out the bread; fill up with the oysters and serve. These patties should be baked in tins the shape of an oyster. 271.—Lobster Patties. Boil a lobster and take out the gut, which lies on the top of the tail; cut it small and season it to your taste with white pepper, salt, nutmeg, and cayenne pepper; add to it a little good veal gravy; bake the crust as before directed for oyster patties and then fill and serve.XII. POULTRY AND GAME. 272.—Directions for Dressing Poultry. All poultry should be nicely picked, every plug removed, and the hair nicely singed with white paper. Fowls for boiling should have the legs put under the wing and “ shut ”—that is, bent inwards and tucked into the belly. For roasting, the legs should be left out and skewered down. In drawing poultry of all sorts the cook must be careful not to break the gall bag, for no washing will take away the bitterness of the gall where it has touched. Iu dressing wild fowl be careful to keep a clear, brisk fire, and let them be done a fine yellow brown, but leave the gravy in. The fine flavour is lost if the birds are done too much. 273.—To roast Fowls and other Poultry. Game fowls require more roasting, and are longer in heating through than wild fowls. Fowls of all kinds, when roasting, should be continually basted till nearly ready ; then dust them with flour, that they may be served with a froth and appear of a fine colour. The fire must be very quick and clear before the fowls are put down. Time /or Roasting.—Time for roasting a large fowl, three quarters of an hour; a middling-sized one, half an hour; and94 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. a very small one, or a chicken, twenty minutes. A capon will take from half an hour to thirty-five minutes; a goose, an hour; wild cluck, a quarter of an hour; pheasants, twenty minutes; small stuffed turkey, an hour and a quarter; turkey poult, twenty minutes; grouse, a quarter of an hour; quails, ten minutes; and partridges, from twenty to twenty-five minutes. A hare will take nearly an hour. Geese require a brisk fire and quick turning; hares and rabbits must be well attended to, and the extremities brought to the quick part of the fire to be equally done with the backs. 274.—To boil a Turkey. First cut a slit in the back of the neck ; fill it with crumbs of bread, mixed with a bit of butter, the yolk of an egg, spice, and a very little milk to moisten it; then sew up the skin, turn the head over the left wing, skewer it, and flour the cloth to boil it in. Have ready a little melted butter for sauce; take a little of the gravy the bird was boiled in, mix with it a few oysters, and pour the sauce over the turkey before serving. 275.—To roast a Turkey or Fowl. Prepare the same as in the foregoing recipe, and baste the bird well with butter; boil the heart, liver, &c., in a little water for gravy, and pour a little of the dripping over the feet before serving. A Fowl is roasted in the same manner as a turkey. 276.—To boil Fowls. Pick them nicely, singe, wash, and truss them; flour them, and put them into boiling water. A young chicken will take twenty minutes, and larger fowls—according to size—from that time to thirty-five minutes. Serve with parsley and butter and oyster or liver sauce.95 POULTRY AND GAME. If for dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon is usually served with fowls. Chickens, either roasted or boiled, should have no stuffing. The heads of chickens should be retained, but with fowls the heads are taken off. 277. —To roast Ducks. Cut off the legs and half of the wings ; stuff them with sage, and a bit of butter, pepper, and salt; skewer them nicely with small wire skewers (with which all poultry should be done). Boil the tip of the wings, gizzard, and liver for gravy*; baste them with butter, dust them with flour, like other poultry, and roast of a nice light brown. Some cooks retain the legs, and after toasting and scraping off the outer skin, turn them up the back. 278. —To stew a Duck. Put it in a stew-pan with a little gravy and a few leaves of sage cut small, and some pepper and salt. Simmer a quarter of an hour, add a little water thickened with flour, skim the liquor well, then cover up close, and let the bird simmer an hour. 279.—To roast a Goose. After it has been carefully picked, the plugs of the feathers pulled out, and the hairs carefully singed, let it be well washed and dried, and a seasoning of pepper and salt put in. Cut the wings like a duck, take off the legs, fasten the goose tight at the neck and rump, and tfien roast. Put it at first at a distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer; baste it well, and be careful to serve it before the breast fall, or it will look ill if it come flat to the table. Let a good gravy be sent in the dish. Apple-sauce should also be sent to the table with it, or if a green goose gooseberry-sauce is better.96 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 280.—Giblets. Giblets make a very nice dish. Set them on with water thickened with flour, and a little pepper and salt, and let them stew slowly for some hours. 281.—To stew Pigeons. Take care that they are quite fresh, carefully cropped, drawn, and washed, and then soak them half an hour in water; take off the head and neck, but leave the skin to cover the place. Put a bit of butter in the breast of each, truss them like a fowl for boiling, season them with pepper and salt, and shut them close, turning the breast downwards in the stew-pan ; thicken the gravy made of the necks and pinions with flour, and let them stew slowly for about an hour or more. Turn the breast up when sent to the table. 282.—To roast Pigeons. These should be stuffed with parsley, either cut or whole, and seasoned within. Serve with parsley and butter. Peas or asparagus should be sent to table with them. 283.—Directions for dressing Game. Game should not be thrown away because it is apparently spoilt, for after being well washed and seasoned, and either stewed with a rich gravy or roasted, it will be found very delicate. 284.—Pheasants and Partridges. They are roasted like any other fowl, but without stuffing; a slice of toasted bread should be placed under each when half roasted, to catch the dripping, and sent to table on dish under them ; though some persons prefer them without the bread, bur with a little gravy in which bread has been boiled.POULTRY AND GAME. 97 285.—Grouse. Roast them like fowls, but in dressing the head should be twisted under the wing. They must not be overdone. Serve with a rich gravy in the dish and bread sauce. 286.—To roast Wild Fowl. The flavour is best preserved without stuffing, but pepper, salt, and a piece of butter may be put into each before roasting. Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame. Put an onion, salt, and hot water into the dripping-pan, and baste them for the first ten minutes with this, then take away the pan and baste with a little butter. They should be served of a fine colour, and well frothed up, and a rich brown gravy should be sent in the dish. When the breast is first cut, a squeeze of a lemon is a great improvement to the flavour, to take off the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes have. 287.—Wild Ducks. Before roasting they should be well washed with salt and water, to take off the fishy taste, and with the same object a lemon may be squeezed over the breast when cut on the table. 288.—Woodcocks, Snipes, and Quails. Roast them without drawing, and serve them on toast, butter may be eaten with them, as gravy takes off the flavour. The thigh and the back are esteemed the best. 289.—Guinea and Pea Fowls. These will be found to eat much like pheasants, and may be dressed in the same way. H98 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. 290.—To roast Hare. Let it be extremely well washed and soaked for an hour or two in water, and put a large relishing stuffing into the belly. For stuffing use the liver, a little sweet herbs, pepper, salt, nut- meg, a little onion, crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it; then sew up and run the spit straight through the mouth, and skewer the legs, so that it may lie upon them when on the dish. Serve with a fine froth and rich gravy, and a sauce-boat of melted currant jelly. 291.—Broiled and Hashed Hare. The flavour of broiled hare is very fine. The legs must be seasoned first, and rubbed with cold butter, and served very hot. The other parts, warmed with gravy and a little stuffing, may be served separately. 292. —Stewed Rabbits. The rabbits must be well washed, and after lying some time in water, should have a cupful of vinegar poured over them, and allowed to lie all night to take off the oily taste; then brown a little dripping, put in the rabbits, either whole or cut in pieces, nicely dusted with flour, and stew till tender. A young rabbit will do in an hour and a half, but an old one will take a great deal longer. 293. —Roasted Rabbits. The rabbits should be prepared with stuffing and gravy, like a hare, or they may be done without stuffing; serve with sauce of the liver and parsley chopped in melted butter, with pepper and salt.XIII. ORNAMENTAL BUTTER-WORK, Your butter must be tough, waxy, and as white as possible : old firkin butter is. best, made from poor land; for this kind of work, wash it well in cold spring water, then work it on a marble slab, and put it again into fresh spring water; as the water gets warm remove it for cold. 294. —To Ornament a Tongue as a Dolphin. Boil an ox tongue and lay it straight, except the tip end, which you must bend a little; when cold pare it neatly, and fix it upright upon a dish with a bit of butter; then model butter in the shape of the head and mouth of a dolphin, and fix it to the thick part of the tongue; make also the fins, eyes, teeth, &c., after which model a tail and fix it to the tip end; vein it neatly with a very small pointed skewer, and fix two currants in the proper place for the eyes. You must use small skewers to fix the butter. 295. —To Ornament a Tongue with Flowers. Boil a tongue and lay it in a small hair sieve; when cold pare it neatly and set it on your dish ; force butter through the squirt; run some of the wires on the tongue to represent the stalk, and place leaves on each side; model rosebuds and100 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. roses—or any other sort of flowers your fancy directs—and fix them in different parts of the tongue. This will make a neat supper dish if well executed. 296.—To Ornament Potted Meat as a Hen and Chickens. Turn your potted meat out of oval pots; put two together, and cut the edges of each to the shape of the body of the hen ; then cover over with plain butter, after which model the head and tail; place a chicken on each side and partly cover with the hen’s wings; on the hen’s back place a chicken, and set one or two also on the dish. This will make a handsome device, if well executed. 297.—To Ornament a Pie as a Lion. Make a small raised pie of oval shape; when cold cover it with plain butter, then model a lion’s head, breast, &c., and place them at one end of the pie ; make it very handsome with combed butter (which you may do with a large needle), to represent the hair; then form the body, tail, and legs, which a little practice will enable you to do very soon. This dish, also, if well executed, will have a really grand appearance. For variety, you may place a lamb between the fore-feet of the lion. 298.—To Ornament Hams. Cut and pare a boiled ham neatly, particularly at the shank ; model the device for it and put it into cold spring water; when prcperly stiff, take it out, lay it on a board, smooth, and finish your work, and set it up on each side or in the front of the ham. You may then place round the ham single and double loops in butter forced through the squirt, or you may101 ORNAMENTAL BUTTER WORK. place any ornament you please on the top—such as flowers; or if you are employed in a gentleman’s family his crest 01 coat-of-arms. The devices commonly used on hams are the Queen’s arms, the Prince of Wales’s arms, names, counties, or places, John Bull, Buonaparte, or the like, a boar’s head with an orange in his tusk, fox and geese, a sheep-fold, &c., &c., as fancy may direct.XIV. SUNDRIES FOR CONFECTIONERS. 299.—To Clarify Sugar. After seeing that the pan to be used is perfectly clean and bright, whisk 2 whites of eggs in 1 pint of water, break 30 lbs. of good lump sugar into small pieces, and put it into the pan; pour over it 6 quarts of water, set it on a clear fire or stove to melt, but be careful that it does not blubber and boil before it is melted; when you perceive it rise it is then boiling and must be stopped immediately by putting in 1 pint of water; when it rises again add the same quantity of water, and so on for two or three times; this will prevent the scum from boiling into the sugar and make it rise to the top; draw the pan to one side of the fire and take all the scum off, then let it continue to simmer, adding a little water from time to time to make the remaining part of the scum rise. By this time the scum will be very white and tough, which also take off. If the sugar appears clear, dip in your finger, and if a drop hang from it the sugar is now of the “ first degree ” called “ smooth,” and may be put by for use. You may clarify a much smaller quantity of sugar by care- fully attending to these instructions. 300.—To Test the Purity of Essence of Lemon. This oil is more frequently found adulterated than almost any other composition, and it is the more unpleasant as it is103 SUNDRIES FOR CONFECTIONERS. often found to be adulterated with sweet oil and sometimes with turpentine. A very simple test is to dip a piece of white blotting paper into the essence and hold it before a gentle fire ; you will soon detect the turpentine by the smell. To test adulteration with sweet oil, dip in a piece of paper and dry it in front of the fire; if this dries greasy, the essence is not pure. The pure essence of fresh lemon would leave no stain on the paper. 301.—Eclairs. Take 1 pint of water, 6 ozs. of butter, 14 ozs. of flour, 11 eggs ; put the water and butter into a suitable pan, put it on the stove, and let it boil; then take it off the stove, stir in the flour with a spatter, add your eggs, and beat it up well: put through a Savoy bag; shape to your liking, and bake in a sound oven; after baking fill with cream, and cover them over the top with chocolate glaze. 302. —Petits Choux. Put half a pint of water in a good-sized stew-pan ; add l lb. of good butter, a little salt, and 2 ozs. of castor sugar; when this comes to a boil add 6 ozs. of finely-sifted flour, well stirred; then put in 4 eggs, one at a time, and add a little essence of vanilla (your paste should now be soft and clear); take a bag and tube that are used for Savoy biscuits, lay them out about the size of a large walnut on clean buttered tins, wash over with egg, and bake in a moderate oven; let them be well baked, and when they are cold take the point of a sharp knife and cut round the top, fill them with cream, placing a little water-icing on each, with a few chopped pistachios. 303. —Lemon Drops. Provide a small basin of good icing; add to it 4 ozs. of Va- lentia almonds, beat fine with white of egg and work it well to-104 PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. gether; then add a little essence of lemon, or the rind of a lemon finely grated; you may make the drops of two or three colours—lay them out on wafer paper, and bake in a very slow oven. 304.—Lemonade. Cut 3 lemons into thin slices, put them in a basin or bowl and add £ lb. of castor sugar; bruise all together, add a gallon of water, stir well, and it is then ready. 305.—Currant and Raspberry Summer Drink. Take i lb. of red currants bruised, with some raspberries, £ lb. of sugar, and add a gallon of cold water; stir well, allow the liquor to settle, and then bottle. 306.—Mulberry Summer Drink. This may be made the same way as the above, only adding a little lemon peel. 307.—Ginger Pop. Take 15 gallons of water, put in 8 ozs. of ginger, and boil for half an hour; then add 10 pints of clarified sugar, let it boil ten minutes longer, take off the scum, and put the liquor into a cooler, and let it stand until “new milk” warm; then cask it, putting into the cask the rinds and juice of 15 lemons, i oz. of isinglass, previously dissolved in a pint of warm water, one bottle of brandy, and two tablespoonfuls of good yeast; bung up the cask and set it in a cool cellar for ten days, when it will be ready to bottle. It must be strained carefully, and must be bottled in stone bottles corked with the best corks, with a wire tied over them.INDEX PAGK PAGE A DULTERATION, Question of 4 Biscuits, Cinnamon ... 22 Albert Cakes 32 — Cream ... 25 Almond Cheese Cakes 34 Digestive ... 21 Almond Custards 52 Lemon ... 23 Filberts 27 Lily ... 28 Icing for Bride Cakes 81 Naples ... 25 Simnel Cakes 4i Orange ... 23 Almonds, Recipes for 27 — Pavilion ... 22 American Condums 11 Princess ... 26 Fancy Breads 13 Rose ... 23 Apple Dumpling 48 Syringe ... 23 Fritters 50 Thick Digestive ... 22 Pie 46 Wine ... 22 Creamed 46 Blanket or Jam Dumpling ... ... 49 Apricot Ice 62 Bordeaux Cakes ... 33 from Marmalade 63 Bread, Recipes for ... 9 Wacerlce 70 Bread and Butter Pudding ... ... 50 Tart 48 Brown Bread Ice Cream ... 66 Buns, Recipes for ... 18 T~) ACON HAM, to Salt ... 88 — Bath ... 18 |~) Baked Custard 53 Chelsea ... ... 18 Paste for 53 German ... 18 Baking Cakes, Instructions for 29 London ... 18 Barberry Ice 64 Lumley ... 20 from Marmalade 64 Swiss ... 20 Water Ice 69 Switchback ... 20 Baskets, Ornamental 80 Burnt Almond Ice ... 66 Beef Ham, to Salt 88 — Filbert Ice ... 66 Joints of 82 Bury Simnels ... 41 Steak Pie 90 Butter-Making, Proper Conditions for 3 Steaks 83 Work, Ornamental, Recipes Stewed in Slices 83 for ’. ... 99 Biscuit Ice 65 Biscuits, Recipes for 21 AKE-MAKING Machim ery... 29 ■ Abernethy 22 1 Cakes, Baking ... 29 Aquarium 21 Piping ... 81 Butter 25 Cakes, Recipes for ... 29 • Charcoal 21 Albert ... 32io6 INDEX. Cakes, American Genoa 31 Bordeaux 33 Cheese 34, 35>36 Cherry 43 Cocoa-nut ... 30 Creaming 30 ■ Eccles 19, 38 Genoa 33 Girdle 39 Lunch 32 Madeira 30 Nelson 38 Oatmeal 40 Ornaments for ... 76 ■ Plum 31, 32 Princess Beatrice 41 Queen 33, 34 Rice 3L 32 Seed 31 Sponge, in Pound Tins ... 36 in Shapes 37 Stale, Improvement of ... 33 Sultana 34 Calf’s-foot Jelly ... 72 Calf’s Head, to Dress 86 Cheese Cakes Cherry Cake China Orange Water Ice 70 Chocolate Ice Cream 67 Cinnamon Rusks ... ... ... 25 Citron Cheese Cakes 35 Cocoa-nuLCakes 30 Coffee Ice Cream 67 Collops, or Minced Meat 83 Scotch 84 Condums, American 11 Confectioners’ Sundries, Recipes for 102 Corner Dish, or Fish Pond 73 Coventry Cakes 38 Cow’s Head, to Dress 84 Cream, to Whip 51 Creaming Cakes 30 Crumpets 15 Currant Fritters 50 Pie 47 and Raspberry Summer 34. 35, 36 Drinks Currant Water Ice „ . Custard Cups' ... Custards, Recipes for . D AMSON Ice . 104 . 69 . 80 • 52 ... 64 - from Marmalade 64 Damson Water Ice PAGB Diet Bread 9 Digestive Biscuits 21 Dough, How to Mix it 6 Dressing Game, Directions for ... 96 Ducks, to Roast ... 95 Stewed 05 — AVild 97 Dumpling, Apple 48 Jam, or Blanket 49 Lemon 51 Suet 51 Eccles Cakes 19,38 Eclairs ° 103 Eggs, Composition of ... 1 Eggs, Preserving 2 Essence of Lemon, to Test Purity of IC2 FAT Cakes 40 Fish Pond or Corner Dish ... 73 Flour, Patent 42 Fowls, to Boil 94 to Roast 93 Freezing Tub 59 French Bread ir — Pastry 54 Rolls 11 Shortbread 44 Yeast 5 GAME, Dressing 96 Recipes for 03 Genoa Cake 33 German Buns 18 Yeast 5 Giblet Pie 90 Giblets 96 Ginger Fingers 43 Re 65 Nuts 43 Pop 104 Gingerbread „ 43 Girdle Cakes 39 Scones 39 Gold Jelly 73 Goose, to Roast a ... 95 Pie, Paste for 91 Gooseberry Pie 47 — Green, Water Ice ... 70 Red, Water Ice ... 70 Graham Bread 13 Greengage Ice 63 Grouse ... ... ... ... ... 97 Guinea Fowls ... ... ... ... 97 Gum Paste 75INDEX. 107 HAGGIS, Scotch 88 Hams, to Salt 88 >—— to Ornament ioo Hare, Broiled 98 Hashed 98 Roast 98 Hartshorn'Jelly 74 Hedgehog, to Make a 56 Household Bread 9 ICE CREAMS, Recipes for ... 62 Putting into Moulds 61 Ice House, Building an ... 57 Ice House, Filling 58 Ices, to Freeze 60 Icing Tarts 46 for Cakes, Biscuits, &c. ... 80 Imperials 24 Indian Bread 13 Italian Swiss Roll 36 JAM Dumpling 49 Jellies, Recipes for /2 Joints and Meat Dishes, Re- cipes for 82 T AMB I ^ Cutlets Lamb’s Head Lard for Sponge Cake Tins ... Lemon Cheese Cakes for ditto Custards Drops Dumplings Ice Cream — Jelly Water Ice Lemonade Lily Biscuits Lobster Patties ... Lunch Cakes ... 87 ... 87 ... 87 37 ••• 35 ... 40 ... 52 ... 103 ... 5i ... 64 ... 74 ... 69 ... 104 ... 28 ... 92 ... 32 Macaroni Pudding... 49,30 Macaroons 26 Madeira Cake 30 Maids of Honour 42 Maraschino Jelly 73 Marrow Pastry 49 Meat Dishes, Recipes for 82 Pies, Recipes for 90 Melon Ice Cream 68 Meringues 23 Mixture for Piping 24 Milk Bread 10 Mince Pie 47 Minced Meat or Collops ... I’AGE ... 83 Mincemeat - 47 Morelia Cherry Water Ice ... ... 70 Muffins i4> i5 Mulberry Summer Drink ... 104 Water Ice ... 71 Mutton Chops ... 84 Hash ... 84 Ham, to Salt ... 88 —-Joints of ... 84 Pie ... 90 TV T APLES B scuits 1 ^ Nectarine Water Ice ... 25 ... 71 Nelson or Eccles Cake ... 38 ✓"V AT CAKES, Scotch ... 1 1 Oatmeal Cakes • 39 ... 40 Pudding ... 50 Old English Bread ... 12 Orange Cheese Cakes ■ 35 Custard . ... 52 f—Jelly ... 74 Water Ice ... 69 Ornamental Butter-Work, Recipes for ... 99 Ornamental Sugar-Work, Recipes for 75 Oyster Patties ... 91 ■pvANCAKES Berlin ... 49 ... 19 Parmesan Cheese lee ... 67 Partridges ... 96 Paste for Goose Pie ... 91 Small Raised Pies ... 91 Pastry, French ... 55 Patent Flour ... 42 Patisserie d’Amandes a la Conde ••• 55 Pea Fowls ... 97 Peach Ice ... 63 from Marmalade ... 63 Water Ice ... 71 Petits Choux ... 103 Pheasants ... 96 Pies, Fruit, Recipes for ... 46 Meat, Recipes for ... 90 Pig, Sucking, to Roast ... 87 Pigeon Pie ... 91 to Roast ... 96 to Stew ... 96 Pineapple Ice * ... 68 from Marmalade ... 68 —< Water Ice ... 71 Piping Cakes ... 81 Meringue, Mixture for ... 24 Pistachio Ice ... 65INDEX, io8 Plum Cake Pork, Joints of Steaks Poultry, Recipes for to Dress to Roast Pound Cheese Cakes, inside Mi: ture for Prince of Wales Ice Princess Beatrice Cakes Princess Biscuits Prunella Ice Puddings, Recipes fi r Puff Paste Pyramid in Q UEEN Cakes Queen’s Bread • • 4i .. 26 .. 67 - 46 53,54 • • 54 • • 34 Rabbits, Roasted Stewed Raspberry Ice ... Raspberry Ice from Jam Water I^e ... Ratafias Red Currant Ice Rhubarb Pie Rice Cake Cheese Cakes Pudding Sponge Rock Almonds, Brown Pink ... White Rolls for Breakfast French Viennese Round, to Stew a Royal Hearts Ice Cream Rusks Cinnamon Russian Tea Cakes Rye Bread SALLY Lunns Savoy Cakes in shapes to Ornament Scotch Cake Haggis ... Oat Cake Scones ... sa-Foam Flour Cake 26, 27 ... 63 ... 38 ... 83 ... 28 ... 65 Seville Orange Ice Seville Orange Ice from Marmalade Shortbread, English French — Scotch Silver Jelly Snow Cake Sponge Cakes in Pound Tins in Shapes • to Ornament • Tins, Lard for ... Stale Cakes, Improvement of Strawberry Ice Cream from Jam ... Sugar, to Clarify 1 Varieties of Work, Ornamental, Recipes for Sultana Cakes Summer Drinks ] Sundries for Confectioners, Recipes T ART PASTE, Crisp 54 Sweet 55 Tartlet, to Make a Handsome 54 Tea Cakes, Recipes for 17 Ice Cream 67 Tongues, to Cure ... ... 89 to Ornament ... go Travellers’ Bread Trifle Turkey, to Boil a Roast VEAL Cutlets Pie Veal, to Stew Stuffing for Vegetables, to Boil Green Vermicelli Pudding Vienna Bread Viennese Rolls WATER ICES, Recipes for... 69 Whole Meal Bread 9 Wild Fowl, to Roast ... e- Winer.our Water Ice 69 5i Y EAST, French and German ... PRINTED BY J. S. VIRTUE AND CO., LIMITED, CITY ROAD, LONDON.(iv) A D VER 71 SEMEN! S. EVERY BAKER AND CONFECTIONER SHOULD SUBSCRIBE FOR “ The British Baker, Confectioner, and Purveyor.” By far the largest and best patronised organ of its class. The small amount of subscription can be saved many times over by acting upon the numerous hints and wrinkles contained in its pages. Every Subscriber is presented with a HANDSOME CLOTH-BOUND DIARY containing (in addition to ordinary diary matter) a vast amount of trade information likely to be of use at all seasons of the year. Advertisers will find the “B. B. C. & P.” the ^/medium for reaching the trade. ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION 5s., Post Free {Including Diary'). SINGLE COPIES 9d., Post Free. ADVERTISING RATES ON APPLICATION. MACLAREN AND SONS, (F. COPEMAN, Manager,) 78, ST. PAUL’S CHURCHYARD, LONDON, E.C. And 128, REN FI ELD STREET, GLASGOW, And at MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA. DO NOT BE WITHOUT THE RECOGNISED TRADE ORGAN.(V) AD VERTISEMENTS. THE BAKERS’ RECORD IS THE LEADING WEEKLY NEWSPAPER CONNECTED WITH THE BREAD & BISCUIT BAKERS' TRADE. THE BAKERS’ RECORD is replete with information bearing on the Trade from all parts of the Kingdom; and con- tains full reports of the meetings of the National Association, the Provincial and London Societies, and other organizations in connection with the Baking Trade. THE BAKERS’ RECORD offers a valuable medium of communication for the discussion of questions affecting the Trade; and is the only newspaper devoted to the interests of both Employers and Operatives. THE BAKERS’ RECORD contains Portraits of Promi- nent Men in the Trade; and seeks to strengthen and enlarge the existing organizations for promoting the welfare of the Baking Trade by earnest advocacy and practical sympathy. THE BAKERS’ RECORD, having been established over 25 years, is the oldest existing trade paper; and offers an excellent medium for Advertisers to make known their speciali- ties. Terms on Application. Price 2d. PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY. Price 2d. HALF-YEARLY SUBSCRIPTION, 4s. 4d., Post Free. —OFFICE— 5, GOUGH SQUARE, FLEET STREET, I^OTVI>OIV. All Bakers and Confectioners should subscribe to THE BAKERS’ RECORD.AD VERTISEMENTS. (vi) CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON, 7, Stationers’ Hall Court, London, E.C THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF MILLING. FLOUR MANUFACTURE: A TREATISE ON MILLING SCIENCE AND PRACTICE. By FRIEDRICH KICK, IMPERIAL REGIERUNGSRAXH, PROFESSOR OF MECHANICAL TECHNOLOGY IN THE IMPERIAL GERMAN POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE, PRAGUE. Cran^latetf from tf>e (Snlarcjeti antr (Stittton fctntl) J^upplEment. By H. H. P. POWLES, ASSOC. MEMB. INSTITUTION OF CIVIL ENGINEERS. Nearly 400 pp. Illustrated with 28 Folding Plates, and 167 Woodcuts. Royal 8vo, 25s. cloth. SUMMARY OF CONTENTS. Introduction—Grain—Methods of Grinding—Old Mills—New Mills. Part I. On the different Kinds of Grain: their Structure, Diseases, Enemies, and Impurities—II. On the Preservation of Grain—III. On the Prepara- tion of Grain for Grinding—IV. Grinding Mills and Hursts—V. Roller Mills—VI. On Bolting, Sifting, and Dressing the Ground Products— VII. Middlings Purifying—VIII. The different Methods of Milling— IX. Flour Mixing, Storing, Drying, Packing—X. Mills as Industria Establishments—Appendix—Supplement. EXTRACTS FROM NOTICES OF THE PRESS. “ This valuable work is, and will remain the standard authority on the science of milling. . . The miller who has read and digested this work will have laid the founda- tion, so to speak, of a successful career; he will have acquired a number of general principles which he can proceed to apply. In this handsome volume we at last have the accepted text-book of modern milling in good, sound English, which has little, if any, trace of the German idiom.”—The Miller. “Piofessor Kick treats the subject so thoroughly both on its theoretical and practical sides that his work is well suited to be a text-book of technical education anywhere.”—Scotsman. “ The appearance of this celebrated work in English is’very opportune, and British millers will, we are sure, not be slow in availing themselves of its pages That the fund of information in the work should now be available for every English miller is a boon indeed.”—Millers' Gazette. “ It should be in the hands of all directly interested in the question of milling or flour.”—Manchester Guardian.AD VERTISEMEN1S. (vii) CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON, 7, Stationers’ Hall Court, London, E.C. THE POPULAR LAW BOOK, ALWAYS KEPT UP TO DATE. Crown 8vo, 700 pp. Price 6s. 8d. (Saved ut Every Consultation! ) TWENTY-NINTH EDITION, 1892. EVERY MAN'S OWN LAWYER; A HANDY-BOOK OF THE PRINCIPLES OF LAW AND EQUITY. By A BARRISTER. Twenty-ninth Edition (1892). Revised and Enlarged, including pro- visions of the new Tithe Act (1891), Public Health (London) Act (1891), Custody of Children Act (1891), Slander of Women Act (1891), Forged Transfer Act (1891), and other Acts of 1891; also Bankruptcy Act (1890), amending the Act of 1883 in important particulars; Partnership Act (1890), Directors' Liability Act (1890), Housing of the Working Classes Act (1890), Infectious Disease Prevention Act (1890), Infectious Disease Notification Act (1889), Technical Instruction Act (1889), Weights and Measures Act (1889), Local Government Act (1888), County Courts Act (1888), &c., &c. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. “ Should be in the hands of every business man and all who wish to abolish lawyers’ bills.”—Weekly Times. “ A useful and concise epitome of the law, compiled with considerable care.”—Lazo Magazine. “ A work which has long been wanted, which is thoroughly well done, and which we most cordially recommend.”—Sunday Times. “ The latest edition of this popular book ought to be in every business establishment and on every library table.”—Sheffield Post. Second Edition, Fcap. 8vo, 420 pp. Price 4s., cloth. THE HOUSE MANAGER, being a guide to HOUSEKEEPING, PRACTICAL COOKERY, PICKLING & PRESERVING, HOUSEHOLD WORK, DAIRY MANAGEMENT, THE TABLE & DESSERT, CELLARAGE OF WINES, BREWING AND WINE MAKING, THE BOUDOIR AND DRESSING ROOM, TRAVELLING, STABLE ECONOMY, GARDENING OPERATIONS, ETC. FORMING THEREFORE A HANDBOOK TO THE DUTIES OF THE HOUSEKEEPER, COOK, LADY’S-MAID, NURSERY-MAID, HOUSE-MAID, LAUNDRY-MAID, DAIRY-MAID, BUTLER, VALET, FOOTMAN, COACHMAN, GROOM, AND GARDENER. BY AN OLD HOUSEKEEPER. OPINIONS OF THE-PRESS. “The press literally teems with cookery books—a few good, many bad, and the majority very indifferent. Among the best is the ‘ House Manager.’ It exhausts the subject it treats, and does it, too, in a plain, common-sense sort of way.”—Figaro. This household vade mecum contains a great quantity of the most useful informa- tion, giving the newest and most approved recipes and methods connected with the different departments.”—Edinburgh Courant.7, Stationers’ Hall Court, London, E.C. February, 1892. A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS including new and standard works in ENGINEERING: CIVIL, MECHANICAL, AND MARINE, MINING AND METALLURGY, ELECTRICITY AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, ARCHITECTURE AND BUILDING, INDUSTRIAL AND DECORATIVE ARTS, SCIENCE, TRADE AGRICULTURE, GARDENING, LAND AND ESTATE MANAGEMENT, LAW, &c. PUBLISHED BY CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, etc. Neiv Pochet-BooTc for Mechanical Engineers. THE MECHANICAL ENGINEER'S POCKET-BOOK OF TABLES, FORMULAS, RULES A ND DATA. A Handy Book of Reference for Daily Use in Engineering Practice. By D. Kinnear Clark, M.Inst.C.E., Author of “ Railway Machinery,” “ Tramways,” &c. &c. Small 8vo, nearly 700 pages. With Illustrations. Rounded edges, cloth limp, ys. 6d.; or leather, gilt edges, gs. [Just published. New Manual for Practical Engineers, THE PRACTICAL ENGINEER'S HAND-BOOK. Comprising a Treatise on Modern Engines and Boilers: Marine, Locomotive and Sta- tionary. And containing a large collection of Rules and Practical Data relating to recent Practice in Designing and Constructing all kinds of Engines, Boilers, and other Engineering work. The whole constituting a comprehensive Key to the Board of Trade and other Examinations for Certi- ficates of Competency in Modern Mechanical Engineering. By Walter S. Hutton, Civil and Mechanical Engineer, Author of “ The Works’ Manager’s Handbook for Engineers,” &c. With upwards of 370 Illustrations. Fourth Edition, Revised, with Additions. Medium 8vo, nearly 500 pp., price 18s, Strongly bound. [Just published. 1-3” This work is designed as a companion to the Author's “Works’ Manager’s Hand-book.’’ It possesses many new and original features, and con- tains, like its predecessor, a quantity of matter not originally intended for publica- tion, but collected by the author for his own use in the construction of a great variety of modern engineering work. *** Opinions of the Press. “ A thoroughly good practical handbook, which no engineer can go through without learning something that will be of service to him.”—Marine Engineer. “ An excellent book of reference for engineers, and a valuable text-book for students of engineering."—Scotsman. “ This valuable manual embodies the results and experience of the leading authorities on mechanical engineering.”—Building News. “ The author has collected together a surprising quantity o, rules and practical data, and has shown much judgment in the selections he has made. . . . There is no doubt that this book is one of the most useful of its kind published, and will be a very popular compendium.”—Engineer. “ A mass of information, set down in simple language, and in such a form that it can be easily referred to at any time. The matter is uniformly good and well chosen, and is greatly elucidattd by the illustrations. The book will find its way on to most engineers’ shelves, where it will rank as one of the most useful books of reference.”—Practical Engineer. “ Should be found on the office shelf of all practical engineers."—English Mechanic. BCROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. Handbook for Works’ Managers. THE WORKS’ MANAGER’S HANDBOOK OF MODERN RULES, TABLES, AND DATA. For Engineers, Millwrights, and Boiles Makers; Tool Makers, Machinists, and Metal Workers; Iron and Brass Founders, &c. By W. S. Hutton, C.E., Author of “ The Practical Engineer’s Handbook." Fourth Edition, carefully Revised, and partly Re-written. la One handsome Volume, medium 8vo, 15s. strongly bound. [Just published. .1-3” The Author having compiled Rules and Data for his own use in a great variety of modern engineering work, and having found his notes extremely useful, decided to publish them—revised to date—believing that a practical work, suited ta the daily requirements of modern engineers, would be favourably received. In the Third Edition, the following among other additions have been made, viz.: Rules for the Proportions of Riveted Joints in Soft Steel Plates, the Results of Experi- ments by Professor Kennedy for the Institution of Mechanical Engineers—Rules for the Proportions of Turbines—Rules for the Strength of Hollow Shafts of Whit- worth's Compressed Steel, &c. *** Opinions of the Press. ‘‘The author treats every subject from the point of view of one who has collected workshop notes for application in workshop practice, rather than from the theoretical or literary aspect. The volume contains a great deal of that kind of information which is gained only by practical experi- ence, and is seldom written in books.”—Engineer. ‘‘The volume is an exceedingly useful one, brimful with engineers’ notes, memoranda, and rules, and well worthy of being on every mechanical engineer’s bookshelf.”—Mecha7iical World. “ The information is precisely that likely to be required in practice. . . . The work forms a desirable addition to the library not only of the works manager, but of anyone connected with-, genera! engineering."—Mining Journal. “A formidable mass of facts and figures, readily accessible through an elaborate index .... Such a volume will be found absolutely necessary as a book of reference in all sorts of 'works ’ connected with the metal trades.”—Hyland's Iron Trades Circular. “ Brimful of useful information, stated in a concise form, Mr. Hutton’s books have met a press- ing want among engineers. The book must prove extremely useful to every practical man. possessing a copy.”—Practical Engineer. Practical Treatise on Modern Steam-Boilers. STEAM-BOILER CONSTRUCTION. A Practical Handbook for Engineers, Boiler-Makers, and Steam Users. Containing a large Col- lection of Rules and Data relating to the Design, Construction, and Working of Modern Stationary, Locomotive, and Marine Steam-Boilers. By Walter S. Hutton, C.E., Author of “The Works’ Manager’s Handbook,” &c- With upwards of 300 Illustrations. Medium 8vo, 18s. cloth. [Just published. “Eve^y detail, both in boiler design and management, is clearly laid before the reader. The- volume shows that boiler construction has been reduced to the condition of one of the most exact sciences; and such a book is of the utmost value to the fin de siecle Engineer and Works ' Manager ."—Marine Engineer. “ There has long been room for a modern handbook on steam boilers ; there is not that room, row, because Mr. Hutton has filled it. It is a thoroughly practical book for those who are occu,- pied in the construction, design, se’ection, or use of boilers.”—EngEieer. 66The Modernised Templeton THE PRACTICAL MECHANIC'S WORKSHOP COM- PANION. Comprising a great variety of the most useful Rules and Formulae in Mechanical Science, with numerous Tables of Practical Data and Calcu- lated Results for Facilitating Mechanical Operations. By William Temple- ton, Author of “The Engineer’s Practical Assistant,’’ &c. &c. Sixteenth Edition, Revised, Modernised, and considerably Enlarged by Walter S. Hutton, C.E., Author of “The Works’ Manager’s Handbook,” “The Practical Engineer’s Handbook,” &c. Fcap. 8vo, nearly 500 pp., with Eight Plates and upwards of 250 Illustrative Diagrams, 6s., strongly bound for workshop or pocket wear and tear. [Just published* *** Opinions of the Press. “ In Its modernised form Hutton’s ‘ Templeton ’ should have a wide sale, for it contains much valuable information which the mechanic will often find of use, and not a few tables and notes which he might look for in vain in other works. This modernised edition wi be appreciated by all who have learned to value the original editions of ‘ Templeton.’ ’ —English Mechanic. “ It has met with great success in the engineering workshop, as we can testify: and there are a great many men who, in a great measure, owe their rise in life to this little book.”—Building News. “ This familiar text-book—well known to all mechanics and engineers—is of essential service to the every-day requirements of engineers, millwrights, and the various trades connected with engineering and building. The new modernised edition is worth its weight in gold ."—Building News. (Second Notice.) . , . , .... “ This well-knowm and largely used book contains information, brought up to date, of the sort so useful to the foreman and draughtsman. So much fresh information has been introduced as to constitute it prrctically a r ew bock. It will be largely u:ed in the office and workshop. Mechanical World,MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, etc. 3 Stone-working Machinery. STONE-WORKING MACHINERY, and the Rapid and Economi- cal Conversion of Stone. With Hints on the Arrangement and Management of Stone Works. By M. Powis Bale, M.I.M.E. With Illusts. Crown 8vo, 9s. “Should be in the hands of every mason or student of stone-work.”— Colliery Guardian. “ A capital handbook tor all who manipulate stone for building or ornamental purposes.”— Machinery Market. Pump Construction and Management. PUMPS AND PUMPING : A Handbook for Pump Users. Being Notes on Selection, Construction and Management. By M. Powis Bale, M.I.M.E., Author of “ Woodworking Machinery,” &c. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. “The matter is set forth as concisely as possible. In fact, condensation rather than diffuseness has been the author’s aim throughout; yet he does not seem to have omitted anything likely to be of use.”—Journal of Gas Lighting. Milling Machinery, etc. MILLING MACHINES AND PROCESSES: A Practical Treatise on Shaping Metals by Rotary Cutters, including Information on Making and Grinding the Cutters. By Paul N. Hasluck, Author of “ Lathe- work.” With upwards of 300 Engravings. Large crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. Turning. ^ust Pubhshed- LATHE-WORK : A Practical Treatise on the Tools, Appliances, and Processes employed in the Art of Turning. By Paul N. Hasluck. Fourth Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Cr. 8vo, 5s. cloth. “Written by a man who knows, not only how work ought to be done, but who also knows how to do it, and how to convey his knowledge to others. To all turners this book would be valuable.” —Engineering. “ We can safely recommend the work to young engineers. To the amateur it will simply be invaluable. To the student it will convey a great deal of useful information.”—Engineer. Screw-Cutting. SCREW THREADS : And Methods of Producing Them. With Numerous Tables, and complete directions for using Screw-Cutting Lathes. By Paul N. Hasluck, Author of “Lathe-Work,” &c. With Fifty Illustra- tions. Third Edition, Enlarged. Waistcoat-pocket size, is. 6d. cloth. “ Full of useful information, hints and practical criticism. Taps, dies and screwing-tools gene- rally are illustrated and their action described.”—Mechanical World. “ It is a complete compendium of all the details of the screw cutting lathe; in fact a miiltum- in-parvo on all the subjects it treats upon.”—Carpenter and Builder. Smith’s Tables for Mechanics, etc. TABLES, MEMORANDA, AND CALCULATED RESULTS, FOR MECHANICS, ENGINEERS, ARCHITECTS, BUILDERS, etc. Selected and Arranged by Francis Smith. Fifth Edition, thoroughly Revised and Enlarged, with a New Section of Electrical Tables, Formula:, and Memoranda. Waistcoat-pocket size, is. 6d. limp leather. [Just published, “ It would, perhaps, be as difficult to make a small pocket-book selection of notes and formulae to suit ALL engineers as it would be to make a universal medicine; but Mr. Smith’s waistcoat- pocket collection may be looked upon as a successful attempt.”—Engineer. “The best example we have ever seen of 250 pages of useful matter packed into the dimen- sions of a card-case.”—Building News. “A veritable pocket treasury of knowledge.”—Iron. Engineer’s and Machinist’s Assistant. THE ENGINEER’S, MILLWRIGHT'S, and MACHINIST’S PRACTICAL ASSISTANT. A collection of UsefulTables, Rules and Data, By William Templeton. 7th Edition, with Additions. i8mo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “ Occupies a foremost place among books of this kind. A more suitable present to an appren- tice to any of the mechanical trades could not possibly be made.”—Building News. “A deservedly popular, work, it should be in the ‘drawer’ of every mechanic.”—English Mechanic. Iron and Steel. “ IRON AND STEEL ” : A Work for the Forge, Foundry, Factory, and Office, Containing ready, useful, and trustworthy Information for Iron- masters ; Managers of Bar, Rail, Plate, and Sheet Rolling Mills; Iron and Metal Founders ; Iron Ship and Bridge Builders ; Mecnanical, Mining, and Consulting Engineers ; Contractors, Builders, &c. By Charles Hoare. Eighth Edition, Revised and considerably Enlarged. 32mo, 6s. leather. “ One of the best of the pocket books.”—English Mechanic. “We cordially recommend this book to those engaged in considering the details of all kinds of Iron and steel works,”—Naval Science.CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. Engineering Construction. PATTERN-MAKING : A Practical Treatise, embracing the Main Types of Engineering Construction, and including Gearing, both Hand and Machine made, Engine Work, Sheaves and Pulleys, Pipes and Columns, Screws, Machine Parts, Pumps and Cocks, the Moulding of Patterns in Loam and Greensand, &c., together with the methods of Estimating the weight of Castings; to which is added an Appendix of Tables for Workshop Reference. By a Foreman Pattern Maker. With upwards of Three Hundred and Seventy Illustrations. Crown Svo, js. 6d. cloth. “ A well written technical guide, evidently written by a man who understands and has prac- tised what he has written about. . . . We c rdially recommend it to engineering students, young j jurneymen, and others desirous of being initiated into the mysteries of patt.- rn-making.”—Builder. “ We can confidently recommend this comprehensive treat be.’—Building News. “ Likely to prove a welcome guide to many workmen, especially to draughtsmen who have lacked a training in the shops, pupils pursuing their practical studies in our factories, and to em- ployers and managers in engineering works ."—Hardware Trade Journal. “More than 370 illustrations help to explain the text, which is, however, always clear and ex- plicit, thus rendering the work an excellent vade mecura for the apprentice who desires to become master of his trade.”—English, Mechanic. Dictionary of Mechanical Engineering Terms. LOCKWOOD’S DICTIONARY OF TERMS USED IN THE PRACTICE OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, embracing those current in the Drawing Office, Pattern Shop, Foundry, Fitting, Turning, Smith’s and Boiler Shops, &c. &c. Comprising upwards of 6,000 Definitions. Edited by A Foreman Pattern-Maker, Author of “Pattern Making.” Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. ‘‘Just the sort of handy dictionary required by the various trades engaged in mechanical en- gineering. The practical engineering pupil will find the book of great value in his studies, and every foreman engineer and mechanic should have a copy.”—Building News. “After a careiul examination of the book, and trying all manner of words, we think that the engineer will here find all he is likely to require. It will be largely used.”—Practical Engineer. “One of the most useful books which can be presented to a mechanic or student.”—English Mechanic. “ Not merely a dictionary, but, to a certain extent, also a most valuable guide. It strikes us as a happy idea to combine witii a definition of the phrase useful information on the subject of which it treats.”—Machinery Market. “No word having connection with any branch of constructive engineering seems to be omitted. No more comprehensive work has been, so far, issued. —Knowledge. “We strongly commend this useful and reliable adviser to our friends in the workshop, and to students everywhere.”—Colliery Guardian. Steam Boilers. A TREATISE ON STEAM BOILERS: Their Strength, Con- struction, and Economical Working. By Robert Wilson, C.E. Fifth Edition. i2mo, 6s. cloth. “The best treatise that has ever been published on steam boilers.”—Engineer. “The author shows himself perfect master of his subject, and we heartily recommend all em- ploying steam power to possess themselves of the work.”—Ryland's Iron Trade Circular. BOILER AND ^FACTORY CHIMNEYS; Their Draught-Power and Stability. With a Chapter on Lightning Conductors. By Robert Wilson, A.I.C.E., Author of “A Treatise on Steam Boilers,” &c. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6cl. cloth. “Full of userul information, definite in statement, and thoroughly practical in treatment. — The Local Government Chronicle. “ A valuable contribution to the iterature of scientific building.”—The Builder. Boiler Making. THE BOILER-MAKER’S READY RECKONER & ASSIST- ANT. With Examples of Practical Geometry and Templating, for the Use of Platers, Smiths and Riveters. By John Courtney, Edited by D. K. Clark, M.I.C.E. Third Edition, 480 pp., with i4oIllusts. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. half-bound. “ No workman or apprentice should be without this book.”— Iron Trade Circular. “ Boiler-makers will readily recognise the value of this volume. . . . The tables are clearly printed, and so arranged that they can be referred to with the greatest facility, so that it cannot be doubted that they will be generally appreciated and much used.”—Mining Journal. Warming. HEATING BY HOT WATER; with Information and Sug- gestions on the best Methods of Heating Public, Private and Horticultural Buildings. By Walter Jones. With Illustrations, crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ We confidently recommend all interested in heating by hot water to secure a copy of this valuable little treatise.”— The Plumber and Decorator.5 MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, etc. Steam Engine. TEXT-BOOK ON THE STEAM ENGINE. With a Sup- plement on Gas Engines, and Part II. on Heat Engines. By T. M. Goodeve, M.A., Barrister-at-Law, Professor ot Mechanics at the Normal School of Science and the Royal School of Mines; Author of “The Princi- ples of Mechanics,” “The Elements ot Mechanism,” &c. Eleventh Edition, Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s. cloth. “Professor Goodeve has given us a treatise on the steam engine which will bear comparison with anything written by Huxley or Maxwell, and we can award it no higher praise.”—Engineer. “ Mr. Goodeve’s text-book is a work of which every young engineer should possess himself.’ ’ —Mining Journal. Gas Engines. ON GAS-ENGINES. Being a Reprint, with some Additions, of the Supplement to the Text-book on the Steam Engine, by T. M. Goodeve, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “ Like all Mr. Goodeve’s writings, the present is no exception in point of general excellence. It is a valuable little volume.”—Mechanical World. Steam. THE SAFF USE OF STEAM. Containing Rules for Un- professional Steam-users. By an Engineer. Sixth Edition. Sewed, 6d. “ If steam-users would but learn this little book by heart boiler explosions would become sensations by their rarity ."—English Mechanic. Reference Rook for Mechanical Engineers. THE MECHANICAL ENGINEER'S REFERENCE BOOK, for Machine and Boiler Construction. In Two Parts. Part I. General Engineering Data. Part II. Boiler Construction. With 51 Plates and numerous Illustrations. By Nelson Foley, M.I.N.A. Folio, £5 5s. half- bound. [Just published. Coal and Speed Tables. A POCKET BOOK OF COAL AND SPEED TABLES, for Engineers and Steam-users. By Nelson Foley, Author of “Boiler Con- struction.” Pocket-size, 3s. 6d. cloth; 4s. leather. “ These tables are designed to meet the requirements of every-day use ; and may be com- mended to engineers and users of steam.”— Iron. “ This pocket-book well merits the attention of the practical engineer. Mr. Foley has com- piled a very useful set of tables, the information contained in which is frequently required by engineers, coal consumers and users of steam.”—Iron and Coal Trades Review. Fire Engineering. FIRES, FIRE-ENGINES, AND FIRE-BRIGADES. With a History of Fire-Engines, their Construction, Use, and Management; Re- marks on Fire-Proof Buildings, and the Preservation of Life from Fire ; Foreign Fire Systems, &c. By C. F. T. Young, C.E. With numerous Illustrations, 544 pp., demy 8vo, £1 4s. cloth. “ To such of our readers as are interested in the subject of fires and fire apparatus, we can most heartily commend this book.”—Engineering. “It displays much evidence of careful research; and Mr. Young has put his facts neatly together. It is evident enough that his acquaintance with the practical details of the construction oi steam fire engines is accurate and full.”—Engineer. Estimating for Engineering Work, A c. ENGINEERING ESTIMATES, COSTS AND ACCOUNTS: A Guide to Commercial Engineering. With numerous Examples of Esti- mates and Costs of Millwright Work, Miscellaneous Productions, Steam Engines and Steam Boilers; and a Section on the Preparation of Costs Accounts. By A General Manager. Demy 8vo, 12s. cloth. “ This is an excellent and very useful book, covering subject-matter in constant requisition in every factory and workshop. . . . The book is invaluable, not only to the young engineer, but also to the estimate department of every works.”—Builder. “We accord the work unqualified praise. The information is given in a plain, straightforward manner, and bears throughout evidence of the intimate practical acquaintance of the author with every phrase of commercial engineering.”—Mechanical World. Elementary Mechanics. CONDENSED MECHANICS. A Selection of Formulas, Rules, Tables, and Data for the Use of Engineering Students, Science Classes, &c. In Accordance with the Requirements of the Science and Art Department By W. G. Crawford Hughes, A.M.I.C.E. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. \_Just published.CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. 6 THE POPULAR WORKS OF MICHAEL REYNOLDS (“ The Engine Driver’s Friend ”). Locomotive-Engine Driving. LOCOMOTIVE-ENGINE DRIVING : A Practical Manual for Engineers in charge of Locomotive Engines. By Michael Reynolds, Member of the Society of Engineers, formerly Locomotive Inspector L. B. and S. C. R. Eighth Edition. Including a Key to the Locomotive Engine. With Illus- trations and Portrait of Author. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. cloth. “Mr. Reynolds has supplied a want, and has supplied it well. We can confidently recommend the book, not only to the practical driver, but to everyone who takes an interest in the performance of locomotive engines.”—The Engineer. “ Mr. Reynolds has opened a new chapter in the literature of the day. This admirable practical treatise, of the practiced utility of which we have to speak in terms of warm commendation.”— Athencewn. “ Evidently the work of one who knows his subject thoroughly.”— Rail-way Service Gazette. “Were the cautions and rules given in the book to become part of the every-day working of our engine-drivers, we might have fewer distressing accidents to deplore.”—Scotsman. Stationary Engine Driving. STATIONARY ENGINE DRIVING : A Practical Manual for Engineers in charge of Stationary Engines. By Michael Reynolds. Fourth Edition, Enlarged. With Plates and Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. cloth. “ The author is thoroughly acquainted with his subjects, and his advice on the various points treated is clear and practical. ... He has produced a manual which is an exceedingly useful one for the class for whom it is specially intended.”—Engineering-. “Our author leaves no stone unturned. He is determined that his readers shall not only know something about the stationary engine, but all about it ."—Engineer. “An engineman who has mastered the contents of Mr. Reynolds’s bookwill require but little actual experience with boilers and engines before he can be trusted to look after them.”—EnglishMechanic. The Engineer, Fireman^ and Engine-Boy. THE MODEL LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEER, FIREMAN, and ENGINE-BOY. Comprising a Historical Notice of the Pioneer Locomotive Engines and their Inventors. By Michael Reynolds. With numerous Illus- trations and a fine Portrait of George Stephenson. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. cloth. “ From the technical knowledge of the author it will appeal to the railway man of to-day more forcibly than anything written by Dr. Smiles. . . . The volume contains information of a tech- nical kind, and facts that every driver should be familiar with.”—English Mechanic. “We should be glad to see this book in the possession of everyone in the kingdom who has ever laid, or is to lay, hands on a locomotive engine.”—Iron. Continuous Bailway Brahes. CONTINUOUS RAILWAY BRAKES : A Practical Treatise on the several Systems in Use in the United Kingdom; their Construction and Performance. With copious Illustrations and numerous Tables. By Michael Reynolds. Large crown 8vo, 9s. cloth. “A popular explanation of the different brakes. It will be of great assistance in forming public opinion, and will be studied with benefit by those who take an interest in the brake.”—English Mechanic. “Written with sufficient technical detail to enable the principle and relative connection of the various parts of each particular brake to be readily grasped.”—Mechanical World. Engine-Driving Life. ENGINE-DRIVING LIFE : Stirring Adventures and Incidents in the Lives of Locomotive-Engine Drivers. By Michael Reynolds. Second Edition, with Additional Chapters. Crown 8vo. as. cloth. “From first to last perfectly fascinating. Wilkie Collins’s most thrilling conceptions are thrown nto the shade by true incidents, endless in their variety, related in every page.”—North British Mail. “Anyone who wishes to get a real insight into railway life cannot do better than read * Engine- Driving Life’ for himself; and if he once take it up he will find that the author’s enthusiasm and real ove of the engine-driving profession will carry him on till he has read every page. ''—Saturday Review. Docket Companion for Enginemen. THE ENGINEMAN'S POCKET COMPANION AND PRAC- TICAL EDUCATOR FOR ENGINEMEN, BOILER ATTENDANTS, AND MECHANICS. By Michael Reynolds. With Forty-five Illustra- tions and numerous Diagrams. Second Edition, Revised. Royal i8mo, 3s. 6d., strongly bound for pocket wear. “This admirable work is well suited to accomplish its object, being the honest workmanship of a competent engineer.”—Glasgow Herald. ‘ ‘ A most meritorious work, giving in a succinct and practical form all the information an engine- minder desirous of mastering the scientific principles of his daily calling would require.”—Miller. “ A boon to those who are striving to become efficient mechanics.”—Daily Chronicle.7 CIVIL ENGINEERING, SURVEYING, etc. French~ English Glossary for Engineers, etc. A POCKET GLOSSARY of TECHNICAL TERMS: ENGLISH- FRENCH, FRENCH-ENGLISH; with Tables suitable for the Architectural, Engineering, Manufacturing and Nautical Professions. By John James Fletcher, Engineer and Surveyor. 200 pp, Waistcoat-pocket size, is. 6d., limp leather. “ It ought certainly to be in the waistcoat-pocket of every professional man ."—Iron. “ It is a very great advantage for readers and correspondents in France and England to have so large a number of the words relating to engineering and manufacturers collected in a liliputian volume. The little book will be useful both to students and travellers.1 —Architect. “ The glossary of terms is very complete, and many of the tables are new and well arranged. We cordially commend the book .’’—Mechanical World, Foldable Engines, THE PORTABLE ENGINE; ITS CONSTRUCTION AND MANAGEMENT. A Practical Manual for Owners and Users of Steam Engines generally. By William Dyson Wansbrough. With 90 Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ This is a work of value to those who use steam machinery. . . . Should be read by every- one who has a steam engine, on a farm or elsewhere.”—Mark Lane Express. “ We cordially commend this work to buyers and owners of steam engines, and to those who have to do with their construction or use.”— Timber Trades Journal. “ Such a general knowledge of the steam engine as Mr. Wansbrough furnishes to the reader should be acquired by all intelligent owners and others who use the steam engine.”—Building News. “ An excellent text-book of this useful form of engine, which describes with all necessary minuteness the details of the various devices. . . ‘ The Hints to Purchasers contain a good deal of contmonsense and practical wisdom.”—English Mechanic. CIVIL ENGINEERING, SURVEYING, etc. MR. HUMBER’S IMPORTANT ENGINEERING BOOKS. The Water Supply of Cities and Towns. A COMPREHENSIVE TREATISE on the WATER-SUPPLY OF CITIES AND TOWNS. By William Humber, A-M.Inst.C.E., and M. Inst. M.E., Author of “ Cast and Wrought Iron Bridge Construction,” &c. &c. Illustrated with 50 Double Plates, 1 Single Plate, Coloured Frontispiece, and upwards of 250 Woodcuts, and containing 400 pages of Text. Imp. 4to, £6 6s. elegantly and substantially half-bound in morocco. I. Historical Sketch of some of the means that have been adopted for the Supply of Water to Cities and Towns.—II. Water and the Fo- reign Matter usually associated with it.—III. !? Tinfoil end TTiron/n-oflon _ TI7 Crwinrrp ->nd List of Contents. Conduits.—XIII. Distribution of Water.—XIV. Meters, Service Pipes, and House Fittings.— XV. The Law and Economy of Water Works. XVI. Constant and Intermittent Supply.— Rainfall and Evaporation.—IV. Springs and the water-bearing formations of various dis- tricts.—V. Measurement and Estimation of the flow of Water —VI. On the Selection of the Source of Supply.—VII. Wells.—VIII. Reser- voirs.—IX. The Purification of Water.—X. Pumps. — XI. Pumping Machinery. — XII. _ _ _ “The most systematic and valuable work upon water supply hitherto produced in English, Works illustrated, among which will be found: Aberdeen, Bideford, Canterbury, Dundee, Halifax, Lambeth, Rotherham, Dublin, and others. In any other language. . . . Mr. Humber’s work is characterised almost throughout by an exhaustiveness much more distinctive of French and German than of English technical treatises.” —Engineer. “ We can congratulate Mr. Humber on having been able to give so large an amount of infor- mation on a subject so important as the water supply of cities and towns. The plates, fifty in dumber, are mostly drawings of executed works, and alone would have commanded the attention of every engineer whose practice may lie in this branch of the profession.”—Builder. Cast and Wrought Iron Bridge Construction. A COMPLETE AND PRACTICAL TREATISE ON CAST AND WROUGHT IRON BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION, including Iron Foundations. In Three Parts—Theoretical, Practical, and Descriptive. By William Humber, A.M.Inst.C.E., and M.Inst.M.E. Third Edition, Re- vised and much improved, with 115 Double Plates (20 of which now first appear in this edition), and numerous Additions to the Text. In Two Vols., imp. 4to, £6 16s. 6d. half-bound in morocco. “A very valuable contribution to the standard literature of civil engineering. In addition to elevations, plans and sections, large scale details are given which very much enhance the instruc- tive worth of those illustrations.”—Civil Engineer and Architect’s Journal. “Mr. Humber’s stately volumes, lately issued—in which the most important bridges erected during the last five years, under the direction of the late Mr. Brunei, Sir W. Cubitt, Mr. Hawk- shaw, Mr. Page, Mr. Fowler, Mr. Hemans, and others among our most eminent engineers, are drawn and specified in great detail.”—Engineer.CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. MR. HUMBER’S GREAT WORK ON MODERN ENGINEERING. Complete in Four Volumes, imperial 4to, price £12 12s., half-morocco. Each Volume sold separately as follows:— A RECORD OF THE PROGRESS OF MODERN ENGINEER- ING. First Series. Comprising Civil, Mechanical, Marine, Hydraulic, Railway, Bridge, and other Engineering Works, &c. By William Humber, A-M.Inst.C.E., &c. Imp. 4to, with 36 Double Plates, drawn to a large scale, Photographic Portrait of John Hawkshaw, C.E., F.R.S., &c., and copious descriptive Letterpress, Specifications, &c., £3 3s. half-morocco. List of the Plates and Diagrams. Victoria Station and Roof, L. B. & S. C. R. Thames, West London Extension Railway $5 plates); Armour Plates: Suspension i . Thames (4 plates); The Allen Engine ; Sus» pension Bridge, Avon (3 plates); Underground Railway (3 plates). _____ 1. and G. W. R. (6 plates); Roof of Cremorne Music Hall; Bridge over G. N. Railway; Roof of Station, Dutch Rhenish Rail (2 plates); Bridge over the “ Handsomely lithographed, and printed. It will find favour with many who desire to preserve In a permanent form copies of the plans and specifications prepared for the guidance of the con? tractors for many important engineering worksEngineer. HUMBER'S RECORD OF MODERN ENGINEERING. Second Series. Imp. 4to, with 36 Double Plates, Photographic Portrait of Robert Stephenson, C.E., M.P., F.R.S., &c., and copious descriptive Letterpress, Specifications, &c., £3 3s. half-morocco. List of the Plates and Diagrams. Birkenhead Docks, Low Water Basin (15 plates); Charing Cross Station Roof, C. C. Railway (3 plates); Digsw'ell Viaduct, Great Northern Railway ; Robbery Wood Viaduct, Great Northern Railway; Iron Permanent Way; Clydach Viaduct, Merthyr, Tredegar, and Abergavenny Railway; Ebbw Viaduct, Merthyr, Tredegar, and Abergavenny Rail- way; College Wood Viaduct, Cornwall Rail- way ; Dublin Winter Palace Roof (3 plates); Bridge over the Thames, L. C. & D. Railway (6 plates); Albert Harbour, Greenock (4 plates). HUMBER'S RECORD OF MODERN ENGINEERING. Third Series. Imp. 4to, with 40 Double Plates, Photographic Portrait of J. R. M'Clean, late Pres. Inst. C.E., and copious descriptive Letterpress, Speci- fications, &c., £3 3s. half-morocco. List of the Plates and Diagrams. Main Drainage, Metropolis.—North Side.—Map showing Interception of Sewers; Middle Level Sewer (2 plates); Outfall Sewer, Bridge over River Lea (3 plates); Outfall Sewer, Bridge over Marsh Lane, North Woolwich and South Sides). Thames Embankment.—Section of River Wall; Steamboat Pier, Westminster (2 plates) ; Landing Stairs between Charing Cross and Waterloo Bridges ; York Gate (2 plates); Over- flow and Outlet at Savoy Street Sewer (3 plates); Steamboat Pier, Waterloo Bridge (3 plates); Junction of Sewers, Plans and Sections; Gullies, Plans and Sections; Rolling Stock; Granite and Iron Forts. Barking Railway (3 plates); Outfall Sewer, Bridge over East London Waterworks’ Feeder (2 plates); Outfall Sewer, Reservoir (2 plates); Outfall Sewer, Tumbling Bay and Outlet; Out- fall Sewer, Penstock^. Smith Side.—Outfall Sewer, Bermondsey Branch (2 plates); Outfall “ The drawings have a constantly increasing value, and whoever desires to possess clear repre- sentations of the two great works carried out by our Metropolitan Board will obtain Mr. Humber’s volume.”—Engineer. HUMBER’S RECORD OF MODERN ENGINEERING. Fourth Series. Imp. 4to, with 36 Double Plates, Photographic Portrait of John Fowler, late Pres. Inst. C.E., and copipus descriptive Letterpress, Speci- fications, &c., £3 3s. half-morocco. List of the Plates and Diagrams. Mesopotamia; Viaduct over the River Wye, — - ~ is Via- Abbey Mills Pumping Station, Main Drain- age, Metropolis (4 plates); Barrow Docks (5 plates); Manquis Viaduct, Santiago and Val- paraiso’Railway (2 plates); Adam's Locomo- tive St. Helen’s Canal Railway (2 plates); i Street Station Roof, Charing Cross Midland Railw duct, Cornwall I _ . Iron Cylinder for Diving I 11; Millwall Docks Ports, and Breakwaters (3 plates). “We gladly welcome another year’s _ . Mr. Humber. The accuracy and general excellence of this work are well known, while its useful- ness in giving the measurements and details of some of the latest examples of engineering, as carried out by the most emin""*- ~'"'t ' n the profession, cannot be too highly prized.”—Artisan.CIVIL ENGINEERING, SURVEYING, etc. 9 MR. HUMBER'S ENGINEERING BOOKS—continued. Strains, Calculation of, A HANDY BOOK FOR THE CALCULATION OF STRAINS IN GIRDERS AND SIMILAR STRUCTURES, AND THEIR STRENGTH. Consisting of Formulae and Corresponding Diagrams, with numerous details for Practical Application, &c. By William Hum3er, A-M.Inst.C.E., &c. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, nearly ioo Woodcuts and 3 Plates, 7s. 6d. cloth “ The formulae are neatly expressed, and the diagrams good.”—Athenceum. “We heartily commend this really handy book to our engineer and architect readers.’’—Eng- lish Mechanic. Barlow’s Strength of Materials, enlarged by Humber A TREATISE ON THE STRENGTH OF MATERIALS ; with Rules for Application in Architecture, the Construction of Suspension Bridges, Railways, &c. By Peter Barlow, F.R.Si A New Edition, revised by his Sons, P. W. Barlow, F.R.S., and W. H. Barlow, F.R.S.; to which are added, Experiments by Hodgkinson, Fairbairn, and Kirkaldy ; and Formulas for Calculating Girders, &c. Arranged and Edited by W. Humber, A-M.Inst.C.E. Demy 8vo, 400 pp., with 19 large Plates and numerous Wood- cuts, 18s. cloth. “ Valuable alike to the student, tyro, and the experienced practitioner, It will always rank in future, as it has hitherto done, as the standard treatise on that particular subject.”—Engineer. “ There is no greater authority than Barlow.”—Building News. “Asa scientific work of the first class, it deserves a foremost place on the bookshelves of every civil engineer and practical mechanic.”—English Mechanic. Trigonometrical Surveying, AN OUTLINE OF THE METHOD OF CONDUCTING A TRIGONOMETRICAL SURVEY, for the Formation of Geographical and Topographical Maps and Plans, Military Reconnaissance, Levelling, &c., with Useful Problems, Formulae, and Tables. By Lieut.-General Frome, R.E. Fourth Edition, Revised and partly Re-written by Major General Sir Qharles Warren, G.C.M.G., R.E. With 19 Plates and 115 Woodcuts, royal 8vo, 16s. cloth. “The simple fact that a fourth edition has been called for Is the best testimony to Its merits. No words of praise from us can strengthen the position so well and so steadily maintained by this work. Sir Charles Warren has revised the entire work, and made such additions as were necessary to bring every portion of the contents up to the present date.”—Broad A rrow. Field Fortification, A TREATISE ON FIELD FORTIFICATION, THE ATTACK OF FORTRESSES, MILITARY MINING, AND RECONNOITRING. By Colonel I. S. Macaulay, late Professor of Fortification in the R.M.A., Wool- wich. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo, cloth, with separate Atlas of 12 Plates, 12s. Oblique Bridges, A PR A CTICAL AND THEORETICAL ESS A Y ON OBLIQUE BRIDGES. With 13 large Plates. By the late George Watson Buck, M.I.C.E. Third Edition, revised by his Son, J. H. Watson Buck, M.I.C.E.; and with the addition of Description to Diagrams for Facilitating the Con- struction of Oblique Bridges, by W. H. Barlow, M.I.C.E. Royal 8vo, 12s, cloth. “ The standard text-book for all engineers regarding skew arches is Mr. Buck’s treatise, and it would be impossible to consult a better.”—Engineer. “Mr. Buck’s treatise is recognised as a standard text-book, and his treatment has divested the subject of many of the intricacies supposed to belong to it. As a guide to the engineer and archi- tect, on a confessedly difficult subject, Mr. Buck’s work is unsurpassed.”—Building News. Water Storage, Conveyance and Utilisation, WATER ENGINEERING : A Practical Treatise on the Measure- ment, Storage, Conveyance and Utilisation of Water for the Supply of Towns, for Mill Power, and for other Purposes. By Charles Slagg, Water and Drainage Engineer, A.M.Inst.C.E., Author of “Sanitary Work in the Smaller Towns, and inVillages,” «&c. With numerous Illusts. Cr. 8vo, ys. 6d. cloth. “ As a small practical treatise on the water supply of towns, and on some applications of water-power, the work is in many respects excellent ."—Engineering. “ The author has collated the results deduced from the experiments of the most eminent authorities, and has presented them in a compact and practical form, accompanied by very clear and detailed explanations. . . . The application of water as a motive power is treated very carefully and exhaustively.”—Builder. “For anyone who desires to begin the study of hydraulics with a consideration of the practical applications of the science there is no better guide.”—Architect.10 CROSBY LOCKWOOD SON'S CATALOGUE. Statics, Graphic and Analytic, GRAPHIC AND ANALYTIC STATICS, in their Practical Applu cation to the Treatment of Stresses in Roofs, Solid Girders, Lattice, Bowstring and Suspension Bridges, Braced Iron Arches and Piers, and other Frameworks. By R. Hudson Graham, C.E. Containing Diagrams and Plates to Scale. With numerous Examples, many taken from existing Structures. Specially arranged for Class-work in Colleges and Universities. Second Edition, Re- vised and Enlarged. 8vo, 16s. cloth. “Mr. Graham’s book will find a place wherever graphic and analytic statics are used or studied.’’ —Engineer. “ The work is excellent from a practical point of view, and has evidently been prepared with much care. The directions for working are ample, and are illustrated by an abundance of well- selected examples. It is an excellent text-book-for the practical draughtsman.’’— Athenceum. Student’s Text-Booh on Surveying, PRACTICAL SURVEYING: A Text-Book for Students pre- paring for Examination or for Survey-work in the Colonies. By George W. Usill, A.M.I.C.E., Author of “The Statistics of the Water Supply of Great Britain.” With Four Lithographic Plates and upwards of 330 Illustra- tions. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. “ The best forms of instruments are described as to their construction, uses and modes of employment, and there are innumerable hints on work and equipment such as the author, in his experience as surveyor, draughtsman and teacher, has found necessary, and which the student in his inexperience will find most serviceable.”—Engineer. “• The latest treatise in the English language on surveying, and we have no hesitation in say- ing that the student will find it a better guide than any of its predecessors .... Deserves to be recognised as the first book which should be put in the hands of a pupil of Civil Engineering, and every gentleman of education who sets out for the Colonies would find it well to have a copy.”—Architect. “ A very useful, practical handbook on field practice. Clear, accurate and not too con- densed.”—journal of Education. Survey Practice, AID TO SURVEY PRACTICE, for Reference in Surveying, Level- ling, and Setting-out; and in Route Surveys of Travellers by Land and Sea. With Tables, Illustrations, and Records. By Lowis D’A. Jackson, A.M.I.C.E., Author of “ Hydraulic Manual,” “Modern Metrology,” &c. Second Edition, Enlarged. Large crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “Mr. Jackson has produced a valuable vade-mecum for the surveyor. We can recommend this book as containing an admirable supplement to the teaching of the accomplished surveyor. Athenceum. “ As a text-book we should advise all surveyors to place it in their libraries, and study well the matured instructions afforded in its pages.”—Colliery Guardian. “ The author brings to his work a fortunate union of theory and practical experience which, aided by a clear and lucid style of writing, renders the book a very useful one.”—Builder. Surveying, Land and Marine, LAND AND MARINE SURVEYING, in Reference to the Pre- paration of Plans for Roads and Railways; Canals, Rivers, Towns’ Water Supplies; Docks and Harbours. With Description and Use of Surveying Instruments. By W. D. Haskoll, C.E., Author of “ Bridge and Viaduct Con- struction,’’ &c. Second Edition, Revised, with Additions. Large cr. 8vo, 9s. cl. “ This book must prove of great value to the student. We have no hesitation in recommend- ing it, feeling assured that it will more than repay a careful study.”—Mechanical IVorld. “ A most useful and well arranged book for the aid of a student. We can strongly recommend it as a carefully-written and valuable text-book. It enjoys a well-deserved repute among surveyors." —Builder. “ This volume cannot fail to prove of the utmost practical utility. It may be safely recommended to all students who aspire to become clean and expert surveyors.”—Mining Journal. Tunnelling. PR A CTICA L TUNNELLING. Explaining in detail the Setting- out of the works, Shaft-sinking and Heading-driving, Ranging the Lines and Levelling underground, Sub-Excavating, Timbering, and the Construction of the Brickwork ot Tunnels, with the amount of Labour required for, and the Cost of, the various portions of the work. By Frederick W. Simms, F.G.S., M.Inst.C.E. Third Edition, Revised and Extended by D. Kinnear Clark, M.Inst. C.E. Imperial 8vo, with 21 Folding Plates and numerous Wood Engravings, 30s. cloth. “The estimation in which Mr. Simms’s book on tunnelling has been held for over thirty years cannot be more truly expressed than in the words of the late Prof. Rankine:—‘ The best source of in- formation on the subject of tunnels is Mr.F.W. Simms’s work on Practical Tunnelling.’ "—Architect. “ It has been regarded from the first as a text book of the subject. . . . Mr. Clarke has added immensely to the value of the book.”—Engineer.CIVIL ENGINEERING, SURVEYING, etc. ii Levelling, A TREATISE ON THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF LEVELLING. Showing its Application to purposes of Railway and Civil Engineering, in the Construction of Roads; with Mr.TELFORD’s Rules for the same. By Frederick W. Simms, F.G.S., M.Inst.C.E. Seventh Edition, with the addition of Law’s Practical Examples for Setting-out Railway Curves, and Trautwine’s Field Practice of Laying-out Circular Curves. With 7 Plates and numerous Woodcuts, 8vo, 8s. 6d. cloth. *** Trautwine on Curves may be had separate, 5s. “ The text-book on levelling in most of our engineering schools and colleges.”—Engineer. “ The publishers have rendered a substantial service to the profession, especially to the younger members, by bringing out the present edition of Mr. Simms’s useful work.”—Engineering. Meat, Expansion by, EXPANSION OF STRUCTURES BY HEAT. By John Keily, C.E., late of the Indian Public Works and Victorian Railway Depart- ments. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. Summary of Contents. Section I. Formulas and Data, Section II. Metal Bars. Section III. Simple Frames. Section IV, Complex Frames and Plates. Section V. Thermal Conductivity. “ The aim the author has set before him, 1 other structures, is a laudable one, for this is a branch of physics upon which the engineer tect can find but little reliable and comprehensive data in books.”—Builder. “ Whoever is concerned to know the effect of changes of temperature on such structures as suspension bridges and the like, could not do better than consult Mr. Keily’s valuable and handy exposition of the geometrical principles involved in these changes.”—Scotsman. Section VI. Mechanical Force of Heat. Section VII. Work of Expansion and Contraction. Section VIII. Suspension Bridges. Section IX. Masonry Structures. show the effects of heat upon metallic and -u—: -rU-r. .u : ir archi- Practical Mathematics, MATHEMATICS FOR PRACTICAL MEN: Being a Common- place Book of Pure and Mixed Mathematics. Designed chiefly for the use of Civil Engineers, Architects and Surveyors. By Olinthus Gregory, LL.D., F.R.A.S., Enlarged by Henry Law, C.E. 4th Edition, carefully Revised by J. R. Young, formerly Professor of Mathematics, Belfast College, With 13 Plates, 8vo, £1 is. cloth. * “ The engineer or architect will here find ready to his hand rules for solving nearly every mathe- matical difficulty that may arise in his practice The rules are in all cases explained by means of examples, in which every step of the process is clearly worked out.”—Builder. “ One of the most serviceable books for practical mechanics. . . It is an instructive book for the student, and a text-book for him who, having once mastered the subjects it treats of, needs occasionally to refresh his memory upon them.”—Building News. JFTllsrlVfi nils* rrnhi HYDRAULIC TABLES, CO-EFFICIENTS, and FORMULA! for finding the Discharge of Water from Orifices, Notches, Weirs, Pipes, and Rivers. With New Formulas, Tables, and General Information on Rainfall, Catchment-Basins, Drainage, Sewerage, Water Supply for Towns and Mill Power. By John Neville, Civil Engineer, M.R.I.A. Third Ed., carefully Revised, with considerable Additions. Numerous Illusts. Cr. 8vo, 14s. cloth. “ Alike valuable to students and engineers in practice ; its study will prevent the annoyance of avoidable failures, and assist them to select the readiest means of successfully carrying out any given work connected with hydraulic engineering.”—Mining Journal. “ It is, of all English books on the subject, the one nearest to completeness. . . . From the good arrangement of the matter, the clear expl.anations, and abundance of formulae, the carefully calculated tables, and, above all, the thorough, acquaintance with both theory and construction, ►which is displayed from first to last, the book w be found to be an acquisitionl'—Architect. Hydraulics, HYDRAULIC MANUAL. Consisting of Working Tables and Explanatory Text. Intended as a Guide in Hydraulic Calculations and Field Operations. By Lowis D’A. Jackson, Author of “Aid to Survey Practice,” “Modern Metrology,’’ &c. Fourth Edition, Enlarged. Large cr. 8vo, 16s. cl. “ The author has had a wide experience in hydraulic engineering and has been a careful ob- server of the facts which have come under his notice, and from the great mass of material at his command he has constructed a manual which may be accepted as a trustworthy guide to this branch of the engineer’s profession. We can heartily recommend this volume to all who desire to be acquainted with the latest development of this important subject.”—Engineering. " The standard-work in this department of mechnnics.’ —Scotsman. “ The most useful feature of this work is its freedom from what is superannuated, and its thorough adoption of recent experiments; the text is, in fact, in great part a short account of the great modem experiments.”—Nature,12 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. Drainage. ON THE DRAINAGE OF LANDS, TOWNS AND BUILD- INGS. By G. D. Dempsey, C.E., Author of “ The Practical Railway En- gineer,” &c. Revised, with large Additions on Recent Practice in Drainage Engineering, by D. Kinnear Clark, M.Inst.C.E. Author of “Tramways,” “A Manual of Rules, Tables, and Data for Engineers,” &c. Second Edition. i2mo, 5s. cloth. “The new matter added to Mr. Dempsey’s excellent work is characterised by the comprehen- sive grasp and accuracy of detail for which the name of Mr. D. K. Clark is a sufficient voucher.”— Athenceum. “Asa work on recent practice in drainage engineering, the book is to be commended to all who are making that branch of engineering science their special study.”—Iron. “ A comprehensive manual on drainage engineering, and a useful introduction to the student.” Building News. Tramways and their Working. TRAMWAYS : THEIR CONSTRUCTION AND WORKING. Embracing a Comprehensive History of the System ; with an exhaustive Analysis of the various Modes of Traction, including Horse-Power, Steam, Heated Water, and Compressed Air; a Description of the Varieties of Rolling Stock; and ample Details of Cost and Working Expenses: the Progress recently made in Tramway Construction, &c. &c. By D. Kinnear Clark. M.Inst.C.E. With over 200 Wood Engravings, and 13 Folding Plates. Two Vols., large crown 8vo, 30s. cloth. “ All interested in tramways must refer to it, as all railway engineers have turned to the author’s work ‘ Railway Machinery.’”—Engineer. “ An exhaustive and practical work on tramways, in which the history of this kind of locomo- tion, and a description and cost of the various modes of laying tramways, are to be found.”— Building News. “ The best form of rails, the best mode of construction, and the best mechanical appliances are so fairly indicated in the work under review, that any engineer about to construct a tramway will be enabled at once to obtain the practical information which will be of most service to him.’ — Athenceum, Oblique Arches. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF OBLIQUE ARCHES. By John Hart. Third Edition, with Plates. Im- perial 8vo, 8s. cloth. Curves, Tables for Setting-out. TABLES OF TANGENTIAL ANGLES AND MULTIPLES for Setting-out Curves from 5 to 200 Radius. By Alexander Beazeley, M.Inst.C.E. Third Edition. Printed on 48 Cards, and sold in a cloth box, waistcoat-pocket size, 3s. 6d. “ Each table is printed on a small card, which, being placed on the theodolite, leaves the hands free to manipulate the instrument—no small advantage as regards the rapidity of work.”—Engineer. “Very handy ; a man may know that all his day’s work must fa on two of these cards, which he puts into his own card-case, and leaves the rest behind.”—Athenceum. Earthwork. EARTHWORK TABLES. Showing the Contents in Cubic Yards of Embankments, Cuttings, &c., of Heights or Depths up to an average of 80 feet. By Joseph Broadbent, C.E., and Francis Campin, C.E. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ The way in which accuracy is attained, by a simple division of each cross section into three elements, two in which are constant and one variable, is ingenious ."—Athenceum. Tunnel Shafts. THE CONSTRUCTION OF LARGE TUNNEL SHAFTS : A> Practical and Theoretical Essay. By J. H. Watson Buck, M.Inst.C.E.,, Resident Engineer, London and North-Western Railway. Illustrated with Folding Plates, royal 8vo, 12s. cloth. “ Many of the methods given are of extreme practical value to the mason ; and the observations on the form of arch, the rules for ordering the stone, and the construction of the templates will be found of considerable use. We commend the book to the engineering 'profession.''—Building News. “Will be regarded by civil engineers as of the utmost value, and calculated to save much time and obviate many mistakes.”—Colliery Guardian. Girders, Strength of. GRAPHIC TABLE FOR FACILITATING THE COMPUTA- TION OF THE WEIGHTS OF WROUGHT IRON AND STEEL GIRDERS, etc., for Parliamentary and other Estimates. By J. H. Watson Buck, M.Inst.C.E. On a Sheet, 2s.6d.13 CIVIL ENGINEERING, SURVEYING, etc. River Engineering, RIVER BARS: The Causes of their Formation, and their Treat- ment by “ Induced Tidal Scour; ” with a Description of the Successful Re- duction by this Method of the Bar at Dublin. By I. J. Mann, Assist. Eng. to the Dublin Port and Docks Board. Royal 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. “We recommend all interested in harbour works—and, indeed, those concerned in the im- provements of rivers generally—to read Mr. Mann’s interesting work on the treatment of river bars ."—Engineer. Trusses, TRUSSES OF WOOD AND IRON. Practical Applications of Science in Determining the Stresses, Breaking Weights, Safe Loads, Scantlings, and Details of Construction, with Complete Working Drawings. By William Griffiths, Surveyor, Assistant Master, Tranmere School of Science and Art. Oblong 8vo, 4s. 6d. cloth. “ This handy little book enters so minutely into every detail connected with the construction of roof trusses, that no student need be ignorant of these matters."—Practical Engineer. Railway Working. SAFE RAILWAY WORKING. A Treatise on Railway Acci- dents: Their Cause and Prevention; with a Description of Modern Appliances and Systems. By Clement E. Stretton, C.E., Vice-President and Con- sulting Engineer, Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants. With Illus- trations and Coloured Plates. Second Edition, Enlarged. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “ A book for the engineer, the directors, the managers; and, in short, all who wish for informa- tion on railway matters will find a perfect encyclopaedia in ‘ Safe Railway Working. "—Railway Review. “ We commend the remarks on railway signalling to all railway managers, especially where a uniform code and practice is advocated.”—Herefiath's Railway Journal. “The author maybe congratulated on having collected, in a very convenient form, much valuable information on the principal questions affecting the safe workii g of railways.”—Rail- way Engineer. Field-Rook for Engineers, THE ENGINEER'S, MINING SURVEYOR’S, AND CON- TRACTOR’S FIELD-BOOK. Consisting of a Series of Tables, with Rules, Explanations of Systems, and use of Theodolite for Traverse Surveying and Plotting the Work with minute accuracy by means of Straight Edge and Set Square only ; Levelling with the Theodolite, Casting-out and Reducing Levels to Datum, and Plotting Sections in the ordinary manner; setting-out Curves with the Theodolite by Tangential Angles and Multiples, with Right and Left-hand Readings of the Instrument: Setting-out Curves without Theodolite, on the System of Tangential Angles by sets of Tangents and Off- sets ; and Earthwork Tables to 80 feet deep, calculated for every 6 inches in depth. By W. Davis Haskoll, C.E. With numerous Woodcuts. Fourth Edition, Enlarged. Crown 8vo, 12s. cloth. ‘ ‘ The book is very handy; the separate tables of sines and tangents to every minute will make it useful for many other purposes, the genuine traverse tables existing all the same.”—Athen<zum. “Every person engaged in engineering field operations will estimate the importance of such a work and the amount of valuable time which will be saved by reference to a set of reliable tables prepared with the accuracy and fulness of those given in this volume.”—Railway News. Earthwork, Measurement of. A MANUAL ON EARTHWORK. By Alex. J. S. Graham, C.E. With numerous Diagrams. Second Edition. i8mo, 2s. 6d. cloth “A great amount of practical information, very admirably arranged, and available for rough estimates, as well as for the more exact calculations required in the engineer’s and contractor's offices.”—Artizan. Strains in Ironwork, THE STRAINS ON STRUCTURES OF IRONWORK; with Practical Remarks on Iron Construction. By F. W. Sheilds, M.Inst,C.E, Second Edition, with 5 Plates. Royal 8vo, 5s. cloth. The student cannot find a better little book on this subject.”—Engineer. East Iron and other Metals, Strength of. A PRACTICAL ESSAY ON THE STRENGTH OF CAST IRON AND OTHER METALS. By Thomas Tredgold, C.E. Fifth Edition, including Hodgkinson’s Experimental Researches. 8vo, 12s. cloth.4 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. ARCHITECTURE, BUILDING, etc. Construction. THE SCIENCE OF BUILDING : An Elementary Treatise on the Principles of Construction. By E. Wyndham Tarn, M.A., Architect. Third Edition, Enlarged, with 59 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo, 4s. cloth. “ A very valuable book, which we strongly recommend to all students.”—Builder. “No architectural student should be without this handbook—Architect. Villa Architecture. A HANDY BOOK OF VILLA ARCHITECTURE: Being a Series of Designs for Villa Residences in various Styles. With Outline Specifications and Estimates. By C. Wickes, Author of “The Spires and Towers of England,” &c. 61 Plates, 4to, £1 ns. 6d. half-morocco, gilt edges.1 “ The whole of the designs bear evidence of their being the work of an artistic architect, and they will prove very valuable and suggestive.”—Building- News. Text-Book for Architects. THE ARCHITECT’S GUIDE: Being a Text-Book of Useful Information for Architects, Engineers, Surveyors, Contractors, Clerks of Works, &c. &c. By Frederick Rogers, Architect, Author of “Specifica- tions for Practical Architecture,” &c. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s. cloth. “As a text-book of useful information for architects, engineers, surveyors, &c., it would ba hard to find a handier or more complete little volume.”—Standard. “A young architect could hardly have a better guide-book.”—Timber Trades Journal. Taylor and Cresy’s Home. THE ARCHITECTURAL ANTIQUITIES OF ROME. By the late G. L. Taylor, Esq., F.R.I.B.A., and Edward Cresy, Esq. New Edition, thoroughly Revised by the Rev. Alexander Taylor, M.A. (son of the late G. L. Taylor, Esq.), Fellow of Queen’s College, Oxford, and Chap- lain of Gray’s Inn. Large folio, with 130 Plates, half-bound, £3 3s. “ Taylor and Cresy’s work has from its first publication been ranked among those professional books which cannot be bettered. ... It would be difficult to find examples of drawings, even among those of the most painstaking students of Gothic, more thoroughly worked out than are the one hundred and thirty plates in this volume.”—Architect. Linear Perspective. ARCHITECTURAL PERSPECTIVE : The whole Course and Operations of the Draughtsman in Drawing a Large House in Linear Per- spective. Illustrated by 39 Folding Plates. By F. O. Ferguson. Demy 8vo, 3s. 6d. boards. [Just published. Architectural Drawing. PRACTICAL RULES ON DRA WING, for the Operative Builder and Young Student in Architecture. By George Pyne. With 14 Plates, 4to, ys. 6d. boards. Sir Wm. Chambers on Civil Architecture. THE DECORATIVE PART OF CIVIL ARCHITECTURE. By Sir William Chambers, F.R.S. With Portrait, Illustrations, Notes, and an Examination of Grecian Architecture, by Joseph Gwilt, F.S.A. Revised and Edited by W. H. Leeds, with a Memoir of the Author. 66 Plates, 4to, 21s. cloth. House Building and liepairing. THE HOUSE-OWNER'S ESTIMATOR ; or, What will it Cost to Buill, Alter, or Repair? A Price Book adapted to the Use of Unpro- fession d People, as well as for the Architectural Surveyor and Builder. By James D. Simon, A.R.I.B.A. Edited and Revised by Francis T. W. Miller, A.R.I.B.A. With numerous Illustrations. Fourth Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “In two years it will repay its cost a hundred times over ."—Field. Cottages and Villas. COUNTRY AND SUBURBAN COTTAGES AND VILLAS: Plow to Plan and Build Them. Containing 33 Plates, with Introduction, General Explanations, and Description of each Plate. By James W. Bogue, Architect, Author of “ Domestic Architecture,” &c, 4to, 10s. 6d. cloth.ARCHITECTURE, BUILDING, etc. 15 The New Builder’s Brice Book, 1892. LOCKWOOD’S BUILDER'S PRICE BOOK FOR 1892. A Comprehensive Handbook of the Latest Prices and Data for- Builders, Architects, Engineers and Contractors. Re-constructed, Re-written and Further Enlarged. By Francis T. W. Miller. 700 closely-printed pages, crown 8vo, 4s. cloth. [Just published. “ This book is a very useful one, and should find a place in every English office connected with the building and engineering professions.”—Industries. “This Price Book has been set up in new type. . . . Advantage has been taken of the transformation to add much additional information, and the volume is now an excellent book of reference.”—Architect. “ In its new and revised form this Price Book is what a work of this kind should be—compre- hensive, reliable, well arranged, legible and well bound.’—British Architect. “ A work of established reputation."—Athenceum. “This very useful handbook is well written, exceedingly clear in its explanations and great care has evidently been taken to ensure accuracy.”—Morning Advertiser. Designing, Measuring, and Valuing. THE STUDENT’S GUIDE to the PRACTICE of MEASUR- ING AND VALUING ARTIFICERS’ WORKS. Containing Directions for taking Dimensions, Abstracting the same, and bringing the Quantities into Bill, with Tables of Constants for Valuation of Labour, and for the Calcula- tion of Areas and Solidities, Originally edited by Edward Dobson, Architect. With Additions on Mensuration and Construction, and a New Chapter on Dilapidations, Repairs, and Contracts, by E. Wyndham Tarn, M.A. Sixth Edition, including a Complete Form of a Bill of Quantities. With 8 Plates and 63 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. “ Well fulfils the promise of its title-page, and we can thoroughly recommend it to the class for whose use it has been compiled. Mr. Tarn’s additions and revisions have much increased the usefulness of the work, and have especially augmented its value to students.”—Engineering. “This edition will be found the most complete treatise on the principles of measuring and valuing artificers’ work that has yet been published.”—Building News. BocTcet Estimator and Technical Guide. THE POCKET TECHNICAL GUIDE, MEASURER AND ESTIMATOR FOR BUILDERS AND SURVEYORS. Containing Tech- nical Directions for Measuring Work in all the Building Trades, Complete Specifications for Houses, Roads, and Drains, and an easy Method of Estimat- ing the parts of a Building collectively. By A. C. Beaton, Author of “ Quantities and Measurements,” &c. Sixth Edition, Revised. With 53 Woodcuts, waistcoat-pocket size, is. 6d. gilt edges. [Just published. “ No builder, architect, surveyor, or valuer should be without his ‘ Beaton.’ ’ —Building News. “Contains an extraordinary amount of information in daily requisition in measuring and estimating. Its presence in the pocket will save valuable time and trouble.”—Building World. Donaldson on Specifications, THE HANDBOOK OF SPECIFICATIONS; or, Practical Guide to the Architect, Engineer, Surveyor, and Builder, in drawing up Specifications and Contracts for Works and Constructions. Illustrated by Precedents of Buildings actually executed by eminent Architects and En- gineers. By Professor T. L. Donaldson, P.R.I.B.A., &c. New Edition, in One large Vol., 8vo, with upwards of 1,000 pages of Text, and 33 Plates, £1 ns. 6d. cloth. “ In this work forty-four specifications of executed works are given, Including the specifica- tions for parts of the new Houses of Parliament, by Sir Charles Barry, and for the new Royal Exchange, by Mr. Tite, M.P. The latter, in particular, is a very complete and remarkable document. It embodies, to a great extent, as Mr. Donaldson mentions, ‘the bill of quantities with the description of the works.’ ... It is valuable as a record, and more valuable still as a book of precedents. . . . Suffice it to say that Donaldson’s ‘Handbook of Specifications must be bought by all architects.”—Builder. Bartholomew and Bogers’ Specifications. SPECIFICATIONS FOR PRACTICAL ARCHITECTURE. A Guide to the Architect, Engineer, Surveyor, and Builder. With an Essay on the Structure and Science of Modern Buildings. Upon the Basis of the Work by Alfred Bartholomew, thoroughly Revised, Corrected, and greatly added to by Frederick Rogers, Architect. Second Edition, Revised, with Additions. With numerous Illustrations, medium 8vo, 15s. cloth. “ The collection of specifications prepared by Mr. Rogers on the basis of Bartholomew’s work is too well known to need any recommendation from us. It is one of the books with which every young architect must be equipped ; for time bas shown that the specifications cannot be set aside through any defect in them .’’—Architect.ROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. 16 Building; Civil and Ecclesiastical. A BOOK ON BUILDING, Civil and Ecclesiastical, including Church Restoration ; with the Theory of Domes and the Great Pyramid, &c. By Sir Edmund Beckett, Bart., LL.D., F.R.A.S., Author of “Clocks and Watches, and Bells,” &c. Second Edition, Enlarged. Fcap. 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ A book which is always amusing and nearly always instructive. The style throughout is in the highest degree condensed and epigrammatic.” — Times. Ventilation of Buildings. VENTILATION. A Text Book to the Practice of the Art oj Ventilating Buildings. With a Chapter upon Air Testing. By W. P. Buchan, R.P., Sanitary and Ventilating Engineer, Author of “ Plumbing,” &c. With 170 Illustrations. i2mo, 4s. cloth boards. pttblished. The Art of Plumbing. PLUMBING. A Text Book to the Practice of the Art or Craft of the Plumber, with Supplementary Chapters on House Drainage, embodying the latest Improvements. By William Paton Buchan, R.P., Sanitary Engineer and Practical Plumber. Sixth Edition, Enlarged to 370 pages, and 380 Illustrations. i2mo, 4s. cloth boards. “ A text book which may be safely put in the hands of every young plumber, and which will also be found useful by architects and medical professors.”—Builder. “ A valuable text book, and the only treatise which can be regarded as a really reliable manual of the plumber’s art.”—Building News. Geometry for the Architect, Engineer, etc. PRACTICAL GEOMETRY, for the Architect, Engineer and Mechanic. Giving Rules for the Delineation and Application of various Geometrical Lines, Figures and Curves. By E. W. Tarn, M. A., Architect, Author of “The Science of Building,” &c. Second Edition. With 172 Illus- trations, demy 8vo, 9s. cloth. “ No book with the same objects in view has ever been published in which the clearness of the rules laid down and the illustrative diagrams have been so satisfactory.”—Scotsman. The Science of Geometry. THE GEOMETRY OF COMPASSES; or, Problems Resolved by the mere Description of Circles, and the use of Coloured Diagrams and Symbols. By Oliver Byrne. Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ The treatise is a good one, and remarkable—like all Mr. Byrne’s contributions to the science of geometry—for the lucid character of its teaching.”—Building News. DECORATIVE ARTS, etc. Woods and Marbles (Imitation of). SCHOOL OF PAINTING FOR THE IMITATION OF WOODS AND MARBLES, as Taught and Practised by A. R. Van der Burg and P. Van der Burg, Directors of the Rotterdam Painting Institution. Royal folio, 183 by 12^ in., Illustrated with 24 full-size Coloured Plates; also 12 plain Plates, comprising 154 Figures. Second and Cheaper Edition. Price £1 ns.6d. List of Plates. 1. Various Tools required for Wood Painting —2, 3. Walnut: Preliminary Stages of Graining and Finished Specimen — 4. T ools used for Marble Painting and Method of Manipulation— *,6. St. Remi Marble: Earlier Operations and Finished Specimen—7. Methods of Sketching different Grains, Knots, &c.—8, 9. Ash: Pre- liminary Stages and Finished Specimen —10. Methods of Sketching Marble Grains—11, 12. Breche Marble: Preliminary Stages of Working and Finished Specimen—13. Maple: Methods Finished Specimen—19. Mahogany: Specimens of various Grains and Methods of Manipulation —20, 21. Mahogany: Earlier Stages and Finished Specimen—22,23, 24. Sienna Marble: Varieties of Grain, Preliminary Stages and Finished Specimen—25, 26, 27. Juniper Wood : Methods of producing Grain, &c.: Preliminary Stages and Finished Specimen—28, 29, 30. Vert de Mer Marble: Varieties of Grain and Methods of Working Unfinished and Finished Speci- mens—31. 32. 33. Oak: Varieties of Grain, Tools Employed, and Methods of Manipulation, Pre- Specimen—16. Methods of Sketching the dif- ferent Species of White Marble—17, 18. White Marble: Preliminary Stages of Process and *** Opinions of the Press. “ Those who desire to attain skill in the art of painting woods and marbles will find advantage consulting this book. . . . Some of the Working Men’s Clubs should give their young men the opportunity to study it.”—Builder. “ A comprehensive guide to the art. The explanations of the processes, the manipulation and management of the colours, and the beautifully executed plates will not be the least valuable to the student who aims at making his work a faithful transcript of nature.”—Building News.i7 DECORATIVE ARTS, etc. House Decoration. ELEMENTARY DECORATION. A Guide to the Simpler Forms of Everyday Art, as applied to the Interior and Exterior Decoration of Dwelling Houses, &c. By James W. Facey, Jun. With 68 Cuts. i2mo, 2s. cloth limp. PRACTICAL HOUSE DECORATION : A Guide to the Art of Ornamental Painting, the Arrangement of Colours in Apartments, and the principles of Decorative Design. With some Remarks upon the Nature and Properties of Pigments. By James William Facey, Author of “ Elementary Decoration,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. i2mo, 2s. 6d. cloth limp. N.B.—The above Two Works together in One Vol., strongly half-bound, 5s. Colour. A GRAMMAR OF COLOURING. Applied to Decorative Painting and the Arts. By George Field. New Edition, Revised, Enlarged, and adapted to the use of the Ornamental Painter and Designer. By Ellis A. Davidson. With New Coloured Diagrams and Engravings. i2mo, 3s. 6d. cloth boards. "The book is a most useful resume of the properties of pigments."—Builder, House Painting, Graining, etc. HOUSE PAINTING, GRAINING, MARBLING, AND SIGN WRITING, A Practical Manual of. By Ellis A. Davidson, Sixth Edition. With Coloured Plates and Wood Engravings, nmo, 6s. cloth boards. “ A mass of information, of use to the amateur and of value to the practical man.”—English Mechanic. “Simply invaluable to the youngster entering upon this particular calling, and highly service able to the man who is practising it.”—Furniture Gazette. Decorators, Receipts for. THE DECORATOR'S ASSISTANT: A Modern Guide to De- corative Artists and Amateurs, Painters, Writers, Gilders, &c. Containing upwards of 600 Receipts, Rules and Instructions ; with a variety of Informa- tion for General Work connected with every Class of Interior and Exterior Decorations, &c. Fourth Edition, Revised. 152 pp., crown 8vo, is. in wrapper. “ Full of receipts of value to decorators, painters, gilders, &c. The book contains the gist of larger treatises on colour and technical processes. It would be difficult to meet with a work so full of varied information on the painter's art.”—Building News. “ We recommend the work to all who, whether for pleasure or profit, require a guide to decora-.. tion.”—Plumber and Decorator. Moyr Smith on Interior Decoration. ORNAMENTAL INTERIORS, ANCIENT AND MODERNr . By J. Moyr Smith. Super-royal 8vo, with 32 full-page Plates and numerous? - smaller Illustrations, handsomely bound in cloth, gilt top, price 18s. “The book is well illustrated and handsomely got up, and contains some true criticism and & . good many good examples of decorative treatment.”— The Builder. “ This is the most elaborate and beautiful work on the artistic decoration of interiors that we have seen. . . . The scrolls, panels and other designs from the author’s own pen are very beautiful and chaste ; but he takes care that the designs of other men shall figure even more thar his own.”—Liverpool Albion. “To all who take an interest in elaborate domestic ornament this handsome volume will be welcome. ”—G rap hie. British and Foreign Marbles. MARBLE DECORATION and the Terminology of British and Foreign Marbles. A Handbook for Students. By George H. Blagrove, Author of “ Shoring and its Application,” &c. With 28 Illustrations. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ This most useful and much wanted handbook should be in the hands of every architect and builder.”—Building World. • ■ It is an excellent manual for students, and interesting to artistic readers generally.”—Saturday. Review. “ A" carefully and usefully written treatise ; the work is essentially practical.”—Scotsman. Marble Working, etc. MARBLE AND MARBLE WORKERS: A Handbook for Architects, Artists, Masons and Students. By Arthur Lee, Author of “ A Visit Fo Carrara,” “ The Working of Marble,” &c. Small crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ A really valuable addition to the technical literature of architects and masons. ’’—Building News . CCROSBY LOCKWOOD <S- SON’S CATALOGUE. DELAMOTTE’S WORKS OR ILLUMINATION AND ALPHABETS. A PRIMER OF THE ART OF ILLUMINATION, for the Use of Beginners : with a Rudimentary Treatise on the Art, Practical Directions for its exercise, and Examples taken from Illuminated MSS.,printed in Gold and Colours. By F. Delamotte. New and Cheaper Edition. Small 4to, 6s. orna- mental boards.’ “ The examples of ancient MSS. recommended to the student, which, with much good sense, the author chooses from collections accessible to all, are selected with judgment and knowledge, as well as taste.”—Athenaum. ORNAMENTAL ALPHABETS, Ancient and Medieval, from the Eighth Century, with Numerals; including Gothic, Church-Text, large and small, German, Italian, Arabesque, Initials for Illumination, Monograms, Crosses, &c. &c., for the use of Architectural and Engineering Draughtsmen, Missal Painters, Masons, Decorative Painters, Lithographers, Engravers, Carvers, &c. &c. Collected and Engraved by F. Delamotte, and printed in Colours. New and Cheaper Edition. Royal 8vo, oblong, zs. 6d. ornamental boards. “ For those who Insert enamelled sentences round gilded chalices, who blazon shop legends over shop-doors, who letter church walls with pithy sentences from the Decalogue, this book will be use- ful.”—Athetuzum. EXAMPLES OF MODERN ALPHABETS, Plain and Ornamental; including German, Old English, Saxon, Italic, Perspective, Greek, Hebrew, Court Hand, Engrossing, Tuscan, Riband, Gothic, Rustic, and Arabesque; with several Original Designs, and an Analysis of the Roman and Old English Alphabets, large and small, and Numerals, for the use of Draughtsmen, Sur- veyors, Masons, Decorative Painters, Lithographers, Engravers, Carvers, &c. Collected and Engraved by F. Delamotte, and printed in Colours. New and Cheaper Edition. Royal 8vo, oblong, zs. 6d. ornamental boards. “There is comprised in it ev:ry possible shape into which the letters of the alphabet and numerals can be formed, and the talent which has been expended in the conception of the various plain and ornamental letters is wonderful.”—Standard. MEDIAEVAL ALPHABETS AND INITIALS FOR ILLUMI- NATORS. By F. G. Delamotte. Containing zi Plates and Illuminated Title, printed in Gold and Colours. With an Introduction by J. Willis Brooks. Fourth and Cheaper Edition. Small 4to, 4s. ornamental boards. “ A volume in which the letters of the alphabet come forth glorified in gilding and all the colours of the prism interwoven and intertwined and intermingled.”—Sun. THE EMBROIDERER’S BOOK OF DESIGN. Containing Initials, Emblems, Cyphers, Monograms, Ornamental Borders, Ecclesiastical Devices, Mediaeval and Modern Alphabets, and National Emblems. Col- lected by F. Delamotte, and printed in Colours. Oblong royal 8vo, is. 6d. ornamental wrapper. “The book will be of great assistance to ladies and young children who are endowed with the art of plying the needle in this most ornamental and useful pretty work.”—East Anglian Tunes. Wood Carving. INSTRUCTIONS IN WOOD-CARVING, for Amateurs; with Hints on Design. By A Lady. With Ten Plates. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, zs. in emblematic wrapper. “The handicraft of the wood-carver, so well as a book can Impart it, may be learnt from ‘ A Lady’s ’ publication.”—Athenceum. “ The directions given are plain and easily understood.”—English Mechanic. Glass Painting. GLASS STAINING AND THE ART OF PAINTING ON GLASS. From the German of Dr. Gessert and Emanuel Otto Fromberg. With an Appendix on The Art of Enamelling. i2mo, 2s. 6d. cloth limp. Potter Painting, THE ART OF LETTER PAINTING MADE EASY. By James Greig Badenoch. With 12 full-page Engravings of Examples, is. 6d. cloth limp. “The system is a simple one, but quite original, and well worth the careful attention of letter painters. It can be easily mastered and remembered,”—Building News.CARPENTRY, TIMBER, 19 CARPENTRY, TIMBER, etc. Tredgold’s Carpentry, JRevised & Enlarged by Tarn. THE ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF CARPENTRY. A Treatise on the Pressure and Equilibrium of Timber Framing, the Resist- ance of Timber, and the Construction of Floors, Arches, Bridges, Root's, Uniting Iron and Stone with Timber, &c. To which is added an Essay on the Nature and Properties of Timber, &c., with Descriptions of the kinds of Wood used in Building; also numerous Tables of the Scantlings of Tim- ber for different purposes, the Specific Gravities of Materials, &c. By Thomas Tredgold, C.E. With an Appendix of Specimens of Various Roofs of Iron and Stone, Illustrated. Seventh Edition, thoroughly revised and considerably enlarged by E. Wyndham Tarn, M.A., Author of “The Science of Build- ing,’’ &c. With 61 Plates, Portrait of the Author, and several Woodcuts. In one large vol., 4to, price £1 5s. cloth. “Ought to be in every architect’s and every builder’s library.”—Builder. “A work whose monumental excellence must commend it wherever skilful carpentry Is con- cerned. The author’s principles are rather confirmed than impaired by time. The additional plates are of great intrinsic value.”—Building News. Woodworking Machinery. WOODWORKING MACHINERY: Its Rise, Progress, and Construction. With Hints on the Management of Saw Mills and the Economi- cal Conversion of Timber. IllustratedjWith Examples ot Recent Designs by leading English, French, and American Engineers. By M. Powis Bale, A.M.Inst.C.E., M.I.M.E. Large crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “ Mr. Bale is evidently an expert on the subject and he has collected so much information that fiis book is all-sufficient for builders and others engaged in the conversion of timber."—A^fhitect. “The most comprehensive compendium of wood-working machinery we have seen. The author is a thorough master of his subject.”—Building News. “The appearance of this book at the present time will, we should think, give a considc rable Impetus to the onward march of the machinist engaged in the designing and manufacti re of wood-working machines. It should be in the office of every wood-working factory.”—Ei glish Mechanic. Saw Mills. SA W MILLS : Their Arrangement and Management, and the Economical Conversion of Timber. (A Companion Volume to “ Woodwork- ing Machinery.”) By M. Powis Bale. With numerous Illustrations. Crow 8vo, 10s. 6d. cloth. “ The administration of a large sawing establishment is discussed, and the subiect examine,.. Cfrom a financial standpoint. We could not desire a more complete or practical treatise.”—Builder. “ We highly recommend Mr. Bale’s work to the attention and perusal of all those who are en- gaged in the art of wood conversion, or who are about building or remodelling saw-mills on im- proved principles."—Building News. Carpentering. THE CA RPENTER'S NEW G VIDE; or, Book of Lines for Car- penters ; comprising all the Elementary Principles essential for acquiring a knowledge of Carpentry. Founded on the late Peter Nicholson’s Standard Work. A New Edition, Revised by Arthur Ashpitel, F.S.A. Together with Practical Rules on Drawing, by George Pyne. With 74 Plates, 4to, £1 is. cloth. Handrailing and Stairbuilding. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON HANDRAILING : Showing New and Simple Methods for Finding the Pitch of the Plank, Drawing the Moulds, Bevelling, Jointing-up, and Squaring the Wreath. By George Collings. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged, to which is added A Treatise on Stairbuilding. With Plates and Diagrams. i2mo, 2s. 6d. cloth limp. * ‘ Will be found of practical utility in the execution of this difficult branch of joinery.”—B uilder. “ Almost every difficult phase of this somewhat intricate branch of joinery is elucidated by the lid of plates and explanatory letterpress.”—Furniture Gazette. Circular Work. CIRCULAR WORK IN CARPENTRY AND JOINERY: A Practical Treatise on Circular Work of Single and Double Curvature. By George Collings, Author of “ A Practical Treatise on Handrailing.” Illus- trated with numerous Diagrams. Second Edition. i2mo, 2s. 6d. cloth limp, “ An excellent example of what a book of this kind should be. Cheap in price, clear in defini- tion and practical in the examples selected..”—Guilder.20 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON 'S CATALOGUE. Timber Merchant’s Companion. THE TIMBER MERCHANTS AND BUILDER'S COM- PANION. Containing New and Copious Tables of the Reduced Weight and Measurement of Deals and Battens, of all sizes, from One to a Thousand Pieces, and the relative Price that each size bears per Lineal Foot to any given Price per Petersburg Standard Hundred ; the Price per Cube Foot of Square Timber to any given Price per Load of 50 Feet; the proportionate Value of Deals and Battens by the Standard, to Square Timber by the Load of 50 Feet; the readiest mode of ascertaining the Price of Scantling per Lineal Foot of any size, to any given Figure per Cube Foot, &c, &c. By William Dowsing. Fourth Edition, Revised and Corrected. Cr. 8vo, 3s. cl. “ We are glad to see a fourth edition of these admirable tables, which for correctness and simplicity of arrangement leave nothing to be desired.”—Timber Trades Journal. “An exceedingly well-arranged, clear, and concise manual of tables for the use of all who buy or sell timber.”—Journal of t onstry. Practical Timber Merchant. THE PRACTICAL TIMBER MERCHANT. Being a Guide for the use of Building Contractors, Surveyors, Builders, &c., comprising useful Tables for all purposes connected with the Timber Trade, Marks of Wood, Essay on the Strength of Timber, Remarks on the Growth of Timber, &c. By W. Richardson. Fcap. 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “This handy manual contains much valuable information for the use of timber merchants, builders, foresters, and all others connected with the growth, sale, and manufacture of timber.”— Journal of Forestry. Timber Freight Booh. THE TIMBER MERCHANTS, SAW MILLER'S, AND IMPORTER’S FREIGHT BOOK AND ASSISTANT. Comprising Rules, Tables, and Memoranda relating to the Timber Trade. By William Richardson, Timber Broker; together with a Chapter on “Speeds of Saw Mill Machinery,” by M. Powis Bale, M.I.M.E., &c. i2mo, 3s. 61. cl. boards. “A very useful manual of rules, tables, and memoranda relating to the timber trade. We re- commend it as a compendium of calculation to all timber measurers and merchants, and as supply- ing a real want in the trade.”—Building News. Baching-Case Mahers, Tables for. PACKING-CASE TABLES; showing the number of Super- ficial Feet in Boxes or Packing-Cases, from six inches square and upwards. By W. Richardson, Timber Broker. Third Edition. Obiong 4to, 3s. 6d. cl. “ Invaluable labour-saving tables.”—Ironmonger. “Will save much labour and calculation.”—Grocer. Superficial Measurement. THE TRADESMAN'S GUIDE TO SUPERFICIAL MEA- SUREMENT. Tables calculated from 1 to 200 inches in length, by 1 to 108 inches in breadth. For the use of Architects, Surveyors, Engineers, Timber Merchants, Builders, &c. By James Hawkings. Third Edition. Fcap., 3s. 6d. cloth. “ A useful collection of tables to facilitate rapid calculation of surfaces. The exact area of any surface of which the limits have been ascertained can be instantly determined. The book will be found of the greatest utility to all engaged in building ODerations.”—Scotsman. “ These tables will be found of great assistance to all who require to make calculations in super- ficial measurement .''—English Mechanic. Forestry. THE ELEMENTS OF FORESTRY. Designed to afford In- formation concerning the Planting and Care of Forest Trees for Ornament or Profit, with Suggestions upon the Creation and Care of Woodlands. By F. B. Hough. Large crown 8vo, 10s. cloth. Timber Importer’s Guide. THE TIMBER IMPORTER'S, TIMBER MERCHANT’S AND BUILDER'S STANDARD GUIDE. By Richard E. Grandy. Compris- ing an Analysis of Deal Standards, Home and Foreign, with Comparative Values and Tabular Arrangements for fixing Nett Landed Cost on Baltic and North American Deals, including all intermediate Expenses, Freight, Insurance, &c. &c. Together with copious Information for the Retailer and Builder. Third Edition, Revised. i2mo, 2s. cloth limp. “ Everything it pretends to be: built up gradually, it leads one from a forest to a treenail, and throws in, as a makeweight, a host of material concerning bricks, columns, cisterns, &c.”—English Mechanic.MARINE ENGINEERING, NAVIGATION, etc. 21 MARINE ENGINEERING, NAVIGATION, etc. Chain Cables. CHAIN CABLES AND CHAINS. Comprising Sizes and Curves of Links, Studs, &c., Iron for Cables and Chains, Chain Cable and Chain Making, Forming and Welding Links, Strength of Cables and Chains, Certificates for Cables, Marking Cables, Prices of Chain Cables and Chains, Historical Notes, Acts of Parliament, Statutory Tests, Charges for Testing, List of Manufacturers of Cables, &c. &c. By Thomas W. Traill, F.E.R.N., M. Inst. C.E., Engineer Surveyor in Chief, Board of Trade, Inspector of Chain Cable and Anchor Proving Establishments, and General Superin- tendent, Lloyd’s Committee on Proving Establishments. With numerous Tables, Illustrations and Lithographic Drawings, Folio, £2 2S. cloth, bevelled boards. “It contains a vast amount of valuable information. Nothing seems to be wanting to make it a complete and standard work of reference on the subject.”—Nautical Magazine. Marine Engineering. MARINE ENGINES AND STEAM VESSELS (A Treatise on). By Robert Murray, C.E. Eighth Edition, thoroughly Revised, with considerable Additions by the Author and by George Carlisle, C.E., Senior Surveyor to the Board of Trade at Liverpool. i2mo, 5s, cloth boards. “Well adapted to give the young steamship engineer or marine engine and boiler maker a general introduction into his practical work.”—Mechanical World. “We feel sure that this thoroughly revised edition will continue to be as popular in the future as it has been in the past, as, for its size, it contains more useful information than any similar treatise. ’ ’ —Industries. The information given is both sound and sensible, and well qualified to direct young sea- going hands on the straight road to the extra chief’s cert ficate. Most useful to survejors, inspectors, draughtsmen, and all young engineers who take an interest in their profession.”— Glasgow Herald. “An indispensable manual for the student of marine engineering.”—Liverpool Mercury. Bocket-Book for N aval Architects and Shipbuilders. THE NAVAL ARCHITECT'S AND SHIPBUILDER’S POCKET-BOOK of Formula, Rules, and Tables,and MARINE ENGINEER'S AND SURVEYOR’S Handy Book of Reference. By Clement Mackrow, Member of the Institution of Naval Architects, Naval Draughtsman. Fourth Edition, Revised. With numerous Diagrams, &c. Fcap., 12s. 6d. strongly bound in leather. “ Will t>e found to contain the most useful tables and formulae required by shipbuilders, carefully collected from the best authorities, and put together in a popular and simple form.”—Engineer. “ The professional shipbuilder has now, in a convenient and accessible form, reliable data for solving many of the numerous problems that present themselves in the course of his work.”—Iron. “There is scarcely a subject on which a naval architect or shipbuilder can require to refresh his memory which will not be found within the covers of Mr. Mackrow’s book ."—English Mechanic. Bocket-Book for Marine Engineers. A POCKET-BOOK OF USEFUL TABLES AND FOR- MULAE FOR MARINE ENGINEERS. By Frank Proctor, A.I.N.A. Third Edition. Royal 32010, leather, gilt edges, with strap, 4s. “ We recommend it to our readers as going far to supply a long-felt want.”—Naval Science. “ A most useful companion to all marine engineers.”—United Service Gazette. Introduction to Marine Engineering. ELEMENTARY ENGINEERING : A Manual for Young Marine Engineers and Apprentices. In the Form of Questions and Answers on Metals, Alloys, Strength of Materials, Construction and Management of Marine Engines and Boilers, Geometry, &c. &c. With an Appendix of Useful Tables. By John Sherren Brewer, Government Marine Surveyor, Hong- kong. Small crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ Contains much valuable information for the class for whom it is intended, especially in the chapters on the management of boilers and eng nes.”—Nautical Magazine. *• A useful introduction to the more elaborate text books.”—Scotsman. “ To a student who has the requisite desire, and resolve to attain a thorough knowledge, Mr. Brewer offers decidedly useful help.”—Athenceum. Navigation. PRACTICAL NAVIGATION. Consisting of The Sailor’s Sea-Book, by James Greenwood and W. H. Rosser ; together with the requisite Mathematical and Nautical Tables for the Working of the Problems, by Henry Law, C.E., and Professor J. R. Young. Illustrated. i2mo, 7s. ■st-ongly half-bound.22 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. MINING AND METALLURGY. Metalliferous Mining in the United Kingdom, BRITISH MINING : A Treatise on the History .Discovery, Practical Development, and Future Prospects of Metalliferous Mines in the United King- dom. By Robert Hunt, F.R.S., Keeper of Mining Records; Editor o3 “ Ure’s Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures, and Mines,” &c. Upwards of 950 pp., with 230 Illustrations. Second Edition, Revised. Super-royal 8vo? £2 25. cloth. “One of the most valuable works of reference of modern times. Mr. Hunt, as keeper of mining records of the United Kingdom, has had opportunities for such a task not enjoyed by anyone else, and has evidently made the most of them. . . . The language and style adopted are good, and the treatment of the various subjects laborious, conscientious, and scientific.”—Engineering. “The book is, in fact, a treasure-house of statistical information on mining subjects, and we know of no other work embodying so great a mass of matter of this kind. Were this the only merit of Mr. Hunt's volume, it would be sufficient to render it indispensable in this library 03 everyone interested in the development of the mining and metallurgical industries of this country.’ —Athenceum. “A mass of information not elsewhere available, and of the greatest value to those who may be interested in our great mineral industries.”—Engineer. “A sound, business-like collection of interesting facts. . . . The amount of information Mr. Hunt has brought together is enormous. . . . The volume appears likely to convey more Instruction upon the subject than any work hitherto published.”—Mining Journal. Colliery Management, THE COLLIERY MANAGER'S HANDBOOK: A Compre- hensive Treatise on the Laying-out and Working of Collieries, Designed as a Book of Reference for Colliery Managers, and for the Use of Coal-Mining Students preparing for First-class Certificates. By Caleb Pamely, Mining Engineer and Surveyor; Member of the North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers; and Member of the South Wales Ins’i- tute of Mining Engineers. With nearly 500 Plans, Diagrams, and othes Illustrations. Medium 8vo, about Coo pages. Price £1 5s. strongly bound. [Just published, tfnal ctYkfl TwfiM THE COAL AND IRON INDUSTRIES OF THE UNITED KINGDOM. Comprising a Description of the Coal Fields, and of the- Principal Seams of Coal, with Returns of their Produce and its Distribu- tion, and Analyses of Special Varieties. Also an Account of the occurrence of Iron Ores in Veins or Seams; Analyses of each Variety; and a History of the Rise and Progress of Pig Iron Manufacture. By Richard Meade, Assistant Keeper of Mining Records. With Maps. 8vo, £1 8s. cloth. “The book is one which must find a place on the shelves of all interested in coal and iron production, and in the iron, steel, and other metallurgical industries.”—Engineer. “ Of this book we may unreservedly say that it is the best of its class which we have ever mei, . . A book of reference which no one engaged in the iron or coal trades should omit from has library.”—Iron and Coal Trades Review. Prospecting for Gold and other Metals, THE PROSPECTOR'S HANDBOOK: A Guide for the Pro- spector and Traveller in Search of Metal-Bearing or other Valuable Minerals, By J. W. Anderson, M.A. (Camb.), F.R.G.S., Author of “Fiji and New Caledonia.” Fifth Edition, thoroughly Revised and Enlarged. Small crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “Will supply a much felt want, especially among Colonists, in whose way are so often thrown many mineralogical specimens the value of which it is difficult to determine.”—Engineer. “How to find commercial minerals, and how to identify them when they are tound, are the leading points to which attention is directed. The author has managed to pack as much practica3 detail into his pages as would supply material for a book three times its sizz."—Mining Journal, Mining Notes and Formulae. NOTES AND FORMULAE FOR MINING STUDENTS. By John Herman Merivale, M.A., Certificated Colliery Manager, Professor of Mining in the Durham College of Science, Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “ Invaluable to anyone who is working up for an examination on mining subjects.”— Coal and Iron Trades Review. “ The author has done his work in an exceedingly creditable manner, and has produced a book that will be of service to students, and those who are practically engaged in mining operations.”— Engineer. “ A vast amount of technical matter of the utmost value to mining engineers, and of consider- able interest to students.”—Schoolmaster.23 MINING AND METALLURGY. Explosives. -4 HANDBOOK ON MODERN EXPLOSIVES. Being a Practical Treatise on the Manufacture and Application of Dynamite, Gun- Cotton, Nitro-Glycerine and other Explosive Compounds. Including the Manufacture of Collodion-Cotton. By M. Eissler, Mining Engineer and Metallurgical Chemist, Author of “ The Metallurgy of Gold,” &c. With about 100 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d. cloth. “Useful not only to the miner, but also to officers of both services to whom blasting and the use of explosives generally may at any time become a necessary auxiliary. ”—Nature. “ A veritable mine of information on the subject of explosives employed for military, mining ar.d blasting purposes.”—Army and Navy Gazette. “ The book is clearly written. Taken as a whole, we consider it an excellent little book av-d one that should be found of great service to miners and others who are engaged in work requiring the use of explosives.’’—Atheneeum. Gold, Metallurgy of. THE METALLURGY OF GOLD : A Practical Treatise on the Metallurgical Treatment of Gold-bearing Ores. Including the Process( s of Concentration and Chlorination, and the Assaying, Melting and Refining of Gold. By M. Eissler, Mining Engineer and Metallurgical Chemist, formerly Assistant Assayer of the U. S. Mint, San Francisco. Third Edition, Revised and greatly Enlarged. With 187 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “ This book thoroughly deserves its title of a ‘ Practical Treatise.’ The -whole process of gold milling, from the breaking of the quartz to the assay of the bullion, is described in clear and orderly narrative and with much, but not too much, fulness of detail.’’—Saturday Review. “ The work is a storehouse of information and valuable data, and we strongly recommend it to all professional men engaged in the gold-mining industry.”—Mining Journal Silver, Metallurgy of. THE METALLURGY OF SILVER : A Practical Treatise on the Amalgamation, Roasting and Lixiviation of Silver Ores, Including the Assaying, Melting and Refining of Silver Bullion. By M. Eissler, Author of “The Metallurgy of Gold.’* Second Edition, Enlarged. With 150' Illus- trations. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “ A practical treatise, and a technical work which we are convinced will supply a long-felt want amongst practical men, and at the same time be of value to students and others indirectly connected with tne industries.’’—Milling Journal. “ From first to last the book is thoroughly sound and reliable.”—Colliery Guardian. “For chemists, practical miners, assayers and investors alike, we do not know of any work on the subject so handy and yet so comprehensive.”—Glasgow Herald. Silver-Eead, Metallurgy of. THE METALLURGY OF ARGENTIFEROUS LEAD: A Practical Treatise on the Smelting of Silver-Lead Ores and the Refining of Lead Bullion. Including Reports on various Smelting Establishments and Descriptions of Modern Furnaces and Plants in Europe and America. By M. Eissler, M.E., Author of “The Metallurgy of Gold,” &c. Crown 8vo. 400 pp., with numerous Illustrations, 12s. 6d. cloth. [jlust published. Metalliferous Minerals and Mining. TREATISE ON METALLIFEROUS MINERALS AND MINING. By D. C. Davies, F.G.S., Mining Engineer, &c., Author of “A Treatise on Slate and Slate Quarrying.” Illustrated with numerous Wood Engravings. Fourth Edition, carefully Revised. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “Neither the practical miner nor the general reader interested in mines can have a better book for his companion and his guide.”—Mining Journal. [Mining World. “We are doing our readers a service in calling their attention to this valuable work.”— “Asa history of the present state of mining throughout the world this book has a real value, and it supplies an actual want.”—Atheneeum. Earthy Minerals and Mining. A TREATISE ON EARTHY S- OTHER MINERALS AND MINING. By D. C. Davies, F.G.S. Uniform with, and forming a Com- panion Volume to, the same Author’s “ Metalliferous Minerals and Mining.” With 76 Wood Engravings. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “ We do not remember to have met with any English work on mining matters that contains the same amount of information packed in equally convenient form .’’—Academy. “We should be inclined to rank it as among the very best of the handy technical and trades manuals which have recently appeared.”—British Quarterly Review.CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. 24 Mineral Surveying and Valuing. THE MINERAL SURVEYOR AND VALUER'S COMPLETE G UIDE, comprising a Treatise on Improved Mining Surveying and the Valua- tion of Mining Properties, with New Traverse Tables. By Wm. Lintern, Mining and Civil Engineer. Third Edition, with an Appendix on “ Magnetic and Angular Surveying,” with Records of the Peculiarities of Needle Dis- tuBbances. With Four Plates of Diagrams, Plans, &c. i2mo, 4s. cloth. “ Mr. Lintern’s book forms a valuable and thoroughly trustworthy guide.”—Iron and Coal Trades Review. “ This new edition must be of the highest value to colliery surveyors, proprietors and mana- gers.”—Colliery Guardian. Asbestos and its Uses. ASBESTOS: Its Properties, Occurrence and Uses. With some Account of the Mines of Italy and Canada. By Robert H. Jones. With Eight Collotype Plates and other Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “ An interesting and invaluable work.”—Colliery Guardian. “ We counsel our readers to get this exceedingly interesting work for themselves ; they will find^in ft much that is suggestive, and a great deal that is of immediate and practical usefulness.”— “ A valuable addition to the architect’s and engineer’s library.”— Building News. Underground Tumping Machinery. MINE DRAINAGE. Being a Complete and Practical Treatise on Direct-Acting Underground Steam Pumping Machinery, with a Descrip- tion of a large number of the best known Engines, their General Utility and the Special Sphere of their Action, the Mode of their Application, and their merits compared with other forms of Pumping Machinery. By Stephen Michell. 8vo, 15s. cloth. “Will be highly esteemed by colliery owners and lessees, mining engineers, and students generally who require to be acquainted with the best means of securing the drainage of mines. It Is a most valuable work, and stands almost alone in the literature of steam pumping machinery.”— Colliery Gteardian. “ Much valuable information is given, so that the book is thoroughly worthy of an extensive circulation amongst practical men and purchasers of machinery.”—Mining 'Journal. Mining Tools. A MANUAL OF MINING TOOLS. For the Use of Mine Managers, Agents, Students, &c. By William Morgans, Lecturer on Prac- tical Mining at the Bristol School of Mines. i2mo, 2s. 6d. cloth limp. ATLAS OF ENGRAVINGS to Illustrate the above, contain- ing 235 Illustrations of Mining Tools, drawn to scale. 4to, 4s. 6d. cloth. “ Students in the science of mining, and overmen, captains, managers, and viewers may gain practical knowledge and useful hints by the study of Mr. Morgans’ manual.”—Colliery Guardian. “A valuable work, which will tend materially to improve our mining literature.”—Mining Journal. Coal Mining» COAL AND COAL MINING: A Rudimentary Treatise on. By the late Sir Warington W. Smyth, M.A., F.R.S., &c., Chief Inspector of the Mines of the Crown. Seventh Edition, Revised and Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations. i2mo, 4s. cloth boards. “As an outline is given of every known coal-field in this and other countries, as well as of the principal methods of working, the book will doubtless interest a very large number of readers."— Mining Journal. Subterraneous Surveying. SUBTERRANEOUS SURVEYING, Elementary and Practical Treatise on, with and without the Magnetic Needle. By Thomas Fenwick, Surveyor of Mines, and Thomas Baker, C.E. Illust. izmo, 3s. cloth boards. Granite Quarrying. GRANITES AND OUR GRANITE INDUSTRIES. By George F. Harris, F.G.S., Membre de la Societe Beige de Geologie, Lec- turer on Economic Geology at the Birkbeck Institution, &c. With Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “ A clearly and well-written manual for persons engaged or interested in the granite industry.’ — Scotsman. “ An interesting work, which will be deservedly esteemed.”—Colliery Guardian. “ An exceedingly interesting and valuable monograph on a subject which has hitherto received unaccountably little attention in the shape of systematic literary treatment.”—Scottish Leader.ELECTRICITY, ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, etc. 25 ELECTRICITY ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, etc. Electrical Engineering. THE ELECTRICAL ENGINEER’S POCKET-BOOK OF MODERN RULES, FORMULAE, TABLES AND DATA. By H. R. Kempe, M.Inst.E.E., A.M.Inst C.E., Technical Officer Postal Telegraphs, Author of “A Handbook of Electrical Testing,” &c. With numerous Illus- trations, royal 321110, oblong, 5s. leather. [Just published. '1 There is very little in the shape of formulae or data which the electrician is likely to want in a hurry which cannot be found in its pages.”—Practical Engineer. “A very useful book of reference for daily use in practical electrical engineering and its various applications to the industries of the present day.”—Iron. “ It is the best book of its kind.”—Electrical Engineer. “The Electrical Engineer's Pocket-Book is a good one.”—Electrician. ' “ Strongly recommended to those engaged in tne various electrical industries.”—Electrical Review, Electric Lighting. ELECTRIC LIGHT FITTING : A Handbook for Working Electrical Engineers, embodying Practical Notes on Installation Manage- ment. By John W. Urquhart, Electrician, Author of “ Electric Light,” &c. With numerous Illustrations, crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. [Just published. “ This volume deals with what may be termed the mechanics of electric lighting, and is addressed to men who are already engaged in the work or are training for it. The work traverses a great deal of ground, and may be read as a sequel to the same author’s useful work on ‘ Electric Light.’ ”—Electrician. “ This is an attempt to state in the simplest language the precautions which should be adopted In installing the electric light, and to give information,for the guidance of those who have to run the plant when installed. The book is well worth the perusal of the workmen for whom it is written.”—Electrical Review. ‘ Eminently practical and useful. . . . Ought to be in the hands of everyone in charge of an electric light plant.”—Electrical E.ngineer. “A really capital book, which we have no hesitation in recommending to the notice of working electricians and electrical engineers.”—Mechanical World. Electric Light. ELECTRIC LIGHT : Its Production and Use. Embodying Plain Directions for the Treatment cf Dynamo-Electric Machines, Batteries, Accumulators, and Electric Lamps. By J. W. Urquhart, C.E., Author of ** Electric Light Fitting,” &c. Fourth Edition, Revised, with Large Additions and 145 Illustrations. .Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “The book is by far the best that we have yet met with on the subject.”—Athenceum. “It is the only work at present available which gives, in language intelligible for the most part to the ordinary reader, a general but concise history of the means which have been adopted up to the present time in producing the electric light.”—Metropolitan. ‘ * The book contains a general account of the means adopted in producing the electric light, not only as obtained from voltaic or galvanic batteries, but treats at length of the dynamo-electric machine in several of its forms ."—Colliery Guardian. Construction of Dynamos. DYNAMO CONSTRUCTION ; A Practical Handbook for the Use of Engineer Constructors and Electricians in Charge. With Examples of leading English, American and Continental Dynamos and Motors. By J. W. Urquhart, Author of “ Electric Light,” &c. . Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. ‘ The author has produced a book for which a demand has long existed. The subject is treated in a thoroughly practical manner.' '—Mecha->iical World. Dynamic Electricitij and JSIagnetism. THE ELEMENTS OF DYNAMIC ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM, By Philip Atkinson, A.M., Ph.D. Crown 8vo. 400 pp. With 120 Illustrations. 10s. 6d?cloth. [Jtist published. Text Book of Electricity. THE STUDENT’S TEXT-BOOK OF ELECTRICITY. By Henry M. Noad, Ph.D., F.R.S., F.C.S. New Edition, carefully Revised. With an Introduction and Additional Chapters, by W. H. Preece, M.I.C.E., Vice-President of the Society of Telegraph Engineers, &c. With 470 Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 12J. 6d. cloth. ‘We can recommend Dr. Noad’s book for clear style, great range of subject, a good index ■d a plethora of woodcuts. Such collections as the present are indispensable.”—Athenceum. “ An admirable text book for every student — beginner or advanced — of electricity.”— Engineering.26 CROSBY LOCKWOOD 6* SON’S CATALOGUE. Electric Lighting. THE ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF ELECTRIC LIGHT- ING. By Alan A. Campbell Swinton, Associate I.E.E. Second Edition, Enlarged and Revised. With 16 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. cloth. 1 ‘ Anyone who desires a short and thoroughly clear exposition of the elementary principles ol electric-lighting cannot do better than read this little work.”—Bradford Observer. Electricity. A MANUAL OF ELECTRICITY: Including Galvanism, Mag. netism, Dia-Magnetism, Electro-Dynamics, Magno-Electricity, and the Electric Telegraph. By Henry M. Noad, Ph.D., F.R.S., F.C.S. Fourth Edition. With soo Woodcuts. 8vo, £i 4s. cloth. “ It is worthy of a place in the library of every public institution.”—Mining Journal. JDynam o Construction. HOW TO MAKE A DYNAMO : A Practical Treatise for Amateurs. Containing numerous Illustrations and Detailed Instructions for Construct- ing a Small Dynamo, to Produce the Electric Light. By Alfred Crofts. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “The instructions given in this unpretentious little book are sufficiently clear and explicit to enable any amateur mechanic possessed of average skill and the usual tools to be found in an amateur's workshop, to build a practical dynamo machine.”—Electrician. NATURAL SCIENCE, etc. Pneumatics and Acoustics. PNEUMATICS: including Acoustics and the Phenomena of Wind Currents, for the Use of Beginners. By Charles Tomlinson, F.R.S. F.C.S., &c. Fourth Edition, Enlarged. i2mo, is. 6d. cloth. ‘‘ Beginners in the study of this important application of science could not have a better manual. ” —Scotsman. “ A valuable and suitable text-book for students of Acoustics and the Pheno- mena of Wind Currents.”—Schoolmaster. Conchology. A MANUAL OF THE MOLLUSC A : Being a Treatise on Recent and Fossil Shells. By S. P. Woodward, A.L.S., F.G.S., late Assistant Palaeontologist in the British Museum. With an Appendix on Recent and Fossil Conchological Discoveries, by Ralph Tate, A.L.S., F.G.S. Illustrated by A. N. Waterhouse and Joseph Wilson Lowry. With 23 Plates and upwards of 300 Woodcuts. Reprint of Fourth Ed., 1880. Cr. 8vo, 7s. 6d. cl. “ A most valuable storehouse of conchological and geological information."—Science Gossip. Geology. RUDIMENTARY TREATISE ON GEOLOGY, PHYSICAL AND HISTORICAL. Consisting of “ Physical Geology,” which sets forth the leading Principles of the Science; and “ Historical Geology,” which treats of the Mineral and Organic Conditions of the Earth at each successive epoch, especial reference being made to the British Series of Rocks. By Ralph Tate, A.L.S., F.G.S., &c. With 250 Illustrations. i2mo, 5s. cloth. “ The fulness of the matter has elevated the book into a manual. Its information is exhaustive and well arranged.”—School Board Chronicle. Geology and Genesis. THE TWIN RECORDS OF CREATION; or, Geology and Genesis: their Perfect Harmony and Wonderful Concord. By George W. Victor le Vaux. Numerous Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ A valuable contribution to the evidences of Revelation, and disposes very conclusively of the arguments of those who would set God's Works against God’s Word.' —The Rock, The Constellations. STAR GROUPS: A Student’s Guide to the Constellations. By J. Ellard Gore, F.R.A.S., M.R.I.A., &c., Author of ‘‘The Scenery of the Heavens.” With 30 Maps. Small 4to, 5s. cloth, silvered. [Just published. Astronomy. ASTRONOMY. By the late Rev. Robert Main, M.A., F.R.S., formerly Radcliffe Observer at Oxford. Third Edition, Revised and Cor- rected to the present time, by W. T. Lynn, B.A., F.R.A.S. nmo, 2s. cloth. “A sound and simple treatise, very carefully edited, and a capital book for beginners.”— Knowledge. [tional Times. “ Accurately brought down to the requirements of the present time by Mr. LynnT-Educa-NATURAL SCIENCE, etc. 27 DR. LARDNER’S COURSE OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. THE HANDBOOK OF MECHANICS. Enlarged and almost re- written by Benjamin Loewy, F.R.A.S. With 378 Illustrations. Post 8vo, 6s. cloth. "The perspicuity of the original has been retained, and chapters which had become obsolete have been replaced by others of more modern character. The explanations throughout are studiously popular, and care has been taken to show the application of the various branches of physics to the industrial arts, and to the practical business of life.” —Mining Journal. “Mr. Loewy has carefully revised the book, and brought it up to modern requirements.”— Nature. “Natural philosophy has had few exponents more able or better skilled in the art of popu- larising the subject than Dr. Lardner ; and Mr. Loewy is doing good service in fitting this treatise, and the others of the series, for use at the present time.”—Scotsman. THE HANDBOOK OF HYDROSTATICS AND PNEUMATICS. New Edition, Revised and Enlarged, by Benjamin Loewy, F.R.A.S. With 236 Illustrations. Post 8vo, 5s. cloth. “For those ‘who desire to attain an accurate knowledge of physical science without the pro- found methods of mathematical investigation, ’ this work is not merely intended, but well adapted.” —Chemical News. “The volume before us has been carefully edited, augmented to nearly twice the bulk of the former edition, and all the most recent matter has been added. . . . It is a valuable text-book.” —Nature. “Candidates for pass examinations will find it, we think, specially suited to their requirements.” English Mechanic. THE HANDBOOK OF HEAT. Edited and almost entirely re- written by Benjamin Loewy, F.R.A.S., &c. 117 Illustrations. Post 8vo, 6s. cloth. “ The style is always clear and precise, and conveys instruction without leaving any cloudiness or lurking doubts behind.”—Engineering. “A most exhaustive book on the subject on which it treats, and is so arranged that it can be understood by all who desire to attain an accurate knowledge of physical science Mr. Loewy has included all the latest discoveries in the varied laws and effects of heat.”—Standard. “A compete and handy text-book for the use of students and general readers.”—English Mechanic. THE HANDBOOK OF OPTICS. By Dionysius Lardner,D.C.L., formerly Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in University College, London. New Edition. Edited by T. Olver Harding, B.A. Lond., of University College, London. With 298 Illustrations. Small 8vo, 448 pages, 5s. cloth. “Written by one of the ablest English scientific writers, beautifully and elaborately illustrated.” Mechanic’s Magazine. THE HANDBOOK OF ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND ACOUSTICS. By Dr. Lardner. Ninth Thousand. Edit, by George Carey Foster, B.A., F.C.S. With 400 Illustrations. Small 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ The book could not have been entrusted to anyone better calculated to preserve the terse and lucid style of Lardner, while correcting his errors and bringing up his work to the present state of scientific knowledge.”—Popular Science Review. THE HANDBOOK OF ASTRONOMY. Forming a Companion to the “ Handbook of Natural Philosophy.’’ By Dionysius Lardner, D.C.L., formerly Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in University College, London. Fourth Edition. Revised and Edited by Edwin Dunkin, F.R.A.S., Royal Observatory, Greenwich. With 38 Plates and upwards of 100 Woodcuts. In One Vol., small 8vo, 550 pages, 9s. 6d. cloth. “ Probably no other book contains the same amount of information in so compendious and well- arranged a form—certainly none at the price at which this is offered to the public.”—Athenceum. “We can do no other than pronounce this work a most valuable manual of astronomy, and we strongly recommend it to all who wish to acquire a general—but at the same time correct—acquaint- ance with this sublime science.”—Quarterly Journal 0/ Science. “One of the most deservedly popular books on the subject . . . We would recommend not only the student of the elementary principles of the science, but he who aims at mastering the higher and mathematical branches of astronomy, not to be without this work beside him ."—Practi- cal Magazine. Dr, JLurdner’s Electric Telegraph, THE ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH. By Dr. Lardner. Re- vised and Re-written by E. B. Bright, F.R.A.S. 140 Illustrations. Small 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. ‘One of the most readable books extant on the Electric Telegraph P—English Mechanic.28 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. DR. LARDNER’S MUSEUM OF SCIENCE AND ART. THE MUSEUM OF SCIENCE AND ART. Edited by Dionysius Lardner, D.C.L., formerly Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in University College, London. With upwards of 1,200 Engrav- ings on Wood. In 6 Double Volumes, £1 is., in a new and elegant cloth bind- ing ; or handsomely bound in half-morocco, 31s. 6d. *** Opinions of the Press. “This series, besides affording popular but sound instruction on scientific subjects, with which the humblest man in the country ought to be acquainted, also undertakes that teaching of ‘ Com- mon Things ’ which every well-wisher of his kind is anxious to promote. Many thousand copies of this serviceable publication have been printed, in the belief and hope that the desire for instruction and improvement widely prevails ; and we have no fear that such enlightened faith will meet with disappointment.”—Times. “A cheap and interesting publication, alike informing and attractive. The papers combine subjects of importance and great scientific knowledge, considerable inductive powers, and a popular style of treatment.”—Spectator. “The ‘ Museum of Science and Art’ is the most valuable contribution that has ever been made to the Scientific Instruction of every class of society.”—Sir DAVID BREWSTER, in the North British Review. “ Whether we consider the liberality and beauty of the illustrations, the charm of the writing, or the durable interest of the matter, we must express our belief that there is hardly to be found among the new books one that would be welcomed by people of so many ages and classes as a valuable present.’’—Examiner. *** Separate books formed from the above, suitable for Workmen's Libraries, Science Classes, etc. Common Things Explained. Containing Air, Earth, Fire, Water, Time, Man, the Eye, Locomotion, Colour, Clocks and Watches, &c. 233 Illus- trations, cloth gilt, 5s. The Microscope. Containing Optical Images, Magnifying Glasses, Origin and Description of the Microscope, Microscopic Objects, the Solar Micro- scope, Microscopic Drawing and Engraving, &c. 147 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 25. Popular Geology. Containing Earthquakes and Volcanoes, the Crust of the Earth, &c. 201 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. Popular Physics. Containing Magnitude and Minuteness, the Atmo- sphere, Meteoric Stones, Popular Fallacies, Weather Prognostics, the Thermometer, the Barometer, Sound, &c. 85 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 25.6d. Steam and its Uses. Including the Steam Engine, the Locomotive, and Steam Navigation. 89 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 25. Popidar Astronomy. Containing How to observe the Heavens—The Earth, Sun, Moon, Planets, Light, Comets, Eclipses, Astronomical Influ- ences, &c. 182 Illustrations, 4s. 6d. The Bee and White Ants: Their Manners and Habits. With Illustra- tions of Animal Instinct and Intelligence. 135 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 25. The Electric Telegraph Popxdarized. To render intelligible to all who can Read, irrespective of any previous Scientific Acquirements, the various forms of Telegraphy in Actual Operation. 100 Illustrations, cloth gilt, is. 6d. Dr. Lardner’s School Handbooks. NATURAL PHILOSOPHY FOR SCHOOLS. By Dr. Lardner. 328 Illustrations. Sixth Edition. One Vol., 3s. 6d. cloth. “ A very convenient class-book for junior students in private schools. It is intended to convey, in clear and precise terms, general notions of all the principal divisions of Physical Science.”— British Quarterly Review. ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY FOR SCHOOLS. By Dr. Lardnef. With 190 Illustrations. Second Edition. One Vol., 3s. 6d. cloth. “Clearly written, well arranged, and excellently illustrated.”—Gardener's Chronicle.COUNTING-HOUSE WORK-TABLES, CALCULATORS, etc. 29 COUNTING-HOUSE WORK, TABLES, etc. Introduction to Business, LESSONS IN COMMERCE. By Professor R. Gambaro, of the Royal High Commercial School at Genoa. Edited and Revised by James Gault, Professor of Commerce and Commercial Law in King’s College, London. Crown 8vo, price about 3s. 6d. (in the press. Accounts for Manufacturers, FACTORY ACCOUNTS: Their Principles and Practice. A Handbook for Accountants and Manufacturers, with Appendices on the No- menclature of Machine Details; the Income Tax Acts; the Rating of Fac- tories; Fire and Boiler Insurance; the Factory and Workshop Acts, &c.» including also a Glossary of Terms and a large number of Specimen Rulings. By Emile Garcke and J. M. Fells. Third Edition. Demy 8vo, 250 pages, price 6s. strongly bound. “A very interesting description ofthe requirements of Factory Accounts. . . . the principle of assimilating the Factory Accounts to the general commercial books is one which we thoroughly agree with .’’—Accountants’ Journal. “There are few owners of Factories who would not derive great benefit from the perusal of this most admirable work.”—Local Government Chronicle. Foreign Commercial Correspondence, THE FOREIGN COMMERCIAL CORRESPONDENT: Being Aids to Commercial Correspondence in Five Languages—English, French, German, Italian and Spanish. By Conrad E. Baker. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. ' ‘ Whoever wishes to correspond in all the languages mentioned by Mr. Baker cannot do better than study this work, the materials of which are excellent and conveniently arranged.”—Athenczum> “A careful examination, has convinced us that it is unusually complete, well arranged and reliable. The book is a thoroughly good one.”—Schoolmaster. Intuitive Calculations, THE COMPENDIOUS CALCULATOR; or, Easy and Con- cise Methods of Performing the various Arithmetical Operations required in Commercial and Business Transactions, together with Useful Tables. By D. 0‘Gorman. Corrected by Professor J. R. Young. Twenty-seventh Ed., Revised by C. Norris. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth; or, 3s. 6d. half-bound. “ It would be difficult to exaggerate the usefulness of a book like this to everyone engaged in commerce or manufacturing industry.”—Knowledge. “ Supplies special and rapid methods for all kinds of calculations. Of great utility to persons engaged in any kind of commercial transactions.”—Scotsman. Modern Metrical TJnits and Systems, MODERN METROLOGY: A Manual of the Metrical Units and Systems of the Present Century. With an Appendix containing a proposed English System. By Lowis D’A. Jackson, A.M.Inst.C.E., Author of “Aid to Survey Practice,” &c. Large crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “The author has brought together much valuable and interesting information. . . . We cannot but recommend the work.”—Nature. “ For exhaustive tables of equivalent weights and measures of all sorts, and for clear demonstra- tions of the effects of the various systems that have been proposed or adopted, Mr. Jackson’s treatise is without a rival.”—Academy. The Metric System and the British Standards. A SERIES OF METRIC TABLES, in which the British Stand- ard Measures and Weights are compared with those of the Metric System at present in Use on the Continent. By C. H. Dowling, C.E. 8vo, ios. 6d. strongly bound. “Their accuracy has been certified by Professor Airy, the Astronomer-Royal.”—Builder. “ Mr. Dowling’s Tables are well put together as a ready-reckoner for the conversion of on® system into the other.”—Athenceum. Iron and Metal Trades9 Calculator, THE IRON AND METAL TRADES’ COMPANION. For expeditiously ascertaining the Value of any Goods bought or sold by Weight, from is. per cwt. to 112s. per cwt., and from one farthing per pound to one shilling per pound. Each Table extends from one pound to 100 tons. To which are appended Rules on Decimals, Square and Cube Root, Mensuration ot Superficies and Solids, &c.; also Tables of Weights of Materials, and other Useful Memoranda. ByTHOS. Downie. Strongly bound in leather, 396 pp., gs. “ A most useful set of tables. . . . Nothing like them before existed.”— Building-News. “ Although specially adapted to the iron and metal trades, the tables will be found useful in every other business in which merchandise is bought and sold by weight.”—Railway News.30 CROSBY LOCKWOOD 6- SON’S CATALOGUE. Calculator for Numbers and Weights Combined. THE NUMBER, WEIGHT AND FRACTIONAL CALCU- LATOR. Containing upwards of 250,000 Separate Calculations, showing at a glance the value at 422 different rates, ranging from Tl^th of a Penny to 20s. each, or per cwt., and £20 per ton, of any number of articles consecu- tively, from 1 to 470.—Any number of cwts., qrs., and lbs., from 1 cwt. to 470 cwts.—Any number of tons, cwts., qrs., and lbs., from x to 1,000 tons. By William Chadwick, Public Accountant. Third Edition, Revised and Im- proved. 8vo, price 18s., strongly bound for Office wear and tear. *** This work is specially adapted for the Apportionment of Mileage Charges for Railway Traffic. K3” This comprehensive and entirely unique and original Calculator is adapted for the use of Accountants and Auditors, Railway Companies, Canal Companies, Shippers, Shipping Agents, General Carriers, etc. Ironfounders, Brassfounders, Metal Merchants, Iron Manufacturers,Ironmongers, Engineers, Machinists, Boiler Makers, Millwrights, Roofing, Bridge and Girder Makers, Colliery Proprietors, etc. Timber Merchants, Builders, Contractors, Architects, Surveyors, Auctioneers Valuers, Brokers, Mill Owners and Manufacturers, Mill Furnishers, Merchants and General Wholesale Tradesmen. *** Opinions of the Press. “The book contains the answers to questions, and not simply a set of ingenious puzzle methods of arriving at results. It is as easy of reference for any answer or any number of answers as a dictionary, and the references are even more quickly made. For making up accounts or esti- mates, the book must prove invaluable to all who have any considerable quantity of calculations involving price and measure in any combination to do.”—Engineer. “ The most perfect work of the kind yet prepared.”—Glasgow Herald. Comprehensive Weight Calculator. THE WEIGHT CALCULATOR. Being a Series of Tables upon a New and Comprehensive Plan, exhibiting at One Reference the exact Value of any Weight from 1 lb. to 15 tons, at 300 Progressive Rates, from id. to 168s. per cwt., and containing 186,000 Direct Answers, which, with their Combinations, consisting of a single addition (mostly to be performed at sight), will afford an aggregate of 10,266,000 Answers; the whole being calcu- lated and designed to ensure correctness and promote despatch. By Henry Harben, Accountant. Fourth Edition, carefully Corrected. Royal 8vo, strongly half-bound, £1 5s. “ A practical and useful work of reference for men of business generally ; it is the best of the kind we have seen.’ —Ironmonger. “Of priceless value to business men. It is a necessary book in all mercantile offices.”—Shef- field Independent. Comprehensive Discount Guide. THE DISCOUNT GUIDE. Comprising several Series of Tables for the use of Merchants, Manufacturers, Ironmongers, and others, by which may be ascertained the exact Profit arising from any mode of using Discounts, either in the Purchase or Sale of Goods, and the method of either Altering a Rate of Discount or Advancing a Price, so as to produce, by one operation, a sum that will realise any required profit after allowing one or more Discounts: to which are added Tables of Profit or Advance from i| to 90 per cent., Tables of Discount from ij to g8f per cent., and Tables of Com- mission, &c., from to 10 per cent. By Henry Harben, Accountant, Author of “ The Weight Calculator.” New Edition, carefully Revised and Corrected. Demy 8vo, 544 pp. half-bound, £1 5s. “ A book sudi as this can only be appreciated by business men, to whom the saving of time means saving of money. We have the high authority of Professor J. R. Young that the tables throughout the work are constructed upon strictly accurate principles. The work is a mode of typographical clearness, and must prove of great value to merchants, manufacturers, and general traders.”—British Trade Journal. Iron Shipbuilders’ and Merchants’ Weight Tables. IRON-PLATE WEIGHT TABLES: For Iron Shipbuilders, Engineers and Iron Merchants. Containing the Calculated Weights of up- wards of 150,000 different sizes of Iron Plates, from 1 foot by 6 in. by £ in. to 10 feet by 5 feet by 1 in. Worked out on the basis of 40 lbs. to the square foot of Iron of 1 inch in thickness. Carefully compiled and thoroughly Re- vised by H. Burlinson and W. H. Simpson. Oblong 4to, 25s. half-bound. “This work will be found of great utility. The authors have had much practical experience of what is wanting in making estimates; and the use of the book will save much time in making elaborate calculations.’’— English Mechanic,INDUSTRIAL AND USEFUL ARTS. 3i INDUSTRIAL AND USEFUL ARTS. Soap-making, THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING: A Practical Handbook of the Manufacture of Hard and Soft Soaps, Toilet Soaps, etc. Including many New Processes, and a Chapter on the Recovery of Glycerine from Waste Leys. By Alexander Watt, Author oi “ Electro-Metallurgy Practically Treated,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. Fourth Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. “The work will prove very useful, not merely .to the technological student, but to the practical soap-boiler who wishes to understand the theory of his art.”—Chemical Nevus. “Mr. Watt’s book is a thoroughly practical treatise on an art which has almost no literature In our language. We congratulate the author on the success of his endeavour to fill a void in English technical literature.”—Nature. Paper Making. THE ART OF PAPER MAKING : A Practical Handbook of the Manufacture of Paper from Rags, Esparto, Straw and other Fibrous Materials, Including the Manufacture of Pulp from Wood Fibre, with a Description of the Machinery and Appliances used. To which are added Details of Processes for Recovering Soda from Waste Liquors. By Alexander Watt. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d. cloth. “ This book is succinct, lucid, thoroughly practical, and includes everything of interest to the modern paper maker. It is the latest, most practical and most complete work on the paper-making art before the British public.”— Paper Record. ‘ It may be regarded as the standard work on the subject. The book is full of valuable in- fo -mation. The ‘ Art of Paper-making,’ is in every respect a model of a text-book, either for a technical class or for the private student.”—Paper and Printing Trades Journal. “ Admirably adapted for general as well as ordinary technical reference, and as a handbook for students in technical education may be warmly commended.”—The Paper Maker's Monthly Journal. Leather Manufacture. THE ART OF LEATHER MANUFACTURE. Being a Practical Handbook, in which the Operations of Tanning, Currying, and Leather Dressing are fully Described, the Principles of Tanning Explained and many Recent Processes introduced. By Alexander Watt, Author of “ Soap-Making,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, gs. cloth. “A sound, comprehensive treatise on tanning and its accessories. This book is an eminently valuable production, which redounds to the credit of both author and publishers.”—Chemical Review. “This volume is technical without being tedious, comprehensive and complete without being prosy, and it bears on every page the impress of a master hand. We have never come across a better trade treatise, nor one that so thoroughly supplied an absolute want.”—Shoe and Leather Trades' Chronicle. Boot and Shoe Making. THE ART OF BOOT AND SHOE-MAKING. A Practical Handbook, including Measurement, Last-Fitting, Cutting-Out, Closing and Making, with a Description of the most approved Machinery employed. By John B. Leno, late Editor of St. Crispin, and The Boot and Shoe-Maker. With numerous Illustrations. Third Edition. i2mo, 2s. cloth limp. “This excellent treatise is by far the best work ever written on the subject. A new work, embracing all modern improvements, was much wanted. This want is now satisfied. The chapter on clicking, which shows now waste may be prevented, will save fifty times the price of the book.” —Scottish Leather Trader. Dentistry. MECHANICAL DENTISTRY : A Practical Treatise on the Construction of the various kinds of Artificial Dentures. Comprising also Use- ful Formulae, Tables and Receipts for Gold Plate, Clasps, Solders, &c. &c. By Charles Hunter. Third Edition, Revised. With upwards of 100 Wood Engravings. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ The work is very practical.”—Monthly Review of Dental Surgery. “Wo can strongly recommend Mr. Hunter’s treatise to all students preparing for the profession of dentistry, as well as to every mechanical dentist.”—Dublin Journal 0/ Medical Science. Wood Engraving. WOOD ENGRAVING: A Practical and Easy Introduction to the Study of the Art. By William Norman Brown. Second Edition. With numerous Illustrations. i2mo, is. 6d. cloth limp. “The book is clear and complete, and will be useful to anyone wanting to understand the first elements of the beautiful art of wood engraving.”—Gnathic.32 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. HANDYBOOKS FOR HANDICRAFTS. By PAUL N. HASLUCK. Metal Turning. THE METAL TURNER’S HANDYBOOK. A Practical Manual for Workers at the Foot-Lathe: Embracing Information on the Tools, Appliances and Processes employed in Metal Turning. By Paul N. Has- luck, Author of “Lathe-Work.” With upwards of One Hundred Illustra- tions. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ Clearly and concisely written, excellent in every -my."—Mechanical World. Wood Turning. THE WOOD TURNER’S HANDYBOOK. A Practical Manual for Workers at the Lathe: Embracing Information on the Tools, Appliances and Processes Employed in Wood Turning. By Paul N. Hasluck. With upwards of One Hundred Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “We recommend the book to young turners and amateurs. A multitude of workmen have hitherto sought in vain for a manual of this special industry.”—Mechanical World. WOOD AND METAL TURNING. By P. N. Hasluck. (Being the Two preceding Vols. bound together.) 300 pp , with upwards of 200 Illustrations, crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. Watch Repairing. THE WATCH JOBBER'S HANDYBOOK. A Practical Manual on Cleaning, Repairing and Adjusting. Embracing Information on the Tools, Materials, Appliances and Processes Employed in Watchwork. By Paul N. Hasluck. With upwards of One Hundred Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, as. cloth, “AH young persons connected with the trade should acquire and study this excellent, and at the same time, inexpensive work.”—Glerkenwell Cnronicle. Clock Repairing. THE CLOCK JOBBER'S HANDYBOOK: A Practical Manual on Cleaning, Repairing and Adjusting. Embracing Information on the Tools, Materials, Appliances and Processes Employed in Clockwork. By Paul N. Hasluck. With upwards of 100 Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ Of inestimable service to those commencing the trade.”—Coventry Standard. WATCH AND CLOCK JOBBING. By P. N. Hasluck. (Being the Two preceding Vols. bound together.) 320 pp., with upwards of 200 Illustrations, crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. Pattern Making. THE PATTERN MAKER'S HANDYBOOK. A Practical Manual, embracing Information on the Tools, Materials and Appliances em- ployed in Constructing Patterns for Founders. By Paul N. Hasluck. With One Hundred Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “This handy volume contains'sound information of considerable value to students and artificers.”—Hardware Trades Journal. Mechanical Manipulation. THE MECHANIC’S WORKSHOP HANDYBOOK. A Practical Manual on Mechanical Manipulation. Embracing Information on various Handicraft Processes, with Useful Notes and Miscellaneous Memoranda. By Paul N. Hasluck. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ It is a book which should be found in every workshop, as it is one which will be continually referred to for a very great amount of standard information.”—Saturday Review. Model Engineering. THE MODEL ENGINEER'S HANDYBOOK: A Practical Manual on Model Steam Engines. Embracing Information on the Tools, Materials and Processes Employed in their Construction. By Paul N. Hasluck. With upwards of 100 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ By carefully going through the work, amateurs may pick up an excellent notion of the con- struction of full-sized steam engines ."—Telegraphic Journal. Cabinet Making. THE CABINET WORKER’S HANDYBOOK: A Practical Manual, embracing Information on the Tools, Materials, Appliances and Processes employed in Cabinet Work. By Paul N. Hasluck, Author of “ Lathe Work,” &c. With upwards of 100 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. [Glasgow Herald. “ Thoroughly practical throughout. The amateur worker in wood will find it most useful.”—INDUSTRIAL AND USEFUL ARTS. 33 Electrolysis of Gold, Silver, Copper, etc. ELECTRO-DEPOSITION : A Practical Treatise on the Electrolysis of Gold, Silver, Copper, Nickel, and other Metals and Alloys. With descrip- tions of Voltaic Batteries, Magneto and Dynamo-Electric Machines, Ther- mopiles, and of the Materials and Processes used in every Department of the Art, and several Chapters on Electro-Metallurgy. By Alexander Watt. Third Edition, Revised and Corrected. Crown 8vo, gs. cloth. “Eminently a book for the practical worker in electro-deposition. It contains practical descriptions of methods, processes and materials as actually pursued and used in the workshop.” —Engineer. Electro-Metallurgy. ELECTRO-METALLURGY; Practically Treated. By Alexander Watt, Author of “ Electro-Deposition,” &c. Ninth Edition, Enlarged and Revised, with Additional Illustrations, and including the most recent Processes. i2mo, 4s. cloth boards. “From this book both amateur and artisan may learn everything necessary for the successfu prosecution of electroplating.”—Iron. Electroplating. ELECTROPLATING: A Practical Handbook on the Deposi- tion of Copper, Silver, Nickel, Gold, Aluminium, Brass, Platinum, &c. &c. With Descriptions of the Chemicals, Materials, Batteries and Dynamo Machines used in the Art. By J. W. Urquhart, C.E. Second Edition, with Additions. Numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ An excellent practical manual.”—Engineering, “ An excellent work, giving the newest information.”— Horological Journal. Electrotyping. ELECTROTYPING : The Reproduction and Multiplication of Print- ing Surfaces and Works of Art by the Electro-deposition of Metals. By J. W. Urquhart, C.E. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ The book is thoroughly practical. The reader is, therefore, conducted through the leading aws of electricity, then through the metals used by electrotypers, the apparatus, and the depositing processes, up to the final preparation of the work.”—Art Journal. Horology. A TREATISE ON MODERN HOROLOGY, in Theory and Prac- tice. Translated from the French of Claudius Saunier, by Julien Trip- plin, F.R.A.S., and Edward Rigg, M.A., Assayer in the Royal Mint. With 78 Woodcuts and 22 Coloured Plates. Second Edition. Royal 8vo, £2 2s. cloth ; £2 10s. half-calf. “ There is no horological work in the English language at all to be compared to this produc- tion of M. Saunier’s for clearness and completeness. It is alike good as a guide for the student and as a reference for the experienced horologist and skilled workman.”—Horological Journal. “ The latest, the most complete, and the most reliable of those literary productions to which continental watchmakers are indebted for the mechanical superiority over their English brethren —in fact, the Book of Books, is M. Saunier’s ‘ Treatise. Watch-maker, Jeweller and Silversmith. Watchmaking. THE WATCHMAKER'S HANDBOOK. A Workshop Com- panion for those engaged in Watchmaking and the Allied Mechanical Arts. From the French of Claudius Saunier. Enlarged by Julien Tripplin, F.R.A.S., and Edward Rigg, M.A., Assayer in the Royal Mint. Woodcuts and Copper Plates. Third Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 9s. cloth. “ Each part is truly a treatise in itself. The arrangement is good and the language is clear and concise. It is an admirable guide for the young watchmaker.”—Engineering. “It is impossible to speak too highly of its excellence. It fulfils every requirement in a hand- book intended for the use of a workman ."—Watch and Clockmaker. “ This book contains an immense number of practical details bearing on the daily occupation of a watchmaker. Watchmaker and Metalworker (Chicago). Goldsmiths’ Work. THE GOLDSMITH'S HANDBOOK. By George E. Gee, Jeweller, &c. Third Edition, considerably Enlarged. i2mo, 3s. 6d. cl. bds. “A good, sornd educator, and will be accepted as an authority.”—Horological Journal. Silversmiths’ Work. THE SILVERSMITH'S HANDBOOK. By George E. Gee, Jeweller, &c. Second Edition, Revised, with numerous Illustrations. i2mo, 3s. 6d. cloth boards. “Workers in the trade will speedily discover its merits when they sit down to study it.”— English Mechanic. *** The above two works together, strongly half-bound, price 7s.CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. 34 Bread and Biscuit Baking. THE BREAD AND BISCUIT BAKER'S AND SUGAR- BOILER'S ASSISTANT. Including a large variety of Modern Recipes. With Remarks on the Art of Bread-making. By Robert Wells, Practical Baker. Second Edition, with Additional Recipes. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ A large number of wrinkles for the ordinary cook, as well as the baker.”—Saturday Review. Confectionery. THE PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. For Hotels, Restaurants and the Trade in general, adapted also for Family Use. By Robert Wells, Author of “ The Bread and Biscuit Baker’s and Sugar Boiler’s Assistant.” Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth, “ We cannot speak too highly of this really excellent work. In these days of keen competition our readers cannot do better than purchase this book.”—Bakers' Times. Ornamental Confectionery. ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY: A Guide for Bakers, Confectioners and Pastrycooks; including a variety of Modern Recipes, and Remarks on Decorative and Coloured Work. With 129 Original Designs. By Robert Wells. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. “A valuable work, and should be in the hands of every baker and confectioner. The illus- trative designs are alone worth treble the amount charged for the whole work.”— Bakers' limes. Flour Confectionery. THE MODERN FLOUR CONFECTIONER. Wholesale and Retail. Containing a large Collection of Recipes for Cheap Cakes, Biscuits, &c. With Remarks on the Ingredients used in their Manufacture, &c. By R. Wells, Author of “ Ornamental Confectionery,” “The Bread and Biscuit Baker,” “ The Pastrycook's Guide,’’ &c. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. Laundry Work. LA UN DRY MANAGEMENT. A Handbook for Use in Private and Public Laundries, Including Descriptive Accounts of Modern Machinery and Appliances for Laundry Work. By the Editor of “ The Laundry Journal.” With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. CHEMICAL MANUFACTURES & COMMERCE. New Manual of Engineering Chemistry. ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY : A Practical Treatise for the Use of Analytical Chemists, Engineers, Iron Masters, Iron Founders, Students, and others. Comprising Methods of Analysis and Valuation of the Principal Materials used in Engineering Work, with numerous Analyses, Examples, and Suggestions. By FI. Joshua Phillips, F.I.C., F.C.S., Analytical and Consulting Chemist to the Great Eastern Railway. Crown 8vo, 320 pp., with Illustrations, 10s. 6d. cloth. {Just published. “ In this work the author has rendered no small service to a numerous body of practical men. . . . The analytical methods may be pronounced most satisfactory, being as accurate as the despatch required of engineering chemists permits.”— Chemical News, Analysis and Valuation of Fuels. FUELS: SOLID, LIQUID AND GASEOUS, Their Analysis and Valuation. For the Use ot Chemists and Engineers. By H. J, Phillips, F.C.S., Analytical and Consulting Chemist to the Great Eastern Railway. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d, cloth, “ Ought to have its place in the laboratory of every metallurgical establishment, and wherever fuel is used on a large scale.”—Chemical News, “ Cannot faii to be of wide interest, especially at the present time.”— Railway News, Alkali Trade, Manufacture of Sulphuric Acid, etc. A MANUAL OF THE ALKALI TRADE, including the Manufacture of Sulphuric Acid, Sulphate of Soda, and Bleaching Powder. By John Lomas. 390 pages. With 232 Illustrations and Working Drawings. Second Edition. Royal 8vo, £1 10s. cloth. “This book is written by a manufacturer for manufacturers. The working details of the most approved forms of apparatus are given, and these are accompanied by no less than 232 wood en- gravings, all of which may be used for the purposes of construction.”— Atheneeum.35 AGRICULTURE, FARMING, GARDENING, etc. The Blowpipe, THE BLOWPIPE IN CHEMISTRY, MINERALOGY, AND GEOLOGY. Containing all known Methods of Anhydrous Analysis, Work- ing Examples, and Instructions for Making Apparatus. By Lieut.-Col. W. A. Ross, R.A. With 120 Illustrations. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. “The student who goes through the course of experimentation here laid down will gain a better insight into inorganic chemistry and mineralogy than if he had ‘got up’ any of the best text-books ot the day, and passed any number of examinations in their contents.”—Chemical News. Commercial Chemical Analysis, THE COMMERCIAL HANDBOOK OF CHEMICAL ANA- LYSIS; or, Practical Instructions tor the determination ot the Intrinsic or Commercial Value of Substances used in Manufactures,Trades, and the Arts. By A. Normandy. New Edition by H. M. Noad, F.R.S, Cr. 8vo, 12s. 6d. cl. “Essential to the analysts appointed under the new Act. The most recent results are given, and the work is well edited and carefully written.”—Nature. Brewing, A HANDBOOK FOR YOUNG BREWERS, By Herbert Edwards Wright, B.A. New Edition, much Enlarged, [In the press. Dye-Wares and Colours, THE MANUAL OF COLOURS AND DYE-WARES : Their Properties, Applications, Valuation, Impurities, and Sophistications. For the use of Dyers, Printers, Drysalters, Brokers, &c. By J. W. Slater. Second Edition, Revised and greatly Enlarged. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d. cloth. “A complete encyclopaedia of the materia tinctoria. The information given respecting each article is full and precise, and the methods of determining the value of articles such as these, so liable to sophistication, are given with clearness, and are practical as well as valuable.”—Chemist and Druggist. “ There is no other work which covers precisely the same ground. To students preparing for examinations in dyeing and printing it will prove exceedingly useful.”—Chemical News. Pigments. THE ARTIST'S MANUAL OF PIGMENTS. Showing their Composition, Conditions of Permanency, Non-Permanency, and Adul- terations; Effects in Combination with Each Other and with Vehicles ; and the most Reliable Tests of Purity. By H. C. Standage Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “This work is indeed multum-in-$arvo, and we can, with good conscience, recommend it to all who come in contact with pigments, whether as makers, dealers or users.”—Chemical Review, Gauging, Tables and Rules for Revenue Officers, Brewers, etc. A POCKET BOOK OF MENSURATION AND GAUGING : Containing Tables, Rules and Memoranda for Revenue Officers, Brewers, Spirit Merchants, &c. By J. B. Mant (Inland Revenue). Second Edition Revised. Oblong i8mo, 4s. leather, with elastic band. “ This handy and useful book is adapted to the requirements of the Inland Revenue Depart- ment, and will be a favourite book of reference.”—Civilian. “ Should be in the hands of every practical brewer.”—Brewers' Journal. AGRICULTURE, FARMING, GARDENING, etc. Youatt and Burn’s Complete Grazier, THE COMPLETE GRAZIER, and FARMER'S and CATTLE- BREEDER'S ASSISTANT. Including the Breeding, Rearing, and Feeding of Stock ; Management of the Dairy, Culture and Management of Grass Land, and of Grain and Root Crops, &c. By W. Youatt and R. Scott Burn. An entirely New Edition, partly Re-written and greatly Enlarged, by W. Fream, B.Sc.Lond., LL.D. In medium 8vo, about 1,000 pp. [fra the press. Agricultural Facts and Figures, NOTE-BOOK OF AGRICULTURAL FACTS AND FIGURES FOR FARMERS AND FARM STUDENTS. By Primrose McConnell, late Professor of Agriculture, Glasgow Veterinary College. Third Edition. Royal 32mo, 4$- leather. “The most complete and comprehensive Note-book, for Farmers and Farm Students that we have seen. It literally teems with information, and we can cordia llyrecommend it to all connected with agrcuilture."—North British Agriculturist.36 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. Flour Manufacture, Milling, etc. FLOUR MANUFACTURE: A Treatise on Milling Science and Practice. By Friedrich Kick, Imperial Regierungsrath, Professor of Mechanical Technology in the Imperial German Polytechnic Institute, Prague. Translated from the Second Enlarged and Revised Edition with Supplement. By H. H. P. Powles, A.M.I.C.E. Nearly 400 pp. Illustrated with 28 Folding Plates, and 167 Woodcuts. Royal 8vo, 25s. cloth. •' This valuable work is, and will remain, the standard authority on the science of milling. . The miller v/ho has read and digested this work will have laid the foundation, so to speak, of a suc- cessful career ; he will have acquired a number of general principles which he can proceed to apply. In this handsome volume we at last have the accepted text-book of modem milling in good, sound English, which has little, if any, trace of the German idiom.”—The Miller. “ The appearance of this celebrated work in English is very opportune, and British millers will, we are sure, not be slow in availing themselves of its pages. ’—Mtilers' Gazette. Small Farming. SYSTEMATIC SMALL FARMING; or, The Lessons of my Farm. Being an Introduction to Modern Farm Practice for Small Farmers in the Culture of Crops; The Feeding of Cattle; The Management of the Dairy, Poultry and Pigs, &c. &c. By Robert Scott Burn, Author of “ Out- lines of Landed Estates’ Management.” Numerous Illusts., cr. 8vo, 6s. cloth. “This is the completest book of its class we have seen, and one which every amateur farmer will read with pleasure and accept as a guide.”—Field. “The volume contains a vast amount of useful information. No branch of farming is led untouched, from the labour to be done to the results achieved. It may be safely recommended to all who think they will be in paradise when they buy or rent a three-acre farm.”—Glasgow Herald. Modern Farming. OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. By R. Scott Burn. Soils, Manures, and Crops—Farming and Farming Economy—Cattle, Sheep, and Horses — Management of Dairy, Pigs and Poultry — Utilisation of Town-Sewage, Irrigation, &c. Sixth Edition. In One Vol., 1,250 pp., half- bound, profusely Illustrated, 12s. “ The aim of the author has been to make his work at once comprehensive and trustworthy, and in this aim he has succeeded to a degree which entitles him to much credit.”—Morning Advertiser. “ No farmer should be without this book.”—Banbury Guardian. Agricultural Engineering. FARM ENGINEERING, THE COMPLETE TEXT-BOOK OF. Comprising Draining and Embanking; Irrigation and Water Supply; Farm Roads, Fences, and Gates ; Farm Buildings, their Arrangement and Con- struction, with Plans and Estimates; Barn Implements and Machines; Field Implements and Machines; Agricultural Surveying, Levelling, &c. By Prof. John Scott, Editor of the “ Farmers’ Gazette,” late Professor of Agriculture and Rural Economy at the Royal Agricultural College, Cirencester, &c. &c. In One Vol., 1,150 pages, half-bound, with over 600 Illustrations, 12s. “Written with great care, as well as with knowledge and ability. The author has done his work well; we have found him a very trustworthy guide wherever we have tested his statements. The volume will be of great value to agricultural students,”—Mark Lane Express. “ For a young agriculturist we know of.no handy volume likely to be more usefully studied. —Bell's Weekly Messenger. English Agricidture. THE FIELDS OF GREAT BRITAIN : A Text-Book of Agriculture, adapted to the Syllabus of the Science and Art Department. For Elementary and Advanced Students. By Hugh Clements (Board of Trade). Second Ed., Revised,with Additions. i8mo, 2s. 6d. cl. “Amost comprehensive volume, giving a mass of information.”—Agricultural Economist. “ It is a long time since we have seen a book which has pleased us more, or which contains such a vast and useful fund of knowledge.”—Educational Times. Tables for Farmers, etc. TABLES, MEMORANDA, AND CALCULATED RESULTS for Farmers, Graziers, Agricultural Students, Surveyors, Land Agents Auc- tioneers, etc. With a New System of Farm Book-keeping. Selected and Arranged by Sidney Francis. Second Edition, Revised. 272 pp., waist- coat-pocket size, is. 6d. limp leather. “ Weighing less than 1 oz., and occupying no more space than a match box, it contains a mass of facts and calculations which has never before, in such handy form, been obtainable. . Every operation on the farm is dealt with. The work may be taken as thoroughly accurate, the whole of the tables having been revised by Dr. Fream. We cordially recommend it.''—Bell's Weekly Messenger. “ A marvellous little book. . . . The agriculturist who possesses himself of it will not be disappointed with his investment. ’The Farm.AGRICULTURE, FARMING, GARDENING, etc. 37 Farm and Estate Book-keeping. BOOK-KEEPING FOR FARMERS & ESTATE OWNERS. A Practical Treatise, presenting, in Three Plans, a System adapted for all Classes of Farms. By Johnson M. Woodman, Chartered Accountant. Second Edition, Revised. Cr. 8vo, 3s. 6d. cl. bds.; or 2s. 6d. cl. limp. " The volume is a capital study of a most important subject.”—Agricultural Gazette. “ Will be found of great assistance by those who intend to commence a system of book-keep- ing, the author’s examples being clear and explicit, and his explanations, while full and accurate, being to a large extent free from technicalities.”—Live Stock Journal. Farm Account Book. WOODMAN'S YEARLY FARM ACCOUNT BOOK. Giving a Weekly Labour Account and Diary, and showing the Income and Expen- diture under each Department of Crops, Live Stock, Dairy, &c. &c. With Valuation, Profit and Loss Account, and Balance Sheet at the end of the Year, and an Appendix of Forms. Ruled and Headed for Entering a Com- plete Record of the Farming Operations. By Johnson M. Woodman, Chartered Accountant. Folio, 7s. 6d. half bound. [culture. “Contains every requisite form for keeping farm accounts readily and accurately.”—Agri- Early Fruits, Flowers and Vegetables. THE FORCING GARDEN; or, How to Grow Early Fruits, Flowers, and Vegetables. With Plans and Estimates for Building Glass- houses, Pits and Frames. By Samuel Wood. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “A good book, and fairly fills a place that was in some degree vacant. The book is written with great care, and contains a great deal of valuable teaching.”—Gardeners' Magazine. “ Mr. Wood’s book is an original and exhaustive answer to the question ‘ How to Grow Early Fruits, Flowers and Vegetables? ’ ’’—Land and Water. Good Gardening. A PLAIN GUIDE TO GOOD GARDENING ; or, Howto Grow Vegetables, Fruits, and Flowers. With Practical Notes on Soils, Manures, Seeds, Planting, Laying-out of Gardens and Grounds, &c. By S. Wood. Fourth Edition, with numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. "A very good book, and one to be highly recommended as a practical guide. The practical directions are excellent.”—Atheneeum. “ May be recommended to young gardeners, cottagers, and specially to amateurs, for the plain, simple, and trustworthy information it gives on common matters too often neglected.”— Gardeners' Chronicle. , Gainful Gardening. MULTUM-IN-PARVO GARDENING; cr, How to make One Acre of Land produce £620 a-year by the Cultivation of Fruits and Vegetables ; also, How to Grow Flowers in Three Glass Houses, so as to realise £176 per annum clear Profit. By S. Wood. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, is. sewed. “We are bound to recommend it as not only suited to the case of the amateur and gentleman’s gardener, but to the market grower.”—Gardeners' Magazine. Gardening for Ladies. THE LADIES' MULTUM-IN-PARVO FLOWER GARDEN, and Amateurs’ Complete Guide. By S. Wood. With Illusts. Cr. 8vo, 3s. 6d. cl. “ This volume contains a good deal of sound, common sense instruction.”—Florist. “ Full of shrewd hints and useful instructions, based on a lifetime of experience.”—Scotsman. Receipts for Gardeners. GARDEN RECEIPTS. By C. W. Quin. i2mo, is. 6d. cloth. “A useful and handy book, containing a good deal of valuable information.”—Atheneeum. Market Gardening. MARKET AND KITCHEN GARDENING. By Contributors to “ The Garden.” Compiled by C. W. Shaw, late Editor of “ Gardening Illustrated." i2mo, 3s. 6d. cloth boards. “ The most valuable compendium of kitchen and market-garden work published .’’—Farmer. Cottage Gardening. COTTAGE GARDENING; or, Flowers, Fruits, and Vegetables for Small Gardens. By E. Hobday. i2mo, is. 6d. cloth limp. Potato Culture. POTATOES : How to Grow and Show Them. A Practical Guide to the Cultivation and General Treatment of the Potato. By James Pink. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth.38 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. LAND AND ESTATE MANAGEMENT, LAW, etc. Hudson’s Land Valuer’s Pocket-Book. THE LAND VALUER'S BEST ASSISTANT: Being Tables on a very much Improved Plan, for Calculating the Value of Estates. With Tables tor reducing Scotch, Irish, and Provincial Customary Acres to Statute Measure, &c. By R. Hudson, C.E. New Edition. Royal 32mo, leather, elastic band, 4s. “This new edition includes tables for ascertaining the value of leases for any term of years ; and for showing how to lay out plots of ground of certain acres in forms, square, round, &c., with valuable rules for ascertaining the probable worth of standing timber to any amount; and is of incalculable value to the country gentleman and professional man.”—Farmers' Journal. Ewart’s Land Improver’s Pocket-Book» THE LAND IMPROVER'S POCKET-BOOK OF FORMULAE, TABLES and MEMORANDA required in any Computation relating to the Permanent Improvement of Landed Property. By John Ewart, Land Surveyor and Agricultural Engineer. Second Edition, Revised. Royal 32010, oblong, leather, gilt edges, with elastic band, 4s. “A compendious and handy little volume.”—Spectator. Complete Agricultural Surveyor’s Pocket-Book. THE LAND VALUER'S AND LAND IMPROVER'S COM- PLETE POCKET-BOOK. Consisting of the above Two Works bound to- gether. Leather, gilt edges, with strap, 7s. 6d. “ Hudson’s book is the best ready-reckoner on matters relating to the valuation of land and crops, and its combination with Mr. Ewart’s work greatly enhances the value and usefulness of the latter-mentioned. ... It is most useful as a manual for reference.”—North of England Farmer. Auctioneer’s Assistant. THE APPRAISER, A UCTIONEER, BROKER, HOUSE AND ESTA TE AGENT AND VALUER’S POCKET ASSISTANT, tor the Valua- tion for Purchase, Sale, or Renewal of Leases, Annuities and Reversions, and of property generally; with Prices for Inventories, &c. By John Wheeler, Valuer, &c. Fifth Edition, re-written and greatly extended by C. Norris, Surveyor, Valuer, &c. Royal 32100, 5s. cloth. “ A neat and concise book of reference, containing an admirable and clearly-arranged list of prices for inventories, and a very practical guide to determine the value of furniture,&c.”—Standard. “ Contains a large quantity of varied and useful information as to the valuation for purchase, sale, or renewal of leases, annuities and reversions, and of property generally, with prices for inventories, and a guide to determine the value of interior fittings and other effects.”—Builder. Auctioneering. AUCTIONEERS: THEIR DUTIES AND LIABILITIES. A Manual of Instruction and Counsel for the Young Auctioneer. By Robert Squibbs, Auctioneer. Second Edition, Revised and partly Re-written. Demy 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “The position and duties of auctioneers treated compendiously and clearly.”—Builder. “Every auctioneer ought to possess a copy of this excellent work."—Ironmonger. “ Of great value to the profession. . . . We readily welcome this book from the fact that it treats the subject in a manner somewhat new to the profession.”—Estates Gazette. Legal Guide for Pawnbrokers, THE PAWNBROKERS', FACTORS' AND MERCHANTS' GUIDE TO THE LAW OF LOANS AND PLEDGES. With the Statutes and a Digest of Cases on Rights and Liabilities, Civil and Criminal, as to Loans and Pledges of Goods, Debentures, Mercantile and other Se- curities. By H. C. Folkard, Esq., Barrister-at-Law, Author of “ The Law of Slander and Libel,” &c. With Additions and Corrections. Fcap. 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ This work contains simply everything that requires to be known concerning the department of the law of which it treats. We can safely commend the book as unique and very nearly perfect.' —Iron. “The task undertaken by Mr. Folkard has been very satisfactorily performed. . . . Such ex- planations as are needful have been supplied with great clearness and with due regard to brevity. City Press.LAND AND ESTATE MANAGEMENT, LAW, etc. 39 Law of Patents. PATENTS FOR INVENTIONS, AND HOW TO PROCURE THEM. Compiled for the Use of Inventors, Patentees and others. By G. G. M. Hardingham, Assoc.Mem.Inst.C.E., &c. Demy 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d. Metropolitan Rating Appeals. REPORTS OF APPEALS HEARD BEFORE THE COURT OF GENERAL ASSESSMENT SESSIONS, from the Year 1871 to 1885. By Edward Ryde and Arthur Lyon Ryde. Fourth Edition, brought down to the Present Date, with an Introduction to the Valuation (Metropolis) Act, 1869, and an Appendix by Walter C. Ryde, of the Inner Temple, Barrister- at-Law. 8vo, 16s. cloth. “ A useful work, occupying a place mid-way between a handbook for a lawyer and a guide to the surveyor. It is compiled by a gentleman eminent in his profession as a land agent, whose spe- cialty, it is acknowledged, lies i the direction of assessing property for rating purposes.”—Land Agents' Record. “ It is an indispensable wo of reference for all engaged in assessment business.”—Journal 0/ Gas Lighting. House Property. HANDBOOK OF HOUSE PROPERTY. A Popular and Practi- cal Guide to the Purchase, Mortgage, Tenancy, and Compulsory Sale of Houses and Land, including the Law of Dilapidations and Fixtures; with Examples of all kinds of Valuations, Useful Information on Building, and Suggestive Elucidations of Fine Art. By E. L. Tarbuck, Architect and Surveyor. Fourth Edition, Enlarged. i2mo, 5s. cloth. "The advice is thoroughly practical.”—Law Journal. “ For all who have dealings with house property, this is an indispensable guide."—Decoration. “ Carefully brought up to date, and much improved by the addition of a division on fine art. “ A well-written and thoughtful work.”—Land Agent's Record. Inwood’s Estate Tables. TABLES FOR THE PURCHASING OF ESTATES, Freehold, Copyhold, or Leasehold; Annuities, Advowsons, etc., and for the Renewing of Leases held under Cathedral Churches, Colleges, or other Corporate bodies, for Terms of Years certain, and for Lives; also for Valuing Reversionary Estates, Deferred Annuities, Next Presentations, &c.; together with Smart’s Five Tables of Compound Interest, and an Extension of the same to Lower and Intermediate Rates. By W. Inwood. 23rd Edition, with considerable Additions, and new and valuable Tables of Logarithms for the more Difficult Computations of the Interest of Money, Discount, Annuities, &c., by M. Fedor Thoman, of the Societe Credit Mobilier of Paris. Crown 8vo, 8s. cloth. "Those interested in the purchase and sale of estates, and in the adjustment of compensation cases, as well as in transactions in annuities, life insurances, &c„ will find the present edition of eminent service.”—Engineering. “ ‘ Inwood’s Tables ’ still maintain a most enviable reputation. The new issue has been enriched by large additional contributions by M. Fedor Thoman, whose carefully arranged Tables cannot fail to be of the utmost utility.”—Mining Journal. Agricultural and Tenant-Right Valuation. THE AGRICULTURAL AND TENANT-RIGHT-VALUER'S ASSISTANT. A Practical Handbook on Measuring and Estimating the Contents, Weights and Values of Agricultural Produce and Timber, the Values of Estates and Agricultural Labour, Forms of Tenant-Right-Valua- tions, Scales 01 Compensation under the Agricultural Holdings Act, 1883, &c. &c. By Tom Bright, Agricultural Surveyor. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. "Full of tables and examples in connection with the valuation of tenant-right, estates, labour, contents, and weights of timber, and farm produce of all kinds.”—Agricultural Gazette. “ An eminently practical handbook, full of practical tables and data of undoubted interest and value to surveyors and auctioneers in preparing valuations of all kinds.”—Farmer, Plantations and Underwoods. POLE PLANTATIONS AND UNDERWOODS: A Practical Handbook on Estimating the Cost of Forming, Renovating, Improving and Grubbing Plantations and Underwoods, their Valuation for Purposes of Transfer, Rental, Sale or Assessment. By Tom Bright, F.S.Sc., Author of “The Agricultural and Tenant-Right-Valuer’s Assistant,” &c. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “ Will be found very useful to those who are actually engaged in managing wood.”—Bell's Weekly Messenger. •‘To valuers, foresters and agents it will be a welcome aid.”—North British Agriculturist. ‘‘Well calculated to assist the valuer in the discharge of his duties, and of undoubted interest and use both to surveyors and auctioneers in preparing valuations of all kinds.”—Kent Herald.4° CROSBY LOCKWOOD dr» SON’S CATALOGUE. A Complete Epitome of the Laws of this Country. EVERY MAN’S OWN LAWYER: A Handy-Book of. the Principles of Law and Equity. By A Barrister. Twenty-ninth Edition. Revised and Enlarged. Including the Legislation of 1891, and including careful digests of The Tithe Act, 1891; the Mortmain and Charitable Uses Act, 1891; the Charitable Trusts {Recovery) Act, 1891; the Forged Transfers Act, 1891; the Custody of Children Act, 1891; the Slander of Women Act, 1891; the Public Health (London) Act, 1891; the Stamp Act, 1891; the Savings Bank Act, 1891; the Elementary Education (“ Free Education”) Act, 1891; the County Councils (Elections) Act, 1891; and the Land Registry {Middlesex Deeds) Act, 1891; while other new Acts have been duly noted. Crown 8vo, 688 pp., price 6s. M. (saved at every consultation!), strongly bound in cloth. [Just published. *** THE BOOK WILL BE FOUND TO COMPRISE (AMONGST OTHER MATTER)— The Rights and Wrongs of Individuals—Landlord and Tenant—Vendors and purchasers—partners and Agents—Companies and Associations—masters. Servants and Workmen—Leases and Mortgages—Church and Clergy, Ritual —Libel and Slander—Contracts and Agreements—Bonds and Bills of Sale- Cheques, Bills and Notes—Railway and Shipping law—Bankruptcy and In- surance-Borrowers, Lenders and Sureties—Criminal Law—Parliamentary ELECTIONS—COUNTY COUNCILS—MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS—PARISH LAW, CHURCH- WARDENS, etc.—public Health and nuisances—Friendly and Building societies—Copyright and Patents—Trade Marks and designs—husband and wife, Divorce, etc.—Trustees and Executors—Intestacy, Law of—Guardian and Ward, infants, etc.—Game Laws and Sporting-Horses, Horse-dealing And dogs—Innkeepers, Licensing, etc.—Forms of Wills, Agreements, etc. etc. Note.—The object of this work is to enable those who consult it to help them- selves to the law; and thereby to dispense, as far as possible, with professional assistance and advice. There are many wrongs and grievances which persons sub- mit to from time to time through not knowing how or where to apply for redress ; and many persons have as great a dread of a lawyer's office as of a lion's den. With this book at hand it is believed that many a Six-and-Eightpence may be saved; many a wrong redressed; many a right reclaimed; many a law suit avoided; and many an evil abated. The work has established itself as the standard legal adviser of all classes, and also made a reputation for itself as a useful book of reference for lawyers residing at a distance from law libraries, who are glad to have at hand a work em- bodying recent decisions and enactments. *** Opinions of the Press. “ It is a complete code of English Law, written in plain language, which ail can understand. . . Should be in the hands of every business man, and all who wish to abolish lawyers’ bills.”— Weekly Times. “ A useful and concise epitome of the law, compiled with considerable care.”—Law Magazine. “A complete digest of the most useful facts which constitute English law.”—Globe. “ Admirably done, admirably arranged, and admirably cheap.”—Leeds Mercury. ‘ A concise, cheap and complete epitome of the English law So plainly written that he who runs may read, and he who reads may understand.”—Figaro. “ A dictionary of legal facts well put together. The book is a very useful one."—Spectator. “Thelatest edition of this popular book ought to be in every business establishment, and on every library table.”—Sheffield Post. Private Bill Legislation and Provisional Orders. HANDBOOK FOR THE USE OF SOLICITORS AND EN- GINEERS Engaged in Promoting Private Acts of Parliament and Provi- sional Orders, for the Authorization of Railways, Tramways, Works for the Supply of Gas and Water, and other undertakings of a like character. By L. Livingston Macassey, of the Middle Temple, Barrister-at-Law, M. Inst.C.E.; Author of “ Hints on Water Supply.’’ 8vo, 950 pp., 25s. cloth. “ The volume is a desideratum on a subject which can be only acquired by practical experi- ence, and the order of procedure in Private Bill Legislation and Provisional Orders is followed. The author’s suggestions and notes will be found of great value to engineers and others profession- ally engaged in this class of practice. ” —Building Ne-ws. “ The author’s double experience as an engineer and barrister has eminently qualified him for the task, and enabled him to approach the subject alike from an engineering and legal point of view. The volume will be found a great help both to engineers and lawyers engaged in promoting Private Acts ot Parliament and Provisional Orders.”—Local Government Chronicle. OGDEN, SMALE AND CO. LIMITED, PRINTERS, GREAT SAFFRON HILL, E.CMuUtmmtarj) | LONDON, 1862. ||THE PRIZE MEDAL Was awarded to the Publishers of “WEALE’S SERIES.’ A NEW LIST OF WEALE’S SERIES Architects, Builders, Artisans, and Students generally, as well as to those interested in Worknutnl^JLdbraries^L^ie^ Science Classes, &>c., &^c. IS3’ “ WEALE’S SERIES includes Text-Books on almost every branch of Science and Industry, comprising such subjects as Agriculture, Architecture and Building, Civil Engineering, Fine Arts, Mechanics and Mechanical Engineering, Physical and Chemical Science, and many miscellaneous Treatises. The whole are constantly undergoing revision, and new editions, brought up to the latest discoveries in scientific research, are constantly issued. The prices at which they are sold are. as low as their excellence is assured.”—American Literary Gazette. “ Amongst the literature of technical education, Weale’s Series has ever enjoyed a high reputation, and the additions being made by Messrs. Crosby Lockwood & Son render the series more complete, and bring the informa- tion upon the several subjects down to the present time.”—Mining Journal. “ It is not too much to say that no books have ever proved more popular with, or more useful to, young engineers and others than the excellent treatises comprised in Weale’s Series.”—Engineer. “The excellence of Weale’s Series is now so well appreciated, that it would be wasting our space to enlarge upon their general usefulness and value.”—Builder. “The volumes of Weale’s Series form one of the best collections of elementary technical books in any language.”—Architect. “WEALE’S SERIES has become a standard as well as an unrivalled collection of treatises in all branches of art and science.”—Public Opinion, 7, STATIONERS’ HALL COURT, LUDGATE HILL, LONDON, E.C. PHILADELPHIA, 1876, THE PRIZE MEDAL Was awarded to the Publishers for Books: Rudimentary, Scientific, “WEALE’S SERIES,” ETC. CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON,weale’s rudimentary series. LONDON : CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON, WEALE’S RUDIMENTAEY SCIENTIFIC SERIES. *** The volumes of this Series are freely Illustrated with Woodcuts, or otherwise, where requisite. Throughout the fol- lowing List it must be understood that the books are bound in limp cloth, unless otherwise stated; but the volumes marked with a t may also be had strongly bound in cloth boards for 6d. extra, N.B.—In ordering from this List it is recommended, as a means of facilitating business and obviating error, to quote the numbers affixed to the volumes, as well as the titles and prices. CIVIL ENGINEERING, SURVEYING, ETC. No. 31. WELLS AND WELL-SINKING. By John Geo. Swindell, A.R.I.B.A., and G. R. Burnell, C.E. Revised Edition. With a New Appendix on the Qualities of Water. Illustrated. 2s. 35. THE BLASTING AND QUARRYING OF STONE, for Building and other Purposes. By Gen. Sir J. Burgoyne, Bart. is. 6d. 43. TUBULAR, AND OTHER IRON GIRDER BRIDGES, par- ticularly describing the Britannia and Conway Tubular Bridges. By G. Drysdale Dempsey, C.E. Fourth Edition. 2s. 44. FOUNDATIONS AND CONCRETE WORKS, with Practical Remarks on Footings, Sand, Concrete, Beton, Pile-driving, Caissons, and Cofferdams, &c. By E. Dobson. Seventh Edition, is. 6d. 60. LAND AND ENGINEERING SURVEYING. By T. Baker, C.E. Fifteenth Edition, revised by Professor J. R. Young. 2s.t 80*. EMBANKING LANDS FROM THE SEA. With examples and Particulars of actual Embankments, &c. By J. Wiggins, F.G.S. 2s. 81. WATER WORKS, for the Supply of Cities and Towns. With a Description of the Principal Geological Formations of England as in- fluencing Supplies of Water, &c. By S. Hughes, C.E. New Edition. 4s.t 118. CIVIL ENGINEERING IN NORTH AMERICA, a Sketch of. By David Stevenson, F.R.S.E., &c. Plates and Diagrams. 3s. 167. IRON BRIDGES, GIRDERS, ROOFS, AND OTHER WORKS. By Francis Campin, C.E. 2s. 6d.i 197. ROADS AND STREETS. By H. Law, C.E., revised and enlarged by D. K. Clark, C.E., including pavements of Stone, Wood, Asphalte, &c. 4s. 6d.i 203. SANITAR Y WORK IN THE SMALLER TO WNS AND IN VILLAGES. By C. Slagg, A.M.I.C.E. Revised Edition. 3s.* 212. GAS-WORKS, THEIR CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGE- MENT; and the Manufacture and Distribution of Coal Gas. Originally written by Samuel Hughes, C.E. Re-written and enlarged by William Richards, C.E. Eighth Edition, with important additions. 5s. 6d.J 213. PIONEER ENGINEERING. A Treatise on the Engineering Operations connected with the Settlement of Waste Lands in New Coun- tries. By Edward Dobson, Assoc. Inst. C.E. 4s. 6d.t 216. MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION; A Theoretical and Practical Treatise on the Strains, Designing, and Erection of Works of Con- struction. By Francis Campin, C.E. Second Edition, revised. 3s.* 2 [9. CIVIL ENGINEERING. By Henry Law, M.Inst. C.E. Including Hydraulic Engineering by Geo. R. Burnell, M.Inst. C.E. Seventh Edition, revised, with large additions by D. Kinnear Clark, M.Inst. C.E. 6s. 6d., Cloth boards, 7s. 6d. 268*. THE DRAINAGE OF LANDS, TOWNS, &-= BUILDINGS. By G. D. Dempsey, C.E. Revised, with large Additions on Recent Practice in Drainage Engineering, by D. Kinnear Clark, M.I.C.E. Second Edition, Corrected. 4s. 6d.t [fust published. The t indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.3 weale’s rudimentary series. 7, STATIONERS’ hall court, ludgate hill, e.c. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, ETC. 33. CRANES, the Construction of, and other Machinery for Raising Heavy Bodies. By Joseph Glynn, F.R.S. Illustrated, is. 6d. 34. THE STEAM ENGINE. By Dr. Lardner. Illustrated, is. 6d. 59. STEAM BOILERS: their Construction and Management. By R. Armstrong, C.E. Illustrated, is. 6d. 82. THE POWER OF WATER, as applied to drive Flour Mills, and to give motion to Turbines, &c. By Joseph Glynn, F.R.S. 2s4 98. PRACTICAL MECHANISM, the Elements of; and Machine Tools. By T. Baker, C.E. With Additions by J. Nasmyth, C.E. 2s. 6d4 139. THE STEAM ENGINE, a Treatise on the Mathematical Theory of, with Rules and Examples for Practical Men. By T. Baker, C.E. is. 6d. 164. MODERN WORKSHOP PRACTICE, as applied to Steam Engines, Bridges, Ship-building, Cranes, &c. ByJ. G. Winton. Fourth Edition, much enlarged and carefully revised. 3s. 6d4 {Just published. 165. IRON AND HEAT, exhibiting the Principles concerned in the Construction of Iron Beams, Pillars, and Girders. By J. Armour. 2s. 6d4 166. POWER IN MOTION: Horse-Power, Toothed-Wheel Gearing, Long and Short Driving Bands, and Angular Forces. ByJ. Armour, 2s4 171. THE WORKMANS MANUAL OF ENGINEERING DRAWING. ByJ. Maxton. 7th Edn. With 7 Plates and 350 Cuts. 3s. 6d4 190. STEAM AND THE STEAM ENGINE, Stationary and Portable. Being an Extension of the Elementary Treatise on the Steam Engine ot Mr. John Sewell. By D. K. Clark, M.I.C.E. 3s. 6d4 200. FUEL, its Combustion and Economy. By C. W. Williams. With Recent Practice in the Combustion and Economy of Fuel—Coal, Coke, Wood, Peat, Petroleum, &c.—by D. K. Clark, M.I.C.E. 3s. 6d4 202. LOCOMOTIVE ENGINES. By G. D. Dempsey, C.E.; with large additions by D. Kinnear Clark, M.I.C.E. 3s.t 211. THE BOILERMAKER’S ASSISTANT in Drawing, Tern- plating, and Calculating Boiler and Tank Work. By John Courtney Practical Boiler Maker. Edited by D. K. Clark, C.E. 100 Illustrations. 2s, 217. SEWING MACHINERY: Its Construction, History, &c., with full Technical Directions for Adjusting, &c. By J. W. Urquhart, C.E. 2S.J 223. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING. Comprising Metallurgy, Moulding, Casting, Forging, Tools, Workshop Machinery, Manufacture of the Steam Engine, &c. By Francis Campin, C.E. Second Edition. 2s. 6d4 236. DETAILS OF MACHINERY. Comprising Instructions for the Execution of various Works in Iron. By Francis Campin, C.E. 3s.t 237. THE SMITHY AND FORGE; including the Farrier’s Art and Coach Smithing. By W. J. E. Crane. Illustrated. 2s. 6d.J 238. THE SHEET-METAL WORKER’S GUIDE; a Practical Hand- book for Tinsmiths, Coppersmiths, Zincworkers, &c. With 94 Diagrams and Working Patterns. By W. J. E. Crane. Second Edition, revised, is. 6d. 251. STEAM AND MACHINERY MANAGEMENT: with Hints on Construction and Selection. By M. Powis Bale, M.I.M.E. 2s. 6d4 254. THE BOILERMAKER’S READY-RECKONER. By J. Courtney. Edited by D. K. Clark, C.E. 4s., limp; 5s., half-bound. 255. LOCOMOTIVE ENGINE-DRIVING. A Practical Manual for Engineers in charge of Locomotive Engines. By Michael Reynolds, M.S.F. Eighth Edition. 3s. 6d., limp ; 4s. 6d. cloth boards. 256. STATIONARY ENGINE-DRIVING. A Practical Manual Engineers in charge of Stationary Engines. By Michael Reynolds, M.S.E. Third Edition. 3s. 6d. limp ; 4s. 6d. cloth boards. 260. IRON BRIDGES OF MODERATE SPAN: their Construc- tion and Erection. By Hamilton W. Pendred, C.E. 2s. The % indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.4 weale’s rudimentary series. LONDON! CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON, MINING, METALLURGY, ETC. 4. MINERALOGY, Rudiments of; a concise View of the General Properties of Minerals. By A. Ramsay, F.G.S., F.R.G.S., &c. Third Edition, revised and enlarged. Illustrated. 3s. 6d.t 117. SUBTERRANEOUS SURVEYING, with and without the Mag- netic Needle. By T. Fenwick and T. Baker, C.E. Illustrated. 2s. 6d. t 135. ELECTRO-METALLURGY; Practically Treated. By Alex- ander Watt. Ninth Edition, enlarged and revised, with additional Illus- trations, and including the most recent Processes. 3s. 6d.i 172. MINING TOOLS, Manual of. For the Use of Mine Managers, Agents, Students, &c. By William Morgans. 2s. 6d. 172*. MINING TOOLS, ATLAS of Engravings to Illustrate the above, containing 235 Illustrations, drawn to Scale. 4to. 4s. 6d, 176. METALLURGY OF IRON. Containing History of Iron Manu- facture, Methods of Assay, and Analyses of Iron Ores, Processes of Manu- facture of Iron and Steel, &c. By H. Bauerman, F.G.S. Sixth Edition, revised and enlarged. 5s.t [Justpublished. 180. COAL AND COAL MINING. By the late Sir Warington W. Smyth, M.A., F.R.S. Seventh Edition, revised. 3s. 6d4 [Justpublished. 195. I HE MINERAL SURVEYOR AND VALUER'S COM- PLETE GUIDE. By W. Lintern, M.E. Third Edition, including Mag- netic and Angular Surveying. With Four Plates. 3s. 6d.t 214. SLATE AND SLATE QUARR YING, Scientific, Practical, and Commercial. By D. C. Davies, F.G.S., Mining Engineer, &c. 3s.t 264. A FIRST BOOK OF MINING AND QUARRYING, with the Sciences connected therewith, for Primary Schools and Self Instruction. By J. H. Collins, F.G.S. Second Edition, with additions, is. 6d. ARCHITECTURE, BUILDING, ETC. 16. ARCHITECTURE— ORDERS—The Orders and their ^Esthetic Principles. By W. H. Leeds. Illustrated, is. 6d. 17. ARCHITECTURE—STYLES—The History and Description of the Styles of Architecture of Various Countries, from the Earliest to the Present Period. By T. Talbot Bury, F.R.I.B.A., &c. Illustrated. 2s. *** Orders and Styles of Architecture, in One Vol., 3s. 6d. 18. ARCHITECTURE—.DESIGN—The Principles of Design in Architecture, as deducible from Nature and exemplified in the Works of the Greek and Gothic Architects. ByE. L. Garbett, Architect. Illustrated. 2s.6d. %* The three preceding Works, in One handsome Vol., half bound, entitled “Modern Architecture,”price 6s, 22. THE ART OF BUILDING, Rudiments of. General Principles of Construction, Materials used in Building, Strength and Use of Materials, Working Drawings, Specifications, and Estimates. By E. Dobson, 2s4 25. MASONRY AND STONECUTTING: Rudimentary Treatise on the Principles of Masonic Projection and their application to Con- struction. By Edward Dobson, M.R.I.B.A., &c. 2s. 6d.t 42. COTTAGE BUILDING. By C. Bruce Allen, Architect. Eleventh Edition, revised and enlarged. With'a Chapter on Economic Cottages for Allotments, by Edward E. Allen, C.E. 2s. 45. LIMES, CEMENTS, MORTARS, CONCRETES, MASTICS, PLASTERING, &c. By G. R. Burnell, C.E. Thirteenth Edition, is. 6d. 57. WARMING AND VENTILATION. An Exposition of the General Principles as applied to Domestic and Public Buildings, Mines, Lighthouses, Ships, &c. By C. Tomlinson, F.R.S., &c. Illustrated. 3s. ill. ARCHES, PIERS, BUTTRESSES, &c.: Experimental Essays on the Principles of Construction. By W. Bland. Illustrated, is. 6d. The t indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.weale’s rudimentary series. 5 7, STATIONERS’ HALL COURT, LUDGATE HILL, E.C. Architecture, Building, etc., continued. 116. THE ACOUSTICS OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS; or, The Principles of the Science of Sound applied to the purposes of the^Architect and Builder. By T. Roger Smith, M.R.I.B.A., Architect. Illustrated, is. 6d. 127. ARCHITECTURAL MODELLING IN PAPER, the Art of. By T. A. Richardson, Architect. Illustrated, is. 6d. 128. VITRUVIUS—THE ARCHITECTURE OF MARCUS VITRUVIUS POLLO. In Ten Books. Translated from the Latin by Joseph Gwilt, F.S.A., F.R.A.S. With 23 Plates. 5s. 130, GRECIAN ARCHITECTURE, An Inquiry into the Principles of Beauty in ; with an Historical View of the Rise and Progress of the Art in Greece. By the Earl of Aberdeen, is. *#* The two preceding Works in One handsome Vol., half bound, entitled “Ancient Architecture,” price 6s. 132. THE ERECTION OF DWELLING-HOUSES. Illustrated by a Perspective View, Plans, Elevations, and Sections of a pair of Semi- detached Villas, with the Specification, Quantities, and Estimates, &c. By S. H. Brooks. New Edition, with Plates. 2s. 6d„i 156. QUANTITIES 6- MEASUREMENTS in Bricklayers’, Masons’, Plasterers’, Plumbers’, Painters’, Paporhangers’, Gilders’, Smiths’, Carpenters’ and Joiners’ Work. By A. C. Beaton, Surveyor. Ninth Edition, is. 6d. 175. LOCKWOOD'S BUILDER'S PRICE BOOK FOR 1892. A Comprehensive Handbook of the Latest Prices and Data for Builders, Architects, Engineers, and Contractors. Re-constructed, Re-written, and further Enlarged. By Francis T. W. Miller, A.R.I.B.A. 700 pages. 3s. 6d.; cloth boards, 4s. \Just Published. 182. CARPENTRY AND JOINERY— The Elementary Prin- ciples of Carpentry. Chiefly composed from the Standard Work of Thomas Tredgold, C.E. With a TREATISE ON JOINERY by E. Wyndham Tarn, M.A. Fifth Edition, Revised. 3s. 6d.t 182*. CARPENTRY AND JOINERY. ATLAS of 35 Plates to accompany the above. With Descriptive Letterpress. 4to. 6s. 185. THE COMPLETE MEASURER ; the Measurement of Boards, Glass, &c.; Unequal-sided. Square-sided, Octagonal-sided, Round Timber and Stone, and Standing Timber, &c. By Richard Horton. Fifth Edition. 4s.; strongly bound in leather, 5s. 187. HINTS TO YOUNG ARCHITECTS. By G. Wightwick. New Edition. By G. H. Guillaume. Illustrated. 3s. 6d.t 188. HOUSE PAINTING, GRAINING, MARBLING, AND SIGN WRITING : with a Course of Elementary Drawing for House-Painters, Sign- Writers, &c., and a Collection of Useful Receipts. By Ellis A. Davidson. Sixth Edition. With Coloured Plates 5s. cloth limp ; 6s. cloth boards. 189. THE RUDIMENTS OF PRACTICAL BRICKLAYING. In Six Sections : General Principles ; Arch Drawing, Cutting, and Setting; Pointing; Paving, Tiling, Materials; Slating and Plastering; Practical Geometry, Mensuration, &c. By Adam Hammond. Seventh Edition, is. 6d. 191. PLUMBING. A Text-Book to the Practice of the Art or Craft ot the Plumber. With Chapters upon House Drainage and Ventilation. Sixth Edition. With 380 Illustrations. By W. P. Buchan. 3s. 6d.t 192. THE TIMBER IMPORTER'S, TIMBER MERCHANT'S, and BUILDER’S STANDARD GUIDE. By R. E. Grandy. 2s. 206. A BOOK ON BUILDING, Civil and Ecclesiastical, including Church Restoration. With the Theory of Domes and the Great Pyramid, &c. By Sir Edmund Beckett, Bart., LL.D., Q.C., F.R.A.S. 4s. 6d.t 226. THE JOINTS MADE AND USED BY BUILDERS in the Construction of various kinds of Engineering and Architectural Works. By Wyvill J. Christy, Architect. With upwards of 160 Engravings on Wood. 3s.i 228. THE CONSTRUCTION OF ROOFS OF WOOD AND IRON. By E. Wyndham Tarn, M.A., Architect. Second Edition, revised, is. 6d. ©ST3 The t indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.6 WEALE S RUDIMENTARY SERIES. LONDON : CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON, Architecture, Building, etc., continued. 229. ELEMENTARY DECORATION: as applied to the Interior and Exterior Decoration of Dwelling-Houses, &c. By J. W. Facey. 2s. 257. PRACTICAL HOUSE DECORATION. A Guide to the Art of Ornamental Painting. By James W. Facey. 2s. 6d. *»* The two preceding Works, in One handsome Vol., half-bound, entitled “ House Decoration, Elementary and Practical,” price $s. 230. HANDRAILING. Showing New and Simple Methods for finding the Pitch of the Plank, Drawing the Moulds, Bevelling, Jointing-up, and Squaring the Wreath. By George Collings. Second Edition, Revised including A Treatise on Stairbuilding. Plates and Diagrams. 2s. 6d, 247. BUILDING ESTA TES: a Rudimentary Treatise on the Develop- ment, Sale, Purchase, and General Management of Building Land. By Fowler Maitland, Surveyor. Second Edition, revised. 2s. 248. PORTLAND CEMENT FOR USERS. By Henry Faija, Assoc. M. Inst. C.E. Third Edition, corrected. Illustrated. 2s. 252. BRICKWORK: a Practical Treatise, embodying the General and Higher Principles of Bricklaying, Cutting and Setting, &c. By F. Walker. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged, is. 6d. 23. THE PRACTICAL BRICK AND TILE BOOK. Comprising: 189. Brick and Tile Making, by E. Dobson, A.I.C.E.; Practical Bricklay- 265. ing, by A. Hammond ; Brickcutting and Setting, by A. Hammond. 534 pp. with 270 Illustrations. 6s. Strongly half-bound. 253. THE TIMBER MERCHANT'S, SAW-MILLER’S, AND IMPORTER’S FREIGHT-BOOK AND ASSISTANT. By Wm. Rich- ardson. With a Chapter on Speeds of Saw-Mill Machinery, &c. By M. Powis Bale, A.M.Inst.C.E. 3s.* 258. CIRCULAR WORK IN CARPENTRY AND JOINERY. A Practical Treatise on Circular Work of Single and Double Curvature. By George Collings. Second Edition, 2s. 6d. 259. GAS FITTING: A Practical Handbook treating of every Description of Gas Laying and Fitting. By John Black. With 122 Illus- trations. 2s. 6d.f 261. SHORING AND ITS APPLICATION: A Handbook for the Use of Students. By George H. Blagrove. is. 6d. {Just published. 265. THE AR T OF PR A CTICA L BRICK CUTTING & SETTING. By Adam Hammond. With 90 Engravings, is. 6d. [ Just published. 267. THE SCIENCE OF BUILDING: An Elementary Treatise on the Principles of Construction. Adapted to the Requirements of Architec- tural Students. By E. Wyndham Tarn, M.A. Lond. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. With 59 Wood Engravings. 3s. 6d.t [ Just published. 27I» VENTILATION: a Text-book to the Practice of the Art of Ventilating Buildings, with a Supplementary Chapter upon Air Testing. By William Paton Buchan, R.P., Sanitary and Ventilating Engineer, Author of “ Plumbing,” &c. 3s. 6d.t {Justpublished. SHIPBUILDING, NAVIGATION, MARINE ENGINEERING, ETC. 51. NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. An Exposition of the Elementary Principles of the Science, and their Practical Application to Naval Construc- tion. By J. Peake. Fifth Edition, with Plates and Diagrams. 3s. 6d.f 53*. SHIPS FOR OCEAN 6” RIVER SER VICE, Elementary and Practical Principles of the Construction of. By H. A. Sommerfeldt. is. 6d. 53**. AN ATLAS OF ENGRA VINGS to Illustrate the above. Twelve large folding plates. Royal 4to, cloth. 7s. 6d. 54. MASTING, MAST-MAKING, AND RIGGING OF SHIPS, Also Tables of Spars, Rigging, Blocks; Chain, Wire, and Hemp Ropes, &c., relative to every class of vessels. By Robert Kipping, N.A. 2s. The t indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extraWE ale’s rudimentary series. 7 7, STATIONERS’ HALL COURT, LUDGATE HILL, E.C. Shipbuilding, Navigation, Marine Engineering, etc., cont. 54*. IRON SHIP-BUILDING. With Practical Examples and Details. By Johh Grantham. C.E. Fifth Edition. 4s. 55. THE SAILOR’S SEA BOOK: a Rudimentary Treatise on Navigation. By James Greenwood, B.A. With numerous Woodcuts and Coloured Plates. New and enlarged edition. By W. H. Rosser. 2s. 6d.t 80. MARINE ENGINES AND STEAM VESSELS. By Robert Murray, C.E. Eighth Edition, thoroughly Revised, with Additions by the Author and by George Carlisle, C.E. 4s. 6d. limp ; 5s. cloth boards. 8ibis. THE FORMS OF SHIPS AND BOATS. By W. Bland. Seventh Edition, Revised, with numerous Illustrations and Models, is. 6d. 99. NAVIGATION AND NAUTICAL ASTRONOMY, in Theory and Practice. By Prof. J. R. Young. New Edition. 2s. 6d. 106. SHIPS’ ANCHORS, a Treatise on. By G. Cotsell, N.A. is. 6d. 149. SAILS AND SAIL-MAKING. With Draughting, and the Centre of Effort of the Sails ; Weights and Sizes of Ropes: Masting, Rigging, and Sails of Steam Vessels, &c. 12th Edition. By R. Kipping, N.A., 2s 6d.t 155. ENGINEER’S GUIDE TO THE ROYAL & MERCANTILE NAVIES. By a Practical Engineer. Revised by D. F. McCarthy. 3s. 55 PRACTICAL NAVIGATION. Consisting of The Sailor’s & Sea-Book. By James Greenwood and W. H. Rosser. Together with the requisite Mathematical and Nautical Tables for the Working of the 4* Problems. By H. Law, C.E., and Prof. J. R. Young. 7s. Half-bound. AGRICULTURE, GARDENING, ETC. 61*. A COMPLETE READY RECKONER FOR THE ADMEA- SUREMENT OF LAND, &c. By A. Arman. Third Edition, revised and extended by C. Norris, Surveyor, Valuer, &c. 2s. 131. MILLER’S, CORN MERCHANT'S, AND FARMER’S READY RECKONER. Second Edition, with a Price List of Modern Flour-Mill Machinery, by W. S. Hutton, C.E. 2s. 140. SOILS, MANURES, AND CROPS. (Vol. 1. Outlines of Modern Farming.) By R. Scott Burn. Woodcuts. 2s. 141. FARMING & FARMING ECONOMY, Notes, Historical and Practical, on. (Vol. 2. Outlines of Modern Farming.) By R. Scott Burn. 3s. 142. STOCK; CATTLE, SHEEP, AND HORSES. (Vol. 3. Outlines of Modern Farming.) By R. Scott Burn. Woodcuts. 2s. 6d. 145. DAIRY, PIGS, AND POULTRY, Management of the. By R. Scott Burn. (Vol. 4. Outlines of Modern Farming.) 2s. 146. UTILIZATION OF SEWAGE, IRRIGATION, AND RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. (Vol. 5. Outlines of Modern Farming.) By R. Scott Burn. Woodcuts. 2s. 6d. *#* Nos. 140-1-2-5-6, in One Vol., handsomely half-bound, entitled 11 Outlines of Modern Farming.” By Robert Scott Burn. Price 12s. 177, FRUIT TREES, The Scientific and Profitable Culture of. From the French of Du Breuil. Revised by Geo. Glenny. 187 Woodcuts. 3s. 6d.$ 198. SHEEP; THE HIS TOR Y, STRUCTURE, ECONOMY, AND DISEASES OF. By W. C. Spooner, M.R.V.C., &c. Fifth Edition, enlarged, including Specimens ot New and Improved Breeds. 3s. 6d.t 201. KIICHEN GARDENING MADE EASY. By George M. F. Glenny. Illustrated, is. 6d.t 207. OUTLINES OF FARM MANAGEMENT, and the Organi- zation of Farm Labour. By R. Scott Burn. 2s. 6d.f 208. OUTLINES OF LANDED ESTATES MANAGEMENI By R. Scott Burn. 2s. 6d. *** Nos. 207 208 in One Vol., handsomely half-bound, entitled “ Outlines of Landed Estates and Farm Management.” By R. Scott Burn. Price 6.y. The t indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.8 weale’s rudimentary series. LONDON I CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON, A griculture, Gardening, etc., continued. 209. IHE TREE PLANTER AND PLANT PROPAGATOR. A Practical Manual on the Propagation of Forest Trees, Fruit Trees, Flowering Shrubs, Flowering Plants, &c. By Samuel Wood. 2s. 210. THE TREE PRUNER. A Practical Manual on the Pruning of Fruit Trees, including also their Training and Renovation ; also the Pruning of Shrubs, Climbers, and Flowering Plants. By Samuel Wood. is. 6d. *** Nos. 209 <5v 210 in One Vol., handsomely half-bound, entitled “The Tree Planter, Propagator, and Pruner.” By Samuel Wood. Price 3$. 6d. 218. THE HA Y AND STRA W MEASURER : Being New Tables for the Use of Auctioneers, Valuers, Farmers, Hay and Straw Dealers, &c. By John Steele. Fourth Edition. 2s. 222. SUBURBAN FARMLNG. The Laying-out and Cultivation of Farms, adapted to the Produce of Milk, Butter, and Cheese, Eggs, Poultry, and Pigs. By Prof. John Donaldson and R. Scott Burn. 3s. 6d.t 231. THE ART OF GRAFTING AND BUDDLNG. By Charles Baltet. With Illustrations. 25. 6d.t 232. COTTAGE GARDENING; or, Flowers, Fruits, and Vegetables for Small Gardens. By E. Hobday, is. 6d. 233. GARDEN RECEIPTS. Edited by Charles W. Quin. is. 6d. 234. MARKET AND KITCHEN GARDENING. By C. W. Shaw, Uate Editor of “ Gardening Illustrated.” 3s.t {Just published. 239. DRAINING AND EMBANKING. A Practical Treatise, em- bodying the most recent experience in the Application of Improved Methods. By John Scott, late Professor of Agriculture and Rural Economy at the Royal Agricultural College, Cirencester. With 68 Illustrations, is; 6d. 240. IRRIGATION AND WATER SUPPLY. A Treatise on Water Meadows, Sewage Irrigation, and Warping; the Construction of Wells, Ponds, and Reservoirs, &c. By Prof. John Scott. With34lllus. is. 6d. 241. FARM ROADS, FENCES, AND GATES. A Practical Treatise on the Roads, Tramways, and Waterways of the Farm; the Principles of Enclosures; and the different kinds of Fences, Gates, and Stiles. By Professor John Scott. With 75 Illustrations, is. 6d. 242. FARM BUILDINGS. A Practical Treatise on the Buildings necessary for various kinds of Farms, their Arrangement and Construction, with Plans and Estimates. By Prof. John Scott. With 105 Ulus. 2s. 243. BARN IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINES. A Practical Treatise on the Application of Power to the Operations of Agriculture; and on various Machines used in the Threshing-barn, in the Stock-yard, and in the Dairy, &c. By Prof. J. Scott. With 123 Illustrations. 2s. 244. FIELD IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINES. A Practical Treatise on the Varieties now in use, with Principles and Details of Con- struction, their Points of Excellence, and Management. By Professor John Scott. With 138 Illustrations. 2s. 245. AGRICULTURAL SURVEYING. A Practical Treatise on Land Surveying, Levelling, and Setting-out; and on Measuring and Esti- mating Quantities, Weights, and Values of Materials, Produce, Stock, &c. By Prof. John Scott. With 62 Illustrations, is. 6d. Nos. 239 to 245 in One Vol., handsomely half-bound, entitled “The Complete Text-Book of Farm Engineering.” By Professor John Scott. Price 12s. 750. MEAT PRODUCTION. A Manual for Producers, Distributors, &c. By John Ewart. 2s. 6d.t 266. BOOK-KEEPING FOR FARMERS & ESTATE OWNERS. By J. M. Woodman, Chartered Accountant. 2s. 6d. cloth limp; 3s. 6d. cloth boards. {Just published. The t indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.WEALE’S RUDIMENTARY SERIES. 9 7, STATIONERS’ hall court, ludgate hill, e.c. MATHEMATICS, ARITHMETIC, ETC. 32. MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS, a Treatise on; Their Construction, Adjustment, Testing, and Use concisely Explained. By J. F. Heather, M.A. Fourteenth Edition, revised, with additions, by A. T. Walmisley, M.I.C.E., Fellow of the Surveyors’ Institution. Original Edi- tion, in 1 vol., Illustrated. 2s.t [Justpublished. *** In ordering the above, be careful to say, “ Original Edition ” [No. 32), to dishn- guish it from the Enlarged Edition in 3 vols. (Nos. 168-9-70.) 76. DESCRIPTIVE GEOMETRY, an Elementary Treatise on; with a Theory of Shadows and of Perspective, extracted from the French of G. Monge. To which is added, a description of the Principles and Practice of Isometrical Projection. By J. F. Heather, M.A. With 14 Plates. 2s. 178. PRACTICAL PLANE GEOMETRY: giving the Simplest Modes of Constructing Figures contained in one Plane and Geometrical Con- struction of the Ground. By J. F. Heather, M,A. With 215 Woodcuts. 2S. 83. COMMERCIAL BOOK-KEEPING. With Commercial Phrases and Forms in English, French, Italian, and German. By James Haddon, M.A., Arithmetical Master of King’s College School, London, is. 6d. 84. ARITHMETIC, a Rudimentary Treatise on: with full Explana- tions of its Theoretical Principles, and numerous Examples for Practice. By Professor J. R. Young. Eleventh Edition, is. 6d. 84*. A Key to the above, containing Solutions in full to the Exercises, together with Comments, Explanations, and Improved Processes, for the Use of Teachers and Unassisted Learners. By J. R. Young, is. 6d. 85. EQUATIONAL ARITHMETIC, applied to Questions of Interest, Annuities, Life Assurance, and General Commerce ; with various Tables by which all Calculations may be greatly facilitated. By W. Hipsley. 2s. 86. ALGEBRA, the Elements of. By James Haddon, M.A. With Appendix, containing miscellaneous Investigations, and a Collection of Problems in various parts of Algebra. 2s. 86*. A Key and Companion to the above Book, forming an extensive repository of Solved Examples and Problems in Illustration of the various Expedients necessary in Algebraical Operations. By J. R. Young, is. 6d. 88. EUCLID, The Elements of : with many additional Propositions go. and Explanatory Notes: to which is prefixed, an Introductory Essay on Logic. By Henry Law, C.E. 2s. 6d.t *** Sold also separately, viz. :— 88. Euclid, The First Three Books. By Henry Law, C.E. is. 6d. 89. Euclid, Books 4, 5, 6, 11, 12. By Henry Law, C.E. is. 6d. 90. ANALYTICAL GEOMETRY AND CONIC SECTIONS\ By James Hann. A New Edition, by Professor J. R. Young. 2s.t 91. PLANE TRIGONOMETRY, the Elements of. By James Hann, formerly Mathematical Master of King’s College, London, is. 6d. 92. SPHERICAL TRIGONOMETR Y, the Elements of. By James Hann. Revised by Charles H. Dowling, C.E. is. %* Or with “ The Elements of Plane Trigonometry,” in One Volume, 2s. 6d. 93. MENSURATION AND MEASURING. With the Mensuration and Levelling of Land for the Purposes of Modem Engineering. By T. Baker, C.E. New Edition by E. Nugent, C.E. Illustrated, is. 6d. toi. DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS, Elements of the. By W. S. B. Woolhouse, F.R.A.S., &c. is. 6d. 102. INTEGRAL CALCULUS, Rudimentary Treatise on the. By Homersham Cox, B.A. Illustrated, is. 136. ARITHMETIC, Rudimentary, for the Use of Schools and Self- Instruction. By James Haddon, M.A. Revised by A. Arman, is. 6d. 137. A Key to Haddon’s Rudimentary Arithmetic. By A. Arman, is. 6d. The ± indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.WEALE’S rudimentary series. IO LONDON I CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON, Mathematics, Arithmetic, etc., continued. i63. DRAWING AND MEASURING INSTRUMENTS. Includ- ing—I. Instruments employed in Geometrical and Mechanical Drawing, and in the Construction, Copying, and Measurement of Maps and Plans. II. Instruments used for the purposes of Accurate Measurement, and for Arithmetical Computations. By J. F. Heather, M.A. Illustrated, is. 6d. 169, OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS. Including (more especially) Tele- scopes, Microscopes, and Apparatus for producing copies of Maps and Plans by Photography. By J. F. Heather, M.A. Illustrated, is. 6d. 170. SURVEYING AND ASTRONOMICAL INSTRUMENTS. Including—I. Instruments Used for Determining the Geometrical Features of a portion of Ground. II. Instruments Employed in Astronomical Observa- tions. By J. F. Heather, M.A. Illustrated, is. 6d. *** The above three volumes form an enlargement of the Author’s original voork “Mathematical Instruments.” (See No. 32 in the Series.) 168. |MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS. By J. F. Heather, 169. 7 M.A. Enlarged Edition, for the most part entirely re-written. The 3 Parts as 170. ) above, in One thick Volume. With numerous Illustrations. 4s. 6d.f 158. THE SLIDE RULE, AND HOW TO USE IT; containing full, easy, and simple Instructions to perform all Business Calculations with unexampled rapidity and accuracy. By Charles Hoare, C.E. Fifth. Edition. With a Slide Rule in tuck of cover. 2s. 6d.t 196. THEORY OF COMPOUND INTEREST AND ANNUI- TIES ; with Tables of Logarithms for the more Difficult Computations of Interest, Discount, Annuities, &c. By FGdor Thoman. Fourth Edition. 4s.£ 199. THE COMPENDIOUS CALCULATOR ; or, Easy and Concise Methods of Performing the various Arithmetical Operations required in Commercial and Business Transactions; together with Useful Tables. By D. O’Gorman. Twenty-seventh Edition, carefully revised by C. Norris^ 2s 6d., cloth limp ; 3s. 6d., strongly half-bound in leather. 204. MATHEMATICAL TA BLES, for Trigonometrical, Astronomical, and Nautical Calculations; to which is prefixed a Treatise on Logarithms. By Henry Law, C.E. Together with a Series of Tables for Navigation and Nautical Astronomy. By Prof. J. R. Young. New Edition. 4s. 204*. LOGARITHMS. With Mathematical Tables for Trigonometrical, Astronomical, and Nautical Calculations. By Henry Law, M.Inst.C.E. New and Revised Edition. (Forming part of the above Work). 3s. 221. MEASURES, WEIGHTS, AND MONEYS OF ALL NA- TIONS, and an Analysis of the Christian, Hebrew, and Mahometan Calen- dars. By W. S. B. Woolhouse, F.R.A.S., F.S.S. Seventh Edition, 2s. 6d.t 227. MATHEMATICS AS APPLIED TO THE CONSTRUC- TIVE ARTS. Illustrating the various processes of Mathematical Investi- gation, by means of Arithmetical and Simple Algebraical Equations and Practical Examples. Bv Francis Campin. C.E. Second Edition. 3S.t PHYSICAL SCIENCE, NATURAL PHILO- SOPHY, ETC. 1. CHEMISTRY. By Professor George Fownes, F.R.S. With an Appendix on the Application of Chemistry to Agriculture, is. 2. NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, Introduction to the Study of. By C. Tomlinson. Woodcuts, is. 6d. 6. MECHANICS, Rudimentary Treatise on. By Charles Tom- linson. Illustrated, is. 6d. 7. ELECTRICITY; showing the General Principles of Electrical Science, and the purposes to which it has been applied. By Sir W. Snow- Harris, F.R.S., &c. With Additions by R. Sabine, C.E., F.S.A. is. 6d. 1*. GALVANISM. By Sir W. Snow Harris. New Edition by Robert Sabine, C.E., F.S.A. is. 6d. 8. MAGNETISM; being a concise Exposition of the General Prin- ciples of Magnetical Science. By Sir W. Snow Harris. New Edition, revised by H. M. Noad, Ph.D. With 165 Woodcuts. 3s. 6d.f Bfev" The t indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extm11 we .ale’s rudimentary series. 7, STATIONERS' HALL COURT, LUDGATK HILL, E.C. Physical Science, Natural Philosophy, etc., continued. 11. THE ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH; its History and Progress; with Descriptions of some of the Apparatus. By R. Sabine, C.E., F.S.A. 3s. 12. PNEUMATICS, including Acoustics and the Phenomena of Wind Currents, for the Use of Beginners By Charles Tomlinson, F.R.S. Fourth Edition, enlarged. Illustrated, is. 6d. \_Just published. 72. MANUAL OF THE MOLL USCA; a Treatise on Recent and Fossil Shells. By Dr. S. P. Woodward, A.L.S. Fourth Edition. With Plates and 300 Woodcuts. 7s. 6d., cloth. 96. ASTRONOMY. By the late Rev. Robert Main, M.A. Third Edition, by William Thynne Lynn, B.A., F.R.A.S. 2s. 97. STATICS AND DYNAMICS, the Principles and Practice of; embracing also a clear development of Hydrostatics, Hydrodynamics, and Central Forces. By T. Baker, C.E. Fourth Edition, is. 6d. 173. PHYSICAL GEOLOGY\ partly based on Major-General Port- lock’s “Rudiments of Geology.” By Ralph Tate, A.L.S.,&c. Woodcuts. 2s. 174. HISTORICAL GEOLOGY\ partly based on Major-General Portlock’s “ Rudiments.” By Ralph Tate, A.L.S., &c. Woodcuts. 2s. 6d.. 173 RUDIMENTARY TREATISE ON GEOLOGY, Physical and & Historical. Partly based on Major-General Portlock’s “ Rudiments of 174. Geology.” By Ralph Tate, A.L.S., F.G.S., &c. In One Volume. 4s. 6d.t 183 ANIMAL PHYSICS, Handbook of. By Dr. Lardner, D.C.L.^ Sc formerly Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in University l8d College, Lond. With 520 Illustrations. In One Vol. 7s. 6d., cloth boards. *** Sold also in Tvuo Parts, as follows :— 183. Animal Physics. By Dr. Lardner. Part I., Chapters I.—VII. 4s. 184. Animal Physics. By Dr. Lardner. Part II., Chapters VIII.—XVIII. 3s. 269. LIGHT: an Introduction to the Science of Optic-, for the Use oT Students of Architecture, Engineering, and other Applied Sciences. By E- Wyndham Tarn, M.A. is. 6d. [ Just published. FINE ARTS. 20. PERSPECTIVE FOR BEGINNERS. Adapted to Young Students and Amateurs in Architecture, Painting, &c. By George Pyne. 2s» 40 GLASS STAINING, AND THE ART OF PAINTING ON GLASS. From the German of Dr. Gessert and Emanuel Otto From- berg. With an Appendix on The Art of Enamelling. 2s. 6d. 69. MUSIC, A Rudimentary and Practical Treatise on. With numerous Examples. By Charles Child Spencer. 2s. 6d. 71. PIANOFORTE, The Art of Playing the. With numerous Exer- cises & Lessons from the Best Masters. By Charles Child Spencer. is.6d.. 69-71. MUSIC 6r* THE PIANOFORTE. In one vol. Half bound, 5s. 181. PAINTING POPULARLY EXPLAINED, including Fresco, Oil, Mosaic, Water Colour, Water-Glass, Tempera, Encaustic, Miniature, Painting on Ivory, Vellum, Pottery, Enamel, Glass, &c. With Historical Sketches of the Progress of the Art by Thomas John Gullick, assisted by John Timbs, F.S.A. Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged, ss.t 186. A GRAMMAR OF COLOURING, applied tc Decorative Painting and the Arts. By George Field. New Edition, enlarged and adapted to the Use of the Ornamental Painter and Designer. By Ellis A. Davidson. With two new Coloured Diagrams, &c. 3s.t 246. A DICTIONARY OF PAINTERS, AND HANDBOOK FOR PICTURE AMATEURS ; including Methods of Painting, Cleaning, Re- lining and Restoring, Schools of Painting, &c. With Notes on the Copyists- and Imitators of each Master. By Philippe Daryl. 2s. 6d.J The t indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.12 weale’s rudimentary series. LONDON I CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON. INDUSTRIAL AND USEFUL ARTS. 23. BRICKS AND TILES, Rudimentary Treatise on the Manufac- ture of. By E. Dobson, M.R.I.B.A. Illustrated, 3s4 67. CLOCKS, WATCHES, AND BELLS, a Rudimentary Treatise on. By Sir Edmund Beckett, LL.D., Q.C. Seventh Edition, revised and en- larged. 4s. 6d. limp ; 5s. 6d. cloth boards. 83**. CONSTRUCTION OF DOOR LOCKS. Compiled from the Papers of A. C. Hobbs, and Edited by Charles Tomlinson, F.R.S. 2s. 6d. 162. THE BRASS FOUNDER’S MANUAL; Instructions for Modelling, Pattern-Making, Moulding, Turning, Filing, Burnishing, Bronzing, &c. With copious Receipts, &c. By Walter Graham. 2s4 205. THE ART OF LETTER FAINTING MADE EASY. By J. G. Badenoch. Illustrated with 12 full-page Engravings of Examples, is. 6d- 215. THE GOLDSMITH S HANDBOOK, containing full Instruc- tions for the Alloying and Working of Gold. By George E. Gee, 3S4 225. THE SILVERSMITHS HANDBOOK, containing full In- structions for the Alloying and Working of Silver. By George E. Gee. 3s.t *** The two preceding Works, in One handsome Vot,., half-bound, entitled “The Goldsmith’s & Silversmith’s Complete Handbook,” -js. 249. THE HALL-MARKING OF JEWELLERY PRACTICALLY CONSIDERED. By George E. Gee. 3s.1t 224. COACH BUILDING, A Practical Treatise, Historical and Descriptive. By J. W. Burgess. 2s. 6d4 235. PRACTICAL ORGAN BUILDING. By W. E. Dickson, M. A., Precentor of Ely Cathedral. Illustrated. 2s. 6d.t 262. THE ART OF BOOT AND SHOEMAKING. By John Bedford Leno. Numerous Illustrations. Third Edition. 2s. 263. MECHANICAL DENTISTRY: A Practical Treatise on the Construction of the Various Kinds of Artificial Dentures, with Formulae, Tables, Receipts, &c. By Charles Hunter. Third Edition. 3s.t 270. WOOD ENGRAVING: A Practical and Easy Introduction to the Study of the Art. By W. N. Brown, is. 6d. MISCELLANEOUS VOLUMES. 36. A DICTIONARY OF TERMS used in ARCHITECTURE, BUILDING, ENGINEERING, MINING, METALLURGY, ARCHAE- OLOGY, the FINE ARTS, &*c. By John We ale. Fifth Edition. Revised by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. Illustrated. 5s. limp ; 6s. cloth boards. 50. THE LAW OF CONTRACTS FOR WORKS AND SER- VICES. By David Gibbons. Third Edition, enlarged. 3S4 112. MANUAL OF DOMESTIC MEDICINE. By R. Gooding, B.A., M.D. A Family Guide in all Cases of Accident and Emergency 2S. 112*. MANAGEMENT OF HEALTH. A Manual ot Home and Personal Hygiene. By the Rev. James Baird, B.A. is. 150. LOGIC, Pure and Applied. By S. H. Emmens. is. 6d. 153. SELECTIONS FROM LOCKE'S ESSAYS ON THE HUMAN UNDERSTANDING. With Notes by S. PI. Emmens. 2s. 154. GENERAL HINTS TO EMIGRANTS. 2s. 157. THE EMIGRANTS GUIDE TO NATAL. By Robert James Mann, F.R.A.S., F.M.S. Second Edition. Map. 2s. 193. HANDBOOK OF FIELD FORTIFICATION. By Major W. W. Knollys, F.R.G.S. With 163 Woodcuts. 3S.4 194. THE HOUSE MANAGER : Being a Guide to Housekeeping. Practical Cookery, Pickling and Preserving, Household Work, Dairy Management, &c. By An Old Housekeeper. 3s. 6d4 i94> HOUSE BOOK {The). Comprising :—I. The House Manager. 112 & By an Old Housekeeper. II. Domestic Medicine. By R. Gooding, M.D. I j 2* III. Management of Health. By J. Baird. In One Vol., half-bound, 6s. gslt^ The J indicates that these vols may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.13 weale's educational and classical series. 7, stationers’ hall court, ludgate hill, e.c. EDUCATIONAL AND CLASSICAL SERIES. HISTORY. 1. England, Outlines of the History of 5 more especially with reference to the Origin and Progress of the English Constitution. By William Douglas Hamilton, F.S.A., of Her Majesty’s Public Record Office. 4th Edition, revised. 5s.; cloth boards, 6s. 5. Greece, Outlines of the History of; in connection with the Rise of the Arts and Civilization in Europe. By W. Douglas Hamilton, of University College, London, and Edward Levien, M.A., of Balliol College, Oxford. 2s. 6d.; cloth boards, 3s. 6d. 7. Rome, Outlines of the History of: from the Earliest Period to the Christian Era and the Commencement of the Decline of the Empire. By Edward Levien, of Balliol College, Oxford. Map, 2s. 6d.; cl.bds. 3s. 6d. 9. Chronology of History, Art, Literature, and Progress, from the Creation of the World to the Present Time. The Continuation by W. D. Hamilton, F.S.A. 3s.; cloth boards, 3s. 6d. 50. Dates and Events in English History, for the use of Candidates in Public and Private Examinations. By the Rev. E. Rand. is. ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND MISCELLANEOUS. 11. Grammar of the English Tongue, Spoken and Written. With an Introduction to the Study of Comparative Philology. By Hyde Clarke, D.C.L. Fourth Edition, is. 6d. 12. Dictionary of the English Language, as Spoken and Written. Containing above 100,000 Words. By Hyde Clarke, D.C.L. 3s. 6d.; cloth boards, 4s. 6d.; complete with the Grammar, cloth bds., 5s. 6d. 48. Composition and Punctuation, familiarly Explained for those who have neglected the Study of Grammar. By Justin Brenan 18th Edition, is. 6d. 49. Derivative Spelling-Book: Giving the Origin of Every Word from the Greek, Latin, Saxon, German, Teutonic, Dutch, French, Spanish, and other Languages ; with their present Acceptation and Pronunciation. By J. Rowbotham, F.R.A.S. Improved Edition, is. 6d. 51. The Art of Extempore Speaking: Hints for the Pulpit, the Senate, and the Bar. By M. Bautain, Vicar-General and Professor at the Sorbonne. Translatedfrom the French. 8th Edition, carefully corrected. 2s. 6d. 54. Analytical Chemistry, Qualitative and Quantitative, a Course of. To which is prefixed, a Brief Treatise upon Modern Chemical Nomencla- ture and Notation. By Wm. W. Pink and George E. Webster. 2s. THE SCHOOL MANAGERS’ SERIES OF READING BOOKS, Edited by the Rev. A. R. Grant, Rector of Hitcham, and Honorary Canon of Ely; formerly H.M. Inspector of Schools. Introductory Primer, 3d. First Standard Second „ Third j. d. o 6 Fourth Standard 0 10 Fifth ' ,, 1 o Sixth ,, s. d. 1 2 1 6 1 6 Lessons from the Bible. Part I. Old Testament, is. Lessons from the Bible. Part II. New Testament, to which is added The Geography of the Bible, for very young Children. By Rev. C. Thornton Forster, is. 2d. *** Or the Two Parts in One Volume. 2s.WEALE'S educational and classical series. 14 LONDON I CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON, FRENCH. 24. French. Grammar. With Complete and Concise Rules on the Genders of French Nouns. By G. L. Strauss, Ph.D. is. 6d. 25. French-English Dictionary. Comprising a large number of New Terms used in Engineering, Mining, &c. By Alfred Elwes. is. 6d. 26. Englich-French Dictionary. By Alfred Elwes. 2s. 25,26. French Dictionary (as above). Complete, in One Vol., 3s.; cloth boards, 3s. 6d. *** Or with the Grammar, cloth boards, 4s. 6d. 47. French and English Phrase Book : containing Intro- ductory Lessons, with Translations, several Vocabularies of Words, a Col- lection of suitable Phrases, and Easy Familiar Dialogues, is. 6d. GERMAN. 39. German Grammar. Adapted for English Students, from Heyse’s Theoretical and Practical Grammar, by Dr. G. L. Strauss, is. 6d. 40. German Reader: A Series of Extracts, carefully culled from the most approved Authors of Germany; with Notes, Philological and Ex- planatory. By G. L. Strauss, Ph.D. is. 41-43. German Triglot Dictionary. By N. E. S. A. Hamilton. In Three Parts. Part I. German-French-English. Part II. English-Ger- man-French. Part III. French-German-English. 3s., or cloth boards, 4s. 41-43 German Triglot Dictionary (as above), together with German 39. Grammar (No. 39), in One Volume, cloth boards, 5s. ITALIAN. 27. Italian Grammar, arranged in Twenty Lessons, with a Course of Exercises. By Alfred Elwes. is. 6d. 28. Italian Triglot Dictionary, wherein the Genders of all the Italian and French Nouns are carefully noted down. By Alfred Elwes. Vol. 1. Italian-English-French. 2s. 6d. 30. Italian Triglot Dictionary. By A. Elwes. Vol. 2. English-French-Italian. 2s. 6d. 32. Italian Triglot Dictionary. By Alfred Elwes. Vol. 3. French-Italian-English. 2S. 6d. 28,30, Italian Triglot Dictionary (as above). In One Vol., 7s. 6d. 32. Cloth boards. SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE. 34. Spanish Grammar, in a Simple and Practical Form. With a Course of Exercises. By Alfred Elwes. is. 6d. . , 35. Spanish-English and English-Spanisb Dictionary. Including a large number of Technical Terms used in Mining, Engineering, &c. with the proper Accents and the Gender of every Noun. By Alfred Elwes 4s. ; cloth boards, 5s. V Or with the Grammar, cloth boards, 6s. 55. Portuguese Grammar, in a Simple and Practical Form. With a Course of Exercises. By Alfred Elwes. is. 6d. 56. Portuguese-English and English-Portuguese Dic- tionary. Including a large number of Technical Terms used in Mining, Engineering, &c., with the proper Accents and the Gender of every Noun. By Alfred Elwes. Second Edition, Revised, 5s.; cloth boards, 6s. * Or with the Grammar, cloth boards, 7s. HEBREW. 46*. Hebrew Grammar. By Dr. Bresslau. is. 6d. 44. Hebrew and English Dictionary, Biblical and Rabbinical; containing the Hebrew and Chaldee Roots of the Old Testament Post- Rabbinical Writings. By Dr. Bresslau. 6s. -r-v _ctT »TT 46. English and Hebrew Dictionary. By Dr. Bresslau. 3s. 44,46. Hebrew Dictionary (as above), in Two Vols., complete, with 46*. the Grammar, cloth boards, 12s.