ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 801 while the right leg hangs in front and slightly across the left, and seems to be at least three inches shorter; he leans slightly back and supports himself on two sticks: as he walks the right foot is considerably everted, and when he moves without sticks (which he accomplishes with the greatest difficulty) he places the whole sole of the foot flat upon the ground. He never, however, ventures of his own accord to move without the help of two sticks, by the assist- ance of which he is enabled to walk quicker; while moving along thus, the heel of the affected limb does not quite reach the ground, and the lumbar vertebrae undergo great motion. He cannot under any circumstances flex the thigh on the abdomen, so that when he assumes the sitting posture, he is obliged to place him- self forwards on the very edge of the seat, the right thigh remaining in the same line as the axis of the trunk, the leg usually flexed and placed under the chair, or across behind the other, and he finds the utmost difficulty in putting on his stockings and shoes. He has scarcely any motion in the hip-joint. When we view the hip in front, and examine it, we see and can feel a considerable bony fulness, corresponding to the horizontal branch of the pubis: the trochanter major seems placed very high up, and is extraordinarily large as if sur- rounded with ossific deposits. The thigh is somewhat atrophied, being an inch and a half less in circumference than the other, but the calf of the leg is not reduced, and the muscles seem firm ; the apparent shortening of the limb, when he rests on the sound one, arises from the lumbar vertebra being much curved to the oppo- site side, and the pelvis being elevated on the affected side, while the real shortening ascer- tained by accurate measurement amounts only to half an inch. If we place the patient horizontally and attempt to communicate to the hip-joint any movement, as of rotation, flexion, abduction, a well-marked crepitus is elicited, and the range of motion is found to be very limited indeed; a little abduction is admitted; rotation and flexion seem just to a sufficient degree to shew that no anchylosis exists. The move- ments give some pain to the patient, but we can press the trochanter firmly so as to direct the head of the bone deep against the fundus of the acetabulum, and we can even strike the heel and sole of the foot with violence without giving the patient the slightest sensation of pain. The anatomical characters of this disease are very well marked. The muscles are usually of a paler colour than natural, and are found not to be so well developed 'as those of the opposite or sound hip. The fibrous capsule of the joint is greatly thickened, the cotyloid ligament is either ossified or absorbed, and the ligament which completes the notch, and in the natural state gives origin to the liga- mentum teres, is usually converted into bone, leaving generally beneath its arch whether bony or not a space for the transmission of bloodvessels to the interior of the joint;* when * Cruveilhicr, livraison iv. p. L La presence VOL. II. the disease is fully established the ligamentum teres is altogether removed, the synovial fluid is deficient in quantity, and the cartilage is removed from the bottom of the acetabulum, and upper surface of the head of the femur. If here and there some vestige of the synovial membrane or sub-synovial tissue remain, it is in a highly vascular condition, presenting an intensely red colour. In a case of dissection which Messrs. Smith, Brabazon, and the writer witnessed lately of this disease, we observed that the shortened neck of the femur was entirely surrounded with a number of red villous - looking productions of the synovial membrane. These were of a rounded and conical form, half, an inch long and two or three lines broad at their bases. They resem- bled much in form the long conical papillae to be seen on the tongue and about the fauces of herbivorous quadrupeds ; however, instead of being white and firm they were soft and villous, and of an intensely red colour. The line of the corona of the head was absorbed and excavated in points, and the different foveas or depressions were completely occupied by these vascular fimbriae. Still more recently the wri- ter met with a similar specimen which he pre- sented for inspection to the Pathological So- ciety, in which these vascular fimbriae were equally conspicuous.* The acetabulum is generally much larger and deeper than natural, and forms a circular cup often two inches deep with a complete level brim, which is sometimes so much narrowed as to render the extraction of the head of the femurdifficult. This is the most frequent abnor- mal appearance the acetabulum presents; but occasionally it is increased in size, and is at the same time very shallow and of an oval form. When we examine the bottom of the acetabu- lum we find it widened and not any trace of Haversian gland is left; the interior presents a worn and porous appearance, the cartilage and compact stratum of bone which the caitilage normally covers, having been removed, and in some places where the friction and pressure from the head of the femur have been greatest, instead of a rough and worn porous appearance, resulting from the exposure of the cells of the bone, a dense enamel has been as it were ground into these pores, and here the surface presents the polish, smoothness, and hardness of ivory. This mechanical removal of the carti- lage and exposure of the interior of the cells of the bone, and substitution for the cartilage of a dense inanimate enamel, we imagine, are pro- cesses which are not confined to the acetabu- lum ; but their results are seen also on those parts of the head of the femur which are sub- jected to pressure and friction ; hence we find the effects of friction, above alluded to, most d'un nerfet d'un vaisseau, cespartiesfondamentales de l'organisation, semblent en quclque sorte re- spectees par les lesions organiqucs, qu'elles soient ces lesions circulent tout a lit our, mais ne les en- vahissent presque jamais, oil du moins les envahis- sent apres tous les autres tissues lorsquellcs sont parvenus a leur dernie.re periode. * Dublin Journal for March 1839, No. xliii. 3 G