Ill ENTOZOA. multitude of agglomerated cells mingled with tubes. The whole of these hollow organs, the parietes of which are extremely thin, and which contain fluids the densities of which vary, ne- cessarily make mutual exchanges of their con- tents by way of endosmosis and exosmosis. Nor can we suppose but that the same pheno- mena take place among the various cells and cavities exhibited by the organism of animals. But the effects of endosmosis, its influence on the physiological phenomena presented by ani- mals, has yet to be determined ; and here, un- doubtedly, the physiologist has an ample field before him for inquiry. I shall only say in conclusion, and with reference to this very in- teresting part of the subject, that I have satis- fied myself that it is to endosmosis that the motions of the well-known spiral spring tubes of the milt of the cuttle-fish, when put into water, are owing. (H. Dutrochet.) ENTOZOA, (euto?, intus, tpov, animal,) eA/aikGe; crrgoyyvhoi, eA^ivQe; wXcnuca, ctcry.a.- £»Je;, Arist. et Antiq. Vers Intestinaux, Cuv. Entelmintha, Splanchnelmintha, Zeder. The term Entozoa, like the term Infusoria, is indicative of a series of animals, associated together chiefly in consequence of a similarity of local habitation ; which in the present class is the internal parts of animals. In treating therefore of the organization of these parasites, we are compelled to consider them, not as a class of animals established on any common, exclusive, or intelligible cha- racters, but as the inhabitants of a peculiar dis- trict or country. They do not, indeed, present the types of so many distinct groups as those into which the naturalist finds it necessary to distribute the subjects of a local Fauna, yet they can as little be regarded as constituting one natural assem- blage in the system of Animated Nature. And it may be further observed that as the members of no single class of animals are con- fined to one particular country, so neither are the differgfit natural groups of Entozoa exclu- sivelv^jepresented by species parasitic in the interior of animal bodies. Few zoologists, we apprehend, would dissociate and place in sepa- rate classes, in any system professing to set forth the natural affinities of the animal king- dom, the Plunaria from the Tremutoda, or the Vibrioniclce from the microscopic parasite of the human muscles. In the present article it is proposed to divide the various animals confounded together under the common term of Entozoa or Entelmintha into three primary groups or classes; and, as in speaking of the traits of organization common to each, it becomes not only convenient but necessary to have terms for the groups so spoken of, they will be denominated Protel- mint/ia, Sterelmintha, and Ccelelmintha respec- tively. It may be observed that each of these groups, which here follow one another in the order of their respective superiority or com- plexity of organization, has been indicated, and more or less accurately defined by pre- vious zoologists. After the dismemberment of the Infusoria of Cuvier into the classes Polygastrica and Kotifera, which resulted from the researches of Professor Ehrenberg into the structure of these microscopic beings, there remained certain families of Animalcules which could not be definitely classed with either: these were the Cercariadce and Vibrio- nida. Mr. Pritchard, in his very useful work on Animalcules, has applied to the latter fa- mily the term Entozoa, from the analogy of their external form to the ordinary species of intestinal worms ; and it is somewhat singular that a species referrible to the Vibrionidce should subsequently have been detected in the human body itself. Premising that the tribe Vibrionidie as at present constituted is by no means a natural group, and that some of the higher organized genera, as Anguillula, are re- ferrible to the highest rather than the lowest of the classes of Entozoa, we join the lower organ- ized genera, which have no distinct oviducts, and which, like the parasitic Trichina, resemble the foetal stage of the Nematoid worms, with the Cercariada, in which the generative apparatus is equally inconspicuous; and these families, dismembered from the Infusoria of Lamarck, constitute the class Protelmintha, the first or earliest forms of Entozoa. The second and third classes correspond to the two divisions of the class Intestinalia, in the ' Regne Animal' of Cuvier, and which are there respectively denominated ' Vers Intesti- naux Parenchymateux,' and ' Vers Intestinaux Cavitaires.' The characters of these classes will be fully considered hereafter; and in the mean- while but little apology seems necessary for in- venting names expressive of the leading distinc- tion of each group as Latin equivalents for the compound French phrases by which they have hitherto been designated. Etyu><? appears to have been applied by the Greeks to the in- testinal worms generally, as Aristotle speaks of eA^ivGe? TrXaTEtai, intestinalia lata, and sA^Se? argoyyvhcct, intestinalia teretia. In framing the terms Sterelmintha and Calelmin- tha, from Efyui*; o-reqta., a solid or parenchy- matous worm, and Etyuv; x.oi\ri, a hollow or cavitary worm, I follow the example of Zeder, and omit the aspirate letter. It may be ob- served by the way that Zeder's term Splanchnel- mintha, besides including animals which are developed in other parts than the viscera, is, like the term Entozoa, open to the objection of being applied to a series of animals which, ac- cording to their organization, belong to distinct classes. The limits and object of the present article obviously forbid an extensive or very minute consideration of the anatomical details of each of these classes of animals, and we are com- pelled to confine ourselves almost exclusively to such illustrations of their respective plans of organization as are afforded by the species referrible to each which inhabit the human body. If a drop of the secretion of the testicle be expressed from the divided vas deferens in a recently killed mammiferous animal, which