FASCIA. 229 more especially the infra-orbitar. Neuralgia of the lower part of the face seems, however, in some instances to follow the course of those branches of the cervical plexus which proceed toward this region. Division of the nerves, though it sometimes checks, seldom cures this painful affection, for the divided nerves spee- dily reunite, and the complaint returns; and this takes place even after a portion of the nerve has been removed. Spasmodic affections of the face are connected with the branches of the portio dura : both nerves are of course sub- ject to palsy. The cellular tissue of the face is abundant, vascular, mingled generally with more or less fat, and in some places, as on the eyelids, is so lax as to be peculiarly liable to infiltration with fluids. Sometimes it becomes emphyse- matous, in cases of wounds of the frontal sinuses and larynx. It is easily affected by erysipelas, and is the common seat of abscesses, which, however, as there is no fascia to confine the matter, rarely attain any considerable size, but soon make their way towards the surface of the skin. When, indeed, the pus forms on the forehead between the muscles and the pericra- nium, or beneath the fascia covering the parotid gland, or beneath that investing the masseter and posterior part of the buccinator muscles, the matter being more confined is longer in arriving at the surface, and is productive of more pain than in the former instance. En- cysted tumours are not unfrequently formed in this structure of the face. The skin of the face, from its vascularity and the almost homogeneous mass which it forms with the subjacent tissues, readily unites after incised wounds, and hence the success which has attended the attempts at reparation of some parts of this region, such as the nose, cheek, and lips; the extensibility of the skin also favours such operations. Punctured and con- tused wounds of the face are apt to produce erysipelas when they affect those parts where the cellular tissue is most dense, as on the nose and the prominence of the cheek. Abscesses are the more common result where the cellular tissue is looser. The skin of the face becomes swollen and thickened in some complaints which attack it, such as scrofula, which produ- ces enlargement of the lips and nose, and ele- phantiasis, cancer, and a few other diseases which affect it more permanently. It is sub- ject also to freckles, stains, and discolorations of various kinds, enlargement, inflammation, and induration of its follicles; to a variety of cutaneous eruptions; to ulcerations from scro- fula, scirrhus, lupus, 8cc. which frequently make great ravages not only in the soft parts of the face, but even in the bones; to tubercles, warts, tumours, and anomalous growths of various kinds; and finally to boils. Its vas- cularity renders it more liable than in other parts of the body to receive the impression of small-pox pustules. Like the bones, the soft parts of the face are subject to congenital mal- formation. 1. Its apertures may be closed more or less firmly ; this happens with the eye- lids, nostrils, and lips. 2. There may be de- fects of growth, as fissures in the lips, or hare- lip, which may be single or double, and exist alone or in combination with fissures of the palate. The fissure may vary in depth, some- times, in the upper lip, extending into one of the nostrils, and at others only affecting the border of the lip. Congenital cleft of the lower lip is very rare, and is never combined with fissure of the bone. The nose is sometimes fissured, presenting no cartilaginous septum, and but one large orifice or nostril. Occasion- ally a congenital fissure has been observed in the cheek. The abnormal conditions of the teeth, the orbits and their contents, of the lachrymal apparatus, and of the cavities of the nose and mouth, will be found under the seve- ral articles on these subjects. For the BIBLIOGRAPHY of this article, see Anatomy (Introduction). (R. Partridge.) FASCIA, (in general anatomy,) (Binde, se/iinge Sc/ieide, Flechsenhdute, Germ.) This term is applied to certain membranous expan- sions, existing in various regions of the body, and forming coverings to particular parts. These expansions are composed either of cellu- lar tissue, more or less condensed, or of fibrous tissue, the former being the cellular fascia, the latter the aponeuroses or aponeurotic fascia. The structure and connexions of a considerable number of the fascia? are highly interesting, as well with reference to correct diagnosis and prognosis in surgical disease, as in regard to the mode of proceeding in various operations. 1. Cellular fascia.—These are lamellae of cellular membrane of variable density, some- times loaded with fat, at other times totally devoid of it The best example of this form of fascia is the layer of cellular membrane which is immediately subjacent to the subcutaneous cellular tissue all over the body, and in most places so intimately connected with it as to be inseparable; these in fact form but one mem- brane, which, although essentially the same everywhere, yet exhibits characters peculiar almost to each region of the body; it is gene- rally known under the name of the superficial fascia. Although this fascia is universal, there are, nevertheless, certain regions where, from its greater importance, it has been more care- fully examined than in others, and tcwhich we may best refer in order to investigate its pecu- liar characters. Of these regions those of the abdomen and the neck stand pre-eminent; here this fascia constitutes a distinct membranif'orm expansion, and the principal variety it pre- sents in different subjects is as regards the greater or less quantity of fat deposited in it. Where a tendinous or fibrous expansion does not lie immediately under it, this fascia sends processes from its deep surface to invest the subjacent muscles and other parts; this is very manifest in the case of the fascia of the neck ; and in general it may be stated that the super- ficial fascia has a more or less intimate connec- tion with the proper cellular covering of sub- jacent organs, whether muscles or tendon>