ORGAN OF HEARING. 561 of the long process. In the incus the first point of ossification occurs in the longer crus near the body, and from this point it extends during the fourth and fifth months, so far that the whole is ossified with the exception of the point of the short process. The long crus Meckel always found completely ossified, whilst the short crus was still cartilaginous. The stapes is still cartilaginous when ossi- fication has made considerable progress in the other two bones. According to Meckel ossi- fication does not commence at any determinate point of the stapes; only he never observed it first on the head. According to Rathke there are three particular nuclei, one for each of the sides of the triangle which the stapes repre- sents. The opening between the crura of the stapes is at first very inconsiderable,—a condition analogous to what is found permanent in the Cetacea, &c. The ossicles are not unfrequently irregular in their form, size, and situation. They may even be wanting. The stapes, as it is the last formed, presents the most numerous and most varied malformations ; the malleus the fewest. The stapes has been found, by Tiedemann, as it is at first, like a pyramid without any opening ; again, it has been found with but a very small opening, or presenting indeed the crura, but the space between them filled up by a thin plate of bone. Only one crus has been found rising from the middle of the base in the form of a slender pedicle of bone as in the bird, and presenting no trace of an articular cavity for the reception of the lenticular pro- cess of the incus, &c. A remarkable circumstance connected with the early formation of the malleus is the existence, as Meckel* first observed, of a straight cartilaginous process, having the shape of a very elongated cone, which ex- tends from the anterior part of the head of the malleus to the place where the two halves of the lower jaw unite in front. The cartilaginous process passes out of the cavity of the tympanum between the petrous bone and tympanic ring. This process, though having much the same situation, must not be confounded with the processus gracilis. The former lies above the latter, and both parts are quite distinct from each other. Moreover the cartilaginous process never ossifies, but dis- appears in the eighth month. Huschkef has discovered a similar process extending be- tween the short crus of the incus and the supe- rior horn of the hyoid bone through the me- dium of the styloid process. * Op. cit. torn. iii. p. 199. s. 1948. See also Huschke Beitrage zur Physiologie und Natur- gescliichte, p. 48. Taf. ii. Fig. 1. Isis von Oken, 1833. Heft. vii. p. 678. Serres, Annales des Sciences Naturelles, 1827, p. 112. Weber, Hilde- brandt's Anatomie, 4te. Ausgabe. Band. iv. p. 47. Rathke, op. cit. p. 122, and Valentin, op. cit. p. 214. + Isis von Oken, loc. cit. and Valentin, op. et loc. cit. VOL. II. i i > . >* ■/ >' "v ;"! v.' ' 111 * J\ -< The most interesting irregular formation of the malleus is what appears to be connected in some manner with the above described early condition of the malleus and incus. Such cases are related by Hyrtl,* Heusinger,f and Hesselbach.J 2. Of the external ear.—The external ear soon disappears in the animal series. It is the last part of the apparatus of hearing which makes its appearance in the human embryo. It is very subject to irregular deve- lopment. It is only about the middle of the second month that a trace of it can be ob- served. It is at first merely a slight elevation of the skin, broad above, narrow below. In the middle of this elevation is a longitudinal fissure of the same form, which is narrower and at the same time deeper from above downwards. The prominence soon becomes more elevated and thinner at its posterior part, and projects above the surface of the side of the head, from which circumstance the middle depression is a little exposed. At the same time or soon after, the anterior part of the prominence is found divided into two halves by a transverse fissure running forwards; the inferior half is the antitragus, and the supe- rior the commencement of the helix. At the same time this anterior part of the external ear rises also, and the posterior spreads more out. In the third month the anthelix and tragus are developed ; the concha is not yet perfectly dis- tinct; it is only indicated by the middle de- pression. In the fourth and fifth month the hollow of the concha appears, and is completely formed in the sixth. The lobule is the last part which presents itself. The cartilage begins to be formed in the third month, but is developed slowly. To- wards the end of pregnancy, though thicker, harder, and firmer, it is still incomplete. The cartilaginous portion of the auditory passage as well as the auricle is at first pro- portionally much smaller than afterwards. The skin lining the auditory passage is softer and thicker than in the adult, and is covered with a thickly set down. In the foetus the auditory passage is rounder, straighter, and shorter than in the adult. The auricles may not be formed at all, or their development may be so arrested that they shall be represented merely by unshapely folds of skin with or without cartilage, or they may deviate more or less from their usual form, size, and situation. Imperfect formation of the auricle is frequently accompanied by ab- sence or closure of the auditory passage. Pro- fessor Samuel Cooper mentions the case of a child in which there was not the slightest trace either of external ear or auditory passage. * Op. et loc. cit. f Specimen mala; conformationis organorum auditus human! rarissimum et memoratu dignis- simum, cum tvibus tabulis aeri incisis. Jenae, 1824. % Beschreibung der pathologischen Priiparate, welche in der kbniglichen anatomischen Anstalt zu VVurzburg aufbewahit werden. Giessen, 1824. 2 P