FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. 303 division of the fifth are voluntary nerves to the pterygoid, the masseter, the temporal, and buccinator muscles." Here again he has not reached the conclusion, though he has fallen but little short of it, and though, as in the former instance with regard to sensation, he has been the first to announce a restriction of the motor properties of the nerve to particular branches. The opinion expressed by Bell, in June 1823, has been already quoted, and from it we are bound to admit, that then at least he recognised the distinction at present acknow- ledged with reference to the appropriate function of the ganglionic and non-ganglionic portions. But in Mayo's Commentaries for July 1823, the conclusion is for the first time expressly stated thus:—" In the last paper of the preceding number, I mentioned that the division of the supra-orbital, infra-orbital, and inferior max- illary nerves, at the points where they emerge from their canals upon the face, produces loss of sensation, and of that alone, in the corres- ponding parts or the face. I have since, after the division of the fourth branch which emerges on the face,—namely, that which joins the portio dura,—ascertained that this branch like- wise is a nerve of sensation, inasmuch as the cheek loses sensation upon its division. I mentioned in addition that I concluded that other branches of the fifth nerve, from their distribution, are voluntary nerves. Now it is well known that the fifth nerve at its origin consists of two portions ; a larger part, which alone enters the Gasserian ganglion, and ano- ther smaller, which does not enter, but passes below the ganglion to join itself with the third division of the fifth. Towards the close of last summer I endeavoured to trace the final distribution of this small portion in the ass, and succeeded in making out that it furnishes those branches, which are. distributed exclu- sively to muscles : I have since ascertained that in the human body precisely the same distribution exists. But the iemaining branches of the fifth are proved to be nerves of sensation ; thus it appears that the fifth nerve consists of two portions, one of which has no ganglion, and is a nerve of voluntary motion (and pro- bably of muscular sensation); and another, which passes through a ganglion, and furnishes branches, which are exclusively nerves of the special senses." We return now to the question of the pro- perties of the non-ganglionic portion of the fifth nerve. It has been stated that Mayo was the first to announce the restriction of the voluntary influence of the fifth to certain branches, and that he was led to this conclu- sion from the observation of the fact that certain branches of the nerve ate distributed exclusively to muscles. These muscles he has stated, in the first part of his Commentaries, to be the pterygoid, the masseter, the temporal, and buccinator; to which he has added, in his second part, the circumflexus palati; by dis- section he ascertained that as well in man as in the ass, the lesser portion of the nerve " fur- nishes those branches which are distributed ex- clusively to muscles;" and having already determined that the ganglionic portions of the nerve are destined exclusively to sensation, he came to the conclusion that the non-ganglionic portion is a nerve of voluntary motion. His first conclusion upon this point he himself states to have " involved a trifling error : the pterygoid, masseter, and temporal muscles are indeed exclusively supplied by the fifth, and therefore, without doubt, the branches so dis- tributed are voluntary nerves, but the bucci- nator receives branches from the portio dura as well, and I have found subsequently, that pinching the branch of the fifth that perforates the muscle, produces no action in it: and in accordance with this view he writes in his Physiology,* " I was led to observe that there were muscles which received no branches from any nerve but the fifth ; these muscles are the masseter, the temporal, the two pterygoids, and the circumflexus palati. After some care- ful dissection, I made out that the smaller fasciculus of the fifth is entirely consumed upon the supply of the muscles 1 have named." The determination of the constitution and function of the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve has become a matter of greater importance since the publication of Bell's work on the Nervous System in 1830. In it he says, " I am particular in re-stating this, because from time to time it has been reported that I had abandoned my original opinions, whereas every thing has tended to confirm them." Now, it will be remembered that Bell's original opinion is, that the muscles of the face are endowed with two powers, a volun- tary one, dependent on the fifth nerve, and an involuntary respiratory one, dependent on the portio dura; also, that in the first instance he attributed the voluntary power of these muscles to the facial branches of the fifth, but that he had abandoned that idea, and acknowledged that what he had attributed to loss of motion was in fact due to loss of sensation. In the work adverted to he has taken new ground, and at the same time reiterates his first opinion with regard to the existence of the two distinct contractile powers in the muscles of the face, and attributes to the buccal nerve that influence over their voluntary motion which he had before referred to the infra-orbital, &c. Thus, " but finding that the connexion between the motor root and the superior maxillary nerve proved to be only by cellular texture, and con- sidering the affirmation of M. Magendie and those who followed him, that the infra-orbitary branch had no influence upon the lips, I pro- secuted with more interest the ramus buccinalis labialis,"—the buccal nerve,—" and nobody, I presume, will doubt that the distribution of this division confirms the notions drawn from the anatomy of the trunk, not only that the fifth nerve is the manducatory nerve as it belongs to the muscles of the jaws, but also that it is distributed to the muscles of the cheek and lips to bring them into correspondence with the motions of the jaws." To the point at issue the writer has directed particular atten- * 1833, p. 261.