509 BONES OF THE HAND. with the cuneiform bone demands a separate consideration. A plane oval surface on the posterior part of the pisiform is articulated with a corresponding one on the palmar aspect of the cuneiform, and several strong ligaments strengthen the joint. Two lateral ligaments pass from the pisiform to the cuneiform bone, the internal, which is also anterior, being of considerable strength. This bone is further connected to the unciform by strong ligament- ous fibres; and a strong bundle, which bears the same relation to the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris as the ligamenturn patella? does to the tendon of the rectus femoris, extends to the carpal extremity of the fifth metacarpal bone. This joint is provided with a loose synovial membrane; its motions are those of gliding in the directions of the axis of the articular surfaces. Carpo-metacarpal joints.—These are very strong articulations, and, with the exception of the first and fifth, enjoy a very limited extent of motion. The four internal ones are nearly plamform arthrodiee, restricted on the palmar and dorsal surfaces by strong and short liga- ments (palmar and dorsal ligaments), the latter being much better developed. The second metacarpal bone is articulated with the trapezoid in an extremely firm manner: its palmar liga- ment extends from the extremity of the meta- carpal bone to the trapezium internal to the ridge, and covered by the tendon of the radial flexor of the wrist. There are three dorsal ligaments, an external attached to the trapezium, and an internal to the os magnum. These two ligaments are oblique in their direction; the third or middle one is vertical and attached to the trapezoid. The third metacarpal bone is arti- culated with the os magnum: here we find three strong palmar ligaments, an external one which extends obliquely outwards to the trape- zium, an internal one which passes in front of the carpal extremity of the fourth metacarpal bone, adhering to it, and inserted into the unciform and the fifth metacarpal bone, and a middle one which passes vertically to the os magnum. This joint has two dorsal ligaments, both inserted into the os magnum. The fourth metacarpal bone is articulated with the radial portion of the inferior articular surface, and with a very small portion of the os magnum; it has a single palmar and dorsal ligament. The fifth metacarpal bone is articulated with the outer part of the inferior surface of the unciform; this surface is convex transversely and concave from befdre backwards, while that on the metacarpal bone is convex from before backwards and concave transversely. The proper ligaments of this joint are very feeble, being merely a few fibres attached to the ante- rior and posterior surfaces of the synovial mem- brane. The joint, however, is protected in front by the prominence of the unciform pro- cess, which descends a little below the line of the articulation, and limits the forward motion of the carpal extremity of the bone; and pos- teriorly it is strengthened by the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris, while its motion ulnad is restricted by the strong internal palmar liga- ment of the third metacarpal bone, which we have already described as passing from that bone to the fifth metacarpal and the unciform bones. The fifth carpo-metacarpal articulation approaches in many particulars to the first; it has a greater latitude of motion than the three immediately preceding it, and its articular sur- faces very much resemble those of the first. Besides the palmar and dorsal ligaments already described, these metarearpal bones are very firmly connected to each other by short but strong ligaments, extending transversely from one to the other on the palmar and dorsal aspects. A common synovial membrane extends throughout the four joints above described ; this synovial membrane is continuous with that between the two rows of carpal bones. The digital extremities of the four inner metacarpal bones are connected by their trans- verse ligaments situated at the palmar surface and extending from one to the other. Curpo-metucurpal joints of the thumb.—The main feature by which this articulation is dis- tinguished from the other carpo-metacarpal joints is its great mobility. It is an arthrodia, and in many particulars resembles very much the sterno-clavicular joint. The trapezium presents a surface concave from within out- wards, and convex from before backwards, that on the metacarpal bone being convex in the transverse, and concave in the antero-pos- terior direction. The ligamentous apparatus of this joint has "very much the appearance of the capsular ligament of an enarthrosis, and has indeed been described as such by many anatomists; but on a careful examination it will be found to consist of separate bundles of ligament placed at those situations in which the greatest tendency to displacement exists in the various motions of the joint. Four principal bundles may be described : one very thick and strong, situated at the posterior and outer part of the joint, (tig. dorsale, Weitbr.) extending from the metacarpal bone to a prominent tubercle on the outer part of the dorsal surface of the trapezium; this ligament limits flexion of the joint. A second ligament is situated directly in front of the joint, (lig. palmare, Weitbr.) is inserted into the trapezium immediately internal to its prominence; extension is limited by this ligament. The third and fourth bundles (lig- laterale ext. et int. Weitbr.) are situ- ated on the radial and ulnar sides of the joint: they are less distinct as well as less strong than those last described. That on the ulnar side is considerably the stronger; it limits abduc- tion of the thumb, whilst that on the radial side limits adduction. The synovial membrane of this joint is lax; it is perfectly distinct from the general syno- vial membrane of the other carpo-metacarpal articulations. Motions of the carpo-metacarpal joints.— In the second, third, and fourth joints the motions are limited to a very slight, and during life scarcely appreciable gliding forwards or backwards: the strong transverse ligaments,