531 ORGAN OF HEARING. Of the vertical, one is anterior and superior, the other posterior and inf erior. The horizon- tal is external. Superior vertical semicircular canal, canalis semicircularis verticalis superior. The superior vertical semicircular canal has its arch directed upwards, and its extremities, which are more widely divergent than those of either of the other two semicircular canals, downwards. Fol- lowed from its outer extremity, it describes its curve from without and upwards, then down- wards and inwards, with an inclination from before backwards,—in a word, across the petrous bone. The convexity of the curve of this semi- circular canal can always be recognized on the upper surface of the petrous bone. The con- cavity of it is free in the foetus and in the adult of some of the lower animals, as the dog, hare, &c. The inner extremity of the superior vertical semicircular canal and the upper extremity of the posterior vertical unite to form a common canal, canalis communis, which is about one- eighth of an inch long, and somewhat wider than either of the two which unite to form it. Posterior vertical semicircular canal, canalis semicircularis verticalis posterior. Leaving the common canal, the posterior vertical semicircu- lar canal describes its curve parallel to the inner and posterior surface of the petrous bone, perpendicularly from above backwards, then downwards and forwards. The convexity of the curve is thus directed backwards and slightly outwards, its extremities forwards and inwards. Horizontal semicircular canal, canalis semi- circularis horizontalis. This is the shortest of the three canals ; traced from its anterior extre- mity, which is close to that of the superior ver- tical, it curves outwards and backwards, then inwards and forwards. Its convexity is out- wards, its extremities directed inwards. We described in the vestibule three horns, into the posterior and into the superior of which the semicircular canals opened. In the superior horn is observed the orifice of the ex- ternal extremity of the superior vertical semi- circular canal, and immediately below that and above the fenestra vestibuli, the orifice of the anterior extremity of the horizontal semicircular canal. Both of these orifices are dilated into ampullae. In the posterior horn is the orifice of the canal common to the two vertical semi- circular canals. Below and in front of this orifice is the opening of the inferior extremity of the posterior vertical semicircular canal. Above the latter and immediately outside the former is the opening of the posterior extremity of the horizontal. Of all these orifices in the posterior horn, that of the lower extremity of the posterior vertical semicircular canal is the only one which is dilated into an ampulla. There are thus three ampullary dilatations, one at the outer extremity of the superior verti- cal semicircular canal, a second at the anterior extremity of the horizontal, and the third at the lower extremity of the posterior vertical. In the lower and anterior wall of the ampullary sinus of the posterior vertical semicircular canal is a small sieve-like spot indicating the entrance of nervous filaments. The cochlea, (cochlea; Fr. le limagon; Germ. die Schnecke.)— The cochlea does not exist in all its perfection except in the Mammifera. In birds it is in a very rudimentary state, but it is easy to trace parts analogous to what we find in the Mammifera. In regard to frequency of occurrence in the animal series, the cochlea does not stand next to the semicircular canals ; the tympanum is found in a greater number of animals. The cochlea forms the anterior part of the labyrinth, and is, perhaps of all the parts of the ear, that of which it is the most difficult to give, either by descriptions or delineations, a correct idea. If we can figure to ourselves a tube tapering towards one extremity where it ends in a cul-de-sac, and coiled, like the shell of a snail, round an axis or central pillar; and if we suppose this tube subdivided into two passages by a thin partition running throughout its length, and of course spirally round the axis, we shall have some conception of the disposition of the cochlea. The tube of which the cochlea is composed, canalis spiralis cochlea, is about an inch and a half long, about one-tenth of an inch in dia- meter at its commencement, and about one- twentieth of an inch at its termination. It describes two turns and a half, and that in a direction from below upwards—from left to right in the right ear, and from right to left in the left ear. The apex of the coil, which is also the apex of the tube itself, is directed forwards and outwards. The commencement of the first turn of the cochlea forms an eminence towards the cavity of the tympanum, called the pro- montory. The second turn lies at its com- mencement within the first, and only towards its termination rises decidedly above the level of it. By the base of the tube the cochlea is connected with the vestibule. The cul-de-sac at the apex forms a sort of vaulted roof called cupola. The axis, or central pillar, modiolus s. colu- mella cochlea. The first turn of the cochlea takes a wider circular sweep than the rest, a sweep having an average diameter of a quarter of an inch, and is separated from the second turn by the interposition of a soft bony sub- stance, which extends also a little way between the second and third. The axis, or central pillar, as has been pointed out by Ilg,* is nothing more than the internal walls of the tube of the cochlea and the central space circumscribed by their turns, in which space the filaments of the cochlear nerve, running in small bony canals, are contained. Now in con- sequence of the wide sweep the first turn of the cochlea takes in comparison with the rest, the axis is very thick, about one-seventh of an inch, where it is surrounded by the first turn, and rapidly becomes thinner from the second onwards to its termination. The last part of it is in fact formed merely by the fold which * Einige anatomische Beobachtungen, etc. Prag. 1821, p. 7. 2 N 2