777 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE HIP-JOINT. concavity superiorly, corresponding to the junction of the pubis and ilium, and a similar one inferiorly and externally, corresponding to the junction of the ilium and ischium. These concavities are separated by intervening con- vexities, and hence the margin of the acetabu- lum has the appearance of a waving line. Immediately within the margin of the acetabu- lum we perceive a broad band of smooth bone (facies lunatu) covered in the recent state by articular cartilage, about seven-eighths of an inch wide at its lower portion, or oppo- site the ischium, an inch and a quarter to an inch and a half superiorly and externally, where it corresponds to the ilium, and from a quarter to half an inch internally and superiorly at the pubis. This band terminates at each extremity of the notch already described in a process (cornu), the superior of which looks downwards, outwards, and backwards, whilst the inferior, more prominent than the superior, projects towards the notch, forming a kind of gutter between its superior margin, and the deepest part of the notch. Internal to this band, there is a depression, as it were a cavity within the acetabulum, rough and uneven, uninvested by cartilage in the recent state, being continuous with the notch leading towards the obturator foramen. This is the fovea or sinus, and lodges a quantity of fatty cellular tissue formerly termed glands of Havers, from their having been first described by that anatomist. On the upper and lower portions of this inner cavity, various inequalities and foramina are seen, the latter being for the pas- sage of the nutritious vessels of the bone, which is very thin at this point, so much so in- deed, that if held up to the light, it will be found transparent. The depth of the acetabu- lum is not uniform in its different regions. This variety corresponds in a great measure to the breadth of the smooth band of bone (fades lunata) already described. Where this is broadest, the cavity possesses the great- est depth, and where it is entirely absent, the cavity is very superficial, as opposite the notch. The non-articular circumference of the lip of the acetabulum is rough and marked by foramina for the passage of nutritious vessels, and also for the attachment of the capsular ligament. The head of the femur, representing about three-fourths of a sphere, is supported and con- nected to the shaft of that bone at an angle varying with age, by a constricted and flattened process termed the neck. A waving prominent line surrounds the head at its junction with the neck, and may be regarded as the boundary line between these two parts, leaving on its inner side the articular surface of the head of the femur, which is smooth, having in the adult its greater convexity directed upwards and inwards. At one point, however, the ar- ticular character of this surface is interrupted by a depression, which is not covered with carti- lage in the recent state. This depression, situ- ated immediately behind and below the point through which the axis of the head of the bone would pass, gives insertion to the ligamentum teres. 2. The cartilage.—That portion of the sur- face of the acetabulum which corresponds to the facies lunata is alone invested by articu- lar cartilage. This cartilaginous layer is thick- est at its external circumference, becoming gradually thinner as it proceeds internally. The head of the femur, on the other hand, is nearly entirely incrusted with cartilage, which, as is usual on convex surfaces, is thickest towards its centre, where it is interrupted by the depression for the ligamentum teres, and be- comes progressively thinner towards the circum- ference. 3. Fibro-cartilage.—Immediately surround- ing the margin of the acetabulum is a fibro- cartilaginous ring about three lines broad, tri- angular in shape, having its base attached to the brim of the cavity, whilst its apex is free. This is the so-called cotyloid ligament (ligamen- tum cotyloideum, fibro-cartilagineum, labium cartilugineum acetabuli.) It clearly belongs to the fibro-cartilages of circumference, and is the counterpart of the glenoid ligament in the shoulder-joint (see Fibro-cartilage), and as it completely removes the irregular character of the margin of the acetabulum, it will be found to be deepest where it corresponds to the concavities of the acetabular border. Its free border is sharp, and directed inwards, i. e., towards the centre of the joint, narrowing the orifice of the acetabulum, at the same time that it increases the depth of that cavity. Its fixed margin constitutes its base, and is connected to the brim of the acetabulum; its external sur- face covered by synovial membrane corres- ponds to the capsular ligament, whilst its inter- nal, also covered by synovial membrane, em- braces the head of the femur. Having arrived at the notch, it is continued over each cornu of the facies lunata, retaining somewhat of its form, but much diminished in dimensions, and having assumed much more the appearance of pure cartilage than of fibro-cartilage. It ceases at the point at which the concave margin of the facies lunata becomes blended with the con- vexity of each cornu. It is not stretched across the notch as some anatomists erroneously describe it. The whole extent of this fibro- cartilage, then, corresponds exactly to the con- vex margin of the facies lunata. 4. Ligaments.—The notch of the acetabu- lum is converted into a foramen, strengthened and in a great degree closed by ligamentous fibres arranged in two layers, and extended from the superior to the inferior cornu. The whole forms the ligamentum transversale aceta- buli of Winslow. Of these the external and deepest arises from the superior, and is inserted into the inferior cornu of the acetabulum. The external surface of this layer, directed obliquely backwards towards the cavity of the acetabulum, corresponds and gives attachment to the liga- mentum teres. Its internal surface is applied to the external layer; its external margin is attached to the capsular ligament, and its inter- nal superiorly to the pubis, but inferiorly it is