GASTEROPODA. 391 Fig. 190. the exception of the Scutibranchiate and some of the Cyclobranchiate orders, the heart is single, consisting of an auricular and ventri- cular cavity, and is interposed between the branchial or pulmonary vessels and the system, receiving the aerated blood from the respiratory organs, and propelling it through the body. The heart of Aplysia (fig. 191, e, g) or of the Snail, (fig. 190, o, p) will exemplify its ordi- nary structure. The auricle varies slightly in shape in different genera, but is always ex- tremely thin and pellucid, containing in its coats muscular bands of great delicacy. The ventricle is provided with stronger walls, and is generally separated from the auricle by a valve, formed of two pieces. The heart is en- closed in a pericardium, but its position is re- gulated by that of the branchiae; and from the great diversity of arrangement which we have found the latter to present, a corresponding want of uniformity in the locality which the heart occupies may be readily expected. We shall select two forms of the respiratory organ as examples of the variable position of the heart, and as illustrations of the usual distribu- tion of the bloodvessels, viz. the Snail, (vide Circulation, fig. 322, and the Doris, fig. 321,) and afterwards notice the principal aber- rations from the ordinary disposition. In the Snail, the blood derived from the whole body is brought by great veins, performing the func- tions both of the vena cava and of a pulmonary artery, to the plexus of vessels lining the floor of the respiratory cavity ; after here undergoing the needful aeration, it enters the heart, from whence it is driven into the aorta. The aorta immediately divides into two trunks, one dis- tributed to the liver, the intestine, and the ovary; the other supplying the stomach, the oral apparatus, the organs of generation, and the foot. In the Slug the arteries are perfectly white and opaque, and their ramifications, which may be traced with great readiness, are extremely beautiful. In Doris (fig. 321) the heart is, in conse- quence of the position of the branchiae around the anus, removed quite to the posterior extre- mity of the body. The blood derived from all parts of the body is conducted by large veins to the respiratory organs; the pulmonary arte- ries which return it from thence unite into a circular vessel (b, b), surrounding the anus, and from this arise two vessels, emptying them- selves into the auricle. The aorta, on issuing from the heart, divides into two large vessels, the first supplying the intestinal canal, stomach, and duodenum, the organs of generation, the foot, and the mouth; whilst the other large trunk is entirely distributed to the liver. In Tritoniu the heart is placed near the centre of the body, and the auiicle itself resem- bles a cylindrical vessel placed transversely