HERMAPHRODITISM. 691 Malformed males have been more often mis- taken for females than the reverse. The varieties of malformation in persons actually male, that are liable to lead to mistakes with regard to their true sex, appear to be, 1st, extrophy or extroversion of the urinary bladder; 2d, ad- hesion of the inferior surface of the penis to the scrotum; and 3d, and principally, fissure of the inferior part of the urethra and of the scrotum and perinaeum. 1. Extroversion of the urinary bladder.— For a full description of this malformation we must refer to the articles Bladder and Mon- strosity. This malformation is known to occur more frequently in the male than in the female, and when present in the former it has occasionally given rise to a supposition of her- maphroditism, the red fungous mass formed by the mucous membrane of the protruded posterior wall of the bladder, and situated above the pubis, having been mistaken for the female vulva,—an error which has probably been the more readily committed from the uterus and seminal ducts, and sometimes also, as in an instance described by A. Fraenkel,* a part of the intestinal canal opening upon the surface of the exposed poition of bladder. In some instances of this malformation occurring in man, the external male sexual organs are very imperfectly formed, or can scarcely be said to be at all present. In other cases the scrotum is of the natural form, with the two testicles in it; and the penis is of considerable size, though almost always fissured on its upper surface from the epispadic or open state of the urethra. An example of supposed hermaphroditic malformation briefly described by Ruerfe,h which seems referable to this variety will be sufficient to illustrate it. " In the year 1519 an hermaphrodite or androgynus," he remarks, " was born at Zurich, perfectly formed from the umbilicus upwards, but having at this part a red mass of flesh, beneath which were the female genitals, and also under and in their normal situation those of the male." 2. Adhesion of the inferior surface of the penis to the scrotum by a band of integuments. —This state of parts has occasionally given rise to the idea of hermaphroditism, the penis being so bound down as not to admit of erec- tion, and the urine passing in a direction downwards, so as to imitate the flow of it from the female parts. In a boy of seven years of age regarding whom Brand I was consulted, the penis was confined in this manner to the scrotum by abnormal adhesions. He had been baptized and reared as a girl, but by a slight incision the adherent organ was liberated, and the parents were convinced of the mistake that they had committed in regard to the sex of their child. The difficulty of determining the true • De Organorum Generationis Deform. Rarissi- ma, Berlin, 1825, with a plate. t De Conceptu et Generatione Hominis, p. 44. X Case of a boy who had been mistaken for a girl. London, 1788. sex of the boy was increased by the testicles not having descended into the scrotum. Wrisberg* mentions two similar instances in persons of the respective ages of nineteen and forty-six. He relieved the adherent penis in the first case by operation. 3. Fissure of the inferior part of the ure- thra, perinaum, fyc.—This species of mal- formation, which has perhaps more frequently than any other given rise to the idea of the person affected with it being the subject of hermaphroditism, evidently consists in an arrest of the development of the external male sexual parts. At an early stage of the development of the embryo, the various central sexual organs are, like all the other single organs situated on the median line of the body, found to be composed of two separate and similar halves, divided from each other by a vertical fissure, which, after the originally blind extremity of the intes- tinal canal has opened upon the perineum, forms a common aperture or cloaca for the intestinal canal, and also for the urinary and genital apparatus, both of which are, in their primary origin, prolongations from the lower part of that canal. After a time, (about the second month in the human embryo,) the opposite sides of this cloaca gradually approxi- mate, and throw out two corresponding folds, which by their union constitute a septum that separates the rectum from the canal or portion of the fissure, that still remains common to the urinary and generative organs; and, in the same way, by two similar and more anterior folds, the urethra of the female, and the pelvic portion of that of the male is subsequently produced. After this in the female the process of median reunion does not proceed further, and the primary perinatal fissure remains, form- ing the vulva and vagina. In the male, how- ever, the development, when normal, goes on to a greater extent, and the sides of the opening become so far united as ultimately to leave only the comparatively contracted canal of the urethra to serve as a common passage for both the internal urinary and genital organs; and the situation of the line of junction of the opposite sides of the original perineal cleft remains still marked out in the adult, by the raphe existing in the median line of the scrotum. The two lateral parts of the female clitoris unite together into one solid body, having on its under sur- face a slight groove or channel, indicative of the line of conjunction of its two component parts; and the urethra is left to open at the root of this imperforated organ. In the male, on the contrary, the two primitive halves of the penis, consolidated together at an early stage along the course of their upper surfaces, come, in the progress of development, to unite inferiorly in such a manner with one another as to form a tubular prolongation of the pelvic portion of the canal of the urethra, which is gradually extended forwards along the body of the penis and ultimately through its glans. Many of the malformations to which the * Comment. Med. &c. Arg. p. 534. 2 Z 2