726 HERMAPHRODITISM. reproductive organs pointed out by the son is in its general principles correct. At the same time we would here remark that we conceive the doctrine would have been founded more on truth if the influence of the nervous branches supplying the different reproductive organs had been taken into account along with that of their arterial vessels, because, as we shall point out when speaking of the causes of her- maphroditism, there appears to be some con- nection between the state of the nervous sys- tem and the degree or condition of sexual de- velopment. The consideration of the preceding ana- logies in structure between the male and female organs is interesting in itself, and, as far as relates to our present subject, important in this respect, that it enables us in some degree to understand how it happens that, without any actual monstrous duplicity, we should some- times find, in an organization essentially male, one or more of the genital organs absent and replaced by an imperfect or neutral organ, or by the corresponding organ of the opposite sex, and vice versa ; inasmuch as it shews us that the moulds in which the analogous organs of the two sexes are formed are originally the same. Hence there is no difficulty in con- ceiving that, in the body of the same individual, the primitive structural elements of these parts should occasionally, in one or more points or segments, take on, in the process of development, a different sexual type from that which they assume at other points. Indeed some physi- ologists, as we shall immediately see, deny that the most complete hermaphroditic malfor- mations ever consist of anything except such a want of conformity between the sexual type of different portions of the reproductive appa- ratus. If each of the six segments (and we believe that their number might be shewn to be really greater than this,) is thus an independent cen- tre of development in the formation of the sexual apparatus, and is consequently liable also in abnormal cases to have its own parti- cular malformations, and to assume, either alone or along with some of the other seg- ments, a sexual type different from the re- mainder, it is evident that we may have as many varieties of true hermaphroditism, with- out any real duplicity, as it is possible to con- ceive differences of arrangements among these six segments. Again, however, one or more of these segments may preserve from a deve- lopment its original indeterminate or neutral sexual type, while the others are variously formed either upon one or upon both sexual types; or one or more of the segments may, by a true malformation by duplicity, have evolved within them the corresponding organs of the two sexes; and if we consider the dif- ferent arrangements of double and single sexual parts that might thus occur in the six separate segments, we may gain some idea of the great diversities of structure in the sexual parts that are liable to be met with in instances of true hermaphroditism. The above forms, as it appears to us, the most sound and rational solution of the nature and origin of many forms of true hermaphro- ditism which physiological science is capable of affording, upon our present limited know- ledge of the laws of development; and its application to the explanation of the different varieties of lateral, transverse, and vertical her- maphroditism is so obvious as only to be required to be alluded to. It offers to us, however, no insight into the probable origin of those varieties of double hermaphroditism in which there is an actual co-existence upon one or upon both sides of the body, or, in other words, in the same segment of the sexual apparatus, of both the corresponding male and female organs. We can only refer all such instances to the laws which regulate the occa- sional production of local duplicities indiffe- rent other organs of single bodies, and at the same time confess our present ignorance of what these laws are. We know that various individual muscles, nerves, &c. are not unfre- quently found double, and that in the internal organs of the body examples of duplicity in individual viscera are occasionally, though rarely, observed in the heart, tongue, trachea, oesophagus, intestinal canal, &c. In the several organs composing the reproductive apparatus, instances of similar duplicity would seem to be even more common than among any other of the viscera. Examples of three mamma? upon the same person are mentioned by Bartholin,* Borelli,-f Lanzoni,I Drejer,§ Robert,|| Petrequin,1f and others;** and cases in which the number of these organs was in- creased to four have been recorded by Faber,+f GardeuXjJt Cabroli,§§ Lamy,|||| Tiedemann,^ Champion,*** Sinclair,-^} ft. Lee,Jtt and Moore.§§§ An instance in which jive mam- ma even existed upon the same woman is re- ported to have been seen by Gorre.|||||| Valen- tin^l^fir and Gunther**** have recorded sup- posed cases of duplicity in the male penis; and Arnaudfttt nas related an example of an ana- logous malformation in the female clitoris. WeberJJJJ met with a double vesiculaseminalis * Acta Med. Hafn. torn. iii. obs. 93. t Ohserv. Kar. cent. i. p. 55. t Eph. Nat. Cm. Dec. ii. Ann. v. obs. 55. § Arch. Gen. de Med. torn. xvii. p. 88. [) J urn. Gen. de Med. torn. c. p. 57. 1] Gazette Medicale for April,) 1837. Three distinc t mammas in a father, and in his three sons aud two daughters. ** Diet, des Sc. Med. torn, xxxiv. p. 529. tt Eph. Nat. Cur. Dec. i. Ann. ii. p. 346. Journ. de Med. de Corvisart, torn, ix, p. 378. 4§ Obs. Anat. vii. (Ill Pantoni Anat. p. 267. *l\ 11 Zeitschrift fur Physiologie, lid.v. s. 110. One case with three, and three with four nipples. In one case the malformation was hereditary. **" Diet, des Sc. Medic, t. xxx. p. 377. See also p. 378. ttt Statistical Account of Scotland, xix. p. 288. tti London Med.-Chirurg.Trans, vol. xxi. p. 266. §§§ Lancet for February 24, 1838. Mill Diet, des Sc. Med. torn, xxxiv. p. 529. Eph. Nat. Cur. Dec. iii. Ann. iii. obs. 77. **** Cohen vom Stein, Halle, 1774, p. 107. fttt Mem. de Chir. torn. i. p. 374. llli Salzburg Mediciuische Zeitung, 1811, s. 188.