HERMAPHRODITISM. 728 greater or less extent both of the male and female sets of sexual elements. This doctrine of the original but temporary double sexed character of all embryos derives, perhaps, its principal support from a source to which Dr. Knox does not advert,—we mean the existence of this as the normal and perma- nent sexual type in most plants and in many of the lower orders of animals. But this argument by analogy certainly cannot by any means be considered as a sufficient basis for the establish- ment of so broad and important a generalization in philosophical anatomy. Dr. Knox himself seems to have been induced to adopt the idea principally because it afforded (when once assumed as a fact) a simple and elegant solution, upon the laws of development, of the occa- sional occurrence of cases of true hermaphro- ditism ; and in doing so, he appears to have proceeded upon the mode in which most such physiological hypotheses have been made, viz. by drawing his premises from his deductions instead of his deductions from his premises. In the present state, however, of anatomical and physiological knowledge, Dr. Knox's hypo- thesis, however ingenious in itself, is one which we cannot subscribe to; for first, it is totally opposed to all the facts which have been ascer- tained, and all the direct observations which have been made by Ratlike, Meckel, Muller, Valentin, and other modern anatomists upon the sexual structure of the embryos of the higher animals in their earliest state; and, secondly, if we were to admit it merely as a probable hypothesis, it is still even in this respect equally as incapable as the old doctrine of sexual unity, of explaining all the cases of malformation by duplicity of the genital organs; for, as we have already shewn, there are some apparently well-authenticated instances of the existence of three or four testicles upon the same man, or three or four ovaries upon the same woman ; and in reference to all such cases we would, if we proceeded upon the same data and the same line of argument as those adopted by Dr. Knox, be obliged to suppose that the original sexual type is not, as he ima- gines, double only as respects the two sexes, but double even as respects each sex, and that all embryos had originally not simply the ele- ments of two, but those of three or four testicles and ovaries. In explaining such cases as those to which we allude, Dr. Knox, on his own doctrine, must of necessity admit the existence of a malformation by duplicity of the sexual organs in question ; and if we grant this in regard to these instances, it is surely unne- cessary to invent a particular and gratuitous hypothesis for the explanation of the analogous anatomical anormalities observed in hermaph- roditism. At present we must, we believe, merely consider the occurrence of anomalous duplicity of the sexual organs, and of various other individual parts of the body, as so many simple empirical facts, of which we cannot, in the existing state of our knowledge, give any satisfactory explanation, or, in other words, which we cannot reduce to any more simple or general fact; though from the success which has attended the labours of many modern investigators in this particular department of anatomy, it seems to us not irrational to hope that ere long we may be enabled to gain much new light upon the question of double her- maphroditism and the whole subject of mal- formation by duplicity. ANATOMICAL DEGREE OF SEXUAL DUPLICITY IN HERMAPHRODITISM. Though the cases which we have brought forward do not present any instances of such perfect hermaphrodites in the human subject or in quadrupeds as those which are represented upon the ancient Greek statues and medals, * or that have been described and delineated by Lycosthenes, Pare, Schenkius, and the older authors on monstrosities, they yet present to us a sufficient number of instances in which, in accordance with the definition we have pre- viously given of true hermaphroditism, there actually co-existed upon the body of the same individual more or fewer of the genital organs both of the male and female. From the relations and size of the bony pelvis, and the fact of the penis and clitoris being re- petitions only in situation and structure and organic connections of each other in the two sexes, it is useless perhaps to expect that we should ever find in any one case all the parts of both sexes present at the same time. For since the male penis is only a magnified condi- tion of the female clitoris, and since both of these organs are connected by the same anatomical relations to the same part of the pelvis, it would almost require some duplicity in the pelvic bones themselves to admit of the simul- taneous presence of both ; and in no authentic case has any approach to their co-existence upon the same individual been observed. Various authors who have written upon the subject of hermaphroditism have gone so far as to endeavour to refer all instances of it to some one or other of those varieties that we have described under the name of spurious. Thus, dogmatizing in a spirit of unphilosophical scepticism, Parsonsf and Hill J have endea- voured to shew that all reputed hermaphro- dites are only malformed females having a preternatural development of the clitoris, and in some instances with the ovaries descended into the labia. Others, on the contrary, as * See Winckelman, Hist, de l'Art, t. i. p. 364; and Caylus, Recueil d'Antiquites, t. iii; Heinrich, Commentatio qua Hermaphroditorum artis antique operibus illustrium, origines et causae explicantur. Hamburg, 1805. IJlumenbach, in his Specimen Hist. Nat. Antiq. artis (Goetting, 1808), mentions and figures (pi. i. f. 5, p. 15), a small ancient sil- ver cast or impression of a case of hypospadias of the male genital parts, which he supposes to have formed a votive offering from some individual mal- formed in the manner represented. t Enquiry into the nature of Hermaphrodites, p. 145. We would particularly point out the cases quoted by Dr. Parsons at p. 14, 26, 30, 88, 95, 130, &c. of his able essay as directly contradictory of his own doctrine, or as instances of hermaphroditic appearances in persons not of the female but of the male sex. | Review of the Philosophical Transactions.