INSECTA. 9-17 notum; 3 a, prsescntum ; 3 6, scutum; 3 c, scutcl- luin; 3 d, post-scutcllum •, meso-sternum; 3 g, ster- num ; 3 /(, episternum ; of, epimeron ; 3 i, crest of the meso-sternum ; 3 e, parapteron ; 3 It, trochan- tin ; 4, metanotum ; 4 a, praescutum ; 4 i, scu- tum ; 4 c, scutellum ; 4 d, post-scutellum ; 4 e, parapteron; meta-sternum; 4 f, episternum; 4 g, meta-sternum ; 4 h, epimeron ; 4 i, crest of meta- sternum ; 4 It, trochantin (?) ; 4 I, coxa ; 4m, tro- chanter ; 4 n, femur; o, tibia; p, tarsus ; q, un- guis. These segments constitute the proper thorax of the insect, and the parts we have described are found in nearly all the Coleoptera, the most perfect species ; although, as before stated, they are sometimes greatly modified in shape, and varied in size and position, in order that the body of the insect may be adapted to its pecu- liar hubiis. Thus in the great water-beetle, Hydrous pictus, (Jig. 337,) which in its general appearance and mode of life very nearly resem- bles the Di/ticus, and not only burrows deeper into the mud at the bottom of stagnant waters, but is also accustomed to float among the weeds on the surface to bask in the sun, the form of the sternum is admirably adapted to its habits. The sterna of the meso-thorax and meta-thorax are not only both armed with a strong keel like a boat, but the two are firmly articulated together, which enables the insect more securely to float on the surface of the water, and thus afford additional strength to its whole body for the accomplishment of its ob- ject. But in the Dt/ticus, to which it is of the utmost consequence to be able to swim with the greatest rapidity, and turn with facility in the water, in the pursuit of its living prey, the pro-sternum and meso-sternum only are slightly keeled, while the meta-sternum is smooth, and the sides of the body are acute, and offer the least possible resistance to its movements. In addition to this, to afford suf- ficient strength to the body, together with faci- lity of motion, the sternum of the meta-thorax is produced in front into a short spine, which is inserted into a notch in the posterior part of the meso-sternum ; while the coxse of the poste- rior pair of legs upon which the chief efforts in swimming depend, although enormously en- larged to afford sufficient space for the inser- tion of the muscles, are flat and smooth like the rest of the under surface of the body, in order that they may not oppose the slightest impedi- ment to the motions of the insect. The different forms of the coxse (/) and of the acetabula(4 /c), into which they are inserted, have also a refe- rence to the habits of the species. The large posterior coxa? of the Vj/ticus are immoveably united by suture to the posterior margin of the meta-sternum, because, in this insect, the pos- terior pair of legs being especially designed for swimming, and their motions consequently being almost wholly in one direction, addi- tional strength is afforded to these organs by the immobility of the eoxse. In the Hydrous, in which all the legs are employed in walking, as well as in swimming, the coxaj are freely articulated in their respective acetabula, and each one is supported in part by the tro- chantin (?), (A), which is more developed than in the other insect. The strength of the body depends much upon the size of the thoracic segments, and the firm- ness of union which exists between them. Thus in those species which are more especially em- ployed in walking, in flying, or in swimming, the meso- and meta-thoracic segments are the largest. If the insect be aquatic, the largest parts, as we have seen, are the sternal surface of the meta-thorax, and its coxa?; but if, on the contrary, the habits of the insect be aerial, then the dorsal surface of the segment is larger than the sternal. In those insects which are mostly employed on the ground in running or walking, as the Carabida, Geutrupida, Coprida, and Lucanidte, the meso- and meta-thoracic seg- ments are often anchylosed together, to give greater strength to the whole body. This is particularly the case in Lucunus cervus (Jig. 388), in which the small sternum of the meso- thorax (3 g) is firmly auchyclosed to the enor- mously enlarged sternum of the meta-thorax. The reason for this is not merely to afford greater stability to the meta-thorax and its wings, upon which entirely devolves the labour of supporting this unwieldy insect during flight, but also to give greater strength to the whole body, during the efforts of the insect to strip off the bark from the smaller roots and branches of trees, to obtain a flow of the juices upon which it subsists. That such is the reason for this anchyclosed condition of its segments is evident from the circumstance, that it occurs not only in those insects which require great muscular power during flight, but also in those which are much accustomed to laborious efforts in tearing, in burrowing, or in running. In these, also, the acetabula (2 r, 3 r), are exceed- ingly deep, and almost entirely enclose the coxae within them, so that while the limb can be rotated freely in almost every direction, a dislocation of it is utterly impossible. The ace- tabula are situated on each side of the poste- rior part of the sternum, in each of the three thoracic segments, and in general are formed by an approximation of the sternum and epi- meron, and sometimes, also, of the epister- num, as in the Dyticus (Jig. 384, A). When, as in this instance, the episternum enters largely into the formation of the acetabulum, the epimeron is carried backwards, and forms the postero-lateral boundary, the episternum the antero-lateral, and the sternum the anterior boundary, so that the acetabulum is formed by the junction of three articulating sutures, and completely surrounds the coxa. This consoli- dation of parts gives an amazing increase of strength to the segment in which it occurs, and is one of the circumstances which enables the insect to exert a degree of muscular power which is sometimes truly astonishing. It oc- curs in general in the pro-thoracic segment, as in Lucanus, (388, 2,) Geotrupes, Ateucltus, and other Lamellicornes. A similar condition of the acetabula of the meso-thorax exists also in the same insect (3r). But instead of the posterior wall of the cavity being formed by the epi-