INSECTA. 953 * Phil. Trans. 1826. * Prize Essay, p. 11. to us, as we have elsewhere remarked,* from its seeming to be analogous to similar enlarge- ments on those parts of the spinal cord in man and other vertebrata, from which proceed the nerves to the arms and lower extremities of the body, and corresponds to the apparent greater necessity for accumulations of nervous matter at those parts of the cord. In Lepidoptera the cord is less easily examined in the perfect than in the larva state owing to its increased opacity, but the transverse nerves are not only distinct but have been removed forwards and now pass off on either side midway between the ganglia. The brain and its nerves do not acquire their full development until near the termination of the pupa state. The supra-oesophageal ganglia (A) of the larva, which, for convenience of description, we have called after Burmeister the cerebrum, are in reality the analogues of the corpora quadrigemina, and the first sub- cesophageal of the medulla oblongata. Bur- meister has designated this the cerebellum, but of that part of the brain in vertebrata we believe there is no analogue in any of the invertebrata. Instead of the cerebral mass being divided into two ganglia, as in the larva, it has now (Jig. 412, A) acquired a compact form; it is Fig. 412. A, brain of Timarcha tenebricosa; B, optic nerves; C, origin of the sympathetic and the crura; D, the medulla oblongata; b, the vagus or visceral nerve passing back from its ganglion; e, lateral nerves from the ganglion. convex on its upper surface with a slight depression in the middle line, and concave on its under, to adapt it to the form of the oesopha- gus, across which it is placed. At its sides it gives off the large optic nerves (B), which are almost equal to it in diameter. They pass directly outwards and are usually swollen into the form of an oblong ganglion, but are again constricted before they arrive at the optic fora- men, through which they pass and are imme- diately expanded into an immense number of fine filaments for the complicated organ of vision. There are enlargments upon these nerves at their base even in the larva state (Jig. 405). From the most superior portion of the cerebrum originate the nerves of the ocelli. They vary in number from one to three, and are little pyramidal elevations situated on each lobe, as seen in Acrida (jig. 410), posteriorly to the antennal nerves (D). They are each covered by a dark choroid, and in other respects are distinct nerves of vision. When three exist, as in Hymenoptera, the third is situated in the middle line between the others, and appears to be derived in part from each lobe, so that in this ocellus the vision of both sides of the brain is combined. In the Vespadts, however, accord- ing to Burmeister, the three ocelli originate from a single foot-stalk, and not separately, as in the Apidte. On its anterior surface the cerebrum gives off the antennal nerves. These also, in many instances, have a ganglionic enlargement at their base, as is well seen in some of the Ichneumonidce and other Hymen- optera, and as shown by Straus Durckheim in Melolontha. The antennal nerves vary in position, being sometimes near the middle line and at others close to the base of the optic, but in every instance anterior to them. At its anterior and inferior surface the cerebrum pro- duces the two remaining pairs of nerves. The most external, the glosso-pharyngeal, unites with its fellow of the opposite side to surround the oesophagus, as in the larva. It is seen very distinctly in the pupa state (jig. 415, f) of the sphinx, and also in many perfect insects, as in Acrida (fig. 410). It supplies the under-sur- face of the throat and part of the oesophagus, and a small branch is also given from its base to the sides of the mouth. At its inner side originates the recurrent or vagus nerve, which, after passing a little forwards, ascends and forms its ganglion on the upper surface of the pharynx, and then passes backwards along the oesophagus, as in the larva. In some insects, as in Orthoptera, it originates from a portion of the crura, as in Crustacea, but its course and direction are always the same although appearing to vary, as we shall presently show when describing it as an organic nerve. The sympathetic originates, as in the larva, from the posterior part of the brain. One circum- stance that particularly distinguishes the brain from the other ganglia is its more uniform opacity and greater softness, and disposition to deliquesce when exposed for a short time to the air. It is usually larger than most of the other ganglia, excepting perhaps the meso- thoracic. In Hymenoptera it is larger than in other insects, a curious circumstance this if it may be supposed to have any reference to the comparative instinct of different species. In Diptera and Orthoptera it is also of great size. We were once desirous of knowing whether it contains any cavities or ventricles, but after the most careful search we have been unable to detect any. It is an almost homogeneous mass, penetrated throughout its whole substance by minute air-vessels, which ramify within it and also in the substance of the optic nerve. This is one of the circumstances that lead us to suspect, as formerly suggested by Dr. Kidd in his anatomy of the Mole-cricket,* tliat the course of the blood in the different structures