ENTOZOA. 132 tured vessels, the head of the Tape-worm is the sole natural instrument by which it im- bibes its nutriment, and it is to the expulsion of this part that the attention of the physician should be principally directed, in his attempts to relieve a patient from these exhausting para- sites. Trematoda.—Four kinds of vessels or canals are met with in the parenchymatous body of the Trematode worms, viz. digestive, nutritive or sanguiferous, seminal, and ovigerous. In the genus Monostoma, the digestive canal is bifur- cated, each branch traverses in a serpentine direction the sides of the body, and they are united, in some species, by a transverse com- municating vessel at the caudal extremity; in others, as Monost. mutabile, they converge and terminate in an arched vessel at the posterior part of the body. They are of small size, and not very clearly distinguishable from the sangui- ferous vessels. In the Distoma hepaticum, the digestive organs are more distinctly developed. The oesophagus is continued from the anterior pore, and forms a short wide tube, shaped like an inverted funnel. Two intestinal canals are continued from its apex, which immediately begin to send off from their outer sides short and wide ccecal processes, and continue thus ramifying to the opposite end of the body, but have no anal outlet. Rudolphi* states that when successfully injected with mercury, more minute vessels are continued from the apices of the digestive canals, which form a net- work over the superficies of the body. A similar dendritic form of the digestive canal obtains in the singular genus Diplozoon, discovered by Nordmann in the gills of the Bream; the central canal and ramified ccecal processes in this En- tozoon are represented (Jig. 328, vol.i. p. 654,) on that moiety, which is opposite the left hand of the observer: on the other moiety the vascu- lar system alone is delineated. The latter is not, like the digestive canal, common to both halves of the body, but consists of two closed systems of vessels, each peculiar to its own moiety. Two principal trunks, a, a, traverse the sides of each moiety, preserving a uniform diameter throughout their entire course. In the external vessels marked a, a, Nordmann states that the blood is conveyed forwards or towards the head: in the internal ones, it passes back- wards in the opposite direction. The latter vessels commence by many minute branches which unite in the space between the oral suckers and the anterior extremity of the body, and terminate between the disc and suckers at the posterior extremity of the body. The exterior or ascending vessels begin where these disappear and pass towards the opposite end of the body: both trunks freely inter- communicate by means of superficial capil- laries. The blood moves through them with great rapidity, but without being influenced by any contraction or dilatation of the vessels themselves. The circulation continues for three or four hours to go on uninterruptedly in * Entoz, Synopsis, p. 583. each moiety of the Diplozoon, after they have been separated from one another by a division of the connecting band. The blood itself is per- fectly limpid. It should be observed, with refe- rence to the above description, that the appear- ance of circulatory movements in the vessels of the Diplozoon paradoxum is ascribed by Ehren- berg ( Weigmann's Arckiven, 1835, th. ii.) and Siebold (Ibid. 1836, th. ii.) to the motion of cilia on the inner surface of the vascular canals. In the genus Diplostomum, in which the nutritious and vascular systems characteristic of the Trematoda are peculiarly well displayed, (fig. 81,) a short and slightly dilated canal is continued from the mouth, and soon divides into two alimentary passages or intestines, e, e, which diverge, and proceed in a slightly un- dulating course, towards the hinder sacciform appendage of the body, dilating as they de- scend, and ultimately terminating each in a blind extremity, f,f. The contents of this long bifid blind alimentary canal are of a yellowish brown colour, especially in old individuals, and consist of a finely granular substance. As there is no separate anal aperture, the crude and effete particles are probably regurgitated and cast out by the mouth, as in all other Trematoda. The posterior projection of the body, g, Nordmann compares to the posterior appen- dage in the Cercaria; it is terminated by a posterior aperture which seems to be the ex- cretory outlet of some secerning organ ; since a milky fluid is sometimes ejected from it with force. In a species of Distoma (Distoma clavatum, Rud.) which I recently dissected, Fig. 81.