477 GENERATION. pregnancy by the sight of a child with hare-lip, bears a child with a complete deformity of the same kind: her second child had merely a deep slit, and her third no more than a mark in the same place. We do not wish to argue against this hy- pothesis from its prima facie absurdity merely; but we think it will be generally admitted that the greater number of the foregoing cases are ridiculous and incredible; inasmuch as simple malformations of structure well known to ana- tomists have been rfgarded as the represen- tations of animals and other objects to which they bear a very distant if any resemblance,— cases, in short, in which it is apparent that the imagination of the bye-standers has been more active than that of the mother. We shall at once admit that we ought not to reject immediately an explanation of the me- chanism of a vital function on account of its obscurity merely ; but we assert that the gene- ral phenomena of the vital functions are capa- ble of being observed and reduced to fixed and general laws, which is certainly by no means the case with the effects of imagination, which are as various and contradictory as they are absurd and ridiculous. The anatomical connection of the maternal uterus and child is so well known that we may with safety affirm that no such communication exists as would be necessary for the transmission of an im- pression from the body of the mother to any particular organ of the foetus, and much less any means of conveying mental impressions only. The longings which are said to be so liable to cause injuries of the child seem to act in the same manner whether the appetite is satisfied or not, &c. But moral reasons are much stronger against the belief. It is obvious that in much the larger proportion of the cases related, the co- incidence of the mental impression on the mother with the injury done to the child is a post-partum observation and discovery. The mother and her friends, or the father, if such a deformity shall belong to his side of the house, are desirous of finding an explanation of the blemish which shall not be a stigma upon them; and in other instances it is to be feared that the idle and talkative women who attend upon child-beds, and even more scientific male accoucheurs, have encouraged the mother's belief in the effect of some alleged previous impression (selected from thousands) on her imagination, in order to hide undue violence employed during the delivery, or perhaps with a less culpable desire to quiet the fears of the mother while in the dangerous puerperal state. There is no doubt that there are innumerable instances in which the imagination and all the moral and intellectual powers of women have been highly excited during pregnancy without their children having suffered in any respects ; and there are not wanting instances of chil- dren being born with all kinds of deformity that have been attributed to the effect of imagination, without their being aware of any unusual impression having been made on their minds. Again, it may be remarked that the stage of the period of pregnancy at which the injury of the child may take place is by no means de- fined, and that there is no correspondence between the time or advancement of the foetus and the nature of the injury. Some injuries are said to have occurred or to have had their foundation laid at the very moment of con- ception, and even occasionally before that time, while others are inflicted only a few weeks be- fore birth. The monstrous appearances or malformations which constitute by far the greater part of the injuries attributed to the mother's imagination, are now no longer regarded as lusus naturae merely, or " sports of nature's fancy," as they used to be called; but the times at which many of them must have occurred are known with some degree of certainty, and these times by no means correspond with the periods at which the imagination is said to have been affected. Besides this, nearly the whole of congenital malformations have been accurately anatomised, and their structure is reduced to general laws as regular and determinate in each individual form as the more usual or so- called natural structure. See Monstrosity. In this question, as in others of a like kind, reference has been made to scriptural autho- rity, in the history, viz. of Jacob's placing the peeled black and willow rods before the ewes which went to drink and afterwards conceived. But any one who pays the slightest attention to the whole of this relation will at once be convinced that the sacred writer, in describing the proceeding of Jacob, exhibits merely that patriarch's belief in the efficacy of such means; for in a subsequent part of the chapter Jacob is undeceived by the angel, who appears to him in a dream and informs him of the real cause of the multiplication of the speckled lambs, &c. viz. the circumstance that the ring-straked, speckled, and spotted males had leaped upon the females, and that the progeny therefore merely inherited their colour from their fathers. We now leave this unsatisfactory subject, upon which we have perhaps dwelt longer than it deserves. We have introduced the foregoing remarks partly in accordance with custom, and also with a view to shew how little connection exists between the facts of our subject and the vague fancies to which allusion has been made. In doing so we are aware that we are liable to the accusation, on the one hand, of having treated with too much levity facts and ob- servations upon which some are disposed im- plicitly to rely, and, on the other, of trifling with science in noticing even such vain fancies as belong to pregnant women and their atten- dant nurses. We conclude by adopting and expressing the opinion of Dr. Blundell, " that it is con- trary to experience, reason, and anatomy to believe that the strong attention of the mother's mind to a determinate object or event can cause a determinate or a specific impression upon the body of her child without any force or violence from without; and that it is equally improbable that, when the imagination is ope-