ANIMAL HEAT. 680 gradually lose it, as has been shown in a former passage of this article. The native of the colder clime is more robust, and his nervous system, less impressible, resists painful sensa- tions in a greater degree, and is not over- whelmed by the first effects of noxious influ- ences. This conclusion is also susceptible of demonstration by the way of direct experiment. If during summer a frog be completely im- mersed in a small quantity of water at the ordi- nary temperature of this season of the year, and the same experiment be repeated during winter with water heated to the summer pitch, the animal will live much longer in the latter than in the former instance. The nervous sys- tem of the animal, by the continued action of the cold of the autumn and winter, has been rendered much more capable of resisting noxi- ous influences, as we have had occasion to see already. It is on the same principle that the Finlander, according to the account of Acerbi, can endure a bath at a much higher tempera- ture than it could be borne by a native of a warm or more temperate climate. EFFECTS OF VARIOUS OTHER CAUSES OF MODI- FICATION IN EXTERNAL AGENTS. The effects of external heat and cold on the sensations and on the system in general are not altogether dependent on degrees of temperature. Even at the same degree atmospheric effects are often very different, being principally influ- enced by the state of dryness or moisture, and by that of motion or rest, of the air. Speaking generally, media exert modifying influences other than those comprised in their tempera- ture upon the phenomena of animal heat. Eva- poration is a powerful cause of cooling, which increases in the same measure as the evapora- tion. In the summer season, consequently, during a state of the weather in which the temperature is the same, but the hygrome- tric condition different, the heat of the body will be higher in moist than in dry air. In the same way we observe all the effects of excessive temperature upon the body to be much more intense with a moist than with a dry atmo- sphere. Intheclimate of northern France orEng- land it would be impossible to stand a vapour- bath at a temperature between 40° and 50° c. (104° to 122° F.) for more than ten or twelve minutes ; but with a perfectly dry state of the air it is possible to bear a temperature twice, or more than twice as high during the same space of time. M. Delaroche found that he could not remain in a vapour-bath raised in the course of eight minutes from 37°,5 to 5 1°,25 c. (100° to 125° F.) for more than ten minutes and a half, although the bath fell one degree. M. Berger was compelled to make his escape within twelve minutes and a half from a vapour- bath the temperature of which had risen ra- pidly from 41°,25 to 53°,75c. (106°tol29°F.). Both of these experimenters felt themselves become weak and unstable on their legs, and were affected with vertigo, thirst, &c. The weakness and thirst continued through the remainder of the day. But in the course of Dr. Dobson's experiments, a young man con- tinued for twenty minutes in a dry-air stove, the temperature of which was 98°,88 c. (210° F.), within a degree or two, conse- quently, of the ordinary boiling temperature of water. His pulse, which usually beat 75 times in a minute, now beat 164 times. This, however, is by no means the degree of heat that can be and that has been en- dured. M. Berger for five minutes bore a temperature of 109°,48c; and Sir Charles Blagden went still further, having exposed his body during eight minutes to the contact of dry air heated up to the extraordinary pitch of 115°,55 and 127°,7c. (240° and 260° F.). In assigning 40° or 50° c. (104° or 122° F.) for the limits of moist temperature that can be borne by the inhabitants of these coun- tries, we are perfectly aware that in other lati- tudes it can be greatly exceeded. Thus Acerbi, in his journey to the North Cape, informs us that the Finnish peasantry remain for half an hour or more in a vapour-bath, the temperature of which finally rises to 70° and even 75° c. (158° and 167° F.). We have already given the reason of this difference of constitution. Experimental philosophers have not yet tried the precise comparative cooling effects of dry air and of watery vapour; but all are agreed that the powers of the moist atmosphere are by far the most considerable. To measure the comparative effects upon the economy the fol- lowing experiments were instituted. In equal spaces, the one filled with air at the point of extreme humidity, the other with extremely dry air, were placed young birds of the same age, which were as yet incapable of maintaining their temperature at its proper height when taken out of the nest. It was found that they lost temperature nearly in the same propor- tion in the same space of time when the air was either at the point of extreme humidity or of great dryness. Therefore moist air tends to cool at least as much as dry air by evapora- tion. It cools both by the abstraction of heat and by its action on the nervous system. Its action on the nervous system is of a debilitating nature, and therefore tends to diminish the power of generating heat. The sensation of cold was evidently greater in the moist air, as was shown by the shivering of the animal. There can be no doubt that the action of vapour in this case is complicated by a physi- cal influence in the one instance, and by a pecu- liar physiological effect on the nervous system in the other ; for it is well ascertained that water, as contrasted with air, has a debilitating effect upon the economy. General experience comes in support of these results; men have ever agreed that moist and cold states of the atmo- sphere and humid and cold climates were more difficult to be borne than those of an opposite character. Such climes in fact are in them- selves extremely insalubrious. By their pecu- liar effects on the economy they tend greatly to lessen the power of producing heat, and they also engender intermittent fevers, among other morbid conditions. According to the state of