REGIONS OF THE HAND. 524 the base of the little finger; this traverses the hand about two lines above the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations. Opposite the joints of the fingers there are also transverse lines; the two first have double, the last joint but a single line ;—an incision made perpendicular to it would fall about a line above the articula- tion. Of the middle joint, the superior trans- verse line is the most constant, and is placed about half a line above its articulation. Of the lines corresponding to the first joint of the fingers, the superior is on a level with the termination of the interdigital web, and from ten lines to an inch below the articulation, excepting that of the thumb, which resembles the middle joint of the fingers, its line nearly corresponding to the articulation. There are many other inconstant folds, or markings of the skin, in this region, which, to the surgeon, are of little import, but which present a book of mystic lore to the gipsy and the cheiromancer, wherein (when opened by the necessary charms) they discern the future destinies of all that seek to be enlightened by them. We shall now proceed to examine the various structures found in this region, and, for con- venience of description, shall consider them as constituting the following layers :—1, skin ; 2, subcutaneous cellular tissue, vessels, and nerves; 3, aponeurosis; 4, deep vessels and nerves ; 5, muscles and tendons. 1. The skin.—The integument on the front of the wrist resembles that on the anterior sur- face of the fore-arm ; but, on reaching the palm, it suddenly changes its character, and instead of the fine, smooth, yielding skin, we find it dense, resisting, exceedingly vascular, and covered with a very strong and thick cuticle ; on the thenar, however, it preserves some degree of suppleness and elasticity. In those accustomed to hard manual labour, and in the aged, the cuticle becomes so thick and callous as to en- able them to handle even hot coals without inconvenience ; but in them, from this increased resistance, and from the difficulty of getting at matter, or freeing the parts by incisions, inflam- mations of the palm are the more dangerous. Corns are sometimes developed at the roots of the fingers, on the prominences formed by the heads of the metacarpal bones. There are no se- baceous follicles to be discovered in this region; but M. Velpeau thinks, from the fact of the occasional appearance of variolous pustules on the front of the fingers, that follicles there exist. The physical conditions of the skin of the hand, as to coolness or warmth, as to moisture or dryness, often furnish valuable signs in dis- ease. 2. Subcutaneous cellular tissue is dense and serrated, more fibrous than cellular, enclosing in its meshes small rounded pellets of fat. On the wrist it binds the skin so closely to the subjacent parts, that, in cases of serous or other infiltration above this point, the effused fluids are arrested, and prevented from passing into the palm of the hand; also, in very fat and flabby people, and in young children, a kind of strangulation is observable at the wrist from the same cause. On the thenar this layer is laxer and less compact, permitting the skin to play freely. On the centre of the palm and hypothenar it is very dense and fibrous, enclos- ing larger pellets of fat, binding the skin very firmly to the palrmr aponeurosis and sheaths of the fingers, towards the extremities of which it becomes more fatty, increases in thickness, forming a soft elastic cushion called the pulp of the fingers. This tissue is the seat of that painful phlegmonous inflammation, the true whitlow. The unyielding natureof the thick consistent skin on the one hand, and of the bones and sheaths on the other, whereby the swollen and inflamed pulp, together with its great number of vessels and the nervous expansion it encloses, are vio- lently compressed, easily account for the violent symptoms, and call loudly for the prompt relief of the strangulation by means of the knife, and also indicate the great advantage of emollients. The subcutaneous nerves are few, and derived from the palmar cutaneous branch of the median and some terminal branches of the internal and musculo-cutaneous nerves. The veins are also very few, and give rise to the median, and are accompanied by the superficial lymphatics. 3. The aponeurosis.—At the wrist the apo- neurosis, derived from that of the front of the forearm, is interwoven with and inseparable from the anterior annular ligament, from the lower border of which, and from the tendon of the palmaris longus, the palmar fascia proceeds. Above the annular ligament the aponeurosis is attached to the extremity of the ulna, and the pisiform and the styloid process of the radius; it furnishes sheaths to the tendons that do not pass under the annular ligament, one to the ul- nar and its nerve, and another to the radial trunk and its volar branch. The anterior annu- lar ligament is exceedingly strong, attached internally to the pisiform and unciform, and ex- ternally to the scaphoid and trapezium. It con- sists of two layers, the one superficial, of diver- gent fibres, derived from the tendon of the palmaris longus when it exists, or belonging to the origin of the palmar fascia when it does not; the other deep, of transverse fibres, con- tinuous with the fascia of the forearm. It forms, together with the concavity of the pal- mar aspect of the carpal bones, a sort of ellipti- cal ring about two inches in its transverse, and one inch in its antero-posterior diameter, and gives passage to the common flexor tendons and median nerve, which are enveloped by a com- mon synovial bursa which binds them together, and terminates in a common cul-de-sac above and below the ligament; also to the long flexor tendon of the thumb, which has a distinct bursa. This ligament, from its great strength, presents an insurmountable obstacle to the pro- gress of tumours developed beneath it, forcing them to protrude on the forearm above the liga- ment in the hand below it. Thus, when the common synovial bursa of the tendons is dis- tended, it forms two tumours, the one above, the other below the ligament; and upon com- pressing the fluid from one the other will be found to enlarge. Ganglia rarely occur here.