ENTOZOA. 113 axis, which continues for five or ten minutes after the death of the bird in which they are developed. Some have supposed that these animalcules were the result of a putrefactive process, but this is disproved by their presence in testicles which have been removed from living animals, and by their ceasing in fact to exist when the seminal secretion begins to undergo a decom- position. Their extraordinary number is such that a drop of semen appears as a moving mass, in which nothing can be distinguished until it has been diluted as before-mentioned, when the animalcules are seen to disengage them- selves and commence their undulatory move- ments. By means of the continual agitation thus produced the chemical elements of the fecundating fluid are probably kept in a due state of admixture. By the same movements the impregnating influence of the semen may be carried beyond the boundary which it reaches in the female organs from the expulsive actions of the coitus. It has been conjectured that from the rapid and extensive multiplication of these animalcules they may contribute to pro- duce the stimulus of the rut. But the con- sideration of the part which the Zoosperms may play in generation belongs to the Physio- logical history of that function, and would lead to discussions foreign to the present article, which treats of their form and structure simply as the parasites of animal bodies. In the human subject the form of the Zoo- sperm is accurately represented in Jig. 51. Among the cold-blooded Reptiles the Zoo- sperms of the Frog (jig. 51) have been ex- amined with most attention, and have been the subject of interesting experiments in the hands of Spallanzani and Dumas. The milt or developed testicle of the osseous Fishes abounds with moving bodies of a glo- bular form. In the Shark and Ray the Zoo- sperms are of a linear and spiral form. The molluscous animals are favourable sub- jects for the examination of the present tribe of Entozoa on account of the great relative size of the parasites of the seminal secretion. They are mostly of a filamentary form, and have long been known in the Cephalopods. The Zoosperms of the Snail ( Helix Pomatia) present an undulated capillary body, and move sufficiently slowly to permit their being readily followed by the eye. The Spermatozoa have been detected and described in the different classes of the Arti- culate Animals. In Insects they are of a fine capillary form, and are generally aggregated in bundles. They abound in the semen of the Anellides and Cirripeds; lastly, these parasites have been found to exist in vast numbers in the spermatic tubes of the higher organized En- tozoa themselves. The second tribe of Protelmint/ia includes those cylindrical, filiform, eel-like, microscopic Animalcules which abound in decayed vege- table paste, stale vinegar, &c. together with others which have attracted particular attention by the destructive waste caused by certain spe- cies which are parasitic on living vegetables. These animalcules are termed Vibrionidce from vol. ir. their darting or quivering motion. They differ from the polygastric Infusories, not only in the absence of internal stomachs but also of external cilia, which is inferred by their not exciting any currents when placed in coloured water. They present a higher grade of organi- zation than the Cercarian tribe in the presence of a straight alimentary canal, which is re- markably distinct in some of the higher forms of the group, as the Gordioides and Oxyu- roides of Bory St. Vincent. The higher organized Vibriones have distinct generative organs, and are ovo-viviparous. In the species of Vibrio which infests the grains of wheat and occasions the destructive disease called Ear-cockle or Purples, Mr. Bauer found the ova arranged between the alimentary canal and the integument, in a chaplet or moniliform oviduct which terminated by a bilabiate orifice at a little distance from the caudal extremity of the body. The ova are discharged at this orifice in strings of five or six, adhering to each other. Each egg is about 3^jth of an inch long, and g'^th or ^th in di- ameter : and they are sufficiently transparent to allow of the young worm being seen within: and the embryo, in about an hour and a half after the egg is laid, extricates itself from the egg-coverings. Of the numerous individuals examined by Mr. Bauer, not any exhibited external distinctions of sex, and he believes them to be hermaphrodites. In the Anguillula aceti, or common Vinegar- eel, Bory St. Vincent has distinguished indi- viduals in which a slender spiculum is pro- truded from the labiate orifice corresponding to that above described from which the ova are extruded; these individuals he considers to be males; they are much less numerous than the females; are considerably smaller; and the internal chaplet of ova is not dis- cernible in them. In the female the ova are arranged in two series on each side of the alimentary canal, and the embryo worms are usually seen to escape from the egg-coverings while yet within the body of the parent, and to be born alive. Ehrenberg figures the two sexes of Anguillulafluviatilis 'm his first trea- tise on the Infusoria (tab. vii. fig. 5.*) The granular testis and intromittent spiculum, which is single, are conspicuous in the male; the ova in the female are large and arranged as in Anguillula aceti. Such an organization, it is obvious, closely approximates these higher Vibrionidae to the nematoid Entozoa, as the Ascarides and Oxyuri, and further researches on this interesting group will doubtless lead to the dismemberment of the Oxyuroid family from the more simple Vibrionidce, as the genera Bacterium, Spirillum, and Vibrio, with which they are at present associated. To the group composed of the three last- named genera, the microscopic parasite of the human muscles, termed Trichina Spiralis, is referrible.f * Organisation, systematik und georaphisches Verhaltniss der Infusionthieschen, 1«30. t Zool. Trans, vol. i. p. 315, and Zool. Pro- ceedings, for February, 1835. I