FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. 314 was always more affected than the left. During August the gums became separated on the right from the necks of the teeth; there existed between the latter and the gums spaces into which tartar and portions of food had pene- trated ; the patient suffered from the epileptic paroxysms with variable degrees of severity : he next fell into a general cachexy, with extreme debility, impeded respiration, small frequent pulse, great alteration of countenance, and un- usual taciturnity. It is stated that in August he acknowledged deafness on the right, which diminished and again increased; the sensibility was perfectly preserved in all the extent of the right side of the face ; the patient died on the 12th of August. Both the brain and the fifth nerve were found after death much diseased, the brain on the left and the nerve on the right side. The details of the case have been given more at length than may perhaps seem necessary, but the question is interesting, and as the bearing of the case upon it could not be determined otherwise, the writer has endeavoured to give them faithfully. The difficulty of obtain- ing precise knowledge from so complicated a case has been already adverted to. We come next to inquire how far it substantiates the writer's views, or how far it can be considered to establish the opinion of Magendie. Serres, as has been already stated, announces it as an instance of disease of the fifth nerve followed by loss of smell, sight, hearing, &c. Surely the loss of these several functions, thus an- nounced, should have been satisfactorily esta- blished, before asserted; but such does not appear to have been the case. For the first, notwithstanding the announcement, we find Serres himself, after the patient's death, ac- knowledging, " toutefois l'odorat n'avait pas completement disparu, puisque,"* &c. The sense of smell then plainly was not lost. In the next place there was loss of vision, but from what cause ? from opacity of the cornea, and, so far as we have data for forming a judgment, from it alone. We have no reason to think that any alteration had been pro- duced in the power of the eye to receive sensations of light, any disturbance in the function of the retina, or any other change than the occurrence of a physical impediment to the exercise of a function, which the organ may have retained in full vigour, had it only been allowed to exert it: the evidence, there- fore, afforded by the case, is too imperfect to be of value. Let us next inquire how far it bears out the opinion that the fifth nerve possesses a proper and direct influence upon the nutrition of the eye: here we shall find ourselves equally at fault for the resemblance which it has been sought to establish. In Magendie's experi- ments the section of the nerve preceded the occurrence of the phenomena, and it is reason- able to expect, that, here, the loss of sensibi- lity, which we are to regard as the analogue of the section, should have preceded the oc- 1 Journ. de Phys. t. v. p. 245. currence of the inflammation of the eye; but no. The patient had a chronic ophthalmia, con- sidered scrofulous at the time of his admission; (he was admitted in September, and in De- cember he was attacked by acute ophthalmia, attended by oedema of the lids; a circumstance not noticed in any of Magendie's experiments;) the inflammation was dispersed, and in the course of January, and not till then, (i. e. four months after his admission and about one after the occurrence of the second inflammation,) the insensibility of the eye was for the first time observed. Surely we have no reasonable grounds here for attributing the inflammation of the eye and the opacity of the cornea to the disease of the nerve, or for supposing that there existed any connexion, in the relation of cause and effect, between them. If we seek for a resemblance in other points, we shall be equally disappointed. It has been already remarked that oedema of the eyelids, which occurred in this case, is not one of the phenomena of Magendie's experiments. Again, the affection of the gums related is altogether unlike: in Serres' case they are stated to have become inflamed, and to have been affected on both sides, only more on the right than on the left; in Magendie's it is simply stated that they separated from the teeth and only on the side on which the nerve had been divided ; and, lastly, the continuance of sensibility upon the right side of the face throughout casts an im- pervious obscurity over the entire. Besides those effects of the section of the trunk of the nerve which have been discus- sed, there are others, for which we are in- debted also to Magendie, and which deserve notice. lie found after the section of the nerve that the eye was dry, and the motion of winking had ceased ; the globe of the eye itself seemed to have lost all its motions; the iris was strongly contracted and immoveable. The loss of sensibility in the conjunctiva, and the sus- pension of the secretion of the tears, he refers to the loss of the influence of the fifth nerve upon the former part and upon the lachrymal gland : the explanation of the first is in accor- dance with the previously established proper- ties of the nerve as already ascertained by Mayo, but it is not equally so that the secretion of the lachrymal gland is directly controlled by the same influence, and it remains to be deter- mined whether the effect in this case was not an indirect one, consequent upon the previous insensibility of the conjunctiva. The other re- sults of the section—the immobility of the eyelids, that of the eye, and the permanent contraction of the pupil—he has not satisfac- torily explained: the immobility of the lids may, it appears to the author, be attributed with much probability to the insensibility of the conjunctiva or of the internal structures of the eye, and seems a likely consequence there- of : the ordinary action of winking would seem to be called into play through the sensations of those structures, and the cessation of that action upon the loss of their sensibility is as natural an effect as the immobility of the lips