ORGAN OF HEARING. 555 periorly, and which opens on the surface of the petrous bone outside, and in front of the hiatus of Fallopius. From this the nerve advances between the anterior margin of the petrous bone and the posterior angle of the great wing of the sphenoid, between the internal muscle of the malleus and the superficial petrosal nerve. There it approaches the nerve of the internus mallei, and proceeds parallel with it, and under the name of nervus petrosus superfi- citilis minor Arnoldi,* goes to join the otic ganglion. Fig, 260. Nervous plexus of the tympanum (from Breschet.) a. Internal carotid artery ; b. glosso-pharyngeal nerve; c. petrous ganglion of the same nerve; d. the principal trunk of the nervous plexus of the tympanum which extends to join, e. the otic gang- lion or ganglion of Arnold ; f. lower maxillary nerve to which the ganglion adheres ; 9. filaments of communication between the nerve of Jacobson and the carotid plexus; /(. carotid plexus; i. fila- ment to the fenestra rotunda, or cochlear fenestra ; k. filament to the vestibular fenestra; /.filament going to anastomose with the facial nerve; m. fila- ment running alongside the Eustachian tube; n. portio dura of the seventh pair ; 0. chorda tym- pani cut; p. nervous filament from the otic gang- lion to the muscle of the malleus. The branches given off and the communica- tions formed by the tympanic nerve in the course described, are the following. On entering the tympanum, the tympanic nerve divides into two branches, a lower and an upper. The lower branch first gives twigs to the Eustachian tube, and then passes out of the cavity of the tympanum into the carotid canal, through a * Bidder (Neurologische Beobachtungen. Dor- pat, 1836,) has recently discovered a new nervus petrosus superficialis, which, for the sake of distinc- tion, he calls tertius. It proceeds from the plexus accompanying the middle meningeal artery into the cavity of the cranium, passes through a proper fis- sure in the anterior surface of the petrous bone and under the entrance of the canal of Fallopius into the petrous bone to join the facial. It is not always present. passage in the bone, where it anastomoses with the sympathetic nerve. The upper branch, the continuation of the nerve, gives a twig to the secondary membrana tympani. According to Varrentrapp, there arises from it, by two roots, a twig which runs on the inner wall of the cavity of the tympanum, then into the Eusta- chian tube, the cartilage of which it penetrates anteriorly, and at last loses itself in the mucous glands around its guttural orifice. A little higher up a third branch goes to the vestibular fenestra, and, according to Lauth, the tympanic nerve receives, immediately on its entrance into the canal in the upper part of the petrous bone, a filament from the facial nerve. Moreover, the tympanic nerve receives a filament of com- munication from the external branch of the nervus curoticus, the anterior and stronger branch of the first cervical ganglion of the sym- pathetic. From the otic ganglion a nerve goes to the internal muscle of the malleus, ramus ad ten- sorem tympani. It arises from the upper and posterior part of the ganglion, and runs back- wards on the inner side of the middle menin- geal artery to the muscle. 2. Nerves of the auricle and auditory pas- sage.—The auricle and auditory passage derive their nerves from the cervical plexus, from the facial, from the third branch of the fifth pair, and also from the pneumogastric. The nerve from the cervical plexus is the great auricular nerve, nervus auriculuris mag- nus. It comes off from the anterior branch of the third cervical nerve, and is distributed principally to the skin on the back of the auricle and to the posterior muscles. One branch passes between the antitragus and the tail-like process of the helix to the other surface of the ear and ramifies there. The faciul ner.ve on its exit from the stylo- mastoid hole gives off the posterior, inferior or deep auricular nerve, nervus auriculuris pos- terior, profundus inferior, which receives a twig from the pneumogastric and another from the great auricular branch of the third cervical and then divides into two branches, a posterior larger, and an anterior smaller. The former gives twigs to the skin of the mastoid process and the retrahentes auriculam muscles, the latter spreads on the lower and posterior part of the cartilaginous auditory passage and the concha, giving twigs to the skin of these parts and the retrahentes auriculam. It sometimes sends a branch through the cartilage into the auditory passage to ramify in the integument lining that part. The temporal branches of the facial nerve send filaments to the skin of the anterior part of the auricle, and to its anterior and superior muscles. The superficial temporal nerve, a branch of the posterior and inferior fasciculus of the third division of the fifth pair, gives off two branches, nervi meatus auditorii externi, inferior et supe- rior, the ramifications of which are distributed to the integument of the auditory passage and concha. There is one branch, nervus tympani, which runs under the upper wall of the osseous