900 INSECTA. the development of which, in the higher forms of insects, is only of secondary importance, com- pared with that of the mandibles, but is now carried to so great an extent that these organs become almost or entirely the sole means of taking food. Not only do these changes take place in the parts of the mouth, but the whole head undergoes a similar alteration in the rela- tive form and size of its parts, occasioned by the excessive development of the organs of vi- sion. Thus in the Lepidoptera, (Jig. 377,) the Fig. 377. The head, and parts of the mouth of Sphinx Ugustri. A, antenna ; b, epicranium , c, cornea; d, cly- peus posterior; e, labrum; f, mandible; g, max- illa or proboscis ; h, maxillary palpus; B, base of the maxilla with the mandibles and labrum; C, lateral view of the same. lateral and a large portion of the inferior surface of the head is entirely occupied by the cornea? (r), which are also extended far forwards upon the anterior. The occipital region is confined to the flat surface that is approximated to the prothorax. The epicranium (6) is distinct, and, as in the preceding Orders, extends as far an- teriorly on each side as the base of the antennae between the corneas, but the suture that sepa- rates it from the clypeus posterior (d) is almost transverse. The clypeus posterior is very large, and occupies the whole of the space between the corneas, on the front of the head. It is convex as in Neuroptera, and is narrowest at its inferior part. The clypeus anterior appears to exist in the form of a minute transverse plate, a little elongated in its middle on the hinder part, and separated by a transverse groove on its anterior from a much smaller plate, the labrum (e), with which it is consolidated. This part, which was first detected in Lepidoptera by the accurate Savigny,* is also a small convex transverse plate with a little triangular scale at its anterior margin, fitted closely to the front of the max- illa?. In Sphinx Ugustri, (fig. 377,) the separa- • Memoires sur les Animaux sans Verttibres. tion of the labrum by suture from the part which we regard as the clypeus anterior, is distinct, but it appears to have been overlooked by Sa- vigny and others. On each side of the labrum are the rudiments of the mandibles ( /"). They are two minute, triangular plates, attached in part to the labrum and margin of the clypeus, to which, as Savigny has remarked, they appear to be soldered. They are applied to the base of the maxillae, and in Sphinx appear each to be formed of two parts, and are co- vered along their inner margin with stiff hairs. They are the remains of the large corneous mandibles of the larva. We are indebted for their discovery to the indefatigable researches of Savigny, who first traced their identity. The labium, which forms so conspicuous a part of the mouth in the preceding Orders, like the mandibles, is reduced to insignificance in this. It is a small triangular plate, closely attached to the under surface of the head, at the base of the maxillae, and its division into parts, so dis- tinct in other insects, is now scarcely perceptible. The labial palpi (k) arise one on each side of the labium. They are usually long, hairy, and three-jointed, and are reflected on the front of the head. Next to the maxillae they are the most conspicuous parts of the mouth, particularly in Fyralidte and Tortricida, in which they are long and pointed. The lingua has been sup- posed to be entirely absent in Lepidoptera. It was not detected by Savigny. Latreille be- lieved it to exist in the suture at the floor of the mouth, but Mr. Newman has observed a small mammiform protuberance in Sphinx li- gustri which he regards as the analogue of the tongue in this Order. The labrum, mandibles, and labium are entirely concealed by the re- flected labial palpi and a dense clothing of scales, and are only observed when the anterior part of the head is completely denuded of these coverings. Their atrophied condition affords a beautiful illustration of the law that in proportion as the functions of an organ be- come suspended, or are rendered unnecessary by the employment of other parts, the organ itself becomes wasted and utterly useless, and perhaps entirely disappears. Thus in those Lepidoptera whose food is liquid honey pro- duced in the deep chalices of flowers, the short mandibles of the voracious herbivorous larva would be entirely useless to the perfect insect, and its food would be inaccessible to it. Accordingly we find that the man- dibles are now unimportant organs, and the office of conveying food to the mouth is performed solely by the maxillae (</), which are extended in the shape of a long sucking tube. Each maxilla is composed of an im- mense number of short, transverse, muscular rings. It is convex on its outer surface, but concave on its inner, and the tube is formed by the approximation of the two organs. When at rest they are rolled up like a watch-spring, between the large labial palpi, but are capable of being darted forth in an instant. They are the so-called tongue, or proboscis of the but- terfly and moth. Each maxilla has usually