851 ARTERIA INNOMINATA. fleeted to the right and left, thus exposing a layer of fascia separating the skin from vthe platisma muscle ; this fascia is thin externally, but where it corresponds to the interval between the two sterno-mastoid muscles it becomes dense and more or less loaded with fat; reflect this fascia and the platisma will next appear, behind which is that usually described as the superficial fascia of the neck covering the sterno-mastoid muscle, containing the external jugular vein, and increasing considerably in density above the sternum, over which it passes down in front of the pectoral muscles. Like the previous layer its thickness is augmented by fat. If this be raised the sterno-mastoid muscles and the first layer of the deep cervical fascia, extending between their two anterior margins, are brought into view, together with some small superficial vessels and nerves. This latter fascia should be carefully examined above the sternum to the anterior margin of which it strongly adheres ; it is very dense, so much so that if we endeavour to force a finger into the thorax at this point, it effectually resists our efforts. Behind this fascia is a space cor- responding in depth to the thickness of the upper edge of the first bone of the sternum, containing fat and usually a gland, and in ad- dition a vein rather larger than a crow-quill, extending across the neck about half an inch above the sternum; this communicates with a vein on either side of the neck running down on the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and should be carefully avoided by the surgeon in the operation for tying the in- nominata, as it is of sufficient size to cause embarrassment if wounded. If the fat and gland be now removed we come down upon the second layer of this fascia, which is also very dense and adheres to the inter-clavicular ligament. Having examined these parts and the triangular space existing between the sternal and clavicular insertions of the sterno-mastoid muscles, the sternal insertions of the latter should be detached and the first bone of the sternum removed ; this will expose the remains of the thymus gland and the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, which being cut through and reflected upwards are found to cover the deep or third layer of the cervical fascia, which may be traced from the anterior scalenus muscle to its union with its fellow of the op- posite side, binding down the cervical vessels, &c. Upon removing this fascia we come down upon the arteria innominate covered by the following parts; inferiorly the left brachio- cephalic vein passes nearly horizontally across the root of the artery to form the vena cava superior by uniting with the corresponding vein of the right side. Although the com- mencement of the vena cava, strictly speaking, has a closer relation to the arch of the aorta than the innominata, it is nevertheless sufficiently near the latter to render it of considerable im- portance in operations performed upon (hat vessel. Superiorly the first or upper cardiac nerve in its course towards the thorax crosses the innominata opposite its bifurcation; we next observe the right inferior thyroid vein, which, emanating from the lower portion of the thyroid gland, and having formed with its fellow of the opposite side the thyroid venous plexus runs, obliquely downwards from the gland towards the right side directly in front of the innominata artery, and empties itself into the vena cava superior between the two brachio-cephalic veins. The middle thyroid artery, when it exists, may now be seen ascend- ing in front of the trachea. These several objects, viz. the left brachio-cephalic and thy- roid veins with the cardiac nerve, are all en- veloped in a quantity of loose cellular tissue and glands serving to connect them to the vessel, which may now be fully exposed and its different relations studied; when we shall observe that on its right side there is a space bounded superiorly by the right subclavian artery, inferiorly by the left brachio-cephalic vein, to the right by the right brachio-cephalic vein, and to the left by the innominata artery itself; this is the situation where the aneurismal needle should be introduced in the operation for tying this vessel, as we thus run less risk of wounding the veins. From the above description it is evident that the coverings of the innominata may be ar- ranged into ten layers, which, enumerated from the surface, consist of 1. The skin. 2. Layer of superficial fascia. 3. Platisma myoides muscle. 4. Superficial fascia. 5. First bone of the sternum, sternal ex- tremity of the right clavicle, sterno-mastoid muscle, with its accompanying vein the sterno and inter-clavicular ligaments and anterior layer of deep cervical fascia. 6. Cellular tissue, fat, containing large vein and a gland; the second layer of deep cervical fascia. 7. Sterno-hyoid muscle. 8. Sterno-thyroid muscle. 9. Third layer of deep cervical fascia. 10. Cellular tissue containing the first cardiac nerve, right inferior thyroid, and left brachio-cephalic veins, glands, &c. Arrived opposite to the right sterno-clavicu- lar articulation and to the interval between the sternal and clavicular insertions of the sterno- mastoid muscle, the arteria innominata usually divides into the right carotid and subclavian arteries. It rarely gives off any branches ante- cedent to its division, but a small third branch is frequently observed proceeding from it to distribute itself in front of the trachea, and ter- minate in the thyroid gland. Mr. Harrison, in his work on the Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries, has named it the " middle thyroid artery." The French anatomists give M. Neubauer the credit of discovering it, and consequently term it " l'artere thyroidienne de Neubauer " It is, however, as frequently given off from the aorta between the arteria inno- minata and left carotid. When we consider the relation which the in- nominata bears to the important organs sur- rounding it, we can scarcely be at any loss to account for the apparently remote symptoms present in aneurism of this vessel; such, for instance, as oedema and blueness of the upper extremities, head and neck, cough, difficulty of breathing and swallowing, vertigo, failure 3 k 2