881 INSECTA. instances in which the life of the imago is ex- tended beyond the usual period, it appears to result from one of the great objects of existence being unaccomplished; the insect is always in a state of celibacy, in which condition the life of an ephemera may be extended to several days, and perhaps even to two or three weeks.* 1. Dermo-skeleton.—The skeleton of insects is formed of a modification of the external coverings of the body, together with certain ossified portions situated within the head and thorax, to which some of the most important muscles are attached. Hence it is called a dermo-skeleton. The true organs of support are thus placed on the exterior instead of the inte- rior of the body, and the solid skeleton, impact- ing the whole, as it were, in a coat of mail, gives additional strength to the delicate limbs by affording a larger surface for the attachment of muscles, while it more securely protects the bodies of these diminutive, but exquisitely formed little creatures, from the injuries to which they are constantly exposed. Thus, then, in the strength and position of the skeleton, in- sects have as striking affinities with the Chelo- nian Reptiles as they have, as we shall hereafter see, with Birds in the extent, distribution, and activity of their respiratory organs; and with the hibernating Mammalia in their maintaining an elevated temperature of body only when in a state of activity. Some naturalists, however, have contended that the analogies which were traced, first by our illustrious countryman Willis in the year 1692, and subsequently by Geoffroy St. Hilaire and other comparative anatomists, between the dermo-skeleton of in- sects and the proper skeleton of vertebrated ani- mals, are incorrect, and that the structure ought rather to be regarded as the analogue of the skin than as that of the osseous system, and hence they have compared it only with the nails, horns, and other appendages of the epi- dermis. These objections receive additional •weight and importance from the circumstance that one set of organs, the elytra, which form part of the hardened coverings, are actually de- rived from the respiratory structures. But it may be remarked in reply, that the skeleton of in- sects, both in its office and ultimate composition, resembles more the bones of Chelonian Reptiles, which, like it, are covered with a thin cuticular lamella, and placed on the exterior of the body, than the true skin or the epidermis. Hence we shall continue to regard and describe it as sub- servient to the same purposes in these diminu- tive creatures as the osseous system in vertebrata. This view of its real nature is justified, as we shall presently see, by analyses of its chemical constituents. The peculiar characteristic of bony structure is the presence of a large propor- tion of a particular kind of earthy matter, and this is also one of the great characteristics of the coverings of insects, which become consolidated during the changes, by the deposition of a quan- tity of the same kind of earthy matter within them. But we cannot regard the coverings thus formed as merely exsiccated non-vascular slruc- * Op. cit. p. 27. VOL. II. tures ; on the contrary, we believe them to be nourished by the circulatory fluids, perhaps to as great an extent as the external skeleton of Chelonia. In support of this opinion it may be remarked that those internal processes which exist in the perfect state, and are developed during the metamorphoses from duplicatures of the external tegument, perform most important offices in the body as organs of support and attachment for powerful muscles. It can hardly be imagined that these internal processes are not nourished by the circulatory fluids like the muscles that are attached to them, while it is well known that every part of the external covering is penetrated by ramifications of the air-vessels, the course of which in the wings has recently been shown to be always indicative of the passages along which the blood circulates.* Hence it is fair to infer that every part of the animal sup- plied with tracheae is also nourished by the cir- culatory fluid, as well in the exterior skeleton of the thorax and abdomen as in the hardened elytra and wings, in which the presence of the fluid has been actually detected by its movements. Chemical composition.—The peculiar sub- stance that constitutes the hard portion of the dermo-skeleton is called chitinc by Odier, and entomoline by Lassaigne. The most generally received name is chitine. M. Odier, who first analysed the coverings of insects, and disco- vered this substance,f found that it constitutes about one-fourth part of their whole weight, and that the remaining three parts consist of albumen, extractive matter soluble in water, a coloured oil soluble in alcohol, and a brown animal substance soluble in potass, but insolu- ble in alcohol. The latter substance, which exists in considerable quantity, was found by Lassaigne to be analogous to the peculiar ani- mal matter of cochineal, coccine, and that it forms the basis of the colouring; matter of the skeleton. The composition of chitine has been differently stated by chemists, but by all it has been shown to be perfectly distinct from horn, the nails, and other appendages of the epidermis, in being quite insoluble in a hot solution of caustic potass, and in not fusing or swelling up like horn when burnt at a red heat, but leaving a white ash, which retains the original form of the part. This sufficiently proves that the co- verings of insects cannot properly be compared with the mere epidermis or its appendages. According to Odier, chitine is obtained by di- gesting the hard parts of the skeleton in a hot solution of caustic potass, renewed several times, until it has ceased to have any action upon them. The solution, by removing the colouring matter and other constituents, be- comes of a deep brown, and leaves the chitine nearly as transparent as horn, without any change of form. This substance, as we have before stated, constitutes about one-third or fourth of the weight of the whole skeleton, and was believed by Odier to contain no nitrogen, * Bowerbank, Observations on the circulation of blood and the distribution of the trachea? in the win"- of Chrysopa perla, Ent. Mag. No. 17, Oct. 1836.° t Memoires de la Societe d'Hist. Natur. de Paris, torn. i. Zoological Journal, vol. i. p. 101, Mav.1824. 3 M