695 HERMAPHRODITISM. In attempting to determine the true sex in such doubtful instances of sexual formation as those which we have been now considering, we are inclined to attribute very little weight to the nature of the sexual desires of the malformed individual, as we have already found Adelaide Preville, the dissection of whose body shewed him to be in reality a man, living for some years before death in the capacity of a wife, and the same remark might be further illus- trated by a reference to Otto's and other cases. A species of spurious hermaphroditism simi- lar in character to that which we have just de- scribed in man, is occasionally met with in the males of our domestic quadrupeds, and has been amply illustrated, as it occurs in these animals, by Professor Gurlt in his work on Veterinary Medicine. In instances of this malformation among the animals to which we refer, the hypospadic male penis has usually been found of a tortuous and winding form and of small size. In the cases in which the fissure of the parts extends through the scrotum, a false vagina is seldom formed, as in man, for the scrotum in most quadrupeds lies too remote from the perineum, and consequently from the normal situation of the vagina, for this purpose; but in some examples this division appears to be carried upwards into the perinsum itself, leaving a vaginal-like opening, in which the urethra terminates. The testicles, as in man, are sometimes retained within the abdomen, and in other instances descend into the scrotum. They are frequently small in size. The mamma or udder seems to be often well developed. This variety of hermaphroditic malforma- tion has been met with in the horse by Pen- chenati;* in the he-goat by Haller;f and in the ram by the same author,J and by Wagner,§ Wepfer,|| Stark,1T Gurlt,** KauwBoerhaave,ft and A. Cooper.}! We have seen an excellent specimen of this malformation in the last- mentioned animal in the museum of Dr. Handyside of Edinburgh. In this instance the internal male organs are all perfect; the large testicles are situated in the halves of the split scrotum ; the penis is small and imperfo- rate, and a furrow running along its inferior surface is continued backwards and upwards along the perinaeum to within a short distance from the anus, where it leads into a canal, into which the urinary bladder and seminal ducts open. This canal is evidently formed of the dilated pelvic portion of the male urethra; its orifice is comparatively contracted, but corres- ponds in situation with the vulva of the fe- male. We have seen a second similar case in * Mem. de l'Acad. de Turin, torn. v. p. 18. t Comment. Soc. Keg. Sc. Getting, torn. i. p. 2, tab. i. t Ibid. p. 5, tab. ii. 6 Ephem. Nat. Curios. Cent. i. ii. p. 235. I) Miscell. Nat. Curios. Dec. i. An. iii. (1672,) p. 255. f Ibid. Dec. iii. Ann. v. vi., p. 669. ** Lehrbuch, p. 193. tt Nov. Comment. Acad. Petropolit. torn. i. (1750,) p. 315, tab. xi. tt Catalogue of Guy's Hospital Museum, No. 2546. the ram in the possession of Professor Dick of the Veterinary School of Edinburgh. There is another variety of malformation of the male parts occasionally found in quadru- peds, which is allied in its nature to the pre- ceding. In this second species all the exter- nal male sexual organs are small; the short penis lies, when not in a state of erection, upon the posterior surface of the enlarged udder, and the imperfectly developed testicles are ge- nerally retained within the abdomen; or, if they have passed out of that cavity, they are found situated in the substance of the udder. The vasa deferentia, prostate, aud Cowper's glands are usually of their normal size and ap- pearance. This imperfect hermaphroditic for- mation appears to be not rare among horses, several instances of it in this animal having been now described by Arnaud,* Gohier,f VoImar,J Pallas,§ Virey,|| and Gurlt.1T An- selmo** and Lecoqft nave met with this variety of malformation in the bull; and Sandford }J has described an instance in the calf which seems referable to the same head. Gurlt§§ also notices the preparation of an analogous case in the calf, as preserved in the museum at Berlin. II. TRUE HERMAPHRODITISM. True hermaphroditism exists as the normal type of sexual conformation in several classes of the vegetable and animal kingdom. Almost all phanerogamic plants, with the exception of those included under the class Dicecia, are fur- nished with both male and female reproductive organs, placed either upon the same flower, or, as in the Linnaean class Moncecia, upon different flowers in the same individual. In the class Polygamia various exceptional genera are included, that present indiscriminately upon the same individual, or upon different indivi- duals of the same species, male, female, and hermaphrodite flowers, and which thus form a kind of connecting link between the general hermaphroditic form of phanerogamic vegeta- bles, and the unisexual type of the monoecious flowers, and the dioecious plants. From anormalities in developement, these normal conditions of the sexual type in the different members of the vegetable kingdom are occasionally observed to be changed. Thus, among the Dicecia, individual plants are some- times, in consequence of a true malformation, observed to assume an hermaphroditic type of structure; or, on the other hand, in hermaphro- ditic plants more or fewer flowers are occa- * Arnaud sur les Hermaphrodites, p. 282. t Mem. et Observ. sur la Chir. et la Med. Vet. torn. i. p. 18. t Archiv. fur Thierheilkunde, Bd. iii. s. 292. § Ueschaft. der Gesellschaft naturforcb. Freunde zu Berlin, Bd. iii. s. 296. |J Journal Compl. des Sc. Med. torn. xv. p. 140. II Lehrbuch der Path. Anat. 13d. ii. p. 189 ; and tab. viii. fig. 6. ** Mem. del' Acad, des Sc. de Turin, torn. ix. p. 103. fig. 1-3. tt Journ. Prat, de Med. Vet. 1827, p. 102. tt Med. and Phys. Journal, vol. ii. p. 305, with two drawings. §§ Loc. cit. p. 191.