HEART. 602 It may be supposed that the relative size of the auriculo-ventricular orifices to the length of the lips of the valves would not admit of their apices being brought together in the form of a cone as described, but it must be remembered that from the course of the muscular fibres in the immediate neighbourhood of those open- ings, their areas must be diminished during the systole of the heart. There is at least one thing certain connected with the action of these valves, viz. that the contraction of the musculi papillares can never cause the valves to strike the inner surface of the ventricle and produce a sound as has been supposed. The manner in which the semilunar valves at the origin of the aorta and pulmonary artery perform their office is entirely mechanical and easily understood. During the systole of the heart they are thrown outwards from the axes of these vessels; but during its diastole, when part of the blood driven into the artery would fall back into the ventricles, these valves are thrown inwards and obstruct completely the whole calibre of the arteries. In all probability the sinuses of Valsalva placed behind these valves contain a certain quantity of blood even during the systole of the heart, and this re- acting upon the valves through the agency of the elast.city of the arteries brought into opera- tion at the termination of the systole, materially assists in producing the more rapid and certain action of the valves. Movements of the heart.—The heart is a muscle of involuntary motion, being, for the wisest of purposes, placed beyond the direct control of volition. The case of Colonel Townshend* is of too obscure a nature to entitle us to found upon it an opposite doc- trine, more particularly as it is at direct variance with every other fact or observation. The movements of the heart, when the body is at rest or in a state of health, proceed with- out our consciousness. In certain cases of disease they are attended by uneasy feelings, but they are never at any time or under any circumstances dependent upon sensation for their continuance. It is not so easy a matter as may at first be imagined to ascertain the order of succession in which the different cavities of the heart con- tract and dilate, and the different circum- stances which attend these movements, even by experiments on living animals, more par- ticularly the warm-blooded animals ; for if the heart when exposed is acting vigorously and rapidly, every one who has examined for him- self must have felt the exceeding difficulty of following and analysing these movements by right ventricle is, in any material degree, tempo- rarily distended or permanently dilated, the heart and lungs are relieved by a considerable reflux of the ventricle's contents into the auricle and sys- temic veins." In experiments upon the lower animals I have repeatedly seen the right ventricle, when gorged with blood and acting feebly, empty itself through an opening in the jugular vein. Bdinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. 1836. * Cheyne's English Malady, p. 307. 1734, London. the eye. If, on the other hand, the animal has become debilitated and the movements of the heart languid, these are apt to deviate from their natural order, and to be performed in an irregular and unnatural manner.* It is in this way that, we can account not only for the dis- crepant statements of the older observers, but also for the very frequent announcement of new views on this subject which appear in the medical periodicals of our own day. As we will find that many of these theories connected with the physiological actions of the heart even in the present day, have been founded upon false notions of the normal anatomy and na- tural movements of the organ, and only require a reference to these for their full and satis- factory refutation, it will be necessary that we attend particularly to the manner in which these different contractions and relaxations suc- ceed each other, and the visible phenomena by which they are accompanied, as observed by the most accurate experimenters. When the heart of a living animal is ex- posed and the organ is acting in a natural manner, the auricles are observed to become distended with blood, then to contract rapidly and simultaneously, and propel part of it into the ventricles; this is accompanied with a corresponding enlargement of the ventricles, which is immediately followed by their simul- taneous contraction and the propulsion of their blood along the large arteries: then follows a pause, during which the auricles become gra- dually distended by the blood flowing along the veins. When the auricles are filled, they again contract, and the same train of pheno- mena just described occur in uniform succes- sion. Systole and diastole of the auricles.— The contraction or systole of the auricles is pre- ceded by their relaxation or diastole. During the diastole the auricles become distended with the blood flowing along the veins. The com- mencement of the diastole occurs during the contraction of the ventricles; the latter part corresponds to the pause in the heart's action, and to the interval between the recurrence of the sounds of the heart, and is more or less long in proportion as the blood flows more or less rapidly along the veins. The systole of the auricles is performed with great rapidity when the action of the heart is still vigorous, and appears to be effected by the simultaneous contraction of all its fibres. The terminations of the cavae and pulmonary veins are seen to contract simultaneously with the fibres of the auricles, but sometimes they are seen to contract previous to the auricles, into which they expel their blood. In the cold- blooded animals this contraction of the ter- minations of the large veins extends over a greater surface, and is visible in the venae he- * The illustrious Harvey thus describes the dif- ficulties which he experienced in his first attempts to analyse the movements of the heart: " ita ut modo hinc systolem, illinc diastolem, modo c con- tra, modo varios, modo confusos fieri motus me existimarem cerncre."