972 INSECTA. Alimentary canal of Lucanus cervus. G, anterior muscles of the pharynx; H, oeso- phagus -, I, gizzard ; K, chylific stomacli; L, ilium ; M, colon (ccecal portion of) ; N, colon ; O, rectum ; a, frontal ganglion on the vagus ; b, vagus ; c, an- terior lateral ganglion connected to the vagus. longest. These are evidently analogous to the vessels in Blatta. But one of the most remarkable forms of alimentary canal with reference to the habits of the insect exists in the male Lucanus cervus (Jig. 428), which subsists entirely upon fluid aliment, as proved by the observations of natu- ralists, and confirmed by the fact that its mouth is unfitted for mastication. In this insect the oesophagus (H) is usually long and narrow, and terminates in the meso-thorax in a well deve- loped gizzard (I), as in the Carabus, and this is succeeded by a long chylific stomach (K), covered throughout its whole extent by very minute rudimentary coeca, as first noticed by Dufour. It makes three distinct convolutions, and is then divided by a pylorus, which re- ceives four hepatic vessels (P) from an ex- ceedingly short ilium (L), which passes directly in an enormous colon. The upper portion of this(M) is divided from the lower (N), which is thus divided into colon and ccecum. It ter- minates in a long folded rectum (N, O), and the whole are usually filled with faeces. Now this insect, in which both gizzard and gastric vessels are present, can scarcely require these parts for the purpose of triturating its food, which is entirely fluid, besides which, being one of those species that undergo a complete metamorphosis, it can scarcely be supposed to be simply a remains of what existed in the larva state. The presence of the gizzard may be looked upon as somewhat anomalous. Again it may be remarked, that in Hymenoptera the stomach, which in many species digests only liquid concentrated food in the form of honey, is much longer than in those instances, as in Orthoptera, in which the food is less easily digestible. In the Apid<e there is a large alimentary canal with an immense number of biliary vessels attached to it, while in the Tentliredinifke, which, besides honey, subsist partly upon the pollen of flowers, as we have observed in Athalia centifolia, there is a very short alimentary canal and even a distinct gizzard (Jig. 429, I), situated between the Fig. 429. Section of the crop (H), gizzard (I), awl stomach (K) of Athalia centifolia;. (Newport, Prize JEssuy). stomach (K) and the dilated oesophagus (II) or crop of this order. We have detected pollen in the proventriculus of this insect, so that in these we have still further proof that the length of the canal is not always indicatory of the habits of the species. In the Lepidoptera, which, we have seen, in the larva state have a short intestine, have a com- paratively long one in the perfect. In the Sphinx ligustri (fig. 430), the oesophagus (/>) is long and narrow, and in the metathoracic seg- ment is dilated into a large crop (t) connected by a distinct neck, but not divided from it by a valve. This is usually filled with air, and has thence been called the sucking stomach, but in the Diptera, in which it also exists, and com- mencing much nearer the pharynx is extended backwards as a long and gradually enlarging tube until it reaches the anterior part of the abdomen, where it is expanded transversely into a large bag, we have certainly found it partially filled with food. This has often been found to be the case in the common flesh-fly. In EristalisJloreus(1) we have found it partially filled with yellow pollen from the flowers of the ragwort, upon which the insect was cap- tured. We have at the same time observed