409 ORGANS OF GENERATION. future observations to determine more accu- rately the mode of reproduction in the corti- ciferous polypes, -which is a subject at present involved in much contradiction and obscurity. Taking this view of the subject, we find, upon cursorily glancing over the ovigerous classes of animals, that important modifications of structure in the generative system render further classification necessary. In the lower forms, ovigerous organs only have been dis- covered, in which the ova are secreted, and when matured, escape from the body, fit in every respect for the production of a new animal. In other instances, in addition to the apparatus immediately appropriated to the de- velopement of the ova, we find a superadded portion destined to furnish a secretion which is essential to their fertility, forming an apparatus of impregnation. Sometimes the impregnating organs are found in every individual, appended to the ovigerous parts, rendering each creature sufficient for the impregnation of its own ova: in other instances, although each animal pos- sesses both ovigerous and impregnating or- gans, the cooperation of two individuals or more is necessary to fertility; and in other cases again, the apparatus which furnishes the ova, and that destined to the production of the im- pregnating fluid, are found in distinct indivi- duals, distinguished by the appellations of male and female: we shall accordingly di- vide all oviparous animals into the following groups:— 1. Such as are provided with ovigerous organs only. 2. Animals having, in addition to the ovige- rous apparatus, a glandular structure, the secretion of which is probably subservient to the fertility of the ova. 3. Ovigerous and impregnating organs, co- existent in each individual, but the cooperation of two or more needful for mutual impregna- tion. 4. The ovigerous and impregnating appa- ratus existing in distinct individuals. First Division.—Animals in which ovigerous organs only have been distinctly recognized. It would seem from the observations of Ehrenberg that some of the Polygastrica be- long to this division, although the exact nature of the generative system in such species remains still a matter of uncertainty. In the Kolpoda Cucullus the spawn consists of a loose mass of ova, connected by delicate filaments, from which the young are gradually evolved after their extrusion from the parent animalcule, and some of the parenchymatous Entozoa appear to be similarly circumstanced. In the Acalepha;, at least in such as have been most attentively examined, the generative system conforms to the type at present under consideration. From the researches of Gaede and Eysenhardt it appears that the ovaria are four in number, disposed in a cruciform manner upon the dorsal aspect of the body or that which is opposite to the mouth. These ovaria, which at certain seasons of the year are re- markably distended and often beautifully VOL. II. coloured, open into the interior of the stomach- The young Medusae are hatched in the ovaria, and afterwards escaping into the alimentary canals excavated in the substance of the body, acquire in that situation a very perfect state of development, and are ultimately excluded through the oral aperture, or in the llhizosto- matous species through the ramified canals of the pedicle. In the fleshy polypes (Actinia?) the ovigerous system consists of long, convoluted filiform tubes, contained between the stomach and the parietes of the body, and separated by partitions which divide that space into compartments. These tubes are attached by a delicate mesen- tery, and according to Spix open in an irregular manner into the digestive cavity, into which the ova escape. The period or mode in which the eggs are hatched is unknown, but that the young escape fully formed and in every point resembling their parent through the stomachal orifice is attested botli by Dicquemare and Blainville.* The different forms of Echinodermata pre- sent a similar simple arrangement of the gene- rative apparatus. In the Asteriadcs each ray is furnished with two clusters of short ovigerous tubes, which are closed at one extremity, but open at the other into a cavity common to each group. These organs open by a series of aper- tures placed around the circumference of the mouth at the base of each ray. In the spring these ovaria are distended with eggs of a reddish-brown colour, which are expelled in clusters and left upon the beach exposed to the influence of the sun, where they are ulti- mately hatched.f The radiated type of structure is likewise manifest in the disposition of the generative organs of the Ecbinida?: in these the ovaria are never single cr simply bilobed, but are at least four in number, or, as is generally the case, five. Each ovigerous organ consists of a simple dilated sacculus, which at certain seasons is distended with ova, and at such times in some species, as in the edible Echinus, the eggs are sought after as an article of food. The ovaria open externally by a corresponding number of simple apertures, which are placed around the anal orifice when it is central, but otherwise are considerably removed from this point. Nothing analogous to a male apparatus has been detected in the Echinida. The eggs are deposited in spring in the recesses of rocks or among the fucus which covers them ; and before they are hatched the young may be dis- covered in the interior partially covered with a calcareous shell, the rest of the integument still remaining membranous. * Spix and Delle Chiajc assert that there are other filiform tubes mixed up with the ovarian ducts, which they regard as the testes, but neither the observations of other authors nor our own exami- nations confirm this view of the subject. t Tischer and Spix describe a singular flexuous intestiniform organ which is found upon the dorsal aspect of the stomach as a male apparatus, and Blainville considers this part as in some degree connected with generation. 2 E