35 ECHINODERMATA. other cases, as A. rubens, there are two double rows (Jig. 7, b,) in every ray, and each foot has a round undivided vesicle (Jigs. 12 and 16, d). The canals or vessels which convey the fluid to and from the feet are all connected with a circular vessel situated in the vicinity of the mouth. This vessel (Jigs. 12 and 22, i, i,) lies immediately within the calcareous ring already described as connecting the rays at their com- mencement ; from it a straight canal proceeds along the floor of each ray in the median line, and in its progress gives off lateral branches which open into the vesicles of the feet. There are moreover connected with the circular ves- sel,—first, a certain number of bodies (ten in five-rayed species) which Tiedemann com- pares to glands (Jigs. 12 and 22, m, m); they are very small, brown, sacculated organs, each opening by a small orifice into the circular vessel; Tiedemann supposes them to be the source from which the fluid filling the feet is derived. Secondly, pyriform sacs; mA.au- rantiaca there are four groups of these (Jig. 22, k); and each group consists of three or four sacs which open by a common tubular pedicle into the circular vessel. In some other species there are five simple sacs. They are muscular, and Tiedemann conceives them to be the chief agents by which the fluid is forced into the vesicles of the feet, to which they are placed in a sort of antagonism. It would seem, however, that this purpose may be accomplished by other means, for according to Meckel's statement, and, we may add, our own observation, they are not present in all species. Lastly, the circular vessel receives the singular organ named the stone canal or sand canal by Tiedemann, (figs. 12 and 22, S,) who describes it as a membranous eanal con- taining a friable mass of sandy or earthy matter, which commences by a wide origin on the inferior or internal surface of the calcareous disk (Jigs. 12 and 16, z,) already described as situate on the upper part of the body, descends in a duplicature of fibrous membrane, and opens by a narrow orifice into the circular vessel, the upper or wide end being closed by the disk. Ehrenberg has correctly remarked that this organ is not filled with an amorphous mass of earthy or cretaceous matter; he de- scribes it as exhibiting a dense network of calcareous fibres with hexagonal and penta- gonal meshes, resembling in some respects the cavernous structure of the penis. The result of our own examination in more than one species is different still. We have always found the earthy matter forming a jointed cal- careous tube. This tube, which is about the thickness of a surgeon's probe, is composed of rings of calcareous substance connected by membrane, so that viewed externally it is not unlike the windpipe of a small animal. On cutting it across, however, it is found to be more complex in structure than appears exter- nally, for it contains within, two convoluted lamince of the same nature as its calcareous parietes (fig.\3). These lamina? are rolled lon- gitudinally; they rise conjointly or as one, from Portion of the sand canal of Asterias rubens, magnified. Fig. 13. the internal surface of the tube, pass inwardly a cer- tain way, then separating are rolled in opposite di- rections ; something after the same manner as the inferior turbinated bone of the ox. These internal laminae become more con- voluted towards the upper end, where at last they, as well as the more external part of the tube, join the dorsal disk, appearing gra- dually to -become conti- nuous with its substance. The disk is perforated with numerous pores which open into the tube. Tiedemann con- ceives the function of the sand canal to be that of secreting the earthy matter required for the growth of the calcareous skeleton. Meckel considered this view as very improbable, and the description we have given does not tend to corroborate it. We must confess ourselves unable to offer more than mere conjecture as to the use of this singular structure. If the fluid contained in the feet and their vessels be sea- water, (either pure or with an admixture of organic particles,) which is probable from its chemical composition, may it not be intro- duced and perhaps again discharged through the pores of the disk and the calcareous tube, the porous disk serving as a sort of filter to exclude impurities ? In the Echinus the feet are disposed in ver- tical rows running from the anal orifice towards the mouth; and the corresponding rows of apertures (fig. 10, e, e,) thus diverging from a point have been compared to garden-walks, and named ambulacra. In most cases the feet extend all the way to the inferior opening of the shell, but in some genera they stop short before reaching this point. There are ten rows disposed in five pairs. The tubular part of each foot communicates with the interior of the shell by two branches which pass through two aper- tures. These branches in some species (as E. sexatalis) communicate directly with the canals which convey the fluid to the feet; in others (as E. esculentus) they open into a plexus of vessels, by the intervention of which they are connected with the canals. The plex- uses of vessels alluded to are formed in leaf- like membranes (Jig. \A,d,d, representing two of them magnified,) which are of equal num.- Fig. 14. ber with the feet, and of course disposed in d 2