940 INSECTA. phoses in the position of parts of the tegu- mentary skeleton, to which the muscles aie attached. Hence the direction in which thtse muscles are now required to act is also cl anged, and from constituting, as in the larv;t, 01 ly one continuous series of uniform mmcles, acting in one direction, in the perfect insect they become muscles that act in several direc- tions, at different angles of the body, and in some parts exceed in importance and size every other division of the muscular system. Thus, in the thoracic region, the dorsal mus- cles, which were parts least employed in the larva, are those which are of the greatest im- portance in the perfect insect, both as regards size and function. In the larva, as we have seen, locomotion depends chiefly upon the ab- dominal recti; but in the perfect insect, on the contrary, nearly the whole of this power is transferred to the dorsal muscles of the thorax. Hence the arrangement of these muscles is more or less intricate, and differs in different classes, according to the habits of the insects. Thus, in those classes in which the prothorax is short, and almost or entirely anchylosed to the meso-thorax, as in the Hymenoptera, Lepi- doptera, and Diptera, and in which, conse- quently, scarcely any motion of the prothoracic segment is required, the muscles become al- most entiiely atrophied and cease to exist, or, as is sometimes the case, their attachments are transferred to a different part of the tegumen- tary skeleton. The most generally developed form of the muscular system of the thorax is found in the Coleoptera, of which Straus has given so admira- ble an illustration in his anatomy of Melolontha. It is from his description of the muscles of that insect that we shall chiefly derive our general description of these parts in perfect insects. We shall, however, for the sake of uniformity, adopt the nomenclature applied to these parts by liurmeister, identifying it with the names originally employed by Straus. The muscles that connect the head with the thorax are contained within the prothorax (fig. 402,2), and are of three kinds, extensors,Jlexors, and retractors. The extensors, levatures capitis (a, a), consist of two pairs, one of which arises from the middle line of the pronotum, and diverging laterally from its fellow of the oppo- site side, passes directly forwards and is in- serted by a narrow tendon into the anterior superior margin of the occipital foramen. The other arises further back from the prophragma. It is a long narrow muscle that passes directly forwards through the prothorax, and is inserted by a tendon near the superior median line of the foramen; so that while this muscle and its fellow of the opposite side elevate the head almost in a straight line, the one first described, when acting alone or singly, draws the head a little on one side; but when the whole of these muscles act in unison, they simply elevate the head upon the prothorax. The depressors or flexors, depressores capitis (b), are exceedingly short muscles, which arise from the jugular plate, or, when that part does not exist, from the border of the pro-sternum, and are attached Fig. 402. Section of the body of Melolontha. (Straus.) to the inferior margin of the occipital foramen. They simply flex the head on the prothorax. The lateral flexors, depressores externi id), are two little muscles that arise from the same point as the preceding, and are attached to the lateral inferior margin of the occipital foramen. The rotatory muscles, rutatures capitis (c), are two flat muscles like the elevators, which arise, one at the side of the ante-furca and the other from the posterior jugular plate, and passing up- wards and outwards are attached to the lateral margin of the occipital foramen. The retractor or flexor of the jugular plate is a small muscle (e) that arises from the margin of the ante-furca, and passing directly forwards is inserted by a small tendon into the middle of the jugular piece. The oblique extensor of the jugular plate is a long slender muscle (/) that arises from the external margin of the pronotum, and passing obliquely downwards and forwards traverses the prothorax and is inserted by a narrow tendon to the jugular plate immediately