ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 802 upon the upper surface of its head which supports the acetabulum in standing and pro- gression. The form of the head of the bone becomes changed and flattened from above downwards ; something like a bending or yielding of the neck of the bone may now be observed, and sometimes the inferior part of the circumference of the head of the femur is so mucl) depressed that the under surface of the head has approached to the lesser trochanter. Fig. 317. Upon a cursory examination, it looks as if the " head of the bone were forced downwards by the action of some great pressure from above, and cases have occurred in which at last the head of the femur seemed to have sunk even below the level of the great trochanter, and to be supported by the lesser." (B. Bell.) But besides these which we attribute to the effects of physical causes, there is, in the con- templation of the morbid results of this chronic disease of the hip-joint, sufficient to satisfy us that a very active vital process is going on in the interior of the bones, as well as in all the structures around the diseased joint. The Ihickening of the fibrous capsule, and hyper- amic state of the synovial structures, the exu- berant growth of bone which we see around deepening the acetabulum, or surrounding its brim with bony nodules; the enlargement of the head of the femur, so as to make this head assume an oval convex surface, measuring in circumference ten inches and a half, as in the specimen from which the drawing (Jig. 317) was taken, all these are sufficient proofs that besides the inlerstitial absorption going on in the interior of the cervix femoris in these cases, a very active condition of the minute arteries exists externally, giving birth to those exostotic deposits which encircle the head and inter- trochanteric lines of the femur. It has been remarked, and we think with much truth, that those specimens which have been frequently produced and mistaken for united fracture of the neck of the femur, have been examples of interstitial absorption of the neck of this bone combined with external exostotic deposits; but these mistakes, however, we trust are not here- after likely to occur. Section 111. Accident.—The hip-joint is, of course, like the other articulations, liable to sprains and to contusions. These do not re- quire any special notice here; but fractures and luxations of the bones of this important articulation demand from us full consideration. I. Fractures.—Fractures of the os innomi- natum may traverse the bottom or fundus of the acetabulum, or some portion of the brim of this articular cavity may have been broken off. 1. Fracture of the acetabulum. A. Fracture of its fundus.—When fracture of the bones of the pelvis happens to traverse the bottom of the acetabulum, the prognosis is unfavourable, as it is in all cases of fracture of the bones of the pelvis. When this fracture through the fundus of the acetabulum is the consequence of a fall on the feet, knees, or trochanter major of the femur, it sometimes happens that the head and neck of the femur unbroken are driven into the cavity of the pelvis. " Nous avons observe," says Dupuytren, " plusieurs fois, l'enfonce- ment de la cavite cotyloide par la pression exercee par la tete du femur, a la suite d'une chute surle pied ou lesgenoux." In this case, the head of the femur is driven with force against the fundus of the acetabulum, and the latter breaks, and is crushed in, " enfonce." The most remarkable case observed by Dupuytren was the following:—" The bottom of the cotyloid cavity had been driven in, and the head of the femur had passed entirely into the pelvis. The neck, which had not suffered any solution of continuity, was so strongly engaged in the opening, that, even when making the anatomi- cal examination, I found it very difficult to disengage it, and to reduce this new species of luxation."* As these important remarks of Dupuytren are not accompanied by all the detail that is to be desired, where novel obser- vations are reported, we shall here adduce the following case of fracture of the fundus of the acetabulum, with displacement of the head of the femur into the pelvis. Death occurred on the fortieth day after the injury, from diffuse inflammation. An opportunity was afforded to us of investigating anatomically the precise na- ture of the lesions in this case. On the 3rd of December, 1834, a man, named William Sherlock, set. 26, a painter by trade, was admitted into Jervis-street Hospital, under the care of the late Mr. Wallace. A few minutes before his admission, this poor man had fallen from a ladder, from a height reported to be fifty feet, on the flags of the street. On the next day, the 4th of December, when he had recovered from the insensibility and collapse which had succeeded to the fall, we found him complaining of intense pain of the right hip. He was quite unable to move the right thigh, and would not permit any exa- mination of the hip, as the slightest movement communicated to the limb produced intense agony. The integuments covering the tro- chanter were discoloured, and there was much swelling around the hip-joint. The right or injured extremity was two inches shorter than the left, which circumstance he attributed to a * Lemons Orales.