311 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. cause no such influence exists; and indeed the data upon which it has been assumed, instead of proving the position, leave it precisely as it was; for insomuch as the occurrence of the phenomena upon the section prove the exist- ence of the influence of the nerve, in the same degree does the absence of the phenomena upon the section of the nerve disprove it. But was the inflammation caused by the section of the nerve? This question, which cer- tainly ought to have been determined satisfac- torily before a theory had been founded upon the assumption, appears to the writer to have been decided too hastily in the affirmative. If the section were the cause, no sufficient reason can be assigned why it should occasion inflam- mation in one part, to which the nerve is distri- buted, and not in another, yet such is the case; the eye is the only part in which inflammation supervenes, either so uniformly or so quickly as to afford any ground for attributing the pro- cess to the section. In the second place, were the section the real and essential cause, it can- not be supposed either on the one hand that non-essential circumstances could influence, or at all events prevent the effect, or on the other, that they could produce it. Now it will pre- sently appear that both the one and the other may take place; and a comparison of Magen- die's experiments and their results would alone suffice to shew that the real cause is to be sought elsewhere than in the section of the nerve. Magendie divided the nerve in three different situations; first, through the temporal fossa; secondly, within the cranium, between the Gasserian ganglion and the pons Varolii ; and thirdly, at the margin of the fourth ventri- cle ; and his own general account of the results, which has been already cited, is as follows : *f those alterations in the nutrition of the eye are the less complete, the less rapid, as we recede more from the point of branching of the nerves of the fifth pair, and as we cut, within the cra- nium, its fasciculus of origin the nearer to its insertion ; finally, the section on the margin of the fourth ventricle no longer produces any alteration." It is plain, then, that the nerve may be cut, and the changes in the eye ensue or not, according to circumstances to be yet explained. On the other hand, that effects similar in kind, if not equal in degree, may be produced by circumstances not essential to their production,—according to the doctrine main- tained, but incidentally associated with the supposed cause,—that such effects may be pro- buccal membrane." In neither of those extracts is there mention of inflammation or sloughing ; and the ulceration which is mentioned, is attributed to another cause than the section of the nerve. On the other hand, the writer has frequently divided the lingual branches of the fifth nerve and pre- served the animals for months afterward, and he has been unable to detect any change in the condi- tion of the tongue, except this, that in some the tip of the organ, from being allowed to remain between the teeth, and thus to be exposed to injury, ulce- rated, and this continued until the tip was re- moved, when the extremity of the organ healed, and it appeared to be in all other respects as before. duced by such circumstances, when dissociated from the other and operating separately, the author feels justified in asserting, from the re- sult of some experiments lately made by him- self, which lead to the conclusion that similar effects may be produced without the section of the nerve at all, and that an injury in the vici- nity of the orbit may excite them though nei- ther the trunk of the fifth itself, nor its ophthal- mic division have been divided. In an endea- vour to determine the nerves of taste, he under- took the removal of the ganglion of Meckel from the dog; in order to accomplish this it was necessary to displace the zygoma and the coro- noid process of the jaw; he attempted it seve- ral times before he succeeded, and failed at different stages of the operation ; but in almost every instance the eye of the same side became bleared within the next two days. The animal kept it nearly closed: a whitish puriform mat- ter was discharged from it, in quantity propor- tioned to the case, which concreted between the lids; and the animal made no attempt to remove the matter or cleanse the eye: the affec- tion of the eye was always proportioned to the violence done, and abated with the inflamma- tion of the wound ; and in one of the instances in which the ganglion was removed, it actually produced opacity of the cornea, and ulceration in that structure, which continued after the lapse of more than a month from the operation; yet most assuredly neither infra-orbital nor ophthalmic nerves had been divided. Thus, if, on the one hand, the nerve may be cut and the changes not ensue, on the other it may be left uncut, and the changes may occur. It may be objected that the effects here de- scribed fall very far short of those which took place in the experiments of Magendie. That they fall short of those which occurred on the division of the nerve in the temporal fossa is quite true, but it is equally so that they far ex- ceed those consequent upon the section at the margin of the fourth ventricle. The objection, therefore, would be devoid of weight, and if we suppose superadded to the violence already done when the nerves are not divided, the ad- ditional violence necessarily inflicted in the division of them, we shall have a ready expla- nation furnished of the higher degree to which the effects produced amount in one case than in the other. From the preceding considerations it appears to the author necessary to infer,that the changes which supervene in the eye after the section of the fifth nerve in certain cases, take place inde- pendently of the section, as the primary, imme- diate, or proper cause; for were it otherwise, it cannot be supposed either that the difference of half an inch to one side or the other, as re- gards the point of section, could so influence the cause as to prevent or allow these changes, or that they could occur, even in degree, without it. How, then, are the phenomena to be ex- plained? It has been said by Magendie that they are less marked the more we recede from the point of branching of the nerve; but it is to be further observed, that, as we recede from the point of branching of the nerve, we recede