GENERATION. 438 The following table is intended to exhibit a synoptical view of the various forms of the Fissiparous Gemmiparous .. Hermaphrodite. Dioecious III. REPRODUCTIVE FUNCTION IN MAN AND THE HIGHER. ANIMALS. 1. Sketch of this Junction in man.—In now proceeding to a more detailed account of the function of generation, our description must be confined to the process of reproduction in the human species and in those animals which are most nearly allied to man. The following may be mentioned as the principal steps of the reproductive process in the female of the human species. The human offspring is derived from an egg like that of all the more perfect animals. The egg is gradually formed in the Graafian vesicle of the ovary at the period of maturity. In productive sexual union the vagina and uterus receive a certain quantity of the male seminal fluid, and a series of changes are induced in the female generative system which have the effect of dislodging one or more ova from their residence in the ovary, and of bringing these ova into contact with the seminal fluid, in order that they may be fecundated or rendered fruitful. The mechanism of the discharge of the ova is the following. The Graafian vesicle swells, and bursts at its most prominent part. The ovum escaping from its interior is received by the fimbriated cavity at the commencement of the Fallopian tube, along which tube it gradually passes until it reaches the interior of the uterus, where it arrives probably in ten or twelve days after sexual union. There is every reason to believe that before the ovum reaches the uterus it has already been exposed in some part of the genital organs to the influence of the male semen, and that it is consequently fecundated. We shall have occasion after- wards to inquire more minutely into the place and manner of this fecundation. The female is now said to have conceived or to be impreg- nated, and the ovum to be fecundated. We shall endeavour, for the sake of clearness, to bring the history of the steps of this process reproductive process occurring in different classes of animals. Parent splits, each part a new animal. 1. Transverse. 2. Longitudinal. 3. Irregular. Parent splits and discharges the young. Budding upon the parent stock. Separated buds. Gemmae or sporules. 1. On all parts of the body. 2. On one part or organ only. Both sexual organs on one individual. 1. Self-impregnation. 2. Mutual impregnation. Oviparous, laying eggs which are hatched. 1. External fecundation. 2. Internal fecundation. Ovo-viviparous. Eggs hatched within the maternal body. Mammiferous, suckling the young. 1. Monotrematous. 2. Marsupial. 3. Placental or strictly vivi- parous. under the three distinct heads of, first, the changes of conception as regards the female, secondly, the process of fecundation as relating to the male, and thirdly, the effects of the union of the male and female product. Before the ovum reaches the uterus a change has already commenced in the interior of that organ, which in its farther progress has for its object to bring about an organic union between the uterus and the foetus with its coverings. The minute embryo soon becomes visible in the ovum, has envelopes formed over it which become connected with the lining membrane of the uterus, and as it advances in growth continually receives a supply of nourishment from the bloodvessels of the uterus. It is nourished in this way during the whole of its intra-uterine life, at the termination of which the child is brought into the world or born, being expelled from the uterus by those pain- ful efforts and contractions of the uterus con- stituting parturition or labour. The child is row capable of being nourished by digestion of food in the stomach, independently of any organic connexion with the mother, and breathes air by its lungs. Although all or- ganic connexion, however, between the mother and child is now dissolved, yet the infant is for a time dependent on the mother for nou- rishment, receiving by sucking from the mam- ma- the milk, which it assimilates by its own independent powers. In the present article our object is to describe only the processes of conception and fecundation, referring to the article Ovum for an account of the growth of the foetus, and to the articles Uterus, Ovary, &c. for the more minute anatomical and functional relations of these organs in the unimpregnated and impregnated states. Organs of reproduction.—The organs of reproduction in both sexes are frequently divi- ded by anatomists into external and internal, according as they are situated more or less near