49T GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL NERVE. portions. One or generally more of these pha- ryngeal branches perforate the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and can be traced partly downwards up- on the middle constrictor, partly upwards upon the superior constrictor and mucous membrane of the fauces, and also partly forwards upon the surface of the tonsils. 1 have traced one of these pharyngeal branches through the posterior part of the hyo-glossus muscle into the mucous membrane at the side of the posterior part of the tongue. These pharyngeal branches, by their anastomoses with the pharyngeal branches of the par vagum and pharyngeal branches of the sympathetic, form what is called the pha- ryngeal plexus of nerves!* A distinct swelling is frequently found over the internal carotid artery, formed by the confluence of the princi- pal pharyngeal branches of the glosso-pharyn- geus, of the superior pharyngeal branch of the par vagum, and the pharyngeal branches of the superior ganglion of the sympathetic. This swelling varies considerably in size and appear- ance. Huberf describes a small ganglion in the pharyngeal plexus. Haase^ shortly de- scribes this swelling as a gangliform enlarge- ment. Wrisberg;§ states that a ganglion, of the size of the ophthalmic, is placed at the conflu- ence of these nerves. Scarpa|| describes and figures it as a gangliform plexus more particu- larly connected with the pharyngeal branch of the par vagum. Wutzer^f states that he has been unable to detect this pharyngeal ganglion. Kilian** and Arno!d,tf but more particularly Rilian, figure it as a plexus. Though I would not deny the occasional existence of a small ganglion in this region, yet I believe it will be found that this swelling is generally formed by the cellular tissue binding together these branches as they anastomose with and cross each other.\t Lingual branches.—After the trunk of the nerve lias furnished the pharyngeal branches, it sends off from its concave side some small twigs upon the surface of the tonsils. It then forms the lingual portion of the nerve, passes into the base of the tongue below the stylo- glossus and posterior margin of the hyo-glossus muscle, where it divides into three or four branches. The superior of these is principally distributed upon the posterior part of the sides of the tongue, and sends some twigs backwards upon the palato-glossus muscle and mucous membrane of the fauces, where they anastomose with the other tonsillitic twigs. The middle part of the termination of the nerve passes * A small twig from the hypo-glossal nerve can sometimes be traced into this plexus. As the su- perior pharyngeal branch of the par vagum is partly formed by the spinal accessory, this last nerve must assist in the formation of this plexus. t Op. cit. p. 18. X De Nervo phrenico dextri lateris duplici, &c. Ludwig, torn. iii. p. 115. § Op. cit. p. 58. jj Tabulae Neurologicae, plate 2. 1 Op. cit. p. 91. ** Op. cit. tab. ii. fig. 5. tt Op. cit. tab. iv. XX The glosso-pharyngeal in the dog is generally considerably increased in size where the principal pharyngeal branches are given off. VOL. II. through the lingualis and hyo-glossus muscles to reach the mucous membrane and papilla; at the side of the base of the tongue. The re- mainder of the nerve perforates the genic-hyo- glossus to reach the mucous membrane and papilla? in the middle of the base of the tongue. The distribution of these twigs is confined to the mucous surface at the base of the tongue, and do not extend beyond an inch in front of the foramen coecum. They pass through the muscles of the tongue without giving any fila- ments to them.* Tonsillitic twigs.—The different twigs of this nerve which we have described as passing to the tonsils, form„an intricate plexus, posterior to and around these bodies, which has been called the circulus tonsillaris. These tonsillitic twigs are ultimately intermixed with the as- cending filaments of the pharyngeal branch of the par vagum, and pass in considerable num- bers to the isthmus of the fauces and soft palate. They anastomose also with the pos- terior palatine branches of the second branch of the fifth pair, and, according to Wrisberg,f with a filament from the third branch of the fifth. In repeated dissections, both upon the hu- man subject and the dog, I have found, in tracing the branches of this nerve to their ulti- mate distribution upon the pharynx and fauces, that those branches of the glosso-pharyngeal which do not anastomose with the pharyngeal branch of the par vagum are principally distri- buted upon the mucous membrane, and that comparatively a small number of these fila- ments seem to terminate in the muscular fibre. The uncombined twigs of the pharyngeal branches of the par vagum are, on the other hand, distributed entirely to the muscular fibre. In a dissection of this kind care must be taken to select those twigs only which proceed to their distribution without exchanging filaments with any other nerve. It can be made more favourably in the dog than in the human spe- cies. The glosso-pharyngeus is still distri- buted upon the tongue in birds, in the frog, and certain of the amphibia, while this organ receives no branch from the fifth pair, and from this circumstance it has been considered the nervus gustatorius of these animals.J In fishes there is a branch of the par vagum called glosso-pharyngeal, which escapes from the base of the cranium by a separate opening, and is distributed upon the gills, and also upon the tongue as far as the skin of the mouth. Physiology.—It is only to the labours of anatomists and physiologists within the last few years that we are to look for any thing * In tracing these nerves, it has appeared to me that a few minute filaments terminate in the mus- cles of the tongue, but these are exceedingly few and small. The statement of Wrisberg, that the deep branches of the lingual portion of the glosso- pharyngeal are distributed to the muscles of the tongue, is opposed to the observations of the best anatomists, who have since his time examined the ultimate distribution of this nerve. + Op. cit. p. 51. X Handbuch der Physiologie, etc. ErstcrBand, p. 590, 772. 2 L