FORE-ARM. 361 FORE-ARM, (Surgical anatomy), (Anti- brachium; Fr. Avant-brus; Germ, der Vorder- arm )■ This term is applied to that portion of the upper extremity which is situated be- tween the elbow and wrist-joint. In the well-formed male all the muscles of this region, but especially the supinators, from the fascia which covers them being extremely thin, when thrown into action stand out in strong relief, giving an appearance of great power concentrated within a small space. In the female, on the contrary, the fore-arm, from the great preponderance of adipose tissue, presents a swelling outline and rounded form, not the less beautiful, perhaps, from indicating deficiency of muscular energy, and conveying the idea of softness and dependence. The usual and least constrained position of the fore-arm is with the hand between prona- tion and supination, that is, with the palm of the hand inwards and the dorsum outwards; but for the purpose of anatomical description the palm of the hand is supposed to face for- wards and the dorsum backwards, the fore-arm being extended. In this position the fore- arm obviously differs from the arm in being wider from side to side than from before back- wards. Superiorly it presents in front a very slightly convex surface, but inferiorly there is formed by the flexor tendon a distinct central projection, which is bounded by the flexor carpi radialis on the radial side, and by the flexor carpi ulnaris on the ulnar. The posterior surface of the fore-arm is more irregularly convex than the anterior; the greatest convexity is nearer the ulnar than the radial edge, and is formed by the olecranon above and the shaft of the ulna below, which is covered only by the skin superiorly. A con- siderable depression may be observed, bounded on the inner side by the olecranon, and on the outer by the supinators; in this depression the outer condyle may be felt. To the inner side of the olecranon there is a corresponding but much smaller depression, in which the inner condyle is situated. For about three inches above the wrist-joint the fore-arm pos- teriorly is slightly concave in the centre in consequence of the marked projection of the ulna and radius on either side. In the motions of pronation and supination the shape of the fore-arm is considerably changed; but as no practical advantage can attend a detailed ac- count of the changes undergone, we shall not dwell upon them here. The parts composing the fore-arm are as fol- low : the radius and ulna, the muscles of the hand and fingers, the radial and ulnar arteries with their branches, the venae satellites of these arteries and the subcutaneous veins, the radial, ulnar, median, and cutaneous nerves, the ab- sorbent vessels, a quantity of cellular and adipose tissue, various aponeuroses, and the common integuments. The configuration, relative position, and connection of the bones of the fore-arm have been described in the article Extremity. They move together in the flexion and exten- sion of the fore-arm on the os humeri at the elbow-joint, under the influence of the biceps flexor cubiti and brachialis anticus, and the triceps extensor cubiti and anconeus. In the motions of supination and pronation the radius is always rolled upon the ulna, the latter remaining perfectly fixed, though this fact has been disputed in consequence of the thick sacciform ligament of the wrist and the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris being felt to roll under the finger when placed on the inferior extremity of the ulna during the motion of rotation and supination, and thus communicating the sensation of a motion in the ulna itself. The skin of the fore-arm differs considerably on the dorsal and anterior aspects. On the former it is coarse and comparatively rough, containing numerous small hairs ; on the latter it is smooth and more delicate, and the adipose tissue being more abundant on the anterior, the whole surface is more even, while on the posterior the extensor muscles of the hand and fingers, being slightly covered, project considerably. Neither of the regions, however, contain so much fat as most other parts of the body. The superficial veins which are subject to the greatest variety, are usually more distinct and numerous on the dorsal aspect, particularly at the lower part. The subcutaneous nerves, which are very numerous, are derived from the following sources : 1st, the internal cutaneous nerve, which is one of the divisions of the axillary plexus; 2dly, the cutaneous branch of the radial; 3dly, the musculo-cutaneous. The internal cutaneous nerve divides into two branches in the upper arm, in which region it accompanies the basilic vein. These two branches penetrate the fascia separately above the elbow-joint, and the one, the an- terior branch, descends on the front of the fore-arm, the other, the posterior, on the back of it. The anterior branch usually passes behind the basilic vein, sending a small twig or two anterior to it. Its course is continued to the wrist-joint, supplying the skin on the anterior and inner side throughout; the pos- terior division accompanies the basilic vein, and may be always traced to the back part of the wrist. The small branches of this nerve, which cross in front of the basilic or median basilic vein, are occasionally wounded in the opera- tion of venesection ; an accident which gene- rally excites considerable inflammation, with severe constitutional irritation, symptoms which are sometimes erroneously attributed to the action of a foul lancet. The skin on the anterior surface of the outer half of the fore-arm is supplied with nerves by the external cutaneous nerve, a division of the axillary plexus: it is a deep-seated mus- cular nerve in the upper arm and penetrates the fascia, becoming subcutaneous anterior and a little below the elbow-joint. In this situation it is posterior to the median cephalic