180 EYE. On the outside and anterior part of the choroid, where the margin of that membrane corresponds to the place of union between the sclerotic and cornea, a peculiar and distinct formation exists apparently for the purpose of securing a firm union between the two mem- branes. It is commonly called the ciliary liga- ment, also orbiculus ciliaris, circulus ciliaris, by Lieutaud plexus ciliaris, by Zinn armulus cellulosus, and by Sommerring gangliform ring. It is a gray circle of soft cellular membrane about two lines broad, applied like a band round the margin of the aperture into which the iris is fitted. It adheres closely to the choroid, and almost equally closely to the scle- rotic, especially in the groove where the cornea joins that membrane. It contains few red vessels, and is not stained by the black pig- ment; consequently it is of a whitish colour. The ciliary nerves penetrate it and subdivide in its structure. Hence it has been considered by Sommerring as a ganglion, aftd had been previously described by Lieutaud as a nervous plexus. The ciliary nerves, however, merely pass through, and may easily be traced on to the iris. It is evidently a mere band of cellular membrane serving to bind the choroid and sclerotic together at this point, and is obviously a provision essentially necessary for the perfec- tion of the anatomical mechanism of the eye, as without it the aqueous humour must, from pressure on the eyeball, be forced back be- tween the two membranes. In man it is broader in proportion than in the larger quadrupeds, and in birds it is particularly large and dense, adhering more closely to the circle of osseous plates than to the choroid, and consequently presents a very remarkable appearance when the latter membrane is pulled off with the ciliary processes and iris, an appearance to which the attention of anatomists was first drawn by Mr. Crampton. From its position and appearance the ciliary ligament has often been suspected to be a muscular organ, destined by its contraction to alter the form of the cornea, and thus adapt the eye to distance. There is not, however, sufficient evidence to sustain such an opinion. The plate introduced to represent the ciliary nerves, as well as that which represents the iris, exhibit this part of the organization of the eyeball in connexion with the choroid. On the inside of the choroid, surrounding the aperture into which the iris is fitted, and corresponding in position within to the ciliary ligament without, exists another peculiar pro- vision destined to establish a connexion between this part and the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour, as the ciliary ligament esta- blishes a similar connexion between the sclerotic and choroid. This is the corpus ciliare or ciliary processes, called sometimes incorrectly ciliary ligament, and by Sommerring corona ciliaris. It is composed of a number of dis- tinct folds or productions of the choroid, having their anterior extremities extended to the back of the iris, while the posterior gradually dimi- nish until lost in the membrane from which they originate. Each fold or ciliary process is a production or continuation of the choroid, and cannot be separated from it unless clipped off by the scissors. They appear to be com- posed altogether of a remarkable interlacement of arteries and veins derived from those of the choroid, and exhibit no appearance whatsoever of muscular organization, although considered by Porterfield and others as endowed with that function. These are sixty or seventy in num- ber, fifty-seven being enumerated by Sommer- ring, and seventy by Zinn. They are about two lines in length, but are not equally so, every alternate one being shorter than the next to it. The free internal margin of each ciliary process is buried in the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour at its anterior part, round the circumference of the crystalline lens, and a corresponding production of the hyaloid mem- brane projects into the space between these processes so as to establish a most perfect bond of union between the two structures. The ciliary processes appear to be attached to the circumference of the lens, and are often de- scribed as having such connexion. This, how- ever, is not the case. The anterior extremities do not touch the circumference of the lens; they project into the posterior chamber of the aqueous humour up to the back of the iris, and consequently constitute the circumferen- tial boundary of that cavity. When the eye becomes flaccid from evaporation after death, the ciliary processes fall down to the margin of the lens and appear to adhere ; but if the cornea and iris be removed from the eye of a subject recently dead, a circle of hyaloid membrane may distinctly be seen occupying the space between the ciliary processes and lens, through which the observer can see to the bottom of the eye. This space is represented and pointed out in Sommemug's plates. The annexed figure from Zinn's work represents the corpus ciliare or circle of ciliary processes on a large scale. Fig. 105. The choroid, in common with several other parts of the eye and its appendages, is stained by a black colouring matter secreted in and upon different textures. In man it is of a dark- brown colour, but in other animals is generally