672 ANIMAL HEAT. 18° (64°, 5 F.), the temperature of the hedge- hog was lower by 2° c, that of the marmot by 5°, 25 c, and that of the dormouse by 5°, 5 c. than it had been at the previous date. This is a considerable depression, if it be remembered that the decline in the atmospheric temperature was by no means considerable; that the air was in fact still at a point which made it be felt as warm to the generality of persons. The same individual animals examined on the 7th of November, the atmospheric temperature being 7°, presented the following state. The mar- mot had lost 9°, 25 c, the dormouse 15°, 5 c, and the hedge-hog 21°, 25 c. of their respec- tive temperatures during the month of August, so that their absolute temperatures were now as follows: that of the marmot 27° (81° F.), that of the dormouse 21° (70° F.), and that of the hedge-hog 13°, 75 c. (57° F.). Here, there- fore, we have several warm-blooded animals which in autumn approach very closely to the cold-blooded tribes with regard to their calorific power. If they be next observed during the period of sleep, the relationship will be observed if possible in a more striking degree. If, during the state of watching, they surfer such a loss of temperature as has been specified with the gradual decline of the temperature of the year, they will certainly suffer still more remarkable changes during the state of sleep, in conforinity with the principles already fully developed. The sleep of these animals will also become longer and deeper in proportion as the nervous system loses its power, under the influence of the external cold, a loss which will be mani- fested by a farther retardation in the motions of circulation and respiration. But what is the increasing weakness of the nervous system during sleep but a more or less marked state of torpor ? The same degree of cold con- tinuing, or the degree of cold becoming gra- dually greater, the disproportion as regards the animal will increase also, and will necessarily attain a term at which the torpor during sleep will become lethargic. If the external temperature goes on declining, and attains a point at which it becomes dangerous to the life of the creature, the cold, within certain limits, ought to have the power of withdrawing the animal from its state of lethargy. The excite- ment which appertains to the waking period, by accelerating the motions of circulation and of" respiration, will then cause the temperature of the body to rise. But if the external tem- perature does not become more favourable, or if the animal finds no means of abstracting itself from its influence, it has not sufficient resource within itself and must perish. We have seen above that the changes in the seasons produced great modifications in the constitution of wann-blooded animals in gene- ral. But it were difficult to imagine any greater or more striking than those presented to us by the species which we have just named, which belong to the family of hybernating animals; changes which arise from their passing the winter months in a state of lethargy. When these animals are recalled from this state to- wards the end of autumn, and during the course of the winter, they may seem to resume the characters which distinguish the vitality of warm-blooded animals in general, but they are in a very different state at this epoch from what they are in summer. Their constitution has un !ergone important changes, which it is necessary to examine and appreciate exactly. These changes are inversely as those which the most perfectly constituted warm-blooded ani- mals experience. These, under the influence of the increasing cold of autumn and winter, acquire new vigour, and their faculty of pro- ducing heat increases in consequence. Those, on the contrary, naturally much less energetic even at the most favourable period of the year, require to be excited and supported by the high temperature of the summer or warmer months, to permit them to exhibit all their activity and strength. It is in the warm season of the year that these animals have the greatest degree of energy—energy which has a certain duration even after the external conditions which have developed it have ceased to operate ; for they have been as it were tempered by the continuity of favourable circumstances, espe- cially of the high atmospheric temperature. This is the reason why they are so slightly affected by the diurnal variations of the warm season of the year; and even when this begins to wane, and they are no longer stimulated by the temperature proper to summer, they find sufficient energy in the store accumulated, as it were, during the fine season to enable them to resist for a time and to a certain extent the unfavourable influences with which they begin to be surrounded. These continuing, however, and even increasing, they gradually yield to their influence, and sink lethargic, till revived by the return of spring with its milder tempe- rature. Their languor even augments not only with a progressively lower degree of atmospheric temperature, but with the persistence of a degree which in itself is not by any means excessive. These hybernating animals, whilst they pre- sent the structure of the warm-blooded tribes in general, still approach in a very remarkable degree to the cold-blooded tribes in their defective energy, or their indifferent powers of reaction. This is to be regarded as the prin- cipal source of the phenomena they exhibit in the current of the year, phenomena which are unknown among the more perfectly con- stituted warm-blooded animals, but which are absolutely of the same nature as those presented by the cold-blooded Vertebrata in the same circumstances, and which only differ in degree. This analogy or resemblance in the phenomena appears to arise from analogy not of structure but of constitution. Very opposite organiza- tions may have analogous constitutions; cold- blooded animals for example present the greatest diversities of structure, and all are affected and bear themselves in the same man- ner under similar circumstances in very many respects. They have thus a common constitu-