ABNORMAL CONDITION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 77 the sigmoid cavity of the ulna was the result of a natural effort to compensate for the loss of strength the joint suffered from the dislocation of the radius. Still, supposing it possible that the surface of the capitulum of the humerus could be so completely removed, under such circumstances, as we find it was in the cases of which Jigs. 44 and 45 are delineations, we may ask, is it likely, from accident or disease, that both elbow-joints should be similarly affected, as they were in Dupuytren's cases. Another circumstance in our mind cannot be accounted for, unless by supposing these cases congenital, namely, the alteration and great elongation of the neck of the radius. " L'ex- tremite superieure de chaque radius avait abandonne sa situation naturelle, se trouvait place derriere l'extremite inferieure de l'hu- merus, et depassait cette extremite d'un pouce au moins. Cette disposition etait ab- solument la meme de chaque cote du corps." We know of no process which could take place in the head and neck of the radius after it had been dislocated, which could satis- factorily account for the elongation of the radius, which has been remarked in these cases. While looking on them as congenital, we need not be surprised at it; for we have known the neck of the femur elongated and atrophied, in the case of congenital luxation of the femur, and have very frequently seen the lower extremity of the ulna exceed in length by half an inch the corresponding extremity of the radius ; and these were cases in which no doubt could be entertained that they were congenital. Disease.—-Acute and chronic inflammation produces effects on the membranes, cartilages, and bones entering into the composition of the elbow-joint, which will be found nearly analo- gous to those which the same morbid action pro- duces on similar structures in other articulations. A few local peculiarities, if we may so call them, when the elbow is the seat of the acute or chronic disease, should alone occupy our atten- tion here. Synovitis of the elbow-joint, uncombined with any affection of the other structures, is rare ; it may, however, present itself either in the acute or subacute form. Increased effusion of fluid into the joint, accompanied with the usual local and sympathetic phenomena of in- flammation, is the result. Two well-marked oblong swellings at each side of the olecranon process in these cases first present themselves, which after a time, if the disease proceeds, join and form one swelling, which extends up the back of the arm, occupying the cellular in- terval existing between the back part of the humerus and the front of the triceps muscle, opposite to the outer condyle of the humerus and head of the radius; the supinators arising here are, in severe cases, occasionally elevated and thrown out from the bones by a soft tumour, which, upon examination, conveys to the fingers a distinct feeling of a fluid contained beneath. The nature of the accumulated fluid will, when the joint is cut into, be found to vary. When the effusion has followed an acute attack of in- flammation of the membrane, it will be gene- rally found to be purulent, though sometimes we have observed the quality of the synovia but little altered, except that it was more or less turbid. When the contents of the synovial sac have been washed away, the membrane will be seen to be highly vascular, and the ves- sels of the subsynovial tissue congested with blood, and its cells infiltrated with se- rum; while, if fine injection, coloured with vermillion, is thrown into the vascular system of these parts, the unusual redness the mem- branes assume can only be compared in height of colouring to the membrane of the eye in acute conjunctivitis. With this intense red- ness of the surrounding membranes is strongly contrasted the appearance of the cartilages of the joint; these, but little altered from their natural colour, are seldom in this articulation found covered with vascular membranes, and even when the surrounding structures are mi- nutely injected, the fluid cannot be made to penetrate the synovial investment of the carti- lages. Cartilage.—When acute inflammation has existed in the synovial membrane or bones of the elbow-joint, the articular cartilages covering these will very frequently be found to have assumed, in patches, a dull yellow colour; in the latter discoloured points the cartilage is soft- ened, and a blunt probe slightly pressed will sink into its structure, and its subjacent surface will be found to be detached. A new vascular membrane having been interposed between the cartilage and the cancellous structure of the bone, this elevation and partial detachment of the articular cartilages from the heads of the bone, and interposition of a new organized mem- brane, are probably the usual preludes to those other changes we notice. Thus sometimes a leaf or flap of the articular cartilage, adherent only by an edge, hangs into the cavity of the joint, and again fragments of this structure completely detached are found loose in the in- terior of the articulation. In these instances there is reason to conjecture that the diseased action which detached the cartilage began on the surface of this structure contiguous to the bone. We have occasionally, however, evidence of ulcerative absorption having commenced on the free surface of the cartilage. The peculiar worm-eaten appearance which the surfaces of cartilages next the cavity of the joint occa- sionally present, and which, wherever it exists, is considered by many pathologists to be the result of a process of ulceration which had be- gun on the free surfaces of the articular carti- lages, has been occasionally though rarely seen in the elbow-joint; much more frequently in examining elbow-joints which have been the seat of disease, the articular surfaces of the bones have been found extensively divested of their cartilages ; a few patches of them alone here and there remain ; and these, though apparently thinner than natural, are of their ordinary tex- ture, and are firmly adherent to bone. Such extensive removal of cartilage, which has exposed the cancelli of the heads of the bones, has generally been the result of some