FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. 306 presented them to the animal, and it always undid the paper and possessed itself of the food; but, he adds, " I do not regard this ex- periment as satisfactory, because in other cir- cumstances it appeared to me to want smell to discover food which I put near him without his knowledge" (a son insu). However, the latter circumstance is overlooked by Magendie, and his conclusion is, " une fois le nerf trifa- cial coupe, toute trace de sensibilite disparait, aucun corps odorant a distance ou en contact, les corrosifs memes n'affectent plus en aucune facon la pituitaire."* Doubtless this conclu- sion is qualified by another immediately suc- ceeding, " that does not prove that the seat of smell is in the branches of the fifth pair; but it proves at least that the olfactory nerve has an indispensable need of the branches of the fifth pair to be able to enter into action ; that it is devoid of general sensibility, and that it can have only a special sensibility relative to odorous bodies."\ The latter must be ad- mitted to come, if not quite, at least very near to the general opinion, but it is altogether at variance with the former, and one is rather at fault for the author's precise meaning. Refe- rence to later writings, however, leaves no doubt upon that point. In the conjoint work of Desmoulins and Magendie (1825) upon the nervous system of the vertebrata, besides other similar passages, will be found the following: " La cinquicme paire, par ses branches nasales dans les mammiferes, et par ses branches pro- pres a la cavite pre-oculaire des trigonocephales et des serpents a sonnettes, est done l'organe de l'odorat."J Notwithstanding the weight of Magendie's authority, a careful review of the matter will not permit us to assent to this con- clusion, and compels us to avow not only that it is not proved, but that the premises justify a contrary one. In the first place it is not war- rantable to call the effluvia of ammonia or acetic acid odours: they are no more odours than the fumes of muriatic or nitric acid ; and, though aware of the objection, he still calls them odeurs fortes, and bases his inference upon their operation. But he says the objec- tion does not apply to oil of lavender or the animal oil of Dippel: this, however, is but an assumption at variance with fact; in the human subject these agents may act feebly upon the sensibility of the membrane of the nostrils, and may not appear to possess irritating properties; but this will not prove that they act similarly upon animals, whose organ of smell is more sensitive than that of man, and accordingly Dr. Eschricht,§ who combats the opinion of Magendie, has found that, on application to the nostrils of those animals upon which the experiments of Magendie have been performed, they produce all the same effects which am- monia or nitric acid does. In the second place his experiment of presenting food to a dog, whose olfactories had been destroyed, enclosed * Journal de Physiologie, t. iv. p. 306. t Ibid. t T. ii. p. 712. § Journal de Physiologie, t. »i. p. 350. in paper, and in which the animal undid the paper, upon his own showing not only does not justify his inference, but, so far as it reaches, proves the contrary. To establish his position the animal must have discovered the food by smell, without knowing that it was in the paper; but it is manifest, from Magendie's own relation, that when the animal undid the paper, it knew, or was led by some circum- stance to expect the food to be in it; but that when it was not already aware or in expecta- tion that the food was near it, it did not dis- cover it. To the writer it seems that the na- tural inference from the experiment, as related, is that the animal's proper sense of smell de- pended upon the olfactory nerves, inasmuch as it did not display fair evidence of its presence after their destruction, and that the sensibility displayed by the membrane of the nostrils after the destruction of these nerves, and dependent upon the fifth, has reference only to those im- pressions which are objects of tactile or general sensation, but not of the special sense. At the same time, however, that we express our dissent from Magendie with regard to the nervous connexion of the proper sense of smell, it must be admitted that his researches posi- tively indicate a distinction between the media of perception in the case of different agents operating on the olfactory organ, which it has been too much the habit to regard as pro- ducing their impressions all through the olfac- tory nerves: they have gone a considerable way in demonstrating the separation of those media; a result which is made complete by the conti- nuance of the simple sense after the loss of the influence of the fifth nerve consequent upon disease: further, they indicate that sensations derived through the organ of smell are less simple than they are usually accounted ; that they may be, and probably are for the most part, compound, resulting from the combina- tion of impressions made upon the two senses thus shewn to be enjoyed by the organ. Magendie's view has been adopted, and an endeavour made to corroborate and establish it by Desmoulins in ' Reflexions' upon a case communicated by Beclard, and published in the fifth volume of the Journal of Physiology. The case is that of a patient, in whom the olfactory nerves and their bulbs were de- stroyed by the growth of a tubercular disease from the anterior lobes of the brain ; " yet he took snuff with pleasure, appeared to distin- guish its different qualities, and was affected disagreeably by the smell of the suppuration of an abscess with which one of his neighbours was afflicted." From this case, from that of Series, related elsewhere, and the experiments of Magendie viewed in connexion, Desmoulins has adopted the opinion that " the nerves and lobes called olfactory are alien to the sense of smell, or at all events co-operate so little in it, that the sense continues to be exerted without them ; that, on the contrary, this sense resides essentially in the branches of the fifth pair, which are distributed to the nostrils." Serres' case has been discussed elsewhere; that of Beclard appears at first unanswerable; but