498 GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. like accurate data in enabling us to judge of the functions of this nerve. Its deep situa- tion, its proximity to important parts, and the consequent difficulty of exposing it in the living animal, have until very lately deterred physio- logists from making it an object of experimental investigation. Some have supposed that it supplies the nervous filaments upon which the sense of taste at the root of the tongue de- pends, while the third branch of the fifth pair furnishes those of the anterior part of this organ. Mr. Mayo* states that " when this nerve is pinched in an ass recently killed, a distinct convulsive action ensues, apparently including and limited to the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and upper part of the pharynx." He concluded from this that the glosso-pharyngeal is in part, probably, a nerve of voluntary mo- tion ; and from its distribution upon the sur- face at the root of the tongue, that it is also partly a nerve of common sensation. Sir C. Bell believes that this is the respiratory nerve of the tongue and pharynx, associating the movements of those organs with the muscles of respiration in speech and in deglutition. And we find it stated by Mr. Shaw f that its power of combining the movements of the tongue and pharynx in deglutition " has been shown by several experiments, the results of which were very curious, and corroborative of the views deduced from comparative anatomy." Panizza} has undertaken an experimental in- vestigation into the functions of the nerve, and obtained very unexpected results. From these we are led to believe that when this nerve is pricked in a living animal, this is attended by no indications of suffering and no convulsive movements; that section of both nerves is followed by loss of taste, while the tactile sensibility of the tongue and the mus- cular movements of deglutition and mastication remain unimpaired; that section of the fifth pair is on the contrary followed by loss of common sensation without any apparent effect upon the taste. From these and other experi- ments upon the nerves supplying the tongue, he concludes that the glosso-pharyngeal is the nerve upon which the sense of taste depends, and is therefore the true gustatory nerve. Dr, M. Hall and the late Mr. Broughton§ had, from experiments performed previous to the publication of those of Panizza, arrived at the conclusion that this nerve is not a nerve of com<- mon sensation. These gentlemen likewise reported at the meeting of the British As-< sociation for 1836 an experiment, the results of which were in exact accordance with those obtained by Panizza upon this nerve, but no details of these experiments have yet been pub- * Anatomical and Physiological Commentaries, n. ii. p. 11. 1822. + London Medical and Physical Journal,vol. xlix. 1823. X Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Jan. 1836, and Medical Gazette, Sept. 1835. § Fourth Report of British Scientific Association, and Mr. Broughton, in vol. xlv. of Edinburgh Me- dical and Surgical Journal. lished. Mr. Mayo* has stated several objec- tions to these conclusions of Panizza. He rests his grounds of dissent principally upon the fact that the distribution of this nerve is con- fined to the posterior part of the tongue; while the sense of taste, he maintains, is also present in the anterior part of that organ, and consequently it cannot, in that part at least, depend upon the glosso-pharyngeal. The persistence of the sense of taste after section of the fifth pair may, Mr. Mayo supposes, depend upon the palatine twigs of the second branch of the fifth pair distri- buted upon the palate and isthmus of the fauces. Mr. Mayo attempted to decide the matter by experiment, but he did not carry this suffi- ciently far to obtain any satisfactory results. Dr. Alcockf has also lately examined into the functions of this nerve experimentally, and has arrived at conclusions at direct variance with those of Panizza; for according to Dr. Alcock, when this nerve is exposed and irritated in the living animal, it excites pain and spasmodic contractions of the pharynx and muscles of the throat. When divided on both sides, the ani- mal's taste, " to say the least of it, did not ap- pear to be much affected." He believes that the sense of taste enjoys " two media of percep- tion, and that these are the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and the lingual and palatine branches of the fifth." He also states that the muscular movements of deglutition are very much im- paired after section of the nerve on both sides. He concludes, then, that the glosso-pharyngeal are sentient nerves, and also influence muscular motion. He, however, is doubtful in what manner these muscular movements are excited by irritation of this nerve, for though " dis- posed to regard the result in question as the effect of a sentient impression excited through the nerve, and referred to the interior of the pharynx," from the fact that this movement ex- tends to muscles not supplied by this nerve, and forms an associated movement, he admits " that the circumstance may be as well ex- plained by an exalted degree of muscular excitement, or by a higher one than that ne- cessary to produce the simple starting." Pro- fessor Miilier J believes that an examination of the position of the ganglion jugulare will de- cide that the glosso-pharyngeal is a mixed nerve, and he maintains that the distribution of this nerve, partly for sensation (mucous mem- brane of the root of tongue), partly for the movements of muscles (stylo-pharyngeus and pharynx), exactly resembles that of the two roots of the nervus trigeminus. Unable amidst these discordant statements to come to any sa- tisfactory conclusions upon the proper func- tions of this nerve, I entered into a lengthened experimental and anatomical investigation for this purpose. The experiments were twenty- seven in number, and were performed upon as * Medical Gazette, Oct. 1835, and 4th edit, of Outlines of Physiology, p. 314. f Dublin Journal of Chemical and Medical Sci- ence, Nov. 1836. X Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol, etc. n. ii. 1837, p. 276.