892 INSECTA. curious organs, the necessity of which it is difficult to understand. The function of the antenna has been a Subject of much dispute amongst naturalists, some contending that it is simply that of feel- ing, others that of smelling, others again that of hearing, and lastly others that of a sixth sense unknown to vertebrata. Our own ob- servations lead us most decidedly to the con- clusion that the primary function of the an- tennae is that of hearing or feeling the vibra- tions of the atmosphere, while an additional function possessed by the antenna? of many insects is that of common feeling or touch. We have endeavoured to support this opinion by facts and experiments detailed in a paper on the use of the antenna?, which was read before the Entomological Society of London in the beginning of 1838, but which has not yet been printed. First as regards the employ- ment of the antenna? as olfactory organs, there seems in their anatomical structure the most decided evidence that they cannot be designed for such purpose. In every instance in verte- brata, the faculty of smelling is situated in a delicate mucous or soft surface, and in no animal that we are aware of has it ever been found to reside in a dry horny covering, or in a tense membranous structure, while, on the contrary, that of hearing is constantly depen- dent upon an elastic membrane, or other part sufficiently delicate to be affected by the vibra- tions of the atmosphere. If therefore the sense of smelling be dependent, as it appears to be, upon a moist or lubricated surface, it cannot reside in the antenna?, since the exterior sur- face of these organs is in every instance formed of a dry hardened covering. On the other banc, if the perception of sound be depen- dent upon the elasticity of a part, and its capa- bility of being affected by the vibrations of the air, the structure of the antennae is in no in- stance unadapted for the performance of this function. It seems improbable that the office of the antenna? is simply that of touching or feeling other objects, by direct contact, as sup- posed by some naturalists, from the circum- stance that in certain insects these organs are much too short to be so employed, being in many species, as in the Libellulida and Ciea- diid<e (Jig. 353), shorter than the head itself. But that they are so employed by some insects is indisputable, particularly by the Blattida, Gryllidce, and most of the Hymenoptera. The Gryllida?, when sipping water from the channelled surface of a moistened leaf, con- stantly feel about with the antenna?; and the honey-bee, when constructing its cells, ascer- tains their proper direction and size by means of the extremities of these organs, while the same insect, when evidently affected by sounds, keeps them motionless in one direction, as if in the act of listening. Another circumstance which favours the opinion that they are audi- tory organs is their greater development in the males of some species than in the females, as in the bipectinated antenna? of many moths, and the lamellated ones of the Melolonthidts. The structure well known to exist in the Crustacea,* the bony tubercle covered exter- nally by a tense membrane, and communi- cating internally with a membranous vesicle, situated at the base of the antennae, sufficiently proves that in those animals the antenna? are or- gans of hearing, and is not an inadequate reason for regarding them as ministering to the same function in insects. But the fact of the ex- istence of a small circular space discovered by Treviranus, at the base of each antenna in the Blattida, (jig. 373, t) which are noted for extreme acuteness of hearing, and which space, as in Crustacea, is covered by a membrane, is an additional reason for considering the func- tion of the antennae in insects analogous to that of the corresponding organs in those animals. Thus then almost every circumstance connected with the antennae leads us to the conclusion that these are the proper organs of hearing, while their occasional employment as factors or cerebral feelers is not incompatible with the exercise of that function, hearing be- ing in reality only a more exquisite sense of feeling. Fig. 372. e Interior of the upper and under surface of the head of Hydrous, d, clypeus; e, labrum; g, maxilla; h, its pal- pus ; i, labium ; k, labial palpus ; p, sutura epi- cranii; q, cotyloid cavity ; r, torulus; s, v, lamina squamosa?; t, lamina? posteriores ; u, tentorium; to, lamina? orbitales ; x, os transversum; y, arti- culating cavity for the mandible ; x, os hypopha- ryngeum. Internal parts of the head.—On the interior surface of the superior portion of the cranium of Hydrous piceus (fig. 372), the insect we have selected for our purpose, is a thick horny ridge Cp), extending along the middle line from the * See vol. i. p. 768, art. Crustacea.