HERMAPHRODITISM. 698 ran up from the cloaca to opposite the origin of the iliac vessels (r), and during this part of its course was bent into those short transverse zig- zag folds which characterise the structure of this part in the common cock. (See article Aves, vol. i. p. 354.) When it reached the middle third of the kidney (dd), it lost this particular form, became membranous (e), and after pro- ceeding upwards for about an inch, in the com- mon course of the canal, at last disappeared. The convoluted or contorted portion ran over a space of about two and a half inches, and if unrolled would have extended three or four times that length. Its canal was about the usual size of the same part in the perfect cock, and perhaps at some parts even more dilated. Its cavity was filled with a whitish seminal-looking albuminous fluid, which at first prevented a mercurial injection from readily passing through it. There was not any appa- rent vestige of a testicle. The fowl that was the subject of this malformation possessed in an imperfect degree the plumage, comb, spurs, and general appearance of the cock, and when young was considered to be a male until the time it commenced to lay eggs, which it did very constantly, except during the moulting season, up to the time of its death. Its eggs were remarked to be very large. They had re- peatedly been tried to be hatched, but always without success. The bird itself was never known to incubate. It was peculiar in its habits in so far that in the barn-yard it did not associate with the other poultry, and at night roosted sepa- rately from them. It crowed regularly, espe- cially in the morning, and often attempted copu- lation with the hens. In the second case, the ovaries and oviduct on the left side of the body were, as in the former example, natural in themselves; but in the mesometry of the oviduct, a tube of the size of the male vas deferens was found. This tube, like the normal vas deferens, was thrown into the distinctive angular folds. It ran for about an inch and a half through the upper portion of the mesometry, was blind at either extremity, and admitted of being injected with quicksilver. On the right side, there was also a male vas deferens, marked with the characte- ristic angular folds. Thjp contorted portion of this canal only stretched in this instarrce'^tq, about an inch above the cloaca; but the folds were even stronger than in the first case, and the tube itself was rather more dilated. Above or anterior to this convoluted part, the tube be- came straight and membraneous, and ran up in this form for about two inches in its usual track over the abdominal surface of the kidney ; but there was not at its upper extremity any trace of a testicle. This bird presented during life, in a very slight degree only, the appearance of a cock, its comb and spurs being even less developed than in the previous case. It shewed the same solitary habits in the poultry-yard. It layed eggs regularly. On three different occa- sions I had a number of them submitted to incubation, but in none of them was a chick produced. In the Quadruped, Schlump* has mentioned an instance of lateral hermaphroditic malfor- mation. In a young calf he found on the left side, under the kidney, a small testicle having attached to it a vas deferens, which was con- nected with the peritonaeum towards the abdo- minal ring of the same side, and there became lost in the cellular texture of the part. An ovary and Fallopian tube, with an uterus consisting of a single horn only, were connected to the right side of the loins by a ligament. The neck of the uterus lost itself in the cellular substance beneath the rectum, and there was no vagina. The external organs were male, but imperfectly formed. The udder occupied the place of the scrotum. In the human subject several different in- stances of sexual malformation have now been met with referable to the head of lateral herma- phroditism. In these cases, along with a tes- ticle on one side, and an ovary on the other, there has generally co-existed a more or less per- fectly formed uterus. The external parts have differed in their sexual characters, in some in- stances being female, in others male, and in others again of a neutral or indeterminate type. In man, and in the higher quadrupeds, we have not unfrequently exhibited to us a slight tendency to this unsymmetrical type of sexual structure constituting true lateral hermaphro- ditism in the testicle of one side only des- cending, whilst the other, in consequence of imperfect development, remains within the inguinal ring. In the single unsymmetrical ovary of most female birds and some nshes,f we see a still nearer approach to the state; and it is worthy of remark, that among birds at least, the single ovary is always placed upon the left side. In lateral hermaphrodites in the hu- man subject, the left side also appears to be that on which we most frequently meet with the female type of the sexual organs. We shall divide the following cases according to the par- ticular sides which were respectively male and female in them. 1. Ovary on left side,and testes on the right.— a. M. Sue met, in 1746, with an instance of late- ral hermaphroditism in the human subject, in a young person of thirteen or fourteen years of age, whose case was the subject of a Thesis sustained^ by M. Morand.J Of the internal * Archiv. fuer die Thierheilkunde, Bd. ii. Hft. ii. s. 204. H t In the early embryo ofbirds, the ovaries are ori- ginally double, as pointed out by Emmert, (see Reil's Archiv for 1811;) and as was previously known to Wolff and Hochstetler, (Anat. Phil. torn. i. p. 349.) t De Hermaphroditis, Paris, 1749. This, ac- cording to Amaud, (p. 323,) is the same case of lateral hermaphroditism with that described by Lecat. If so, the latter author, (probably from drawing his description from memory, and not, as Morand seems to have done, from the parts placed before him,) has stated that along with the testicle and vas deferens on the one side, there existed a vesicula seminalis, and that both sides were provided with round ligaments, the one on the male side forming probably one of the two tubes described by Morand as arising from the testicle.