903 INSECTA. its lateral regions. They are always largest, as in Neuroptera, in those species which are most constantly abroad in the brightest light, and are expanded over nearly the whole of the epicranial region, as in Tubanus, Chrysotoxum, and Doros. But although the corneae of the compound eyes are so largely developed, the ocelli also are almost invariably present in this order. They are generally three in number, placed on the most vertical part of the epi- cranium, immediately behind the proper cornea. This is their situation in Musca, Helophilus, and Straliomys,a.nd also in the gnat, Culex annulcttus, but we have not observed them in a neigh- bouring genus, Pedicia. Professor Muller* believes that the ocelli are designed chiefly for observing near objects, and the fact of their existing, as just stated, in many insects in which the cornea of the proper eyes are ex- ceedingly large, seems to favour this opinion. Their presence, as in Hymenoptera, is most re- markable in the males, as in the male Empidte, in which, although the proper corneae cover the whole surface of the head, yet there are also three large ocelli situated in the trian- gular space immediately behind the corneae, and even elevated upon a pedicle. In Tabanus there appears at first to be only a single ocellus, situated in the median line between the corneae at the anterior part of the head ; but on close inspection it is found to be divided into two by the longitudinal suture which passes through it, so that the two ocelli from their close approxi- mation appear but as one. In the organization of the mouth the same parts exist in Diptera as in the preceding orders, but modified in form to adapt them to a different mode of use. Thus we have seen that in Hymenoptera and Lepidoptera it was simply necessary that the parts should be elongated, to enable the insects to obtain the liquid food already prepared for them; but in Diptera not merely was it necessary that this should be the case, but also that their form should be materially altered, to adapt them to a mode of employment different from that of analogous parts in other insects. Thus in Tubunida, the labrum and mandibles are used like lancets, to pierce the integuments of other animals, before these parasitic blood-suckers can obtain the living fluid they are in quest of; while in other species, as in Eristalis floreus, (fig- 379,) which subsists both on the pollen and honey of flowers, the mandibles and maxilla? are employed to scrape off the pollen from the anthers, before it is conveyed along the tube formed by the united parts of the mouth to the pharynx. In other Diptera, of which the food is entirely fluid and easily ac- cessible, as in the common house-flies, Muscida, all the parts of the mouth are soft and fleshy, and simply adapted to form a sucking tube, which in a state of rest is closely folded up in a deep fissure, on the under surface of the head, formed by the two sides of the clypeus. * Elements of Physiology, by J. Muller, M.D., (translated by W. Baly, M.D., part v. p. 1116, Fig. 379. Mouth or proboscis of Eristalis floreus. d, front beneath the clypeus ; e, labrum ; f, man- dible ; 9, maxilla and palpus ; i, labium ; i*, labium dilated ; inner surface of paraglossa ; the rows of hairs on the inner surface ; I, ligula ; m, cardo and submentum. On the other hand, in the (Estrida, which, as we have seen in the Phryganidte, Bombycidce, and others that take no food in their perfect state, all the parts of the mouth have entirely disappeared. It is in Tabanida that the oral or- gans of Diptera are most perfectly developed, and approach nearest to those of Hymenoptera, and are easily distinguished; while in the soft fleshy proboscis of Muscida their identification is a matter of considerable difficulty. Ac- cording to Savigny* the proboscis of Diptera is formed solely by the labium, or under-lip, divided into its primary parts as in other in- sects ; while Desvoidsyf on the contrary be- lieves that it is not formed by the labium, but, as in Lepidoptera, solely by the maxillae. Now we have seen, that although in Lepidoptera the maxillae alone form the tubular mouth or proboscis, yet that in Hymenoptera the labium is the part chiefly employed in gathering the honey, which is conveyed to the cavity of the mouth and pharynx only by the maxillae as- sisting to form a tube of which the labium constitutes the inferior portion. Analogy there- fore would lead us to expect a somewhat si- milar conformation of the mouth in Diptera, and that since these insects have either to pierce the coverings of other animals before they can obtain their food, or to gather their nourish- ment by employing the proboscis as a pre- hensile organ, the maxillae may fairly be sup- posed to enter into its formation, and accord- ingly we find, on a careful examination, that such is actually the case, and that the proboscis is formed of the maxillae and labium united. We have been led to this conclusion by a care- * Mem. sur les Anim. sans vertebres. t Essai sur les Myodaires, par le Docteur J. B. Robineau Desvoidsy, 4to, 1830, torn. x. Me- moires de l'lnstitut de France.