599 HEART. origin.) It then proceeds into the concavity of the arch of the aorta, and as it is about to pass through the fibrous coat of the pericardium, it divides into its two branches, the right and left. The left branch passes in front of the descending portion of the arch of the aorta to reach the left lung; the right branch passes behind the ascending portion of the arch to reach the right lung. In the foetus the pulmo- nary artery divides into three branches, the two we have just mentioned, and a third, the ductus arteriosus, which unites the pulmonary artery to the descending portion of the arch,— in other words, after the aorta has given off the large branches to the head and superior extre- mities. The descending cava, immediately before it perforates the fibrous coat of the peri- cardium, crosses the right branches close upon the bifurcation of the trachea; within the peri- cardium it lies on the right side of the ascend- ing portion of the arch of the aorta. The inferior cava is seen perforating the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm, and almost imme- diately afterwards it enters the posterior and inferior angle of the right auricle. The pul- monary veins are placed inferior to the two branches of the pulmonary artery. The two right pulmonary veins pass behind the right auricle to reach the left, which they enter near the septum auriculorum. Peculiarities of the fatal heart.—(For an account of the developement of the heart and large bloodvessels see Ovum.) The heart of the foetus before the fourth month is placed vertically, but towards that period the apex begins to turn towards the left side. The auricular part of the heart is considerably larger in proportion than the ventricular. The relative size of the heart to the body at birth differs considerably from that of the foetus at an earlier period of its developement. According to Meckel the relative size of the heart to the body about the second or third month of uterine life is 1 to 50; at birth and for a few years afterwards as 1 to 120. The greater size of the heart of the foetus seems to depend principally upon the greater thickness of the walls of its cavities. The great disparity between the thick- ness of the two sides so very apparent shortly after birth does not exist in the earlier periods of uterine life, though also generally sufficiently well-marked in the foetus at the full time. This is explained by the circumstance that the two sides of the heart at this period have nearly equal obstacles to overcome in propelling the blood.* In the earlier stages of its deve- lopement the infundibuliform portion of the right ventricle is less prominent than at a later period. The left ventricle is at first a little larger than the right; at birth and for a short while after they are equal. The two auricles communicate with eacli other through the fora- * In two foetuses, however, which I lately exa- mined, and where I had positive evidence that they had not yet reached the sixth month of utero- gestation, the difference between the thickness of the two ventricles of the heart was distinctly marked. men ovale.* This foramen is at its maximum size about the sixth month. Valve of the foramen ovale.—This valve, which, however, can scarcely be called a valve, as it is a provision for effecting the obliteration of the foramen ovale at the time the child assumes its independent existence, first makes its appearance at the lower part of the foramen about the third month, or, according to Senac and Portal, about the second month. It is formed by the inner membranes of the two sides of the heart, containing some muscular fibres between them, particularly at its lower part. It is of a semilunar form; its convex edge adheres to a greater or less portion of the margins of the valve as its growth is more or less advanced; its concave margin, which is free and loose, looks upwards and forwards. This valve may be said to belong almost exclu- sively to the left auricle, as it is attached to that margin of the foramen.f Though this valve is of sufficient size at birth to shut the foramen, yet its concave or upper margin is easily depressed so as to leave a considerable interval between it and the upper margin of the foramen. We will find, from the man- ner in which the valve is attached to the left margin of the foramen, that it is much more easily depressed by a current passing from the right auricle into the left than in the opposite direction. In fact any force of this kind ap- plied in the opposite direction would rather tend to keep the valve applied to the upper edge of the opening; a circumstance which occurs after birth when the blood flows along the pulmonary veins into the left auricle, and which must materially assist in producing com- plete obliteration of the foramen. The manner in which the blood passes between the auricles through the foramen ovale in the foetus was the subject of a violent controversy in France at the termination of the seventeenth and the commencement of the eighteenth centuries. It was first commenced between Meri on the one side, who had proposed a new theory of the foetal circulation by which the blood was made to pass from the left auricle into the right, and by Duverry and Fauvery on the opposite side, who maintained the opinion of Ilarvey, and which is now universally adopted, that it passes from right to left. Many celebrated anatomists and mathematicians attached themselves to the opposite parties, and at last the controversy extended itself to the neighbouring kingdoms. J Eustachian valve.—This valve, the appear- ance and position of which have been already * This opening is frequently termed trou de Botal by the French writers though described by Galen. t This explains how the depression (fossa ovalis), marking in the adult the position of the valve, should be better seen from the right than the left auricle. | Those who may be anxious to acquaint them- selves more fully with the nature of this contro- versy and to examine the arguments adduced on both sides may consult the M ('moires de l'Academie for that period, and Senac's Traite de la Structure du Cceur, torn. i. p. 369, ajrd the Supplement in torn. ii.