442 GENERATION. ance of puberty is gradual in both sexes, but, upon the whole, more slow in the male than in the female. The age at which it takes place varies in the same and in different countries according to the mode of life, physical and moral education, and other circumstances. It takes place at an earlier age in woman than in man: in the former most frequently in this country at from the age of thirteen to sixteen years, in the latter from fifteen to eighteen years; but instances are not unfrequent of girls menstruating and of boys passing into manhood one or two or even more years sooner or later than the above-mentioned periods, as from ten or eleven to twenty or twenty-two years.* These variations are to be considered as dependent on constitution in the greater num- ber of instances; but in respect to their ocbasional causes, it may be stated that all those circumstances which produce a determi- nation of blood to the sexual organs or pelvic viscera, which relax the body generally, or turn the attention of the young to the sexual function, tend to bring on sooner than natural the local changes of puberty. Warm rooms, a sedentary mode of life, particular kinds of reading, and some bad habits are all hurtful in this respect. According to the observations of many tra- vellers, puberty arrives sooner in warm than in temperate climates; and some have hence too hastily concluded that the warmth of the tropical country has been the cause of the more precocious appearance of menstruation in wo- men and puberty in men, an opinion the error of which is shev\n by the fact that instances of very early puberty are not unfrequently met •with in high northern latitudes.f The occur- * According to Mr. Roberton's observations pre- viously quoted, the following are the ages at which 450 women began to menstruate : In their 11th year 10 „ 12th 19 „ 13th 53 „ 14th 85 „ 15th >> 97 „ 16th 76 „ 17th >* 57 „ 18th 26 ,, 19th 23 „ 20th 4 This table shews that the age of puberty of females in this country extends over a considerable number of years, ind is more equally distributed than is commonly alleged. t The opinion that menstruation happens at an earlier age in warmer climates is very generally enter- tained, as may be seen by a reference to the works of Haller, Boerhaave, Deninan, Burns, Dewees, and others. Mr. Roberton has successfully shewn its inaccuracy by an appeal to the facts stated by modern travellers, as llearne, Franklin, Richard- son, and Back with regard to the Northern Cana- dian Indians; by Lyon and Parry with respect to the Esquimaux ; by Clarke in reference to the Laplanders; and by Tonke in relation to the Northern Russians ; all of whi<h shew that puberty is attained in the arctic regions at least as early as in more temperate climates. On the other hand, from the evidence of Crawford and Raffles relative to the inhabitants of the Indian Archipelago, of Messrs. Ellis and Browne (missionaries) in regard rences of marriages, therefore, or sexual union at the early age of six or seven years in the South Sea Islands and elsewhere is to be looked upon rather as a proof of the barbarous and debased state of civilization of these people, than taken as an evidence of their being fitted by nature for the functions of propagation at the period of life now mentioned. There do sometimes occur, however, in all nations unfortunate examples of precocity in the development of the sexual organs and activity of their functions. Thus in male or female children of four and even of only three years old all the changes of the sexual organs, and some of those of the body generally, which belong to puberty of a more advancedand natural age, take place. The attention of such children is soon called by their local feelings to the condition of the sexual organs, and vicious habits are induced, which; from the misery they carry along with them, it becomes the duty of the medical man to counteract by all the resources of his art. Period of life during which the generative Junction is exercised.—The length of time du- ring which the male and female of the human species retain the power of propagation is sub- ject to the same variations which attend the arrival of the age of puberty. The most healthy women are in general capable of bearing chil- dren between the ages of fifteen and forty-five, or for a period of thirty years. Men retain the powers of their sex for a longer time, as from the age of seventeen to sixty or seventy, that is, for forty-five or fifty years. There are, however, on record instances of both sexes, but more especially the male sex, having retained their respective powers for a longer period than that just stated ;—of women menstruating a second time (after the cessation of this function at the usual period) at the age of sixty or seventy,*" and in one or two instances bearing a child at that advanced age ;—of propagation in the male, sex to the age of seventy, eighty, and ninety, and in the celebrated case of old Parr even to that of one hundred and thirty years.f Among the lower animals the variations in this respect are so numerous as to preclude the pos- sibility of our mentioning even the more im- to those of Polynesia; of Dr. Winterbottom on the native Africans round Sierra Leone; of the laws of the Koran in regard to the Arabs ; and of the observations by Russel on the Egyptians, Mr. Roberton endeavours to prove that though early marriages are common in warm and equinoctial countries, yet the period of puberty and of the capability of procreating is nearly the same as in temperate and noithern latitudes. Mr. Roberton is therefore induced to form the conclusion that the variations from the standard or more common period of puberty in different nations are not greater than the individual differences to be observed in our own country, and that the opinion above referred to ought to be looked upon as a vulgar error. * These instances are very rate indeed. Mr. Roberton states that of 3000 women delivered in the Manchester Lying-in Hospital, only one was above fifty years of age. t See Halter's Elementa for an enumeration of such examples.