928 INSECTA. Fig 394. A A, inferior surface of left wing of Acrida viri- dissima. B, upper surface of the right, and.C, under sur- face of left wing of Acrida brachelytra, shewing the tympanum a, and bow c, across which the file b acts. b, the file magnified. Until recently it has been supposed that these were the only parts in the male Acrida con- cerned in the production of sound, the me- chanism of which has been explained by Bur- meister* as consisting in a quick attrition of the wings against each other during a forcible expiration of air from the thoracic tracheae and spiracles, which are situated beneath, and are covered by the edges of the wings; that the air in rushing out of these spiracles is driven against the tympani, which are thus occasioned to vibrate and produce the sound. But this ingenious explanation is not entirely correct; the means employed do not appear sufficient to explain the phenomenon, besides which a part of the structure that is chiefly instrumental in producing the sound has been overlooked. In addition to the tympanum, and parts by which it is inclosed, there is also another part which has not until recently been described. It is a strong, transversely elongated horny ridge, situated immediately behind the tympanum, near the base of the wing, and is most distinct on the upper surface of the wing of the left side. This part was first shown to us by the late Mr. William Lord, in the wing of Acrida viridissima, in February 1838, but it had pre- * Manual (translat.), p. 470. viously been described by M. Goureau, in an elaborate paper on the Stridulation of Insects* When examined minutely, this ridge, which is of the colour and appearance of tortoise-shell, is found to be striated transversely, so as to resemble a rasp or file. Goureau has called it the bow; a similar ridge or file exists on the under surface of the right wing, but less strongly notched, and is called by Goureau the false bow. When the wings are rubbed briskly together, these rasps or bows produce a loud grating against some projecting or ele- vated nervures on the borders of the wings, by means of which the drum is made to vibrate like any other tensely stretched membrane when agitated, the intensity of the sounds pro- duced depending entirely upon the rapidity and force employed by the insect during the attrition of the parts concerned, and being entirely independent of any forcible expiration of air from the thoracic spiracles, which is thus seen to be unnecessary for the production of the sound. That this is really the case is proved by the fact that in Acrida brachelytra (b, c), the wings are so exceedingly short and narrow that they do not cover, nor are they even near any part of the spiracles, so that the air in passing out of these orifices cannot possibly be driven against the tympanum. On the other hand the tympanum in this species (fig. 394, B, C) is considerably larger than in others of the same genus, and not only has its margins more elevated, but has also a strong bar extended across near its base (c), is itself more tense and vibratory, and has a short, strong bar (d), connected with the ring by which it is inclosed, and also, at a right angle, with the origin of the great marginal nervure of the wing. It is remarkable that both in Acrida viridissima and Acrida brachelytra, the tympanum in one wing differs from that of the other in being less re- gular in its form, much more opaque, and tra- versed by several tracheae, a circumstance which leads us still further to infer that the sounds produced result from the vibrations of one only of these organs, besides which the proper tympani are not in corresponding wings in these two insects. In the former, in which the base of the left wing is covered by that of the right, the proper tympanum is in the left wing, while in the latter insect, in which the right wing is covered by the left, the tympa- num is in the left wing, which is remarkable in being entirely deficient of the file or bow, but which is largely developed on the under sur- face of the left wing. The analogue of the file in the right wing is evidently a strong por- tion of the rim of the tympanum nearest to the base of the wing. It is remarkable also that in this species the whole surface of the right wing, in which the tympanum is situated, is more transparent and free from nervures than the corresponding part of the left wing, so that the whole surface of the wing may perhaps be rendered sonorous. It is remarkable also that * Annates de la Societe Entomologique deFrance, 1837, p. 31. Entomological Magazine, January, 1838, p, 89 et seq.