267 FIBULAR ARTERY. though the subjacent bone has been partly absorbed, that the fungoid disease entirely originated from the periosteum* Malignant fungus occasionally arises from the periosteum. I have seen one case of this disease connected with the tibia, in which amputation was performed, but with an un- favourable result, the patient sinking rapidly from mortification. In medullary sarcoma that membrane is often involved. Osteo - sarcoma, according to Ilowship, Craigie, and Meckel, occasionally has its ori- gin in the periosteum. (R. D. Grainger.) FIBULAR ARTERY, (art'eria peronaa; Fr. artire peroniere; Germ, die Wudenbein- urterie).—This artery is commonly described as a branch of the posterior tibial, or it may be said to be one of the branches resulting from the bifurcation of a short trunk which has its origin immediately from the popliteal, and which has been described under the name of the tibio-peroneal artery, the other branch of the bifurcation being what is ordinarily considered as the continued posterior tibial trunk. The origin of the fibular artery is situated about an inch below the inferior margin of the popliteus muscle, thence the artery extends downwards and with a very gradual inclination outwards, and terminates in the region of the external ankle, just above the os calcis and behind the fibula. It is a vessel of smaller size than the posterior tibial, and about equal to the anterior tibial, and it is interesting to ob- serve that the varieties in its calibre are in the inverse ratio of the calibre of the anterior and posterior tibial, but more especially of the former. To expose the fibular artery in dissection the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles must be raised, and the deep fascia of the leg dissected away. The artery is then seen resting at first for a very short distance upon the tibialis posti- cus muscle, and from it getting upon the pos- terior surface of the fibula near its tibial edge, where the vessel is imbedded in the flexor pol- licis proprius and encased between that muscle and the bone. Inferiorly it passes between the flexor pollicis proprius and tibialis posticus, and is applied to the posterior surface of the interosseous ligament. The fibular artery is sometimes altogether absent, and then its place is supplied by rami- fications of the posterior tibial. Sometimes the fibular artery takes its rise higher up than the point we have indicated ; but more frequently it has a lower origin, in which case it presents a calibre smaller than that which may be con- sidered as usual; the vessel, indeed, is found to be smaller the lower down its origin is. It is in these cases that the anterior tibial especially and the posterior tibial occur of a larger size than The result of dissection induces me to suppose that in many old and intractable ulceis, the fun- goid excrescences seen on the surface arise either from the fascia of the leg or from the periosteum, according as they are placed on the outer or inner part of the limb. natural, as it were to compensate for the de- ficiency of the fibular. Branches.-—The first branches the fibular artery gives off are small muscular ones on either side to the soleus, tibialis posticus, flexor pollicis proprius, to which in its whole course it gives a liberal supply; also to the fibula and the peroncei muscles. From its inner side, according to Cruveilhier, it gives an anasto- motic branch to the posterior tibial, which passes transversely or obliquely from one artery to the other. This branch sometimes attains a considerable size, and in such cases after its communication with the posterior tibial, that artery also becomes considerably enlarged. The fibular artery divides into its two termi- nal arteries in the inferior third of the leg; these are the anterior and posterior peroneal arteries. Anterior peroneal artery, (urteria peronaa anterior and perjorans peronaa.) This branch gains the anterior surface of the leg by piercing the interosseous ligament, where it is covered by the peronaeus tertius muscle. The situation at which this perforation takes place is stated by Harrison to be about two inches above the external ankle; it then inclines downwards upon the outer side of the tibia, anastomoses by a transverse branch with the anti-tibial, com- municates with the external malleolar artery from the anterior tibial, giving off numerous branches both before and after the anastomosis, which pass down to the tarsus and communi- cate with the tarsal arteries. This artery is generally smaller than the posterior, some- times so small that the ordinary injection fails to penetrate it. If there be any anomaly in the size of the anterior tibial artery, this branch is generally large in proportion as that artery is small, and in such a case it might exceed the posterior peroneal in calibre. The arteries of the dorsum of the foot spring from the anterior peroneal when the anterior tibial exhibits this deficiency. Posterior peroneal artery, {A. peronaa pos- terior ; calcanienne externe, Cruveilhier). This branch continues the course of the fibular artery behind the external malleolus to the outer side of the os calcis; it runs parallel to the outer edge of the tendo Achillis, being immediately covered by the continuation of the fascia of the leg. A transverse branch from the inner side of this artery establishes its communication with the posterior tibial, and inferiorly it distributes its terminal branches to the muscles and other parts on the outside of the os calcis to anasto- mose with the external tarsal and plantar arteries; some small vessels proceed round the tendo Achillis to effect a further communication with the posterior tibial. This may be considered as the terminal branch of the fibular artery; it is absent only when the fibular artery passes entirely forwards, or vi hen it directly opens into the posterior tibial without having any further communica- tion with the arteries of the ankle. The fibular artery is evidently a valuable anastomotic trunk to both the tibial arteries, a deficiency in either of which it is prepared to