789 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE IIIP-JOINT. the right side, extending from the hip to the knee, and resembling the pains of rheumatism. He attributed these pains to his having caught cold about a month before his admission. He laboured also under a complaint of his bowels, of which he died on the 4th of December. On dissection, no preternatural appearances were discovered, except in the right hip. The cap- sular ligament and synovial membrane were in a natural state, the cartilages covering the head of the femur and lining the bottom of the ace- tabulum were destroyed by ulceration in about one-half of their extent, and wherever the carti- lage was destroyed an ulcerated surface of bone was exposed ; the round ligament was readily torn in consequence of ulceration having ex- tended to it at the part where it was inserted into the acetabulum. The bones possessed their natural texture and hardness; there was no pus in the joint. It was observed that the ulcerated surface of the acetabulum correspond- ed to that of the femur, these surfaces being exactly in contact in the position in which the patient had remained since his admission into the hospital. Mr. Aston Key, from the cases he had an opportunity of examining of ulceration of the cartilage of the hip-joint in the early stage of the disease, is of opinion that the ulceration of the cartilage is preceded by inflammation of the ligamentum teres. He adduces the follow- ing interesting case. A young female, who, for six months prior to her death, had laboured under the usual symptoms of chronic inflammation of the hip- joint, and when the symptoms had nearly yielded to the treatment employed, was attacked with another disease, of which she died. The ligamentum teres was found much thicker and more pulpy than usual from inter- stitial effusion ; the vessels on its investing syno- vial membrane were distended and large, with- out being filled with injection. At the root of the ligament where it is attached to the head of the femur, a spot of ulceration in the cartilage was seen commencing, as it does in other joints, by an extension of the vessels in the form of a membrane from the root of the vascular liga- ment. The same process had also begun on the acetabulum, where the ligamentum teres was attached.'* Bone.—The scrofulous affection of the hip- joint or morbus coxae of Ford is, according to modern writers, a specimen of strumous osteitis. The disease, as far as the hip-joint itself is con- cerned, commences deep in the cancellous structure of the bones, and in general is re- markably slow in its progress. While the disease goes on in the cancellous structure of the bones, before it has extended further, and while there is no swelling, the patient experiences some degree of pain, which, however, is never so severe as to occasion seri- ous distress; it is often so slight, and increases so gradually as scarcely to be noticed ; after a time the external parts sympathize with those within, and serum and coagulated lymph being * SeeMedico-Clururgica] Transactions, vol. xviii. effused into the cellular membrane, the joint appears swollen : should the patient be a child, it not unfrequently happens that this swelling first attracts the attention of the nurse or pa- rents. The swelling is puffy and elastic, with blue veins meandring over its surface, but though usually more in degree than in those cases in which ulceration of the cartilage occurs as a primary disease, it is not greater in ap- pearance, because the muscles of the limb are not equally wasted from want of exercise ; the pain increases, but is not severe until matter has formed, and the parts over the abscess have become distended and inflamed, but then it is immediately relieved upon the abscess burst- ing. The skin, under these circumstances, assumes a dark red or purple colour, the ab- scess is slow in its progress, and when it bursts or is opened it discharges a thin pus, with por- tions of a curdy substance floating in it; after- wards the discharge lessens in quantity, be- comes thicker in consistence, and at last nearly resembles the cheesy matter which is found in scrofulous absorbent glands. In most instances several abscesses take place in succession, but at various intervals, some of which heal, while others remain open, assuming the form of fistu- lous sinuses, at the bottom of which carious bone may be distinguished by means of a probe. The principal difference which is to be observed between the symptoms of this affec- tion and that in which the cartilage is primarily the seat of inflammation, is in the degree or amount of pain which the palient endures, and which is much greater in the latter than in those cases where the disease exists in the can- cellous structure of the bones. A girl laboured under an affection of the hip-joint, in which the nates were flattened, and an abscess had broken on the outside of the thigh, but it was observed she had suffered comparatively little pain. Under these circumstances she died, and when, says Sir B. Brodie, I was about to examine the body, 1 observed to those who were present, that there was little doubt but that the origin of the disease would be found to have been, not in the cartilages, nor in the bony surfaces to which they are connected, but in the cancellous structure of the bone. The appearances verified this remark : the cartilages were ulcerated and the bones destroyed to some extent; the latter were soft, so that they might be cut with a scalpel, and on dividing the articulating extremity of the femur longitu- dinally, a considerable collection of thick pus was found in the neck of that bone below the head, which either had not escaped at all, or had escaped in very small quantity by oozing through the cancelli which were interposed be- tween it and the cavity of the joint. The hip- joint wears externally the peculiar aspect of a white swelling, and internally the anatomical structure will be found similar. In this disease of the joints the cancellous structure of the bones is the part primarily affected, in conse- quence of which ulceration takes place in the cartilages covering their articulating surfaces. The cartilages being ulcerated, the subsequent progress of the disease is in. many respects the