ORGANS OF GENERATION. 415 vary much in their form, being sometimes elon- gated, tortuous, convoluted, or ventricose, or at others short and straight. The seminal vesicles are generally two in number, even in those Lepi- doptera in which the testis is single. In some insects, as Tenebrio molitor and Hydrophilus piceus, there are four; in others, as Dytiscus marginalis, six; and in Locusta and Blatta, they are very numerous. In some insects these tubes are found to be of surprising length; thus in Oryctes nasicornis they are twenty times as long as the body,and in Cetonia aurata even sixty times the length of the animal. The vasa deferentia and vesiculse seminales ulti- mately terminate in one common tube, the ca- nalis excretorius, which communicates with the root of the penis; this canal is composed of muscular walls largely supplied with tracheal vessels, serving as a receptacle for the genital secretions, and no doubt is the agent by which, during coition, their expulsion is effected. The penis of insects is a hollow tube, capable of being protruded from the anal extremity of the body : its texture is generally membranous, but sometimes horny, and its shape exhibits considerable variety ; it is usually cylindrical or nearly so, becoming more slender towards its termination. In Cliermis pyrus, however, the end is enlarged; in the common wasp it is spoon-shaped; in Cruhro bilobed, and in some Vespa curved and bifid at its extremity. In Musca vivipura its apex is covered with spines; in Tyrop/iaga putris and some other Muscidaa it is spiral. The penis of Coleoptera is furnished with a bivalve sheath, destined to open the vulva of the female prior to its inser- tion. In some Diptera (Muscidae) a remark- able inversion of the usual arrangement of the organs of copulation is observable ; in these the females are provided with a retractile penis, whilst in the males the generative apparatus terminates by a simple aperture. During coi- tion in this case, it is the penis of the female which is introduced into the genital opening of the male, and thus becomes the recipient of the fecundating fluid. The Dragon-flies (Libel- lula) are remarkable from the position which the male organ is found to occupy, being placed under the anterior part of the elongated abdo- men, but in the female the sexual aperture occupies the usual situation near the anus. This arrangement accounts for the singular position which these insects assume during copulation. In addition to the organs above enumerated as composing the male system in insects, we may notice appendages which are found in some tribes which materially assist in effecting the intercourse of the sexes : these are named prekensores, and serve to seize and secure the female during coitus. These holders assume a great variety of shapes, and likewise are diffe- rently disposed according to circumstances. They generally surround the aperture through which the penis is extruded, but in Libellula the mode in which the sexes embrace each other renders additional security indispensable; in this tribe, therefore, besides the anal preken- sores, an additional pair of forceps is placed under the second abdominal segment. The prehensores are generally two in number; but in many Lepidoptera, Conopis and Libellula, three are placed around the anus. In Culex there are two pairs. In Locusta morbillostz there are five, and in Formica six holders. In some tribes, as Megachilis, Agrionidas, and Locusta, they are retracted within the abdomen when not employed. In insects the ovigerous or female generative apparatus consists likewise essentially of tubes or cceca, the arrangement of which is tolerably uniform. They may be divided into the ovaria, the oviducts, the spermotheca, or receptacle for the seminal fluid of the male, the accessory glands, and the ovipositor, which latter is, in many insects, an instrument adapted to intro- duce the eggs at the period of their extrusion into situations suited to their developement. The ovaria are double throughout the whole class, each being composed of a variable num- ber of membranous tubes arising from the oviduct. Rifferschweils considers the ovaries to be formed upon two primary types, being eitherflagelliform, that is, composed of conical tubes of equal length, which are inserted at the same place at the extremity of the oviduct, as in the Lepidoptera, the Bee, &c.; or racemose, consisting of short conical tubes, so proceeding from the primary branches as to render the ovary racemose or pinnated, such as they are in many Neuroptera, Coleoptera, and Diptera. The number of tubes composing each ovary varies in different genera and species; some- times there are but two, at others four, five, six, eight, or twelve, and in the more prolific insects this number is much increased; thus, in Acrida viridisvima there are thirty, and in the hive-bee not fewer than a hundred and fifty cceca in each ovarian packet. The number of eggs will of course depend upon the number and divisions of these ovarian tubes, and thus while some insects only lay two, four, or six eggs, others will produce sixty or seventy, and some gregarious insects a much greater num- ber : thus the hive-bee will probably give birth to many thousand young, and in the Termite ant (Hermes bellicosus) the fecundity of the female is absolutely incalculable. This extra- ordinary fertility renders indispensable certain restrictions which we find imposed upon this numerous class, tending materially to limit their excessive multiplication. Thus, through- out the whole race one generation only is pro- duced from the same insect, the business of reproduction being usually the termination of its existence; and in the most prolific tribes, namely, those which live in society, as the Bee and the Termite, one female only in each com- munity is found to be fertile, the sexual organs of all the rest remaining in a rudimentary or undeveloped state, although capable of de- velopement, should the destruction of the queen render such a provision for the preserva- tion of the race indispensably necessary. (See Inseota.) The oviductus or excretory canal common to the ovarian tubes of the corresponding side of the body, sometimes opens into the cloaca,