MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. 3C9 of the triceps extensor cubiti: the fibres of each are perfectly continuous, and there is no line of demarcation between them. An artificial boundary may be made by drawing a line horizontally inwards when the fore-arm is ex- tended on the upper arm, between the outer condyle of the os humeri and the olecranon process of the ulna. With this view of the limit of the upper edge of the anconeus, it may be described as a triangular muscle, the base above and the apex below. This muscle arises ten- dinous from the back part of the outer condyle, its external and anterior edge continuing ten- dinous almost to its insertion; its superior fleshy fibres pass transversely inwards and backwards, to be inserted into the fascia of the fore-arm and also into the olecranon; the middle and inferior fibres pass backwards to the ulna with various degrees of obliquity, and occupy by their insertion about one-third of the bone from its superior extremity. This muscle is a simple extensor of the fore-arm. 2. Extensor carpi ulnaris, (ulnaris exter- nus, Scemm.; cubito sus-metucarpien, Chauss.) arises from the back part of the outer con- dyle between the anconeus and the extensor communis digitorum, with which latter muscle it is so intimately connected that, more strictly speaking, it ought to be said to arise in a common tendon. Connected by a narrow origin to the humerus it gradually expands, and about the middle of the fore-arm, a tendon being formed in the centre, it exhibits in its further course a well-marked specimen of the double penniform muscle. The tendon of this muscle, in its passage towards the wrist-joint, runs in an especial groove appropriated for its reception in the back part of the ulna; it ter- minates by being inserted in the metacarpal bone supporting the little finger. The extensor carpi ulnaris is more or less connected with the fascia throughout the whole of the upper arm. This muscle extends the first row of carpal bones on the second and the whole hand on the fore-arm; it is likewise an adductor of the hand. 3. Extensor communis digitorum (epicondylo sus-phalangettien commun, Chauss. Dumas) arises from the back part of the outer condyle in common with the extensor carpi ulnaris on its outer side, and the extensor carpi radialis brevior on its inner side. The connexion of this muscle to the os humeri is extremely narrow in comparison with the width of the muscle in the centre of the fore-arm. In its ample attachment to the fascia it resembles the flexor ulnaris, and, like it, is a penniform muscle. We not unfrequenly find a portion of this muscle so entirely distinct from the rest that anatomists have occasionally described it as a separate muscle, under the name of the extensor proprius minimi digiti; for being inserted into the little finger, it possesses the power of extending that portion of the hand. It passes behind the posterior annular ligament of the wrist-joint, splits into four tendons, which, expanding on the back part of the phalanges of the four fingers, convey the power VOL. II. of the muscle to each phalanx in an equal degree. The tendons of this muscle in their passage behind the annular ligament of the wrist-joint are clothed by a synovial membrane (reflected like all other synovial membranes) so as to form a perfect purse or bursa. Both these muscles are intimately connected upon their under surface at the upper part of the arm, with the aponeurosis covering fhe supi- nator radii brevis. This muscle is an extensor of the fingers and the hand on the fore-arm. 4. Extensor carpi radialis brevior, (radialis externus brevior, Soemm. Epicondylo sus- mctacurpien, Chauss. Dumas), with a small portion of the extensor carpi radialis longior, occupies the radial division of the poste- rior superficial antibrachial region. This muscle arises from the outer condyle by a flattened narrow origin, in common with the extensor communis digitorum, being overlapped on its outer side by the extensor carpi radialis longior. This muscle, like most we have described in the fore-arm, swells out towards the centre, where, gradually becoming tendi- nous, it again diminishes in size. It passes the same groove in the radius as the extensor carpi radialis longior, and terminates by an insertion into the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. The under surface of this muscle is tendinous at the upper part of the arm, which permits it to play without friction upon the smooth and tendinous face of the supinator radii brevis with which it is in contact. This muscle acts as an extensor of the hand on the fore-arm and an abductor. b. Deep muscles of the posterior antibrachial region.—The muscles in this region com- mencing above, are the supinator radii brevis, the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, the, exten- sor primi internodii pollicis, the extensor secundi internodii, and the indicator. 1. Supinator radii brevis, (epicondylo-rcidial, Chauss.) arises tendinous from that portion of the outer and back part of the ulna, unoccupied by the insertion of the anconeus; it arises also from the back part of the outer condyle, covered at its origin from the outer condyle by the extensor communis digitorum and by the exten- sor carpi radialis brevior. Its posterior and external surface is tendinous, its internal fleshy, and it embraces so much of the upper extremity of the radius, as to form an imperfect tube. Anteriorly we find it partly overlapping the tubercle of that bone, with the tendon of the biceps which is inserted into it. Between these and the under surface of the muscle is a large and distinct bursa mucosa; it covers rather more than the upper third of the radius by its insertion, extending as low down as the pro- nator radii teres. This muscle is the main agent in effecting the supination of the hand. 2. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, (ab- ductor longus pollicis manus, Scemm. cubito- radi sus-rnetacarpien, Dumas,) arises from the ulna, interosseous ligament, and the back part of the radius, opposite the insertion of the pronator radii teres, having to its outer side the supi- '1 2 B