HEART. 577 1. The vestibule is the essential part of the organ. It detects the presence and intensity of sound, and especially of those sounds con- veyed through the external ear and tympanum. 2. The cochlea, lying in immediate connec- tion with the bone, receives those sounds which are propagated through the bones of the head. According to Kerner it is the medium of the perception of the timbre or quality of sounds.* 3. Of the function of the semicircular canals we know nothing. That they aid in forming a judgment of the direction of sounds is conjec- tured by Autenrieth and Kerner, and more re- cently by Wheatstone. 4. The tympanum and its membrane render the internal ear independent of atmospheric vicissitudes, and the former affords a non-reci- procating cavity for the free vibration of the latter, as well as of the chain of ossicles. 5. The chain of ossicles acts as a conductor of vibrations from the membrana tympani to the fenestra ovalis, and under the influence of the muscles regulates the tension of the mem- brana tympani, as well a? the membrane of the fenestra rotunda, so as to protect the ear against the effects of sounds of great intensity. 6. The external ear and meatus are con- ductors of vibrations ; the former in some de- gree collects them as a hearing-trumpet would do, and probably assists in enabling us to judge of the direction of sounds.f (R. B. Todd.) HEART (in anatomy). G Lat. cor; Fr. caur; Germ. Herz ; Ital. cuore. The movement of nutritious juices through the texture or textures of which an organized body is composed, is a fundamental law in Physio- logy. In proportion as the vital actions become more complex and energetic, the more a rapid and certain circulation of these fluids, which is intimately connected with this condition, becomes indispensable, and for this purpose we have a pulsatory sac or sacs, called hearts, superadded to the circulatory apparatus. Ano- ther invariable concomitant of this energetic manifestation of the vital phenomena is the more perfect exposure of the nutritious fluids to the atmospheric air, and this, combined with * Muller, who seems to regard the cochlea as an apparatus for distinguishing the pitch of notes, accounts for its peculiar form thus: —He supposes it an organ in which the separate parts of the nerve may he exposed to excitation; for this purpose all the finest fibres of the nerve lie exposed to the in- fluence of the sound-conducting medium, and that it has assumed the spiral form in order that the nerves may be arranged in the most convenient manner and within the smallest space. SeehisFrag- ment on the sense of hearing appended to his work, Zur vergleichenden Physiologie des Gesichtssinnes. t Much remains to be done to determine the true means by which we judge of the direction of sound. The reader who may be interested on the subject will find some valuable observations and experi- ments in Autenrieth and Kerner's paper already quoted, Mr. Gough's paper in the Manchester Memoirs, vol. v., new series, and one by Venturi in Voigt's Magazin f. d. Neueste aus der Physik. Mr. Wheatstone's views are very briefly stated in Dr. Elliotson's Physiology. vol. ir. the dissimilar media in which different animals live and move, necessitates very important modifications in the number, position, and structure of these pulsatory sacs. These hearts were until lately supposed to be exclusively confined to the sanguiferous vessels, but Muller and Panizza have discovered distinct pulsating sacs placed upon the lymphatic vessels in several of the reptile tribe, and these may be considered lymphatic hearts. In the lowest organized plants, as the Fungi, Alga;, &c. and in the lower classes of animals, as the Polypi, Actiniae, and a great part of the intestinal worms, the nutritious fluids are trans- mitted through their substance without any distinct canals or tubes ; while in the higher classes of plants, and in the Medusa, &c. among animals, vessels are present, but these are unprovided with any pulsatory cavities. In the articulated animals generally, the vessels are still without any pulsatory cavities; but to make up for the deficiency, the dorsal vessel itself has a distinct movement of contraction and relaxation. Various pulsatory dilatations are placed upon the vascular system of the common worm (Lumbricus terrestris) ; one or two upon the vascular system of the Holo- thuria ; and one in the Talpa cristata, where the dorsal vessel is reflected upon itself at the posterior extremity of the body to become con- tinuous with an analogous ventral vessel; all of which may be considered as rudimentary hearts. As we rise in the scale of animals, we find that the heart consists of two distinct portions— of a stronger and more muscular cavity called a ventricle, and of a weaker and less muscular cavity called an auricle. The latter not only serves as a kind of reservoir to the former, but also, by the contraction of its muscular fibres, drives the blood into it. This heart is placed within a sac or pericardium, and possesses valves to prevent the regurgitation of the blood from the ventricle into the auricle, and from the aorta back again into the ventricle. This may be considered as a perfect single heart. This single heart in some of the Mollusca and in Fishes which have a double circulation, propels the blood not only through the lungs, but also through the body. In the Batrachian Reptiles, as in the Frog, though the circulation is single, the heart becomes more complicated ; for instead of a single auricle we have two, one of which receives the blood returning from the respiratory apparatus, the other receives the venous blood of the body. The pulmonic and systemic circulations are here separated as far as the auricles are concerned; but a single ventricle in which the venous and arterialized blood are intermixed, still continues to propel the sanguineous current both through the lungs and through the body. In the Ophidia or ser- pent tribe the heart possesses the same number of cavities as in the Batrachian Reptiles ; but we have a still nearer approach to the double circulation in the presence of a rudimentary septum ventriculorum. In some of the Sauria, as the Crocodile, the ventricle is divided by partitions into distinct chambers, which never- 2 Q