166 EXTREMITY. nally; secondly, with the external condyle of the femur; thirdly, with the malleolus exter- nus, because these relations are constantly va- luable guides, as well in the diagnosis as in the reduction, of the luxations of the femur and of the fractures of the neck or shaft of the bone." The external surface of the great trochanter is convex and rough, and the tendon of the gluteus maximus muscle covers it in the recent condition ; this surface is terminated below by a projecting line, into which is inserted the upper extremity of the vastus externus muscle. The internal surface is of much less extent: it is placed at right angles with the superior sur- face of the neck of the bone, and at its posterior part it is excavated so as to form a deep pit or depression, the digital cavity orjfpssd trochante- rica, into which are inserted the tendon of the pyriformis, the gemelli, and the obturatores internus and externus. The anterior edge is thick and irregular; the glutei medius and minimus are inserted into it, the former into its inferior, the latter into its superior part. Superiorly the trochanter forms a thin edge, more or less pointed, into the interior half of which the gluteus minimus is inserted, and into its posterior or pointed portion the gluteus medius; it may in general be observed, that the size of this pointed part of the superior edge of the great trochanter is proportionate to the developement of the gluteus medius mus- cle. The posterior edge is convex and thick, and gives attachment to the quadratus femoris muscle. At the inferior angle of the base of the cervix femoris, and on the internal and posterior part, we notice a short conical process, trochanter minor, (processus interior femoris,) attached to the bone by its base,1 its apex directed downwards, inwards, and backwards, smooth on its whole surface. This process affords insertion to the tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles. In the maleadult, theaxis of the head and neck of the femur passes downwards, outwards, and slightly backwards, and forms an obtuse angle with the shaft, an angle of about 135 degrees. In the female this angle is somewhat smaller, and approaches more nearly to a right angle, which contributes with the greater lateral dimensions of the pelvis, to increase the distance of the trochanters of opposite sides from each other, and to cause that projection of these processes which forms a peculiarity of the female form. In early age, when the neck of the femur is imperfectly developed, the angle between the neck and shaft is not defined ; in the earliest condition the connexion of the head and shaft very much resembles the permanent condition of the corresponding parts in the humerus; as the neck becomes developed, the angle is ren- dered apparent, at first, however, little removed from a right angle, but subsequently it in- creases up to the adult period ; after that time we often find that the neck of the bone dimi- nishes in its dimensions, and the angle is con- sequently altered, so as to approximate to a right angle. The following may be given as the mean measurements of the different parts of the neck of the femur. In the centre it measures about one inch, its posterior surface about fifteen lines, its inferior edge about twenty lines, and its superior about eleven lines; its vertical diameter, in its most contracted part, is about seventeen lines, and its antero-posteiior about ten. The shaft of the femur forms a slight curve from above downwards, convex anteriorly and concave posteriorly, the excavation thus formed behind being filled up by the powerful muscles on the back of the thigh. It likewise presents the appearance as if it had been twisted, like that which we have noticed in the humerus, the inferior extremity being twisted inwards, the superior in the contrary direction. Cru- veilhier remarks, that this curvature of torsion is in relation with the disposition of the femoral artery, which in its spiral course passes from the anterior to the posterior surface of the bone. In the greater part of its extent the shaft of the femur is prismatic; at the superior extre- mity it is expanded laterally and flattened ; at the inferior it is likewise very considerably ex- panded. The anterior surface of the shaft is smooth and rounded; at the upper part it is a little rough: this surface is covered completely by the triceps extensor muscle. The posterior surface is divided along the middle into two, which are inclined, the one forwards and in- wards, the other forwards and outwards ; the external surface is covered by the vastus exter- nus, the internal by the vastus internus. In the middle, separating these two surfaces, is a rough ridge, tinea aspera, which occupies two- fifths of the shaft of the bone about its middle, but is bifurcated above and below. Superiorly the bifurcation takes place about the termina- tion of the superior fifth ; two lines proceed, the external, rough and prominent, to the great trochanter; the internal, rather indistinct, to the lesser trochanter. The external line gives in- sertion to the vastus externus, the adductor magnus, and the gluteus maximus; the pecti- nffius and the vastus internus are inserted into the internal line. Inferiorly, the bifurcation takes place at a point corresponding to the commencement of the two inferior fifths ; each line proceeds down to the corresponding con- dyle, and a triangular space is thus enclosed, the base of which is formed by the posterior extremities of the condyles, and the apex is at the point of bifurcation of the linea aspera. This space, which presents a smooth surface, slightly concave in both the vertical and trans- verse directions, forms the floor of the popliteal region. The external line, from the inferior bifurcation, is more prominent than the inter- nal, and gives insertion to the vastus externus and to the short head of the biceps. The in- ternal is very faint superiorly where the femoral artery passes over it, and inferiorly the vastus internus and the adductor magnus are inserted into it. The nutritious foramen of the femur is found either upon, or on one side of, the linea aspera.