S3 EDENTATA. offers a very remarkable structure. The ungueal phalanges, like those of the Sloth, are restricted in their motion to simple flexion, in which position they are retained during repose by Strong ligaments. In the Myrmecophaga the terminal phalanges are deeply grooved in the margin ; in the latter they are bifid. The pha- langes of the fingers themselves are very une- qual in length and thickness. The middle finger is of extraordinary size, every articula- tion being very robust, and almost twice as thick as either of the others; the next on each side are nearly as long but much smaller, and the outer shorter still and very slender. The outer finger has no claw ; the four others are furnished with claws. The hand in Dasypus and Orycleropus is also of a very remarkable conformation, particularly in the gigantic spe- cies of Armadillo, Priodunta gigantea (Jig 37) Fig. 37. Hand of the Gigantic Armadillo. of Fr. Cuvier. Amongst the peculiarities of structure in this animal are the following. In addition to several remarkable anomalies in the carpal bones, the bone which results from the ossification of the flexor profundus muscle is very large, developed posteriorly into a large and irregularly formed head, articulated by large surfaces to the os semi- lunar and pisiforme, presenting concave sur- faces on the side of the fore-arm, and termi- nating towards the hand by an enlargement which is compressed and smaller than the head. The metacarpals are no less extraordinary. Those of the thumb and index, as well as their phalanges, are slender, of the usual construc- tion, but that of the middle finger is irregularly rectangular and broader than it is long; and the phalanx which it supports is of a corresponding form and size, being extraordinarily short and broad. The corresponding bones of the fourth finger are similarly formed, but somewhat smaller. The ungueal or terminal phalanx of the middle finger is enormously large and strong, curved outwards, and having at its base a large bony hood or case for the lodgement of the claw; the terminal phalanx of the fourth finger is similar, but of somewhat smaller di- mensions. The fifth or little finger is much smaller, but is furnished with a claw of some size. The conformation of the hand of this animal affords a most formidable weapon, or as a powerful fossorial instrument, in the three outer claws, whilst the two inner ones are only formed for scratching or other similarly slight actions. The posterior extremity of the Edentata proper offers perhaps less striking peculiarities of structure. The femur in general is of mo- derate length, but large and strong; and an elevated crest, arising from the great trochanter, extends nearly the whole length of the bone. In the Ant-eaters and the Megatherium, it is particularly broad and flattened, and the greater and lesser trochanters are not particularly pro- minent. In the genus Dasypus the great tro- chanter on the contrary is of great size, and from the middle of its outer margin arises a large process which is directed outwards. The tibia and fibula in the latter genus are extremely broad, arched, and anchylosed at both extremi- ties. In the Ant-eaters, on the other hand, these bones are of the ordinary form, and have no osseous union. In the Megatherium they are united by the superior third of their length, and closely in contact at the lower part; they are both short and extremely thick, particularly the tibia. The tarsus is composed in the two-toed Ant-eaters of at least eight distinct bones, the largest of which is a supernumerary ' bone, situated at the inner part of the 5335^s foot, upon the scaphoid; it extendsback- wards as far as the tuberosity of the os calcis, and thus forms a broad base Ik to the posterior part of the sole of the \ 11 foot. The Myrmecophaga jubata has \ 1 also a supernumerary bone, but of t/ smaller dimensions; but the Armadillos and Orycteropus have but the seven or- dinary bones of the tarsus. The metatarsal bones and the toes are probably invariably five throughout the Edentata proper; the toes of the posterior extremity offer few peculiarities of any consequence. Both the anterior and poste- rior feet of the Megatherium are peculiar in their structure. In the former, those fingers which are completely formed are the three middle ones, the little finger being rudimentary, and the thumb having no claw. The ungueal pha- langes of the three former are enormously deve- loped, principally as regards the bony enve- lope for the base of the claw; the size and thickness of which indicate that the claws themselves must have been of great size and immense strength, and have afforded powerful implements for tearing up the suiface of the ground in search of roots. On the hinder foot, there is a single toe of a similar con- struction, which is the third ; the fourth and fifth, although of considerable size, bore no claws. This enormous extinct animal is cer- tainly among the most extraordinary produc- tions of the ancient world. Of dimensions the most unwieldy, and with a skeleton as solid as that of the most enormous amongst the Pachy- dermata, we find a cranium, and especially teeth, which exhibit a very near relation to those of the Sloth, and members which are no less remarkably allied to the Ant-eaters and the Ar- madillos. However the difference in bulk may iippear at first sight to interfere with the idea of these affinities, and however difficult it may be at once to reconcile the relation between a small active animal like the Armadillo, or an inhabitant of trees like the Sloth, and this enormous and unwieldy tenant of the earth's earlier surface, the affinities are neither less true nor more probable than those which subsist between the light rabbit-like hyrax