GLAND. 484 adjoining figure (Jig. 214) conveys a very accurate representation of this structure as it exists in the biliary organs of the astacus Jluviatilis, the digital tubuli (c) being depicted as they appear when partly unravelled. In another of the Crustaceans, pagurus stria- tum (Jig. 215), the same kind of structure is Fig. 215. observed, constituting a very complex liver. In the squilla mantis that organ is so remark- ably intricate that Cuvier supposed it formed an exception when compared with the other genera of the Crustacea, which, as we have seen in the instances above, possess biliary organs composed of blind tubes, by being ta- bulated and solid like a conglomerate gland* It has, however, been ascertained that the lobules are excavated in their whole extent, and communicate by openings with the intes- tine, which runs through their spongy mass, so that the secreting surface is wonderfully increased in extent f That the liver consists of a blind pouch, originating from the intestinal canal and be- coming more and more complicated, is further shown in many of the Mollusca, in which the excretory ducts are so large that they appear like branches of the intestine, and thus present a structure which is somewhat analogous to * Lemons d'An. Comp. t.4. p. 152. It is proper to observe that Cuvier, in thus alluding to a solid conglomerate gland, appears to have fallen into the common error respecting the nature of the minute granules, or acini as they are called. t M'uller de Gland. Secernent. Struct, p. 70, $5. those curious ccecal diverticula observed in certain of the Annelida, well seen in the aphrudita acuteata, and which are by some anatomists regarded as forming a rudimentary liver. The evolution of the liver in the embryo affords an additional proof of the disposition of the secreting surface or membrane in the interior of the compound glands. In one of the Gasteropods ( Limnaus stagnalis) the liver is first produced as a pellucid sac from the intestine. In an amphibious animal (buj'o cumpanisonus) a prolongation in the form of a sac is seen in the intestinal membrane, which constitutes the first appearance of the liver; as the development proceeds, the hepatic duct is formed, and becoming ramified, produces at length a number of branching tubes, which present a granulated form. The evolution of the liver in the green lizard (lacerta viridh) is very similar, the organ first appearing under the form of a hollow sac proceeding from and communicating with the cavity of the intestine, and subsequently having branches of ramified tubes added.* If from the investigation of these more simple forms, which might be multiplied almost ud in- finitum, we proceed to the conglomerate glands of Mammalia, it will be observed that, al- though the component parts of these highly organized bodies are so closely packed together as to present a solid and granular appearance, yet by a careful inspection it may be satisfac- torily determined that the true secreting struc- ture consists of tubuli with ccecal ends. For this purpose the testicle may be advantageously selected : if this organ without any previous injection be divided, the section at first sight seems to consist of a great number of small roundish bodies or granules; but if, as occa- sionally happens, the tubes are distended with semen at the time of death, by a more cautious examination it is immediately apparent that these little bodies are composed of a very fine tube coiled up or convoluted. By injecting the tubuli seminiferi with mercury, the formation of the little grains is rendered more evident; but the most successful mode of displaying the whole internal formation of the testis is by filling the tubuli with a coloured size injec- tion.f 11 was remarked by Ferrein J that the kid- ney is a tubular organ, and the extensive re- searches of Miiller as well as those of Huschke have proved that the secreting or cortical part is made up of an immense number of serpen- tine tubes of an equal diameter throughout, ending in blind sacs, and becoming continuous with the straight canals placed in the cones of the organ. This structure is seen in Jig. 216, where a magnified view of the cortical ducts of Ferrein, the secerning apparatus, and the straight excre- tory tubes is given as the parts exist in the sciurus. This structure offers a close resem- blance to the tubuliform liver of some insects. * Miiller 1. c. tab. x. Jig. 13. t Sir A. Cooper on Testicle. % Mem. de l'Acad. Roy. des Sc. 1749, p. 489.