272 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. gin; it is then situate in the angle formed by the three peduncles of the cerebellum at their junction with the hemisphere; behind the middle, beneath the superior and above the in- ferior, and before, or in common language, be- neath the floor of the fourth ventricle. Thus far the course of the nerve may be ascertained without much difficulty; it is probably the same point to which Santorini had traced it, as described in his ' Observations Anatomicae,' in 1724, and from which Scemmerring has more expressly stated it to be derived, in his work ' De corporis humani fabrica,' pub- lished 1798, in which he states "that it ap- pears to arise almost from the very floor of the fourth ventricle." * At the point last described Fig. 140. Lateral view of the pons, spinal bulb, and course of the Fifth Nerve in man. 1 Pons Varolii. 2 Spinal bulb. 3 Olivary body. 4 Spinal cord. 5 Superior peduncle of cerebellum. 6 Cut surfaces of middle ditto. 7 Inferior peduncle of cerebellum. 8 Cut surface of crus cerebri. 9 Ganglion of Fifth Nerve reversed. 10 Ganglionic portion of the nerve. 11 Non-ganglionic portion of Fifth Nerve. 11 Roots of non-ganglionic portion. 12 Eminence at the insertion of both portions of the Fifth Nerve. 13 Fasciculus to anterior column of spinal cord- 14 Fasciculus to posterior column. 15 Auditory nerve. 16 Portio dura. 17 Posterior roots of superior cervical nerves. * Santorini, however, appears to have followed the nerve out into the spinal bulb, though, as will be seen, he did not succeed in determining its real and ultimate connection. the greater packet is attached to the side of the medulla oblongata. The point of attachment is very close to the interior of the fourth ven- tricle, being separated from it only by a thin lamina, which is little, if any thing, more than the " epithelium" of Reil: it is situate in the angle formed by the peduncles of the cerebel- lum, behind the middle one, by the outer margin of the pons, and posterior to it, and above its lower one : it is also superior to the attachment of the auditory nerve, separated from it by an interval of some lines. We shall, in the next place, direct attention to the course and connection of the lesser packet of the nerve. In none of the authorities which the author has had an opportunity of consulting, has he found a particular origin assigned to the lesser packet. By most anatomical writers it is over- looked ; J. F. Meckel states that it can be traced a certain way into the crus, but he goes no further; Mayo asserts that the lesser portion arises close upon the greater, and, in a sketch of the origins of the nerves given by him in his Physiology, it is represented traversing the crus cerebelli, as a single fasciculus, above and behind the greater, and attached to some part above that from which the greater is re- presented to arise: but still the origin is not defined, and it is manifestly intended to be distinct from that of the greater packet. The author has succeeded, as it appears to him, satisfactorily in tracing both the roots of the lesser packet to a destination for which he was not prepared; at setting out he expected to have found the origin of the lesser different from that of the greater packet, and to have followed it to a prolongation of the anterior columns of the spinal cord, as has been stated by Harrison ;* it was therefore with surprise that, after a patient dissection, he succeeded in tracing both its roots to the same point, to which the greater packet is attached, behind the middle crus of the cerebellum (see Jig. 140, 12); both the roots traverse the crus, as the greater does, the inferior very frequently in company with and internal to the greater packet, or separated from it by a very thin stratum of the substance of the crus, the superior near to the superior surface of that part, and separated from the greater packet by an interposed stratum of two or more lines; the course of the latter is so near to the surface of the crus, that it can frequently be traced for a considerable way by the eye without dissec- tion : they present, in their mode of traversing the crus, two remarkable varieties ; in some in- stances the fasciculi, of which they are com- posed, are separated from each other and even interlaced with those of the crus, and in such the pursuit of them is intricate and difficult; in others they pass in two distinct packets, and in these they are more easily followed. As they proceed they approach the greater packet, so that the interval between them and it gradu- ally diminishes, and having traversed the crus, they are both attached below and behind it to * Dublin Dissector.