837 ILIAC ARTERIES. frequently, are covered not only by the skin and subcutaneous cellular structure, but also by a dense filamentary expansion, or fascia, which invests the penis beneath them, and they give branches to those structures as also to the fibrous membrane of the corpus cavernosum, and finally to the prepuce. The dorsal artery is at times furnished by the obturator, or the external pudic artery. Beside the varieties of origin which have been mentioned, the pudic presents some im- portant varieties in its course. It has been found by Burns in four instances, " instead of passing out of the pelvis between the sacro-sciatic ligaments to attach itself to the lateral and inferior part of the bladder, and to traverse the upper segment of the prostate gland in its course to the ramus of the ischium." Another variety is described by Harrison, in which the proper trunk of the pudic is found unusually small, and the dorsal artery of the penis arises originally and separately from the internal iliac,'runs along the side of the bladder and prostate gland, and escapes from the pelvis along with the dorsal vein of the penis beneath the arch of the pubis. The latter dis- position, mutatis mutandis, has been found by Tiedemann in the female as well as m the male, and is figured in his thirtieth plate. It is described by Winslow as the normal arrange- ment, only thataccording to him the vessel, which takes this unusual course, arises sometimes from the common pudic, at others from the iliac. Haller questions the occurrence of this disposition, but describes another, in which the inferior vesical artery arising from the middle hemorrhoidal is continued on the dorsum of the prostate into the dorsal artery of the penis, given, as in ordinary, from the pudic. Among the varieties of the arterial system few possess greater interest than these, inas- much as no foresight or skill can guard against the untoward accidents which attend their presence in lithotomy ; their possibility forbids a section of the prostate upward; but for- tunately they are rare. The situation of the pudic artery upon the exterior of the pelvis admits the possibility of tying the vessel in the living subject; the plan of operation necessary for the purpose is similar to that to be adopted with the gluteal artery, only it must be performed lower down ; it is the same with that for the ischiatic artery; for determining the situation of which or the pudic the following directions are given by Harrison :*—" Place the individual on his face with the lower extremity extended and tire toes turned inwards: feel for the summit of the great trochanter, and for the base or articulated end of the coccyx ; these two points are on a level; then draw a line from one to the other, and we may be certain that the pudic artery and the spine of the ischium are opposite the junction of the middle and internal thirds of this line." The ischiatic artery may be reached as easily, or even more so, than the * Vol. ii. p. 103. gluteal; but the difficulty which must attend the seeking for the pudic must be extreme. The external iliac artery, (arteria iliaca externa, Lat.; arttrc iliaque externe, Fr.; portion iliaque dc la erurale, Chauss.; Aussere Iiuft-puhader, Ger.) is the vessel destined for the supply of the lower extremity, of which the portion contained within the abdomen, in the iliac region, is denominated the " external" iliac, in contradistinction to the artery of the pelvis, the " internal." It commences at the division of the primi- tive iliac artery, at a point intermediate to the body of the last lumbar vertebra, or the sacro- vertebral prominence, and the sacro-iliac articu- lation, and it terminates at the crural arch, at a point midway between the superior anterior spinous process of the ilium and the spinous process of the pubis,* or at the outer side of the ilio-pectineal eminence of the os innomina- tum. The point at which the vessel com- mences is not uniform either in all subjects or on the two sides of the same; depending upon the point at which the primitive iliac divides, which is variable, it will be higher or lower, nearer to the vertebra or to the articulation, according to the situation of the bifurcation of that vessel: on the right side of the body the artery commences for the most part nearer to the body of the vertebra than on the left, on which it is of course nearer to the articulation ; hence the artery arising higher upon the former is longer upon that side than upon the latter, the difference in length varying from a quarter to half an inch. The external iliac terminates in the femoral or crural artery, strictly so called ; but the distinction between the two is one only of convenience, inasmuch as they are but different stages of the same vessel; there appears therefore much propriety in the * The situation of the artery at its termination is differently stated by different writers ; Boyer states it to be midway between the spinous proeess of the ilium and the symphysis pubis; Cloquet, midway between tlie spine of the ilium and the spinous pro- cess of the pubis ; Harrison, about half an inch to the pubic side of the centre of the crural arch. The relation of the vessel to the points between which it is placed, is probably not the same in all cases; but that assigned to it by Cloquet seems most generally applicable. According to Cooper, with whom Cloquet concurs, there are, in the male, 3^ inches from the symphysis pubis to the middle of the artery, and in the female 3|, while the distance to the superior anterior spinous process of the ilium is in the former 53., and in the latter six inches ; the artery must therefore ba external to the mid-point, being for the most part concave forward and inward above, and convex forward below ; but in this particular it is not uni- form, being sometimes nearly straight; the degreo of its tortuosity also appears to depend upon the age of the subject and the plenitude of the vessel. The direction of the artery is oblique, and as the primitive iliac and it are continuous in the adult, the course of both the vessels maybe defined, during life, by a line extending from the umbilicus, or from half an inch below it, at its left side, to a point midway between the superior anterior spinous pro- cess of the ilium and the spinous process of the pubis, the upper extremity of the line varying according to the situation at which the aorta divides.