115 ENTOZOA. Dr. Arthur Farre, whose powers of patient and minute observation and practised skill with the microscope, are well known to those who have the pleasure of his acquaintance, discovered,by theexamination of recent Trichinae under favourable circumstances, that they pos- sess an intestinal canal with distinct parietes. He describes it as commencing at the large end of the worm, bounded by two parallel but slightly irregular lines for about one-fifth of the length of the body, and then assuming a sacculated structure which " becomes gradually lost towards the smaller end where the canal assumes a zig-zag or perhaps spiral course, and at length terminates at the small end."* In a recent examination of some Trichina from an aged male subject at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, I perceived a transverse slit close to the small extremity on the concave side, which I regard as the anus. The muscles which are affected by the Tri- china are those of the voluntary class; and the superficial ones are found to contain them in greater numbers than those which are deep- seated; the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and other large flat muscles usually present them in great abundance. They have been detected in the muscles of the eye, and even in those belonging to the ossicles of the ear, and of whose actions we are wholly uncon- scious: they also occur in the diaphragm, in the muscles of the tongue, in those of the soft palate, in the constrictors of the pharynx, in the levator ani, in the external sphincter ani, and in the muscles of the urethra. But they have not yet been detected in the muscular tunic of the stomach and intestines, in the detrusor urinae, or in the heart. It is an inte- resting fact that all the muscles infested by the Trichina are characterized by the striated ap- pearance of the ultimate fasciculi: while the muscles of organic life, in which they are absent, have, with the exception of the heart, smooth fibres, not grouped into fasciculi, but reticularly united. From the instances of this parasitical affec- tion of the human body which have already been recorded, and from other unpublished cases in which I have examined the worms, it is evident that their presence in the system is unconnected with age, sex, or any particular form of disease. They have been found in the bodies of persons who have died of cancer of; the penis; tubercles in the lungs; exhaustion | of the vital powers by extensive external ul- ceration of the leg; fever combined with tu- bercle^ in the lungs; aneurism of the aorta; sudden depression of the vital powers after a comminuted fracture of the humerus; diar- rhoea. The cases which had occurred before the publication of the first description of this Entozoon led me to conceive that, although the species was of so minute a size, yet the num- ber of individuals infesting the body was so immense, and their distribution through the muscular system so extensive, that they might * See Medical Gazette, December, 1835. ment required for their support; and I ob- served " that it was satisfactory to believe, that the Trichina are productive of no other con- sequences than debility of the muscular system; and it may be questioned how far they can be considered as a primary cause of debility, since an enfeebled state of the vital powers is the probable condition under which they are originally developed. No painful or incon- venient symptoms were present in any of the above-mentioned cases to lead the medical attendants to suspect the condition of the mus- cular system, which dissection afterwards dis- closed : and it is probable that in all cases the patient himself will be unconscious of the presence of the microscopic parasites which are enjoying their vitality at his expense."* Since writing the above, a case has occurred in which the Trichinae were met with in the muscles of a man who was killed while in the apparent enjoyment of robust health by a frac- ture of the skull. I received portions of the muscles of the larynx of this individual from my friend Mr. Curling, Assistant-Surgeon to the London-Hospital, who has recorded the case in the Medical Gazette, and the worms were similar in every respect to those occurring in the diseased subjects. The deduction there- fore of the development of the Trichina being dependent on an enfeeblement of the vital powers is invalidated by this interesting ex- ample.f Leaving now the consideration of Entozoa, which from their minute size and organization would have ranked with the vast assemblage of animalcules which are collected under the head Infusoria in the Regne Animal, we come next to the consideration of the animals which form that scarcely less heterogeneous class, the Entozoa of Rudolphi. These are distributed by that Naturalist into five orders, which may be synthetically arranged and characterized as follows. Ordo I. Cystica, Rudi. (jtyo-Ti?) vesica.) Vermes vesiculares, Blasenwiirmer, Cyst-worms or Hydatids. Char. Body flattened or rounded, conti- nued posteriorly into a cyst, which is sometimes common to many indivi- duals. Head provided with pits (bo- thria two or four) or suctorious pores (four), and with a circle of hooklels sV^XA.er with four unarmed or uncinated vSi^*/tentacles. No discernible organs of generation. Obs. This order is not a very natural one; the species composing it are closely allied to the Tape-worms in the structure of the head, and when this is combined with a jointed structure of the body, as in the Cysticercus J'asciolaris common in the liver of Rats, the small caudal vesicle forms but a slight ground for a distinc- tion of ordinal importance. The Cystica of Rudolphi form part of the Order Tanioidea of Cuvier; and maybe regarded as representing * Zoological Transactions, vol. i. p. 315. t Zool. Trans, vol. i. p. 323. i 2