ORGAN OF HEARING. 545 The tympanic ring lies immediately behind the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone, from which its anterior part is separated by a fissure. The middle part of this fissure, together with a line indicating the whole, remains permanent in the adult, and is known by the name of fissure of Glasser. Its internal orifice is, in the adult as it is in the young bone, in the outer wall of the tympanum, anteriorly of, and close to the groove for the reception of the membrana tympani. The fissure of Glasser gives passage to the ligament, or so-called great external muscle of the malleus, which is inserted into the processus gracilis of the malleus. The chorda tympani does not actually pass through the fissure of Glasser as commonly described, but as M. Huguier* has shown, through a par- ticular canal, extremely narrow and about half an inch long, which runs in the line of the fissure, and opens at the re-entering angle be- tween the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone. • Membrane of' the tympanum,(membrana tym- pani, Fr. la membrane, du tympan ou du tam- bour,) Germ, das TrommetfeU oder Pauken- j'ell.—A proper membrana tympani exists only in birds and mammifera. In reptiles there is a very imperfect representation of one. In birds the membrana tympani is convex externally, in the mammifera, on the contrary, it is concave. The convexity externally in birds forms a very important distinguishing character of the class. In the cetaceous mammifera the membrana tym- pani is thick, and presents a prolongation like the tube of a funnel into the cavity of the tym- panum. The membrana tympani is situated at the bottom of the external auditory passage, be- tween which and the cavity of the tympanum it is interposed like a partition. It is a thin, semi-transparent, glistening, dry-looking mem- brane. Its shape is an oval, truncated at one extremity, the upper. Rather more than the upper half of its vertical diameter is traversed by the handle of the malleus, which, when the membrane is examined on the living subject by means of the speculum auris, appears directed from above downwards and backwards. The longest diameter of the membrana tym- pani, which is directed from above downwards, and from behind forwards, is about eight- twentieths of an inch,and its shortest, that from behind forwards, somewhat less than seven twentieths of an inch. It is fixed by its cir- cumference in the circular groove already men- tioned, at the inner orifice of the osseous part of the external auditory passage, or in the foetus, the tympanic ring; and as in the adult the ori- fice is cut obliquely from behind forwards, from above downwards, and from without in- wards, so is the direction of the membrane. Hence it forms, with the upper and posterior wall of the auditory passage, an obtuse angle, and with the lower and anterior wall, an acute angle. Figure 249 represents the adult membrana * Cruveilhicr, Anatomie Descriptive, tome iii. p. 508. VOL. II. tympani of the right side; a. as seen from the auditory passage; b. as seen from the tympa- num. Its shape, size, the mode in which the malleus is connected with it, and the cartila- ginous ring which forms its circumfeience, are sufficiently well shown. Fig. 249. The membrana tympani does not present plane surfaces. On the contrary its centre is drawn inwards, so that it is concave externally, and convex internally. This disposition of the membrana tympani depends on its connexion with the handle of the malleus. The latter being- fixed in its whole length to considerably more than the upper half of the vertical diameter of the former, and having an inward direction in- fenorly, the membrana tympani is, as it were, drawn inwards to it, hence the concavity ex- ternally. As regards the composition of the membrana tympani, it consists of a proper membrane and two borrowed layers, one of .which, covering the external surface of the proper membrane, is a delicate continuation, in the form of a blind end, of the lining of the auditory passage, and the other, situated on the inner surface, is a continuation of the delicate membrane which gives a lining generally to the cavity of the tympanum. The latter adheres very closely to the proper membrane, the other not so inti- mately, as it readily separates from it by putre- faction, and can be drawn out along with the rest of the epidermis of the external auditory passage in a cul-de-sac. Structure of the proper membrane.-—The pro- per membrane can be divided into two layers, an outer thin one, consisting of radiating fibres, and an inner thicker layer, which is less dis- tinctly fibrous, though, when torn it does indi- cate a fibrous disposition, and that in a direc- tion opposite to the former. The radiating fibres run from its circumference towards the centre, to be fixed to the handle of the malleus along its whole extent. Towards the centre they become stronger, and being, of course, more asrgregated, the layer which they compose is thicker and more compact in the centre than towards its circumference. The fibres which cross the radiating ones are also more aggre- gated at the centre. They run parallel with the handle of the malleus, and turn round its extremity. At the circumference of the proper membrane, there is a thick firm ligamen- tous or cartilaginous ring, (Jig. 249,) which is fixed in the groove of the bone. This liga- mentous ring appears to be formed by an ag- gregation of the circular fibres interwoven with the peripheral extremities of the radiating ones. The part of the membrana tympani midway between its centre and circumference is the thinnest. The radiating fibres have been supposed to 2 o