941 INSECTA. before the retractor. The other retractor (g) arises from the anterior superior boundary of the pronotum, and passing downwards is in- serted into the jugular plate between the larger levator and the flexor capitis. The muscles proper to the prothorax consist of four pairs, by which it is united to the suc- ceeding segments. The first of these, the superior retractor, retractor prothoracis superior (/i), arises by a broad fleshy head from the anterior external margin of the pronotum, and passing directly backwards is inserted by a tendon into the prophragma a little on one side of the median line. The next muscle of im- portance, the i)vferiorretrdctor{i),arises from the anterior border of the medi-furca, and is united to the posterior of the ante-furca, thus forming with that muscle part of the great recti of the larva. This muscle must be considered as the proper depressor of the prothorax. The eleva- tor prothoracis (k) is narrow, pyramidal, and arises fleshy from the lateral surface of the prophragma. It passes downwards and is attached by a narrow tendon to the superior portion of the ante-furca. The rotatores pro- thoracis are the largest of all the muscles of this segment. They arise, one on each side (/), by a narrow head from the posterior part of the pronotum, and passing beneath the pro- phragma are considerably enlarged and attached to the tegument between the two segments, and also to the anterior portion of the meso- thorax. The remaining muscle proper to the prothorax is the closer of the spiracle, an ex- ceedingly small muscle not shewn in the draw- ing. The other muscles of this segment are those of the legs, which are of considerable size. There are three distinct flexors of the coxa (in, n, o). The first of these arises from the superior lateral border of the pronotum, the second from the superior posterior border, the third from the sides of the prothorax, and the fourth a little nearer posteriorly, and the whole of them are attached by narrow tendons to the sides of the coxa. But there is only one extensor muscle to this part. In like manner the extensor of the trochanter is foimed of three portions, (Jig- 403, a, b, c,) but there is only one flexor (d) and one abductor (e). In the femur there is one extensor (/'), a long penniform muscle that occupies the superior part of the thigh, and is attached by a tendon to the anterior posterior margin of the joint, formed by the end of the tibia. There is also but one flexor (g) in the femur, which, like the preceding muscle, is penniform, and occupies the inferior portion of the femur, and its tendon is attached to the inferior border of the tibia. In the tibia itself there is also one flexor and one extensor. The flexor (i) occupies the superior portion of the limb, and ends in a long tendon (/) that passes directly through the joints of the tarsus on their inferior surface, and is attached to the inferior margin of the claw (g). The extensor (/;) occupies the infe- rior portion of the tibia and is shorter than the preceding muscle, like which it ends in a long tendon that is attached to the upper margin of the claw. Besides these muscles, which are Fig. 403. Muscles of the anterior leg of Melolontha vulgaris. ( Straus. J common to the joints of the tarsus, there are two others belonging to the claw, situated in the last joint. The first of these, the extensor (in), is short and occupies the superior portion of the last phalanx of the tarsus, and the other, the flexor (n), is a much longer penniform muscle, which occupies nearly the whole of the upper and under surface of the posterior part of the phalanx, and is attached, like the long flexor of the tarsus, to the inferior part of the claw. These are the muscles of the pro- thorax and its organs of locomotion, as shewn by Straus, and exemplify the extent unto which the muscular system is developed in perfect insects. The muscles of the other segments of the thorax differ considerably from these in their form and arrangement, but the length unto which this article has already been carried prevents us from entering particularly into their consideration. The great depressor muscle of the wings, musculus mctanoti (fig. 402, x), occupies with its fellow the chief portion of the dorsal surface of the meso- and meta-thorax, and the elevators and pretractors, musculi laterules me- tanoti (j/,?/), the lateral superior parts of the same segment, and descending obliquely back- wards are attached to the metaphragma and base of the post-furca. The other muscles which belong to the legs and those that connect the thorax to the abdomen are of considerable size. One of those of the posterior legs, the second flexor (z), is seen immediately behind the muscles of the wings, and the extensors (a, a) at the posterior part of the segment. In the abdomen the chief muscles are the dorsal