HIBERNATION. 7G9 more susceptible of the influence of cold, in inducing sleep and the loss of temperature. The hedgehog, which awakes from its hibernation, and does not eat, returns to its lethargy sooner than the one which is allowed food. The respiration is very nearly suspended in hibernation. That this function almost ceases, is proved, 1st, by the absence of all detectible respiratory acts ; 2dly, by the almost entire ab- sence of any change in the air of the pneuma- tometer; 3dly, by the subsidence of the tem- perature to that of the atmosphere; and 4thly, by the capability of supporting, for a great length of time, the entire privation of air. 1. I have adopted various methods to ascer- tain the entire absence of the acts of respiration. I placed bats in small boxes, divided by a par- tition of silk riband, the cover of which con- sisted of glass, and in the side of which a small hole was made to admit of placing a long light rod or feather under the animal's stomach. The least respiratory movement caused the extremity of this rod to pass through a considerable space, so that it became peifectly apparent. Over the hibernating hedgehog I placed a similar rod, fixing one extremity near the ani- mal, and leaving the other to move freely over an index. During hibernation not the slightest movements of these rods could be observed, although they were diligently watched. But the least touch, the slightest shake immediately caused the bat to commence the alternate acts of respiration, whilst it invariably produced the singular effect of a deep and sonorous inspira- tion in the hedgehog. It is only necessary to touch the latter animal to ascertain whether it be in a state of hibernation or not: in the former case there is this deep sonorous inspira- tion ; in the latter, the animal merely moves and coils itself up a little more closely than before. After the deep inspiration, there are a few feeble respirations,and then total quiescence. The bat makes similar respirations without the deep inspiration, and then relapses into sus- pended respiration. 2. As the acts of respiration are nearly sus- pended during hibernation, so are the changes induced in the atmospheric air. On January the 28th, the temperature of the atmosphere being 42°, I placed a bat in the most perfect state of hibernation and undis- turbed quiet, in the pneumatometer, during the whole night, a space of ten hours, from lh.30m. to llh. 30m. There was no perceptible absorp- tion of gas. Having roused the animal a little, I replaced it in the pneumatometer, and continued to dis- turb it from time to time, by moving the appa- ratus. It continued inactive, and between the hours of lh. 20m. and 4h., there was the absorp- tion of one cubic inch only of gas. Being much roused at four o'clock, and re- placed in the pneumatometer, the bat now con- tinued moving about incessantly ; in one hour, five cubic inches of gas had disappeared. It was then removed. A further absorption took place of -8 of a cubic inch of gas. Thus the same little animal, which, in a state of hibernation, passed ten hours without respi- ration, absorbed or converted into carbonic acid, VOL. II. 5-8 cubic inches of oxygen gas in one hour when in a state of activity. In an intermediate condition, it removed one cubic inch of oxygen in two hours and forty minutes. I repeated this experiment on February the 18th. A bat, in a state of perfect hibernation, was placed in the pneumatometer, and remained in it during the space of twenty-four hours. There was now the indication of a very slight absorption of gas, not, however, amounting to a cubic inch. On February the 22d, I repeated this expe- riment once more, continuing it during the space of sixty hours; the thermometer de- scended gradually, but irregularly, from 41° to 38°; the result is given in the subjoined table. External Absorp- Dura- Date Temperature, tion. tion. Feb. 22 11 P.M 41° 23 11 a.m 38$..** "8 12h 11 p.m 39± -75 12 24 11 a.m 38 .... -5.... 12 11 p.m 39 ....'75 12 25 11 a.m 38 -6 12 3-4 60 From this experiment it appears that 3'4 cubic inches of oxygen gas disappeared in sixty hours, from the respiration of a bat in the state of lethargy. It has been seen that in a state of activity, an equal quantity of this gas disap- peared in less than half that number of minutes. The respiration of the hibernating bat descends to a sub-reptile state ; it will be seen shortly that the irritability of the heart and of the mus- cular fibre generally, is propoitionably aug- mented. In this experiment it is probable that the lethargy of the animal was not quite complete. Should the temperature of the atmosphere fall, and continue at 32°, I shall again repeat it under these circumstances. The respiration will probably be still mote nearly suspended. It is important to remark, that the registra- tion of the quantity of absorption in these expe- riments was not begun until several hours after the animal had been inclosed within the jar of the pneumatometer, so that the absorption of the carbonic acid always present in atmospheric air was excluded from the result. It may be a question whether the slight quantity of respiration I have mentioned be cutaneous. The absence of the acts of respira- tion would lead us to this opinion. But it may be observed, that these acts have not been watched, and can scarcely be watched continu- ously enough, to determine the question of their entire absence. Some contrivance to as- certain whether the rod has moved along the index daring the absence of the observer would resolve every doubt upon this interesting point. And I think it right to remark, that after the apparent total cessation of respiration, as ob- served by the means which have just been de- scribed, there is probably still a slight diaphrag- matic breathing. I am led to this conclusion, by having observed a slight movement of the flank in a favourable light, unattended by any motion of the thorax or epigastrium. 3. Much precaution is required in ascertain- 3 £