GLAND. 490 simply formed by the condensation of the con- necting cellular tissue, but in the larger glands a proper fibrous capsule is provided, which adheres more or less intimately to the proper glandular texture. General conclusions respecting the minute structure of glands. 1. That throughout the whole range of the animal kingdom and in every species of gland there is one uniform type, from which the glandular formation in no instance deviates. 2. That every gland consists of a membrane derived either from the skin or mucous mem- brane. 3. That this membrane is disposed either in the form of a pouch or of a tube more or less ramified, and terminates in every instance, with- out an exception, in a blind extremity. 4. That the secreting canals are most diversi- fied in form, being simply sacculated, branch- ing, pennitifid, nail-shaped, or enlarged at the commencement, cellular, berry-shaped, serpen- tine. 5. That granules or acini in the hypothetical sense of writers do not in reality exist. 6. That whatever may be the variety of form it is always subordinate to the grand principle which the whole glandular system displays,— namely, that the largest possible extent of secreting surface is contained in the smallest possible space. 7. That there is no immediate connexion or continuity between the secreting canals and the sanguiferous vessels. Hypotheses respecting the minute structure of glands.—I was desirous in the first part of this article to convey to the reader a com- prehensive view of the glandular structure, unincumbered by any reference to the opinions of anatomists on this subject; but the hy- potheses of Malpighi and Kuysch have so long divided the world of science, that it is necessary to ascertain how far the doctrines advocated by those celebrated men are in accordance with the above-stated conclusions. In doing this, however, much difficulty is experienced, especially in considering the opinions of Malpighi, inasmuch as his com- parisons of the minute structure of the liver, of which organ he principally treated, are very vague and obscure, and being for the most part unaccompanied by illustrative plates, it is almost impossible in many of his descriptions to detect the meaning he wishes to convey. But, notwithstanding these obstacles, it is evident, on studying his account of the liver and kidney, that justice has not been done to his researches; for he not only corrected many of the then prevailing errors, but also ascertained several important points connected with this interesting branch of anatomy. Malpighi compares the minute lobules of the liver and other conglomerate glands to a bunch of grapes, these lobules being joined to the neighbouring lobules by intermediate vessels. His words are, ': for as an entire bunch of grapes is formed of small bunches by a communion and tying together of vessels, which small bunches are themselves formed into a mass by appended grapes (acini); so the whole liver is formed by lobules many times folded, and which are themselves formed of glandular globules."* It is thus observed that Malpighi describes in the liver larger and smaller lobules ; and it is to these latter that the celebrated but vague term of acini appears to be more particularly applied. He observes that the lobules are of various forms in different animals ; in fishes having the shape of a trefoil, in the cat six-sided, &c. The inter- lobular spaces are noticed as being distinct in fishes, but as obscure in the more perfect animals. With respect to the intimate structure of the small lobules, or acini, Malpighi conceived that each of them consisted of a hollow vesicle, receiving the secreted fluid from the small arteries and conveying it into one of the roots or branches of the hepatic duct; or, in other words, that the structure of the acinus was the same as that of the simple mucous follicle. Owing, however, to the imperfect means then possessed of prosecuting such inquiries, it is certain that Malpighi did not detect the ultimate structure; for more exact observations have proved that the last divisions of the secreting canals, although they constantly terminate in ccecal extremities, do not always end in follicles, but that they may consist of serpentine tubes, as in the kidney, or of pennatifid canals, &c. It also has been determined that what he regarded as the last divisions of the ducts, or acini, are themselves composed of smaller canals. But his observations on the develope- ment of the liver in the chick shew that he was acquainted with the essential facts con- nected with the structure of that organ, and with the mode of its formation ; for among other interesting remarks, he says that on the seventh day of incubation the liver of a yellow- ish or ashen colour presents granules of rather an oblong form, and "as it were blind pouches, appended to the hepatic duct."f This hypothesis, founded as it is on so large a body of evidence, was generally re- ceived ; but the discovery of the art of minute injection, which seemed to afford ocular de- monstration of the fallacy of Malpighi's theory, induced the majority of anatomists to adopt the ideas rather pompously announced by Ruysch. This celebrated anatomist, rejecting the hypothesis of Malpighi, contended]: that he had proved, by injection, that the arteries are directly continuous with the excretory ducts; or that the little ducts proceed from the minute arteries, like lesser from larger brandies; and that each acinus consists prin- cipally of bloodvessels, but contains also an excretory duct.§ In considering the merits of these two hy- potheses, it becomes apparent that Ruysch supported his opinion by evidence of a most insufficient character; for in investigating the * De Viscer. Struct, cap. iii. p. 18. t De Format. Pulli in Ovo, p. 20. j Opuscul. Anat. de Fabric. Gland. Opera omnia, t. iii. § hoc cit. p. 56, Jig. 2.