INSECTA. 970 forms a large bag or crop, which we shall pre- sently see more perfectly developed in the Ilaustellata. While passing into the abdomen, this part becomes suddenly constricted, and terminates in a short neck, immediately behind which is an oval and very muscular gizzard (£), which is developed internally into four broad longitudinal horny ridges (a, b), armed with strong sharp bristles, as formerly shewn by Leon Dufour* in insects of this family. Be- tween these ridges are two channels armed in like manner with a double row of minute hairs, which assist in more minutely comminu- ting the hard parts that are passed into the gizzard and escape trituration by the ridges. The substance of the gizzard is particularly muscular, and resembles in colour the gizzard of a bird. On its external surface the thin shining pentonceal coat is very distinctly seen. At its base the gizzard is much constricted, and the ridges within it meet together so as to form a distinct valve, by which this is divided from the next portion of the alimentary canal, the chylific ventricule (k). This part is capacious and muscular, and the double mucous lining within it is very distinct. It is of considerable length, and is gradually decreased in size from its com- mencement to its termination at the pyloric valve, where, as in the larva, it receives the he- patic vessels. It is covered throughout its whole course by an immense number of appa- rently ccecal vessels («, b, c), which in the upper half of its course are of considerable length, but in the lower become gradually more and more shortened. Burmeisterf thinks these ccecal vessels are derived entirely from the inner or mucous coat of the ventricule by intussus- cepted portions, which pass through the mus- cular coat between the fibres which are pushed aside by them, and consequently that they do not derive any covering from the muscular coat, but of this we have considerable doubt. In- ternally they certainly open each by a distinct valvular oritice, derived from the mucous lining, as we have seen in Carabus monilis (b), and externally are covered by the peritonceal coat, and on each side are furnished with a minute ramifying tracheal vessel, derived from the tra- cheae which are distributed over the alimentary canal, as shewn by Dufour. We cannot, how- ever, imagine that they derive no covering from the muscular coat of the ventricule, more espe- cially while it is admitted that the ccecal appen- dages attached to the anterior and posterior por- tion of the ventricule in the Gryllida derive a portion of their structure from the muscular coat as well as the mucous. These are most decidedly secretory organs, and elaborate a fluid, probably distinct in its chemical composi- tion from that of the biliary vessels at the pyloric extremity of the stomach. The ilium (/) is of considerable length. On its exterior surface the longitudinal muscular bands are distinctly marked. It is much longer in pro- portion to the other parts of the intestine in the perfect insect than in the larva. It terminates in a very large pear-shaped colon (;«, n), the * Annales des Sciences Naturelles, torn. ii. pi. 20. t Op. cit. p. 132. upper part of which corresponds to the ceecum, which we shall see highly developed in some other species. It is there marked by six elon- gated elevated glandular protuberances, situated between the longitudinal muscular bands. These elevations seen on the exterior of the part correspond to others which we have found equally strongly marked in the colon of Hy- menoptera, and we suspect are the mucous glands of the great intestine. The colon is usually distended with faeces, and terminates in a very short narrow rectum (o). At each side of the colon are situated the anal or urinary vessels (s), which we shall presently describe. This may serve to illustrate the general form of the alimentary canal in carnivorous Coleoptera. In certain parts of its course it is, however, more developed in other species. Thus in the Dytkida, we have found the oesophagus in Hydulicus cinereus, as described by authors in Dyticux, expanded into a large crop-shaped bag, and the stomach shorter than that of the Carabidce, and covered by long cceca throughout its whole extent. It receives at its base the in- sertion of four large hepatic vessels, and also two very much smaller ones, similar to those just seen in the larva of the Culandrli. The anal vessels are also present, but their excretory bladder is larger, and its neck much shorter than in the Carabidm. The most remarkable structure is in the proventriculus or gizzard. The external appearances of this part resembles that of an acorn in its cup. It is exceedingly muscular, and is armed internally with four re- markable teeth arranged around its inferior por- tion, between four horny ridges developed from the mucous lining of the part, and covered with very strong stiff hairs, as in the Carabidtc. Each of these teeth is broad and somewhat oval at its base, and in shape resembles a helmet, the crest of which is acute, and armed with two sharp- pointed prominences adapted for cutting the food, which it is known is swallowed more rapa- ciously and less comminuted by these insects than by Carabida. This form of alimentary canal with a gizzard and gastric cceca exists in the Silphidte,* and most of the carnivorous feeders. Thus it exists also in Staphylinidte,\ in which we have found the gizzard in Creophi- lus maxillosus armed with double longitudinal horny ridges, covered with stiff hairs as in Ca- rabus, like which also the stomach is covered with gastric cceca, which are larger at the an- terior than at the posterior part of the organ. The anal vessels are also largely developed. Dufour has observed the same in Stap/iyli- nus erythropterus. The gizzard is also found in some of the Neuroptera. It is very largely developed in the carnivorous Pumtrpa com- munis, in which, however, we have not found it thrown into regular longitudinal folds, but into transverse and oblique rugae covered with stiff hairs. The alimentary canal in this species is of considerable length, perhaps nearly three times that of the body. The oesophagus is short? but is developed at its under surface into a minute oval crop, perfectly distinct from * Dufour, op. cit. torn. iii. pi. 13, fig. 5. t Id.