990 INSECTA. heat. These curious facts tend much to con- firm the opinion as to the chief origin of animal heat, but for farther illustration of this interest- ing subject we must refer our readers to the article Respiration. Organs of generation.—These parts have already been treated of to some extent in a preceding article, (Generation, Organs of,) and the forms which they assume in different orders, more particularly those of the male organs, having in part been described, we shall only briefly allude to them on the present occasion, in consequence partly of the great length to which this paper has already been ex- tended, and partly that we shall necessarily return to this subject, more especially with re- ference to the functions of these parts, in de- scribing that class of Articulata, which in every respect are so closely related to insects, the Myriapoda, to which we must refer. In our observations on the skeleton we have shown that the terminal segments of the body invariably form part of the external organs of generation. The long ovipositor of the Chry- sidida, composed of four distinct annuli, retrac- tile within one another, and even within the proper abdomen itself, are only the terminal segments of the body, which is thus made to consist of fewer, but proportionately larger annuli than the abdomen of those in which so many segments are not employed in the forma- tion of the generative organs. A corresponding structure is also seen in the Panorpidce, in which the separate annuli, not retractile to so great an extent as in the Chrysididce, but capa- ble of being extended to as great a length, are distinctly shown to form part of the abdomen, while the corresponding parts in the male, the terminal segments, are developed into a claw- shaped prehensile organ. A similar modifica- tion of structure exists in all other insects. In some species one or more of these parts be- comes atrophied, or is developed to a greater extent than the others, and the result is that in some instances we find long, exsertile, and appa- rently new organs, while in others some parts, even of the annuli themselves, appear to be ab- sent. But the normal number is almost every where present, either simply as terminal plates of the abdomen, between which the proper ex- cretory portion of the organs of generation is concealed, or more highly developed, and form- ing a separate sheath for that structure. In the male insect (fig. 437) the organs con- sist of an external portion, the penis (h), or " organ of intromission," in which is inclosed the termination of the ductus ejaculatorius, which extends backwards, and is connected with the vesicular seminales (e) and vasa dej'e- rentia, which are connected with the epididymis and the proper testes («). These parts are found in a large number of insects, in some de- veloped to a great extent, but in others almost entirely atrophied. This is the order in which the parts are met with when passing from without inwards. The penis of the male, like the ovipositor of the female, assumes a variety of forms. It is usu- ally inclosed between two lateral plates, the ana- Male organs of generation of Athalia centifoliee. m (Prize Essay.) j Fig. 437. logues of the sheath of the ovipositor, and which are derived from the terminal or penultimate segment of the body. With- in this isacorrugated soft membrane, the preputium, which is continuous with, and is reflected inwards from the inferior margin of the anal aperture, and sepa- rates the organs of generation from the alimentary canal. When the penis is retracted it is covered by this membrane, which is corrugated upon it (fig. 402, s). In Coleoptera, as in the Carabidie and Melolonthida, the penis is a long hor- ny tube, retractile within the abdomen on the under surface as far as the anterior segments. The strong horny co- vering of this organ is simply a consolidated state of parts of the tissues which in other instances are soft and flexible. It contains within it the excretory portion of the ejaculatory duct. In most of the Coleoptera, and in many other species, it has this strong hardened exterior, ne- cessary apparently for its employment by cer- tain species, in which there is little flexibility of the abdominal segments, as an organ of in- tromission. In Carabus monilis, as noticed also in C. clathratus by Burmeister, the hard- ened case of the penis is gently curved down- wards to facilitate its introduction into the vulva of the female. At its extremity on the under surface it is a little elongated, and it is termi- nated by a soft corrugated glandiform structure, which is perforated in its centre, and represents a glans penis, the perforation in its centre being the oritice of the excretory duct. In other Coleoptera the penis is also inclosed in a horny sheath, and presents a great variety of forms in different species. In many instances it is fur- nished at its extremity with short hooked spines, by means of which the male effectually retains his connexion with the female. The external sheath of the male organs, which incloses the penis, is analogous to that of the ovipositor of the female, and is employed when it is well developed to open the vulva of the female. In many species it is scarcely at all developed, being like the sheath of the ovipositor only a highly developed portion of the lateral plates of the terminal abdominal segments. The cir- cumstances above referred to will not allow us to describe in detail the forms of these organs of generation in many species, we shall there- fore content ourselves with a brief notice of some of those of the Hymenoptera (fig. 437). The general form of the penis in this Order is similar to that of Athalia, and consists of a