944 INSECTA. diverge a little from each other, and include between them the insertions of the first set of diagonal muscles, and at the posterior part of the third segment again approach each other, and form the third ganglion (3). Fig. 406. A. Nervous system of the larva o f Sphinx ligtistri. (Newport, Phil. Trans.) They then again diverge, and continuing their course into the next segment, pass on each side of the insertion of a second set of muscles, and approaching at the hinder part of the fourth segment form the fourth ganglion, (4,) from which they continue their course side by side, and in the next segment form the fifth and last ganglion, (5,) that enters into the composition of the thoracic portion of the nervous cord in the perfect insect. From the fifth ganglion the cords are continued in a direct line, into the sixth, seventh, and succeeding segments, form- ing in each a double ganglion, to the eleventh, where they form the terminal ganglion (11,12). This is considerably larger than any of the pre- ceding, being in reality composed of two dis- tinct pairs, which originally were separated from each other by intervening cords, and be- longed to the eleventh and twelfth segments, but which seem to approach and become closely approximated to each other during the earlier period of the larva state, as suggested by Dr. Grant, and supported by the fact that these ganglia are found more or less approximated together in different individuals, the terminal ganglion in some being distinctly formed of two pairs, scarcely united, and in others so com- pletely coalesced as hardly to be distinguished. In other Lepidoptera, as in Odonestis potatoria and Lusiocampu neustria, and as represented also by Lyonet, in Cossus ligniperdu,* the ganglia continue distinct, and are separated by a very short portion of the cords. ■ But in the Timarcha, the eleventh and twelfth ganglia have completely coalesced, and it is remark- able that they are also united even in the rudimentary form of the nervous system in the aculeate Hymenoptera, as in the larva of the bee, and even in its still more rudimentary state in the larva of Ichneumon Atropos, in both which there are originally thirteen distinct pairs of ganglia, including the supra-cesophageal ones, although Burmeister has imagined that the apodal larvae of Hymenoptera have a nervous system without ganglia,f similar to what he has observed and figured in the larvae of some Dip- tera. It was shown by Swammerdam, J that in the Lamellicornes, as in Oryctes nasicurnis, the cords are united laterally, and do not extend beyond the fourth segment, from whence the nerves radiate into the abdomen. In Dyticus, according to Burmeister,§ the two approxi- mated cords are very short, and the pairs of ganglia are contiguous to each other, and he has found a similar form of the nervous system in the Hog-beetles, Calandru sommeri, in which there are twelve pairs of closely approximated subcesophageal ganglia. The supra-cesophageal pair in this species are distinct, as in Timarcha, but each pair of the subcesophageal has co- alesced into a single mass, as in that insect, and the whole do not extend beyond the fifth seg- ment, from whence the nerves radiate into the abdomen, as in the Lamellicornes. These are the conditions which the double cord presents in the different classes. In describing the nerves that proceed from it, we shall divide them into those of the head, the thorax, the abdomen, and the organic functions. * Plate ix. t Manual, (translat.) p. 279. \ Biblia "Natura, Tab. xxviii. fig. 1. \ Op. cit.