REGIONS OF THE HAND. 528 region are, at the superior and external part, when the thumb is extended and abducted, an elongated depression, bounded externally by the two short extensor tendons of the thumb, and internally by its long extensor and the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis longior. In this depression the pulsation of the radial artery may be felt, also the heads of the two first metacarpal bones: internally and about the same level there is a hollow corres- ponding to the union of the wrist and hand ; and at this point we can feel the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris and the sty- loid process of the ulna. When the thumb is adducted the first dorsal interosseous projects considerably. The fingers appear longer on their dorsal aspect, the interdigital web that was noticed on their palmar surface being here wanting. 1. The skin is very loose and thrown into transverse folds; opposite the two last joints of the fingers may generally be seen three or more transverse furrows; the middle one is the deepest and most constant, and an incision made about a line and a half below it will hit upon the articulation. It resembles that on the back of the fore-arm, but it gradually thickens at the sides as it approaches the palmar surface. Hairs and sebaceous follicles are most abundant on the ulnar side of the back of the hand and on the first phalanges. On the un- gual phalanx, the skin, as it approaches the nail, becomes tighter and glabrous, extends for about two lines over the root of the nail, and is then reflected back, so as to be continued over its anterior surface to its free border, where it becomes continuous with the skin of the pulp of the fingers. It is in this portion of the skin about the roots of the nails that the false whit- low, called by the French tourniole, takes place. It is an inflammation more of an erysipelatous than a phlegmonous nature, some- times attacking several fingers successively or at once, therein differing from the true whitlow, which is generally confined to one finger. Warts also frequently occupy the skin of the dorsum of the fingers, especially in those that have to perform hard manual labour. 2. The subcutaneous layer is very lax, serous infiltration easily taking place; it contains no pellets of fat like that of the palmar surface. The veins are subcutaneous, large and nu- merous; all the large veins of the hand being on its dorsal surface, the venous circulation is not interrupted by the effort of prehension. On the back of the fingers they form a com- plete net-work, which gives rise to the dorsal collateral veins of the fingers. At the inter- osseous spaces these unite as the arteries di- vide, and then proceed towards a kind of dorsal venous arch, the concavity of which is upwards, and from which arise larger branches; these, in conjunction with one from the little finger called the vena salvatella, and another from the thumb called the cephalic, form the basilic and cephalic veins described in the fore-arm. (See Fore-arm.) Some people prefer being bled on the back of the hand, but, owing to the laxity of the skin and subcutaneous layer, con- siderable extravasation of blood is apt to take place. The subcutaneous nerves, derived from the dorsal branch of the ulnar, and the ter- minal branches of the musculo-spiral accom- pany the veins, as also do the lymphatics. 3. The aponeurosis is continued from that of the back of the fore-arm; it is strengthened across the back of the wrist by strong parallel oblique fibres, forming a band of nearly an inch in breadth; which extends obliquely down- wards over the extensor tendons from the sty- loid process of the radius to the internal lateral ligament of the wrist* It sends down strong processes between the tendons that convert the grooves in the back of the radius and ulna into sheaths, which are as follows:—1st, that noticed on the palmar region for the short extensors of the thumb ; 2d, for the radial extensors; 3d, for the long extensor of the thumb; 4th, for the extensor communis and indicator tendons; 5th, for the extensor minimi digiti; 6th and last, for the extensor carpi ulnaris. The meta- carpal aponeurosis is very thin and split into two layers; the one separates the subcutaneous layer, vessels, and neives from the tendons; the other covers the dorsal interossei, isolating them from the tendons. 4. The nerves are, externally, the jadial, which sends one branch, that, bifurcating, sup- plies the thumb and radial side of the index finger; and another, which in like manner fur- nishes the inside of the index and the middle finger. Internally the posterior branch of the ulnar supplies the two remaining fingers. These branches receive frequent communicating ramuli from the anterior collateral nerves. 5. Tendons and muscles.—The former are less numerous on this region than on the pal- mar; the order in which they cross the wrist was mentioned in describing the aponeurosis. If the divisions of the extensor communis be enumerated, they are twelve in number; four of these are inserted at the base of the meta- carpal bones of the thumb, index, middle, and little fingers; they are the extensor ossis meta- carpi pollicis, extensores carpi radiales, and extensor carpi ulnaris. The other tendons proceed onwards to the phalanges. Those of the common extensor are flattened and riband- like; the three inner ones communicate with each other, while that going to the index is free. Opposite the metacarpo-phalangean arti- culation these tendons narrow and thicken, sending an expansion to either side of the articulation: they again flatten on the first phalanges, where they receive the tendons of the lumbricales and interossei. At the articu- lation of the first and second phalanges they divide into three portions: a middle one, that is inserted into the superior extremity of the second phalanx; and two lateral ones, that run along its sides, reunite at its inferior end, and are implanted into the upper part of the ungual * Generally called the posterior annular liga- ment.