INSECTIVORA. 1005 quill in consequence gradually increases in size, so that it is at last seen to be attached to the surface of the skin by a very narrow neck, below which the remains of the socket and theca are seen in the form of a small bulb." ( Vig. 454, a.) " A completely formed prickle or quill cut longitudinally and magnified, shewing that it is hollow and filled with a pithy sub- stance, which is transversely disposed, so as to divide the cavity into many sections." But the defence of the animal against attack is not the only object of this modification of the hair. I have more than once seen a hedgehog run to the edge of a precipitous descent, and without a moment's hesitation throw itself over, rolling itself up at the same instant, and on reaching the bottom run off perfectly uninjured. It is unnecessary to point out how perfectly this habit is provided for by the elasticity of the spines, dependent upon their structure, as ex- hibited in the figure. The under parts of the body and the limbs are covered with ordinary hair. The Tenrec and other Erinaceada: re- semble the hedgehog in these respects, and in some species the quills and hair are inter- mixed. The mole, on the other hand, possesses hair •of the softest and most flexible description. In its subterranean galleries, which are not large enough to allow it to turn round, it must often be obliged to retreat backwards; and the hair therefore is so constructed as to lie equally smooth in every direction. This has been sup- posed to be effected merely by its growing ex- actly perpendicular to the surface of the body ; but it is in fact still more effectually provided for by a remarkable form of the hair itself. Each hair consists of three or four broader portions connected by intervening portions of extreme tenuity; so that there are several points in the length of each hair which pre- sent no appreciable resistance. The hair of the shrews is similarly constructed, and in each case it is to this structure that the pecu- liar and beautiful softness which characterizes it is owing. It is worthy of remark that the colouring matter of the hair exists only in the broader portions, the intermediate parts being wholly colourless. V. Organs of reproduction. — The repro- ductive organs of the Insectivora offer, in several instances, some remarkable peculiari- ties. The subterranean life of many of these animals renders the meeting of the sexes in their natural haunts a matter of almost for- tuitous occurrence ; and it is therefore neces- sary that the sexual desire should in the male be sufficiently powerful to force him as it were to seek and pursue the other sex through all the difficulties and disadvantages occasioned by their peculiar habits. Hence we find that in most of them the male organs are developed to an extraordinary degree; and in the mole the enlargement of the testes as the season of pairing advances is as remarkable as it is in the sparrow or in any other example of this sea- sonal increase of those organs. Two incom- patible statements have been made respecting s.lie testes in the mole. Cuvier asserts that they make their appearance externally during the season of propagation. Blumenbach de- clares that they belong to the true testiconda, with the hedgehog, &c. The truth is, as de- monstrated with his usual ingenuity by Geof- roy St. Hilaire, that the testicles of the mole never make their appearance externally, al- though during the season of their greatest de- velopement they would do so but for the peculiar construction of the parts in which the organs of generation in this animal are con- tained ; for the abdominal cavity extends be- yond the pelvis, as far as the first four coccy- geal vertebra, which in fact do not, properly speaking, in any degree constitute the tail, which is formed only of the posterior seven vertebra, and the testes during the season are protruded so as to lie concealed under this portion of the caudal division of the spine, which forms as it were a continuation of the upper part of the pelvis. In the hedgehog the testes remain within the abdomen excepting during the spring, and even then they are but little protruded. The object of their being thus generally protected is obvious: in the hedgehog these organs, if external, would be exposed to danger from the act of rolling itself up, and in the mole and its congeners they would interfere with the act of excavating their subterranean passages. The penis in the mole possesses a remarkable peculiarity, which doubtless has reference to the condition of the female organ presently to be described. It consists in a small terminal bony appendage, covered but slightly by integument; it was considered by Daubenton as the os penis, but from its different situation it may be doubtful perhaps if it be in truth analogous to that part. The male organs are in the hedgehog deve- loped to an extraordinary degree, more espe- cially the vesicula seminales. The testes are of an oval form, smooth, and although large in proportion to the size of the animal, are much smaller than the vesiculae seminales ; these are of enormous size, each consisting of four or five fascicles of extremely convoluted tubes, the membranous parietes of which are ex- tremely thin and fragile. Cowper's glands and the prostatic gland are also of considerable size in this animal. The orifices of the vasa defe- rentia, vesicula seminales, prostatic gland, and Cowper's glands all open within the foramen caecum of the urethra. The female organs in the mole offer some peculiarities which deserve more attention than they have hitherto received. In the first place, it appears that in this animal the urinary and genital orifices are Fig. 455. i 2