878 INSECTA. Section of pupa of sphinx ligustri ; 1 to 13, dorsal surface, number of segments; 1 to 12, ventral sur- face, number and position of ganglia ,* a, dorsal ves- sel ; b, its lateral muscles j c d, (Esophagus and sto- mach ; e, ilium • f, hepatic vessels; g, colon ; h, rectum; i, double testis; k, brain. Newport, Phil, Trans. and form the divisions between the legs of the perfect insect,—the bony processes of the sternal surface to which some of the principal muscles are attached. On the upper surface of the same segments they in like manner be- come the pkragmata, or bony partitions of the dorsal surface. The fifth segment becomes al- most entirely atrophied, and the sixth very much shortened. A part of the fifth segment forms a portion of the posterior surface of the thorax of the perfect insect, (fig, 366) while the remainder constitutes the petiole or neck which connects the abdomen with the thorax, the sixth being the first true segment of the ab- dominal region. Exactly the same changes take place in Hymenopterous insects, and in every other species in which we have had opportunities of watching them. We have before alluded to the opinion of Dr. Ratzeburg that the head in Hymenopterous insects is com- posed of two segments of the larva, because just before the change into the nymph or pupa state a portion of the head is found beneath the integuments of the second segment. The fact is indisputable, but the explanation of it appears to be this. The true head of the Hymenopterous larva consists of but one segment, which is provided with the organs of manducation and sensation the same as in the Lepidopterous. But the head in this larva ceases to become larger after a certain period, while the other segments of the body continue to grow, and ultimately acquire a diameter more than double that of the head. Now the parts which are to form the head of the future nymph continue Fig. 366. Section of perfect state, Sphinx ligustri; letters and figures as in section of pupa. Newport, Phil. Trans. also to grow beneath the unyielding cranium, from which, as the change approaches, they become detached, and are gradually developed backwards, and encroach upon the anterior portion of the second segment. This, in ac- cordance with the laws of development, as established by GeofFroy St. Hilaire, that in proportion as one part of an organized body is increased beyond its ordinary size, the part or parts in its immediate vicinity are in a cor- responding degree arrested in their develop- ment, becomes so much reduced, that in the nymph, this second segment, which in the larva is of the same size as the third and suc- ceeding ones, has not half its original extent, and being still further reduced in that state con- stitutes at length the atrophied, and almost ob- literated pro-thorax of the perfect insect. But while the second segment is thus encroached upon by the first it is in like manner encroached ' upon from behind by the third, the immense meso-thorax, which supports the chief organs of flight in the perfect insect. The fourth segment from the same cause is developed backwards, and the fifth, diminished to a very small size, exists only as in the sphinx as the petiole which connects the thorax with the abdomen, thus leaving the nine posterior seg- ments of the larva to the latter region, as stated when alluding more particularly to the number of segments in hymenopterous larvae. The necessity for this additional segment in the abdomen of these larvse is a matter of much interest, and appears to be connected with the development of an apparently additional organ