GENERATION. 4-15 like other laws of the reproductive function, is subject to some modification, and we find ac- cordingly several allied species of the domestic animals breeding freely together ; and there are not wanting, even in the wild state, examples of the mixture of distinct species. The animal produced by the union of the male and female of distinct species receives the name of Hybrid or Mule, which generally partakes of the qualities of both its parents in a greater or less degree. Here again we find another effectual impediment put by nature to the mixture of different species, in this circum- stance, that the mule, whether male or female, is usually unfit for propagation. The offspring of male and female of distinct species is much more frequently fruitful than that of distinct genera.* The instances of the former are not few, as in the wild and tame cat, the wild boar and domestic hog, the pheasant and domestic fowl, the wild and tame duck. But the instances of the latter or mixture of distinct genera are very rare, and most of them require confirmation. We must at the same time always hold in mind that the distinction of species by naturalists is at all times artificial or made by man, how much soever he may con- ceive his classification to be founded in nature, and those animals which are regarded by one naturalist as different species of the same genus are made by others to constitute distinct genera. It is well known that in gardens and else- where, although the pollen of very various plants is almost constantly flying about through the air, it is only among the most nearly allied races or varieties that mixture occurs, and the instances of the mixture of different species of plants are very rare indeed. Many of the mixed varieties so produced cannot be pro- pagated by seeds ; so that there is in the vege- table as well as in the animal kingdom a con- stant tendency to return to the original distinct species. The milt and spawn of different fishes are at * The following examples of the mixture of species are given by Hurdach, but some of them require confirmation. Papilio Jurtina unites with P. Jurtina. Chrysornela JEnea. C. Alni. PhalangiumCornutum P. Opulio. Cyprinus Carpio ,, C. CarassiusorGibelio. FringilU Carnuelis F. Canaria. Phasianus Gallus P. Colchicus. Anas Olor A. Anser. Anas Glaucion A. Querquedula. Tetrao Tetrix „ T. Urogal'us. Corvus Corone ,, C. Cornix. Canis Familiaris C. Lupus. Canis Familiaris C. Vulpes. Equus Caballus „ E. Zebra. Equus Caballus „ E. A sinus. Equus Zebra E. A sinus. Equus Caballus E. Quagga. Capra Hircus C. Ibex. The examples of genera breeding together are much less numerous. Rana Bufo. Tetrao Tetrix ,, Phasianus Colchicus. Capra Hircus Aniilope Rupicapra. Cervus Elaphus 15os Taurus ? Cetvus Elapus Ovis Aries. the same time floating in the same water, but even thus brought into close union with one another, no mixture happens. The ingenious experiments of the celebrated Spallanzani, who attempted to impregnate artificially the ova of one animal with the seminal fluid of another, and the unsuccessful attempts of many to cause different animals to breed toge- ther, afford still farther proofs, were they want- ing, of the number and completeness of the impediments which nature has opposed to the promiscuous breeding of distinct species. The horse and ass are caused, it is known, to unite by man, and do not naturally do so; and in the wild state it is probable that the exceptions to the general rule before-mentioned occur only when the male is deprived of his natural female. It seems scarcely necessary to state that the stories of fruitful union of either male or female of the human species with apes or other animals, considered as au- thentic by some authors, are entirely fabu- lous. In a subsequent part of this article we shall have occasion to revert to the subject of the mixture of races in our remarks upon the transmission of the qualities of the parent to the offspring. 6. Functions of the external organs of re- production.—In addition to sexual feelings, the state of turgescence or erection of the ex- ternal organs by which copulation is effected, is a more or less constant antecedent and concomitant of the first act of the generative process. This condition belongs more pro- perly to the external sexual organs of the male, and especially the penis; but it also frequently exists in some parts of the female organs. The erection of the penis producing the rigidity of that organ necessary to ensure eja- culation or forcible emission of the seminal fluid, consists essentially in the increased quantity of fluid in its bloodvessels, and is with most reason to be attributed chiefly to the peculiar structure and inherent properties of the tissue, so called erectile, of which it is mainly formed. The manner in which the greater accumulation of blood in the erectile tissue is brought about is by no means suf- ficiently clearly explained. Two different opinions prevail as to the cause of this phe- nomenon ; the one, that the flow of blood is retarded in the veins by the contraction and consequent pressure of certain muscles situ- ated towards the root of the penis; the other, that the turgescence of erection is caused by an altered action or condition of the blood- vessels themselves, peculiar to the erectile tissue, in which they are capable of admitting and retaining a greater quantity of blood in the erected than in the collapsed state. We must refer to the various anatomical articles for an account of the structure of the erectile tissue and the organs in which it occurs ; we shall in this place advert to those points only which seem to bear upon the physiological view of their function. The glans penis, corpus spongiosum urethra;, and corpora cavernosa penis, consist in great