INSECTA. 964 branch from the transverse nerves posterior to the third ganglion. A plexus of these trans- verse nerves exists, as in the Sphinx, anterior to each ganglion (o, o), to the nerves of which they give a single filament near their base, and another when arrived near the spiracle, while their main branches, as in the latter insect, are distributed separately among the tracheae and muscles. Those branches of transverse nerves which pass off laterally from between the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh ganglia, become approximated to the nerves from those ganglia, and in the development of the insect at this period afford an example of the commence- ment of the interesting fact of the formation of nervous trunks by the approximation of many fibres. The transverse nerves anterior to the fifth ganglion (5, o) are those that first become united to the moto-sensitive nerves from the gangliated cord, and at this period of the transformation the two are beginning to become united. Seven hours after the insect has become a pupa there is a greater enlargement of the cerebral ganglia, optic nerves, and ganglia and cords of the future thoracic segments. The fourth and fifth have advanced closer together, and the cord between them has become so much shortened, enlarged in diameter, and ap- proximated to its fellow, as to resemble in shape a separate elongated ganglion, and strongly to support the opinion formerly ad- vanced by us* of the actual transmission for- wards of the nervous matter within the in- vesting membranes of the cord, rather than that of its deposition and accumulation at certain parts through the agency of the nutri- tive or vascular system. At this period also all the remaining ganglia have become slightly enlarged, and the distance between the fifth and sixth is much diminished, and the cords just anterior to each ganglion are also slightly en- larged and are disposed with less irregularity than at a previous period. At this stage of the transformation the transverse nerves (o o) also are beginning to assume their temporary gan- glionic appearance, and the terminal nerves from the caudal ganglion are enlarged to sup- ply the developing organs of*generation. At twelve hours (5) the fifth ganglion has almost completely coalesced with the cord and fourth, and has assumed an elongated trian- gular appearance, and the transverse nerves, which at seven hours were beginning to be united to the nerves from this ganglion, have now so completely joined them as almost en- tirely to have disappeared, there being in some instances only a triangular elevation upon the gangliated cord, with a portion of nerve passing outwards to indicate their previous separation, thus affording a further proof of the adhesion of contiguous parts, and of the manner in which nervous trunks are formed. At eighteen hours (6) the whole of the gan- glia, cords, and nerves have become more en- larged, particularly those of the wings, and the transverse nerves, although continuing separate, give filaments to the nerves from the ganglia, and themselves exhibit at their point of di- vision more the appearance of ganglia; while the fourth and fifth ganglia of the cords have now so completely united as to appear like an irregular elongated mass. The abdominal por- tion of the cord is now extended in a more direct line in the body, and anterior to each ganglion is still enlarged. Fig. 422. 7 8 Twenty-four hours, Thirty-six lumrs. At twenty-four hours (Jig 422, 7) the fourth and fifth ganglia are completely united, the fifth being larger than the fourth. The cords before the sixth are enlarged, as also are the transverse nerves of the thorax, which seem to keep pace with or rather to precede the deve- lopment of the respiratory organs. At thirty-six hours (8) the optic nerves have attained a size almost equal to that of the cerebral ganglia, and after this period become very little larger. During the preceding stages of the transformation the minute black patch observed at their base has been gradually more and more expanded, and carried forwards from the posterior superior part of each lobe to its lateral part, which at this period it is begin- ning to cover, while the optic nerves appear as if developing from within outwards, and have a somewhat pear-shaped form. The first sub- cesophageal ganglion,ormedulla,nowforms with the cerebral ones a complete ring around the oesophagus, the crura having almost disap- peared. The fifth ganglion has decreased in size and is now smaller than the fourth, while, in some specimens, the nerves that-arise now come from the cords immediately behind it, thus giving a further proof that the nervous substance of the ganglion has been transmitted forwards. The sixth ganglion, which at twenty-four hours was much reduced in size, has entirely disappeared, but the nerves that belonged to it remain and are now derived from the cord, very near to those which be- longed to the fifth ganglion, thus further proving, as formerly remarked by us,* that the nervous substance has been transmitted for- wards along the cord. This view of the manner in which these changes in the form and * Phil. Trans. 1834.