INSECTA. 866 furnished either with a telescopic, jointed tube, as in the Chrysidida, golden wasps, or with a spiculiferous ovipositor, which is partly retrac- tile within the abdomen, as in the Cynipidte, gall-flies. The former of these insects deposit their eggs either in the cells of other Hymen- optera or in the bodies of active Lepidopterous larvae, before their change to the pupa state, and thus resemble in habits the true Ichneumonidcc. The Cynipida puncture the leaves or bark of trees and plants, and deposit their eggs, at the same time injecting into the wound a fluid which occasions the growth of galls or excre- scences, the interior of which is both food and habitation for the young larva. In their habits, as Mr. Westwood has well observed, the Cyni- pida very closely approach the Terebrantia, and seem to form a link of communication be- tween them and the true lchneumunida. Order VII. STREPSIPTERA. Wings four, the anterior ones (pseudelytra) very minute, twisted, and projecting trans- versely from the sides of the meso-thorax like little scales; posterior pair very large, fan- shaped, with radiating nervures, and plicated when folded. Body linear, abdomen com- pressed, metathorax very large ; meso- and pro- thorax very short; head transverse, broader than the pro-thorax; eyes slightly peduncu- lated ; antennae inserted into an exca- vation in the front, and terminated by two branches; mouth unfitted for taking food; maxillae minute, projecting, stiliform ; labial palpi very large.* Metamorphosis complete. These insects, Stylopida; are parasitic and exceedingly minute ; they undergo their trans- formations in the bodies of perfect wasps and bees, and pass out between the abdominal seg- ment. Latreille has aptly designated them the CEstri of insects. It is entirely unknown where the eggs are deposited, whether in the body of the wasp or bee, or in that of its larva. Four distinct genera of these minute parasites have already been discovered. Stylops Spencii (Jig. 347) is one of the largest species, but is scarcely Fig. 347. Stylops Spencii, highly magnified. Westwuod, Ent. Tram. * Kirby i" Lin. Trans, vol. xi. p. 86. Kirby auii Spence, Introduct. vol. iv. p. 378. more than two lines in length, while the small- est species yet known, Elenchm Templetonii, West.* is not more than two-thirds of a line, or scarcely a line in breadth with its wings ex- panded. The anomalous structure of these insects has been a matter of great difficulty to entomolo- gists. Rossi, who first discovered an insect of this order, placed it with the Ilymenoptera. Mr. Kirby at first thought that it ought to follow the Coleoptera, on account of its elytra and kind of metamorphosis; Mr. Mac Leayf placed it between the Coleoptera and Hymenoptera, to both of which, as Mr. Kirby had remarked, it is connected by its metamorphosis. Dr. Leach placed it between the Coleoptera and Dermaptera, while Mr. Newman, who at first thought it belonged to Hymenoptera, } afterwards placed it with the Diptera,ยง between which two Orders it was also placed by M. Samo- uelle.|| It has, however, been satisfactorily shown by Mr. WestwoodH that it is an imper- fectly mandibulated insect, and that if the structure of its oral apparatus, the shortness of its first thoracic segments, and its kind of me- tamorphosis be considered, it ought to be placed between the Ilymenoptera and Lepi- doptera, at the end of the Mandibuluta, which situation it occupies in Mr. Stephens's arrange- ment.** But the existence of elytra, and the peculiar structure of its wings, ought not to be disregarded, and should any species sufficiently large for minute dissection be hereafter disco- vered, it is not improbable that an examination of its internal organs may lead to a different opinion. Sub-Class II. HAUSTELLATA. Order VIII. LEPIDOPTERA. Wings four, covered with minute scales; mouth proboscidal, formed of two elongated organs, approximated laterally to form a tube ; when at rest spirally convoluted. Labial palpi large, hairy. Metamorphosis complete. The Order is divided into six sections. First the Diurna, day-fliers or butterflies, are distinguished by their long clavated antennae, which in a few are also slightly hooked at the apex. The wings are large and erect when the insect is at rest. The larva or caterpillar has sixteen feet. Pupa quiescent and complete. In the second section, Crepuscularia, (jig. 348,) the sphinges or hawk-moths, the antennae are prismatic, and generally thickest in the mid- dle, the body large, and tapering towards its ex- tremity, which is often bearded, and the wings are elongated and slightly deflexed when at rest. The pupa is smooth, and inclosed in a coccoon, * Westwood, Transact. Ent. Society, vol. i. p. 169. t Horae Entomolog. p. 371. \ Mag. Natur. Histor. No. 23. 6 Ent. Mag. vol. ii. p. 326. |l Entomol. Compendium, 1819, p. 288. t Trans. Ent. Society, vol. i. p. 169 et 172. ** This is also the place assigned to it by Mr. Westwood. " Introduction," &c. vol. ii. p. 287, June 1, 1839.