178 EYE. tains its transparency perfectly ; it also retains its transparency after long-continued immersion in alcohol, or even in boiling water. When detached, it curls up and does not fall flaccid or float loosely in water, as other delicate mem- branes. It also presents a peculiar sparkling- appearance in water, depending upon its greater refractive power; in fact it presents all the characters of cartilage, and is evidently of pre- cisely the same nature as the capsule of the crystalline lens. When the cornea proper is penetrated by ulceration, a small vesicular trans- parent prominence has been repeatedly ob- served in ihe bottom of the ulcer, confining for a time the aqueous humour, but ultimately giving way, and allowing that fluid to escape, and the iris to prolapse; there can be little doubt that it is this membrane which presents this appearance. In syphilitic iritis, this mem- brane becomes partially opaque, appearing d usted or speckled over with small dots altogether different in appearance from any form of opacity observed on the conjunctiva or cornea proper. When it has been touched by the point of the needle in breaking up a cataract, an opacity is produced closely resembling cap- sular cataract. There is no difficulty in pre- paring and demonstrating this membrane in the eye of the sheep, ox, and especially the horse, and it may with a little care be exhibited in the human and other smaller eyes. The eye of a horse having been macerated in water for six or eight days, or until the cornea proper be- comes white, should be grasped in the left hand so as to render the anterior part plump, and then inserting the point of a sharp knife into the structure of the cornea at its junction with the scleiotic, layer after layer should be gra- dually divided by repeated touches round the circumference, until the whole thickness is cut through and the transparent elastic cornea ap- pears, after which the cornea proper may be turned off by pulling it gently with the forceps. The use of the elastic cornea does not appear to me doubtful. The crystalline lens is lodged in a capsule of precisely the same nature, evi- dently destined to preserve correctly the curva- ture of each surface of that body, a condition obviously necessary to secure the perfection of the optical mechanism of the organ. The elastic cornea in the same way, by its firmness, resistance, and elasticity, preserves the requi- site permanent correct curvature of the flaccid cornea proper. The cornea proper is closely and intimately connected to the sclerotic at its circumference. There does not appear to be any mechanical adaptation resembling the fitting of a watch-glass into the bezel, as stated in books; but a ming- ling of texture, as in many other instances in the body. The two structures cannot be separated without anatomical artifice and much vio- lence. If the eye be macerated in water for a month, and then plunged into boiling water, the cornea may be torn from the sclerotic ; but these destructive processes prove little with re- gard to animal organization. The conjunctival covering of the cornea is, as has been already stated,eontinuouswith the rest of the conjunctiva, and the elastic cornea is continued for a short distance beneath the sclerotic, as if slipped in between it and the ciliary ligament. The cornea, thus composed of three different structures, varies in appearance at different periods of life. In the fetus at birth it is slightly cloudy, and even of a pinkish tint, as if it contained some red particles in its blood ; this is, however, more apparent on examination after death than during life ; it is also thicker in its centre. In old age it is harder, tougher, and less transparent than in youth, and fre- quently becomes completely opaque at its cir- cumference, presenting the appearance denomi- nated in the books arcus senilis. How far the alteration in the power of adaptation to distance, which occurs in advanced life, is to be attri- buted to change in curvature of the cornea, is not settled. If the foregoing account be correct, the ap- parently simple transparent body which fills the aperture in the anterior part of the sclerotic, is composed of three distinct varieties of organic structure, liable to changes from disease equally distinct and varied. When the aqueous hu- mour becomes the subject of description, I will endeavour to shew that there is good rea- son for believing that a fourth may be added to these three, the membrane which lines the chamber in which this fluid is lodged, and by which it is secreted. Let it not be supposed that this division of an apparently simple piece of organization into so many distinct parts, is merely an exhibition of minute anatomical re- finement. The distinction is essentially neces- sary to enable the surgeon to account for the appearances produced by disease in this part, and to guide him in the diagnosis and treat- ment. Of the choroid coat.—This membrane has been so called from its supposed resem- blance to the chorion of the gravid uterus; it has also sometimes been called uvea from its resemblance to a grape, a term, howevei, which is now more frequently applied to the iris. It has already been stated that the spherical external case of the eye called the sclerotic embraces another spherically disposed membrane, called the choroid coat, accurately fitted and adhering to it throughout. This spherically disposed membrane has also its cir- cular aperture anteriorly, into which is fitted the screen or diaphragm called the iris. This choroid membrane cannot be considered essen- tial to the perfection of the organ considered merely as a piece of optical mechanism, as a spherical camera obscura, but is obviously an important part of its anatomical organization, and an essential provision for the perfection of its vital functions. It appears to be destined to secure the requisite mechanical connexion be- tween the coarser and more rigid sclerotic case and the parts within, as well as to secure these delicate parts in their situation, and preserve their form, at the same time affording a me- dium for the distribution and support of the vessels and nerves. ,