INSECTA. 888 bovhta, according to the figure by Mr. Curtis,* it is a broad oval plate, much larger than either of the other parts of the labium. This irre- gularity in its size is very perplexing in examin- ing the parts of the mouth, since in those cases in which it is developed to a great extent the ligula is often so much reduced in size as to appear entirely absent, and to render it a matter of consideration whether it would not be better to consider the palpiger in all cases as only the inferior portion of the true ligula, since, in a great number of instances in which the pal- piger is large, the ligula is very small; and, as in the instance of Cychrus, is formed only of minute linear lobes, situated upon and almost hidden by the palpiger. The ligula («) is the most anterior portion of the under lip. It va- ries as much in shape and size as the palpiger. In Hydrous it is divided into two lobes by a slight fissure in its anterior margin, which is membranous, and covered, as well as its in- ternal surface, with short smooth hairs. It is the part which properly represents the true lip, its internal surface being continuous with the soft membrane of the mouth. In most of the Geodephagae it is divided into three linear lobes, not very unlike in their appearance to the true palpi. This division into lobes occurs in most of the predaceous land-beetles. In Ci- cindelida the ligula is very minute, and [his is the case also in some of the Staphylinidee. In the predatory water-beetles, as Mr. Newman has observed, the ligula is of considerable size, and this is particularly the case in Hydrous. The mandibles (fig. 369,/, jig. 370, A), the true organs of manducation, are two exceed- ingly large and strong arched jaws opposed to each other, and sometimes decussating like the blades of a pair of scissors. This is the case in the most rapacious insects, Cicindelida, Staphylinida, <§c- In the Hydrous they do not decussate. They are situated immediately beneath the clypeus and labrum on each side, and are connected by a ginglymoid articulation with the upper and under surface of the head. The superior external condyle moves in the articulating surface of the small bone (jig. 372, q), a little anterior to the bone of the antenna? (?•) and the inferior external condyle (jig. 370, 3) in the articulating surface (jig. 372, y) of the os transversum. In this insect their form is somewhat like that of a sickle or garden knife. They are thick and strong at their base, and hooked at their apex, and are armed with three projecting, notched, or double-pointed teeth. The inter- nal margin of the apex of the mandible is excavated or grooved, as also are the teeth along their posterior surface. The object of this has reference, probably, to the habit of the insect, the structure of the jaws being somewhat similar in this respect to that of the jaws of the more rapacious Dyticus, which is said to prey upon small fishes and water- insects. The under surface of the internal margin of each mandible is covered with soft villi, and there are four condyles to each mandible. Those just described perform the * British Entomology. Fig. 370. C B A A, mandible ; 1, process for 2, extensor tendon ; 3, process to articulate with the inferior surface of the cranium; 4 & 5, flexor tendon; 6, internal margin of jaw; 7, bifid teeth. B, under surface of the maxilla. C, internal or upper surface; 1, cardo; i, stipes; 3 & 4, palpifer; 5, lacinia; 6, galea; 7, lobus inferior ; 8, unguis ; 9, retractor maxilla ; 10 & 11, levator cardo. chief motions; the others are the middle ex- ternal condyle (1), which gives attachment to the tendon of the great extensor muscle, and is situated between the superior and inferior con- dyles ; and the internal condyle {b) is situated on the internal posterior margin of the man- dible, and gives attachment to the flexor muscles of the jaw. The internal margin of the mandible is also rendered concave, and forms part of the lateral boundary of the epi- pharynx. From the general structure of the mandible we at first are lead to suppose that the habits of the insect are entirely carnivorous, but it is said to subsist chiefly upon aquatic plants, although it feeds with avidity on dead larvae and aquatic mollusca.* In the truly carnivorous Coleoptera, the Cicindelida, Cara- bida, and others, the mandibles are acutely pointed; but in those which feed upon vege- table matter, leaves of trees, &c, they are thick and obtusely dentated, as in Melolon- thida:. In the generality of species the man- dibles are always strong dentated organs, but a few exceptions occur in the Cetoniida, which feed on the pollen of flowers, and in the Aphodiadte, which subsist on the recent excre- ment of cattle, in which their margins are soft and flexible. They are always the most con- spicuous parts of the mouth, and differ from * Westwood, Introdact. Entomology, vol. i. p. 127.