879 INSECTA. in the females of this class, a circumstance to which we shall return in our description of the skeleton of the perfect insect. The Pupa.—We have seen that after leaving the larva or feeding condition, the insect as- sumes one of a very different form, which is called the pupa, nymph, uurelia, or chrysalis state. The two latter terms were applied by the older entomologists to this stage of transfor- mation in butterflies and moths. The term aure- lia was used, as expressive of the beautiful gol- den colours or spots with which many species are adorned, as Vanessa urtica, v. atulanta, and others. The term chrysalis had a similar sig- nification. Linnaeus, desirous of employing a term that would be applicable to this stage of transformation in all insects, adopted that of pupa, because in a large majority of the class the insect is as it were swathed (fig. 367) or Fig. 367. Pupa of Deilephila Elpenor. Elephant hawk-moth. bound up, as was formerly the practice of swathing children. This kind of pupa, in which the future limbs are seen on the out- side of the case, is called obtected. The term nymph, which is sometimes employed, is applicable only to those species in which the limbs remain free, but are folded up, as in the pupae of the butterfly and moth, and are not covered with a hard uniform case; as in many Coleopterous and most Hymenopterous insects (fig. 368). When the pupa is in- Fig. 368. J closed in a smooth uniform case, but no signs of the limbs or other parts of the body are visible, as in Diptera, it is called courctate. In these insects the skin of the larva is not cast off at the period of changing, but becomes the covering or coccoon of the included pupa, which is also inclosed in its own proper skin within it. In all insects which undergo a com- plete metamorphosis, this is the period of quies- cence and entire abstinence. Many species remain in this state during the greatest part of their existence, particularly the true pupaa of moths and sphinges, which often continue in it for nearly nine months of the whole year. But in most of those insects which as- sume the particular condition of nymph, in which the body remains soft and delicate, as the hornets, ants, and bees, the pupa state is the shortest period of existence, being often scarcely more than a week or ten days. In every species the length of this period is much affected by the influence of external circum- stances. Thus if the larva of the common net- tle-butterfly, Vanessa urtka, change to a chry- salis in the hottest part of the summer, it will often, as we have found, be developed into the perfect insect in eight or nine days;* whilst if its change into the chrysalis takes place at the beginning of summer, it is fourteen days before the perfect insect appears ; and if it en- ters the chrysalis state at the end of summer, it remains in that condition through the winter until the following spring. On the other hand, as was proved by Reaumur, if the chrysalis be placed in an ice-house, its development into the perfect insect may be retarded for two or three years. Again, if the chrysalis be taken in the midst of winter into a hot-house, it is deve- loped into the perfect insect in from ten to fourteen days. This period of quiescence is absolutely necessary in all those species which undergo an entire change of form and habits, for the completion of those structural metamor- phoses by which the creature is not only adapted to the performance of new functions, but is equally incapacitated for the continuance of some of those which it has previously enjoyed. During this period it is that new parts are deve- loped, and the insect's mode of life is in conse- quence entirely changed. Whilst these altera- tions are taking place in the organic structures, the functions of the organs themselves are in a great measure*suspended, and the condition of the insect becomes that of the hybernating ani- mal. Respiration and circulation are reduced to their minimum,f and the cutaneous expendi- ture of the body is then almost unappreciable even by the most delicate tests.]; Thus a pupa of Sphinx ligustri, which in the month of Au- gust, immediately after its transformation, weighed 71.1 grains, in the month of April fol- lowing weighed 67.4 grains, having thus lost only 3.7 grains in the long period of nearly eight months of entire abstinence. The whole of this expenditure, therefore, had passed off Nymph or pupa state of Vespa crabo. Hornet. Magnified. * Phil. Trans. 1834, part 2, p. 416. t Phil. Trans. 1836, part 2, pp. 555-6. i Idem. 1837, part 2, p. 323.