72* HERMAPHRODITISM. the abnormal conditions and localities of the ovaries and testicles in ihe higher animals, and in their conformity of structure in some of the lower. Thus among Insects, in the genus Li- bellula the long cylindrical testes of the males correspond with the long-shaped ovaries of the females; in the Locusta and Gryllotalpa, there are ramose bunched testicles with analo- gous fasciculated ovaries ; in the Lumellicornia we find compound radiating and united testes, with similar radiating and united ovaries ; and sometimes, as in the genera Melolontfia and Tric/uus,lhe number of the single bodies in the testicles corresponds with the number of the oviducts.* We have already, when considering spurious hermaphroditism in the female, mentioned several facts illustrative of the analogical pe- culiarities in structure between the male penis and female clitoris in some species of animals ; and Burmeister.f who regards the ovipositors and stings of female insects as corresponding to the clitoris in the female Vertebrata, has pointed out a remarkable conformity of struc- tural type between its valves and those of the penis of the male of the same species. Some organs that are, as far as regards their functions, peculiar and essential to one sex only, are nevertheless found to be repeated in the opposite sex in the form of an analogous rudimentary type of structure. Thus, in the male we may observe the unity of sexual struc- ture maintained in the presence of the rudi- ments of the mammary gland, which is func- tionally an organ of the female system only. In the human subject, and in animals whose females have pectoral mamma:, these organs occupy the same position in the male; while in those species of quadrupeds in which they are placed in the inguinal region, we find them in the corresponding males forming the scrotum or bags for containing the testicles. Hence, as we have already seen, the testicles, in cases of mal- formation in these animals, are often laid upon or imbedded in the udder. In the same way in the Marsupiata, the bone which the female has for supporting the marsupium is repeated in the organization of the male, although in the latter we cannot conceive it to serve any possible use.J: In the female also we observe in some points a similar disposition to the rudimentary repe- tition of parts that are essential or peculiar only to the male organization, as in the repeti- tion in the clitoris of some female Rodentia, of the penis-bone of the male, and in the forma- tion of rudimentary forms of those processes of peritoneum which constitute the tunicse vaginales. We are ourselves inclined also to regard the common crescentic form of the hy- men of the human female in the same light,§ * Burmeister's Entomology, § 154. p. 222. t Loc. cit. % Home's Lect. on Comp. Anat. vol. ii. pi. v. § Burdach (Phys. §137,) considers the small cutaneous fold situated at the orifices of the vasa deferentia, and Stiebel the membrane placed at the extremity of the urethra (Meckel's Archiv. fur Physiol. J5d. viii. s. 207.) as the analogue in the male for the female hymen. and to consider it merely as an abortive attempt at that closure of the perinseal fissure which we have already described as effected at an early period in the male embryo—an opinion in which we conceive we are borne out both by the history of the'development and the study of the malformations of the external sexual parts in the female. M. Isidore St. Hilaire read, in 1833, to the French Academy a memoir,* in which, follow- ing up the doctrine of his father with regard to the determination and distinction of the type of parts by the particular vessels distributed to thern, he endeavoured to shew some new points of analogy between the male and female organs, and to develop new views with regard to the origin and particular varieties of herma- phroditic malformations. With Burdach, he divides the whole reproductive apparatus of either sex into three transverse spheres and into six portions or segments in all, or three on each side, viz., 1 and 2, the deep organs, in- cluding the male testicles and female ovaries ; 2 and 3, the middle organs, or male prostate and vesiculae seminales, and female uterus; 3 and 4, the external organs, comprehending the penis and scrotum of the male, and the clitoris and vulva of the female. Each of these portions or segments is, M. St. Hilaire points out, supplied by an arterial trunk peculiar to itself, and the corresponding organs of the male and female by corresponding arterial branches, as the deep organs of both sexes by the two spermatics, the middle by branches of the two hypogastrics, and the external by some other hypogastric branches, and by the external pu- dics. This circumstance, he conceives, renders all the segments in a certain degree independ- ent of the others, both as regards their develop- ment and existence, and allows of the occa- sional evolution of any one or more of them on a type of sexual structure, different from that upon which the others are formed in the same individual. Though assuredly we cannot subscribe to the speculations of the elder St. Hilaire, that the development in the embryo of male testi- cles or female ovaries, and consequently the whole determination of the sex, is originally re- gulated by the mere relative angle at which the first two branches of the spermatic arteries come off", and the kind of course which they follow,! (more particularly as it is admitted by most physiologists that the bloodvessels grow, not from their larger trunks or branches towards their smaller, but from their capillary extremi- ties towards their larger branches,) yet we believe that the doctrine of the comparative independence of the different segments of the * Arch. Gen. de Med. (1833) torn. i. p. 306. t Anat. Phil. torn. i. p. 359. . . " L'ordre de variations des sexes tient a la position d'un artere. . . Le plus on le moins d'ecarlement des deux branches spermatiques motive effective- ment cette preference. Qtieles deux branches de l'artere spermatique descendent parallolement et de compagnie, cette circonstance, je le repete, cette circonstance donne le sexe male ; qu'clles s'ecar- tcnt a leur point de partage, nous avons le sexe fc- mcllc."