INSECTA. 3 R 2 903 Fig. 420. 1 2 3 Full-grown larva. (Newport, Ph. Trans.) there is great excitement throughout the body of the insect. About half-an-hour (Jig. 419, 2) before this occurs the alary nerves and the cerebral, second, third, fourth, and fifth ganglia are slightly enlarged, and the medulla or first sub-oesophageal ganglion very considerably. The cords that extend between them diverge much from each other, while those between the fifth, sixth,and seventh ganglia, are disposed in a more zig-zag direction than in other parts of the body. Immediately after the insect has entered the pupa state (3), all the ganglia are brought closer together in consequence of the cords being disposed more irregularly than at any other period, which has been occasioned by the shortening that has taken place in every seg- ment, by which the cords are rendered too long to lie in a direct line. The cords which con- nect the first five ganglia are slightly increased in size, and the fourth and fifth and their inter- vening cords, in which the first great changes commence, are often nearer together, and have become more united at this period of the trans- formation, in some specimens, than in others at five or six hours later. This is in accord- ance with what we have observed in the Sphinx ligustri, in which the precise period when the union of ganglia takes place cannot positively be ascertained in consequence of its differing in different specimens according to the vigour of the insect, or to the temperature of the season at the time of changing. One hour after (fig. 421, 4) the transform- Fig. 421. 4 5 6 One hour after Twelve hours. Eighteen hours, changing. ation the cerebral ganglia are found to be more closely united, the antennal nerves more dis- tinct, and the optic nerves more enlarged at their base. The fourth and fifth ganglia are approaching each other, and the cords are en- larged at their connexion with the latter, the anterior part of which has become less dis- tinct, and seems about to coalesce with them. The distance between the remaining ganglia is also reduced, and the investing membrane, or exterior surface of the cord exhibits a corrugated appearance as if in the act of becoming shortened. We have seen in the account pre- viously given of the nervous system in the larva of the Sphinx, that besides the longi- tudinal cords and ganglia, and the nerves dis- tributed from them, there are also the trans- verse nerves. There are like nerves in Papilio urtica, and which are distributed to the same parts as in the Sphinx. They commence be- hind the first sub-oesophageal ganglion or me- dulla, where the first of them pass directly out- wards in the course of the tracheae that come from the first spiracle, and distribute and give some branches to the surface of the medulla and its nerves, and some also to the second ganglion (d), while the main branch passes along in the direction of the muscles of the back part of the head. Behind the second ganglion branches of tracheal vessels, and also a nerve from the transverse plexus, are given to the great alary nerve ( / ) that arises in this insect singly from the cord between the second and third ganglion, and not, as in the Sphinx, one portion from the cord and another from the ganglion posterior to it. From the cord be- tween the third and fourth ganglion arises the second alary nerve (i), which like the preceding arises singly from the cord, but receives also a • 1832.