INSECTA. 949 form of cord and distribution of ganglia exists even in many of the more perfect Coleoptera, as in the Carabida (fig. 407) and Hydroplii- Fig. 407. Nervous si/stem of Carabus monilis. lidx. Swammerdam long ago showed this aggregation of nervous matter in the maggot of the cheese-hopper, and Burmeister has since observed even a more concentrated form in the larva of Eristalis tenax, the rat-tailed maggot of cesspools and privies. In the latter instance, as seen also by ourselves, the nervous system consists of a short nodulated cord, which does not extend beyond the three very short thoracic segments, and the greater portion of the body, the nine posterior segments, receives its nerves directly from the cord in the thorax, and not from a ganglion in each segment. This is a circumstance the more remarkable, if, as be- lieved by Straus and others, the existence of the ganglia is regulated entirely by the mobility of the segments or the existence of appendages, because, in these instances, the extremities of those segments in which the cord is placed are undeveloped, or only, as in Eristalis, in the most rudimentary form and almost useless, the sole organs of locomotion being the abdo- minal or false legs, while in the common maggots (fig. 358) both the abdominal and thoracic legs are absent, and locomotion is performed equally by every segment of the body. In addition to this it may be stated that in some of the active larvae of the most perfect Coleoptera, as in the Carabida, there is a lengthened form of cord and a ganglion in almost every segment of the body. Burmeister found the brain and twelve sub-cesophageal ganglia in the larva of Calosoma, and yet the insect possesses only six thoracic legs, the abdominal ones being entirely absent, excepting only the caudal leg or extremity of the abdo- men, in which segment there is no ganglion. These facts will prove that although a concen- trated form of the nervous system usually exists with a more perfect development of other parts of the body, it exists also when the develop- ment of other parts is imperfect. It is not, then, the immobility of the segments that regu- lates the disappearance of the ganglia, since, as Burmeister has justly remarked, there is as little motion of the segments of the abdomen in the perfect Carabida and hucanida, in which cords and ganglia exist, as in the Melolontludce, in which they are absent. Neither is it neces- sary that ganglia should be present as a means of supplying energy in segments upon which, as m Eristalis, the entire locomotive power of the insect depends, or that when ganglia are present they are necessarily connected with the function of motion. The most concentrated form of the nervous system in all its states exists in the Lamelli- cornes, the Scarabceidte, and MelolonthidiE; but it is remarkable that even in these the development of the brain or supra-cesophageal ganglia is less perfect in the larva state than any of the other ganglia, and is not more advanced than in the Lepidoptera, in which, in the caterpillars of the nettle butterfly, Vanessa urticte, so late as the middle of the last period of the larva state we have found these ganglia very distinct from each other, being only approximated in the middle line by their convex surfaces. Towards the latter period of the larva state they become rapidly more and more united, and at the time of change have formed one continued mass, placed transversely across the oesophagus. A similar condition of the brain exists in the soft-bodied larva; of the