ENTOZOA. 114 This singular Entozoon I discovered in a portion of the muscles of a male subject, which ■was transmitted to me for examination, at the beginning of 1835, by Mr. Wormald, Demon- strator of Anatomy at St. Bartholomew's Hos- pital, on account of a peculiar speckled ap- pearance of those parts. This state of the muscles had been noticed by that gentleman as an occasional but rare occurrence in subjects dissected at St. Bartholomew's in several pre- vious years. The portion of muscle was beset with minute whitish specks, as represented in the subjoined cut (fig- 53): and in fourteen subsequent instances which have Fig. 53. come to my knowledge of the presence of this entozoon in the human subject, the muscles have presented very similar appearances. The specks are produ- ced by the cysts con- taining the worm, and vary, as to their dis- tinctness, according to their degreesof opacity, whiteness, and hard- ness. The cysts are very readily detected by gently compressing a thin slice of the infect- ed muscle between two pieces of glass and ap- plying a magnifying power of an inch focus. They are of an elliptical figure, with the extremi- ties more or less attenuated, often unequally elongated, and always more opaque than the body or intermediate part of the cyst, which is, in general, sufficiently transparent to shew that it contains a minute coiled-up worm. The cysts are always arranged with their long axis parallel to the course of the mus- cular fibres, which probably results from their yielding to the pressure of the contained worm, and becoming elongated at the two points where the separation of the muscular fasciculi most readily takes place, and offers least re- sistance ; and for the same reason one or both of the extremities of the cyst become from repeated pressure and irritation thicker and more opaque than the rest. That the adhesive process in the cellular tissue, to which I refer the for- mation of the cyst, was most active at the extremities of the cyst is also evinced by the closer adhesion which these parts have to the surrounding cellular tissue. The cysts measure generally about j'jth of an inch in their longitudinal, and -^th of an inch in their transverse diameters: like other cysts which are the result of the adhesive inflamma- tion, they have a rough exterior, and are of a laminated texture. Cysts of the Trichina Spiralis in situ, natural size. A separateCh/st of the Trichi- na, which is seen coiled up through the transparent coats, magni- fied. Fig. 55. The innermost layer (fig. 54), however, can sometimes be detached entire, like a distinct cyst, from the outer portion, and its contour is generally well marked when seen by trans- mitted light. By cutting off the extremity of the cyst, which may be done with a cataract needle or fine knife, and gently pressing on the opposite extremity, the Trichina and the granular secre- tion with which it is surrounded, will escape ; and it frequently starts out as soon as the cyst is opened. But this delicate operation requires some practice and familiarity with microsco- pical dissection, and many attempts may fail before the dissector succeeds in liberating the worm entire and uninjured. When first extracted, the Trichina is usually disposed in two or two and a half spiral coils : when straightened out (which is to be done with a pair of hooked needles, when the sur- rounding moisture is so far evaporated as that the adhesion of the middle of the worm to the glass it rests upon shall afford a due resistance to a pressure of the needle upon the extremi- ties), it measures ^th of an inch in length and .^gth of an inch in diameter, and now requires for its satisfactory examination a magnifying power of at least 200 linear admeasurement. The worm (fig. 55) is cylindrical and fili- form, terminating obtusely at both extremities, which are of unequal sizes; taper - ing towards one end for about one-fourth part of its length, but continuing of uniform diameter from that point to the opposite ex- tremity. Until lately it was only at the larger extremity that I have been able to distin- guish an indication of an orifice, and this is situated in many specimens in the centre of a transverse, bilabiate, linear mouth, (a, fig. 54.) A recently extracted living worm, when ex- amined by a good achromatic instrument be- fore any evaporation of the surrounding fluid has affected the integument, presents a smooth transparent exterior skin, inclosing apparently a fine granular parenchyma. It is curious to watch the variety of deceptive appearances of a more complex organization which result from the wrinkling of the delicate integument. I have sometimes perceived what seemed to be a sacculated or spiral intestine; and, as eva- poration proceeds, this has apparently been surrounded by minute tortuous tubes; but the fallacy of the latter appearance is easily de- tected. A structure, which I have found in more recent and better preserved specimens than those which were the subjects of my first description, is evidently real, and may pro- bably belong to the generative system of the Trichina ; it consists of a small rounded cluster of granules of a darker or more opaque nature than the rest of the body; it is situated about one-fifth of the length of the animal from the larger or anterior extremity, and extends about half-way across the body. Trichina spiral) magnified.