HEART. 617 adds tho sudden separation of the semilunar valves when the blood is forced into the large arteries; by Mr. Carlisle to the rushing of the blood along the inner surface of the large arteries during the systole of the ventricles.* Dr. Hope, in the appendix to the second edition of his work, describes it as consisting, 1st, possibly of a degree of valvular sound; 2d, of a loud smart sound produced by the abstract act of a sudden jerking extension of the muscular walls, in the same manner that such a sound is produced by similar extension of the leather of a pair of bellows; to avoid circumlocution, he calls it the sound of exten- sion ; 3d, a prolongation and possibly an aug- mentation of this sound by the sonorous vibra- tions peculiar to muscular fibre." Dr. C.J. B. Williams has very justly objected to the correct- ness of the second cause here adduced as aiding in the production of the first sound, as the phrase " sound of extension" is obviously contradictory when applied to a contracting muscle.f Dr. C. J. B. Williams maintains " that the first sound is produced by the mus- cular contraction itself," the clearness of which is increased by the quantity of blood in the heart " affording an object around which the fibres effectually tighten, whilst the auricular valve, by preventing the reflux of the blood, increases its resistance, and thus adds to the tension necessary for its expulsion." He was first led to the adoption of this opinion by the observations of Enman and Wollaston upon the existence of a sound accompanying every rapid muscular contraction. This opinion he afterwards put to the test of experiment, the results of which we give in his own words. " Experiment 1st, observation 8th; I pushed my finger through the mitral orifice into the left ventricle and pressed on the right so as to prevent the influx of blood into either ventricle ; the ventricles continued to contract strongly (especially when irritated by the nail of the finger on the left), and the first sound was still distinct, but not so clear as when the ventricles contracted on their blood. Observation 9th. The same phenomena were observed when both the arteries were severed from the heart." He also found in other observations that the first sound was louder over the surface of the ven- tricles than over the origin of the large arteries, which is in direct opposition to the opinion of those who believe that this is produced by the rush of blood along the great arteries. That the first sound is not dependent upon the closing of the auriculo-ventricular valves, he also ascertained from observations, in which the closure of these valves was partially or com- pletely prevented, and yet the first sound was still heard. Besides, this sound continues during the whole of the ventricular systole, while the shutting of the valves must take place and be completed at the commencement of the systole." That the collision of the particles of As Mr. Carlisle is a member of the Dublin Heart Committee, we must now consider him as concurring with the report of that Committee, t Medical Gazette, Sept. 1835. fluid in the ventricles does not produce this sound he was convinced from observations, in which it continued although there was no blood in the ventricles. Though we must admit that these experi- ments of Dr Williams prove that part at least of the first sound is caused by the muscular contraction of the ventricles, yet we must con- sider it still problematical, until we obtain further observations, whether it produces the whole of that sound, for it is very possible that some of the other circumstances attending the systole of the heart may increase its intensity. M. Marc d'Espine has maintained that both sounds depend on muscular movements; the first sound upon the systole, and the second upon the diastole of the ventricles. The Dub- lin Committee have in the meantime concluded that the first sound is produced either by the rapid passage of the blood over the irregular internal surface of the ventricles on its way towards the mouths of the arteries, or by the bruit musculaire of the ventricles, or probably by both these causes. We must wait for further experiments before this question can be fairly settled .* Second sound.—Later experimenters appear to be more nearly agreed about the cause of the second sound than that of the first sound. M. Rouanet appears to have been the first who publicly maintained the opinion that the second sound was dependent upon the shock ot blood against the semilunar valves at the origin of the aorta and pulmonary artery. M. Rouanet himself acknowledges that he owed the sug- gestion to Dr. Carswell, at that time studying in Paris, who came to that conclusion by a beautiful process of reasoning upon the pheno- mena which presented themselves in a case of aneurism of the aorta. The same opinion has been supported by Billing, Bryan, Carlisle, and Bouillaud.f It is, however, to Dr. C. J. B. * The London Committee, in their report given in at the meeting of the British Scientific Associa- tion for 1836, have adduced some additional expe- riments in favour of the opinion that the first sound of the heart depends upon muscular con- traction. It appeared to them that the sound pro- duced by the contraclion of the abdominal muscles as heard through a flexible tube resembles the systolic sound. They, however, admit that though " the impulse is not the principal cause of the first sound, it is an auxiliary and occasional cause, nearly null in quietude and in the supine posture, but increasing very considerably the sound of the systole in opposite circumstances." From the great care with which these experiments appear to have been performed, we believe that we are now fullv justified in adopting this explanation of the cause of the first sound. The Dublin Committee, in their report given in at the same time, also detail some experiments which they believe to be confirmatory of their former conclusions. See Sixth Report of British Scientific Association. t In justice to Dr. Elliott, of Carlisle, I must state that I find, on consulting his Thesis De Cordc Humano, published in Edinburgh in 1831, that he states (p. 53) that he believes that the second sound of the heart is dependent upon the rush of blood from the auricles into the ventricles during their diastole, and also upon the sudden flapping inward of the sigmoid valves at the origin of the large arteries by the refluent blood.