GLAND. 488 furnishing about four pints of urine daily, receive, in proportion to their bulk, more blood than the pancreas, where the secerning process is less active. That this is the principle which regulates the supply of blood is also evidenced in the vessels of the mammas, which receive a more ample supply of blood during lactation than at other periods. The sanguiferous vessels, like the secreting canals, present many varieties in their dis- position in the several glands, the varieties of form in each class being, however, definite in their character, and doubtless having a re- ference to the different kinds of fluids which are required to be separated from the circu- lating blood. Those organs which are pro- vided with a distinct envelope, as the testicle, the kidney, and liver, usually possess but one artery, which enters at the same fissure as the excretory canal; other glands, presenting a more distinctly lobulated texture and having no proper capsule, the tonsil, pancreas, and mam- ma for instance, receive an indefinite number of arteries, which enter irregularly on all parts of the surface; lastly, in the most simple form, as the mucous crypts, the secreting vessels con- stitute a delicate plexus on the surface of the little bag. In all those instances where the gland is large enough to receive one or more arterial trunks, it is found that the vessel having entered begins to divide into smaller branches, which penetrate between the masses of the gland, and these becoming smaller and smaller at length furnish an intricate plexus, the branches of which, as in the case of the simple bag or follicle, ramify on the surface of the blind secreting canals. It is only necessary to observe with respect to the veins, that when compared with their arteries, they are smaller than elsewhere ; and also that in common with the veins of the splanchnic cavities, they are devoid of valves, so that in the kidney, liver, &c. they may be beautifully displayed by the aid of a suc- cessful injection, even to their ultimate rami- fications. Arrangement of the minute bloodvessels.— In considering the intimate texture of the glands, it is essential to state the manner in which the last divisions of the sanguiferous vessels are disposed. By the aid of minute injection these vessels may be demonstrated, though with difficulty, as far as their termina- tion ; and they may also be observed in a few instances during life and whilst carrying on the circulation. An opinion to which we shall subsequently recur has been entertained by many anatomists, that the little arteries are either directly con- tinuous with the excretory ducts, or, as we should rather call them, the secreting canals, or, at all events, that some kind of direct commu- nication exists between the terminal arteries and the secreting canals. The most cautious and apparently successful researches, however, do not corroborate this opinion, but, on the contrary, show that no direct communication of any kind exists. In the lungs, which organs are formed and developed in exact accordance with the glandular structure, the ultimate divi- sions of the pulmonary artery, after freely ramifying over the surface of the air-cells, are known to terminate by direct continuity in the radicles of the pulmonary veins. Now, that which is demonstrated in the lungs equally applies in the case of the glands. In the simple lacunas of the mucous membrane the arteries are disposed over the surface of the pouch, but they end in the returning veins without opening on the secreting surface. Miiller states that on examining with a suffi- cient power the larva of the triton palustris, he observed streams of blood, traversed by single globules, running between the elongated secreting canals of the liver, and, further, that the last arteries pass immediately by a reticu- late anastomosis into the small hepatic veins. This disposition is seen in the adjoining figure, which represents the circuit of the blood in the larva of the triton fifteen lines in length. Fig. 221. a, vena cava ; b, vena portarum ; c, minute cur- reuts of blood in the gall-bladder. ^