578 HEART. theloss communicate freely with each other. It would appear, however, from Meckel's descrip- tion, that the ventricle is divided by a complete septum into two separate and distinct chambers in the Crocodilus Lucius. In the Mammalia and Birds, where no intermixture of the venous and arterialized blood takes place, but where all the blood sent along the aorta has been pre- viously subjected freely to the influence of the atmospheric air, we find two distinct hearts, which in the adult have no communication with each other; one the respiratory heart for the transmission of the blood through the lungs, the other the systemic heart for the transmission of the arterialized blood through all the textures of the body. These are not placed separate from each other, as in some of the Mollusca, which with a double circulation have an aquatic respiration, but are in juxta-position, and in fact many of the muscular fibres are common to both. Human Heart (normal anatomy). Position.—The heart in the human species is lodged within the cavity of the thorax, occu- pies the middle mediastinum, and is enclosed in a fibro-serous capsule called pericardium. It is placed obliquely from above downwards and from behind forwards, in front of the spine and behind the sternum. The apex is directed downwards, forwards, and to the left side, pro- jects into the notch on the anterior margin of the left lung, and in the quiescent state of the organ corresponds to the posterior surface of the cartilage of the sixth rib. The base looks upwards, backwards, and to the right side; is separated from the anterior part of the spine by the pericardium, oesophagus, aorta, and other parts which lie in the posterior mediastinum; and extends from about the fourth to the eighth dorsal vertebra. Its right margin rests upon the upper surface of the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm, by which it is separated from the stomach and liver; its left margin, which is more vertical, looks upwards and to the left side, and occupies an excavation on the inner surface of the left lung. Its posterior or flat surface rests partly upon the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm, having the pericardium inter- posed between them, and partly upon the inner concave surface of the left lung.* Its position corresponds to the union of the superior third of the body with the two inferior thirds. The lungs overlap the lateral, and part (rarely the whole) of the anterior portion of the heart, leaving only in general about an inch and a half or two square inches of the anterior surface of the right ventricle uncovered by the lung. It is of importance to remember this fact in percussing this region. The two sacs of the pleura, as they pass between the spine and sternum to form the mediastina, are interposed between the lungs and the heart. The heart is subject to slight change of position from the influence of the contiguous organs. It is carried a little downwards during violent contraction of the * In the lower animals its position is vertical, occupying the mesial line of the body. diaphragm, and is pressed upwards when the abdominal viscera are strongly compressed by the powerful contraction of the abdominal muscles. During expiration it has been seen to recede deeper into the thorax, and during inspiration again to come forward. When the body is bent to the right side, the apex recedes from the inner side of the left wall of the thorax ; when bent to the left side, it is still more closely approximated to it. Form and external surface.—Its form is that of a flattened cone, and it is neither symme- trical as regards the mesial line of the body, nor (as we shall afterwards find) is the organ itself symmetrical. It presents an anterior and a posterior surface; a right inferior or acute margin; a left superior or obtuse margin ; a base, and an apex. Its anterior surface, which is also turned towards the left side, is convex and considerably longer than the posterior and right, which is flattened. On the anterior sur- face of the heart we find a distinct groove, running nearly in the axis of the.organ, passing from above downwards and from right to left, and containing the left coronary artery. A larger portion of the heart appears to lie to the right than to the left of this groove. There is a similar groove on the posterior surface, which is nearly vertical, shorter than the anterior, and contains a branch of the right coronary artery. These two grooves are connected with each other at or near the apex generally by a small notch, which is sometimes of sufficient depth to give the heart a bifid appearance.* These grooves mark the division of the heart into right and left sides. These terms are, how- ever, more applicable when describing the organ in the lower animals; for in the human species the right side is also anterior and infe- rior, and the left side posterior and superior. Near the base of the heart and at the com- mencement of the longitudinal grooves, we find a circular groove deeper anteriorly than poste- riorly, which contains in its posterior part the coronary vein and branches of the coronary arteries. This circular groove points out the division between the auricular and ventricular portions of the heart. Two large arteries are placed in front of the anterior part of this groove, the one posterior to the other. That nearest to the groove is the aorta, which springs from the base of the left ventricle; the one placed anterior is the pulmonary artery, which arises from the upper part of the right ventricle, and at its origin covers, along with that part of the ventricle to which it is attached, the com- mencement of the aorta. The ventricles form the principal part of the heart, and occupy the middle and apex, while the auricles are placed at the base. The base of the ventricles is con- nected to the base of the auricles. Two large veins, the superior and inferior vense cavae, * This notch in the human heart looks like the rudiments of the fissure which in the Dugong and Rytina separates the two ventricles from each other nearly up to the base. This bifid form of the heart, which is merely a temporary condition in the hu- man species, is permanent in the Dugong and Ry- tina. See Jig. 264, vol. i. p. 576.