FOETUS. 324 of the pelvis: in one case where the labour required version of the child, the arm got be- tween the side of the head and the pubes and produced so much difficulty in the delivery, that the left parietal bone was completely depressed. Siebold has reported a case in his journal, in which the labour was painful and tedious, and the child was born dead : a large bloody tumour was found over the right parietal bone; and on exposing the bone, it was tra- versed by three distinct fissures passing in different directions : no instruments had been used.* But I have reason to know that these injuries of the cranial bones may occur, not only independently of contracted pelvis, but even of slow or difficult labour. I some time since attended a lady in her second labour, and after about three hours from its commencement, she gave birth to a healthy boy, but with a depression in the left temporal bone which would readily have contained an almond in its shell; by degrees the depression disappeared, and at the end of a few months no trace of it remained ; the lady's first labour was easy, as were also those that succeeded the birth of this child, and no such injury was observable in any other of the children. More recently I was informed by Mr. Mulock, of a case in which, on the subsidence of a cranial tumour, a spicula of bone was felt distinctly projecting under the integuments; the labour had been slow but natural. When these injuries of the foetal head were first observed, they were attri- buted to violence by Haller, Rosa, and others, the error of which opinion was first perceived by Roederer and Baudelocque, and it is need- less to say how important is the distinction, especially in a medico-legal point of view. Fractures of the long bones have been ob- served sometimes as the result of injuries sustained by the mother, but in other instances independent of any such cause, and apparently depending on some defect in their composition. I saw an instance in which a woman, when eight months pregnant, was precipitated from the second story of a house into the street, by which the hip-joint was dislocated, and she was otherwise much injured; she fell on her face, yet the uterus was not ruptured; labour came on that night, and the child was born dead with several of its bones broken : the woman recovered well. A case is quoted by Duges on the authority of Carus, in which a woman fell on her belly and caused a fracture in the leg of the child, which was born with the fracture complicated with wounds in the soft parts; gangrene supervened and detached entirely the fractured limb.f Marcf relates a case, in which all the bones of the limbs and several others were found fractured, the mother not having met with any accident, and having had an easy and quick labour; the child was born alive and lived for some days : on examination after death the number of fractures were found * See Med. Chir. Review, No. 37, Julv 1833, p. 211. t Diet, de Med. et de Chirurgie Prat. torn. viii. p. 293. J Diet, des Sc. Med. torn. xvi. p. 63. to amount to forty-three, some of them just beginning to unite, and others almost com- pletely consolidated. In a case which occurred to Chaussier, in which also the labour was quick and easy, and the mother had not sustained any previous acci- dent, the child was born alive and survived twenty-four hours; its limbs were malformed, and after death no less than one hundred and thirteen fractures were discovered in different conditions, some of them being already quite consolidated, while others were apparently quite recent.* Fractures independent of any external injury or defect of nutrition are supposed by some to be produced by violent spasmodic contractions of the fetal muscles, which are capable of very energetic efforts, at a time when the foetal bones have very little power of resistance. It appears reasonable to believe, that such spasmodic action of the muscles might be induced by causes violently disturbing the nervous system of the mother, since we know that such in- fluences acting on a nurse will cause spasmodic and convulsive affections in the child at her breast; and we further know, that even in the adult a quick muscular effort has been followed by fracture of a bone, but how far such analo- gies are applicable to explain the lesion in question I would not pretend to determine. A similar explanation has been supposed applicable to the instances of dislocations which have been discovered in the foetus, and one in particular related by Chaussier appears to correspond to such a supposition. A young, delicate, and nervous lady, in the ninth month of pregnancy, suddenly felt such violent and rapid movements of the child that she was near fainting; these tumultuous motions were three times repeated in the course of ten minutes, and then there succeeded a perfect calm; the remainder of the pregnancy passed on well, the labour was easy, the child was pale and weak, and had a complete dislocation of the left fore-arm.f In another instance mentioned by Marc J there were found, in addition to congenital dislocation of both hip-joints, no less than seven other luxations. But by far the most remarkable pathological lesion to which the foetus in utero is subject, is that in which portions of its limbs are removed by a process which has been with propriety denominated spontaneous amputation. This singular fact has been mentioned by several authors of credit, as Richerand,§ Desor- meaux,|| Billard,H and Murat,** though none of them appear to have witnessed any case of the kind themselves; but they all agree in * For a full account of the dissection, see Bullet, de la Fac. de la Soc. de Med. de Paris, 1813, No. 3. . , T . no,« t Discours prononce a la Matemite, Juin 1812. X Diet, des Sci. Med. t. xvi. p. 66. See also une Memoire sur un deplacement originel ou con- genital de la tete des femurs, par M. le Baron Du- puytren; Repertoire d'Anatomie, t. ii. partie 1. I Elemens de Phvsiologie, p. 477. if Diet, de Me.d. t. xv. p. 404. II Maladies des Enfans, p. 623. ** Diet, des Sci. Med. t. xvi. p. 70.