634 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HEART. veins of the left side entering behind the ap- pendage. The right and left ventricles were distinct, with the coronary vessels running upon them; and the aorta and pulmonary artery were seen clearly emerging from them." There is nothing in Dr. Baillie's description to indicate positively whether the visceral layer of the serous pericardium was absent or not, although we may infer its absence; what he says bearing upon this subject is as follows : " The heart was involved in the reflection of the pleura, belonging to the left side of the chest, which became its immediate covering, and upon making the slightest incision into the substance of the heart, its muscular structure was laid bare, as in any common heart de- prived of its pericardium." Breschet* has put on record a case in which the pericardium was absent, not altogether, but in greatest part. The subject of it was a young man of twenty-eight years of age, who died in the Hotel Dieu of an inflammatory affection of the intestines. The heart lay free under the left lung without any external fibro- serous envelope. The mediastinum was formed only by a simple serous lamina belong- ing to the right pleura, and upon the left of this lay a rudimentary fibrous capsule, attached above to the origin of the great vessels. The serous membrane was altogether absent, but the heart was immediately inverted by a serous lamella, which was prolonged from the left pleura. In both this case and that of Baillie, the left phrenic nerve was displaced and brought towards the mesial line of the body, and not covered by the serous membrane,—an anato- mical character, which, as Breschet suggests, may serve to distinguish congenital absence of the pericardium from the simple adhesion of that membrane to the heart.f II. Malformatiom of the heart by excess of developenient.— Plurality of the heart itself may be obviously regarded as coming under this head; but I am not aware of any instance in which a double heart has been found in a perfect single foetus, nor can the possibility of such an occurrence be deemed admissible. It is in monsters formed by the junction of two that this double form of the heart has been met with. Thus, in one case referred to in Bouil- laud's work, all the upper parts of the foetus were double, while the inferior were simple. There were two heads, two necks, quite separate and of the ordinary size. The necks terminated in a single very wide thorax, to the upper part pf which and between the insertion of the two necks an arm was attached in the vertical direction, one perfectly formed arm being placed on each side of the thorax. There were four lungs, each having a distinct pleura, but only one diaphragm: there were also two hearts and two pericardia, each of which had two vena cavae and a pulmonary artery, four pulmonary veins and an aorta. The two aortse * Mem. sur uu vice de conformation congenitale des enveloppes du cceur : Rep. Gen. d'Anat. t. i. p. 212. f See references to other cases in Otto's Path. Anat. by South, p. 254. united at the lower part of the dorsal region of the spine, and formed the artery by which the abdominal viscera and lower extremities were supplied. The evidence respecting the occurrence of an increase in the number of the parts of the heart is very unsatisfactory. The often quoted case of Kerkring,* with a double right ven- tricle ; one by Vetter,f with four auricles and four ventricles, quoted by Otto ; a third byChe- mineau,J with three ventricles, are, if genuine, the most remarkable instances on record, be- sides various instances in the lower animals, especially birds. Andral states that he has seen a heart with three auricles, and another with four ventricles : it is much to be regretted that he has given no description of these sin- gular malformations § Supernumerary cavities, or septa dividing the primitive cavities of the heart, are the most common instances of excessive developement. Adopting the arrangement of Andral,|| we find—1, a supernumerary cavity forming a sort of accidental appendage to one of the auricles or ventricles, and communicating with the cavity of the part to which it is attached : 2, a supernumerary septum, forming an im- perfect division of one of the natural cavities ; 3, a second cavity, completely partitioned off by one of these septa, and giving off super- numerary vessels, which communicate with the regular vessels of the heart. It appears to me, however, to be very questionable that all cases of supernumerary cavities are the result of ex- cessive development, but that, on the contrary, they are sometimes mechanically consequent upon defective formation in other parts. At least it is in this way that I account for the con- dition of the heart of a boy, aged ten years, which I examined several years ago, and which has been described by my respected friend, Dr. John Crampton, in the Transactions of the Dublin College of Physicians for 1830. In this heart there were three instances of defective developement—absence of the valves of the pulmonary artery, an open foramen, and an imperfect septum ventriculorum. Attached to the right ventricle there was a supernumerary cavity with which the pulmonary artery com- municated. This cavity communicated also with the right ventricle, by an opening large enough to admit the little finger, and formed under the columnse carnese of the ventricle. The pulmonary artery was not only destitute of valves, but at the usual situation of the valves its lining membrane was puckered, by which its orifice was manifestly contracted. The su- pernumerary cavity, in this instance, was in all probability occasioned by a partial dilatation of the infundibular portion of the right ventri- cle, in consequence of the obstruction at the pulmonary orifice. Increase in the number of the valves of the large arteries may be counted among the ab- * Spicil Anat. ohs. 69, p. 139. f Aphorism, aus der Pathol. Anat. f Hist, de l'Acad. des Sc. an. 1699. $ Path. Anat. by Townsend, vol. ii. p. 333. j| Loc. cit.j