ORGANS OF GENERATION. 419 Fig. 204. Structure of the Testes in Clupea Alosa. this arrangement we have, therefore, the simplest form of the isolated ovaria of Reptiles, Birds, ond Mammalia, in alt of which the ova escape Jrom the surface of the ovary, not from its interior; and in the orifice through which the eggs are ultimately expelled from the abdomen we see the first rudiment of a Fallopian tube. In the Lamprey this orifice is prolonged into a short canal, and in Rays and Sharks assumes the form of an oviduct with which we shall afterwards see the Fallopian tubes of Mammals are identical; for whatever the complication which it afterwards assumes, the oviduct or Fallopian tube (for the two are the same in function) only receives the ova after their escape into the cavity of the abdomen to facilitate their ultimate expulsion. In Rays and Sharks the oviduct is double, commencing, however, by a fimbriated aperture common to both, which receives the eggs from the ovaria; each oviduct is at first narrow and membranous, having its lining membrane longitudinally plicated, but before its termination the walls suddenly increase in thickness, developing in their interior a large gland destined to furnish the horny covering which invests the eggs of these creatures. Beyond the gland the oviduct expands into a capacious bag, which communi- cates with the cloaca. In this class of fishes the testis, like the ovary, is not hollow. In the Eel and Lamprey the secretion of the testis escapes from the external surface of the organ into the abdomi- nal cavity, whence, like the eggs in the females of the same tribes, it is expelled through a simple orifice provided for its egress. In these creatures the testis and ovarium are so entirely similar that they have been confounded by authors, the secreting granules in the one sex and the ova in the other being both disposed in regular laminae, and only differing inas- much as the testicular granules are smaller than the mature ova. The structure of the testis in Rays and Sharks is peculiar, these animals being appa- rently provided with both the kinds of testis above described. Each testicle consists of two portions quite detached from each other; the one is formed of an aggregation of globular masses as large as peas, from which no excre- tory duct has been found to issue; the other is made up of convoluted canals, which, gradually uniting together, terminate in a capacious tube. The tuberculated mass has been described as the testis, while the convoluted tubes of the other portion were regarded as an epididymus, whence the vas deferens took its origin. There is, however, no communication between the granular part and that whence the vas deferens issues; it is, therefore, probable that the former is analogous to the solid testis of the Eel and Lamprey, pouring its secretion into the abdo- minal cavity, whence it is emitted through the apertures well known to communicate in these creatures between the peritoneal bag and the exterior, while the latter is identical with the usual form of the testis in osseous fishes. TheBatrachian Reptiles in their mode of gene- ration, as well in so many other points of their economy, form the transition from the branchi- ferous to the pulmonary forms of theVertebrata, and hence the study of their sexual organs is ex- ceedingly interesting. The ovaria of these ani- mals in their entire organization resemble those of the Lamprey. Their size, however, is much in- ferior, and t'*e whole or^an exhibits a more con- centrated arrangement. The vascular membrane which forms each ovary is arranged in large folds on the sides of the spine, and the ova are deposited in great numbers between the lamellae of which it consists. The oviducts are long and tortuous, each commencing by a fimbriated aperture which is found to be situated at the side of the pericardium, and so bound down in that position by its peritoneal attach- ment-; thatwhen the interval which separates this point from the ovaria is considered, it is difficult to conceive how the ova, when dislodged from the nidus in which they were formed, can be brought into the oviduct; the only supposition, in fact, which will account for it is, that the eggs break loose into the abdominal cavity and thus make their way to the extremities of the oviducts. Before terminating in the cloaca the oviducts expand into capacious recepta- cles, in which the ova are collected prior to their expulsion, and glued together by a glairy secretion into masses which distend the whole of the abdomen. The ovaria of the Salamanders resemble those of the frog, as do the oviducts, but the membranous sacs which retain the ova are less considerable than in the Anourous Batrachia : the same observations apply to the perenni- branchiate orders. The structure of the testis in frogs is almost the same as that of the same organ in the cuttle-fish. If the investing tunic be removed, the whole substance of the organ appears com- posed of globules; but if these are gently sepa-