701 HERMAPHRODITISM. was attached to the ovary by a kind of ligament. On this same side of the body (the right) there existed also a vesicula sermnalis, but smaller and more shrivelled than that on the left. It gave off a vas deferens, which became gradu- ally smaller as it was traced backwards, and at last disappeared altogether without being con- nected with any structure resembling a testi- cle. In regard to the external organs of generation, the penis was four inches long and imperforate, but in all other respects per- fectly formed. It possessed a corpus spongi- osum, which does not exist in the female clitoris. On raising the penis, it was observed to cover a large fissure, the sides of which resembled the labia of a female. In the left labium or left half of the scrotum the testicle already alluded to was placed, but there was none in the right. When the labia were separated, two red spongy bodies were seen, resembling the nymphse in appearance, and seemingly consisting of the sides of the split urethra. Between these bodies and at their upper part, the urethra opened as in the female ; while below there was a very narrow aperture covered by a semilunar membrane, and pre- senting on one side of its entrance a small ex- crescence somewhat resembling in figure a caruncula myrtiformis. This orifice led into a membranous canal or cul-de-sac an inch in depth, and half an inch in diameter. On the lower part of this canal the verumontanum and orifices of the seminal ducts of both sides were discovered. During life Pierre had been considered a male, but was not known to have shown any partiality for the female sex. His counte- nance was more delicate than what we ordi- narily see in the male sex. There was no beard on the face ; the larynx was not enlarged as in man ; and the raamnis, each of which was furnished with a very large areola, were of a moderate size and roundish form. The con- figuration of the lower part of the body was more decidedly masculine, and there was none of that enlargement of the buttocks and projection of the thighs, from the increased width of the pelvis, which is observable in young females. In this case we have on the left side of the body male sexual organs, consisting of a per- fect testicle, vas deferens,and vesicula seminalis. On the right side, again, we have a female ovary and Fallopian tube with a rudimentary uterus, together with an imperfect male vesicula semi- nalis and vas deferens. Arnaud mentions a very imperfect form of lateral hermaphroditism as having been re- cognised by M. Boudou, surgeon to the Hotel- Dieu of Paris, on the person of a monk who died in that hospital in 1726. The external genital parts were those of a hypospadic male. In one of the halves of the scrotum a testicle was found ; the other was empty. The seminal canals and vesicula? seminales on the side on which the perfect testicle existed were natural in their course and situation. Those of the opposite side lost themselves between the bladder and rectum in a small body, which, in M. Boudou's opinion, was a shrunk uterus.* Among the preceding cases of lateral herma- phroditism in the human subject, there are four in which the left side, and one only in which the right was the female. In the last instance quoted from Boudou the respective sides on which the male and female organs were placed are not stated by Arnaud. B. Transverse hermaphroditism.—In the variety of hermaphroditic malformation which we have last considered, we have found upon the same individual the reproductive organs of one side disagreeing in their sexual type from those of the other. In the present division we have a similar sexual antagonism following a different direction ; for supposing the internal sexual apparatus to be divided from the external by a transverse line, we have, in trans- verse hermaphroditism, on each side of this partition, organs of an opposite sexual type : in other words, the organs of reproduction (in the more correct sense of the word) or the internal sexual organs do not, in the present species of hermaphroditism, correspond in type with the organs of copulation, or the external sexual parts,—a circumstance the occasional occurrence of which tends to shew that these two portions of the generative apparatus are in some degree independent of one another in their normal development and existence, and consequently also in their abnormal formations. Transverse hermaphroditism varies in its character according to the relative positions occupied by the co-existing male and female oigans; the external organs, or all those ex- terior to the supposed transverse line, being sometimes female, and the internal male, and vice versa. 1. Transverse hermaphroditism with the external sexual organs of the female type.—In the cases included under this division, the ex- ternal genital oigans consist of a clitoris, vagina, and uterus ; the uterus is often rudi- mentary, and sometimes altogether absent and replaced by the male vesicula? seminales. The male internal organs are the testicles, generally small and imperfectly developed, and placed either within or without the abdomen, with vasa deferentia terminating in the uterus and vagina. This variety of sexual malformation has been repeatedly observed among our domestic quadrupeds, particularly among black cattle. Mr. John Hunter, in an essay read before the Royal Society in 1779, and published in their Transactions^ and in his Observations on the Animal Economy, shewed that, (as had been long known among agriculturists,) when among black cattle the cow brings forth twin calves, one of them a male, and the other apparently a female, the male is a perfect bull calf, but the female, while it has all the external marks of a cow-calf, as the teats and udder, is still, with a few exceptions, imperfectly formed in its * Arnaud, loc. cit. p. 283. f Vol. lxix.