812 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. culars of a case of fracture of the neck of the femur, whicli were read before the Medico- Chirurgical Society on the 5th of June, 1827. The following is an abstract of it. Dr. James, an English physician, set. 47, in good health, was thrown from his horse on the 20th of March, 1826. He fell directly on the great trochanter, but got up and walked a step or two, which occasioned such acute pain in the hip-joint that he instantly fell again. On examination im- mediately after the accident, Dr. Brulalour observed the principal signs of fracture of the neck of the femur. Extension of the limb was kept up for two months so as to preserve it of its natural length. He recovered the full use of the limb so as to be able to walk without any assistance, even that of a cane. Dr. James, on the 20th of December, about nine months after the accident, was attacked with hasmate- mesis, which in two days terminated fatally. The post-mortem examination of the right coxo- femoral articulation shewed—1st, the capsule a little thickened; 2d, the cotyloid cavity sound; 3d, the inter-articular ligament in a natural state; 4th, the neck of the femur shortened, from the bottom of the head to the top of the great trochanter was only four lines, and from the same point to the top of the small trochanter six lines; 5th, an unequal line sur- rounded the neck, denoting the direction of the fracture; 6th, at the bottom of the head of the femur and at the external and posterior part considerable bony deposit had taken place. A section of the bone was made in a line drawn from the centre of the head of the femur to the bottom of the great trochanter so as perfectly to expose the callus. The line of union indi- cated by the callus was smooth and polished as ivory. The line of callus denoted also that the bottom of the head of the femur had been broken at its superior and posterior part. Case 3.—Mr. Stanley, surgeon to St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital, in May 1833 read before the Medico-Chirurgical Society of London a case of bony union of a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone within the capsule, occurring in a young subject a;t. 18. In the examination of the body of this young man, who died of what was considered to be small-pox about three months after the accident of the hip-joint, no other morbid appearances were discovered besides those of the injured hip-joint. The capsule of the joint was entire but a little thickened, the ligamentum teres was uninjured, a line of fracture extended obliquely through the neck of the femur, and entirely within the capsule, the neck of the bone was shortened, and its head, in consequence, approximated to the trochanter major. The fractured surfaces were in the closest apposition and firmly united, nearly in their whole extent, by bone. There was an irregular deposition of bone upon the neck of the femur, beneath its synovial and periosteal covering along the line of the fracture. Mr. Stanley adds, " the foregoing case is re- markable from the occurrence of a fracture of the neck of the femur within the capsule at an early age, and it is, I believe, the only example of it on record." Sir A. Cooper has published a letter in the Medical Gazette, April 1834, vol. xiv., which is intended to explain his sentiments upon this subject, and to set the profession in general and the French surgeons in particular right as to the conceptions formed of the doctrine he held as to the susceptibility of the bony con- solidation of the intra-capsular fracture. In it we find the following case. Case 4.—Mrs. Powell, aged above 80 years, fell down in the afternoon of the 14th of No- vember, 1824. Sir Astley Cooper saw her soon after, and found her complaining very much of pain in the left hip. The limb could be moved in every direction, but this motion produced excessive pain. She lay on her back with the limb extended, and nothing whatever was done, except to apply fomentations, in the first few days. He believed there was a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone although the limb remained quite as long as the other, and he could per- ceive neither a crepitus nor any altered appear- ance in its position, except a slight inclination of the toes outwards. She had more constitu- tional irritation than Sir Astley ever observed from a similar accident. She suffered much pain in the hip, and was in consequence obliged to take an opiate, but she got very little rest. She generally had much thirst. There was the utmost difficulty in keeping her bowels open, and she had great pain and difficulty in making water. She had no appetite for common food, and for three weeks appeared so weak that she was under the necessity of taking wine and brandy. For some time all her urine and stools were passed in bed, but not involuntarily, and only because she could not be persuaded to use proper means; in consequence her back became very sore. Latterly she complained of pain in the abdomen, which was very tender on pressure, and even the weight of the bed- clothes was inconvenient. Her tongue became very dry and brown, and the last twenty-four hours she was insensible. She died on the morning of the 19th December about five. Examination.—This took place at seven in the evening. There was some ecchymosis amongst the muscles about the injured part and in the cellular membrane about the sciatic and anterior crural nerves. The greatest part of the fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, which was entirely within f8e capsular ligament, was firmly united. A section was made through the fractured part, and a faint white line was perceived in one portion of the union, but the rest appeared to be entirely bone. This case, says Mr. Swan, beautifully shews the principle which Sir A.Cooper has advocated, viz. that when the reflected ligament remains whole, and the bones are not drawn asunder, the nourishment to the head of the bone continues, and union will be produced even in the short space of five weeks, by only placing the knee over a pillow, and in other respects leaving the case to nature. We find Mr. Samuel Cooper is of opinion that a bony consolidation of the intra-capsular fracture is proved. He says,* " Sir A. Cooper * Surgical Diet. p; 575, last ed.