752 HERNIA. through this ring, it lias the epigastric artery to its internal or pubic side, and generally the vessels of the cord behind it; but a variety sometimes occurs, for the hernia may protrude exactly at the spot where the spermatic artery and vas deferens meet each other at an angle, and separate these vessels from each other, leaving the artery rather to the outside and in front, the vas deferens still occupying its usual situation behind. After the hernia has passed the fascia transversalis, it is still behind the fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and has to pass a few lines (the dis- tance varying in different subjects) before it reaches the posterior surface of the tendon of the external oblique. On prosecuting this dis- section further by detaching the fascia trans- versalis from the transversalis muscle in a di- rection downwards and outwards, the intestine will be found to have entered a canal of an inch and a quarter to an inch and a half in length, its direction being obliquely downwards and inwards to the external ring. This is termed the inguinal canal, and is thus formed. Pou- part's ligament, whether it be considered as a portion of the tendon of the external oblique or not, is powerfully strong and thick : to it the fascia transversalis is firmly adherent behind, and the thinner and more expanded fibres of the tendon of the external oblique before. Between these, then, a sheath is formed in which the hernia is lodged, having in front the tendon of the external oblique, and also covered by the cremaster muscle, particularly that part of it which has its origin from Poupart's liga- ment. Behind it is the fascia transversalis, and more internally or nearer the pubis the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis, and below is Poupart's ligament. Above, it is crossed obliquely by the inferior margin of the internal oblique and transversalis. These muscles have a fleshy origin from the ex- ternal third of Poupart's ligament, from which they pass in an arched form to be inserted by a common tendon into the crest of the pubis. Under this arch the viscus slips and thus places itself anterior to the conjoined tendon before passing through the external ring and becoming a scrotal hernia. Anatomists have not agreed in their descrip- tions of the internal oblique muscle, although a correct and accurate knowledge of the situa- tion of it and of the transversalis in the neigh- bourhood of the rings is indispensable to the right understanding of hernia. According to Sir A. Cooper* and Lawrence,f the upper part only of the internal ring is shut up by these muscles,leaving the lower unprotected, and con- sequently, according to this view of the subject, a hernia on entering the inguinal canal should have them above it. CloquetJ states that the inferior border of the transversalis passes on a level with the superior, opening internally, but the edge of the internal oblique is lower down, * Page 6. t Lawrence on Ruptures, p. 162. $ Anatomy of Hernia, by Jules Cloquct, trans- lated by M'Whinnie, p. 6. covers the spermatic cord in the inguinal canal, and passes over it to be inserted into the pubis at the point where it escapes from the inferior opening of the canal, that is, the external ring. Scarpa* gives a different description still, where he says, " towards the side at about eight lines distance from the apex of the ring, the lower muscular fibres of the internal oblique muscle separate from each other to allow the sper- matic cord to pass between them;" and Guthrief considers the occasional passage of a hernia through the fibres of this muscle, and its compression by them, to be no unfrequeut cause of strangulation. It is not easy to reconcile these conflicting authorities, which in them- selves demonstrate the fact that the inferior- border of this muscle exhibits some varieties in its relation to the inguinal canal and internal ring according to the extent of its origin from Poupart's ligament. When a hernia is present, I have always seen it arched over the neck of the sac, and although I would by no means assert that a rupture never takes its course between these muscular fibres, yet I have not met with an instance, and as I have observed elsewhere, I imagine such an occurrence would create a deviation from the usual relative anatomy of the cremaster muscle with respect to the hernial sac—See Abdomen. The inguinal canal terminates in front at the external ring, which is formed by a separation of the fibres of the external oblique muscle as it passes inwards and downwards to be inserted into the pubis. Almost immediately after the muscle has become tendinous, a disposition to this separation is observable, and a kind of split is formed in the tendon, the edges of which are, however, pretty firmly held in their re- lative positions by fibres passing closely and irregularly across from one to the other. These fibres have been called the intercolumnar fascia. Besides these there is a very remarkable ar- rangement of tendinous fibres seeming to arise from Poupart's ligament, and thence radiating in an arched form (the convexity of the arch looking towards the pubis) to form a strong in- terlacement with the fibres of the external oblique.;]; Independent of these adventitious bands the tendon itself, as it approaches the crural arch and the pubis, seems to become thicker and stronger; and (as has been remarked by Scarpa) in the dead body after the integuments are removed and the parts left for some time exposed, the lower portion of the aponeurosis appears opaque and dense, while the part above the umbilicus preserves its transparency, and allows the fleshy fibres of the subjacent muscle to be seen through it. The separation above alluded to being effected, the tendon is divided into two portions, termed the pillars of the ring: the anterior or internal is broader and flatter, and runs to be inserted into the pubis of the opposite side, and the ligamentous sub- stance that covers the front of this bone. The » Page 25. t Anatomy of Hernia. | Sometimes termed Camper's fascia, from its being so admirably delineated in the " Icones."