720 HERMAPHRODITISM. of the testicles in the abdomen, &c. In the same way, when the female assumes the secon- dary characters of the male, it is either, first, when by original malformation its own ovaries and sexual organs are so defective in structure as not to be capable of taking a part in the function of reproduction, and of exercising that influence over the general organization which this faculty imparts to them; or, secondly, when in the course of age the ovaries have ceased to be capable of performing the action allotted to them in the reproductive process. In both of these cases we observe the powers of the female organization, now that its capabilities of performing its particular office in the continuation of the species are wanting or lost, expend themselves in perfecting its own individual system, and hence the ani- mal gradually assumes more or fewer of those secondary sexual characters that belong to the male. We do not consider it subversive of the pre- ceding view to qualify it with the two follow- ing admissions,—1st, that, owing to the ener- gies of the female system being so strongly and constantly directed towards the reproduc- tive organs, and the accomplishment of those important functions which these organs have to perform in the economy of the species, the general characters of the species may be de- veloped in her body in a degree less than they otherwise would be, or than actually consti- tutes the proper standard of the species ; and, 2dly, in consequence of the peculiarities of the sexual functions of the female, some of the individual organs of her system, as the mamma?, are evolved in a degree greater than is consonant with the standard characters of the species. At the same time we would here remark that the occasional enlarged condition of the mamma) in hermaphrodites in whom the male sexual type of structure predominates, (as in the examples of spurious male herma- phrodites that have been quoted from Sir E. Home, and in other instances mentioned by Renauldin, Julien, Petit, Rullier, and others in the human subject, as well as in numerous cases among hermaphrodite quadrupeds,) would almost seem to shew that the full development of the mammary glands is a character proper to the species in general, rather than one pecu- liar to the female system alone. In males, also, who are perfect in their reproductive organs and functions, the mamma? are some- times observed to be developed in so complete a manner as to be capable of secreting milk, forming what may be regarded as one of the slightest approaches towards hermaphroditic malformation in the male organization;* and * The secretion of milk in the mammary glands of the male is occasionally observed amongst our domestic quadrupeds. See Gurlt's Pathologischen Anatomie der Haus-Saugthiere, Bd. ii. s. 188 ; Blumenbach in the Hanoversich Magazin for 1787 ; and Home in Comp. Anat. iii. p. 328. Among the recorded instances and observations upon it in man we may refer to Paullini, Cynographia, p. 52 ; Schacher, De Lacte Virorum et Virginum, Leipz. the mammae of the infants of both sexes not unfrequently contain a lactiform fluid at birth. In some instances of hermaphroditic mal- formation the total form and configuration of the body have been alleged to present not only a general tendency towards the physical se- condary characters of the opposite sex, or to exhibit in a permanent state the neutral con- dition existing before puberty, but different individual parts of it have been occasionally conceived to be developed after a different sexual type. Thus, for instance, we have al- ready mentioned in regard to Hubert Jeau Pierre, that the upper half of the body of this individual seemed formed after the female, and the lower half after the male type, the larynx and mammae being quite feminine, the face shewing no appearance of beard, and the arms being delicate and finely rounded, while the pelvis was narrow, and the thighs were marked and angled as in man. In a case described by Schneider,* the reverse held true, the bust being male with a strong beard and large thorax, and the pelvis being large and distinctly female. A more mixed combination of the secondary sexual characters has been already described as existing in the cases detailed by Ricco, Mayer, Arnaud, Bouillaud, &c. One side of the body has been sometimes observed to be apparently formed in one or more of its parts on a sexual type different from that of the same parts on the opposite side. Girald, in his Topography of Ireland,f mentions a reputed female, who had the right side of the face bearded like that of a man, and the left smooth like that of a woman. Mr. King J has described an interesting in- stance of hermaphroditic malformation in an individual whose general character was mas- culine, but with the pelvis large and wide; the left testicle only had descended into the groin, and the mamma of this side was small comparatively to that of the opposite or right side. In a hind mentioned by Mr. Hay,§ and which, he believed, had never produced any young, one of the ovaries on dissection after death was found to be scirrhous. The animal had one horn resembling that of a three years- old stag on the same side with the diseased ovary ; there was no horn on the opposite side. Bomare|| has given a similar case in the same 1742; Sinnibaldus, Geneanthrop. torn. iv. p. 456; Alex. Benedictus, Anatom. Corp. Hum. lib. iii. p. 595 ; Winslow, Anatomy, vol. ii. p. 214 ; Deusing, De Lacte, p. 327; Kyper, Anthropo- logia, lib. i. p. 490; Buffon, Hist. Nat. torn. ii. p. 543; Bishop of Cork, Phil. Trans, vol. xli. p. 813 ; Humboldt, Personal Narrative, vol. iii. p. 57 ; Franklin, First Expedition to the Polar Seas, (London, 1823.) p. 157. * Kopp's Jahrbuch der Staatsarzneikunde, Bd. x. s. 134. t Topog. Hiberniae, in Camden's Angl.&c.(1603), part ii. p. 724. t London Med. Repository for 1820, vol. xiii. p. 87. 4 Linnaean Transactions, vol. iii. p. 356. [| Journ. de Phys. torn. vi. p. 506.