961 INSECTA. Wagner, who has found that the fibre is pro- longed as a sheath over the sides of the cone, of which it is supposed to form a part. In this manner, each of the thousands of corneules or facets that form die compound eye, transmits impressions from without inwards to the optic nerve and brain, the perception of each being- confined to that of the object immediately before it, or in a line with its axis of vision. On the exterior surface, between each cornea, there are often some very fine hairs, as on the cornea of the bee, which Burmeister likens to eyelashes, and thinks that they assist to con- fine the field of vision, as well as protect the cornea. This is the usual structure of the eye. In Melolontha, Straus-Durckheim describes the filament of the optic nerve as passing through a second or common choroid, and as afterwards uniting to form a general retina, which is connected with the optic nerve by means of short thick columns. The use he assigns to this structure is that of intercepting tlie impressions of light, which might otherwise be too powerful. The ocelli, or simple eyes of insects, re- semble those of Arachnidans,* in being formed of a very convex, smooth, single cornea, benea<th which is a spherical crystalline lens, resting upon the plano-convex surface .of the expanded vitreous humour, the analogue of the transparent cones of the compound .eyes. The vitreous humour, as in Arachnidans, is inore convex on its posterior or under surface, and is contained in the expanded retina at the termination of the optic tubercle, upon which each ocellus is situated, the exterior surface of the retina being covered by a dark pigmentous membrane, the proper choroid, which is re- flected inwards upon the anterior portion of the -vitreous humour, to form the iris and pupillary aperture. Midler, who discovered this struc- ture in the stemmata of insects as well as Arachnidans, concludes that the function of the simple eyes is confined exclusively to the perception of near objects, and that of the compound eyes to more distant ones, and has given many facts in illustration of this opinion, and which shew that in many instances, parti- cularly in the Orlhoptera, the ocelli are so placed as to 'render it almost impossible that they can be used except in viewing near ob- jects. In all inseets that undergo a true me- tamorphosis ocelli constitute the only organs of vision in the larva state. They vary in number in different species; thus in the active larvae of Hymenoptera, as in Athalia, there are only two, one on each side of the head ; this is also the number in some of the carnivorous Coleoptera. But in others there are six on each side, as in Dyticns, and the same number is found in most of the Lepidoptera. We have recently detected what we believe to be organs of vision in a Dipterous larva, OZsirusovis, (jig. 360,) which resides in the frontal sinuses of the sheep, into which, probably, a small amount of light may enter through the nostrils. These consist of two brown spots on each side of the * S*e Akaciinida, voU i, /ig. 94. VOL. 11. head, (h 2,) placed at a little distance from each other, immediately beneath a convex and very transparent part of the tegument, which resem- bles a true cornea. This is the most simple form of eye we have yet met with in insects, and seems to be merely for the perception of light, like the eyes of the Medusa discovered by Ehrenberg, but perhaps more organized, as the spots observed appear to be a choroid, which is seen to descend until it is lost in the substance of the part. No compound eyes exist in any larva that undergoes a complete metamorphosis. In those which undergo an incomplete one, as in the Orthoptera, the facets of the eye are larger and more convex than in the perfect state, and the true ocelli which exist in the perfect state are not deve- loped. In the larva and pupa of lieduvitis personatus there is an aggregation of simple eyes, like those of Myriapoda, very much larger and more convex than the facets of the compound eye of the perfect insect. Simple eyes exist in the perfect state in the Hymenop- tera, Orthoptera, Ilemiptera, Neuroptera, Tri- choptera, Homoptera, and in some of the Lepi- doptera and Hornaloptera, and in a very few instances in the Coleoptera. Organ of hearing.—Every naturalist who has at all attended to the consideration of the faculty of hearing in insects, is doubtless convinced that these little creatures are not merely affected by sounds, but that hearing constitutes one of their chief senses; yet it is hitherto undecided what organ or part of the animal is the seat of this function. Wehaveabove stated ouropinion, (p. 892,) with many others, that it resides in the antennae, which, if this be not confirmed, is at any rate supported by the experiments hitherto made upon these organs, and also by their structure and the manner in which they are employed by the insect. The nerves distributed to the antennae have often a ganglion at their base, and are divided into many branches almost immediately after they have entered the organ, so that at present no difference has been detected between the distribution of the nerves to these parts and those to other structures. They cer- tainly exhibit no bulbed extremity like the audi- tory nerves of the higher animals, while the manner in which the antennae are employed by many insects has induced some observers to believe that they are simply organs of touch. This cannot be their primary function, since, as formerly remarked, they are too short to be employed as tactile organs by many insects, while their structure, we conceive, is in every instance adapted for hearing or perceiving the pulsations of the atmosphere. Organs of touch.—The organs which appear specially adapted to the exercise of this function are the palpi, which derive their nerves, as above shown, from the medulla oblongata. These organs are employed in a similar manner by all insects to touch the food. It is with these that the insect, as it were, feels about when it is in search of nourishment, and hence these may be regarded as the proper tactile organs. It has sometimes been supposed that they are also concerned in the function of taste. Z it