870 INSECTA. Forficula, and Cicada (fig. 353), the insect is very much smaller, but has the general form of the parent, without any rudiments of wings or elytra. Another description of larva is that in which the insect comes from the egg either as a fat sluggish grub, or as an active and vora- cious one, with an elongated body very different in form from that of the parent, and is furnished with but six legs, which are attached to the anterior part of the body, in addition in some instances to two processes employed as legs at its posterior extremity. Examples of the last of these occur in the voracious water- beetles, Dyticida, in the Carabidcc or ground- beetles (fig. 354) and many others ; and of the Fig. 354. Larva of Calosoma Sycophanta ( Burmeister). first, in the Chaffer-beetles Melolontha, and stag and dung-beetles, Eucanida and Geotru- pidm (fig. 332). Other kinds of larvae, to which the term is more strictly applicable, are known to every one, as the caterpillars of butterflies and moths. These and the pseudo- caterpillars, the larvae of the saw-flies, Ten- thredinida, (fig. 355, a), are active and have Fig. 355. B A A , larva, and B, perfect state of Athalia centifoliee, the saw-fly of the turnip, (Newport, Prize Essay.) elongated bodies furnished, in addition to the six legs at the anterior part, with many others along the posterior. They undergo a complete metamorphosis, both of external and internal conformation in passing from the larva to the perfect condition. Besides these there are, as in the instance of hornets (figs. 356 and 357) and bees, larvae which are entirely destitute of organs of locomotion, and exist simply as elon- gated maggots; and others, as some of the flesh-flies, Musca, and the tailed maggots that inhabit the most noisome puddles, Eristalis teuax, which are entirely destitute of the true or anterior legs, and have only those which are attached to the abdomen. These kinds of larvae were formerly referred by Fabricius, under special designations, to different kinds of metamorphoses, which those designations were supposed to indicate; but, as remarked by Burmeister,* neither were the terms employed in strict accordance with the conditions of the larvae themselves, nor always indicatory of the metamorphoses they were about to undergo. We fully agree, therefore, in the opinion expressed by Burmeister, that the different kinds of larvae are referable to only two kinds of metamorphoses; the one a metamorphosis incompletu, which consists sim- ply in the insect shedding its skin and increasing in size, and in some cases acquiring new organs, but in all stages of its existence continuing active, and having the form of the parent, as in the instances above noticed; and the other a metamorphosis cornpleta, in- cluding all insects which in the larva state have a form different from the parent, and undergo a complete change, both of external and inter- nal conformation, before they arrive at the per- fect state. But whatever be the form or changes of the insect, the larva state may be looked upon as its most voracious period of life. In many species it is also its longest period. Those which do not hybernate in the perfect state exist but for a very short time as larvae; while those which continue for a long period in the larva state, as the Eucanida and Melolonthidse, some of which are said to continue for four years, pass but a little while in the perfect. But these periods are not always equally long in different species of the same families. Thus among the Apidxe, the Bombus terreslris, or common humble-bee, exists but for a short period in the larva, but a long one in the per- fect state ; while in a closely allied genus An- t/wphora retusa, one of the solitary bees, that form separate nidi in vertical sections of dry banks exposed to the sun, the insect often con- tinues through the whole winter in the larva state, and only exists for a few weeks of the following summer in the perfect. On the other hand the numerous species of Muscidce exist but a short time as larva?, or maggots, but a very long time as active flies. External unatomy of the larva.—The body of a larva is in general composed of thirteen distinct segments, or divisions ; the first consti- tutes the head, with the organs of manducation, the second, third, and fourth, and, as we shall hereafter see, in part also the fifth, together form the thorax of the future Imago, while the remaining ones form the third division of the body, the abdomen. In most insects in the larva state, the whole of these segments from the second to the thirteenth are equally deve- loped, and differ but little from each other in their general appearance. The second, third, and fourth segments have each a pair of short scaly feet, the rudiments of the future limbs, and the segments of the abdomen are often furnished with soft membranaceous ones, which disappear entirely when the larva undergoes its metamorphosis. On each side of the body there are in general nine oval apertures, the * Manual, Trans, p. 34.