428 GENERATION. It was then that the foundation was laid for the discussion between Epigenesis and Evolu- tion, the two theories of generation which have more recently occupied the attention of men of science, and which, as has already been remarked, relate principally to the nature of the formative process. Harvey and Malpighi may be regarded as the first who endea- voured, from the observation of facts, to establish the general law of Epigenesis as opposed to the older views of Preformation entertained by the Ovists or Spermatists; but it was not till near the middle of the last century that these opinions were opposed to one another in a decidedly controversial manner. At that time Caspar Frederick Wolff* sup- ported the system of Epigenesis by a reference to observations on the minute changes of the egg of the fowl during the early stages of formation of the chick, while Haller and Bonnet advocated the opposite opinion of Evolution. Wolff and those who followed his system held that no appearance of the new animal is to be found in the perfect impregnated egg before the commencement of incubation, but that when the formative process is established by the influence of heat, air, and other circum- stances necessary to induce it, the parts of the foetus are gradually put together or built up by the apposition of their constituent molecules. Hallerf referred both to his own observations on the chick and to a variety of collateral arguments in support of the system of Evolu- tion, holding that when the foetus makes its appearance in the egg, it does so merely in consequence of the enlargement or evolution of its parts which pre-exist, though in an invisible condition, in the egg. Bonnet} carried this theory further than any one else, but trusting mainly to the observations of Haller on the formation of the foetus, he supported his overdrawn views on highly hypothetical reason- ing. Bonnet, in what is termed the theory of Emboitement, held not only that the whole of the parts of the foetus pre-exist in the egg before the time of their appearance, but also that the germs of all the animals which have been or are to be born pre-exist from the begin- ning in the ovaries of the female; that the genital organs of the first parents of any species, therefore, contain the germs of all their pos- terity ; that these germs lie dormant in their abode until one or more are aroused by the exciting influence of the male; and that con- sequently there is not in nature the new forma- tion of any animal. We shall have occasion to shew in the article Ovum that the most recent researches concern- ing the mode of formation of the foetus in birds, quadrupeds, and other animals, and more particularly the microscopic observations * Theoria Generationis, published as an Inaugu- ral Dissertation at Berlin in 1759, and republished jn 8vo. in 1774. t Elementa Physiologiae, &c. torn. vii. Mem. sur la formation du Cceur dans le Poulet. Lau- sanne, 1758, Opera Minora, torn. ii. f Palingenesie Philosophique, Geneve, 1769; also in his Considerations sur les Corps Organises. of Meckel, Pander, Baer, and Rathke,* have shewn the theory of Epigenesis or super- formation of parts to be much more consistent with what is known from observation than the theory of Evolution. In modern writings, however, the term Development is, without reference to theory, employed to denote the mode of growth of the foetus more frequently than any other. We would further remark in relation to our present subject that various names have at different times been given by authors gene- ralizing the phenomena of development to the powers supposed to operate in the formation of the young; as, for example, the Anima vege- taliva, Nisus J'ormativus, Vis plastica, Vis essentialis, expansive, resisting, and vegeta- tive forces. These terms can be considered as little else than general expressions of the fact that the foetus is formed and grows in the egg, and are not more satisfactory expla- nations of the cause of its formation than the hypothesis of organic affinity is of the process of assimilation in the adult animal. As the knowledge of minute anatomy and physiology has increased, and the accurate observation of the process of developement has been more extended, the number of such hypotheses has gradually diminished. Thus the somewhat vague discussion as to the relative probability of Epigenesis and Evo- lution has led to the laborious and accurate investigation of the various steps of the forma- tive process or developement of the foetus, and the conjectures as to the forces or causes which give rise to the growth of the new animal have fallen into comparative neglect; the erroneous notions respecting the source of the germs of male or female offsprings from one or other ovary or testicle have been replaced by a more satisfactory examination of the mode of deve- lopment of the sexual organs in the early stages of their advancement; and the inquiry as to the share taken by one or other parent in the process of generation has been pursued in more modern times by the attentive investigation of the functions of the male and female organs of reproduction, upon the same principles that guide the physiologist in his attempts to explain any other class of functions of the economy. Recent writings on our subject are not, how- ever, altogether free from vague hypotheses of the same nature as the older theories of gene- ration above mentioned. The mechanical explanation of fecundation by the entrance of the seminal animalcule into the egg has been revived by one author; a second considers all the changes of development as under the influence of electro-magnetic currents ; and a third explains the same changes by attributing them to a spontaneous motive power and organic affinitive properties of the molecules of the ovum. It has been well remarked by Professor * After these observers may be mentioned Serres, Prevost and Dumas, Dutrochet, Rolando, Purkinje and Valentin, Coste, and otheis, as contributing materially to the knowledge of this subject.