741 HERNIA. under certain circumstances of imperfect or care- less examination appear to be devoid of a proper sac, formed by a descent of the peritoneum. This occurs at the right groin, is always large, and is formed by a protrusion of the ccecum with the appendix vermiformis and the begin- ning of the colon. The coscum is placed in the right ileo-lumbar region, and a portion of it does not possess a peritoneal covering, but lies abso- lutely without the great abdominal membranous sac: when therefore these parts are protruded, a portion of the ccecum and the beginning of the colon will be found included and contained in the hernial sac, while another portion of the same intestines will be necessarily without the sac, and lying denuded in the cellular substance which accompanies the descent of the perito- neum in the hernia. If this tumour is opened into by an incision carried too much towards its external side, the ccecum and colon will be exposed lying outside of the peritoneum, and ap- parently devoid of a hernial sac; but if cut into precisely in the middle or a little towards the inner side, under the cremasler muscle and the subjacent cellular tissue, the true hernial sac will be found, formed of the peritoneum. Within this will be seen " the greater portion of the ccecum with the appendix vermiformis, and likewise the membranous folds and bridles which seem to be detached from the hernial sac to be inserted into these intestines, the smaller portion of which will be without the sac, in the same manner as when these viscera occupied the ileo-lumbar region." This form of rupture I have never seen, and must there- fore refer the reader to Scarpa's work, wherein he will find the peculiarity most satisfactorily explained. But in the arrangement of herniae, that di- vision is most practically interesting which has reference to the condition or state of the intes- tine or other protruded viscus, and the disease is then described as being reducible, or irredu- cible, or strangulated. 1. A hernia is said to be reducible when it either retires spontaneously on the patient as- suming the recumbent posture, or can be re- placed without difficulty to the operator or future inconvenience to the patient beyond that resulting from the employment of measures adapted to retain it within the cavity. This condition supposes that the relation (particu- larly as to size) between the hernia and the aperture through which it had escaped has not undergone any alteration. 2. It is irreducible when there is such a change in the structure, situation, or other con- dition of the protruded viscus as to render it impossible to be returned, although the aper- ture through which it passed may offer no im- pediment. There is another case in which a hernia has been considered irreducible, namely, when it would be impolitic or unwise to attempt the reduction, supposing it to be perfectly practicable. 3. A hernia is strangulated when the relation as to size between the protruded viscus and the aperture through which it has passed is so altered as not only to prevent reduction, but to cause such a degree of compression at the aperture as will interrupt the circulation through the escaped viscus, and endanger its vitality. This condition has been supposed to exist in two different forms, strangulation by inflammation and by " engouement,"* or as Scarpa terms them, " the acute and chronic ;"f but this division only has reference to the severity of the symptoms aud to the rapidity or slowness of their progress, for although an intestine may be in a state of obstruction which will, if unrelieved, proceed to strangulation, yet the latter state cannot be said to have arrived until the return of the venous blood from it is actually impeded. The protruded viscus is then in a situation precisely similar to that of a limb round which a cord had been tied with sufficient tightness to interrupt the circulation and threaten to induce mortification. These different conditions will be best under- stood by tracing a rupture through each of them in succession. A person may be suspected to have a reduci- ble hernia when, after the application of some force calculated violently to compress all the viscera of the abdomen, an indolent tumour appears proceeding from some of those places where the walls of the abdomen are Known to be weakest and least resisting. And the sus- picion is increased if the tumour is elastic, if it sounds clearly on gentle percussion, and becomes suddenly puffed up and swelled, as if by air blown into it, when the patient coughs, sneezes, or performs any of those actions which forcibly agitate the abdominal parietes. The reducible hernia becomes smaller or .perhaps disappears altogether when the patient lies down : it appears of its full size when he stands erect; if neglected, it has a constant tendency to increase, which it does sometimes by de- grees, slowly and almost imperceptibly, but more frequently by sudden additions to its bulk, which are formed by new protrusions. In this form of the disease the qualities of the viscus engaged within the sac, as to form, size, and structure, may be considered as unchanged : within the abdomen, however, the fold of mesentery which supports the protruded intes- tine is constantly more elongated than it natu- rally should be, and likewise thicker and more loaded with fat. It is also marked with dilated and tortuous veins. Although thus displaced, the viscus is_ still capable of performing its part in the function of digestion, and as long as the contents of the bowel pass fairly and uninterruptedly through it, there can be little or no danger; but it is not difficult to conceive how a gut so circum- stanced may occasion great inconvenience. The peristaltic motion must be more or less impaired ; the passage of the contents may be delayed, and hence will arise nausea, colicky pains, eructations, and those other dyspeptic symptoms from which even the most favoured patients do not escape. These irregularities * Goursaud, Mem. del'Acad. Roy. de Chir. torn, ii. p. 382. t Op. cit. p. 290.