508 BONES OF THE HAND. Although the perfect prehensile hand is pecu- liar to man and the Quadrumana, the inferior segment of the anterior extremity will be found to possess many interesting analogies through- out the mammiferous series. On this point we refer to the articles Osseous System (Comp. Anat.) and Skeleton. JOINTS OF THE HAND. Joints of the carpus.—The bones consti- tuting each row of the carpus are firmly con- nected by strong ligaments, so that their com- bined surfaces form one extended surface adapted to the radius, or to the metacarpus, or to each other. Thus the union of the superior articular surfaces of the upper carpal row con- stitutes the convex surface that contributes to the formation of the wrist-joint, whilst the united inferior articular surfaces of the same row are adapted to the united superior surfaces of the inferior carpal row. Again, the inferior articular surfaces of this last row enter into the formation of the carpo-metacarpal joints. - The several articulations of each row are strengthened by two sets of ligaments, one on the palmar, the other on the dorsal surface of the joints, palmar and dorsal ligaments; they extend transversely from one bone to the other. The palmar ligaments are considerably stronger than the dorsal. The synovial membranes which exist in these small articulations are merely offsets from the large synovial mem- brane which is interposed between the two rows of the carpus. In the articulation between the scaphoid and lunar bones, as well as in that between the lunar and cuneiform, we observe a remarkable fibre-cartilaginous lamina interposed in the whole extent of each articulation from before backwards, although not extending over the entire articular surfaces. These lamina; are readily seen on opening the radio-carpal joint in the interval between the bones above men- tioned ; they are attached to the palmar and dorsal ligaments by their anterior and posterior extremities. When dissected out they will be found to be wedge-shaped, the thick edge being directed towards the wrist-joint, and adherent to the synovial membrane of that joint. These laminae are described by most anatomists as ligaments, under the name of interosseous liga- ments. Of their fibro-cartilaginous nature, however, I have no doubt from repeated and careful examinations; they may therefore be more correctly denominated interosseous fibro- cartilages. Feeble interosseous ligaments exist on either side of the os magnum between it and the unciform on one side, and the trapezoid on the other; they are best seen when these bones are torn from each other. Articulation of the two rows of carpal bones to each'other.—The superior articular surfaces of the four bones composing the inferior carpal row are adapted to the inferior articular surfaces of the scaphoid, lunar, and cuneiform bones. The head of the os magnum and the superior articular surface of the unciform bone form a prominent convexity, which is received into a deep concavity formed on the ulnar side by the cuneiform bone, on the radial side by the scaphoid, and in the centre by the lunar bone; whilst external to the projection of the os mag- num, a superficial oblong concavity receives the convexity on the inferior and outer surface of the scaphoid. Thus the line of this articulation has somewhat of the course of the roman S placed horizontally, w. That part of the arti- culation which is to the ulnar side, then, par- takes more of the nature of enarthrodia or ball and socket joint, while that to the radial side is arthrodia with almost plane surfaces. This articulation is strengthened in front by an anterior or palmar ligament which is of considerable strength and thickness. Most of the fibres of this ligament are attached inferiorly to the palmar surface of the os magnum, whence they diverge to be inserted into the scaphoid, lunar, and cuneiform bones; some few fibres extend from the trapezoid and trape- zium to the scaphoid, and from the unciform to the cuneiform. Behind we find a dorsal ligament, also strong, although much less so than the palmar. This ligament extends obliquely from the bones of the first row to those of the second, but is stronger on the ulnar than on the radial side. The extent and con- nexions of both these ligaments are best seen when the joint is opened, by cutting through the dorsal ligament to view the palmar, and vice versa. The ligaments called lateral by some anatomists are merely the continuation of the lateral ligaments of the wrist-joint; nor do those described by Cruveilhier under the name of glenoid ligaments deserve to be separated from the anterior and posterior, of which they constitute that portion most intimately connected with the anterior and posterior notches of the hollow cavity in which the head of the os mag- num is lodged. In opening this joint in the manner already described, it will be seen how extensive is its synovial membrane. It extends some distance on the palmar and dorsal surfaces of the neck of the os magnum, and sends two processes between the bones of the first row (between the scaphoid and lunar, and the lunar and cuneiform), and three processes between those of the second row, (one on each side of the os magnum,) and one between the trapezium and trapezoid. Motions of the carpal articulations.—An examination of the dissected carpus will at once show how limited are the motions between any two of the carpal bones of each row. The movement of one row upon the other, however, is more extensive, but only in the direction of flexion and extension, the former being con- siderably greater in consequence of the less resistance of the dorsal ligaments. Solidity and strength, a power of resistance to violence which might easily occasion fracture, were the carpus one solid bone, are gained by the num- ber of small bones of which it is composed, the arthrodial form of its articulations, and the strong ligaments by which the motions of these joints are restricted. Articulation of the pisiform bone. — The pisiform bone is so little connected with the mechanism of the carpus that its articulation