433 GENERATION. in another manner. The most remarkable ex- amples of this are met with in Polypi, Entozoa, and Annelida. When the Hydra viridis is cut. through either longitudinally or transversely, each segment continues to live and grow, and is gradually furnished with those parts of the body of which it was deprived by the division. Thus, when the polype is divided across the body, the part with the head and tentacula is gradually furnished with a body, while ten- tacula grow on the elongated extremity of the other part. When, again, the animal has been divided in a longitudinal direction, and four tentacula are left on each part, the opposite edges of each segment turn round and unite so as to complete the tube of the stomach, and four additional tentacula are formed upon each. Segments of the Tape-worm, Filaria, and also of some other Entozoa, are capable of living after separation and being converted in- to independent animals. In the Leech and Earth-worm, as well as some other Annelida, the division of the body into two or more seg- ments is not invariably followed by death, but some or all of the portions continue alive, and, acquiring the deficient organs, become con- verted into more or less perfect animals. Gemmiparous generation.—The second form of non-sexual propagation that deserves our attention is that in which the new individual grows upon the parent as a bud or sprout, at first exhibiting little appearance of the form or structure of the perfect animal; gradually as- suming its form while still attached to the parent stem ; and being afterwards separated to enjoy independent existence. The best known examples of this kind of generation occur in the polypine and coralline animals, and the process has been observed with great attention by Trembley in the Hydra viridis.* In this animal the young polype makes its first appearance as a small conical eminence on the body of the parent: this gra- dually enlarges and becomes cylindrical ; a cavity is formed in its interior, which at first is separate, but afterwards comes to communicate with the stomach of the parent, so that aliments taken by the parent penetrate into the stomach of the offspring. As the new polype enlarges, the internal cavity opens at the free extremity, where a mouth, provided wilh tentacula, is formed. The young animal then catches and swallows food for itself: this food at first finds its way into the stomach of the parent, but after some time all communication between the two stomachs is prevented by the closure of the root of the stem of the small polype ; and afterwards the offspring is detached from the parent, be- comes a separate individual, and in its turn propagates new ones from its sides. The time at which the separation takes place seems to depend in some measure on the quantity of food within the reach of the parent; this occur- ring at an early period when the supply is small, and when there may be supposed to be a ne- * Mem. pour servir a l'Hist. dcs Polypes d'eau douce. Leyden, 1744. cessity for the young to move about from place to place in search of sustenance. Sometimes indeed the separation is much retarded, and the young ones also propagate while remaining on the parent stem ; so that the polype assumes a branched form, the parent stem bearing families of several generations. The Sertularia, Vorticella, Zoantha Ellisii, and Cornularia Cornucopias, also propagate by shoots somewhat in the same manner as the Hydra.* Reproduction by separated buds or sporules.— The last form of the non-sexual reproduction is that in which the young are formed from small detached masses after they are separated from the body of the parent. These bodies, generally of a rounded form, may be regarded as buds formed in the parent body, as those of polypes are, but detached from it before the evolution of the new animal begins. They bear the same relation to the offspring as the egg of higher animals to their foetus or embryo, and might be regarded as ova but for an important dif- ference of structure to which we shall after- wards advert. They are called spora?, germina granulosa, and gemma?, or germs : they are homogeneous in their structure, and the whole of the substance of which they are composed is converted in the process of their development into the new animal. In some animals these sporules are formed in all parts of the body indiscriminately, and are therefore found dispersed through it; in others there is present a peculiar organ in which they are formed, constituting the simplest form of a reproductive organ. The Actinia, Me- dusa?, and some of the lower tribes of Mollusca belong to the first of these sets. In the A.phro- dita the sporules lie in the interstices between the different organs of the animal. In those animals in which a particular organ is provided for the formation of the sporules, the name of ovary is given to that organ,—an application of the term not strictly correct, as it belongs more properly to the organ in which complete ova are produced. The production of sporules from a particular generative organ is much the most frequent mode of their formation, and it ob- tains in the greater number of the lower tribes of Mollusca. It is a fact worthy of notice that the spo- rules of some Zoophytes, as those of the Sponge observed by Dr. Grant, are endowed with a faculty of moving, sometimes darting with ra- pidity in various directions through the fluids in which they are produced. These motions seem to depend on Cilia: the sporules are also provided with a hook, by which they become attached to other objects when they settle, * According to Burdach the propagation of the Volvox globator, already mentioned, and of the Vibrio, Cerearia, and Cysticeveus, is effected by the formation of buds, and differs from that of the polype merely in the buds being formed and dis- charged inwardly. We might, perhaps, consider the regeneration of lost parts which takes place in some animals higher in the scale than those pro- pagating by buds as a manifestation in them of a similar power.