6 DIGESTION. dominal muscles forcibly press the stomach against the diaphragm, so as to assist the anti- peristaltic motion of that viscus. Magendie made experiments to show that unless the dia- phragm or abdominal muscles acted on the stomach, no vomiting could take place. He went too far, however, when he attributed the entire result to them. Substituting a pig's bladder for the stomach, he injected tartar emetic into the veins, and vomiting followed. But he forgot that pressure might readily empty a dead bladder and have little effect on a living stomach. And that such is the case we may be certain, else every cough would evacuate the stomach. Lastly, the diaphragm acts the part of a sep- tum or mediastinum to separate the two great cavities between which it is placed. When this septum is wanting, the abdominal viscera get into the thorax, and in such cases the lungs are constantly found in a rudimentary state : their further evolution being impeded by the pressure exerted on them by the intruding viscera.* It has been stated that the oesophageal open- ing may be closed by those fibres of the crura which curve round it. The other openings, as the aortic, and that for the ascending cava, can- not be diminished by the efforts of the muscle. This is plain from the tendinous margins which they present, and the manner in which the mus- cular fibres are attached to their borders. We have not mentioned some of the uses which the ancients ascribed to the diaphragm— as, that it is the seat of the passions,f that it prevented noxious vapours from rising into the thorax, that it fanned the hypochondria, and so forth. These are too fanciful to demand serious notice. Malformations and diseases. — The dia- phragm may be absent in whole or in part by congenital malformation. In the very young foetus the thorax and abdomen form one cavity, as in birds, reptiles, and fishes; and the deve- lopment of the diaphragm, as of most other organs, is by a process of growth from the cir- cumference to 'the centre. If, therefore, an arrest of formation occur at a very early period of foetal existence, the muscle may be entirely wanting; if at a later period, some deficiency will be found at or near the centre. An exam- ple of the total absence of the diaphragm was dissected by Diemorbroeck. The subject lived to the age of seven years without suffering any inconvenience except a frequent cough.J Con- genital deficiencies near its middle are not very rare. They are observed oftener towards the left than the right side, and are always accom- panied with a protrusion of the abdominal viscera into the thorax, not vice versa. The development of the thoracic viscera is impeded by this intrusion, and they remain more or less * Andral's Pathological Anatomy, tr. by Town- send and West, vol. i. t The word phrenic, used with reference to the diaphragm, as phrenic nerve, phrenic centre, &c. has its origin in this opinion, <J>p£Vif, a <f(r,v, mens, tanquam mentis sedes. $ Diet, des Sciences Med. art. Diaphragme. rudimentary. It sometimes happens that the natural openings of the diaphragm are too large, and then protrusions or herniee are apt to occur by the sides of the tubes which they were intended alone to transmit. Openings frequently occur in consequence of disease or violence. Ulcers often make a perforation, and it is common enough to see an abscess of the liver make its way into the lung through the diaphragm. The writer lately saw an abscess, which formed in the gastrosplenic omentum, take the same course. Wounds often penetrate the diaphragm, and it is remarkable that however small they may be, a ventral phrenic hernia is sure to follow. The diaphragm has been suddenly ruptured during violent muscular efforts, vomiting, falls, &c. and instant death has usually followed. Various examples of such ruptures are recorded in the Dictionnaire des Sciences Med. art. Diaphragme. The countenance in all such cases assumes the peculiar expression or grin called risns Sardonicus. The diaphragm is subject to attacks of in- flammation, which, in almost every case, is communicated to it by the adhering pleura or peritoneum. It is indeed usually confined to one or other of these serous membranes, chiefly the pleura, and does not affect the muscular fibre. It is, notwithstanding, termed diaphrag- mitis. Hippocrates called it phrenitis, and Boerhaave changed the name to paraphrenitis, to distinguish it from a well-known cerebral affection. Gangrene, collections of pus, tumours, &c. are occasionally met with, and are of very difficult diagnosis. Cartilaginous and osseous deposits have been found on both sides of the diaphragm in the subserous cellular tissue. The diaphragm is often considerably dis- placed upwards or downwards. In ascites, and in consequence of diseases of the liver and of abdominal tumours, it may be pushed up to the second rib on one side; in thoracic affec- tions again it has been so pushed down as to become convex, in part of its extent, towards the abdomen. Senac mentions a case of great enlargement of the heart which caused the cen- tral tendon to be buried in the abdomen, it being formed into a kind of pouch.* Dr. W. Stokes found the left ala convex towards the abdomen in emphysema of the lungs,f and it is known to yield extensively to the pressure of fluid in cases of empyema, more especially if the pleura covering it has been much engaged, as the same accurate observer has noticed and explained. For Bibliography see that of Anatomy (Intro, duction). (Charles Benson.) DIGESTION. (Fr. digestion; Germ. Ver- dauung; Ital. digestione.) This term is em- ployed in Physiology to designate that func- tion by which alimentary matter is received * Acad, des Sciences, Mem. 1729. t Dublin Med. Journal, vol. ix. p. 37.