EXTREMITY. 160 At the junction of the middle and inferior thirds we notice a very slight and superficial groove passing downwards and inwards, and very much resembling what one would ima- gine might be produced by an attempt to twist the bone while yet in a yielding condition, the inferior third having been twisted inwards and the two superior thirds outwards. This groove indicates the spiral course from above down- wards and from without inwards of the musculo- spiral or radial nerve. Below this groove is the inferior third of the humerus, the anatomical characters of which are very distinct from those of the remaining parts of the bone. A pro- minent and rounded ridge, continuous with that already noticed in connexion with the greater tuberosity, passes vertically down in front of it; from each side of this ridge a smooth surface inclines backwards, forming an inclined plane on each side of it, the ex- ternal being larger and more distinct than the internal. The posterior surface of the upper part of this portion is flat and very smooth. As the bone descends it expands considerably late- rally, so as to present in front a broad surface slightly convex from side to side, bounded on either side by prominent edges, continued from the edges of the inclined planes above de- scribed. Each edge terminates in a pro- minence, the inner one being the largest; the inner edge itself being thicker, more pro- minent, and describing a slight curve as it descends. The posterior surface is limited below by a deep depression, to be further de- scribed hereafter. Thus, by its gradual expan- sion laterally, the inferior portion of the hu- merus, being about one fifth of the entire length of the bone, has a triangular figure, the base being formed by the inferior articular ex- tremity of the bone. The whole shaft of the humerus is com- pletely clothed with muscle. We have already indicated the place of insertion of the deltoid muscle on the outer surface of the bone; all that portion of the outer and anterior surface below the deltoid ridge, and for a little way on each side of its inferior extremity, is co- vered by the brachiaeus anticus muscle. In- ternal to the bicipital groove, on the inner surface of the humerus, about its middle, the coraco-brachialis muscle is inserted. The ex- ternal edge below the spiral groove affords attachment to the brachials anticus, supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, and the triceps muscles. The internal edge below the insertion of the coraco-brachialis has the brachiaus anticus and triceps muscles inserted into it, and both edges afford insertion to intermuscular apo- neuroses, which separate the muscles con- nected with the anterior from those on the posterior part of the bone. The posterior sur- face is completely covered by the triceps mus- cle, excepting in the line which corresponds to the groove already referred to, in which the radial nerve and musculo-spiral artery pass. The foramen for the nutritious artery is found upon the internal surface at the inferior ex- tremity of its middle third; the direction of the canal is downwards; sometimes this fora- men exists upon' the external, or upon the in- ternal surface. The inferior extremity of the humerus is terminated by an articular cylinder, which pro- jects into a plane anterior to that of the shaft of the bone, (processus cubitalis). This cy- linder is placed transversely, but in transverse extent it falls short of the widest part of the inferior third of the humerus. Various de- pressions and elevations are marked upon the surface of this cylinder. Proceeding from without inwards, we notice a convexity or rounded head, limited externally by the mar- gin of the cylinder and internally by a groove, which passes in a curved direction from before backwards, the concavity of the curve corres- ponding to the rounded head. This head is properly denominated the external condyle of the humerus; it articulates with a cavity on the head of the radius ; the anatomist should notice that the axis of this head passes in a direction downwards and forwards. On the anterior surface of the humerus immediately above this head, we observe a slight and very superficial depression which receives the edge or lip of the cavity of the radius, when the forearm is in a state of complete flexion. Internal to the groove which bounds the con- dyle on the inner side, we have a pulley-like surface, which is destined for articulation with the ulna. The concavity which forms the cen- tral part of this pulley is deep, but deeper and wider behind than before; its anterior ex- tremity terminates in communicating with an oval depression on the anterior surface of the bone (fovea anterior minor), which in flexion of the forearm receives the anterior projecting angle of the coronoid process of the ulna; the posterior extremity terminates in a similar depression, (fovea posterior v. sinus maximus,) but a much deeper one, and of greater dimen- sions generally, occupying, in short, nearly the whole posterior surface of the bone; this de- pression receives the olecranon process of the ulna, when the elbow-joint is in extension. The trochlear concavity, in passing from before backwards, takes a curved direction, so that its posterior extremity is much nearer the external part of the articular cylinder than the anterior. This has an important influence on the direc- tion of the motions of the forearm. These two depressions are separated from each other by a thin osseous lamina, almost transparent. We sometimes meet with instances in which this lamina is perforated in consequence of a defect of ossification; and Meckel states that he has found this perforation more frequently in the bones of Negroes and Papuas than in those of the superior races of mankind. It is the permanent condition of many pachydermata, rodentia, carnivora, and quadrumana. On the inside the trochlear concavity is bounded by a thick and projecting lip, which, when the bone is placed at right angles with a horizontal plane surface, descends lower down than any other part, so that this part comes in contact with the plane surface, while the remaining