ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HAND. 510 as well as the close manner in which the carpal extremities of the metacarpal bones are im- pacted together, render lateral motion impos- sible ; in the fifth joint the forward or back- ward motion is somewhat more extensive, but this joint is equally limited with the others in lateral movement. The carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb enjoys motion forwards, backwards, inwards, and outwards, producing the movements of flexion and extension, abduction and ad- duction. The power of opposing the thumb to any of the fingers is due to the oblique direction of flexion in this joint: the bone moves forwards and inwards, passing through a line which would be concave inwards. This is by far the most extensive motion of the thumb, and it is by an excess of this motion that the dislocation of the metacarpal bone backwards is generally occasioned. Cruveil- hier observes that the weakness of the posterior ligament favours the occurrence of this lux- ation. I cannot, however, admit the weakness of this ligament; on the contrary, it appears to me to be the strongest of all the ligaments of this joint; which opinion, I find, is that of the accurate Weitbrecht. The motion of adduction is, on the other hand, the most limited, in consequence of the proximity of the second metacarpal bone; that of abduction is very extensive, and when car- ried too far may occasion luxation inwards. JOINTS OF THE FINGERS. 1. Metacarpophalangeal joints.—The first phalanges are articulated by an oval concave surface, with the rounded oblong heads of the inferior extremities of the metacarpal bones : it is remarkable that the long axis of the oval concavity of the phalanx has a transverse di- rection, while the long axis of the head of the metacarpal bone is directed from before back- wards, and consequently at right angles with the former; whence the great extent of lateral motion enjoyed by these joints. Each of these joints is strengthened by two lateral ligaments, of considerable strength, inserted into the tubercle behind the depression on each side of the head of the metacarpal bone; the point of insertion into the phalanx is anterior to this, and consequently the direc- tion of the lateral ligaments is downwards and forwards; as they descend, these ligaments spread out, and their anterior fibres become identified with the anterior ligament. A third ligament, the anterior ligament, or glenoid ligament of Cruveilhier, seems des- tined more to increase the extent of the pha- langeal articular concavity anteriorly, than to maintain the integrity of the joint or limit its motions. This ligament is, as Bichat expresses it, a thick and dense fibrous bundle, in shape half a ring, placed in front of the palmar sur- face of the head of the metacarpal bone, com- posed of transverse fibres which adhere in- teriorly to the anterior edge of the concavity on the phalanx, and on each side are identified with the lateral ligaments and the transverse ligaments by which the metacarpal bones are connected. If the ligaments and synovial membrane of this joint be cut all round close to their attachment to the head of the meta- carpal bone, and that bone be removed, the synovial capsule and ligaments remaining at- tached to the phalanx, a very clear idea of the relative positions of the ligaments may be formed. The synovial membrane will then appear protected on three sides by ligament; on the radial and ulnar side by the lateral ligaments, and in front the anterior ligaments, whilst posteriorly it is unprotected save by the sheath of the extensor tendon. In the metacaipo-phalangeal articulation of the thumb two sesamoid bones, developed in the substance of the anterior ligament, protect the joint in front. 2. Phalangeal joints.—These joints are all ginglymoid, the articular surfaces being pul- ley-like ; they are provided with lateral liga- ments similar to those of the metacarpopha- langeal joints, and also with anterior ligaments similarly disposed. Motions of the joints of the fingers.—In the phalangeal joints these motions are only flexion and extension; the former are con- siderably more extensive, and are favoured by the inferior insertion of the lateral ligaments being on a plane anterior to their superior insertion. In addition to flexion and exten- sion the metacarpophalangeal joints enjoy con- siderable lateral motion, which is due to the glenoid form of the phalangeal articular sur- face, and to the enarthrodial form which the joint derives from the extension of that arti- cular surface by the anterior ligament. (R. B. Todd.) HAND,ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE. Deviations from the normal condition of the different structures which enter into the composition of the hand are very numerous, and may be classed into those which are the result of, first, accident; second, disease; third, congenital malformation. I. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS, THE RESULT OF ACCIDENT. Fractures and luxations. ■— Simple frac- tures of the bones of the hand are seldom followed by any notable deformity; but lux- ations of these bones require from us some attention here. Luxation of the bones of the carpus.—The bones of the carpus are united to each other so solidly, and their movements seem so limited, that, without experience, we should be dis- posed to pronounce luxation of any of these bones impossible; nevertheless, the head of the os magnum may be dislocated from the cavity formed for it by the scaphoid and semi- lunar bones. The first range of the bones of the carpus is articulated with the bones of the second range in such a manner that slight gliding movements of flexion and extension of the hand are permitted, which augment a little the movements of flexion and extension of the hand upon the forearm, and add some- what, as Cruveilhier says, to the grace of the movements of this portion of the upper ex-