89 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. about one-sixth of the length of the internal ones. In a fish described by John Hunter,* of which the whole electrical organ was about five inches in length, the longest column was about one inch and a half, and the shortest about one-fourth of an inch in length. In the same fish the average diameter of each column was about two-tenths of an inch. In a fish from the Mediterranean, thirteen inches and a half in length, and about seven inches in breadth, (which, through the kindness of Dr. Allen Thomson, we have had an opportunity of examining in detail,) the length of the longest columns is one inch, and that of the shortest about three-tenths of an inch. Most of these columns are either irregular pentagons, or irregular hexagons; a few are nearly tetra- gonal. They are united to one another by short but strong fibres, and by a reticular expansion of tendinous threads spread through them. Their number varies considerably ac- cording to the age of the fish. Hunter con- jectured that a few new columns are added every year to the circumference of the organ. In one of the largest fish that has yet been particularly examined, which was four feet and a half in length, the number of columns in one electrical organ was 1182. Mr. Hunter found 470 in each organ in a fish of ordinary size. Mr. Hunter described each column as being divided into numerous distinct compart- ments by delicate membranous partitions, placed horizontally, at very short distances from each other. The interstices between them appeared to him to contain a fluid. He found the partitions in several places adhering to one another by bloodvessels; and all, throughout their whole extent, attached to the inside of the column by a fine cellular membrane. In a column of one inch in length, he reckoned 150 partitions, and it appeared to him that their number is the same within the same space in all the columns.f Hence, he thought it likely that " the increase in the length of a column, during the growth of the animal, does not enlarge the distance between each partition in proportion to that growth, but that new partitions are formed and added to the extre- mity of the column from the fascia." The partitions are covered with fine network of arteries, veins, and nerves. According to Hunter, " they are very vascular." He described the numerous arterial branches which ramify on the walls of the columns as " sending in- wards from the circumference all around, on each partition, small arteries which anastomose upon it, and passing also from one to the other, unite with the vessels of the adjacent parti- tions." The partitions themselves are so deli- cate as not to admit of being satisfactorily examined in the fresh fish : (all Hunter's obser- vations were made upon fish that had been preserved in spirits, by which, doubtless, the delicate membranes were rendered more opaque, and therefore more easily visible.) In point * Pl.il. Trans 1773, 481. t Desmotilins and Majenriie say that they found only seven or eight partitions in each column. Anat. des Syst. Nerv. ii. 378. of fact, Dr. Davy has never seen them in the course of the numerous dissections which he has made of the electrical organs in fish recently taken; whereas, in specimens sent hither by him, preserved in spirits, Dr. Allen Thomson and the writer of this article have satisfactorily ascertained their existence and structure as described by Hunter. Dr. Davy says, " when I have examined with a single lens, which magnifies more than 200 times, a column of the electrical organs, it has not exhibited any regular structure; it has appeared as a homo- geneous mass, with a few fibres passing into it in irregular directions, which were probably nervous fibres."* However, after having im- mersed the organs in boiling water, Dr. Davy has occasionally seen something like a lami- nated structure within the column. Rudolphi satisfied himself of the division of the columns by membranous partitions, and further, that each partition is supplied with a distinct nerve.-f- In a memoir on the comparative anatomy of the Torpedo, Gymnotus, and Silurus, Geoff'roy described! the columns as being filled with a semifluid matter composed of gelatine and albumen. A lar«e quantity of fluid enters into the composition of the general mass of the elec- trical organs. Dr. Davy has found that they lose more by drying than any other part of the fish—nearly 93 per cent.; while the soft parts in general, including the electrical organs, lose only 84.5 per cent,§ He believes that the fluids of the organs hold various substances in solution, but the exact nature and proportions of them have not been ascertained. We are indebted to the same indefatigable observer for an ac- count of the specific gravity of the electrical organs. He found it to be very low compared with that of the truly muscular parts of the fish,—namely, 1.020, to water as 1.0G0, while that of a part of the abdominal muscles of the same full-grown fish was 1.058, and of the dorsal muscles 1.065. In a fish eight inches long, five inches across the widest part, and which weighed 2065 grains entire, the electric organs together weighed 302 grains, the liver only 105 grains. No contraction has ever been seen in the electrical organs of living fish under the stimu- lus of the strongest excitants, not even under that of galvanism; so that, although what appear to be tendinous threads are spread amongst and over the columns, we have no reason to suppose that any muscular tissue enters into their composition. But, in all directions, they are exposed to the pressure of * Phil. Trans. 1832. 259. t Ahhandl. der Acad, der Wissensch. in Berlin. 1820. 224. t Ann. dn Mus. TvTo. 5. § The sma'lest torpedo employed hy Dr. Davy in his experiments weighed 410 grains, and con- tained only 48 grains of solid matter; its elec- trical organs weighed 150 grains, and contained only 14 grains of solid matter; yet this small mass gave sharp shocks, converted needles into magnets, affected distinctly the multiplier, and acted as a chemical agent. " A priori, how inconceivable that these effects could be so produced'."