495 GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. nal jugular vein, which lie in the order here enumerated. As the nerve issues from the lower part of the foramen lacerum it forms a small rounded chord, close to, but still quite separate from the par vagum, and is situated between the internal jugular vein and internal carotid artery. It now leaves the trunk of the par vagum, proceeds downwards, inwards, and forwards, passing in front of the internal carotid artery and behind the styloid muscles, and joins itself to the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. It runs at first along the lower margin of this muscle, and rests on the superior constrictor of the pharynx which separates it from the tonsil; it then mounts on the anterior surface of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and passes be- tween it and the stylo-glossus to reach the base of the tongue, upon which it is ultimately dis- tributed. Occasionally, instead of turning over the lower edge of the stylo-pharyngeus, it per- forates this muscle. In following the course here described, it forms a slight curve, the con- vexity of which looks downwards, and it sends off several branches, which are principally dis- tributed to the pharynx and isthmus of the fauces. These branches vary very considerably in size and in number in different subjects, but the general distribution of the nerve is in all cases nearly the same. When the branches are few in number, this is compensated for by their increased bulk, and when they are more numerous they are of diminished size. This nerve generally anastomoses with the par vagum within the cranium by a pretty distinct branch.* As the nerve lies within the foramen lacerum it presents two swellings or ganglia upon it, and gives off some small branches. The superior of these two ganglia is considerably smaller than the inferior, and has been termed die ganglion ju- gidareby J. Muller, (fig. 225). It is described by Mullerf as generally present, though small, placed upon the posterior or external side of the nerve, and situated at the cranial end of the foramen lacerum. It can only be distinctly seen after the dura mater has been removed, and the upper margin of the opening chiseled away. I have repeatedly observed this gan- glion jugulare in the human subject. In one case which I lately dissected, where it was comparatively large, very distinct, and pre- sented undoubtedly all the appearance of a true ganglion, it appeared to me, after careful examination, that this swelling does not include the whole of the nerve, but is confined, as Muller states, to the posterior filaments. These posterior filaments do not seem to differ other- wise in appearance from the anterior. This ganglion was first pointed out by Ehrenritter, and mentioned by Soemmerring on his autho- rity.J Very little attention seems to have been paid to this ganglion, so that when it was lately re-described by Muller,ยง it was supposed that * Op. cit. p. 114. t Handbuch der Physiologie des Menschen. Erster Band, p. 589. t Arnold in Tiedemann's Zeitschrift fur Physio- logie, vol. ii. p. 175, and J. Muller, in his Archiv. fur Anat. und Phys. &c. 1837. No. ii. p. 275. j> In Vergl. Jahresbericht Von 1833, Archiv. fur Anatomie und Physiol. 1834, p. 11. its existence in the human subject had been hitherto unknown.* Mayer, of Bonn, had, previous to this (1833), described two small swellings upon the root of the glosso-pharyn- geal in the ox, but he failed to detect any similar ganglion in the human species. No nervous filaments either leave or join that part of the trunk of the nerve upon which the gan- glion jugulare is placed. The inferior ganglion (ganglion petrosum, ganglion of Andersch) is considerably larger than the superior, is of an oblong shape, and includes all the filaments of the nerve. It is described by Anderschf as about five lines in length, and commencing about four lines below the place where the nerve perforates the dura mater. No doubt, if we include all that portion of the trunk of the nerve which appears to be somewhat increased in size, it may sometimes measure five lines, but the true gangliform enlargement is consi- derably less. As WutzerJ remarks, it is rarely found to exceed two lines in length. This gan- Natural size. Magn ified about four times. glion lies in a distinct depression in the pe- trous portion of the temporal bone, which Andersch terms receptaculum ganglioli petrosi. Some branches both proceed from and join that portion of the nerve occupied by this gan- glion petrosum. The most important of these is a small branch which proceeds from the ganglion into the tympanum (ramus tympani- cus nervi glosso-pharyngei; nerve of Jacobson). The course and distribution of this branch were partly known to Schmiedal, Andersch, Ehren- ritter, and Comparetti,|| but were more fully * I find that Wutzer, in his Monograph " De Corporis Humani Gangliorum Fabrica atque Usu," p. 92, after describing the inferior ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, says, * secundarium ganglion quod nonnumquam adesse Ehrenritter contendit mini non sub oculos cecidit." t If Andersch is not to be considered the disco- verer of this ganglion, it cannot be denied that he first gave a full and clear description of it. (Op. cit. p. 115.) Kilian (Op. cit. p. 30 and 75) con- tends that the existence of this ganglion was known to Winslow. In evidence of this he quotes the following sentence from his Exposit. Anatom. torn, iii. " les deux portions (nervus glosso-pharyngeus et nervus vagus) sont edroitement collees ensemble et communiquent de part et d'autre par des filamens qui grossissent un peu la petite portion (glosso- pharyngeal.)" | Op. cit. p. 91. ยง [This figure is taken from a dissection by Mr. Walker in the Webb-street School of Anatomy. The Editor is indebted for it to the kindness of his friend Mr. Grainger.] || Vide Muller's Archiv. fur Anat. und Physiol. &c. No. ii. 1837. p. 281.