ENTOZOA. 133 there is a similar aperture which forms the outlet of a vertically compressed sac situ- ated between the chyle-receptacles (see Trans- actions of the Zoological Society, plate 4, p. 381, pi. 41, figs. 17,18, d, g). In the Diplostomum volvens Nordmann supposes the aperture in question, h, to be the termination of a canal continued from the oviduct. Besides this canal the posterior appendage of the body is occupied by a sac of a corresponding form containing a milky fluid, i, i, and to which the term of chyle-receptacle is given by Nord- mann, as was previously done by Laurer to a corresponding cavity in the Amphisioma coni- cum. The nutritious contents of this canal would seem to exude through the parietes of the coecal extremities of the intestines, as no distinct aperture of communication is obvious. Two vessels, k, k, are continued on each side from the anterior and external part of the chyle receptacle; they extend forwards to the anterior third of the body, and are there broughtinto com- munication by a transverse vessel, which ex- tends across the dorsal aspect of the body. From the point of union of the transverse with the external lateral vessels,a vessel is continued for- ward on each side, appearing as the continuation of the external lateral one. These vessels, m, m, are reflected inward at the anterior angles of the body, and unite in the middle line to form the vessel, n, which may be regarded, according to Nordmann, as representing the arterial trunk, and which is continued to the posterior extremity of the body, distributing branches on each side throughout its whole length. Nord- mann observed a circulation of fluid in the vessels marked m, m, which was unaccom- panied by any pulsation, and which may there- fore be compared to the Fig. 82. cyclosisofthe nutrient fluids in the vessels of Polygas- trica, Polypi, and other Acrita, and is probably due to the action of vibratile cilia. In a few species of Pla- naria the mouth is terminal and anterior, as in the Distornata; these form the subgenus Prostoma of Professor Duges.* In the greater nu mber of these non- parasitic Sterelmintha the alimentarycanal commences from a cavity situated at the middle of the inferior sur- face of the body. A pro- boscis or suctorious tube (a, fig. 82), varying in length according to the species, is contained in this cavity, from which it can be pro- truded, and the mouth is situated in the form of a round pore at the extremity of this proboscis. The ac- tion of this tube is well dis- Dendritic digestive cavity, Planaria lactea. Duges, Annales des Sciences, 1828, p. 16. played when a hungry Planaria makes an attack upon a Nats ; it then wraps its flat body around its prey (seefig. 76,) and applies to it the extre- mity of its trumpet-shaped sucker ; the red- blood of the little Anellide is seen to dis- appear from the part in contact with the sucker; and if the body of the Nais be broken in the conflict, the Planaria directs the extremity of the proboscis to the torn and bleeding surface. After a meal of this kind the digestive canals of the Planaria are displayed by the red colour of their contents, like the corresponding parts of the Liver-fluke when filled with bile, and they greatly resemble the latter in structure; instead of two canals, however, three are con- tinued from the base of the proboscis; one of these is central (6), and passes upwards to the anterior extremity of the body, distributing its vvide coeca on either side; the other two (c, c) descend, almost parallel to one another, and give off their ccecal processes chiefly from the outer margin, as in the Distoma. The Plunarice are, equally with the parasitic Trematoda, de- void of an anus: and the remains of Poly- gastric infusories swallowed by them have been seen to be regurgitated by the proboscis. Mi- nute nutrient vessels are continued from the extremities of the intestinal cceca, and form a very fine cutaneous network, which communi- cate with a mesial and dorsal canal and two lateral vessels, as in the Diplostomum. Some species of the Trematode Entozoa are infested by parasitic Polygastnca which belong to the Monads: Nordmann observed some brown corpuscles by the sides of the alimen- tary canal of a Diplostdnium, which contained minute particles in continual and lively motion. On crushing the corpuscles between plates of glass an immense concourse of the moving atoms escaped : they were smaller than the Monas atomos of Miiller, of an oval form, and of a clear yellow colour; their movements were very singular: they whirled rapidly round on their axis, then darted forward in a straight line, whirled round again, and again darted forward. When we consider that the Diplos- tomum itself does not exceed a quarter of a line in length, and that the aqueous humour of a single eye serves as the sphere of existence to hundreds of individuals, what views does the fact of the parasites of so minute an Ento- zoon open of the boundless and inexhaustible field of the animal creation ! Acanthocephala.—The worms of this order, although in external form, in the development of the tegumentary and muscular system, and above all in their dioecious generation, they ap- proach very closely the Nematoid Worms, yet preserve the distinguishing character of the Sterelminthoid class in the structure of the digestive organs. In the Echinorhynclius gigas the mouth is an extremely minute pore, situated on a projectile armed proboscis, the structure of which we have already described. From its posterior part are continued two long cylindrical canals (e, e, Jigs. 83,84) which ad- here closely to the muscular fibres by their outer side, and project on the opposite side into the triangular cavity (/i, fig. 84) left between the