ENTOZOA. 122 Fig. 66. Diplostomum volvens in the eye of a Perch. parasite, which sometimes exists in such pro- digious numbers, that the cavity of the eyeball is almost exclusively filled by them. They not only infest the vitreous but also the aqueous humours, and have been found in the choroid gland. All the species of Diplostomum are very small, seldom exceeding a sixth part of a line in length. They resemble the genus Distoma, and present some affinity to the Cercaria, which infest the fresh-water Snails; but they have characters peculiar to themselves which entitle them to rank as a distinct genus; of these the principal external one is the addi- tional sucker developed on the ventral aspect of the body, as compared with Distoma, whence Nordmann calls the genus Diplosto- mum, though Diplo-cott/lus would be the more appropriate designation, since, as before ob- served, the ventral depressions are simply organs of adhesion, and have no communication with the alimentary canal. Besides the suckers the Diplostomum has an anterior mouth f a, jig. 81), as in the Distoma. The first or anterior sucker (b,Jig. 81) is twice the size of the mouth; and the second (c,jig. 81) is again double the size of the former. As the figure shows the vessels from the dorsal aspect, these suckers can only be seen in outline. The animal has great power over them and can contract the parenchyma of the body surrounding them, so as to make them project like rudimental extremities from the ventral surface. It has been already observed that no species of the Acanthocephalous order of Entozoa has hitherto been found in the Human body, the illustration of this form of the Sterelmintha will therefore be confined to the section treat- ing of the general anatomy of the Entozoa. The Class Calelmintha contains several species of Entozoa which are obnoxious to man ; of these may be first mentioned the Medina or Guinea-worm (Filaria Medinensis, Gmel.) This species is developed in the sub- cutaneous cellular texture, generally in the lower extremities, especially the feet, sometimes in the scrotum, and also, but very rarely, be- Fig. 67. neath the tunica conjunctiva of the eye. It appears to be endemic in the tropical regions of Asia and Africa. The length of this worm varies from six inches, to two, eight, or twelve feet; its thick- ness from half to two-thirds of a line; it is of a whitish colour in general, but some- times of a dark brown hue. The body is round and sub- equal, a little attenuated to- wards the anterior extremity. In a recent specimen of small size, we have observed that the orbicular mouth was surround- ed by three slightly raised swellings, which were conti- nued a little way along the body and gradually lost; the body is traversed by two lon- gitudinal lines corresponding to the intervals of the two well- marked fasciculi of longitu- dinal muscular fibres. The caudal extremity of the male is obtuse, and emits a single spiculum; in the female it is acute and suddenly inflected. The Filaria Medinensis, as has just been observed, is oc- casionally located in the close vicinity of the organ of vision; but another much smaller spe- cies of the same Genus of Nematoidea infests the cavity of the eyeball itself. The Filaria oculi humani was detected by Nordmann in the Liquor Morgagni of the capsule of a crystalline lens of a man who had undergone the operation of extraction for ca- taract under the hands of the Baron von Grafe. In this in- stance the capsule of the lens had been extracted entire, and upon a careful examination half an hour after extraction there wereobserved in the fluid above-mentioned two minute and delicate Filaria coiled up in the form of a ring. One of these worms, when examined microscopically, presented a rupture in the mid- dle of its body, probably occasioned by the ex- tracting needle, from which rupture the intesti- nal canal was protruding; the other was entire and measured three-fourths of a line in length ; it presented a simple mouth without any appa- rent papillse, (as are observed to characterize the large Filaria which infests the eye of the Horse,) and through the transparent integument could be seen a straight intestinal canal, sur- rounded by convolutions of the oviducts, and terminating at an incurved anal extremity. The third species of Filaria enumerated among the Entozoa Hominis is the Filaria Filaria Medinensis.