15 DIGESTION. other saccharine juices, procured from certain tropical plants, are employed for the same pur- pose. The fermented liquors of our own coun- try generally contain a considerable quantity of mucilaginous and saccharine matter, which still remains undecomposed, and which is directly nutritive; but fully fermented wines are only indirectly so, as aiding the digestive powers by their stimulating effect on the stomach. It is generally admitted, that the operation of alcohol, when properly diluted, and when taken in moderate quantity, is favourable to the health of most individuals who are engaged in laborious pursuits, and have occasion to exert the full powers of the system. But the almost irresistible temptation to excess, and the fatal consequences which thence ensue, both to our physical and our mental constitution, have long been the subject of deep regret and severe re- prehension, both to the physician and the mo- ralist, and it may be asserted, that of all the gifts which providence has bestowed on the human race, there is none which, according to the present state of society, would appear of such dubious advantage as the knowledge of the process by which one of the most nutritive articles of diet is converted into one of the deadliest poisons. We have now to notice a class of substances very generally employed in diet, which are not in themselves nutritive, but are added to our food, for the purpose of rendering it more agree- able to the palate. These are the various arti- cles styled condiments; they may be classed under the two heads of salts and spices. There is so very general a disposition among all classes of people in all countries to relish sapid food, that we are led to conceive that there must be some final cause for it, independent of the mere gratification of the senses, or that this gratifica- tion is made subservient to some more import- ant purpose. With respect to what is termed common salt, the muriate of soda, we observe, in many cases, the same relish for it among the lower animals as in man. We have well au- thenticated accounts given us, by various tra- vellers and naturalists, of the extraordinary efforts which are made by the beasts of prey which inhabit the great African and American continents, to obtain it.* We can scarcely therefore doubt that it must be, in some way or other, essential to the well-being of the animal; but whether it directly promotes the process of chymification, or whether it be taken into the stomach, for the purpose of being transmitted to the blood, and thus furnishing to the system the portion of saline matter which is always present in the animal fluids, must be considered as entirely conjectural.f The other division of condiments, the spices, are very numerous, and are derived from vari- ous sources, but are chiefly of vegetable origin. They are generally of a stimulating nature, and * Among these we may select the account given us by Mr. Hodgson, in his interesting letters from North America, vol. i. p. 240, 1, note. t Haller, El. Phys. xix. 3, 11 ; Fordyce on Digestion, p. 55. such as may be supposed to act, in the first in- stance, on the nervous system. Some of them increase the action of the heart and arteries, and some of them augment the secretions or excretions, but they differ essentially from alcohol, in not producing any thing resembling intoxication and the subsequent exhaustion. Thus they are much less injurious to the con- stitution, even when taken to excess, and are seldom liable to any stronger imputation than that of being useless. They afford some of the most remarkable examples of the effect of habit on the system, in changing or modifying our .original perceptions, for it is very generally found that those substances to which we be- come, in process of time, the most attached, are such as, in the first instance, were not only perfectly indifferent, but even positively dis- gusting. Before we quit this part of the subject it remains for us to say a few words respecting the class of substances which are properly termed medicaments. The medicaments are nearly related to the condiments in their action on the system, but with this difference, that they are not only disagreeable to the palate, but are, for the most part, incapable of being re- conciled to it by habit. But there is in fact no exact line of demarcation between them ; many of the articles which are usually consi- dered as condiments, being not unfrequently used in medicine, and some of what are gene- rally regarded as the most active and nauseous medicines, being employed by some individuals as agreeable condiments. Both these classes of substances appear to differ in one essential particular from what are more properly re- garded as articles of diet, that while it is essen- tial to the operation of the latter, that they should be decomposed, and probably resolved into their constituent elements, the specific effect of the former seems to depend upon their acting on the stomach in their entire state. Nearly connected to this class of substances, and indeed differing from it only in degree, are the articles that are usually termed poisons. The term may, however, be regarded as entirely a popular designation, for as there is no active medicine which may not immediately destroy life by an excessive or improper administra- tion, so there are no substances, among those which are usually considered as poisonous, which may not, under certain circumstances, prove valuable medical agents. III. An account of the changes which the food experiences in the process of digestion.— We now proceed to the consideration of the third subject which we proposed for our in- quiry, the nature of the change which the food undergoes during the process of digestion. In prosecuting this inquiry we shall consider in succession the various processes by which the aliment, after being received into the mouth, is brought into the state of chyle. These changes may be reduced essentially to three; the me- chanical division of the food, as effected by the operations of maceration, mastication, and tri- turation; the conversion of the alimentary mass into chyme, by the action of the gastric juice;