337 FCETUS. size, together with a portion of the capsule or hull which surrounds them, were found lodged in the urethra, about three-fourths of an inch from its termination ; they were so situated as completely to obstruct the passage, and a small opening had been formed immediately behind them in the urethra, through which some of the contents of the bladder had been infused into the cellular tissue, and extended to the scrotum, producing inflammation and gangrene, and so causing the child's death. The contents' of the abdomen appeared perfectly natural, except the colon sinistram or descending colon, which was found to be entirely destitute of the sigmoid flexure; the gut passed along the left lumbar and through the iliac regions in nearly a straight line to the neck of the bladder, into which, after making an abrupt but imperfect curve, and being sud- denly contracted in its dimensions, it was in- serted just behind the base of the prostate gland. The aperture which united the gut and bladder into one common receptacle for their respective contents was of sufficient capacity to admit a large-sized goose-quill; through this aperture the urine found a ready egress into the intestine, where, becoming united with the contents of that receptacle, it was forced back into the bladder, and finally excluded through the urethra. The space between the perineum and the termination of the intestine was occupied by a soft fatty substance, but there was not the slightest vestige of a gut.* The subjoined woodcut represents the parts of one half the natural size when merely in- flated. Fig. 160. a, the penis, b, the bladder, c, the colon. We have given the above in detail, not merely on account of the remarkable nature of the anatomical deviation, but as connected with the still more interesting fact, that life was under such circumstances sustained, and healthy defecation accomplished for nearly a year after birth. M. Roux of Brignolles operated success- fully in May, 1833, on a new-born child, in whom the same malformation appears to have existed ; no trace of anus could be discovered * American Journal of the Medical Sciences, No. xxx. p. 404. vol. n. in the perineum, and the rectum terminated at the urethra, through which some faecal matter was discharged ; the infant lived, and enjoyed good health.* Rickets.—Deformities of the bones arising from rickets have been occasionally observed both in the child at birth and in the immature foetus ; but the instances have been few in number ; the writer has never had an opportu- nity of examining a case of the kind, but they have been described by authors of credit. Pinel has given an account of a ricketty foetus of eight months, in which the deformity was chiefly confined to the lower extremities.f ChaussierJ examined another at the Maternite at Paris, in which there was distortion of the back and thorax, with softness and flexibility of the bones. Several other writers of respect- ability have described this affection.§ Jaundice.—The fcetus in utero, as well as the child at. birth, has been found exhibiting all the characters of true jaundice. In the case of a lady, related by Duges,|| who was herself liable to frequent attacks of this disease, and had biliary calculi, all her children were born dead, and strongly coloured by jaundice. It is not, however, always fatal to the child affected with it before birth. Cirronosis.—Under this name^T Professor Lobstein of Strasburg has described** an affec- tion of the foetus in which the serous or trans- parent membranes, as the peritoneum, pleura, pericardium, and arachnoid, were stained of a strong yellow colour, which in some instances was found to pervade also the brain, spinal marrow, and the great sympathetic nerves. The cause of this peculiar colour is altogether a matter of doubt, but it differs from jaundice in not affecting the parenchymatous cellular tissue of internal organs, the subcutaneous cellular tissue, nor the skin, and it is found so early as the third and fourth months, a period at which the bile is not as yet secreted. For a more ample account of this affection see the article Cirronosis. Accidental morbid tissues observed in the fa'tus.—Some of these have been already inci- dentally noticed under different heads in the present article, but it appears desirable to * See Medical Gazette for June 28th, 1834 ; or the American Medical Journal, No. xxx. p. 531, where there is an account of the mode in which the operation was performed. t -La Medeeine eclairee par les Sciences Phy- siques, torn. i. p. 111. | Diet, des Sci. Med. torn. xvi. p. 67. § Loder, Index Prcparator. &c. Mosquse, 1823, sec. ii. D; Sartorius, Rachit. Congenit. Obs. 4to. Lipsiae, 1826, cum tabulis ; Romberg, De Rachit. Congenit. Berolinae, 1817, cum tabulis; Otto, Seltene Ueobachtung, 1 Sam. tab. i. fig. 1. ; Soem- mering, Abbildung. u. lieschreib. einiger Missge- burten, p. 30. pi. xi; Uordenave, Mem. de Mathem. et Phys. torn. iv. p. 545 ; Lepelletier, Maladie Scrofuleuse, Paris, 1830; Henckel, Abhandl. Chi- rurg. Oper. Th. ii. p. 14 : Glisson de Rachitide, p. 178. || Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Prat. t. viii. p. 301. ^ From xippoc, yellow, and vocroc, a disease. ** In the Repertoire Generale d'Anatomie, &Ci No. i. p. 141, and plate iv. 7,