309 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. more remarkable, has been reported by Mr. Bishop,* in which the functions of the fifth nerve seemed altogether obliterated by the pressure of a diseased growth within the cranium, and yet the patient saw distinctly to the last, the only derangement which oc- curred in the function of vision being the loss of the power of distinguishing colours, which appears sufficiently accounted for by a certain degree of pressure exerted by the tumour upon the optic nerve. Magendie endeavours to support his views upon this and other points connected with the properties of the nerve by reference to a case reported by Serres, which appears very inadequate, and will be discussed by-and-bye. Influence of the fifth nerve on hearing.— The great affinity between the sense of hearing and that of touch renders it more easy to conceive how hearing might be excited through the medium of the fifth nerve. As we have seen that the ocular nerve in certain animals is a branch of the fifth nerve, so is the auditory. Among the cartilaginous fishes there are several instances in which this occurs. The origin of the auditory nerve from the fifth in fishes was first announced by Scarpa,-)- and by him sup- posed to apply to fish generally. This view is combated by Treviranus:J it is admitted in part by Serres; he states that in osseous fishes the auditory nerve is united at its in- sertion with the fifth; in cartilaginous fishes, that thp auditory is sometimes confounded with th^ fifth, sometimes separated distinctly enough, as in the raia'clavata. From his own observations the writer would say, that in the bony fishes the two nerves cannot be said to be united or to arise the one from the other, but only to have a common superficial attach- ment to the medulla oblongata; and from the analogy of the same nerves in the higher classes of animals, he would not admit, without further proof, a common superficial attachment as establishing identity of ultimate connection with the encephalon. As to the cartilaginous fishes, it appears to him that Serres has fallen into an error with regard to the connection of the auditory nerve. It appears to the writer that the fifth and the auditory are con- founded in the raia clavata as plainly as in any other individual of the class; the posterior ganglionic fasciculus of the fifth and the auditory nerve form one trunk for a distance of some lines after leaving the medulla ob- longata ; they are at all events enclosed within the same sheath: § but whether they are to be regarded as branches of a common trunk or not, it is difficult to decide. The weight of naalogy is certainly opposed to a conclusion * Medical Gazette, vol. xvii. t De Audita et Olfactu. 1 Journ. Compl. § Serres seems to have overlooked the fact that there exist two ganglionic fasciculi in the raia clavata ; that he has assumed the anterior fasci- culus to be the fifth, and described the posterior, with which the auditory is connected, as the auditory and facial nerves : the error will be manifest upon tracing the distribution of the fasciculus. in the affirmative; and, though this were ad- mitted, a difference between the auditory and the other branches of the fifth (as supposed) must still be admitted, inasmuch as the auditory separates from the nerve before the occurrence of the ganglion, and has not itself a ganglion. On the other hand the auditory may be se- parated from the rest of the nerve, after the division of the common investing membrane, with little or no laceration of fibres. Still it may be asked why, if they be distinct nerves, are they united into one trunk? The opinion that the fifth nerve holds an important in- fluence over the sense of hearing derives support from the circumstance, that in most, if not all, the cases of disease of the nerve, the sense of hearing becomes impaired, though not obliterated. The last question proposed to be considered with reference to the functions of the fifth nerve is its connection with nutrition. The opinion that the nerve controls the nutrition of the parts which it supplies has been advocated by Magendie, more particularly with regard to the eye. It has been already stated that we are indebted to this writer for information in regard to results of the division of the entire trunk of the nerve within the cranium. Of these the most prominent is the entire loss of sensibility on the same side of the face, and in regard to the eye especially, loss of sensibility in the conjunc- tiva, upon which the most irritating chemical agents then produce no impression. These immediate effects of the section were followed by others not less remarkable: on the next day the sound eye was found inflamed by the ammonia, which had been applied to it, while the other presented no trace of inflam- mation. Other changes, however, supervene. The cornea of the eye of the side on which the section is made, twenty-four hours after- wards begins to become opaque; after seventy- two it is much more so ; and five or six days after it is as white as alabaster. On the second day the conjunctiva becomes red, inflames, and secretes a puriform matter. About the second day the iris also becomes red and in- flames, and false membranes are formed upon its surface. Finally the cornea ulcerates, the humours of the eye escape, and the globe contracts into a small tubercle. In endeavouring to ascertain the cause of these changes, Ma- gendie, on the supposition that they might be owing either to the continued exposure of the eye to the air or to the want of the lachrymal secretion, divided the portio dura in one rabbit, the effect of which is to destroy the power of closing the eyelids; and from others he cut out the lachrymal gland; but in neither case did opacity of the cornea suc- ceed. The sequence of the effects mentioned after the section of the nerve might naturally lead us to infer that the loss of nervous in- fluence gives rise to them. But such is not the inference drawn by Magendie, nor indeed can it be admitted : absence or subtraction of an influence cannot be directly the cause of an alteration in the condition of an object