ANIMAL HEAT. 660 hands, and a degree and a half in the feet. This temperature of the air may be regarded as a mean, or intermediate between heat and cold, and may be termed temperate (61° to 62° F.). It was superior to that of the water by a degree R., and yet the water of the bath, after immersion in it for no longer a time than twenty minutes, had reduced the temperature of the body according to its parts from half a degree to a degree and a half R. Effects of external temperature upon an isolated part of the body.—Under this head let us examine, 1st, the extent of the effect, and 2nd, its influence on other parts. The facts we shall borrow from the researches just quoted, those namely of myself and M. Centil. The hand, at 29° R. (98° F.) having been kept immersed in a tub of water cooled down to + 4° R. (41°F.), in all during twenty minutes, five minutes after it had been taken put of the water, marked no higher a tempera- ture than 10° R. (55° F.) This experiment shows how rapid and extensive, and how much beyond what could have been anticipated, may be the refrigerating effects of cold water applied to an extremity. Another not less remarkable result is the singular slowness with which the temperature of an extremity is regained, although exposed to the gentle warmth of the air. The hand in the above experiment, after the lapse of twenty-five minutes from the time it was removed from the water, was still no higher than 16i° R. (69° F.), and after the expiration of an hour and a half it was only 24£° R. (87° F.). The foot, in the same cir- cumstance-, gave nearly analogous results. In a number of experiments of the same nature as the last, where one hand was plunged in water cooled down by ice, the other hand, which was not subjected to the action of the cold bath, lost nearly 5° R. in temperature. It is therefore apparent, 1st, that partial chills, or the exposure of individual parts to low temperatures, may be and are felt very extensively even when the cold is not very severe ; 2nd, that the chilling of a single part, such as the hand or the foot, may cause a loss of temperature in all the other parts of the body, even far beyond what could have been pre- sumed as likely or possible. These facts give a key to the right understanding of the immense influence which partial chills are capable of exercising on the state of the general health Of the effects of partial heating.—The hand being immersed in water heated to the tem- perature of 34° R. (109° F.),rose one degree of the same scale, and the temperature of other remote parts not immediately exposed to the influence of heat were found to have risen in a corresponding degree. Whence follows this axiom,—that we cannot either raise or lower the temperature of any one part of the bodu without all the other parts of the frame being affected, and suffering a corresponding rise or Jail in temperature, more or less according to circumstances. We may further presume from the comparison of these facts, that the body and its parts are liable to variations of temperature towards either extremity of the scale from the mean, much more considerable than are generally imagined. This latter fact will appear very evidently from the other inquiries which are now to engage our atten- tion. Effects of an excessively high or excessively low external temperature upon the temperature of the body.—Hitherto we have only considered the changes in the temperature of the body pro- duced by moderate degrees of external heat and cold. We now pass on to the examination of the effects caused by extreme external tempera- tures, and first of those that follow from excessive heat; designating by excessive heat any temperature that surpasses that of the human body. On a summer's day, the temperature of the air being 37°, 77 c. (100° F.), Franklin observed that the tempera- ture of his own body was nearly 35°, 55 c. (96° F.). This fact, which is perhaps the first of the kind noted, is highly deserving of atten- tion. It proves that man, and by analogy otheranimals,havea power of keeping their tem- perature inferior to that of the air. As in the ob- servation quoted there is no means of knowing what effect the excessive external temperature had produced upon the temperature of the observer, recourse must be had to other facts. In numerous experiments made in England by Dr. Fordyce and his friends, and subsequently by Dr. Dobson, in which these experimenters exposed themselves to very high temperatures, which on some occasions exceeded that of boiling water, the heat of the body was never observed to rise more than one, two, three, or four degrees of Fahrenheit's scale at the utmost. As in these experiments the object especially proposed was to determine the degree of external temperature which the body could bear, all the attention which would have been desirable was not given to determine the tem- perature of the body before, during, and after the experiments. This is an omission which is common to the experiments of For- dyce and Dobson. The highest temperature of the body noted by Dr. Dobson is 102° F., but he does not mention the heat before the experi- ment, nor does he notice the rate of cooling subsequent to its termination. The highest temperatures of the human body exposed to excessive heats ever observed, were remarked by Messrs. Delaroche and Berger in their own persons. The temperature of M. Delaroche being 56° 56 c. (98° F.) increased 5° of the centigrade scale, by remaining exposed in a chamber the temperature of which was 80° c. (176° F.). M. Berger, whose temperature was the same as that of M. Delaroche, gained 4°c. by remaining for sixteen minutes in the hot chamber at 87° c. (188°, 5 F.). These experiments are liable to this objection,—that the temperature was taken in the mouth in an atmosphere of much higher temperature, which might have some influence in raising the ther- mometer. To arrive at conclusions against which no kind of objection could be raised, Messrs. Delaroche and Berger exposed them- selves in succession in a box, out of which they could pass their head ; the hot air or vapour of