404 GELATIN. undulatory movement of the whole body, a mode of progression which in Thethys is mate- rially assisted by the membranous expansion of the mantle placed around the anterior part of the body, which forms a broad veil, and from the muscular fibres contained within it, must necessarily be an important agent in swim- ming. Particular secretions.—Many of the Gaste- ropoda, in addition to the secretions which have been mentioned, furnish others adapted to peculiar circumstances, and produced from special organs. In the Snail and the Slug tribes a slimy mucus is furnished in great abundance from an organ which has been denominated the " sac of the viscosity ;" this is a membranous bag sur- rounding the pericardium, which when opened is found to be divided internally by delicate septa arising from its walls ; from this proceeds a capacious duct, which follows the course of the rectum, to which it is intimately united, to open externally in the neighbourhood of the respiratory aperture. The viscid secretion of this gland spreading over the surface of the foot is most probably an assistant in progres- sion, causing it to adhere more intimately to the surfaces over which the animal crawls. Aplysia furnishes three distinct fluids issuing from different parts of the body. The first is a glairy mucus, which exudes in considerable quantities from the surface of the mantle, espe- cially when the creature is irritated. The se- cond i- a whitish liquor, which is thick and acrid, and has been reputed venomous; it is emitted in very small quantities, but its smell is strong and highly nauseous: the gland which produces it is a little reniform mass placed near the vulva, close to which is the orifice of its excretory canal. Blainville looks upon this as the representative of a urinary apparatus, but it does not appear to exist in all the species, and is never emitted except when the animal is tor- mented. The third secretion is much more abundant than the other two, and is generally of a beau- tiful lake colour, except in Aplysia citrina, in which it is yellow. It is contained in a spongy substance, which occupies all those portions of the little mantle or operculum to which the shell does not extend. All the areolae of this tissue are filled with a purple matter, the colour of which is so intense, that when it is expressed it has a black violet hue, but when mixed with a large quantity of water, imparts to it the co- lour of port wine. This colouring fluid seems to exude through the skin of the mantle, no ex- cretory duct having been found specially ap- propriated to its escape : it is apparently pro- duced from a triangular glandular mass situated in the base of the mantle. Several speeies of Murex secrete a similar fluid, which, like the ink of the cuttle-fish, serves as a defence from attack; in all cases it is expelled with force, and in such abundance as to colour the water around to a considerable distance. There is a species of Limax, (Limax nocti- lucus,)described by M. Orbigny,which produces a phosphorescent secretion capable of emitting a light of considerable brilliancy. The luminous organ is a small disc of a greenish colour by day-light, soft in texture, and slightly contractile. The light is only visible when the creature is expanded and in motion. The disc is always covered with a greenish mucus, which, if wiped off, is speedily renewed. It is found to be connected with the generative organs, and ap- pears to be principally useful during the season of love. BIBLIOGRAPHY.—Swammerdam, Biblia Naturae seu Historia Jnsectorum, t'ol. 1737. Cuvier, G. Lecon9 d'Anatomie Comparee, 8vo. 1799. Ibid. Memoires pour servir a l'Histoire et I'Anatomie des Mollusques, 4to. 1817. Be Blainville, de l'Orga- nization des Animaux, on Principes d'Anatomie Comparee, 8vo. 1822. Belle Chiaje, Memorie sulla storia e notomia degli animali senza vertebre del Regno di Napoli, Ferussac, Histoire des Mollus- ques terrestres et fluviatiles, fol. Spallanxani, Opuscoli di Fisica animale e vegetabile, 1776. Reaumur, De la formation ct de l'accroisse- ment des coquilles des animaux tant terrestres qu'aquatiques, in the Memoires de l'Acad. des Sciences, 1709. He continued the subject in the same work for 1716, under the title of Eclaircisse- mens des quelques difficultes sur la formation et l'accroissement des coquilles. Hatchett, on the chemical Composition of Shells, Phil. Trans. 1799- 1800. Beaudant, Memoire sur la structure des parties solides des Mollusques, Annales du Museum, torn. xvi. p. 66. Weiss, M. Sur la progression des Gasteropodes Terrestres, Journ. de Physique de Rozier, An. i. p. 410. Lamarck, Systeme des Ani- maux sans Vertebras, 7 vol. 8vo. 1815-1822. Har- derus, Examen Anatomicum cochlear terrestris do- miportse, Basileas, 1679. ( T. Ri/mer Jones.) GELATIN (Fr. gelatine; Germ. Leim. Gallerte). This term is applied to an im- portant principle obtained by boiling certain animal substances in water, and filtering or straining the solution, which, if sufficiently concentrated, gelatinises, or concretes into a translucent tremulous mass on cooling, which may be again liquefied and gelatinised by heat and cold. Many varieties of gelatin occur in commerce, of which glue is perhaps the most important: it is obtained by boiling the refuse pieces of skin and hide, and the scrapings and clippings from the tan-yard, in a sufficient quantity of water, till a sample taken out of the boiler forms, on cooling, a stiff jelly; the solution is then strained whilst hot, and run into coolers, where it concretes, and is afterwards cut by a wire into slices, which are dried upon nets. Membranes, tendons, cartilage, horn-shavings, and other similar sub- stances also yield a jelly, which, however, is less stiff and binding than the former, espe- cially when obtained from young animals: size is a jelly of this description. Isinglass, which consists of several parts of the entrails of fish, and especially the sound, &c. of the sturgeon, yields a very pure and tasteless jelly, which is chiefly used for the table; the jelly of calves' feet and hartshorn-shavings is some- what similar. As jelly cannot be extracted by cold water, and as we have no direct evidence of its existence in the various substances from which