914 INSECTA. The pro-thorax, as we have stated, is com- posed of four sub-segments, which on its upper surface, or pro-notum, are generally confluent, more particularly in Coleoptera, and form a smooth, uniform, and often very broad surface. In shape, the pro-notum is usually more or less quadrate and convex, with its sides arched and dilated. In many species, as in some families of Coleoptera, Orthoptera, and Homoptera, the pro-notum is larger than the corresponding part of any segment of the body, being consi- derably broader and longer than the head. This is the case more especially in those in- sects which are much employed in burrowing, as in Gfyllotalpa, Geotrupida, Copridte, and Silphida. Sometimes, as in the Cercopkte, it is enormously enlarged. In Membracisjolidta it is developed in the median line into an ele- vated crest like that of a helmet, which is not only extended forwards so as completely to conceal the head, but also laterally and back- wards over the whole body. In others of the same family, as in Ledra, it resembles an acute triangle, its sides being developed into two ob- tuse processes, while it is elongated backwards like an acute spine, which completely covers the abdomen. In other instances, as in Dynas- tidce, (Jig. 333,) it is developed into a strong horn or process, which is as long as the whole body. In each of these instances, the abnormal form and size depend either upon the exces- sive development of the whole of the sub- segments, as in Gryllotalpa, or upon one or more of them, as in Dynustes, since in those species in which the parts of the pro-notum are all nearly equally developed, and are of moderate size, their lines of separation are very distinctly marked, as in the common green grasshopper, Acrida viridissima. The pro-sternum, or under .surface of the pro-thorax, is considerably shorter than the pro-notum. In Dyticus circumflexus (fig. 384 A), the species selected by Audouin Fig. 384. A, under-surface of the first segment of the thorax or pro-sternum of Dyticus circumflexus, (Audouin); 2 g, pro-sternum; 2 f, episternum ; 2 h, epimeron ; 2 s, ante-furca or ento-thorax. for the purpose of illustrating the anatomy of the thorax in Coleoptera, it is divided into three distinct pieces. The sternum, or largest piece, (2 g,) is situated in the middle line, and is of a triangular form. It is extended on each side, at the anterior part of the segment, into two processes, which articulate at their ex- tremities by a distinct suture with the produced margins of the pro-notum. Posteriorly to these it is developed in the median line into a spine or crest, on each side of which it is hollowed out to form part of the acetubula, into which the coxae of the anterior legs are inserted. External to each acetabulum is a broad and somewhat triangular-shaped plate, the episternum (2/). This part is united by suture at its anterior margin to the extended part of the sternum, by its superior border to the dilated margin of the pro-notum, and by its posterior to the epimeron. It is a very distinct piece, and does not enter at all into ihe formation of the acetabulum, as it appears to do on a cursory examination. The third piece, the epimeron (2 h), is that which is always connected with the coxa, or basial joint of the leg. In this species it is a narrow plate, situated posteriorly to the episternum, and forms the posterior margin of the sternal surface of the pro-thorax. At its sternal end it has a short process, that forms the outer margin of the acetabulum, and articulates both with the sternum and episternum. It is probable that a portion of this process is the proper trochantin of the leg on each side, since the part, which has been described by Audouin as the tro- chantin in the meso- and meta-thoracic seg- ments, has not been delineated in his drawing of the pro-thoracic. In Dyticus marginatis there is a mark upon the process which resem- bles a suture, and which still further induces us to believe that this part is the analogue of the trochantin. Within the cavity of the pre- thorax, extending upwards from their attach- ment to the pro-sternum, are two bony rami, which at their inferior extremity are developed into two rounded plates (2 s), that form a col- lar, or leave a circular hole between them for the passage of the spinal cord. They constitute the ante:furca, the ento-thorax of Audouin. These are the parts that enter into the formation of the pro-thorax, exclusive of the anterior pair of legs, the only appendages of this segment. Fig. 385. Part of the meso-thorax. ( Audouin.) A, meso-sternum; 3 a, praescutum ; 3 b, scutum ; 3 c, scutellum; 3 d, post-scutellum ; 3 e, parapte- ron; 3 g, meso-sternum ; 3/, episternum ; 3 h, epi- meron ; 3 s, medifurca, or ento-thorax. The meso-thorax, (jig. 385,) or third segment of the body, is usuaily less developed in this order than the pro-thorax, with which it is freely articulated by a strong membrane. It is, as its name implies, the middle portion of the tho- rax, and in most instances its division into four sub-segments is distinctly marked on its dorsal