608 HEART. Harvey and some of the older anatomists ob- served the movements of the venae cava to continue in some of the lower animals after the auricles had ceased to move. The apex of the ventricles frequently remains longer contractile than the rest of the ventricle. Haller suggested that this might depend on the remaining blood gravitating to the apex, and there acting as a stimulant. Duration of contract Mitt/ after death.—In the cold-blooded animals the heart may be made to contract fourteen, twenty, thirty-four hours, or even longer after death. In warm- blooded animals the heart remains contractile for a much shorter period after death than in cold-blooded animals. Haller found the heart contractile in a warm-blooded animal in one case four hours after death, and in another seven hours. He sometimes observed it to cease before the vermicular motion of the intes- tines. Wepfer found it irritable in a dog six hours after death. Nysten, who attended par- ticularly to this subject, found in one of his experiments on the human subject, that the ventricles refused to contract upon the applica- tion of galvanism one hour after decapitation, while the auricles continued contractile for seven hours five minutes after death.* In ano- ther case the right auricle was still contractile eight hours after death ;f and in a subsequent case which he relates, it remained contractile in the neighbourhood of the entrance of the supe- rior cava sixteen hours and a half after death.J In the Mammifera, Nysten found that the left ventricle often refused to contract thirty minutes after death ; that the right ventricle retained its contractility two hours, and sometimes longer, while the right auricle was not quiescent upon the application of the galvanism until eight hours after death. He found it to vary in birds according to the degree of muscular activity which they enjoyed during life. In those of high flight, and which exercise great muscular contractility during life, and have a rapid circulation, as the sparrow- hawk, the irritability of the heart and other muscles becomes much more speedily exhaust- ed than in those the movements of which are comparatively slow and feeble,as in most domes- tic fowls.§ Nysten supposes that the explana- tion of the greater persistence of contractility of the right ventricle over the left lies in the cir- cumstance that the left acts with greater vigour during life, thus referring it to the important general law which he has established by his experiments upon the comparative excitability of the muscular tissue in the various classes of animals, that the duration of the contractility after death is in the inverse ratio of the muscu- lar energy developed during life.|| Before we » Op. cit. p. 316. f Page 318. i In these experiments all the other parts of the body lost their contractility before the right auricle. § Op. cit. p. 349. || Dr. Marshall Hall (Phil. Trans. 1832) has more lately laid it down as a general law that the irritability of the heart and other muscles is in the inverse ratio of the oxygen consumed in respiration. could admit this explanation, it would be ne- cessary to show, what we believe it will be found impossible to do, that the left ventricle, apart from its greater quantity of muscular fibre, exerts greater strength or exhibits more ener- getic contractions during life than the right ventricle. In young animals, immediately after birth, the contractility of the heart continues longer after death than in the adult animal. We would expect this to be most apparent in those which are born with their eyes shut, as puppies and kittens, and in those birds which are hatched without feathers, since these ani- mals at that period of life approach in their physiological conditions to the cold-blooded animals. There is a curious circumstance stated by Mangili, and confirmed by Dr. Mar- shall Hall, connected with the hybernation of animals, that if those mammalia which hyber- nate are killed while under a state of lethargy, the heart and other muscles remain contractile for a longer period than when they are killed in a state of activity, thus resembling, when under the influence of this lethargy, in this as in many other respects, the physiological con- dition of the cold-blooded animals. The con- tractions of the heart may frequently be renewed by the application of warmth after they have apparently ceased. I have repeatedly observed the fact which has been stated by Haller and Nysten, that when any of the cavities of the heart become congested with blood, their con- tractility becomes arrested, and, in their opi- nion, extinguished.* I have also found that unloading the right side of the heart soon after the congestion has taken place, which can be done in many cases by opening the external jugular vein, acts as a valuable adjuvant under certain circumstances in renewing the heart's action. These it would be out of place to dis- cuss here; but I may state that it appears to me to be principally useful in certain cases of poisoning, in asphyxia, and after the accidental entrance of air into the veins. Since the intro- duction of a considerable quantity of air into the veins produces death by mechanically ar- resting the movements of the right side of the heart, we believe that circumstances may occur in which the surgeon may be justified in intro- ducing a tube into one of the large veins pass- ing into the upper part of the chest, and suck- Various experimenters distinctly show that as we descend in the scale of animals the quantity of oxy- gen consumed diminishes, and that Birds consume more than Mammalia. Dr. Edwards has also shown that the young of the Mammalia deteriorate the atmospheric air less rapidly than the adult ani- mals ; and the experiments of Mangili and Prinella prove that hybernating animals, when in a state of lethargy, consume exceedingly little oxygen, so that there is evidently some relation between irri- tability and the quantity of oxygen consumed in re- spiration ; but for the proof that the irritability is exactly in the inverse ratio of the respiration, we must wait for Dr. Marshall Halt's promised experi- ments. * Haller supposed that this was effected, as must be if allowed to continue for any length of time, by the too great distension of the muscular fibres, in the same manner as distension of the bladder produces paralysis of its fibres.