FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. 286 its absence is, in the majority of the instances which they have selected, positively incorrect, for the author has ascertained its existence most satisfactorily in the dog, the horse, the cat, the cow, and the rabbit. Nor is any ex- ception to its existence mentioned by Cuvier, and hence he thinks it likely that it does exist generally, if not universally, throughout the class. It is not however similarly disposed in all; in some it is connected with the primitive naso-palatine nerve; in others with its nasal; and in others again with its palatine division : in some it gives off few filaments; in others, the horse, e. g. they are numerous beyond de- scription. The ganglion does not appear to exist in the inferior classes. From the spheno-palatine ganglion or nerve, according to the view of their source adopted, there is given off a considerable number of branches, which run in different directions and have different destinations: they have been distinguished into four sets, viz. superior, infe- rior, internal, and posterior. The superior branches are very delicate and, in some in- stances at least, numerous. Among them are described and represented by Arnold two long slender filaments, which join the optic : ano- ther is also mentioned by him to be sometimes found connected with the ophthalmic ganglion. The discovery of this connection between the two ganglia is due to Tiedemann, who found, upon the left side of a man, an anastomosis between them, established by a filament, of tolerable size, which, arising from the inner face of the spheno-palatine, entered the orbit and passing above the inferior branch of the motor- oculi nerve, where it gives off the short root, went in company with the last to gain the in- ferior and posterior part of the ophthalmic gan- glion ;* and beside those there may be found, in favourable subjects, others, which seem destined to the posterior ethmoidal cells. The inferior branch is the largest given off by the ganglion; it is distributed principally to the palate, and hence is called " the palatine;" but it supplies the nostril also in part, and hence it has been suggested by J. F. Meckel, that it might be appropriately called the " naso-palatine:" this appellation has, however, been applied by Scarpa to one of the internal branches, and it has been already explained that it belongs more properly to the original branch before its junction with the ganglion. The palatine nerve descends from the ganglion into the spheno-maxillary fossa, posterior to the internal maxillary artery and toward the pterygo-palatine canals, and after a short course divides into three branches; an anterior, larger one, denominated " the great palatine," and two posterior smaller branches, " the lesser palatine nerves." These branches continue to descend in com- pany until they reach the superior apertures of the canals; they then enter the canals and are transmitted downward through them to the palate and fauces. The great palatine descends through the anterior pterygo-palatine canal, * Journal Compl. vol. xxiv. Arnold. in company with a branch of the palatine artery, at the same time inclining forward : during its descent it gives off, in some in- stances before, in others after it has entered the canal, either one or two filaments, which descend inward, pass through the nasal process of the palate bone, and enter the nostril at the back part of the middle meatus, between the posterior extremities of the middle and in- ferior turbinate bones: one of them is dis- tributed to the membrane of the middle bone and of the middle meatus; the other to that of the convex surface of the inferior bone: when a single branch arises from the palatine it divides into two, which follow a similar distribution; these branches are denominated by the elder Meckel inferior nasal nerves in con- tradistinction to the superior nasal, to be de- scribed, given off by the ganglion and by the Vidian nerve. Another filament is described by Cloquet arising from the palatine shortly before it escapes from the canal, entering the nostril through the perpendicular plate of the palate bone, running along the margin of the inferior turbinate bone, and lost upon the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone, often also contained in an osseous canal. The great palatine nerve, then, for the most part divides into three branches, of which one, the smallest, descends through an accessory canal, in the pterygoid process of the palate- bone, leading from the anterior, and escapes from it inferiorly into the soft palate in which it is consumed. The other two escape from the pterygo- palatine canal, through the posterior palatine foramen, into the palate : at emerging from the foramen they are situate very far back, in the posterior angle of the hard palate on either side, and behind the last molar tooth of the upper jaw; they are immediately super- ficial to the periosteum, and above the other structures of the palate ; they are lodged, along with the branches of the accompanying artery, in channels upon the inferior surface of the palatine processes of the palate and the superior maxillary bones; they pass forward, one along the alveolar arch, the other toward the middle line of the palate, and subdivide, each, into several branches, which are dis- tributed to the structures of the hard palate, the mucous glands and membrane, and to the gums, and communicate in front with branches of the naso-palatine ganglion. In some instances the palatine nerve does not divide into those ultimate branches until after it has escaped from the palatine canal; but their disposition in such cases is in other respects the same. The lesser palatine nerves are posterior to the greater; they are transmitted also through the pterygo-palatine canals, the first through the posterior, the second through the external. The first, the larger of the two, and called middle palatine nerve, escapes from the canal inferiorly in front of the hamular process of the sphenoid bone, and divides into filaments, which are distributed to the soft paiate and its muscles.