ORGAN OF HEARING. 553 and behind by dense fibro-membraneous cellu- lar tissue, in which many cerumiiious glands are imbedded. The plate of cartilage which forms the an- terior and lower wall of this portion of the auditory passage is of a triangular shape with a fissure running through ils base to near the apex. The base is below; the apex above. The base corresponds to the anterior surface of the mas- toid process. One side is attached to the anterior and lower part of the circumference of the outer extremity of the osseous passage, by dense and strong cellular tissue. The other side corresponds to the base of the tragus. The apex or angle formed by the two sides runs into the upper part of the base of the tragus, and corresponds to the root of the zygomatic process. The angle formed by the base, and that side which is attached to the osseous part of the passage, is extended into a broad pointed tongue, which is fixed into the deep and rough depression at the lowest part of the margin of the orifice of the osseous passage. The angle formed by the base and Ihe other side is continued into the concha. The dense fibrous cellular tissue, which completes the passage above and behind, ex- tends from the cartilage of the concha to the upper and posterior part of the margin of the external orifice of the osseous part of the passage. What are called the fissures of Santonni, incisure Suntoriniunte, are:—1. that fissure extending through the base of the triangular plate of cartilage to near its apex ; and 2. that between the outer margin of the cartilage and the base of the tragus. These fissures are closed by fibrous cellular tissue which, particu- larly over the second fissure, appeared to San- torini to consist of muscular fibres. These fibres have, therefore, received the name of the muscle of the largest fissure, or the muscle of Santorini, m. incisure majuris s. Santorini. IJaller considered their action to be, by ap- proximating the cartilaginous pieces, to shorten the length of the passage. V iewed as a whole, the auditory passage is a canal of an oval calibre. It leads from the auricle to the tympanum, from the cavity of which it is separated by the interposition of the membrana tympani. In front of it lies the joint of the lower jaw, behind is the mastoid process. In the adult its length is about an inch and a quarter, and its direction is at first some- what forwards, then upwards and backwards, and lastly downwards and forwards again. Its louver wall is from one-tenth to one-fifth of an inch longer than the upper. The auditory passage is lined by a continua- tion of the skin of the auricle. This skin be- comes more and more delicate as it approaches the osseous part of the passage,—extremely so where it is continued on the outer surface of the membrana tympani. The skin of the audi- tory passage is covered with fine hairs, and in old persons close to the entrance, hairs like those on the tragus, sometimes of considerable length, are enrooted. The skin of the auditory passage is connected to the subjacent cartilage and bone by rather dense and sparing cellular tissue. The epider- mis readily separates by putrefaction, and may be drawn out like the finger of a glove, the blind end being the part which forms the outer borrowed layer of the membrana tympani. From about a tenth of an inch within the auditory passage to about one-fifth of an inch from the membrana tympani, the lining integu- ment is perforated by numerous small aper- tures, the terminations of the excretory ducts of the glands which secrete the ear-wax. These excretory orifices are most numerous about the middle of the passage, towards the termination of the cartilaginous and membraneous portion. The ceruminous glands, glandules cerumi? non<e, are small round or oval bodies of a brownish yellow colour, and very vascular. They are imbedded in the areola; presented by the dense cellular tissue which connects the skin of the auditory passage to the subjacent cartilage or bone. The ear-wax, cerumen, is, as is known, a thick orange-coloured or yellowish brown viscid substance, of an extremely bitter taste, and somewhat aromatic odour. When first secreted, it is a thin yellowish milky fluid. (See Leru- men.) The auditory passage, especially in the middle, is usually covered with a more or less thick layer of it. It consists principally of a butter-like fat and albumen in combination with a peculiar animal matter; of a yellow, bitter, alcoholic extractive matter, with lactate of potass and lime and a watery extractive matter. In irritation or diseased states of the glands, the ear-wax is changed in its properties, and is thrown out in larger quantities than usual, so that it collects and comes sometimes to fill completely the auditory passage, and thus give rise to dulness of hearing. Fig. 258. Horixontal section of the auditory passage (dimi- nished ). ( From Soemmerriny). a. Skin of the face in front of the ear ; b. lobule of the auricle ; c. the antitragus ; d. the tragus cut; e. ai thelix ; /".helix; g. anterior part of the osseous auditory passage, cut; h,h. anterior part of the cartilaginous portion of the passage, cut; i. poste- rior part of the cartilage of the ear ; h. membrana tympani ; /. section of the mastoid process ; m. dura mater; n. skin behind the ear. It is seen continued over the auricle, and from that into the auditory passage ; o. first or greater curve of the auditory passage ; the end of which is directed fur- wards ; p. the second or smaller curve, directed backwards; q. third and smallest curve ; at o. and p. are Been the orifices of the ceruminous glands.