576 HEARING. the suppurative process does not extend so far as to destroy the stapes, the hearing is only impaired; but should that bone and its attached membrane suffer, then a total deafness is the consequence. In one case, related by Sir A. Cooper, the membrana tympani was entirely destroyed on the left side, and partially so on the right, yet this gentleman, if his attention were excited, was capable, when in company, of hearing whatever was said in the usual tone of conversation, but it was remarkable that he heard better with the left ear than with the right, although in the former there were no traces of a membrana tympani. He could not hear from as great a distance as others, and he stated that, in a voyage he had made to the East Indies, while others, when ships were hailed at sea, could catch words with accuracy, his organ of hearing received only an indistinct impression. His musical ear was not impaired, " for he played well on the flute and had fre- quently boine a part in a concert.'' The ex- ternal ear too had acquired a considerable degree of mobility under the direction of the will, so that it could at pleasure be raised or drawn backwards, and this motion was ob- served to take place whenever the attention was directed to sounds not very distinctly audible. The Eustachian tube evidently performs a two-fold office :—it is the passage for the en- trance of air into the tympanic cavity from the throat, thus affording a provision for keeping that cavity constantly full of air in order to allow of the free vibration of the membranes as well as of the chain of bones ; and it seems obvious that the tube communicates with the throat in order that the air introduced through it shall have acquired the temperature of the body. It likewise affords an outlet for the es- cape of such sonorous undulations as do not impinge upon the labyrinthic wall of the tym- panum, which, were there no such communica- tion with the external air, would cause an echo, and in this respect it performs a function si- milar to that of the mastoid cells. The neces- sity of such a provision as is afforded by the first office which the Eustachian tube performs, is manifest from the frequency of deafness re- sulting from a stoppage either in the tube or at its extremity. Bressa supposed that the Eus- tachian lube conducted the sonorous impulses excited by one's own voice from the cavity of the mouth to the labyrinth ;* but the incor- * Reil and Autenrieth, Archiv. fiir die Physiolo- gie, B. viii. This was a modification of an opinion expressed by Boerhaave, viz., that those sounds from without which entered the mouth were conveyed to the labyrinth through the Eustachian tube. An English physiologist advocates the opinion that some sounds are conveyed through the Eustachian tube, and particularly as he supposes in the Cetacea, from the great development of that tube in these animals compared with the external auditory pas- sage, and the erroneous notion propagated by Home that the malleus had no connexion with the tym- panum, but now disproved by the careful exami- nation of Professor Owen. See Fletcher's Phy- siology, and Owen's Edition of Hunter's Animal Economy. rectness of this notion is abundantly proved by the fact that persons who labour under obstruc- tion of this tube can hear their own voices plainly enough, while they are deaf to those of others. Moreover, if we introduce into the mouth a watch or a vibrating tuning fork, care being taken that they do not touch any of the walls of the mouth, they are heard gradually less distinctly as they are approximated to the Eustachian tube; indeed when held far back in the mouth they are totally inaudible. In some birds the air of the tympanum finds its way not only into the mastoid cells, but also between the two tables of the skull, as in the owl and in singing birds. The arrangement of the osseous structure corresponding to the diploe is exceedingly beautiful in the canary, in which I have examined it. The two tables seem as it were connected by very fine and nu- merous bony pillars, the extremities of which are attached to each table ; cells freely commu- nicating with each other surround these pillars every where, and the air from the tympanum thus traverses the whole of this cellular struc- ture. The superfluous sonorous undulations find their way into these cells, and being re- peatedly reflected from their parietes become greatly weakened, so that they can exert no fur- ther influence upon the hearing. Functions of the nerves.—The nervous ap- paratus connected with the organ of hearing- consists of the nerve which receives the sono- rous impressions, and of other nerves which are connected with the mechanism of the organ. That the portio mollis of the seventh pair an- swers to the former office, anatomy alone abund- antly proves. With respect to the latter nerves some few remarks seem necessary. The mus- cular apparatus of the tympanic ossicles receives its nerves partly from the facial and partly from the otic ganglion, thus exhibiting an analogous arrangement to that of the muscular structure of the iris. Such an analogy renders it ex- tremely probable that the actions of the muscles of the ossicles are excited in a similar way to that in which the iris is prompted to act. The stimulus of sound conveyed to that portion of the nervous centre with which it is connected, excites by reflection the motor power of the facial nerve, which, through its connexion di- rect or indirect with the muscles of the ossicles, causes them to act, and the action is in propor- tion to the intensity of the sound, inasmuch as the more tense the membrane of the tympanum, the less will be the excursions of its vibrations; as in the iris the more intense the light, the more contracted will the pupil be. It is im- possible in the present state of our knowledge to say what is the office of the chorda tympani, or whether indeed it has any office in connexion with hearing; but we may easily conceive that from its connexion with the facial, an irritation of it may excite that nerve. Equally ignorant are we of the function of the tympanic anas- tomosis. I shall conclude with the following brief summary of the present state of our knowledge respecting the functions of the several portions of the organ of hearing.