100 ENDOSMOSIS. through the capillary conduits of the plate, and this flow would have become perceptible by the sinking of the water in the tube, the inte- rior of which was only two millimeters in dia- meter. The result of this experiment was that the plate of marble, which was four centimeters in diameter, did not lose by filtration, in one day, more than the small quantity of water capable, by its subtraction, of lowering its level one millimeter and a half in the tube. I next tried syrup in this endosmometer, the reservoir being plunged into pure water; but no endosmosis was induced. I now reduced the thickness of the plate of marble to one millimeter and a half; in this state it lost by filtration, in the course of a day, eleven mil- limeters of water measured by the tube. The permeability of this plate was, as may be per- ceived, very sensibly increased : still the en- dosmometer which it closed when filled with syrup showed no indications of endosmosis. 1 reduced the thickness of the plate of marble to one millimeter. In this state it lost by fil- tration, in the space of a day, twenty-one milli- meters of water measured in the tube. I put into the endosmometer, which this plate of marble closed, the same syrup which had been used in the preceding experiments, and the density of which was 1.12, and I now ob- tained an endosmosis which manifested itself by an ascension of seven millimeters in four- and-twenty hours. This last experiment proved ' to me that carbonate of lime was not, as I had hitherto found it, totally without the power to produce endosmosis. 1 wished to compare this plate of marble with a piece of bladder of the same surface under the double point of view, of their permeability, and their respec- tive properties of producing endosmosis. Having therefore taken off the plate of marble which closed the endosmometer, I replaced it by a piece of bladder whose permeability to water I measured in the same manner as above. 1 found this permeability very nearly equal to that of the plate of marble of one millimeter in thick- ness. I then put into this endosmometer some syrup similar in density to that which I had used in the same endosmometer closed with the plate of marble. The endosmosis which I obtained raised the syrup seventy-three millimeters in three hours. Thus the permea- bility to water being equal in the bladder and in the plate of marble, the endosmosis pro- duced by the first was to the endosmosis pro- duced by the second as 584 is to 7, a most extraordinary difference, and difficult to be accounted for. These experiments prove that carbonate of lime is but very little apt to pro- duce endosmosis, in which it differs singularly from baked clay, thin laminaB of which are almost as apt to produce endosmosis as organic membranes. The varieties of sulphate of lime which may be employed in endosmometrical experiments are not sufficiently numerous or of sufficient variety of permeability for it to be possible to appreciate the properties of this substance in relation to endosmosis. I found that the sul- phate of lime used in the manufacture of plaster in the environs of Paris, employed in thin plates to close an endosmometer, did not produce endosmosis. But this mineral is per- haps too easily permeable. In fact it is found impossible to obtain endosmosis when the in- terior fluid of the endosmometer flows easily by filtration, in virtue of its weight, through porous plates. I should say as much of plates of freestone (gres) which I have employed without success in these experiments, but that I recollect to have obtained the phenomenon in a very slight degree with a plate of freestone very close-grained and very little permeable to fluids. I have tried a variety of experiments shew- ing that an increase of temperature increases endosmosis. This result has been confirmed by repeated experiments. The quantity of the same fluid introduced by endosmosis, and with the same sort of per- meable partition, is generally in proportion to the extent of surface of this partition. The following experiment demonstrated this fact. I took two endosmometers, the membranes of which, taken from the same bladder, were of diameters in the relation of one to two; I filled the reservoirs of these two endosmometers with syrup of equal density, and then plunged them into pure water. I had taken care to weigh them previously with great exactness. After continuing the experiment for two hours, I weighed the instruments afresh, and found in the large endosmometer four times as great an increase of weight as in the small one, which proved that the first had introduced, by endos- mosis, four times as much water as the second. This relation was exactly that of the extent of surface of their respective membranes, the diameters of which were as one is to two, and their surfaces consequently as one is to four. 1 have thus enumerated the effects; let us now endeavour to ascertain their causes. The first idea which presented itself to my mind to explain the phenomenon of endosmosis was that it was owing to electricity. We know that effects exactly similar to those of endos- mosis are produced by means of the electricity of the voltaic pile in the experiment of M. Porret, inserted in the Annates de Chirnie, vol. xi. p. 137. This naturalist having divided a vessel into two compartments by a septum of bladder, filled one of the compartments with water, and put only a small quantity in the other. Havmg placed the positive pole of the pile in communication with the compartment full of water, and the negative pole with the compartment containing little water, the fluid was forced through the bladder from the full compartment into the almost empty one, and there rose to a higher level than that to which it was reduced in the original full compart- ment. I varied this experiment by applying it to my own apparatus. I put pure water into an endosmometer, the membrane of which was plunged into water. I made the interior water of the endosmometer communicate with the negative pole of the pile, and the exterior