956 INSECTA. connecting nerves in the larva forming one por- tion of the nerves for the future wing of the per- fect insect. The nerves for both pairs of wings are then derived separately from two portions of cord and two distinct ganglia, and this is the state in which they are also found soon after the insect has changed to a pupa (jig. 414). Fig. 414. Pupa of Sphinx ligustri. (Newport, Phil Tram.) The connecting nerves are then derived from the cord (e, h), and being joined each to the first nerve from the next ganglion assist to form the future alary nerves (f, i). Now as the change to the perfect insect proceeds, the second ganglion (2) becomes approximated to the third (5), which gradually disappears, and the cord between it and the fourth becomes enlarged and shortened, and passes on each side of the insertion of the muscles in the centre of the meso-thorax, the cord between the second and third ganglion having also become obliterated, so that there is then no ganglion intervening between the origins of the two pairs of wings, but only a portion of cord. The nerves for the two pairs of wings then approach each other diagonally, the anterior pair being directed backwards, and the posterior forwards, until they meet and form a plexus, their roots still continuing distinct from each other; the root of the anterior being .derived from the cord posterior to the united second and third gan- glia, and that of the posterior from the cord connected with the united fourth and fifth gan- glia. After forming the plexus, the nerves are again separated and given to the anterior and posterior wings. The reason for this curious union and complexity in the distribution of the nerves to the wings is not at first very evident, but on a little reflexion it is found to be regu- lated by one of those beautiful provisions in the animal economy by which the most perfect harmony in the exercise of all the functions of the body is preserved. The wings, the most powerful and most constantly employed organs, are not merely required to act with energy, but in the most perfect unison with each other, more especially in insects of long-continued or rapid flight, and hence must be supplied with power from the same centre, not merely that of voluntary motion but also of sensation. That this is the reason for this curious union of the nerves for the wings seems apparent from the circumstance that it exists in very many tetrapterous insects of rapid or powerful flight, as in the Apida and Ichneumonidie, while in others, even of the same order, as in Athalia cenlifuUa:, which is well known to fly heavily and but a short distance, there is no such com- bination. In the Scorpion-fly also, Panorpa communis, it is absent, and the alary nerves originate by double roots without forming a plexus as in the larva of the Sphinx, while the flight of the insect is sluggish and but of short duration. Besides this it may be re- marked that in many Coleoptera in which the anterior wings or elytra are merely elevated and nearly motionless during flight, the nerves are derived separately from the cord, and proceed to their destination without being first com- bined in a plexus. The cord and nerves of the abdomen, as before stated, we regard merely as a cauda equina. We have before explained the varieties in the formation of the cord in different insects, and need but further remark that in each instance the cord in the abdomen, as in other parts, is covered in by a strong fibrous membrane, which separates it from the cavity of the abdomen. In the Gryllidm we have distinctly recognised muscular fibres running transversely above the cord from one side of the body to the other. They have also been observed by Burmeister, who supposes them to assist in the function of respi- ration by contracting the segments, and thus aiding in the act of expiration. We have seen similar trans-muscles lying above the mem- brane that binds down the nervous cord in the abdomen of Bombus terrestris. The mem- brane is continuous with that which covers the cord in the thorax. A similar membrane was formerly noticed by Lyonet in the Cossus,* and subsequently by ourselves in the Sphinx.f Between this membrane and the cord there is a * Recherches sur l'Anatomie et les Metamor- phoses des differentes Especes d'Insectes, ouvrage posthume de Pierre Lyonet. Paris, 1832, fig. 18, p. 52. t Phil. Trans. 1834, part ii. p. 395, pi. xiv. fig. 9.