367 MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. one of the muscular septa previously referred to. At the lower part of the upper third of the fore- arm their separation is complete. The flexor carpi radialis first changes its muscular fibres for tendinous on its anterior face, and a rounded tendon is the result at the upper part of the lower third of the arm. This tendon passes in front of the wrist-joint and through a groove in the os trapezium, is ultimately inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone supporting the fore-finger. This muscle has on its outer edge, in the superior third of the fore-arm, the pronator radii teres, in the two inferior thirds the supi- nator radii longus; the palmaris longus to its inner edge, both at its origin and throughout its whole course in the fore-arm. Anterior to it there is simply the fascia, its posterior face is in contact with the superficial flexor of the fingers above and the long flexor of the thumb below. The tendon of this muscle projects distinctly through the skin at the lower part of the arm. The flexor carpi radialis, besides flexing the whole hand on the fore-arm, bends the second row of carpal bones upon the first. It will also act as an abductor of the hand, in consequence of its being fixed on the outer side of the hand in the pulley-like groove of the trapezium through which it passes. It slightly assists the pronator muscles in their influence over the hand. 3. The palmaris longus, Soemm., epitrochlo- palmaire, Chauss. The origin of this muscle, which is in common with the other flexors, is from the inner condyle, also from a tendinous intermuscular septum which separates it from the flexor carpi radialis on the outer side and the flexor communis digitorum on the inner. This muscle, the smallest of those situated in the fore-arm, becomes tendinous midway be- tween the elbow and wrist-joint. This tendon, which is narrow and slender, descends to the annular ligament, and is ultimately connected with the palmar fascia. This fascia has some- times been considered as a mere expansion of the tendon of the palmaris longus, but as the muscle is occasionally wanting and the fascia never, we regard it rather as another instance of that useful connexion of muscles with fascia; which we have already had occasion to admire. This muscle, except at its origin where it has the flexor carpi radialis to its inner side and the flexor communis to the outer, maintains a posi- tion completely superficial to the other muscles, its posterior face lying upon the flexor communis sublimis. This muscle flexes the hand, and makes tense the palmar fascia and annular ligament, and thus takes off from the palmar vessels and nerves and the tendons of the digital flexors the pressure to which they are exposed when the hand grasps a solid body firmly; as, for in- stance, when the whole weight of the body is sustained, as in the case of the sailor climbing the rigging of a vessel, by the power of the flexors of the fingers and hand. 4. Flexor communis digitorum sublimis per- forutus. (Museulus perforatus, Soemm., epi- troehlo-phalanginien commun, Chauss.) This muscle also arises from the inner condyle in common with the other muscles, and from a strong tendinous septum separating it from the flexor carpi ulnaris. About the middle of the fore-arm this portion of the muscle is joined by muscular fibres which arise from the radius im- mediately below the insertion of the supinator radii brevis, and on the inner side of the pro- nator radii teres. Between these two origins of the flexor communis digitorum is placed the median nerve. The tendinous fibres, into which the muscle is gradually transformed, become first apparent on the anterior surface, and next being collected ultimately split into four cords, which passing behind the annular ligament of the wrist, enter the palm of the hand; oppo- site the first phalanx of the four fingers these cords, splitting into two portions and allowing the passage of the deep flexors, terminate by being inserted in the rough edge on the sides of the second phalanges. The tendons of this muscle as well as the deep flexor are bound down to the phalanges by smooth tendinous sheaths or thecal which are dense and firm be- tween the articulations, but insensibly disap- pearing opposite the joint, where their presence would interfere with the motion of the parts; they are lined by synovial membrane to prevent unnecessary friction. Although the lateral width of this muscle is considerable, only a very narrow edge is in contact with the fascia, the remainder being covered by the last-mentioned muscles, so that some anatomists have described it as constitu- ting a middle layer. On the internal edge is placed the flexor carpi ulnaris, which maintains the same relative position to it throughout the fore-arm. In contact with its posterior face we have the flexor digitorum profundus, the flexor longus pollicis, and the ulnar artery, vein, and nerve. This muscle flexes the second phalanx on the first, and the first on the metacarpus, and the whole hand on the fore-arm. 5. Flexor carpi ulnaris, (musculus ulnaris internus, Soemm, cubital interne, Portal, cu- bito-carpien, Chauss.) This muscle arises from the internal extremity of the internal condyle of the humerus from the tendinous intermuscu- lar septum, between it and the flexor carpi digi- torum sublimis, and from the olecranon process of the ulna; between these two heads the ulnar nerve is situated; its origin from the ulna is not limited to the olecranon process, for it con- tinues its connexion with that bone nearly as low down as the origin of the pronator quad- ratus. This muscle, which arises tendinous and fleshy, merges into tendinous fibres on its anterior surface at the upper part of the lower third of the fore-arm. The tendon by degrees becomes more rounded, but does not cease to receive fleshy fibres until it terminates by be- coming inserted into the annular ligament and os pisiforme. The flexor carpi ulnaris, forming the inner margin of the muscles of the fore-arm, is in contact witli the fascia: its external edge touches