29 DIGESTIVE CANAL. disposition of their alimentary cavities; but however long they remain in these coloured infusions, with their stomachs distended with the colouring matter, it is not perceived to communicate the slightest tinge to the general cellular tissue of their body. In most of the animals of this class there is an alimentary canal with an oral and an anal orifice, which traverses the body and is provided with nume- rous small round coecal appendices, which open into its sides throughout its whole course, and which appear to perform the office of stomachs in receiving and preparing the food. In the simplest forms of animalcules however, (as in the monas atomus represented in fig. 4 A) there is but one orifice {fig. 4 A, a) to the alimen- tary cavity, and the numerous coecal appendices (fig. 4 A, b) open into this general wide orifice placed at the anterior extremity of the body. This simpler form of the digestive apparatus is found in the monads and in about forty other known genera of polygastrica, which, from this circumstance of their having no intestine passing through their body, have been grouped together as an order under the name of anen- tera. In the ?nonas termo, which is only about the two-thousandth of a line in diameter, four and even six of these roand stomachs have been seen filled with the colouring matter, although they did not appear to be half the number which might be contained in its body. Each of these round stomachs was about ^ of a line in diameter, and they appear to open, as in other ane.ntcra, by a narrow neck into a wide funnel-shaped mouth surrounded with a single row of long vibratile cilia, which attract the floating organic particles or minuter invisi- ble animalcules as food. This anenterous form of the digestive sacs is found both in the lori- cated and in the naked kinds of animalcules belonging to the lowest genera of the class, many of which, however, have been found to be only the young of supposed higher genera. The intestine which traverses the interior of the body in all the higher forms of polygastric animalcules, and connects all the internal sto- machs with its cavity, presents very different appearances in different genera and even in different species of the same genus. In the vorticellu citrina (fig. 4 13) the intestine (fig. 4 B, b, c) passes downwards from the mouth, nearly of equal width throughout, and after forming a curve in the lower part of the body, it ascends to terminate at the same oral funnel- shaped ciliated aperture, (fig-^ B, a,) between the two circles of cilia around the head at which it commenced, having numerous coecal stomachs communicating with its cylindrical equal canal throughout its whole course. This circular form of intestine opening at both its extremities in the same ciliated aperture, is seen also in the carchesium, zoocladium, episty- lis, ophrydium, vaginicola, and other genera, which from this character are termed cyclocasla. In some of the animalcules of this group, as in the stentor polymorphic, (fig. 5 M,) the intes- Fis. 5. ■xnt Fig. 6. tine pursuing the same circular course through the body, is sacculated or irregularly dilated into round vesicles throughout its whole length, and from these enlarged parts the little stomachs commence by short narrow necks. In other species of the stentor the intestine is twisted in a spiral manner throughout its circular course. Many of the polygastric animalcules which ap- proach nearer to the helminthoid classes in the lengthened form of their body, have the mouth and anus placed at the opposite extremities, as in these higher classes. In the long body of the enchelis pupa, (fig. 6,) the intestine is seen passing straight and cylindri- cal through the body from the wide ciliated terminal mouth (fig. 6, a) to the opposite dilated anal termi- nation (fig. 6, b) and giving off numerous small sacs along its whole course. Such animalcules form the group termed orthocala from this straight course of the intestine. The intestine, however,in the leucoplirys patula (fig. 5 A) passes in a spiral course through the short and broad body of the animalcule, giving off small stomachs or cceca along its whole course, and such crooked forms of the alimentary canal com- pose the group of campylocorta, in the distribution of this class proposed by Ehrenberg. Thirty-five genera of polygastrica present an intestine passing through their transparent body, and developing from its parietes these minute globular cceca, which have been regarded as stomachs, from the quickness with which the animalcule conveys the food into them, and from its not accumulating or retaining its food in any other part of the digestive apparatus. More than a hundred of these stomachs have been seen in theparammcium and aurelia filled at the same time, and there may have been many more unseen from their empty and col- lapsed state. These little sacs are contracted,