GENERATION. 469 the first of these topics which we shall con- sider, viz. § 1. Superfatution.—In the first section of Part IV. it has been mentioned that in the human female, as soon as the ovum has arrived in the uterus, and even a short while before that period, the passage through the mouth and neck of the uterus is closed by a viscid mucus, which opposes a firm barrier against the entrance of seminal fluid, and thus prevents the occurrence of subsequent or reiterated con- ception. In some of the lower animals, on the other hand, it would appear that several consecutive conceptions not unfrequently occur, and in some animals this may be considered as the natural mode of generation. It becomes a point of some interest both in a physiological and in a medico-legal view to determine, whether, as has been supposed by some, the same ever takes place in the human species. The quadrupeds in which superfoetation (as a second conception during pregnancy is called) is said to occur possess a uterus with two horns, and it may be that in them the product of the first conception has occupied only one of the cornua of the uterus, and that the second conception occurred upon the other or empty side. This may be the case in the hare, for example, which is said to be particu- larly liable to superfoetation. In woman also, it has been supposed that a double form of uterus, which is present in rare instances as a malformation of that organ, may admit of a second conception on one side in the course of uterogestation confined to the other. But though this may be regarded as possible, we are not aware that any example of the actual occurrence of pregnancy in both cornua of a double uterus affords a satisfactory proof of it. Great caution is necessary in admitting the evidence of superfoetation, as many circum- stances concur to render it very fallacious. Women occasionally bear twins, or two chil- dren differing greatly in size and apparent age; and many are apt at once to form the conclu- sion from thence that the two children must have commenced their existence or have been generated at different times; but it is much more likely in most of these instances, that the different appearance in the size and con- formation of the children has arisen solely from a difference in the rapidity and vigour of their growth. In by far the greater num- ber of such instances, the smaller of the children bears obvious marks of being stunted in its growth, and it is often deformed, blighted, or dead and shrunk; and even although this were not the case and the children were both alive, a mere difference of size of children born at the same time must be regarded as very slight evidence indeed of so great a devi- ation from the usual phenomena of pregnancy as superfoetation. Those who believe in the possibility of the occurrence of superfoetation found their belief chiefly upon some rare instances of the birth of more than one perfectly developed child at successive periods so remote from one another that both cannot have been conceived at the same time, and it must be admitted that these cases, if correct, go far to prove the possibility of superfoetation. In reviewing the cases of alleged super- foetation two questions at once present them- selves for consideration, viz. 1st, whether a second conception may take place within a few hours or days after the first, or we may say at any period before the ovum is settled in the uterus; and, second, whether this may occur at a later period, as at two, three, four, or more months after the first conception. The puppies of a bitch, we have already mentioned, generally bear a resemblance to more than one of the dogs with which she has had connexion during the period of heat, and this period may extend to eight or nine days. A mare, which had been covered by a stallion, was five days afterwards covered by an ass, and bore at the usual time twins, one of which was a common foal, the other a mule.* Women have been known to bear two chil- dren of different colour; and in one of these instances the mother is said to have confessed to having admitted the embraces of a black servant a few hours after her husband, who was white. Facts like these seem to shew that sexual intercourse limited to an interval of a few days (most probably before the uterus has been closed by the decidua) may produce super- foetation. But we would remark that, although it may be that the mechanical obstruction of the decidua opposes an obstacle to the passage of semen upwards, or the descent of a new ovum into the uterus, there is obviously ano- ther cause why superfoetation should not occur: we mean that fundamental change in the con- stitution which is induced by pregnancy, similar to that which continues in the majority of women during lactation. But for such a constitutional change, we conceive continual derangement of the function of utero-gestation would attend that process in consequence of the recurrence of some of the more general symptoms of conception, even although a lodgement of a new ovum in the cavity of the uterus were impossible. The following cases serve to illustrate the nature of the more important facts on record which do not admit of an explanation, except- ing on the supposition that superfoetation has taken place. 1. A woman bearing a full-grown male child had neither lochia nor milk after its birth, and a hundred and thirty-nine days afterwards bore a second child—a living girl, when the milk and lochia came naturally. Eisenmann, who had observed this case, explained the occurrence by supposing that a double uterus existed; but upon the woman's death some time afterwards, no unusual structure -was found.f * Archiv. Gen. torn. xii. p. 125. Another similar instance is related in torn. xvii. p. 89, of the same work. t See Burdach's Physiol.