875 INSECTA. average weight is about ninety-five grains, and its length sometimes as much as forty lines. During this period, therefore, it has increased nine thousand and five hundred times its origi- nal weight, and has eaten sixty thousand times its weight of food. But observations on the larva of the privet hawk moth, Sphinx ligustri,* lead us to believe that this estimate of the amount of food eaten is a little too great. The larva of the sphinx at the moment of leaving the egg weighs about one eightieth of a grain; at about the ninth day it casts its second skin and then weighs about one-eighth of a grain: on the twelfth day it changes its skin again and then weighs rather more than nine-tenths of a grain. On the sixteenth day it casts its fourth skin and weighs three grains and a half, and on the twenty-second day enters its sixth and last skin and weighs very nearly twenty grains; but on the thirty-second day, when it has acquired its greatest size, it weighs nearly one hundred and twenty-five grains, so that in the course of thirty-two days this larva increases about nine thousand nine hundred and seventy- six times its original weight. At this period it is sometimes more than four inches in length. But this is not the greatest weight that the larva attains. One specimen which was bred in its natural haunts weighed one hundred and forty-one grains and seven-tenths, so that in this instance the insect had increased at the rate of eleven thousand three hundred and twelve times its original weight. But great as is this proportion of increase, it is exceeded by some other larvae. Lyonet found that the larva of Cussus ligniperda, which remains about three years in that state, increased to the amount of seventy-two thousand times its first weight.f This amazing increase is occasioned chiefly by a prodigious accumulation of fat which exists in a greater quantity in this than in most other larvae. We have ourselves removed forty-two grains of fat from one specimen, which was more than one-fourth of the whole weight of the insect. The occasion for this prodigious accumulation is chiefly to supply the insect during its continuance in the pupa state, while the muscular structure of the limbs and other parts of the body are in the course of develop- ment; and also to serve, perhaps, as an imme- diate source of nutriment to the insect at the period of its assuming the perfect state, and more particularly during the rapid development of its generative functions; since, when these have become perfected, the quantity that re- mains is very inconsiderable. But all larvae do not increase in these amazing proportions, although their actual increase may be more rapid. Those in which the proportion of in- crease is the greatest are usually those which remain longest in the pupa state, as in the species first noticed. Thus Redit observed in the maggots of the common flesh-flies a rate of increase amounting to about two hundred times the original weight in twenty-four hours, but the proportion of increase in these larvae does * Phil. Trans. 1837, part ii. p. 315. t Traite Anat. dc la Chenille, p. 11. t Be Genciat. Inscitoruni, p. 27. not at all approach that of the sphinx and cossus. From observations made on the larva of one of the wild bees, Anthoplwra retusa, we believe that this is also the case with the Hy- menoptera. The weight of the egg of this insect is about the one hundred and fiftieth part of a grain, and the average weight of a full-grown larva six grains and eight tenths, so that its increase is about one thousand and twenty times its original weight; which, com- pared with that of the sphinx of medium size, is but as one to nine and three-quarters, and to a sphinx of maximum size only as one to a bttle more than eleven. The changes of skin which a larva undergoes before it enters the pupa state are more or less frequent in different species. In the generality of Lepidopterous insects it occurs about five times, but in one of the tiger-moths, Arctia Cuja, according to Messrs. Kirby and Spence,* ten times. A few hours before the change is to take place the larva ceases to eat and remains motionless, attached by its abdominal legs to the under-surface of the twig or leaf upon which it has been feeding. Many species spin a slight web or carpet of silk in which they attach their posterior legs, as observed by Dr. Pallas of Apatura iris,f and in this manner await their change, which appears to be attended with much uneasiness to the insect. The whole body is wrinkled and contracted in length. In the sphinx this contraction occurs to so great an extent in some of the longitudinal muscles of the anterior and middle part of the body that the larva assumes that peculiar attitude from whence the genus derives its name. In this attitude the larva remains for several hours, during which there are occasionally some powerful contractions and twitchings of its whole body, the skin becomes dry and shri- velled, and is gradually separated from a new but as yet very delicate one which has been formed beneath it, and the three or four anterior segments are greatly enlarged on their dorsal but contracted on their under surface. After several powerful efforts of the larva the old skin cracks along the middle of the dorsal surface of the second segment, and by repeated efforts the fissure is extended into the first and third segments, and the covering of the head divides along the vertex and on each side of the clypeus. The larva then gradually presses itself through the opening, withdrawing first its head and thoracic legs, and subsequently the remainder of its body, slipping off the skin from behind like the finger of a glove. This process, after the skin has once been ruptured, seldom lasts more than a few minutes. When first changed the larva is exceedingly delicate, and its head, which does not increase in size until it again changes its skin, is very large in proportion to the rest of its body. In a few hours the insect begins again to feed most voraciously, particularly after it has entered its last skin, when its growth is most rapid. Thus a larva of Sphinx ligustri, which at its last * Vol. i. t Trans. lint. Society, vol. ii. part ii. p. 138.