921 INSECTA. rior portion of which, according to Mr. Ma- cleay, is the proper scutellum (5) enormously enlarged, while Audouin regards it as being the dorsal surface of the fifth segment of the larva, so that, if the latter opinion be correct, the thorax of Ilymenoptera must be composed of four instead of three segments. We must confess that at first we were inclined to Au- douiri's opinion, more especially on account of what we shall presently find in Lepidoptera, in which the fifth segment, in its atrophied con- dition, is as much connected with the thorax as with the abdomen. On further examination, however, we are satisfied that that portion of the meta-thorax which is posterior to the incisure belongs to the third segment of the thorax ; but we differ from Macleay in regarding it rather as the scutellum and post-scutellum united, than as the scutellum alone. Its proper boun- dary is marked on each side of the segment by an elevated ridge or fraenum, (4 d,) which is extended across the incisure from a little behind the insertion of the wings,—where it is conti- nuous with a ridge of the meta-notum,—as far as the posterior margin of the acetabulum for the insertion of the coxa of the leg. The post- scutellum, therefore, may be regarded as having coalesced with the scutellum, and assisted in the enlargement of that part. It is distinct, but of small size in Pollutes, and is connected at its upper part with a short ligament, or funiculus, that is attached to the anterior margin of the sixth segment (6), the first segment of the ab- domen, which it assists to support. But we have yet to trace the fifth segment of the larva, which at first appears to be entirely lost. On carefully separating or removing the meta-tho- racic coxae of Ichneumon Atropos, we find a very short plate, reduced almost to a ligament, but still distinct as the remains of a separate segment. It is the connecting medium be- tween the under surface of the thorax and ab- domen. We regard it as the remains of the ventral plate of the fifth segment, of which the upper or dorsal plate has entirely disappeared, or exists perhaps in an altered form, as the fu- niculus just alluded to. W e are strengthened in this opinion by an examination of several species of Ichneumonidte, although in the gene- rality of Ilymenoptera the fifth segment ap- pears to have coalesced with the sixth, to form the petiole or peduncle of the abdomen. The meta-sternum is formed of the same parts as in the preceding, segments. The paraptera are situated immediately beneath the posterior wings, in the triangular space bounded in front by the epimeron of the preceding seg- ment, and above and behind by the incisure and fraenum, ( 4 d,) that connect the scutellum with the scutum. The episternum is concealed by the preceding segments, and the sternum is reduced to a small triangular piece, situated be- tween the coxae. The epimeron (4 h) is large, to give attachment to the large coxae, but the trochantin does not exist as a piece distinct from the coxa (/), with which it appears to have become united. The meta-thoracjc or second pair of spiracles (**) are situated in the anterior lateral parts of the scutellum. The situation of the spiracles has sometimes been considered as indicatory of the different seg- ments, but, as remarked by Mr. Macleay, these parts are unsafe gindes, since they exist in certain segments in some species, but not in others, and their situation is often changed during the metamorphoses from the larva to the perfeet state. We have seen that the meta- thoracic spiracles of the larva are placed at the most posterior part of the fourth segment, {fig. 3.56,) but in the perfect insect, as we now find, this is not the case. If the situation of these parts were alike in the two states of the insect, there would be no difficulty in identifying the segments of the imago with those of the larva. We believe, however, that the true thorax is formed of the second, third, and fourth seg- ments in all insects, and that the fifth segment, always greatly reduced in size, and sometimes, as in this order, almost entirely atrophied, is not in reality a part of the true thorax, but is sometimes connected more or less with that region, or with the abdomen, being intermediate between the two. Hence we have ventured to designate it the thoracico-abdominal segment. The number of segments in the abdomen of perfect Hymenoptera appears on a cursory ex- amination to vary considerably ; those in which the abdomen is supported on a pedicle or foot- stalk having fewer than others in which the abdomen is of the same width as the thorax, and the sting or borer of the female is not con- cealed, as in Sirex juvencus. This insect on a cursory inspection seems to have nine segments in the abdomen, besides a very large terminal joint, more than twice as large as any of the others, which is pointed at its extremity, and on the under surface of which is situated the anal aperture. In reality, however, there are but nine segments in this most developed form of abdomen, the tenth being only a large meta- thoracic post-scutellum, which is extended over the base of the abdomen, while the thir- teenth and fourteenth segments of the larva, instead of becoming atrophied, as is usually the case in other insects, during the metamor- phoses, have coalesced and become enormously enlarged in order to afford sufficient space for the muscles required for the employment of the strong terebra or borer with which the insect penetrates the solid timber of living trees to deposit her eggs. In the Tenthredinida, as in Allantus scrophularia, there are nine dis- tinct segments besides the post-scutellum, and this is probably the case in Athalia centifoliic, although we can discover but eight distinct ones in that species. We suspect that the last three segments in this insect become united to form the parts connected with the female organs. In the males there is the same number of seg- ments as in the females. This is also the case in Ichneumon Atropos (fig. 390), in which there are nine distinct segments to the abdomen besides the minute plate at the base of the sixth, the remains of the thoracico-abdominal segment before noticed. In the wasp, hornet, and bee, only six segments are at first evident in the abdomen, which arises from the circum- stance that the anal segments, which form part