INSECTA. 948 and to the moto-sensitive nerve (ri), and, like the other, the obliqui and recti muscles and dorsal vessel. This division of the transverse nerve into two branches before it arrives at the trachea is not figured by Lyonet in the Cossus. In his delineation the transverse nerve crosses the trachea singly, posteriorly to the spiracle, where it communicates, as in the Sphinx, with the first moto-sensitive nerve from the gan- gliated cord, but does not give off a large branch anteriorly to the spiracle. We are thus particular in our description of these nerves, because it has sometimes been supposed that their distribution is precisely the same in all Lepidoptera, but which it is thus seen is not the case. Such, then, are the origins and the distri- bution of the nerves in the larvae of Lepidop- it);,into the description of which we have uitcit dthus minutely in order to show that seme nerves are distributed, more especially than others, to parts concerned both in the organic functions and the voluntary motions of the animal, and that others are given almost exclusively to parts that minister entirely to sensation and volition. Of the first kind are those which we have designated respiratory nerves; of the second are those we have described as the moto-sensitive, the proper nerves of the cord. The distribution of the first so especially to the respiratory organs is a circumstance which justifies us, we think, in still regarding them by that designation, whether they be considered as constituting a distinct system, as formerly supposed, or as being of a mixed character, connecting the organic with the voluntary func- tions of the body, as suggested by Professor Miiller, and as we now regard them. In our earliest inquiries into the structure and uses of parts of the nervous system in insects, we first described these nerves with reference to func- tion, as respiratory nerves, but it was after- wards suggested by Professor Grant that these ' might be motor nerves,' an opinion founded analogically upon the existence of a loose and easily detachable structure situated upon the nervous cord in the Scorpion and the Centi- pede, and which was imagined to be the motor tract, but which has since been shown to belong to the vascular instead of the nervous system. The structure which we regard as the true motor column, we have always found in close apposition with the sensitive, and in no instance lying freely upon or loosely attached to it. That the transverse nerves are indeed of a mixed character may readily be inferred from the description we have above given of their peculiar structure, which was in part noticed by Lyonet,* who called these nerves brides epiniires. It is distinctly seen that three sets of fibres enter into the composition of them. The commissural set, which runs transversely across the cord to each side of the body, is per- fectly distinct from the longitudinal that form the single loosely attached longitudinal portion of each plexus above the cord. The pecu- * Op. cit. p. 201. liarity of their distribution is also as remarkable as their structure. We have seen that they are given to the muscles of the wings, not sepa- rately, but approximated to other nervous trunks, which are derived both from the com- pound cord and from the ganglia; that they are given to the muscle that connects the alimentary canal to the general muscular structures of the body; that they are connected with the nerve from ganglia of the cord in each segment, are also given separately to the organic struc- tures, the tracheaa and dorsal vessel; and that these nerves alone follow the course of the tracheae inwards to their distribution on the alimentary canal; from all which it may be in- ferred that their function is certainly in part organic; while the fact of their being also in part continuous with some of the nerves from the cord which are distributed to voluntary muscles renders it equally apparent that they are in part also connected with the function of volition. The nervous system of the perfect insect differs considerably in the size and relative position of its parts from that of the larva. Instead of its being almost equally distributed to every segment of the body, the greater pro- portion of it is removed forwards and concen- trated in the head and thorax. This concentra- tion takes place in every insect that undergoes a complete metamorphosis. The great principle upon which the development of the nervous system depends, is the approximation and concentration of the ganglion of the different segments, the shortening of the cords, and the formation of new trunks, by the enlargement, the changing of place, and the aggregation of several nerves into one bundle, occasioned and rendered necessary by other changes that take place in the body at a certain period. A concentration, therefore, of the nervous matter is regarded, both in the perfect and larva con- dition, as a proof of a higher stage of develop- ment in an insect than when the nervous matter is more equally distributed. On this account partly it is that the Coleoptera are considered the higher forms of insects, because, in addition to a more perfectly developed form of the tegu- mentary skeleton, there is also in them a concen- tration of the nervous masses, which, in the more perfect species of the order, are confined en- tirely to the region of the head and thorax. This is the case even in the larva condition of some of the Lamellicornes, Scarabaida, Geotrupidte, and Melolonthida, in which the nervous masses are confined to the first five segments, and the nerves radiate from them into the abdomen, as formerly shown by Swammerdam in Oryctes nasicornis. But although an aggregation of the nervous masses into one region of the body is usually, it is not invariably, a proof or an accompaniment of high development; since a condition similar to that of the larvae of the Melolonthida exists even in some of the lowest forms of larvae of other orders, as in the larvae or common maggots of Diptera, and in some of the perfect insects, as in the Gad-fly, (Estrus equi; while, on the contrary, a lengthened