912 INSECTA. like manner that of the pro-thorax, the change which takes place between these two segments during the metamorphoses being chiefly a shortening of the sternal surface of the pro- thorax, or second segment, occasioned by a re- flexion inwards of a portion of the external tegument, to form the articulation as in other insects. If, therefore, we include the jugular pieces of Straus as the analogues of the parap- tera, the external surface of each of the three thoracic segments will be found to consist of twelve primary and readily demonstrable pieces, making in all thirty-six, the number which we believe always enters into the compo- sition of the thorax, as formerly stated by M. Jurine. But it is probable that the parts de- scribed by M. Audouin, and recognised by our- selves, are not identical with those of that author, since the scutum of the meso-thorax in Hymenoptera, as will presently be seen, and as formerly pointed out by Mr. Macleay,* is not only divided in the median line, but its two sides are also separated by a deep longitudinal fissure each into two parts, the outermost of which Mr. Macleay designates parapsides. This division of the scutum of the meso-tho- rax, if constant in the other orders, would raise the number of distinct pieces to thirty-eight. M. Audouin, who adopts the name given to these parts by Mr. Macleay, states that although he was previously well acquainted with this division of the scutum in Hymenoptera, he did not assign names to the pieces because he considered them rather as mere divisions of the scutum itself than as distinct parts of the ske- leton. The existence of these pieces, therefore, in Hymenoptera, is a circumstance connected with the number and identification of the nor- mal parts of the skeleton, which, it must be acknowledged, offers not a little difficulty, be- cause if it be ultimately found that these, which are so distinct in some genera, the Chryudida:, be in reality normal parts of the mesothorax which are thus shown to exist as such only by this segment being developed to its maximum ex- tent in this Order, it must be admitted that they also exist primarily in all other insects, not merely in the mesothorax, but in the pro- and metathorax, so that the dorsal surface of each thoracic segment must be regarded as formed not of four but of sixteen parts, the praescutum, scutellum, and post-scutellum being each divided in the same manner as the scutum into four pieces, first by a median line into two halves, and these again divided late- rally into two others. The two middle pieces would then constitute the no turn, or dorsal sur- face of each segment, and the two lateral the parapsides. An equal number of parts must then be recognised as entering into the forma- tion of the ventral arch of each segment. Each middle or sternal piece, formed of four con- secutive pieces, analogous to those of the dorsal * Zoological Journ. vol. i. arch, and divided in the median line, would correspond to the middle series of dorsal pieces, the proper notum, and a like number on each side of the sternum would correspond to the lateral portions of the dorsal arch, the parap- sides. Of these lateral pieces of the ventral arch, three are already known in each segment, as we shall presently find, the parapterun, epi- sternum, and epimeron. But since there has never yet been actually found even an approxi- mation to this multitude of pieces in the dorsal surface or arch of the thorax, we prefer for the present to follow the views of M. Audouin, and with him to regard the parapsides as only detached portions of the scutum in Hymenop- tera, in which the development of the meso- thorax is carried to its greatest extent. It must be acknowledged, however, that in admitting the parapsides to be only detached portions of the scutum, and not primary parts, the same thins may be urged with regard to some of those which, according to M. Audouin's views, are believed to be normal structures. But this objection seems to be replied to by the fact that the pieces described by M. Audouin are almost always found to exist most distinctly marked, whether developed to a greater or less extent, in the generality of insects. Thirty- six, therefore, we regard as the number of the distinct external parts of the thorax. Yet even this is more than has been recognized by others who have attended to this subject. Thus Knoch describes only twelve, Chabrier and Burmeister, eighteen ; Kirby and Spence, twenty; Straus Durckheim, twenty-two ; and Macleay, fifty-four. But whatever be considered the exact number, they are never all distinctly developed in every insect, owing to the causes before explained with reference to the greater developement of some parts than of others, al- though some trace of the existence of the atro- phied pieces usually remains. It is owing, also, to the same causes, that the actual position of the parts becomes altered in different insects, although their relative position continues the same. Very much confusion has arisen in the de- scriptions of the parts of the thorax, in conse- quence of various authors applying different names to the same parts in different insects, and also from the uncertainty which, as above shewn, exists in the opinions of authors with regard to the exact number of pieces that enter into the composition of the thorax. In order, therefore, to obviate as much as possible this serious inconvenience and difficulty in recog- nizing the parts, we shall add a table of the names given to them by Audouin, with refe- rences to the delineations of them by that author, and also the synonyms used by other writers. In doing this we shall also adopt Burmeister's very convenient names for the upper and under surface of each thoracic seg- ment, which are equally simple, and distinctive of the parts to which they are applied.