377 GASTEROPODA. GASTEROPODA, (yeumf, venter, nov<;, pes; Eng. Gasteropods; Fr. Gasteropodes; Germ. Buuchf'usser; Mollusca Rcpentia, Poli.) Definition.—An extensive class of the Mol- luscous division of the animal kingdom dis- tinguished by the structure and position of their locomotive apparatus, which consists of a mus- cular disc attached to the ventral surface of the body, serving either as an instrument by means of which the animal can crawl, or in rarer instances compressed into a muscular mem- brane useful in swimming. Characters of the class.— Body soft, enclosed in a muscular covering, which, from its contrac- tility in every direction, produces great variety in the external form of the animal : the back is covered with a mantle of greater or less extent, which in most of the geneia secretes a shell either enclosed within its substance, or, as is more frequently the case, external and suffi- ciently large to conceal and protect the whole body, in which case it is often provided with an operculum capable of closing its orifice when the animal is lodged within it. The head is anterior, distinct, and generally furnished with two, four, or six tentacles, which are placed above the oral aperture, and merely serve as instruments of touch. The eyes are two in number, and are placed sometimes on the head itself, but more generally at the base, at the side or at the extremity of the tentacles; they are always very small, and not unfre- quently wanting. The muscular disc which is subservient to locomotion is called the foot, and is generally broad and fleshy, forming a powerful sucker, bnt in some instances it takes the shape of a deep furrow, or is compressed into a vertical lamella. The respiratory appa- ratus varies in structure; in some genera it is composed of vascular ramifications which line a cavity into which the respired medium is freely admitted. Others are provided with branchiae, adapted to the respiration of water, variously disposed upon the exterior of the body, or concealed internally. The heart generally consists of an auricle and ventricle, and is systemic, or, in other words, receives the blood from the organs of respiration, and propels it through the body. The seiuul organs vary in their structure in different orders ; in the greater number each individual is possessed both of an ovigerous and impreg- nating apparatus, but copulation is essentia! to fecundity: in many the sexes are distinct, and some are hermaphrodite and self-impreg- nating. Some species are terrestrial and others aquatic. In separating the Gasteropoda into orders, the naturalist finds in the position and structure of the branchial apparatus a character suffi- ciently obvious; and as the arrangement of these organs is modified by the circumstances of each individual, and is generally in relation with the peculiarities met with in the internal organization of the animal, the branchiae are at present universally referred to as affording a convenient basis of classification. We shall in this article follow the arrangement adopted VOL. II. by Ferussac, of which, as well as of the systems of other zoologists, an outline is con- tained in the following table. Order I. NUDIBRANCHIATA* (Cuv.) Syn. Polybranchiata,-f and genus Doris, Blainville ; Gasteropodes Dermobranchcs,X Du- meril; Gasteropodes Tritoniens, Lamarck. In these the branchiae are symmetrical, as- suming a variety of forms, but always placed upon some part of the back, where they are unprotected by any covering ; the animals may be provided with a shell or naked, but they are all hermaphrodite with mutual copulation, and marine. 1st Sub-order, Anthobranchiata,\ Goldfuss; Cyclobranchiata,\\ Blainville. 1st Fam. Doris. 2d Sub-order, Polybranchiata, Blainville. 2d Fam. Tritonia, fig. 173. 3d Fam. Glaucus, fig. 174. Fig. 173. Order II. INFE ROBRANC HI A TA, (Cuv. and Blain.) Syn. Gast. Dermobranches, Dumeril; Gasi. Fhyllidkns, Lamarck. In the Inferobranchiate Gasteropods the branchiae are arranged under the inferior border of the mantle on both sides of the body, or upon one side only : the mantle sometimes contains a calcareous lamella. All the genera * Nudns, naked •, branchiae, gills, t IToXuf, maruj ; branchiae. X Aep/ua, shin. § Av0o;, a flower. || Kux'htx;, a circle. 2 c