526 REGIONS OF THE HAND. brandies to supply the pulp of the fingers. When the artery arrives at the wrist, it sends off two regular branches, the arteriae carpi ulna- res anterior et posterior, to the fore and back parts of the joint. After crossing the annular ligament, it detaches also a deep communicat- ing branch, which dips down between the flexor brevisand abductor minimi digiti, to join the deep arch from the radial. The radial artery, just below the styloid process of the radius, passes round to the back of the wrist under the two external extensors of the thumb, to the cleft between the two first metacarpal bones, where it again passes into the palm between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous, and then between the short flexor and adductor of'the thumb, to form with the communicating branch from the ulnar the deep palmar arch. In this course it lies upon the capsular and external lateral ligaments, and close upon the head of the first metacarpal bone; it is therefore generally divided in the amputation of that bone ; but it would often be avoided, were the edge of the knife kept close to the inner side of the bone, as it is carried down to the joint. Before it curves round the wrist, this artery gives off the superficialis voire, a branch which runs over the annular ligament to unite with the superficial palmar arch; also the anterior carpal branch, which anastomoses with the anterior interosseous and corresponding ulnar branch. At the back of the carpus it detaches the dorsalis carpi radialis, which inosculates with the corresponding branch from the ulnar; it runs beneath the extensor tendons, supplying the synovial membrane and the bones of the carpus ; it also anastomoses with the posterior interosseous. This branch generally sends off the metacarpal artery, which forms a kind of posterior arch across the heads of the metacarpal bones, that supplies the integuments and mter- ossei muscles ;—this metacarpal branch some- times arises from the trunk of the radial. The only remaining dorsal branches are, the arteria; dorsales pollicis, in general two distinct branches, but sometimes arising by a common trunk. They run along the dorsum of the thumb, the one on the radial, the other on its ulnar side ; this last sends a branch to the index finger, the dorsalis indicis. The radial artery then dips deep into the palm, as before described, and divides into its three terminal branches: the first is the magna pollicis, which runs along the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and at its inferior extremity divides into two collateral branches, which are distributed simi- larly to those of the fingers. The next branch is the radialis indicis, which forms the external collateral artery of that finger; it receives a branch of communication from the superficial palmar arch. Lastly, the arteria palmaris pro- funda ; this runs deeply into the palm, generally separating the flexor brevis and adductor pollicis muscles. It crosses the interossei and anterior part of the superior extremities of the metacarpal bones ; it is covered by the deep flexor tendons and lumbricales; and opposite the fifth meta- carpal bone inosculates with the communicating ulnar,—completing thus the deep palmar arch, the convexity of which is towards the fingers ; and it gives four or five regular branches, which supply the interossei, and at the clefts of the fingers anastomose with the digital branches. This arch is less oblique, and farther from the finders, than the superficial one. Thus we see that the disposition of the arteries of the hand is peculiar, and is somewhat analo- gous to that of the venous system generally,—■ viz. that they are divided into a superficial and deep set. The question naturally occurs, whe- ther it may not be for the same cause, viz. that when pressure obstructs the superficial vessels, the deep may still carry on the interrupted cir- culation? In the hand, as we have seen, the communications between the deep and super- ficial arches are frequent and free, while we daily experience with what violent and continued pressure the circulation through the superficial arch is liable to be interrupted. The varieties of the arteries of the hand are numerous : sometimes the radial predominates, at other times the ulnar, in the share they respec- tively take in supplying the hand; they are always in an inverse ratio; and if both are small, then the artery of the m. dian nerve derived from the interosseous is proportionably large. From the constant call for vigorous and rapid, as well as sustained and powerful action, the hand, with the exception of the tongue, is the most vascular of the voluntary locomotive mem- bers of the human body. The communications between its arteries are so numerous and free, as, in cases of simple wounds of this region, fre- quently to prove a source of great embarrass- ment to the surgeon, and, in unskilful hands, of danger to the patient. Wounds of the integu- ments of the palm often bleed profusely, and are liable to secondary haemorrhage. This may in some measure be accounted for by the pecu- liar density of the cellular tissue and skin, and its intimate connection with the subjacent fascia, which, as well as the numerous branches given off from the divided vessels, prevent their re- traction, nor can a coagulum easily form around them ; they are not generally vessels that require a ligature, (excepting in cases similar to one related by M. Velpeau, where the arteries of the hand were in a varicose state, and of an enormous size,) but where ordinary means fail, plugging the wound, the continued application of cold, and a tightish bandage up to the shoulder, in order to moderate the circulation in the whole limb, will usually stop even very severe bleedings. If these means should not succeed, and no large divided vessels can be seen in the wound, the surgeon must tie one or even both arteries above the wrist. The inos- culations with the interosseous will sometimes even then allow the bleeding to continue, espe- cially in cases where the median branch is large, or helps to form the arch; but pressure and cold will then soon stop the remaining haemorrhage. Veins.—The deep ones accompany their arteries; the superficial veins are very few on the palm. The lymphatics accompany the veins. The nerves of this region are superficial and