GASTEROPODA. 401 Fig. 199. Male organs of Buccirium. able by the enormous penis attached to the right side of the neck (jig. 199), which is not, as in the last division, capable of retraction within the body, but remains permanently ex- ternal, being, when not in use, folded back and lodged within the branchial cavity, from which however it is frequently protruded without any apparent object. In the female there is no rudiment of such a structure, but the generative aperture is seen to be situated a little within the edge of the pulmonary cavity, being a simple hole leading to the oviduct. The internal organs of the male, represented in the annexed figure, con- sist simply of a testicle and its excretory canal. The testis is of considerable size, sharing with the liver the smaller convolutions of the shell; from this arises the vas deferens, which forms by its convolutions a kind of epididymis (Jig. 199, b), and then increasing in diameter enters the root of the penis, through which it passes by a tortuous course (d) to the tubercle at the extremity of this organ, where it opens externally. The penis when opened, as re- presented in the engraving, is seen to contain strong transverse fasciculi of muscle, which probably cause the erection of this organ ; they will at the same time lengthen it, so as to destroy in a great measure the zig-zag turns into which the vas deferens is thrown in its usual relaxed state. In the female the position of the testicle is occupied by the ovary, while the vas deferens is represented by a thick and glandular oviduct. In Mures the penis of the male is pro- portionally smaller; and, instead of a com- plete vas deferens, penetrating to its extremity, there is merely a groove along its surface, along which the semen flows. In Voluta the ex- terior groove only runs to the base of the penis, and in Strombus the male organ is a mere tubercle. In the Pulmonalia operculaia the organs of both sexes are in every respect similar to those of the Pectinibranchiale order. In Valudina alone (Helix vivipara, Lin.) the penis is retrac- til e, issuing from ahole found in the right tentacle, and from the disparity in size between the tentacles, arising from this cause, the male is readily distinguished. The females of this genus are not unfrequently ovo-viviparous, the ova remaining in their capacious oviduct until they are hatched. Spallanzani asserts that, if the young of Paludina are taken at the moment of their birth, and kept entirely separate from others of their species, they can reproduce without im- pregnation, like the Aphides and Monoculi, in which the same connexion with the male is found to fecundate not only the female herself, but her offspring for several generations. Nevertheless, whether Spallanzani's observa- tions be correct or not, the males are fully as numerous as the females, so that it would be difficult to imagine the object of such a de- viation from the ordinary proceedings of na- ture. Ova.—The spawn of the Gasteropod Mol- lusca is found under diverse forms ; it is usually in the marine species attached to the surface of stones, shells, or sea-weed, the ova being connected with each other in long ri- bands or delicate festoons, which are some- times extremely beautiful and curious. The Doris and Tritonia deposit their ova in this manner, and the mass of eggs deposited by them resembles a frill of lace of extreme beauty. In Aplysia the spawn is found to resemble long gelatinous threads, in the centre of which the ova are seen, varying in tint, so as to give different colours to different parts of the thread; the whole strikingly resembles strings of vermicelli, and the Italians in fact have applied to them the name of vermicelli murini. In Helix and Bulimus the eggs are naked and protected by a hard shell, whilst in Buccinum, Voluta, Murex, and other marine species, the ova are enveloped in membranous sacs agglomerated together in large bunches; these sacs have been erroneously regarded as the eggs themselves; they are, however, merely coriaceous envelopes, answering the purpose of the gelatinous coating enclosing the eggs of other species, several eggs being contained in each bag, in which, when mature, the young are easily seen. It would seem that extraordinary provisions have been made by nature for the multiplication of these creatures, in spite of the numerous enemies which devour them, or the vicissitudes of temperature to which, espe- cially in the terrestrial species, their eggs are necessarily subject. We are indebted to M. Leuchs for several interesting observations concerning the ova of slugs, which explain in a great degree the quantities of them which in some seasons infest gardens and vineyards, becoming, from the devastation which they cause, serious plagues to the agriculturist. The number of eggs varies with the healthiness of the animal, the supply of food, or the tem- perature of the season ; yet it is probable that a single slug will lay five hundred, under ordinary circumstances: thus, supposing a thousand of these creatures to be collected in