FEMORAL ARTERY. 245 at a distance, varying from one to two incites, below Poupart's ligament: it descends thence backward into the inguinal region, posterior to the femoral artery, and corresponding to the muscles situate behind them in the same order as the femoral itself until it reaches the adductor longus : it then passes behind that muscle and continues its descent between it and the adductor magnus, until after it has given oft' its last perforating branch, when it also perforates the magnus at the lower part of the middle third of the thigh, and finally is distributed to the short head of the biceps and the vastus externus, gives to the femur its in- ferior nutritious artery, and anastomoses with the descending branches of the external cir- cumflex artery, and with branches of the pop- liteal. During its descent the profunda recedes from the surface more than the femoral artery, so that it lies nearer to the bottom of the in- guinal space, and when placed directly behind it, is separated from that vessel by an interval, which is occupied by the femoral, the pro- funda, and the circumflex veins. It is accom- panied by a corresponding single vein of con- siderable size, the profunda vein, which in the upper part of the thigh is situate before the artery, intervening, as has been mentioned, between it and the femoral artery. It is con- tained at first within the same sheath with the femoral; but it is presently received into a proper sheath, an offset from the back of that which encloses the other vessel. It has not an immediate relation to any nerve. Such are the general relations of the pro- funda artery ; but it presents frequent varieties, which derive importance from the practical connections of the femoral vessels. The par- ticulars, in which it is subject to diversity, are the precise situation and relation of its point of origin, and the relation of its course to that of the femoral artery. The profunda arises generally, as has been stated, from the posterior and outer side of the femoral; but at times its origin is directly behind that vessel, at others directly from its outer side, and occasionally again from its inner side, as may be seen from fig. 3, tab. xxxiii. of Tiedemann. The situation of its origin also is variable, at times being close to Poupart's ligament, at others at some distance from it. According to Boyer* it corresponds to " the middle of the space comprised be- tween the pubis and the little trochanter; sometimes higher, but rarely lower." Accord- ing to Scarpa,f the division of the femoral artery takes place " at the distance of one inch, or one and a half, very rarely two inches, below the crural arch in a well-formed adult, of the ordinary stature." According to Har- rison,! the profunda arises " in general about two inches below Poupart's ligament, some- times an inch or two lower down, and some- times much nearer to this ligament." Of those • Traite complct d'Anatomie, torn- iii. p. 150. t Treatise on Aneurism, Wishart's translation, P. 3. t Op. eit. vol. ii. p. 144. three accounts that of Scarpa appears pre- ferable : the " distance between the pubis and the lesser trochanter" is variable, and affords no guide for the living subject, and the author has never witnessed the origin of the vessel by any means so far from Poupart's ligament as the statement of Harrison would imply: a distance of four inches, which may be un- derstood from it sometimes to occur, would bring the origin down to the point at which the sartorius generally commences to overlap the femoral artery, and this is manifestly alto- gether too low; while on the other hand Scarpa* states expressly that it is never below the maximum point which he has laid down, viz. two inches from the ligament, and Hodg- sonf asserts that " it very rarely arises so lew as two inches." The maximum distance im- plied in the description of Harrison is that which has been laid down by Bell as the me- dium point of origin, on which BurnsJ re- marks, " I infer that Mr. Bell has described this artery from dried preparations, in which, from the retraction of Poupart's ligament, the origin of the profunda seems to take place lower than on the recent subject." The only objection which can be made to the view of Scarpa, is that the vessel not unfrequently arises nearer to the ligament than one inch from it, its origin being at times abso- lutely at it, and having been in some few instances observed even above the ligament, before the femoral had escaped from the ab- domen, or more properly from the external iliac artery: of this extraordinarily high origin four instances have been recorded by Burns,§ and Tiedemann || has met with it in a female, upon both sides. Tiedemann^ has also in- ferred from his researches that the profunda arises nearer than usual to Poupart's ligament more frequently in females and in subjects of small stature than in others. The relation of the course of the profunda to that of the femoral is the next point of variety. The main course of the former is external to that of the latter; in arriving at its destination, however, it does not at all times pursue an uniform course, but presents diversities in this re>pect, which affect very much its relation to the femoral artery. Its general direction is downward, backward, and outward ; still more outward than the femoral: it is seldom how- ever direct, but describes one or more inflec- tions, by which its course is made at times to cross once or oftener that of the other vessel; and hence the diversities in its relation to the femoral which have been adverted to. When the course of the vessel is direct or little tor- tuous, the profunda is situate throughout, external to the femoral, and this relation would appear to prevail at least as frequently as any • Op. cit. p. 328. t Treatise on Diseases of Arteries and Veins, p. 434. X On Diseases of the Heart, &c. p. 319, 20. i Ibid. [I JExplicalio Tabulanim Arteriaruin, p. 323. f Ibid.