MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. 358 the first phalanx of the great toe, the others are united to the outer edge of the long ten- dons, with which they form the aponeurosis which covers the dorsum of each toe. The obliquity of this short muscle counteracts the obliquity of the long extensor, and it serves to extend and to spread the toes, and to pull them away from the great toe. 2. Interossei dorsales vel externi.—These are four in number, and arise by double heads, that is, they arise from both the contiguous metatarsal bones, here occupying the whole of the interosseal space, and thus concealing the internal interossei, which are seen only in the sole. Their flat tendon unites with that of the long and short extensors, and is inserted into the side of the bases of the first phalanges of the toes in such a manner that, with internal interossei, every toe has one of these little muscles on each side of it, except the first toe, which has two distinct muscles of its own for the same action, and the little toe, which is provided with a separate abductor. Their use is to separate the toes, and perhaps to assist in extending them. In the sole of the foot the inner side is occupied by the muscles of the great toe, con- stituting what some French writers call the thenar eminence. These muscles are as fol- lows:— 1. Abductor pollicis pedis.—This commences, by a tendinous and fleshy origin, from the tu- bercle on the under and fore part of the os calcis, from the ligament extending between the os calcis and os naviculare, and from the fascia plantaris. Its tendon unites with the flexor brevis pollicis, and is inserted into the internal sesamoid bone, and inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. It draws the great toe from the others. 2. Flexor brevis pollicis.—Lies between the abductor and adductor, in contact with the me- tatarsal bone. It arises, by two portions, from the under and fore part of the os calcis, and from the external cuneiform bone. It is united, on each side, to the abductor and the adductor, and is inserled with these, by a union of ten- dons, into the two sesamoid bones and base of the first phalanx of the great toe, having the tendon of the long flexor passing between the two insertions. 3. Adductor pollicis.—This muscle, which is si- tuated the most externally, or fibulad, of the mus- cles of the great toe, commences by a tendinous origin, from the calcaneo-cuboid ligament, and from one or two of the metatarsal bones. It is double at first, and then uniting, sends a tendon to be fixed into the external sesamoid bone and outer or fibular side of the base of the first pha- lanx of the great toe, in close connexion with the flexor brevis. It draws the toe towards the others. The muscles of the little toe are situ- ated on the outer edge of the foot, and form, in that situation, a corresponding eminence, which has been called the hypothenar eminence. 1. Abductor minimi digiti.-—This arises from the outer, under, and fore part of the os calcis, and from the fascia plantaris. It forms a long slender belly, and is fixed by its tendon into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe, and head of its metatarsal bone. It flexes and abducts the little toe, and, by its attachment to the metatarsal bone, it strengthens the arch of the foot, which indeed may be said of almost all the muscles of the foot. 2. Flexor brevis minimi digiti commences from the os cuboides and base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and lying close to this bone, it is inserted into the base of the first phalanx. It is a very small muscle, and its use is to flex the toe. The middle of the plantar region is occupied by six muscles common to all the smaller toes. 1. Flexor brevis digitorum, called also per- forate.—This muscle arises, fleshy, from the anterior part of the protuberance of the os calcis, also from the inner surface of the plantar fascia, both from its central thick portion and from the septa, which run between this muscle and those of the great and little toes. Under the metatarsus it sends off four small tendons, which, entering the sheath on the under side of the four outer toes, are inserted into their second phalanx. Before these tendons arrive at the point of insertion each of them splits, to allow the passage of the tendon of the long flexor, in a manner similar to what takes place in the hand, and they thus have a double inser- tion into the toe. The action of this muscle is to flex the second joint of the four lesser toes. 2. Flexor digitorum accessorius, or massa carnea Jacobi Sylvii.—This is a short muscle, somewhat square in form, covered by the flexor brevis digitorum. It arises, fleshy, from the sinuosity of the os calcis, and tendinous from the outer side of the same part; it is attached anteriorly to the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, just before it divides. Its use is, evi- dently, to assist the action of the long flexor. 3. Lumbricales.-—These slender round mus- cles are found between the tendons of the long flexor of the toes; they arise from these tendons just after their division, and fix their own tendon into the inner or tibial side of the first phalanges of the four outer toes; they act by bending the first joint of these toes. 4. Interossei plantares vel interni.—These are three in number, smaller than the external, and having their origin each from only one me- tatarsal bone. Their insertion and action have been mentioned when speaking of the external interossei. 5. Transversalis pedis.—This little muscle is situated across the heads of the metatarsal bones, passing from the fibular side of the great toe to the tibial side of the little one, and at- tached to them all as it passes over them. It goes under the tendons of the long flexors and the lumbricales, or rather between them and the bones. Its action is to draw the metatarsal bones together, thus to consolidate, as it were, and strengthen that antero-posterior arch,which, were its parallel portions allowed to spread out unchecked, would be materially weakened, and be less able to encounter the violent movements to which the foot is liable in leaping, running, &c. We shall now enumerate the muscles which