706 HERMAPHRODITISM. -Fig. 299. M. Bouillaud's statement) two bodies in some sort fibrous, and perhaps intermediate in their structure between ovaries and testicles, were found along with two Fallopian tubes (Jig. 299, g g), having each a fimbriated ex- tremity at one end, and opening by the other into the cavity of an uterus (Jt) which occupied the usual situation of that organ in the female, and opened inferiorly into a kind of vagina (e). The internal surface of the uterus showed the usual arborescent wrinkles of this organ in the unimpregnated state ; the os tinea; was regularly formed ; the vagina was about two inches long, and of a middle size, and presented internally numerous ridges, such as are met with in virgins. This canal, when opposite the neck of the bladder at /', became much contracted, and was continued downwards in the form of a small tube to the membraneous portion of the urethra, into which it entered by a narrow orifice. The broad ligaments of the uterus were normally formed ; the round ligaments passed through the inguinal canal accompanied each by an artery larger than that of the correspond- ing one in the female sex. The external appearance and form of Valmont are described by M. Bouillaud as having been intermediate between those of the male and female sex. The stature was short; the mam- mary glands and nipples were well developed; the face was bearded; but the general phy- siognomy was still delicate. The body was fat; the hands and feet were small; the pelvis was shallow; and the haunches were wider than in a well-formed man. C. Double or vertical hermaphroditism.— In the two divisions or orders of true herma- phroditism which have been already considered, we have seen re-united upon the body of the same individual more or fewer of the organs of the two sexes, but so arranged as not neces- sarily at least to present the occurrence of actual duplicity in any of the corresponding male and female parts. In both lateral and trans- verse hermaphroditism the type of the sexual apparatus is in fact single in so far that it con- sists, in almost all cases, in the presence at one part of an organ or organs differing in sexual type from those that are present at other parts, without there necessarily co-existing at any one point the two corresponding male and female organs. In the present or third variety, however, of true hermaphroditism, we come to a tendency to actual sexual duplicity, in the co-existence of two or more of the ana- logous organs of the two sexes upon the same side, or in the same vertical line of the body. For, supposing we viewed, either from before or behind, the reproductive organs belonging to the two sexes all stretched out upon the same erect plane, so that their corresponding organs should be exactly superimposed upon one another,—as the two female ovaries upon the two male testicles, the Fallopian tubes upon the vasa deferentia, the uterus upon the vesi- cular seminales and prostate gland, &c,—we should find in vertical or double hermaphro- ditism more or fewer of those analogous organs of the two sexes that were thus placed upon one another, and that consequently lay in the same vertical line, or upon the same side of the body, co-existing together at the same time upon the same individual. Double, vertical, or complex hermaphro- ditism differs much in variety and degree in different cases, from the imperfect repetition of two only of the corresponding organs of the male and female upon the same body, to the reunion or co-existence of almost all the genital organs of both sexes upon one individual. For the purpose of contrasting and collect- ing together as much as possible the more ana- logous cases, we shall arrange the instances of double hermaphroditism under three genera or divisions; the first including cases in which there co-existed a female uterus and male vesi- cular seminales, with a general female type; the second, those in which a female uterus, occasionally provided with Fallopian tubes, was added to an organization that was in other respects essentially male; and the third com- prehending all examples in which ovaries and testicles are alleged to have been repeated toge- ther upon one or both sides of the body. Other divisions of double hermaphroditism may be- come necessary under the accumulation of new varieties of cases, but we believe it will be possible to arrange all the instances hitherto recorded under one or other of the above di- visions. In classifying and describing these instances we shall in the meanwhile offer no observations on the probable anatomical mis- takes that have been committed in the exami-