FACE. 211 downwards, outwards, and backwards, from the angle of union of the posterior borders of the vertical and horizontal plates of the bone. This process is the pterygoid or pyramidal, and presents three grooves behind, viz. one internal and one external, (of which the inner is the deeper,) for the reception of the anterior borders of the lower extremity of the pterygoid plates ; and a middle triangular groove extending high up, and which forms a part of the pterygoid fossa. The outer surface of this process is rough, and is articulated with the upper maxillary bone : its apex is continuous with the external pterygoid plate. The inferior border is united to the horizon- tal plate. The superior border presents a deep semi- circular notch (sometimes a hole), which with the sphenoid bone above forms the spheno- palatineforamen. This notch divides the upper border into two processes, 1. the posterior (the sphenoidal); 2. the anterior (the orbitar). The sphenoidal process is curved inwards and back- wards, and has three surfaces, 1. an internal or nasal, forming part of the cavity of the nose; 2. an external, which forms below the spheno- palatine foramen the deep wall of the pterygo- maxillary fissure; 3. an upper, which is con- cave and rests against the body of the sphenoid bone, and contributes to the pterygo-palatine canal. The orbitar process stands upwards and outwards on a narrow neck, and presents five surfaces. 1. The anterior (or maxillary) arti- culates with the upper maxillary bone. 2. The internal (or ethmoidal) forms a cell which unites with those of the ethmoid. 3. A posterior (or sphenoidal) presents a cell uniting with the sphenoid, and communicating with its sinuses. 4. The superior (or orbitar), which is smooth and contributes to form the floor of the orbit: its posterior border forms a part of the spheno- maxillary fissure, and separates the orbitar sur- face from, 5. the external or zygomatic, which looks into the pterygo-maxillary fissure. Connexions.— Each palate bone articulates with five bones, viz. two of the cranium, the sphenoid and the ethmoid ; and with three of the face, the upper maxillary, the inferior turbi- nated, and the vomer, besides its fellow bone of the opposite side. It is lined with the buccal and pituitary membrane. It contributes to form the cavities of the mouth, nose, and orbit; the pterygo-maxillary fissure, and the zygomatic and pterygoid fossae. It gives attachment to the soft palate, and passage to the spheno-palatine, pterygo-palatine, and posterior palatine vessels and nerves; also to the two pterygoid muscles, the circumflexus palati, the levator uvulae, the palato-glossus, and the palato-pharyngeus. The structure is compact, except at its pte- rygoid process, where it is cancellous. Developement.—It is complete at birth, ex- cept that the vertical plate is short to corre- spond with the short vertical diameter of the upper maxillary. About the third month ossification appears in a single point, at the junction of the two plates with the pyramidal process. Malar bones (ossa mala- v. malaria v. zygo- matica ; Fr. os de la pommette; Germ, die Jochbeine oder Backenbeine).—These bones, corresponding in situation to the prominence of the cheeks, are somewhat of a quadrilateral figure. Each presents three surfaces; 1. an external ox facial; 2. an internal or temporo- zygomatic ; 3. a superior or orbitar. There are besides four borders and four angles. The facial surface forms the eminence of the cheek, looks outwards and forwards, is smooth and slightly convex in front, and is marked by one or more small holes (malar foramina), which give passage to vessels and nerves. It is covered above by the integuments and the orbi- cularis palpebrarum, and below and externally it gives attachment to the zygomatic muscles. The temporo-zygomatic surface is smooth and concave below ; and internally there is a rough surface which rests on the malar process of the upper maxillary : about the centre or to- wards the upper part of this surface is observed the internal orifice of a malar canal or a malar hole. The temporal muscle is attached to this surface. The orbitar surface is smooth, concave, and is formed upon a plate of bone (the orbitar process), which stands inwards, and contributes to the outer wall and floor of the orbit: its op- posite surface above makes part of the tempo- ral fossa. On the orbitar surface we observe the orifice of a malar canal. The orbitar pro- cess has an irregular summit, which receives the frontal bone ; below, it is articulated with the outer border of the orbitar plate of the sphenoid; in the middle it corresponds to the extremity of the spheno-maxillary fissure ; and inferiorly it is united to the outer border of the orbitar plate of the upper maxillary bone. Of the four borders two are anterior and two posterior. The anterior superior, or the orbi- tar, is smooth, concave, and forms the outer and lower third of the base of the orbit. The anterior inferior, or the maxillary, rests upon the malar process of the upper maxilla from its extremity to the inferior orbitar foramen. The posterior superior, or temporal border, is waved like the letter S, and gives attachment to the temporal fascia. The posterior inferior, or masseteric border, is thick, and gives attach- ment to a muscle of the same name. The four angles are, 1. thick, rough, superior or frontal, which receives the external angular process of the frontal bone; 2. the interior or orbitar, which is pointed ; and, 3. the inferior or malar, which is round, and forms the extremities of the maxillary border, and which rests on the malar process of that bone. The posterior or zygomatic is cut obliquely from above down- wards and backwards, and supports the zygo- matic process of the temporal bone. Connexions.—The malar is connected with and locked between four bones, viz. the frontal, the sphenoid, the upper maxillary, and the temporal. It contributes to form the orbit, the temporal, and the zygomatic fossae. It gives attachment to four muscles, viz. the temporal, the masseter, and the two zygomatic; and it gives passage to malar vessels and nerves.