357 MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. now can be more evident or more beautiful than the design manifested in this simple arrangement of the foot! Man is physically as well as morally intended to carry him- self erect. The breadth of his base was ne- cessary for his continued support; the strength of it is called for on account of the great weight which erect progression throws upon it. Its arches were essential not only to give lodgment and defence to the vessels and nerves of the plantar region, but, by the peculiarity of their construction, to admit of a certain degree of elastic yielding, which greatly dimi- nishes the shocks from violent efforts in leaping, running, &c. The shortness of the toes, aug- mented by the depth of the webs, shows that pre- hension forms no part of the design of the foot, while the size of the first toe, and its connexion with the others, points it out as the principal instrument of progression, to which the rest are auxiliary. The analogies between the foot and the hand are striking; they have the same general arrangement of bones and muscles, and even the arteries and nerves, the joints and ligaments, are in many respects similar, but in the particulars just mentioned the dif- ference is strikingly obvious and important, and just in these respects it is that the feet of the Quadrumana also differ from those of man, showing a difference in their intended action, the erect position, at the utmost being only occasional, not being the natural habit, but the foot being prepared and adapted for grasping and clinging, for which the human foot is quite unfit. The construction of the arches of the foot requires a few words. They are two in number, a transverse and a longitudinal one. The latter of these is principally found along the inner edge of the foot, and as we pass towards the outer side the longitudinal arch gradually shortens and becomes more flattened, until at the outer side the arch is entirely lost, the bones of the tarsus and metatarsus resting through their whole length upon the ground. This is to a certain degree necessary from the construction of the toes, these being weaker and shorter, as well as their metatarsal bones, as they are further from the great toe; as their strength therefore diminishes, the corresponding part of the arch is shortened and flattened, and, consequently, less strain is thrown upon them, until, at the line of the little toe, the arch is obliterated, and what weight is resting here comes at once upon the ground. But from this construction it follows that the longest and the highest line of this arch falls upon the strongest metatarsal bone and longest toe, and that whatever yielding there is occurring in the entire longitudinal arch is greatest in this part of it. This is, indeed, proved by the fact that the length of the foot in a sound state is in- creased in the line of the great toe to the extent of several lines, by resting the weight of the body upon the foot, whereas it is not at all increased in the line of the little toe. When, therefore, the arch yields to the superincumbent pressure, it does so chiefly along the inner side, and the foot is thus, to a certain degree, twisted, the inner malleolus approached nearer to the ground, while the outer is very little, if at all, lowered. This explains to us the reason of the scaphoid and inner cuneiform bones projecting as they do in the flat foot, and of the pain ex- perienced on the inner side of the foot in the same deformity in all efforts to raise the heel in walking. It may also in some degree account for the fact of the more frequent occurrence of dislocation of the tibia at the ankle-joint in- wards than outwards, the arch of the foot yielding first to the force of the accident on the inner side, and thus tilting the whole ankle- joint inwards. The utility in walking of the form and relation of the various parts of the foot now mentioned is readily seen when we unite the consideration of the structure of this arch with the combined action of the gastro- cnemii upon the heel, and of the peroneus longus upon the outer side of the foot. The united action of these muscles throws and sustains the whole weight upon the strongest and most elastic part. Whatever has been said of the utility of the longitudinal arch applies equally to the trans- verse arch, which is supplementary and auxiliary to the former in all its uses. (A. T. S. Dodd.) FOOT, MUSCLES OF THE.—In speaking of the muscles of the foot we necessarily under- stand not merely those muscles which are si- tuated upon the foot, but those muscles pecu- liarly belonging to it, which are concerned in producing its motions wherever situated. The muscles of the foot, in this sense, are partly situated upon the leg and partly upon the foot, and should, in a physiological view, be consi- dered together, that we may the better under- stand their separate and combined functions. We shall therefore, in this, as in other ana- tomical articles, first give the descriptive anatomy of the muscles situated upon the foot, and then examine their functions in connexion with those others whose action is upon the joints of the foot, and which are therefore strictly muscles of the foot, but which are anatomically described elsewhere. (See Leg, Muscles of the.) The proper muscles of the foot are, 1. those on the dorsum ; 2. those on the sole. The muscles on the dorsum pedis are the ex- tensor brevis digitorum and the dorsal interossei. 1. The extensor brevis digitorum (Fr. pe- dieux).—This is a short flat muscle, situated upon the outer side of the tarsus and meta- tarsus. It arises by fleshy and tendinous fibres from the upper and anterior part of the os calcis, in thp hollow between that bone and the astragalus (creux astrugalo-calcanien), also partly from the os cuboides. It immediately forms a broad fleshy belly, the fibres of which pass forwards and inwards, and divide into four portions, from each of which proceeds a slender tendon. These four tendons, of which the two internal are the strongest, cross under those of the long extensor of the toes, opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones. Of these tendons the internal is inserted into the base of