GENERATION. 437 there receives its food by the mouth and is nourished by digestion at an early period of its advancement; and, although its external form and organization very much resemble that of the foetus of other mammiferous animals at a similar stage of their advancement when they are still confined to the uterus of the mother, their internal organization undergoes at the time of their exclusion the same remarkable changes which occur at birth, and which are connected with aerial respiration and the independence of the vital functions.* Monotrematous generation.—The generation of the Ornithorynchus and other monotrema- tous animals deserves also to be noticed here as differing in some respects from that of other Mammalia; but, unfortunately, this subject, which has been involved in obscurity ever since the first discovery of these remarkable animals, notwithstanding that several important facts have been recently ascertained, cannot be con- sidered as completely understood. The Orni- thorynchus and Echidna were long regarded as holding an intermediate place in respect to their organization between Mammalia and Birds. The existence of mammary glands was denied by the first dissectors of these animals ; and from this circumstance principally, toge- ther with the analogy in general structure al- ready alluded to, the Ornithorynchus was be- lieved by many to be oviparous. The recent investigations of Owen have proved the ex- istence of mammary glands as well as the suckling of the young, while they at the same time shew that the generative organs and the ova within the ovaries partake in a great degree of the oviparous structured In this approach to the oviparous type, however, it has been satisfactorily shewn that the Ornithorynchus resembles the class of Reptiles rather than that of Birds. The ova of this animal have not, how- ever, been found in any of its haunts; and, although no one has yet had an opportunity of dissecting the gravid uterus, naturalists are now inclined to hold the opinion that it bears its young alive. Should this be fully proved to be the case, the Ornithorynchus may with justice be considered as an example among mammiferous animals of the ovo-viviparous form of generation, most analogous to that occurring in the Slow-worm or Adder; the ovum being, at the time of its descent into the oviduct, of proportionally large size, and there being no proper placenta or intimate organic union between the mother and foetus. Comparison of animal and vegetable repro- * For the details respecting the structure and functions of the generative organs of the Marsu- piata, the mode of passage of the embryo from the uterus to the pouch, see the article upon the Com- parative Anatomy of these animals, MARSUPIATA. It is curious to note that until the discovery of the uterus of these animals by Tyson, the vaguest conjectures prevailed respecting their mode of reproduction, it being even supposed by some that the foetus grew from the first attached to the nipple, and consequently originated as a bud. t The name of Monotremata applied to these animals, it may be remarked, means with (me vent, they having a cloaca. duction.—In concluding this rapid sketch, it may not be out of place to introduce here a few remarks upon the analogies existing be- tween animal and vegetable reproduction. The seed of plants is generally regarded as corresponding to the egg of animals. The seed and egg correspond in being both the residence of the germ or living part from which the new organized body springs, and also in both containing a certain quantity of matter destined for the temporary nourishment of the growing embryo; but the germ is in a different state in the seed and egg; for while in the egg none of the parts of the new being are visible at the time of its separation from the parent, the rudiments of the embryo are fre- quently to be found, small but simulating in some degree the plant, in the germ of the seed when it is perfected, and before the commencement of germination. The circumstances favourable to evolution give rise to the development of the embryo in both, but in the animal the influence of the male conferring fecundity on the egg makes no perceptible alteration in the germ, while in the plant no part of the seed, neither cotyledon nor germ, is formed unless fecundation by the pollen of the male takes place; and the seed is not separated from the ovary or place of its production until the rudimentary parts of the embryo are already sketched out. We have examples of non-sexual repro- duction of plants among the Cryptogamia, in which the new plant springs from sporules or granules endowed with the independent vital properties of the seed. The greater number of monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants may be regarded as hermaphrodite, as both the seeds and pollen are formed on the same individual, while in others the position of the sexual organs on distinct individuals corresponds with the more common arrangement in the animal king- dom.* In different tribes of plants we also observe examples of occasional propagation in a man- ner different from the more common one by seeds or sporules. Thus the buds and branches, which are the means of their ordinary growth and increase, may,when removed, be capable of independent existence and give rise to distinct plants, or even when still on the parent stock may take root and grow anew. Some buds separate naturally and are evolved in the man- ner of seeds when placed in favourable circum- stances ; and in a third class of instances sepa- rated buds are preserved in the collections of nutrient matter constituting the tuberous and bulbous roots by which many plants are pro- pagated. To complete the enumeration of the points of analogy between animal and vegetable re- production, it may be stated that there is the same reason for believing in the spontaneous generation of some of the Cryptogamic plants as in that of Infusorial animals. * As in strictly Hermaphrodite, Monoecious, and Dioecious plants.