341 BONES OF THE FOOT. whose long axis is vertical, it is articulated with the anterior and internal part of the navi- cular bone, and in front a large and irregular, slightly concave articular facet adapts it to the posterior extremity of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Its inner surface is convex and rough for ligamentous insertion ; on it, towards its anterior part, we observe an impression, sometimes an eminence, for the insertion of the tibialis anticus tendon; and its plantar surface, the base of the wedge, is thick and prominent, and affords insertion to ligamentous fibres as well as to those of the tibialis posticus tendon. The external surface is articulated in front with the second metatarsal bone, and behind with the middle cuneiform, by means of an oblong articular facet, which extends along the upper part of this surface from before backwards parallel to the acute edge. The remainder of the external surface is rough for ligamentous insertion, excepting a small por- tion about the sixth of an inch broad, which, extending along the posterior edge, is articular and continuous with the posterior surface of the bone. The middle or second cuneiform bone is the smallest of the three; its base is uppermost, rough and convex; its posterior surface is tri- angular with the base superior; it is articular and adapted to the middle facet on the anterior surface of the navicular; its anterior surface is also triangular and articulated with the second metatarsal bone; its inner surface is articular along its upper and posterior edges, and rough in the remainder of its extent; this surface is in contact with the inner cuneiform. The outer surface is articular along half of its upper edge and the whole of its posterior, but rough in the remainder, and by means of the articular portions is connected with the external cunei- form bone. The external or third cuneiform bone is second in point of size ; it is bounded on the outside by the cuboid, behind by the navicular, on the inside by the middle cuneiform, and in front by the third metatarsal bone. Its pos- terior and anterior surfaces are both plane and articular, the one for the navicular, the other for the third metatarsal bone. The base of the wedge is situated on the dorsal surface of the foot, and is rough. The internal surface presents at its posterior edge a facet for arti- culation with the middle cuneiform, and in front another for the second metatarsal; the re- mainder is non-articular. The external surface presents, towards its upper and posterior angle, a plane triangular facet, which is adapted to a similar one on the inner surface of the cuboid, but in the rest of its extent it is rough and non- articular. Structure of the tarsal bones.—Like all the short bones, those of the tarsus are composed of a mass of spongy tissue surrounded by a thin and papyraceous layer of compact. Hence these bones are remarkable for their extreme lightness. Developement. — In the third month the cartilaginous framework of these bones is already apparent. The largest two begin to ossify before birth; the os calcis commences at from the fifth to the seventh month, by a single point of ossification situate about the middle of the bone rather nearer to its anterior part, and the ossification is not completed till eight or ten years after birth, when another point appears in the posterior part of the bone, and by the extension of it to the first point, which is finished about the fifteenth year, the process is completed. The ossification of the astragalus commences about the sixth month. The cuboid and navi- cular begin to ossify immediately after birth by one point each, and the three cuneiform bones are ossified, the internal about the end of the first year, the middle and external about the fourth year. II. Metatarsus (der Mittelfuss).—This seg- ment of the foot is composed of five bones placed parallel to each other in front of the tarsus, with which their posterior extremities are articulated. These bones are distinguished numerically, counting from within outwards ; a distinct interosseous space intervenes between each pair of bones, which in the recent state is filled by muscle. From the arched form of the tarsus, the metatarsus naturally takes a similar arrangement by reason of its articula- tion with it, and consequently we observe that it is convex on its dorsal surface and concave on its plantar. The metatarsal bones possess certain general characters in common; they belong to the class of long bones, and consequently each has its shaft and two extremities. The shaft in all is prismatic, slightly curved, convex on the dor- sal, concave on the plantar surface; two of the surfaces of the shaft are lateral, and correspond to interosseous spaces; the third is superior, and corresponds to the dorsum of the foot. The posterior or tarsal extremity of each metatarsal bone is wedge-shaped, the base of the wedge being on the dorsal aspect. Three articular facets may be noticed on each, ex- cepting the first and fifth. The posterior of these is triangular and plane, articulated with the tarsal bones; the remaining two are lateral, and adapted to corresponding ones on the metatarsal bones on each side. The anterior or digital extremity of each metatarsal bone presents an articular head or condyle, flattened upon the sides, oblong from above downwards, and much more extended inferiorly or in the direction of flexion than superiorly or in that of extension. This is articulated with the posterior extremity of the metatarsal phalanx. On each side of the con- dyle there is a depression, and behind that an eminence to which the lateral ligament of the metatarso-phalangeal joint is attached. In addition to the characters above men- tioned, there are certain special characters belonging to particular metatarsal bones which enable us to distinguish them from each other. The first, or metatarsal of the great toe, is distinguished, 1. by its considerable size and its being the shortest of the five bones; 2. its tarsal extremity is semilunar and concave, and has no lateral articular facet; 3. its digital*