742 HERNIA. again can scarcely exist for any length of time without producing some inflammation, and thence it follows that it is rare to meet with an old hernia in which adhesions have not formed either between the intestine and the sac, or between the convolutions of the protruded viscera, circumstances that must render it im- possible to replace the hernia, or supposing it replaced by force, will be likely to occasion incarcerations within the cavity of the abdomen itself. These adhesions, as discovered either during operation, or by dissection after death, are of different degrees of closeness, firmness, and tenacity, and have been arranged under three classes, the gelatinous, the membranous, and the fleshy. "The gelatinous adhesion, a very general consequence of the adhesive inflammation which attacks membranous parts placed in mutual contact, is only formed by a certain quantity of coagulable lymph, effused from the surface of the inflamed parts, which coagulating assumes sometimes the appearance of a vesi- cular reddish substance stained with blood, sometimes of threads or whitish membranes easily separable from the parts between which they are interposed and which they unite to- gether, without any abrasion or laceration being produced by the separation, on the surface of the parts agglutinated together."* This kind of adhesion being the result of recent inflam- mation can rarely be met with in operations performed for the relief of strangulated hernia, for the condition of a viscus so engaged is that in which such an effusion would be unlikely, if not impossible. Its vessels are loaded and congested with venous blood : there is effusion of serum to a greater or less quantity, as is seen in every instance of obstructed venous circu- lation ; and if there is recent lymph, it must be owing to the fortuitous circumstance of the viscus having been inflamed immediately before it became strangulated. In a vast number of cases operated on, I have seen but one instance of the existence of this soft adhesion, and in that the hernia was not strangulated : it was a case (such as is related by Pott) of inflammation affecting the intestines generally, in which those within the hernial sac, of course, participated. The membranous and fleshy adhesions are the results of former attacks of inflammation, and are exactly similar to those attachments so frequently met with between serous surfaces in other situations. When the opposed surfaces lie motionless and undisturbed, their connexion is firm and fleshy, and hence this kind of adhe- sion is seen at the neck of the sac, between the omentum and the sac, and occasionally between the intestine and the testicle in congenital hernia; whilst between the convolutions of the intestine itself, or between it and the sac, any union that exists is more generally loose and membranous. Besides adhesion, there are many other causes that may render a hernia irreducible, one of the most prominent of which is the patient's neglect in leaving the hernia down, * Scarpa, p. 180. and the alterations in shape and structure that thence ensue. In such case, the parts within the tumour, as the mesentery and omentum, have room to increase, whilst at the mouth of the sac they remain constricted and of their natural size, though condensed and solidified in structure. This happens particularly with the omentum, which becomes hard, very dense, and compact, and not unfrequently resembles a fibrous structure covered by a fine smooth membrane, and then there is within the sac a tumour actually much larger than the aperture it would have to pass, and through which no force could be capable of pushing it. It may happen that the part of the omentum which is below the stricture shall remain loose and expanded, and enjoy its natural structure, whilst that which is lodged within the neck of the sac is compressed and hardened, in which case the hernia will probably prove irreducible. It sometimes happens that scirrhus of the intestine renders a hernia irreducible. Such a malignant alteration of structure is by no means frequent in the intestinal tube—certainly far less so than in the omentum, but the possibility of the occurrence is proved by a case under my own immediate superintendence. The patient had a large hernia which he had been able occasionally to reduce, but which was usually left down. On a sudden he was attacked with symptoms of strangulation, small quick pulse, tenderness of the abdomen, acute pain in the tumour, constipation, general low fever and fcecal vomiting. The operation was performed, and the cause of the symptoms found not to have been in the situation of the neck of the sac, which was more than commonly open and free, but in a scirrhus of one of the lesser intestines.* The form of hernia already noticed as being apparently devoid of a sac has been mentioned by Pottf as one peculiarly difficult of reduc- tion. " They have consisted of the coecum with its appendicula and a portion of the colon. Nor," continues this distinguished surgeon," will the size, disposition, and irregular figure of this part of the intestinal canal appear upon due consideration a very improbable cause of the difficulty or impossibility of reduction by the hand only." The last circumstance to be considered as rendering a rupture irreducible is the absolute size of the tumour and the quantity of viscera it contains. It is amazing to what extent the contents of the abdomen may be protruded from it, and the patient nevertheless enjoy a state of health that might be called good, so far as the annoyance of such a tumour could warrant the expression. Every surgeon must have heard of hernia? in which all the loose intestines were protruded, and in fact every thing that could with any degree of probability be supposed to have been capable of being pushed from the cavity of the abdomen. I * The preparation of this interesting case is in the Museum of the Medico-Chirurgical School, Park Street, Dublin. f Pott, op. cit. p. 24.