635 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HEART. normal formations by excess. Thus, four or even five valves are occasionally found in the pulmonary artery more frequently than in the aorta. The supernumerary valves are always small, and sometimes appear to have been formed at the expense of the next normal one. Anomalous connexion of the vessels of the heart. — Our space will only permit us to enumerate the principal observed varieties. 1. The aorta or pulmonary artery, or both, appear to arise equally from both ventricles, the septum of the ventricles being more or less deficient. 2. The aorta may arise from the right ventricle, and the pulmonary artery from the left, the veins preserving their natural posi- tion. 3. The vena azygos opens into the right auricle. 4. The hepatic veins open into the right auricle. 5. The ductus arteriosus opens into the right ventricle. 6. Two superior vena cava open into the right auricle. 7. Very rarely the right auricle gives insertion to one or more pulmonary veins, and on the other hand the left auricle receives sometimes the superior vena cava, and at other times the inferior. 8. Meckel states that he has seen the great coronary vein of the heart to open into the left ventricle.* Professor JefFray, of Glas- gow, relates a case in which the inferior cava opened into the upper part of the right auricle, taking the course as well as the place of the vena azygos. On displacement or ectopia of the heart as a consequence of disease.—The most common cause of morbid displacement of the heart is an effusion of air or liquid into one of the pleural cavities. The displacement is most manifest when it follows effusion into the left side, by which the heart is pushed over to the right, the degree of displacement depending on the amount of effusion, and thus alteration of the heart's position becomes one of the diagnostics of empyema, hydiolhorax, pneumo- thorax. In general, the more rapid the effusion the more certainly will the displacement be effected, and the greater will be its extent. In nine cases out of ten, as my friend Dr. Towns- end remarks,t when the heart is removed out of its natural situation, the displacement will be found to have arisen from empyema or pneumo- thorax ; and of twenty-seven cases observed by him, the heart was perceptibly displaced in every instance. On the other hand, when the effusion is slow and gradual, the extensibility of the neighbouring textures is more completely brought into play, and the displacement of the heart is thus counteracted, whence it happens that in cases of chronic dropsical effusions into the chest, displacement of the heart is not of frequent occurrence, nor is it extensive when it does take place. When the effusion occurs on the right side, the heart may be pushed more to the left, and upwards, than is natural, but to effect this a considerable effusion is necessary. The first notice of this fact is due to my able friend, Dr. Townsend, to whose article I have already referred. In a case of pneumothorax * This enumeration is taken from Bouillaud, Traite des Maladies du Cceur, t. ii. p. 588. t Cyclop. Pract. Med. vol. ii. p. 390. to which he refers, and which I also witnessed, the effusion was on the right side, and the heart was distinctly seen and felt pulsating between the fourth and fifth ribs, near the left axilla. After paracentesis, which was performed by the late Dr. M'Dowel, the heart gradually returned to its normal position, as the displacing force was removed by drawing off the air and fluid contained in the opposite pleura. More- over, as has recently been ascertained by Dr. Stokes, the absorption of an effusion of the right side will cause the heart to be displaced to that side, the pleural cavity being obliterated by lymph, while the lung of the left side is en- larged so as to aid in occupying the vacant space and pushing the heart over. It is scarcely necessary to observe that tu- mours forming in the right or left sac of the pleura may occasion displacement; thus aneu- rismal tumours may push the heart to the right, to the left and upwards, or even forwards and outwards against the wall of the thorax, or downwards, so that its apex will pulsate in the epigastrium. Of this last displacement, Dr. Townsend* relates an example. I have my- self observed, some years ago, a case where the heart was pushed forwards and outwards, and as it were compressed against the ribs by an enormous aneurism of the thoracic aorta; the sounds of the heart were so modified by this compression as to lead to the erroneous diagnosis of concentric hypertrophy. In the case recorded by Drs. Graves and Stokes,+ the heart was pushed upwards and to the right side by an abdominal aneurism, so as to pulsate in the in- tercostal space of the third and fourth ribs. Dr. Hope mentions the displacement to the left by an aneurism of the ascending aorta. Any cause which pushes the diaphragm upwards and prevents its descent, such as distension of the abdomen by an enlarged viscus, a tumour, or an effusion, will change the position of the heart, so that its axis will be directed horizon- tally ; and Dr. Hope has remarked that the same position may be produced by an adhesion of the pericardium to the heart, by which its enlargement downwards is prevented. A diaphragmatic hernia will displace the heart to an extent proportionate to that of the visceral protrusion. In a case recorded by Drs. Graves and Stokes, the stomach and a large portion of the transverse arch of the colon were lodged in the left cavity of the thorax, and pushed the heart and mediastinum towards the right side. When the lung is enlarged from dilated air-cells, the heart may be displaced : it may be drawn considerably downwards by the dia- phragm, which yields before the enlarged lung, thus increasing the vertical diameter of the chest; or it may suffer a slight degree of lateral displacement, the mediastinum being pushed to the right side by the lung.J Dr. Stokes has related the remarkable, and so far as I know unique case of displacement, or as he terms it " dislocation," of the heart * Loc. cit. f Dub. Hosp. Rep. vol. v. p. 10. | See Dr. Stokes's valuable work on Diseases of the Chest, pp. 187-191.