780 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. Circumduction combining the four preceding is a compound movement, in which the inferior extremity describes a cone, the apex of which is at the joint; the head of the femur in the course of this motion successively assumes the several situations already described. In rotation outwards the head of the femur is directed forwards and inwards, the anterior surface of the neck looks outwards, the pos- terior inwards resting on the brim of the ace- tabulum ; the capsular ligament is put upon the stretch on its inner side. Any sudden jerk or violence when in this position is liable to produce dislocation upwards upon the pubis. In rotation inwards the bone assumes the contrary direction, and the capsular ligament and ligamentum teres are equally put upon the stretch. In this case dislocation may occur either upon the dorsum of the ilium or into the sciatic notch. For this motion we have but few muscles, this position being produced merely by the tensor vaginae femoris and anterior fibres of the gluteus medius muscles. The disparity between the number of muscles influencing the motions of rotation outwards and inwards is very striking, but this may be attributed to the direction of the acetabulum from within out- wards and forwards naturally tending to pro- duce rotation inwards. Consequently before the opposite motion can be effected there is this inequality to be overcome, and hence the disparity between the muscles. (H. Hancock.) HIP-JOINT, ABNORMAL CONDI- TIONS OF THE—In this article we shall adopt an arrangement similar to that which we have followed in our former observations on the abnormal conditions of particular joints, and consider these states under the heads of, 1. congenital malformations; 2. the effects of disease, and, 3. the results of accident. Section I. Congenital malformation of the hip-joint.—The peculiar affection termed by the continental surgeons congenital or "original lux- ation " of the hip-joint, has not in our islands at- tracted the notice that it seems to us to merit. When we reflect upon the very valuable addi- tions which have been made to our knowledge of the pathology of the articulations by British writers, and observe their silence upon this ab- normal state of the hip-joint, we might be led to infer that this malformation had no existence in these islands; this, however, unfortunately is not true. In the very valuable museums in London we can easily recognise many unquestionable spe- cimens of this congenital malformation of the bones of the hip-joint. In Dublin we know some living examples of it, and our museums contain preparations shewing some of its va- rieties and most of its usual anatomical charac- ters. At the meeting of the British Association in Dublin in the year 1835, Dr. Hutton made some interesting observations on this affection to the section of medical science, and gave an account of a well-marked example of it affect- ing one hip-joint. On that occasion Dr. Handyside observed that he had met with a case of congenital luxation of both hip-joints, in a subject which had been brought into his anatomical rooms at Edinburgh; and he added that the appearances of the joints corresponded very closely with those noticed by Dr. Hutton. The Professor of Anatomy and Surgery to the University of Dublin, Dr. Harrison, laid before the Surgical Society last winter the results of two accurate post-mortem examinations which he had made of this malformation of the hip- joint. The history of these cases, as far as Dr. Harrison could make it out, shewed that the subjects of them had during life presented the ordinary signs of the infirmity in question. In one of them, one hip-joint only was af- fected ; in the second, not only was the arrest of development such as to leave the acetabu- lum a plane surface by depriving it of border of any kind, but the ligamentum teres, the head and greater part of the cervix femoris were also deficient on both sides, so that the femora at their upper extremity presented a rude resemblance to the ossa humeri. In this case (jig. 307) the capsular ligament was of an extraordinary length, and permitted the rudi- ment of a head and neck, with the trochanter major, to ascend and descend on each side on the dorsum ilh, and to pass backwards on the ischium to the very edge of the ischiatic notch, in the different movements of the patient. The case of congenital malformation of the hip-joint has not escaped the notice of conti- nental surgeons,* although perhaps the nature of the affection had not fully attracted the attention of the profession until Dupuytrenf gave the results of his observations of twenty-six cases of this malformation which were presented to him in the course of his public and private practice. He seems to have met with the affection more frequently in the female than in the male, in the vast proportion of twenty-two females to four males, and from his description it would appear that he has usually found, in the same individual, both hip-joints affected. In the cases we have witnessed, we have not observed this very great preponderance of female over male cases; and although we have noticed the defect to be double in the same individual, we have more frequently observed but one joint engaged. This is of importance to be recol- lected, as mistakes in our diagnosis are more likely to occur when only one joint is affected, than in those cases in which the defect is double in the same individual. The characters, says Dupuytren, of this " original luxation" are nearly similar to all those we notice belonging to the ordinary luxa- tion upwards and backwards on the dorsum of the ilium : the limbs are shortened and inver- ted ; the superior extremities of the femora are carried upwards, backwards, and outwards, into the external iliac fossa, where a considerable prominence can be seen, caused by the unusual elevation of the great trochanter; the thighs, unusually slender, are obliquely directed down- * Palletta, Lafond, Callard, Bcllomeir. t Repertoire d'Anatomic, Lemons Orales.