GASTEROPODA. 399 Fig. 196. near the right tentacle, where it protrudes, as in the Snail, for the purpose of copulation, by the inversion of its walls; it is, however, absolutely imperforate, and receives no duct by which it can communicate with the testis so as to become instrumental in immission; but externally a deep groove is seen upon its surface when in a state of protrusion, which is continuous with a long furrow seen upon the surface of the body, continued from the base of the penis to the orifice of the female ap- paratus. Fig. 197 represents the secreting Fig. 197. Generative organs of Aplysiu. portions of this system removed from the body, and displayed so as to expose the internal structure of the parts composing it. The ovary (ft) is a large oval, whitish, and granular mass, from which the oviduct arises by several distinct tubes which emerge from different parts of its substance : this oviduct opens into the common tube (e), which may be called the vagina. The mass (J] g), called by Cuvier the testis, and supposed by him to be solid and homogeneous in its texture, is found, when opened, to he divided by spiral septa, resem- bling the scala cochleae in the ears of Mam- malia (g), and thus forms a long spiral cavity communicating with the commencement of the vagina, in which latter tube we also find aper- tures by which the vesicle (p) and the larger sacculus (o) communicate with the common passage. In Onchidium, an aquatic species belonging to the inoperculate pulmonary order, the male and female parts are in a similar manner placed at opposite extremities of the body, but the former assume a more complicated structure than in the Tectibranchiata, which we have described. The ovary (Jig. 198, a, a, a) Fig. 198. Generative organs of Onchidium. consists of two masses replete with ova, each of which furnishes a short duct; the two thus formed unite into a convoluted tube (b), which is the common oviduct: arriving at the mass always regarded by Cuvier as the testis, it enlarges and forms within the substance of that organ many convolutions, on emerging from which it runs directly in the shape of a narrow canal (rf), to the external orifice (h). The bladder (j) receives a large duct (e) from the mass here assumed to be the testis, and gives off another of equal size, which joins the Oviduct (rf) prior to its termination. This