FIBRES OF THE HEART. 624 the base, pass more longitudinally. It is evi- dent that these few fibres would be inadequate to form a complete layer, unless in their pro- longation they pursued an uniformly spiral course. They are more than enough to cover the apicial part as they twist over each other; but in consequence of the conical form of the heart they soon become singly arranged, and as they diverge, separate and leave interspaces, some of which are occupied by fibres which apparently arise abruptly at the surface. The fibres which pass longitudinally to the base of the left ventricle are inserted into the tendinous margin of the annulus arteriosus, and into the posterior part of the root of the aorta, forming the right wing, crc. The spiral fibres have been stated to arrive at the anterior coronary track along its whole length. The majority of them terminate at the coronary vessels ; others are merely intersected by them, while others pass under these vessels and become super- ficial again : those which maintain their course over the right ventricle vary in different hearts from a small to a considerable number. Along the whole length of this track accessory fibres from the interior of the right ventricle are emerging to associate with these in their way over this ventricle. They take a longitudinal course to the base, and therefore start at an angle with the spiral fibres which are on the left side of the coronary track. In fig. 281 these accessory fibres from the aorta, a a, and from two of the carnes columns, are seen passing together obliquely down the right sur- face of the septum, marked acc, to enter into the formation of the extended band. These accessory fibres perforate it along the anterior boundary, ab, and become super- ficial. This layer is, accordingly, in jig. 279, marked Cacc; its fibres pass at nearly right angles with the subjacent fibres, and when raised form the left wing; its insertions are the anterior part of the root of the aorta, the tendinous margin of the annulus venosus, and again the right part of the root of the aorta. Sometimes festoons are formed at the base by communications of fibres between the pulmo- nary artery and the aorta, at its right and pos- terior aspects. It occasionally happens that the accessory fibres which arise from the interior of the right ventricle are not very numerous; in such cases a greater number of fibres arise abruptly from its surface. The superficial layer has three sets of ori- gins: one, primitive, from the interior of the left ventricle; the others, accessory, from the interior of the right ventricle, and from the outer surface of both. It cannot with pro- priety be considered as one common invest- ment, since each ventricle for the most part gives birth to its own superficial fibres. It is necessary to raise it as a distinct layer for two reasons : first, that the superficial fibres of the right ventricle in general pass nearly at right angles with their subjacent fibres, and there- fore require to be removed in order to proceed with the next stage of separation: secondly, that it developes the peculiar mode of closing the left ventricle, and of forming the apex; and probably no other method than that of the twisting of the fibres could have been so secure, especially as the parietes at the apex of the ventiicle do not generally, even in a bullock's heart, exceed a tenth of an inch in thickness. The secund stage —The external layer having been traced from its origins to its insertions, we may now trace the deep-seated layers; and as these have, for the most part, the same origins, courses, and insertions as the super- ficial layer, we may commence the description at the same points. It has been already stated that the fibres of the rope and of the two earner columns ex- pand in a fan-like manner, that their inmost fibres pass through the apex and become ex- ternal, but that the chief of them wind round the axis of the left ventricle above the apex, as exemplified in fig. 279, crc. The respec- tive sets of fibres pertaining to these three bodies continue separate during their radiation only, after which they become plaited together by folding one over the others. Their mode of association is shown in the extended portion of the split layer, crc in fig. 280, also in its counterpart, crc, winding round the api- cial part of the ventricle. Again, in fig. 278, it may be seen that the fibres at the bases of these columns turn under and pass up in con- junction with those of the rope forming the middle mass, cue, at the upper of which they fold over making flat twists upon them- selves, which have, however, become exag- gerated in appearance by the unwinding of the heart, as in rolling it up again some of the angles are converted into spires, preserving a considerable degree of parallelism. Having shown the origins, and the method adopted in the association, of the fibres form- ing the middle mass in jig. 278, we proceed by tracing the divisions and prolongations of its fibres, and the plan of building up the two chambers of the heart. First, the forma- tion of the left ventricle. If the right carnea columna, cc, be replaced in contact with its fellow, and if the rope, rr, be brought round the upper part of this cavity so as to embrace them, and if portion 4 be split from the middle mass, crc, and be wound, in association with the apicial fibres, crc, round the lower part of this cavity, that division of the heart, comprising the left ventricle and the middle mass, will bear a near resemblance to that represented in fig. 280; in which figure the rope, rr, in embracing the heads of the carnes columns, cc, brings into view its fan- like fibres, r, sweeping round the upper part of the axis of this ventricle; in which the fibres of portion 4, in winding round the lower half of the axis, embrace the bodies of the carnea; columns, cc, and associate with the apicial fibres, crc, and in which the ex- tended layer, cue, represents the middle mass minus the portion 4, which is split from it. Thus much pertains exclusively to the descrip- tion of the formation of the left ventricle. That of the right is more complicated, and constitutes—