FCETUS. 321 not long since, presented a nearly similar case to the Academy of Surgery at Paris. In another case, the cast of which was sent to the writer by Dr. Gason of Enniskerry, the hernia appears to have taken place at the ante- rior fontanelle. J. Cloquet met with a case where it protruded through the posterior fonta- nelle.* A remarkable case of this affection, occurring in a very unusual situation, was ob- served at the Hotel Dieu at Paris : a child of about a year and a half old was admitted on account of a small tumour, supposed to be a ganglion, about as large as a nut, and situated at the root of the nose, exactly under the nasal process of the frontal bone. At birth it had been only as large as a pea; it was increased in size, and became redder when the child cried; the child was very irritable; pressure on the tumour gave pain, and produced a general agitation. Dupuytren suspected that the tu- mour was formed by a prolongation of the brain through some congenital opening in the base of the skull, and on consulting with M. Breschet, the latter declared that he had met with a precisely similar case, in which, on dissection, he had found that the tumour was formed by a portion of one of the anterior lobes of the brain, which was prolonged through a slit in the centre of the ethmoid and sphenoid bones down to the root of the nose.t As tumours of a very different character are frequently observed on the foetal head at birth, it is of consequence to be satisfied of the diagnostic characters of the encephalocele, which is at first a rather tense, smooth, and semitransparent tumour, giving generally a more or less distinct sense of fluctuation; it afterwards collapses and becomes wrinkled and smaller in dimension ; the integument over it is thin but not discoloured, not unfrequently pale : in shape the tumour is globular or oval, and frequently tapers to a neck where it issues from the head, (see Jig. 151,) at which point a circular aperture can be detected in the bone, the edges of which are in general smoothly rounded off; the tumour is not painful, but, if it be compressed by the hand, so as to cause a Fig. 151. * Diet, de Med. torn. viii. p. 52. t La Lancette Francaise, Mars, 1835. VOL. II. considerable diminution in its volume, the child appears to suffer much distress, sometimes has the features slightly convulsed for the mo- ment, and is rendered stupid and paralytic, as under other circumstances of cerebral oppres- sion ; pulsations are to be felt in the tumour synchronous with those of the heart; and, lastly, the volume of the tumour is suddenly increased by any effort on the part of the child, as by coughing, straining, crying, &c. Most children so affected are either still- born or live but a very short time; to this, however, there are exceptions; one has already been mentioned, another has been related on the same authority,* and Guyenot brought before the Royal Academy of Surgery in 1774, a man of thirty-three years of age, with ence- phalocele in the forehead, who had never ex- perienced any disturbance of his intellectual faculties. Lallemand attempted to remove a tumour from the occipital region of a young woman of twenty-three, under the idea that it was a wen; but unfortunately, on attempting to operate, he found that it was an encephalo- cele ; inflammation ensued, and the patient died. Spina bifida.—An affection in many respects analogous to that just described to which the foetus is liable, is that which has received the name of spina bifida, and consists of a tumour situated on some part of the spinal column, most frequently over the lumbar vertebra?, but it may be found at any point along the whole length of that column. The writer lately saw a case of it in which the tumour was situated so high on the cervical vertebrae, that it was diffi- cult to determine whether it arose there, or from the base of the occipital bone. A similar case is recorded by Dr. Collins, in which a child was born with a tumour projecting from the back of the head nearly as large as the head itself; it burst, and the child died in ten hours: " The tumour to a considerable extent was covered with hair, the remainder being bare skin of a thin texture, with a blueish tinge; with the exception of one spot the size of a shilling, which had almost the appearance of serous membrane. " The ventricles of the brain were much dila- ted and communicated freely with the sac. The membranes were extremely vascular, and the whole contents of the cranium in a dark con- gested state. The opening through which the tumour had formed was about three-eighths of an inch in diameter, and half an inch behind the foramen magnum. The bones of the head generally were very imperfect as to ossifi- cation, "f The most unusual form of it is that in which the tumour appears at the very extremity of the sacrum, where it joins the coccyx. Ruysch, however, met with an instance of the kind, and Genga with another, in which there was also hydrocephalus, the fluid of which was eva- cuated by opening the tumour on the spine.J * lioc.jamcit. p. 341. t Practical Treatise on Midwifery, p. 511. :f Vide Morgagni, epist. xii. art. 9. Y