904 INSECTA. ful examination and comparison of the parts of the mouth in Volucella, Echinomyia,and Musca, with those in Tabanida and Asilidaz. To com- mence our observations with the most perfect form of mouth, we find in Tabanida: that the labrum is an elongated, acute, corneous plate, freely articulated to the margin of the clypeus, and marked along its middle line with a raphe. It is concave on its under surface, and is as long as the mandibles and maxilla, which it partially covers, and somewhat resembles in appearance. In Culex it is longer than these parts, and is more sharp-pointed. In Asilus crabroniformis it is much shorter than either the mandibles or maxillae. It is narrow, tri- angular, and rounded at its apex, with a slight indentation, and is not used by the insect as a lancet, as in the preceding instances, but merely forms the anterior covering of the mouth. In Eristalis Jioreus (e) it is a short mitre-shaped plate, which covers the base of the mandibles and maxilla?, and articulates freely with the clypeus. In Volucella bombylqns it is reduced to a very narrow short plate, articulated with, and, in a state of rest, inflected beneath a small triangular one, which is inserted into a deep cleft of the clypeus, and which appears to be the proper analogue of the clypeus anterior. In Rhingia rostrata it has almost entirely dis- appeared, so likewise has the part that we are inclined to regard as the clypeus anterior, which is inserted into the cleft at the extremity of the elongated rostriform anterior part of the head. In Echinomyia it still exists as a very narrow corneous plate articulated with the clypeus, inflected beneath the head when the proboscis is retracted, but forming the anterior portion of its base when the organ is extended. In Musca it has entirely disappeared as a dis- tinct piece, but seems to have become the union of two corneous plates, which together form an arch on the front of the mouth, or base of the proboscis, and represent the mandibles, the intervening space being covered by a strong membrane. The mandibles, which had almost disappeared in Lepidoptera, still exist in the rapacious Diptera, and in those which pierce the skin of other animals. In Tabanus they are long, and somewhat lancet-shaped plates, situated immediately beneath the labrum. They are slightly curved, like a cutlass, and sharp-pointed. They are not employed in crushing or cutting solid food, as in proper mandibulated insects, but in puncturing or piercing with a horizontal motion from be- hind forwards, and not from side to side. In this genus, howevet, their motion appears to be not simply that of thrusting or pier- cing, but also that of cutting vertically with a sweeping stroke, like the lancets of a cup- ping instrument, for which motion they are well adapted by their cotyloid form of arti- culation. In the common gnat, Culex, they are very slender, and sharp-pointed. The pain occasioned by the piercing, or supposed biting of the insect, arises from the. act of thrusting these instruments through the skin. In these instances the mandibles are equal in length to the other parts of the mouth, but in Eristalis, in which they have still the same acute form, they are somewhat shorter. In the rapacious Asilus crabroniformis the mandibles of the two sides are united to form a single, strong, sharp- pointed barb, very acute, and ciliated at the apex on its upper surface, and projecting be- yond the other parts of the mouth. In Rhingia rostrata they still exist as delicate elongated setae, approximated at their apex; but in the neighbouring genus, Volucella, we have been unable to detect them, except as two flat plates, approximated to the anterior part of what we regard the proper cardines of the maxillae and labrum, and by which the parts of the mouth are thrust forwards. In Echinomyia the man- dibles have also disappeared as distinct organs, and seem to be united to the base of the car- dines within the mouth, as in Volucella, and there is a similar condition of these parts in Musca, in each instance the anterior part of the mouth being covered by a strong membrane, which supplies the place of the horny labrum. The lingua exists in most Diptera. It is largely developed in Tabanus, in which it is a single horny seta situated between the man- dibles in the centre of the mouth. It was dis- tinctly pointed out by Savigny, and subse- quently by Latreille. It was called by the former the hypopharynx. The maxilla:, like the mandibles, undergo a gradual diminution of size. In Tabanus they are straight, and as long as the mandibles, but narrower and less acute. In Asilus, (fig. 380,g) they are very acute and Fig. 380. Under surface of the mouth of Asilus crabroniformis. m, submcntuin -, 1, cardo ; 2, stipes ; 3, palpifer ; 5, lacinia ; h, maxillary palpus ; I, mcntum ; i, ligula.