939 INSECTA. Fig. 401. Internal view of spiracle of larva of Sphinx ligustri. ( Newport, Phil. Trans.) a, anterior margin of spiracle with portion of the trachea; b, the valve; c, retractor valvulae ; e, retractor spiraculi ; d, nerve supplying these mus- cles. cular orifice, and acts upon the internal valve (b), which is situated a little within the spiracle. This valve is a thick, moveable, dark-coloured duplicature of the lining membrane of the posterior border of the spiracle, and closes on that of the opposite side («), which is a concave crescent-shaped margin, not acted upon by muscles—like a cushion or pad. These muscles of the larva of the Sphinx differ but little from those described by Lyonet in the Cossus. In all insects they give pas- sage between them to the ramifications of tra- cheal vessels, which are most extensively dis- tributed throughout the whole body, to every muscle, nerve, or other organ. They are also covered in many places by numerous con- nected vesicles filled with adipose matter, which exist in the greatest abundance in the larva state in all insects, occupying the inter- stices between the muscles and tracheae. The same general structure of the muscular system as that which we have just described in the Sphinx exists in all larva? that undergo a com- plete metamorphosis, whether they belong to the Coleopterous, Ilymenopterous, or Lepi- dopterous classes, although in the particular distribution and form of the muscles in each there are necessarily some differences depen- dent upon difference of species and habit. Thus Burmu.ster found a similar general con- formation of parts in the larva of Calosoma sycophamta* (jig. 354), one of the more per- fect Coleoptera, both in the existence of the rudiments of muscles for the wings and in the longitudinal muscles of the dorsal and ventral surfaces of the body. The muscles of the larvae of Coleoptera, as Burmeister has re- marked, bear a greater resemblance to the muscles of the perfect insects than those of the larvae of other classes. It is not difficult to recognise in them the same general arrange- ment of particular muscles which are after- wards found in a more or less developed state in the perfect insects. An admirable exem- plification of the muscular system of Coleop- tera is given by Straus Durckheim in his splendid work on the anatomy of Melolontlia vulgaris, in which many of the muscles that exist in the larva state may be distinctly iden- tified, although greatly modified in form and size to fit them for new modes of action, which have been rendered necessary by the changes that have taken place in the habits and modes of life of the insect. Thus, as also remarked by Straus,f the great ventral series of recti muscles which we have just seen in the larva, form successively the retractor muscles of the labium, the depressors of the head, the re- tractors or depressors of the pro-sternum, or those which draw that part to the meso-sternum, and the pretractors of the post-furca or trian- gular process of the metasternum; and, lastly, the inferior recti muscles of the abdomen. But in each of these instances the size and form of the muscles are greatly altered, more especially in the thoracic region, while in the abdominal region those of the posterior segments exist with less change of form than in the thoracic, but are greatly reduced in size, and those of the anterior abdominal segments, in which the ventral plates of two or more segments have become consolidated together, are atrophied and have almost disappeared. In like manner the dorsal recti of the larva exist in the imago in the new form of elevators of the head, superior retractors or elevators of the prothorax and scutellum, and levators, depressors, and adductors of the wings and dorsal longitudinal recti of the abdomen. In the latter region neither their form nor direction have been changed, but like the ventral recti they have been mucli reduced in size, because there is less necessity for their active employment in the perfect than in the larva state, in which nearly the whole of the locomotive powers of the in- dividual are entirely dependent upon those muscles. Their form and direction have not been changed because the direction in which they ar« employed in the perfect state is pre- cisely similar to that in which they are em- ployed in the larva. But this is not the case in the thoracic region, in which not only have they been enormously increased in size and changed in form, but their relative position has also been altered, owing to the changes that have taken place during the metamor- * Trans. Entom, Society, Lend. vol. i. |). 335. t Considerat Geiicrales, p. 14SJ.