HEARING. 565 for, to empower all animals to express their sense and meaning to others; to make known their fears, their wants, their pains and sorrows in melancholick tones; their joys and pleasures in more harmonious notes; to send their minds at great distances in a short time in loud boations; or to express their thoughts near at hand with a gentle voice or in secret whispers. And to say no more, who less than the same most wise and indulgent Creator could form such an ceconomy as that of melody and musick is; that the medium should, as I said, so readily receive every impression of sound, and convey the melodious vibration of every musi- cal string, the harmonious pulses of every animal voice, and of every musical pipe; and the ear be as well adapted and ready to receive all these impressions as the medium to convey them. And lastly, that by means of the curious lodgment and inosculation of the auditory nerves, the orgasms of the spirits should be allayed and perturbations of the mind in a great measure quieted and stilled; or to express it in the words of the last-cited famous author (Willis), ' that musick should not only affect the fancy with delight, but also give relief to the grief and sadness of the heart; yea, appease all those turbulent passions which are excited in the breast by an immoderate ferment and fluctuation of the blood.'" Preliminary observations on sound:*—Sound is the result of an impulse of any kind con- veyed by the air to our ears. The analysis of what takes place on the production of various familiar sounds or noises abundantly explains this. If the ear be applied to one extremity of a long beam of timber and a person tap with his finger on the other, the impulse is distinctly perceived by the impression of sound which is conveyed. A fine probe introduced carefully through the meatus externus, and made to impinge upon the membrana tympani, however gently, will occasion the sensation of sound. To produce the sensation, then, of sound, an im- pulse is necessary either of some solid directly upon the membrane of the tympanum itself, or of the air which is always in contact with that membrane. The body by which the sound is produced, denominated by Professor Wheat- stone f a phonic, occasions in the surrounding air vibrations or oscillations, corresponding in number and extent to those which exist in itself; and these vibrations or oscillations being propagated to the organ of hearing, give rise to the sensation. This agitation of the air sur- rounding the body from whence the sound emanates is manifest in numerous instances ;— the report of a cannon, the rushing of waters, the rattling of carriages, which in the crowded tho- roughfares of London communicate their vibra- tions to the walls and floors of the houses and even to the furniture. In the familiar instance * It will be perceived that in the ensuing obser- vations the writer has borrowed largely from Sir John Herschel's admirable essay on sound in the Encyclopedia Metropolitana. He has also to acknowledge his obligations to the article on Acous- tics in Pouillet's Elcmens dc Physique. f Annals of Philosophy, new series, vol. vi. of eliciting sound from a finger-glass partly full of water by rubbing the wetted finger round its brim, the vibrations which this friction excites in the glass are rendered evident by the crispa- tions produced in the water immediately in contact with it. The vibration of the water, as indicated by these crispations, corresponds with that of the glass—the greater the intensity of the sound elicited, the more considerable are the vibrations in the glass, and consequently the more manifest are those of the water, and vice versa. " In musical sounds we may also observe an agitation which is often felt commu- nicating itself to the surrounding bodies. If, for example, we stand under or near a piano- forte when it is sounding', we feel a sensible tremor in the floor of the apartment. If we lay the finger or hand on the instrument or touch any other, such as a violin when it is sounding, or a bell, we feel the same sort of tremor in every part of them; and this is well observed in the case of any glass vessel, such as a tumbler or large cup. If we strike it so as to make it sound, and then touch the mouth of it with the finger, we feel a sensible tremor in the glass; and when this internal agitation is stopped, as it generally is by the contact with the finger, then the sound ceases along with it."* The disturbance produced in the air by a sounding body has been from a very early period illustrated by a reference to the waves formed in still water by a stone falling into it. " Voice," says Vitruvius, " is breath flowing and made sensible to the hearing by striking the air. It moves in infinite circumferences of circles, as when, by throwing a stone into still water, you produce innumerable circles of waves, increasing from the centre and spread- ing outwards, till the boundary of the space or some obstacle prevents their outlines from going further. In the same manner the voice makes its motions in circles. But in water the circles move breadthways upon a level plane; the voice proceeds in breadth, and also successively ascends in height."f That the presence of air is necessary for the production of sound is proved by the experiment first tried by HauksbeeJ and repeated by Biot. A bell was made to ring in the receiver of an air-pump, and in proportion as the air was exhausted it was found that the sound died away, and it again returned as the air was re-admitted. On the other hand, the bell sounded more strongly when the air within the receiver was condensed, and the greater the condensation of the air, the louder was the sound. Any irregular impulse communicated to the air produces a noise, in contradistinction to a musical sound. This latter results from a succession of impulses, which occur at ex- actly equal intervals of time, and which are exactly similar in duration and intensity. When these impulses succeed each other with great rapidity, the sound appears continuous, * Encycl. Britann. art. Acoustics, t Vitruvius de Arch. v. 3, quoted in Whewell's History of the Inductive Sciences. 1 Phil. Trans. 1705.