246 FEMORAL ARTERY. other, or to be the most prevalent, for such is the view of the course of the artery given by Haller,* in two of three views in which the relative course of the two vessels is repre- sented, and by Tiedemannf in two of four views. But at other times, when the artery is more tortuous, after descending for a little way external to the femoral, it makes a turn, and passes inward behind it, and thus fre- quently gains the inner side of that vessel before it reaches the adductor longus, after which it again inclines outward toward its destination. Such is the view given of its course by Scarpa,^ with which the description of Harrison coincides: it is similarly repre- sented by Tiedemann in fig. 4, tab. xxxiii., and also by Haller § in one instance; but the author is disposed to regard this as a less common disposition, as well from the fre- quency with which he has observed the former one to occur, as from the weight of the autho- rities which have been adduced in favour of that opinion. In other but rare instances the profunda, arising from the inside of the femo- ral, inclines at first inward and becomes in- ternal to it, and then bending outward crosses behind the femoral to its outer side: of this arrangement an instance is furnished by Tiede- mann in fig. 3, tab. xxxiii. And in others the artery does not in the first instance incline sensibly to either side; but arising from the back of the femoral it descends behind that vessel, and does not gain its outer side until it has reached the lower part of the inguinal region. When the profunda artery arises very near to or above Poupart's ligament, and from the outer side of the femoral, is large and pursues its ordinary course, two arteries of equal or nearly equal size may be found, at the upper part of the inguinal region, side by side, and upon the same level, and thence liable to be taken, either of them, for the femoral artery. When such an arrangement occurs, the ex- ternal|| of the two vessels will almost certainly be found to be the profunda, for if that artery have once passed inward behind the femoral, it cannot afterward gain the same level with it, so as to be situate at the same time internal to and on the same plane with it: further, as the profunda descends, it recedes from the an- terior surface more than the femoral, in order to pass behind the adductor longus, and thus it gains at the lower part of the region a deeper situation than the other. But inasmuch as the profunda occasionally arises from the inside of the femoral artery, it may be possible for it, in case of high origin, to be the inner of the two vessels adverted to. Such a circumstance, however, if it ever occur, must be extremely rare, but in order to guard against it, the pre- * Icones Anatomies. t Tabulas Arteriarum. Tab. xxxi. and fig. 2. tab. xxxiii. % Reflexions et Observations Anatomico-chirur- gicales sur l'Aneurisme, tab. lire. $ Op. cit. || Harrison, op. cit. vol. ii. p. J65. Hargrave, System of Operative Surgery. caution recommended of alternately compres- sing the vessels and ascertaining the effect previous to the application of a ligature, should never be neglected. Branches of the profunda artery.—The pro- funda gives off a considerable number of branches, some of which being distributed to the muscles, by which the artery passes, and not being remarkable either for their size or their communications, have not received par- ticular names. Those which are most de- serving of attention, whether for their size, the extent and peculiarity of their course, or the anastomoses which they form with other arteries, are five or six in number, viz. two circumflex arteries, and three or at times four perforating arteries. The circumflex arteries are so named because they wind round the upper extremity of the femur, and form an arterial circle around it: they are distinguished by the epithets external and internal, being destined, one to the outer, the other to the inner side of the limb: they are vessels of considerable size and importance because both of the extent of parts which they supply, and of the communications which are established through them between the femoral, the arteries of the pelvis, and those of the lower parts of the limb. tt The external circumflex artery at times is the first branch of the profunda; at others it is preceded by the internal circumflex : it is given off from the profunda while it lies on the outside of the femoral at a variable dis- tance from Poupart's ligament, and arises from the outer side of the artery : occasionally it is given off by the femoral itself; it runs directly outward, or outward and downward, in front of the psoas and iliacus muscles; beneath the sartorius and rectus, and either between or behind the divisions of the crural nerve; and divides after a short course into three branches, viz. an ascending, a descending, and a circum- flex. a. The first, the ascending branch, runs up- ward and outward toward the superior anterior spinous process of the ilium, between the iliacus internus and the glutreus medius mus- cles, and concealed by the tensor vaginas femoris: as it proceeds, it gives branches to those muscles; and having reached the outer and back part of the spinous process, it ter- minates in an anastomosis with a branch of the glutceal, and also with the deep cir- cumflex ilii arteries. The anastomosis with the glutceal artery becomes remarkably en- larged when the main vessel is interrupted above the origin of the profunda, as may be seen from Sir A. Cooper's case of femoral aneurism.* b. The second, the descending branch, runs downward and outward beneath the rectus muscle, between it and the triceps crural, and divides after a short course for the most part into several branches of considerable size and great length for the supply of those muscles and for establishing communications: the branches are * Guy's Hospital Reports, Jan. 1836, pi* 1.