FEMORAL ARTERY. 241 oradipo.se stratum is interposed between tliem. The last particular in the disposition of the prolongation of the fascia transversalis, having reference to the femoral artery, is, that it is connected to the back of the femoral canal (the pubic portion of the fascia lata posterior to the vessels) by two septa or partitions, placed, one between the artery and vein, upon the inside of the former; the other internal to the latter, between it and the femoral ring: by those the abdominal aperture of the femoral sheath is divided into three compartments: an external one occupied by the artery, a mid- dle one by the vein, and an internal by the lymphatics, and at times by a gland. The two former are so protected that the occurrence of hernia through them is rare; in the case of the first probably impossible; but the internal, whether from weakness or deficiency of pro- tecting provisions, allows its protrusion, and hence the relation of the femoral vessels, and more particularly of the artery to the neck of the sac of femoral hernia, upon the outer side of which it is always situate, separated from it by the vein. At the lower part of the first stage the artery is crossed obliquely by the most internal of the deep branches of the crural nerve, which for distinction sake might be called internal geni- cular : it enters the femoral canal on the out- side of the vessels above, at a variable distance from Poupart's ligament; descends from without inward upon the front of the artery within the canal; and escapes from it below on the inside of the vessel under cover of the sartorius. Situate, as the nerve is, within the femoral canal, upon the front of the artery, and close'y connected to it by the femoral sheath, it is very likely, unless care be taken to avoid it, to be included in a ligature at the same time with the vessel: it will not, how- ever, be always encountered, inasmuch as it crosses the artery, and at a point higher or lower in different subjects. At times a second branch of the crural nerve crosses the artery in like manner as the former and lower down, but it is not to be always observed. Posteriorly in its first stage the artery rests, first upon the inner margin of the psoas magnus, from which it is separated by the deep lamina of the iliac portion of the fascia lata: while so related, it is situate over the anterior surface of the os innominatum, external to the iliopec- tineal eminence, having the two structures, already mentioned, interposed.* Below the * In this the author has ventured to differ from the account usually given of the relation of the artery to the os innominatum, according to which (Boyer, Cloquet,) the vessel must be understood to be situate internal to the point mentioned, being said to lie upon the os pubis ; but in his opinion this is not correct. The artery lies on the psoas, which is not internal to the eminence, and upon the deep lamina of the iliac portion of the fascia lata covering the muscle, which at its most internal part is inserted into the eminence; consequently the vessel, which lies on the lamina, must be ex- ternal to that point of bone, and observation will be found to confirm this view. VOL. II. os innominatum it is placed over the head of the femur, from which it is separated by the same parts, and also by the capsular ligament of the articulation, and the synovial bursa, which exists between the front of the capsule, and the psoas and iliacus muscles. There are then in this situation two resisting surfaces against which compression of the vessel may be effected; and here also, as observed by Harrison, a tumour with pulsation may occur in case of effusion either into the bursa simply, or into the joint, when a communication exists between the former and the synovial membrane of the latter. Having passed the margin of the psoas and the head of the femur, the artery corresponds to the tendon of the psoas and iliacus, to the pectinalis, and to a small portion of the ad- ductor brevis, which parts it crosses obliquely in its descent: it is not, however, in contact with them, but is separated from them by a space of some depth occupied by cellular structure and vessels. The distance of the artery from the muscles varies according to circumstances : when the thigh is extended or rotated inward, it is increased; when, on the other hand, it is flexed or rotated outward,* it is diminished : in the former case, the artery is brought nearer to the anterior surface of the thigh by the extension, and by the rotation the lesser trochanter, which is in the middle and deepest part of the space, is carried back- ward from that surface. The vessels which occupy the interval be- tween the artery and the muscles are the pro- funda vein, the circumflex veins, and the femoral vein in part, they being next to the artery and immediately behind it; posterior to them are, at times, the profunda artery, and at the upper part, according to circumstances, one or other of the circumflex arteries, when arising, as in ordinary, from it. External to the artery in its first stage are the psoas and iliacus muscles, the sartorius, the rectus, and the upper extremity of the vastus internus muscles; from all which it is separated by the wall of the femoral canal. At the entrance of the artery into the thigh, and for about an inch below Poupart's liga- ment, the crural portion of the genito-crural nerve is contained within the femoral canal in immediate apposition with the vessel upon its outer side. External to it are situate also the crural nerve above, and itssaphena branch below. Except in rare instances, the profunda artery lies on the outer side of the femoral during a greater or less extent of its first stage; but it is, unless occasionally near to its origin, at the same time posterior to it, and is subject to varieties in its relation which will be more particularly detailed in the description of that vessel. Internally the artery corresponds, though at a distance, to the pectinalis and adductor mus- cles. The femoral vein at the upper part is very nearly upon the same level; the artery, however, is somewhat anterior to it, probably * Harrison. B