429 GENERATION. Burdach that the generative function, com- prising the production of a fruitful egg and the formation of the young animal from it, are natural phenomena not more secret in their essence than others occurring in organized bodies, and which, therefore, ought to be investigated by obtaining a knowledge of the conditions in which they take place, and of the operations and changes in which they consist. The illustrious Harvey in his 51st Exercita- tion expresses himself thus decidedly a sup- porter of the theory of Epigenesis,—" it is plain that the chicken is built up by Epigenesis or the additament of parts budding one out of another;" but he does not admit that separate powers, such as the "alterative or immutative, formative, attractive, retentive, digestive, and expulsive faculties, or those of apposition, agglutination, and assimilative nutrition de- scribed by Fabricius," can be distinguished in the production of the chicken. He thus limits our knowledge of the subject in the 54th Exercitation : " But as in the greater world we say Jovis omnia plena, all things are full of the Deity, so also in the little edifice of a chicken, and all its actions and operations, digitus Dei, the finger of God or the God of nature doth reveale himself." " A more sub- lime and diviner artificer (than Man is) seems to make and preserve man ; and a nobler agent than a cock doth produce a Chicken out of the egge. For we acknowledge our omnipotent God and most high Creator to be every where present in the structure of all creatures living, and to point himself out by his workes ; whose instruments the cock and hen are in the gene- ration of the chicken. For it is most apparent, that in the generation of the chicken out of the egge, all things are set up and formed, with a most singular providence, divine wisdom, and an admirable and incomprehensible artifice." " Nor can these attributes appertain to any but to the Omnipotent Maker of all things, under what name soever we cloud him ; whether it be the mem divina, the divine mind with Aristotle, or anima mundi, the soul of the universe with Plato; or with others natura nuturans, Nature of nature herself; or else Saturnus or Jupiter with the heathen, or rather as befits us, the Creatour and Father of all things in heaven and earth ; upon whom all animals and their births depend: and at whose beck or mandat, all things are created and begotten."* 3. Spontaneous generation of animals.—In this introductory view of the function of gene- ration, it may be proper shortly to inquire whether a regular affiliation from parent to offspring be an indispensable condition for the continuation of the species of every kind of animal,—a question somewhat speculative in its nature, but of considerable interest in rela- tion to some of the general doctrines of physio- logy, as well as closely connected with our present subject. It has already been stated in * Anatomical Exercitations concerning the Ge- neration of Living Creatures. London, 1653, p. 310 ct seq. general terms that origin by generation and the power of reproduction are characteristics be- longing to all organized bodies whether of the vegetable or animal kingdoms. The existence of life implies the sequence of decay and death, or m other words, those varied operations and changes which together constitute the living state continue to occur in each organized body for a limited period only : they sooner or later undergo a gradual alteration, are less regularly performed, and ultimately entirely cease in death. But although every individual belong- ing to the organized kingdom of nature is necessarily subject to death, the species of each plant and animal never becomes extinct, but is continued upon earth in an undeviating suc- cession of generations. The origin of.a mineral, on the other hand, is wholly independent of any pre-existing body of its own kind; and, in the mineral kingdom, all those bodies are held to belong to the same species which agree in external form, physical properties, and chemical constitution. The mineral owes its first origin, as its subsequent increase, to the simple union of its component particles; but the successive generations of every species of organized bodies constitute an uninterrupted chain extending from the time of their first creation, and in which the formation of every new link that is added depends on its tem- porary attachment to that which preceded it. So fixed, indeed, is the law of continued reproduction of organized bodies, that many naturalists have, in the absence of more definite distinctive characters, adopted the circumstance of reproduction as the only certain means of determining what individuals ought to be regarded as belonging to one species. While most naturalists readily admit the correctness of the above-mentioned general law, some are inclined to hold that it is not universally applicable, and that there are excep- tions to it both in the vegetable and animal kingdoms of organized nature. It is among the simplest kinds of plants and animals that these exceptions are conceived to exist, and more particularly among cryptogamic plants of the nature of mould, small microscopic animalcules formed in infusions of decaying organic matters, and the Entozoa which live in the bodies of other animals. These living productions are supposed by some to arise in- dependently of others of the same kind, nearly in the manner of minerals, by the aggregation of their component molecules, with this diffe- rence, that these molecules are of an organic kind. This sort of production without parents has been termed Spontaneous Generation. It has also received at different times various other appellations, such as equivocal, doubtful, primitive, original, and heterogeneous gene- ration. At one time it was a common belief among scientific men as well as the vulgar that many animals might be produced by sponta- neous generation, as for example, the numerous insects or their larvae infesting putrid sub- stances, various kinds of worms (Annelida), and Molluscous animals, as well as even