HEARING. 568 direct from them, or sometimes the otolithes are so placed with reference to the expansion of the vestibular nerve, as to be able to com- press it against the cranium. But in man and those animals in whom, in addition to a more complicated labyrinth, there is also an external auditory passage and tym- panum, it would appear that the sonorous vibrations are conducted in two ways; first, through the meatus externus and tympanum to the vestibule and semicircular canals; and, secondly, through the bones of the head di- rectly to the auditory nerve. Sounds pro- ceeding from external bodies, as Weber ob- serves, are conveyed in the former way; but the oscillations of one's own voice, although they in part find their way by the external pas- sage, are chiefly conducted by the cranial bones; and, as Professor VVheatstone has remarked, those sounds are best heard which are articu- lated most in the mouth, and with that cavity least open, as e, ou, te, kew. Closing both ears by firmly pressing the hands upon them, one's own voice is not heard less distinctly, but on the contrary more loud and clear than when both ears are left open; and if only one ear be closed, the voice is heard more distinctly and louder in that ear than in the open one.* The observations and experiments of Weber render it very probable that the cochlea is that part of the labyrinth which is more particularly suited to appreciate sounds communicated through the solid case of the head, or, to use his words, that sounds propagated through the bones of the head are heard specially by the cochlea, but that sounds conducted through the external meatus are perceived by the membra- nous vestibule and semicircular canals more easily than by the cochlea. The following con- siderations favour these views. It is an admitted fact in acoustics that sounds are most perfectly conducted by sub- stances of uniform elasticity, and that when propagated from air or water to a solid, or from a solid to air or water, they are conducted much less completely. Now, inasmuch as the cochlea may be regarded as part and parcel of the cranial bones, the sounds which are pro- pagated by these bones would reach the nervous expansion in that portion of the labyrinth by the most direct route; whereas, to affect the re- maining parts of the labyrinth, the sound must be conducted from the bone through the peri- lymph to the membranous vestibule and semi- circular canals. Moreover, when it is con- sidered that the cochlear nerves are disposed in a radiated manner in the lamina spiralis, it will appear evident that the oscillations pro- pagated to the petrous portion of the temporal bone must exert a direct influence on the coch- lear portion of the auditory nerve. One or two experiments with the tuning-fork show not only that the cranial bones do con- duct, but also that sounds, inaudible or im- perfectly audible through the meatus externus, may be distinctly heard when the sounding * E. H. Weber De Auditu in Annotai. Anatom. et Physiolog. Lips. 1834. body is brought into contact with a bone of the cranium or face. When the tuning-fork is put into vibration by striking it against any solid body, if held near the external ear its vibrations are heard distinctly, but let the handle be applied to the teeth or to the superior maxilla, and the sound appears much louder; or if the fork be held near the ear until the sound has almost died away, and then its handle be ap- plied to the superior maxilla or the teeth, the sound seems greatly to revive and continues for a considerable period, the handle being kept in contact with the bone. When the conducting stem of the sounding tuning fork is placed on any part of the head, if both ears be closed by being covered with the hands, a considerable augmentation of the sound will be observed.* If the sounding- fork be kept in contact with the head for a short time, both ears remaining open, and then one ear be closed, the sound will be greatly augmented in the closed ear, and will appear to be heard exclusively by it. This experiment is more striking if the stem of the tuning-fork be applied to the mastoid process on one side : when both ears remain open, the sound seems to be heard chiefly by the ear in the vicinity of which the stem is placed, but when the opposite ear is closed, it appears as if the sound were transferred from the open to the closed ear; and if the ear be alternately opened and closed, the sound will alternately appear to be transferred from the one to the other. Similar phenomena may be observed if both ears are closed on the first application of the tuning-fork. The sound is at first heard in the adjacent ear, and either remains in it or is transferred to the opposite one, according as the former remains closed or is opened. Mr. Wheatstone adds that if the meatus and concha of one ear be filled with water, the sound from the tuning-fork will be referred to the cavity containing the water in the same way as when it contained air and was closed by the hand. These phenomena afford obvious examples of the communication of sound through the bones of the head. The augmentation of the sound in the closed ear appears to result, as Mr. Wheatstone explains,f from the recipro- cation of the vibrations by the air contained within the closed cavity, and this explanation is confirmed by the fact that when the meatus is closed by a fibrous substance, such as wool, no increase is obtained. The following rationale may be offered of what occurs when the sound from the tuning-fork is communicated to a closed ear, in accordance with the views of Weber respecting the function of the cochlea. The vibrations of the fork are propagated by the bones of the head to the cochlea, the fluid of which being thus thrown into vibration causes the membrane of the fenestra rotunda to vibrate, * These experiments were first suggested by Professor Wheatstone.—See his experiments on audition in the Journal of the Royal Institution for July 1827. t Loc. cit.