GENERATION. 440 has given to it the name of menses or men- struation : the Greek word catamenia is also employed to denote it by medical men, and the English expressions of " the illness" or " the courses" are those in most common use among the vulgar. The menstrual flow of blood lasts usually for about five days, beginning and leaving off gradually, and being in greatest quantity towards the middle of the period. The in- terval is thus generally about twenty-three days. The discharge in general takes place slowly, or drop by drop. The menstrual flow of blood is preceded in most women by some symptoms of fever, a quicker and fuller pulse than usual, languor, headach, pains in the back, and frequently in the hypogastria or region of the ovaries, and by many other symptoms of general derange- ment of the functions, particularly in weak or unhealthy women. In young women upon the occasion of the first appearance of the menses all these symptoms are frequently more strongly marked. Menstruation may be regarded as the most certain sign of the arrival of puberty, and of the fitness of the human female for marriage, as there are very few instances on record in which conception has taken place before the occurrence of the menstrual discharge. It continues for the whole of that period of life during which women are capable of bearing children; and after this, when it ceases, a considerable change in the female constitution ensues : the " change of life" or " critical period" is said to have arrived, from the liabi- lity there then is to the conversion of the plethoric state, previously relieved by men- struation, into some morbid affection either of the sexual or other organs of the body. During menstruation, the uterus, vagina, ovaries, and other parts of the genital organs are usually more vascular and turgid with blood than in the interval; the mammae, which exhibit at all times a remarkable sympathy with the condition of the uterus, frequently participate in this increased activity at the menstrual period, as they then swell and be- come hard. Menstruation consists essentially in the exudation of a fluid resembling blood from the female genital organs, and principally from the uterus. Haller states that the blood has actually been observed to proceed from the uterus in women labouring under prolapsus of that organ, and John Hunter as well as others have found the cavity of the uterus filled with the fluid in women who have died during menstruation. Menstruation usually ceases during pregnancy, and in the majority of women during lactation also. In those instances in which the monthly flow has continued to take place during preg- nancy, there is reason to believe, according to Haller, that it may have proceeded from the upper part of the vagina, as the first changes attendant upon utero-gestation usually close firmly the neck of the uterus. The quantity of fluid which exudes during one menstrual period amounts in general to five or six ounces; but this is subject to great variation from the mode of life of the indivi- dual, state of her health, diet, and other circumstances. The quantity is usually greatest, ceeteris paribus, in healthy women living well, but the increase of the quantity above a certain point or its diminution below another are equally to be regarded as unnatural or diseased states of the action. In tropical countries the quantity is greater than in more temperate regions, amounting occasionally to twelve or even twenty ounces. In Lapland and some other northern countries the quantity is, on the other hand, much below the mean, being occasionally as low as three ounces; and yet in both these situations the women are to be regarded as within the bounds of health. The quantity of fluid lost in menstruation is increased by all those circumstances which cause a determination of blood to the pelvis or its contained viscera; hence the effect of posture, irritating diuretics, drastic purgatives, and those medicines termed emmenagogues. The nature of the fluid discharged in men- struation has not yet, we believe, been investi- gated with sufficient accuracy. It bears a close resemblance to blood, having generally the colour of the venous kind. It is generally fluid, but sometimes coagulates from exposure to air: it is generally believed to contain less fibrine than blood, and to be less prone to putrefaction. Respecting the causes of the menstrual dis- charge and its uses in the economy, many very absurd hypotheses have been advanced in me- dical writing's. It was a common belief among the ancients that the menstrual fluid exerted a baneful influence on every living object, plant, or animal, and many of the institutions and laws of antiquity shew that this natural process was looked upon with abhorrence. The corres- pondence in the length of time of the moon's changes with the recurrence of the menstrual period induced many to believe in an influence exerted by the moon on the female generative system; but the error of such a notion is suffi- ciently proved by the circumstances, first, that more women are not found to menstruate at one period of the moon's changes than at another., and, second, that the women of any place men- truate at all different times. Besides this, many women do not menstruate regularly every lunar month. In some this change takes place every three weeks, in others every fortnight, and there are many in whom there is a varia- tion of one or two days on either side of the common period of twenty-eight days. When we consider the circumstances pre- viously mentioned respecting the intimate con- nexion subsisting between the menstrual flow and the processes of reproduction, we shall be led rather to the opinion that menstruation is to be regarded as a means of relieving the female system periodically from an overplus of blood which exists during the whole of the time in which it is capable of propagation. It occurs at this period of life only, it generally ceases during pregnancy, and it may therefore