551 ORGAN OF HEARING. like a valve. The posterior margin of the tragus, and anterior margin of the antitragus, meet inferiorly; but superiorly they are sepa- rated by a considerable notch. Bounded by the anthelix, tragus, and antitragus, and tra- versed horizontally by the commencement of the helix, is a deep cavity, called concha, at the an- terior part of which is the auditory passage leading from it, as the pipe from the mouth of a funnel. The lower pendulous part of the ear is called lobule. The cartilage of the ear is covered by peri- chondrium, which imparts considerable strength to it. When the perichondrium is removed by dissection, the cartilage is found to be very brittle. Fig. 253. a. b. c. d. e. the helix ; f.g. the upper and lower crura of the anthelix ; h. the point of junction of the two crura; i. h. the anthelix ; I. tragus ■, m. antitragus ; n. lobule ; o. navicular fossa p. fossa innominata ; q cavity of the concha ; r. entrance of the auditory passage. The auricle of the left side (reduced in size). ( From Soemmerring. ) Stripped of the skin which invests it, the auricle is found to be composed of a cartila- ginous skeleton, on which its elasticity depends. The skeleton presents, with some modifications, all the eminences and depressions we have de- scribed, except the lobule, which consists merely of a prolonged fold of skin, between the layers of which is cellular and adipose tissue. In the skeleton of the auricle, the helix com- mences by an acute point in the excavation of the concha. Gradually becoming broader and more elevated, it proceeds obliquely up- wards and forwards, then turning round the upper margin of the ear, contracts in breadth ; and about the middle of the posterior margin, its hemlike fold having ceased, its simple edge is continued into a free tail-like process of car- tilage, which is separated by a fissure from the antitragus. On the anterior part of the helix above the tragus, there is a mammillary process of cartilage which gives attachment to a liga- ment. Behind and below the root of this mammillary process, there is a small vertical fissure in the helix, incisura helicis. Regarding the anthelix there is little more to be said, except that the lower branch of its upper extremity forms a very prominent crest; and that inferiorly the anthelix is continued into the same tail-like process that the helix runs into, and is also partly continued into the anti- tragus. The antitragus is a small plate of cartilage, forming an angle,directed upwards and forwards. It is continuous by its base with the cartilage of the concha. The lobule hangs from the antitragus, and the tail-like process of cartilage common to the helix and anthelix. Tragus.—Between the helix and tragus there is no connexion by cartilage. The space is merely filled by a continuation of the fibrous cellular tissue which constitutes the upper and posterior part of the cartilaginous and mem- braneous portion of the auditory passage. Fig. 254. a. a. a. a. helix ; b. ant- helix ; c. two crura of anthelix ; d. cavity of the concha ; e. antitragus ; f. tragus ; g. fissure be- tween the tragus and commencement of carti- laginous portion of the . auditory passage, the larger fissure of Satito- rini. Skeleton of the cartilage of the external ear (dimi- nished). ( From Soemmerring.) The skin covering the cartilage of the ear adheres intimately to its unequal surface, less so to ij:s back and circumference. The lower part of the hem-like fold of the helix is formed entirely by it; also the lobule, as has been already said. The skin of the auricle contains a number of sebaceous follicles, particularly in the concha, and around the entrance of the au- ditory passage. On the tragus is observed, especially in old people, a small tuft of hair, which has been compared to a goat's beard; whence the name tragus,(Tgayo;, h ireus,) which the Germans trans- late Bock. The antitragus they call Gcgenbock. Ligaments of the ear. Anterior ligament, (ligumentumauricula anterius).—This proceeds from the root of the zygomatic process to the lower and anterior part of the helix, and to the tragus. Posterior ligament, (ligumentum auricula posterius).—Extends from the outer surface of the mastoid process to the posterior surface of the cartilage of the ear, where the concha runs into the auditory passage. Besides the above ligaments binding the ear to the head, there are others which extend from one point of the car- tilage of the ear to another. Muscles of the ear.—The muscles of the ear fall into two classes: viz. those which, arising from the head, are inserted into the ear, and move it as a whole ; and those which, extend- ing from one part of the cartilage to another, are calculated, were they strong enough, to pro- duce a change in the general form of the auricle. Muscles which move the ear as a whole, or the extrinsic muscles.— The elevator, or superior muscle of the ear, (M. attollens auriculam s. superior auricula), is a broad thin muscle, composed of fibres spread out on the upper part of the side of the head. It arises from the middle part of the epicranial aponeuroses, and also from the temporal aponeuroses ; thence, to its insertion into that elevation of the ear-carti- lage on the surface next the head, which cor- responds to the fossa innominata, the fibres be- come more aggregated, so that the muscle is much narrower, but thicker inferiorly than su- periorly. By elevating the upper part of the