EYE. 199 Fig. 123. The mode in which these fibres are laterally united to each other is equally curious. Sir David Brewster says that he ascertained this in looking at a bright light through a thin lamina of the lens of a cod, when he observed two faint and broad prismatic images, situated in a line exactly perpendicular to that which joined the common coloured images. Their angular distance from the central image was nearly five times greater than that of the first ordinary prismatic images, and no doubt whatsoever could be entertained that they were owing to a number of minute lines perpendicular to the direction of the fibres, and whose distance did not exceed the jj&dth of an inch. Upon ap- plying a good microscope to a well-prepared lamina, the two fibres were found united by a series of teeth exactly like those of rack work, the projecting teeth of one fibre entering into the hollows between the teeth of the adjacent one, as in fig. 124. Fig. 124. I have said that the lens consists of an outer case or capsule totally different from the solid body contained within it. This capsule is strong, elastic, and perfectly transparent. In the paper to which I have alluded in the Me- dico-Chirurgical Transactions, I gave the fol- lowing detailed description of its nature and properties: — " The real nature of the capsule of the lens has not, I think, been sufficiently attended to; its thickness, strength, and elasticity, have cer- tainly been noticed, but have not attracted that attention which a fact so interesting, both in a physiological and pathological point of view, deserves. That its structure is cartilaginous, I should conclude,^rs/, from its elasticity, which causes it to assume a peculiar appearance when the lens has been removed, not falling loose into folds as other membranes, but coiled in different directions; or if the lens be removed by opening the capsule behind, and with- drawing it through the vitreous humour, allow- ing the water in which the part is immersed to replace the lens, the capsule preserves in a great degree its original form, especially in the eye of the fish; secondly, from the density and firmness of its texture, which may be ascer- tained by attempting to wound it by a cataract needle, by cutting it upon a solid body, or compressing it between the teeth; thirdly, from its permanent transparency, which it does not lose except on the application of very strong acid or boiling water, and then only in a slight degree; maceration in water for some months, or immersion in spirit of strength sufficient to preserve anatomical preparations, having little or no effect upon it. If the lens be removed from the eye of a fish dressed for the table, the capsule may be raised by the point of a pin, and be still found almost perfectly transparent. This combination of density and transparency gives the capsule a peculiar sparkling appear- ance in water, in consequence of the reflection of light from its surface, resembling a portion of thin glass which had assumed an irregular form while soft; this sparkling I consider very characteristic of this structure. The properties just enumerated appear to me to distinguish it from every other texture but cartilage; still, however, it may be said that cartilage is not transparent, but even the cartilage of the joints is semi-transparent, and, if divided into very thin portions, is sufficiently pellucid to permit the perception of dark objects placed behind it, and we obtain it almost perfectly transparent where it gives form to the globe of the eye, as in the sclerotic of birds and fishes. If the soft consistence, almost approaching to fluidity, of the external part of the lens, be considered, the necessity of a capsule capable itself of pre- serving a determinate form is obvious. If the lens were enclosed in a capsule such as that which envelopes the vitreous humour, its sur- face could not be expected to present the ne- cessary regular and permanent curvature; nor could we expect that if the form of the lens were changed, it could be restored without this provision of an elastic capsule." The capsule is liable to become opaque and constitute cataract, as the body of the lens is. These capsular cataracts are easily distinguished