INSECTA. 902 fident. That they really form the anterior sur- face of the canal or tube seems evident from the distinctness with which coloured substances are observed to pass along the tube when the insect is taking food. There are various opinions with regard to the manner in which the food ascends the tube to the mouth. Some have imagined that it is simply by capillary attraction, and others, the chief of whom was Lamarck, that it is forced along by successive undulations and contrac- tions of the sides of the tube, occasioned by the action of the transverse muscles. Kirby and Spence* believe that these undulatory motions, which certainly do exist to a consider- able extent, are not sufficiently powerful to carry along the food with the rapidity with which it usually ascends, but that the lateral canals, which, as we have just shewn, are the proper tracheae of the organs, assist in pro- ducing the phenomenon by occasioning a vacuum in the mouth and tube which faci- litates the conveyance of the food more rapidly along it. That something of this kind does in reality occur is proved by the following ob- servation. We gave sugared water, coloured with indigo, to two specimens of Pontia nupi, and on attentively examining the front of the organ with a microscope while the insects were busily employed in partaking of the fluid, ob- served the particles of indigo disseminated in it ascend along the tube, not in a gradual and regular succession, as must have been the case had the ascent of the fluid been occasioned simply by capillary attraction, but pumped up, as it were, sometimes in a full stream in quick succession for one or two seconds, as if the insect was then sipping a full draught, while at others a few particles only ascended quickly, followed by still fewer with a much slower motion ; thus indicating distinct intervals be- tween each draught or ascent of fluid. From these circumstances we are led to offer the following explanation of the manner in which the food ascends the tube to the mouth. The instant an insect alights upon a flower, it makes a forcible expiratory effort, by which the air is removed both from the tracheae that extend through the proboscis, and from those with which they are connected in the head and body, some of which we shall hereafter see are distributed over the oesophagus and ali- mentary canal, and at the moment of applying its proboscis to the food makes an inspiratory effort, by which the tube is dilated, and the food ascends it at the instant to supply the vacuum produced, and is carried onward by the same act to the mouth, and from thence by the action of the muscles of the pharynx into the oesophagus and stomach, without any interruption of the function of respiration, the constant ascent of the fluid into the mouth being assisted by the action of the muscles of the proboscis, which continue in action during the whole time the insect is feeding. By this combined agency of the acts of respiration and * Introduction, vol. iv. p. 470. the muscles of the proboscis, we are enabled to understand the manner in which the humming- bird sphinx extracts in an instant the honey from a flower while hovering over it without alighting, and which it certainly would be unable to do so rapidly were the ascent of the fluid dependent only upon the action of the muscles of the organ. In Diptera there is the same irregularity in the development of certain parts of the head as in Neuroptera and Hymenoptera. The shape of the head is usually that of a flattened hemi- sphere, with its base or occipital region con- cave, and approximated to the prothorax, as in the common house-flies, Muscida, the blood- suckers, Tabanida, and the gad-flies, (Estrida. But in others, as in the gnats, Culicida, the long-legs, Tipulida, and the Asilida, (fig. 349,) it is either convex at its occipital sur- face or extended in the form of a short neck. In the latter instances the occipital and epi- cranial regions are large and distinct, and the cornea: are protuberant, and situated a little anteriorly at the sides of the head, but do not much encroach upon the epicranium. This is not the case in the Tabanida;, &c. in which they occupy nearly the whole of the epicranial region. But in most of the genera in which the eyes are thus expanded, there is usually, as in Neuroptera, some portion of the epicranial region still existing in the form of a small triangular space anterior to the inner margin of the corneae. On this space the longitudinal portion of the triangular suture is often distinctly marked, and extends backwards between the corneae to the occiput, as is well seen in Tabanus bovinus. Anteriorly it extends as far as the middle line behind the antennas, where it terminates, thus distinctly indicating the proper boundary of the clupeus posterior in this order. The whole front of the head or face is formed of the two clypei, which are so united together as to be scarcely distinguished as originally separate parts. They together form a broad and some- what lozenge-shaped plate, at the upper portion of which are situated the antennae, and at the lower or anterior, which is notched, the labrum, freely articulated with it, and which is usually concealed beneath it. In some genera, as in the Tabanida, the an- tennae are inserted on each side of the middle line, into little fossae close to the triangular suture; while in others,as in Ckrysotoxum and Conops, the place of these fossae is occupied by little elevations, upon which those organs are seated, sometimes nearly close together, as in Hargus. The face thus formed of the two clypei is developed laterally on each side of the corneae, and is gradually narrowed from its upper part to its lower, where it is articulated with the labrum. In Rhingia rostrata the posterior clypeus is elongated, and forms the long projecting front: it is deeply notched at its interior margin, where, as also in Volucella, is a very minute plate, apparently the ana- logue of the clypeus anterior. The cornea:, as above stated, are usually the most conspi- cuous parts of the head in Diptera, and form