536 ORGAN OF HEARING. Farther observations on the aqueducts.—The aqueducts, the one leading from the vesti- bule, and the other from the tympanic scala of the cochlea, are lined by a continuation of the thin and delicate pellicle which invests the in- terior of those cavities. Under the osseous scale, on the surface of the petrous bone, where the aqueduct of the vestibule ends, there is a small triangular pouch produced by a separation of the dura mater into two layers. Into this pouch the lining mem- brane of the aqueduct enters, and ends in a cul-de-sac. The pouch is called by Cotugno the membraneous cavity of the aqueduct. I found the structure just described of unusual size, in consequence of irregular development, in the ear of a man deaf and dumb from birth, which I examined some years ago. The trian- gular pouch in the dura mater was about one- third of an inch long at its sides, and was dis- tended by a clear liquid. Every time pressure was made on the distended pouch, a fine jet of liquid issued through a small opening which had been made in the superior vertical semicir- cular canal. Similar cases have been described by Mondini* and others. The lining membrane of the aqueduct of the cochlea ends, in like manner, in a cul-de-sac, which, however, is not so large as that of the aqueduct of the vestibule. The liquid contained in the labyrinthic ca- vity, or liquid of Cotugno, or perilymph. (Aquula Cotunnii.)—The cavities of the osseous labyrinth contain a liquid, the secre- tion, probably, of their thin and delicate lining membrane. They contain m> air, as has been asserted. The liquid called the liquid of Cotugno, or by De Blainville peri- lymph, must not be confounded with ano- ther which is contained in the interior of the membraneous, labyrinth. Dominico Cotugno,^ though not actually the discoverer of this liquid, yet took a more correct view of it than his pre- decessors in this branch of anatomical research, Valsalva,! Vieussens,§ Cassebohm,|| and Mor- gagni.H He in fact recognised in it a substance fulfilling some office in the exercise of hearing, a view of the matter which was admitted by I Jailer, and put beyond doubt by Ph. Fr. Meckel,** and since their time recognised by all physiologists. The perilymph occupies, in the vestibule and semicircular canals, all the space not taken up by the membraneous labyrinth. The cochlea contains nothing but it; and as all the cavi- * Comment. Bonon. torn. vii. Anatomia Surdi Nati. p. 422. t De Aqueductibus Auris Humans Anatomica Dissfrtatio, s. xxix.-xxxi. Neapoli, 1760. { De Aure Humana Tractatus, &c, cap. iii. s. 17, p. 79. Trajecti ad Rhenum, 1707. § Traite Nouveau de la Structure de l'oreille, p. 75. Toulouse, 1714. || Tractatus Quintus Anatomicus de Aure Hu- mana, &c, pp. 20-21. De Labyrintho. Hals Magd. 1735. 1; Epist. Anatom. xii. s. 64, p. 469. Venetiis 1740. *• Dissertatio Anatomico-Physiologica de Laby- rinthi Auris Cont-ntis, &c. Argentorati, 1777, s. 8. ties of the osseous labyrinth communicate, it is the same humour in each. In all fishes, except thecartilaginous with fixed gills, the labyrinthic cavity is very imperfect, being in many of them open towards the cranial cavity, or at the most separated from it only by a membraneous partition, as in the cod; hence the encephalic liquid in some of them is not dis- tinct from the perilymph whose function it must perforin. In thecartilaginous fishes with fixed gills, on the contrary, the labyrinthic cavity is completely separated from the cranial; therefore in them we meet with perilymph distinct from the encephalic liquid, and that, too, in pretty large quantity. In birds the perilymph is in much less quan- tity than in the mammifera, in proportion to the size of the membraneous labyrinth. In rep- tiles the quantity of perilymph is still less. Cotugno and Meckel supposed that the aqueducts were a sort of diverticula, or cavi- ties which served to let off the superabundant perilymph, when necessary, during the act of hearing. This opinion is, however, now-a-days very much questioned, and several anatomists, Brugnone, Ribes, Breschet, &c, refuse to those aqueducts the uses which Cotugno assigned them, and consider them merely as canals des- tined for the passage of bloodvessels. Although they may be insignificant in a physiological point of view, still, if the description I have given of them be correct, they must be consi- dered as something more than mere canals for the transmission of vessels. The constancy of the aqueducts, moreover, is another argument against their being mere vascular canals. Breschet,* and in Hildebrandt's Anatomieby Weberf the same idea is concisely expressed, explains the mode of formation of the aque- ducts by supposing that at first the labyrinthic cavity is nothing but a sac formed by a prolon- gation of the dura mater in the same way as the tunica vaginalis is of the peritoneum ; that as development proceeds, the tube of communi- cation between the labyrinthic sac of the dura mater and general cavity of the dura mater is gradually contracted and elongated ; and that as ossification extends, the tube becomes sur- rounded by osseous substance, and presents itself under the appearance of an aqueduct. "This view," says Breschet, "is rendered probable, for in many fishes the labyrinthic cavity forms one with that of the cranium, and if, in these animals, a prolongation of the walls of the cranium tended to separate the brain from the ear, there would result a small canal establishing a communication between the two cavities, and this canal would be nothing but an aqueduct." According to this view, the lining membrane of the labyrinthic cavity may be considered as a continuation of the arachnoideal layer of the dura mater, perhaps of the dura mater also. 2. The membraneous labyrinth, (labyrinthus membranaceus. Fr. Lubyrinthe membraneux. Germ. Das hdutige Labyrinth.)—Within the * Op. cit. t Hand iv. p. 32.