800 INSECTA. the maxilla and galea seeri^ more peculiarly adapted to the phytophagous feeders, since in the true carnivorous insects, Cicindelidce, tiger- beetles, and the larger Carabidtt, ground-bee- tles, the maxilla is more elongated, the inter- nal lobe, or apex of the lacinia, is more acute, and often armed with a sharp hook, and the galea assumes the form of a distinct palpus, shorter but similar in appearance to the true maxillary palpus. This is more manifestly the case in the tiger-beetles, in which the galea is a distinctly double-jointed palpus, placed on a feeler-bearer, and the lacinia is armed with along sharp hook, evidently more adapted for seizing and piercing its living food, like the canine teeth of carnivorous quadrupeds, than for comminuting it like the strong tuberculated galea of the vegetable-feeding Melolontha, or the tuberculated teeth of herbivorous quadru- peds. The office then of the galea, in dis- tinctly carnivorous insects, is simply that of a palpus or feeler, and in accordance with this view we find that in the tiger-beetles it is longer than the inferior lobe, or hooked por- tion of the lacinia. In the ground-beetles Mr. Newman has remarked that it is shorter than the lacinia, but, in the generality of the tribe, we have also found it longer, as in the rapacious Cicindelida, particularly in the lar- ger Carabida, and this is also the case in some of the Harpalida, particularly in one species, Zabrus gibbus, which is known to be a vege- table feeder. This form of the galea, however, seems more peculiarly to belong to the carni- vorous insects, as it is also found in the Dyti- cida?, but not, as we have seen, in the nearly allied but far less rapacious HydrophylidtB. On the other hand, in most insects which feed entirely on vegetable matter, the galea is of a more obtuse form, and is less distinct from the other parts of the maxilla than in the rapacious insects. Thus in the greater number of the true vegetable feeders the galea is short, thick, and densely covered with hair. This is the case not only with the maxilla?, but also with the mandibles in those insects whose food is the pollen and perhaps also the honey of flowers, as in the Cetoniida, and also in the Geotrupida and other Scarab/Bidx, which feed upon soft decaying vegetable matter. In the Cerambycida, as in the rare insect Monochamus sartor,* in the Lepturida, which are found upon umbelliferous plants feeding on the pollen and honey; and in the stag-beetle, Lucanus cervus, which subsists on the sap that flows from the wounded bark or roots of trees, the galea is always densely covered with hair, and sometimes elongated to a considerable extent, as in the stag-beetle. In those species which are purely phytophagous, as many of the Galerucidce and Chrysomelide, which feed on the parenchymatous structure of leaves, both the galea and lobus inferior are short, obtuse, and covered with stiff hairs,while in theCoccinel- lidce that very much resemble the latter insects, but are carnivorous feeders, the galea is longer and distinctly jointed, and resembles the same part in Hydrous, being still covered with hair. * Curtis's British Entomology, pi. 219. This is also the case in the common me;tl- beetle, Tenebrio molilor, which belongs to a family of less distinctly vegetable feeders. From these facts we are inclined to believe that the structure of the maxilla has much closer connexion with the kind of food and habits of the insect than that of either the labium or the palpi. The latter organs, how- ever, are subject to great variation in the form of the terminal joint, which in some species is much dilated and shaped like a hatchet, as in the common lady-bird, Coccinella, while in others it is acute or obtuse. The number of joints is usually four, and it has been sup- posed that there are never more, either in the maxillary or the labial palpi, in any Coleop- terous insect, but the Rev. Mr. Kirby* has mentioned an instance in which there appeared to be an anomalous condition of the maxillary palpi, in this respect, in one of the Geode- phaga, Sericoidia bembidioides, K. In one of the palpi in this insect there was a fifth joint, retractile within the fourth. Mr. Kirby sug- gests that since the fifth joint was not apparent in the other palpus, it may perhaps have been a false joint, produced by an effort of nature to repair a mutilated organ, but at the same time observes that if this were the case it is the only instance he has met with in true in- sects of the reproduction of a lost organ. The antenna constitute the remaining move- able parts of the head (fig. 369, a). They are occasionally absent in the larva, but never in the perfect state in any insects. They are twcr jointed organs, attached to the head by a dis- tinct and freely moveable articulation, in some insects near the middle of the front part of the head, but in Hydrous and most Coleoptera on each side immediately anterior to the cor- nea?, at the extremity of the epicranial suture, but never, so far as we are aware, in the epi- cranium itself. They are subject to much diversity of form, on which account they have been employed by naturalists as affording cha- racteristic distinctions of different families. They have been divided into several parts, only three of which appear to be generally applica- ble. These are the scapus, (jig. 371, m l),pedi- cella (2), and clavola (3).f The scapus, or basial joint, is usually very long, and often the most conspicuous part of the antenna. It is connected with the tornlus, or part upon which it moves, by means of a ball and socket arti- culation, beneath the external margin of the clypeus. The second joint, pedicella, in Hy- drous, as in almost every species, is a minute and nearly globular articulation, which allows of the freest motion, and supports the re- maining portion of the antenna, the clavola, which forms the chief part of the organ, and is that which varies most in general structure. When each succeeding joint of the clavola is gradually diminished in size from the base to the apex of the organ, as in the Gryllida, Achetida, and Blattidtz, Jig. 342 and 343, the antenna presents its simplest condition, and is * Fauna Borcali-Araericana, vol. iv. Insects,, page 15. pi. i. fig. 2. t Kirby and Spence, p. 515, et scq.