DIGESTION. 18 The most important of the proximate prin- ciples employed in diet are fibrin, albumen, oil, jelly, gluten, mucilage, farina, and sugar, to which may be added some others of less frequent occurrence. They are derived, more or less, from almost all the classes of animals and vegetables, and from nearly all their indi- vidual parts, their employment being regulated, in most cases, rather by the facility with which they are procured, and reduced into a form proper to be acted upon by the stomach, than by the quantity of nutritive matter which they con- tain. This is one of those subjects in which we have to notice the remarkable effects of habit and custom, both on the functions and the sensations. We find whole tribes of people living on a diet, which, to those unaccustomed to it, would be not only in the highest degree unpalatable, but likewise altogether indiges- tible ; while, by the various modes of preparing food, which have been suggested, either by luxury or by necessity, the most intractable substances are reduced into a digestible state.* The writers on dietetics have attempted to include all substances that are competent to afford nutrition under a few general principles, of which, as they exist in nature, they are supposed to be composed. Cullen, who may be considered as the first who attempted to in- troduce correct philosophical principles into this department of physiology, reduced them to two, the oily and the saccharine, and endea- voured to prove that all the animal fluids may be referred to these principles.! Magendie, on the contrary, proceeding less upon their chemical composition than upon the forms under which they present themselves, classes alimentary substances under the nine heads of farinaceous, mucilaginous, saccharine, acidu- lous, oily, caseous, gelatinous, albuminous, and fibrinous.J Dr. Prout, whose views on this subject are marked by his characteristic acuteness, reverts to the mode of Cullen, ad- mitting only of the oily, the saccharine, and the albuminous principles, which three, he conceives, form the " groundwork of all orga- nized bodies."§ Of animal compounds which are employed Stark's works, p. 94, 5; see also Lorry, Sur les ali- mens ; Plonk, Bromatologia; Soemmering, Corp. hum. fab. p. 241, 250; Richerand, El. Phys. § 3, p. 83 ; Parr's Diet. art. Aliment; Pearson's Syn- opsis, parti. ; Lawrence's Lect. p. 201, 9 ; Thack- rah's 2d Lect. on Diet, p. 54 et seq. ; Paris on Diet ; Kogct's Bridgewattr Treatise, part 2, ch. 3, § 1. * Elliotson's Physiol, p. 65, 6 ; Rogct, part 2, ch. 3, § 1. t Physiol. $211, and Mat. Med. v. i. p. 1, eh. 1, p. 218 et seq. { Physiol, t. ii. p. 3, 4; see also Fordyce on Di- gestion, p. 84 et seq.; Paris on Diet, part 2, p. 117 et seq. ; Richerand, El. Physiol. § 3, p. 82; Dumas, Physiol, t. i. p. 187 ; Davy's Lect. on Agric. Chem. p. 73 et seq. ; Londe, Diet, de Med. et de Chir. art. " Aliment," t. ii. p. 1 et seq; Ros- tan, Diet, de Med. art. " Aliment," t. i. p. 523 etseq.; Rullier, Ibid. Art. "Nutrition," t. xv. p. 161 et seq.; Kellie, in Brewster's Encyc. Art. " A liment." § Abstract of his Gulstonian Lecture, p. 5, 9. in diet milk may be regarded as holding the first place, both from its nutritive and its digestible properties, and as such it has no doubt been provided by nature for the newly-born animal, when it requires a diet, which may be adapted to the delicacy of its organs in its novel state of existence, while, at the same time, it pro- vides for its rapid growth. We accordingly find that the three principles mentioned above are combined in milk in a manner the most proper for this double purpose, and that there is no compound, either natural or artificial, which is equally well suited to it.* Next to milk, with respect to its nutritive properties, we may class eggs of various kinds, the mus- cular fibre of animals, and their gelatinous and albuminous parts, very few of which, how- ever, are employed in diet until they have undergone the various operations of cookery. Of these operations the most important in their dietetical effect is the formation of decoctions or infusions, constituting soups of all descrip- tions, in which we retain the more soluble, and, for the most part, the more nutritive matter, while the residue is rejected. The fish which are usually employed in diet consist of a much greater proportion of jelly and albumen than the flesh of the mammalia and of birds; these principles are united, in most cases, with a con- siderable quantity of oil. The most nutritive of the vegetable proximate principles is gluten ; it forms- a considerable proportion of certain kinds of seeds, and more especially of wheat, and we accordingly find that in all those countries which admit of the growth of this plant, and which have arrived at any considerable degree of civilization, wheaten bread forms the most important article of vegetable diet, and one which appears the best adapted for all ages and all constitutions. Next to gluten we may rank farina, both from its valuable properties and from the extent to which it is employed. It enters largely into the composition of wheat and of the other seeds of the cerealia, also of rice and maize, while it constitutes a great proportion of the whole substance of the leguminous seeds and of tubers. It also forms the principal in- gredient of the chesnut, and of the esculent alga?, so that, upon the whole, we may con- sider it as entering more largely into the aliment of mankind, m all different climates and situa- tions, than any other vegetable compound. Perhaps there is no proximate principle which contains in the same bulk a larger pro- portion of nutritive matter than oil, and we accordingly find that oil, as derived either from the animal or vegetable kingdom, enters largely into the diet of all nations. But it affords an example of one of those articles, which, al- though highly nutritious, is not very digestible without a due admixture of other substances, which may in some way render it more proper for the action of the gastric juice f It may * Prout, ut supra, p. 12. t It is upon this principle, rather than to the ab- sence of azote, that we should be disposed to account for the results of Magendie's experiments, in which