790 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. same as where the ulceration takes place in them jn the first instance. Rust is of opinion that, under the influence of the disease in ques- tion, the head of the bone becomes more volu- minous than in the normal state, and that from its gradual increase the cavity destined to re- ceive it can no longer contain it; that the cen- tre of the eminence becomes very vascular and softened, and presents evident traces of inflam- mation, which Rust thinks always begins in the membranous medullary tissue which occu- pies the interior of the cancelli of the head of the bone. Roche and Sanson, from whom we have taken this account of Rust's opinion, add that sometimes the articular head of the bone is not changed in volume, but that the cavity for receiving the head is filled by a swelling of the cartilage which clothes it, and by that of the cellular flocculi or Haversian glands. Having stated the opinions of those who would wish to arrange and distinguish from each other the different morbid affections of the hip-joint according to the different structures they originate in, we regret to feel obliged here to express our dissent from this arrangement, as we find the greatest difficulty in adhering to it practically. We have no doubt but that the disease of the hip, whether acute or chronic in its attack, may begin by an inflammation of the synovial membrane of the joint, and that occasionally, particularly in scrofulous subjects, the cancel- lary structures of the bones may be the first seat of the local disease ; we might even yield an assent to the opinion of some, that the car- tilages may in rare cases be the structures first engaged ; but if we seek for facts to convince the mind of the truth of all such speculations, we shall find but little that is satisfactory to guide us. Post-mortem examinations seldom reveal to us the state of the joint, until the dis- ease has made great ravages, and until several structures have been implicated ; the external signs of synovitis, chondritis, and osteitis, can- not, in our judgment, be distinctly recognized in all cases in an articulation so covered by muscles and so remote from the surface as the hip-joint is. We feel convinced, therefore, that in the present state of our knowledge the effects of disease on the articulation of the hip may be best considered under the fol- lowing heads: 1. acute arthritis coxa; 2. chronic strumous arthritis coxae; 3. chronic rheumatic arthritis coxae. 1. Acute Art/iritis coxa.—The following case presents an example of an ordinary case of acute arthritis coxae. Daniel Reddy, aet.18, a labourer, was admitted into the Richmond Hospital on the 11th of October, 1838. He now had all the symptoms of a very severe attack of acute inflam- mation of the hip-joint. He stated that he had always been remarkably healthy until about four weeks ago, when in consequence of having lain for some hours on damp grass, he had a shivering, which was succeeded by fever; on the following morning he had severe pain deep behind the great trochanter; he became so very lame and unable to walk from the pain in his left hip-joint, that he was compelled to keep his bed; he also complained of pain in the groin and startings in the limb. When the patient was supported as far as it was possible in the erect position, we observed posteriorly that there was a remarkable flatness and breadth of die nates of the affected hip, and that its lower fold had disappeared ; there was a gra- dual pyriform tapering down of the hip into the thigh, which was already much wasted; the pelvis itself was rotated on the spine, the left side being directed backwards, and the spinal column much curved forwards, rendering the abdomen very prominent in this direction. There was at first an apparent elongation of the limb, which soon became flexed on the pelvis, and so strongly adducted as to cross the median line, if the term adduction can be so applied. There was great heat all around the hip-joint; when pressure was made either on the great trochanter or in the groin, it caused great pain to the patient, and if the least movement was communicated it seemed almost insupportable. In bed he lay on the right or sound side, with the left side of the pelvis directed backwards, the left thigh and leg both much flexed and directed inwards, as already remarked, across the middle line ; he kept the limb by holding- it grasped with both hands near the knee. There was some fulness, fluctuation, and ten- derness on pressure over the left iliac fossa, and shooting pain passed down to the knee. There was constitutional fever and much general heat of surface. To rest and active treatment by leeching, blistering, and calomel with opium, his symptoms yielded for a time, then he re- lapsed, and such alternations occurred thrice, and then all the urgent symptoms subsided. In March his fever and constitutional distur- bance had disappeared, and from the recovery of his flesh and expression of countenance, we judged that this attack had passed over, but had left him liable to fresh and dangerous re- turns of inflammation from the most trivial causes, either local, such as injuries, or consti- tutional. In April there was a shortening of one inch and a half, the foot of the affected limb rested on the instep of the other in stand- ing, and in lying the knee was supported by a cushion placed above the other knee ; ad- duction extreme ; and although the thigh, leg, and foot were habitually somewhat inverted, eversion was admissible; behind there was a great widening of the buttock and retraction of the trochanter major; no fluctuation of matter could be felt about the joint, nor had he any pain in the knee or hip. Such, we imagine, is the more ordinary course of acute arthritis coxae. In this case acute synovitis followed the lying on the damp grass; there was noticed an apparent elonga- tion of the limb, which was of very short dura- tion, and was succeeded by a shortening at first very trifling, scarcely appreciable, but after a month half an inch, and at last fully an inch and a half. In consequence of the very decided elevation on the dorsum ilii of the great tro- chanter, with the habitual inversion, flexion, and adduction of the whole limb, we might be led to infer that in this case the articular liga-