ILIAC ARTERIES. 827 venous blood. The bladder also, like the heart, acquires an enormous developement of its muscular coat, when any obstacle obstructs the free flow of the urine from it. The physi- cal condition, then, of a hypertrophous organ differs but in degree from that of the part in its normal state. There are, in general, in- crease of^size, of weight, and of consistence, with more or less alteration of shape consequent upon the former; an increased supply of blood, and a consequent heightening of colour. To judge therefore how far an organ has experi- enced hypertrophy, the anatomist must care- fully compare its present condition, as regards size, weight, colour, consistence, and supply of blood, with the average state of the parts in health. Atrophy is not only opposite in its nature to hypertrophy, but it results from causes of an entirely opposite kind. A defective state in the nutritive process is its immediate cause :— the affected part shows manifest signs of wast- ing ; it diminishes in size and in consistence; it loses its colour from the deficient supply of blood ; its physical and vital properties are manifestly altered, and are fully developed. When the wasting has gone to its greatest ex- tent, the natural texture disappears, or is so altered as to present but few of the characters of its normal condition. As frequent exercise and use favour the production of hypertrophy, so on the other hand disuse and inactivity give rise to atrophy. Neither the vascular nor the nervous systems of such parts afford their wonted supplies ; and those physical characters which are present in hypertrophy in an exalted condition, are in atrophy either absent altoge- ther, or but feebly developed. The muscles of paralytic limbs, the hearts of old persons which have been overloaded with fat, the diminution in size and almost total disappear- ance of the thymus gland in the adult, the diminution of the left lobe of the liver in extra- uterine life, the obliteration and conversion into a fibrous cord of certain disused venous and arterial canals, and the wasting of the optic nerve where the eye is destroyed, are examples of atrophy of every day's occurrence. (See the articles on the morbid anatomy of the different textures and organs.) (R. B. Todd.) ILIAC ARTERIES* (so called from their situation in the iliac regions) are three upon each side of the body, viz. the primitive iliac, the internal and the external iliacs; they are the main arteries of the pelvis and the lower ex- tremity. Primitive iliac arteries (common iliacs, * But little dissection is necessary to display the iliac arteries ; the abdominal wall having been di- vided and thrown bads, the peritoneum may be detached from without inward, along with the con- tained viscus, from the iliac fossa, which having been done to a sufficient extent, care being at the same time taken to leave uninjured the spermatic vessels the vas deferens and the ureter, the iliac arteries will be exposed still covered by their imme- diate investment. urterice iliac a primitive, s. communes, s. pelvi- crurules; Fr. Artiresiliuquesprimitives; Germ. Gemeinschaftliche Huft-pntsadern,) are two, one on each side: they are vessels of great size, from three-eighths to four-eighths of an inch in diameter, but short, their length varying from one and a half to two and a half or three-quarters of an inch, the arteries being longer or shorter, according to the height at which the aorta divides. They arise from the termination of the aorta, their origin corresponding, as a mean point, to the in- terval between the bodies of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebras, and somewhat to the left of the middle line of the vertebral column; the exact height of their origin, however, varies considerably, ranging in ordi- nary between the bodies of the third and fifth vertebrae ; but they have been found to arise very near to the diaphragm.*" From their origin they descend, and at the same time in- cline outward and backward, forming with each other an acute angle, but more so in the male than in the female subject, because of the greater width of the pelvis in the latter, until they reach a point ranging between the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra and the sacro-iliac articulation,f where they terminate by dividing into the internal and external iliacs. The point of reference usually assigned for this division is the sacro-iliac articulation ; but this appears not to be strictly correct, the exact point varying as well on the opposite sides of the same as in different subjects; for the most part the division takes place between the two points, which have been mentioned ; at times nearer to one, at times to the other, and according to Velpeau, it usually occurs nearer to the spine upon the right than upon the left side; hence, according to the same authority, the right external iliac artery is longer than the left, and were it pos- sible to ascertain these diversities of origin during life, advantage would result therefrom, inasmuch as the prospect of success in high ligature of the external iliac must be influenced by the height of its origin, and the difficulty of reaching the primitive or the internal iliacs must be increased in the same proportion. These views appear well-founded ; the division of the primitive iliac rarely takes place so far outward as the sacro-iliac articulation, and for the most part it is nearer to the body of the vertebra, or higher upon the right than the left side, and therefore the external iliac of that side is usually the longer, but this disposition is not constant; the division of the ri^ht primitive artery is not always higher than that of the left, nor conse- quently the right external longer, and therefore while probability is in favour of the conclusion which the facts stated indicate, it cannot be absolutely relied upon. The primitive iliac arteries are of the same size, and nearly the same length; the right, however, is considered for the most part some- what the longer, because of the situation of the * Velpeau, who cites Petsche on the authority of J. F. Meckel, t Bogros.