863 INSECTA. Fig. 339. Timurcha tenebricosa. other. It is an insect of this tribe, Haltica nemorum, that often occasions so much injury to the agriculturist by destroying his crops of turnips immediately after the young plant ap- pears above ground. The perfect beetle, scarcely larger than a millet-seed, deposits its eggs upon the under surface of the first leaves, and the larva when hatched penetrates into the substance of the parenchymatous tissue, be- tween the cuticle of the upper and under sur- face of the leaf, where it lives until it is ready to undergo its transformations in the ground.* In some years the plants are attacked by such prodigious numbers of these insects that many thousand of acres are destroyed in a few days. The loss sustained by the devastations of this insect in Devonshire in 1786, is said to have been not less than £100,000 \ In the fourth section, Pseudo-trimera, West. the insects have only three distinct joints in their tarsi, although a fourth one, exceedingly minute, and which like the additional one in theTetramera was first noticed by Messrs. Kirby and Spence,J exists at the articulation of the last joint,as in the insects of the third section. The Pseudo-trimera are distinguished by their tarsi, by their oval or hemispheric shape, and by the antennae ending in a three-jointed club. The larvae are hexapodous and active; those of the common lady-cow, Coccinella, feed upon aphides, and other genera upon fungi. In the fifth section, Heteroniera, there are five joints in the first and second pairs of legs, but only four in the third, (jig. 340). The palpi, four in number, are large and projecting, and the antennae, usually filiform or monili- Fig. 340. Blaps mortisaga, (Darkling-beetle). * Le Keux, Trans. Ent. Society, vol. ii. p. 24. t Kirby and Spence, Introduct. to Entom. vol. i. p. 185. { Id. vol. iii. p. 683, 4. form, are never terminated by a pectinated club. It includes many genera of dissimilar habits, the darkling-beetles, Blapsida, the meal-bee- tles, Tenebrionidte, and the Cantharida, the oil-beetles and blister-flies. In the sixth section, Brachelytra, (fig. 341), Fig. 341. Creophilus maxillosus, ( Rove-beetle). the body is elongated, and terminated by two exsertile papillae, the elytra short, quadrate, and often covering only the meso- and meta- thorax; the true or posterior wings, folded be- neath the elytra; head broad and flattened, mandibles large, hooked, and pointed, antennae often enlarged towards their extremities, and the tarsi of all the legs five-jointed. The larvae are active and voracious, and undergo a complete metamorphosis. The situation assigned to this group of in- sects by different systematists has varied con- siderably. Many authors have placed them with the pentamerous insects, unto which from their habits and number of joints in their tarsi they appear to belong. Thus Dejean assigned them a position between the Hydr'adephaga and Phylhydrida; Dr. Leach* between the Silphida and Dermestida; Mr. Kirby, in his recent work,f between the Adephaga and Necrophaga; and, lastly, Mr. Westwood J between the Dermestida and Byrrhida. On the other hand Mr. Stephens, after Linne and Fabrieius, has placed them at the end of his Coleoptera, thinking, probably, as Mr. Kirby has remarked, that they are connected with the following orders, Dermaptera and Orthoptera, by their abbreviated elytra, and by their anal papillae or styles; as they are also, probably, by the shortness and structure of their alimen- tary canal, which in many respects as much resembles that of the ForficulidcE or Blattidce, as the Adephaga or Necrophaga. Order II. DERMAPTERA. Wings four, anterior ones (elytra) crustace- ous, quadrate, and divided by a straight suture; not employed in flight; posterior ones mem- branous, folded longitudinally and transversely, only partially covered by the elytra; anus armed with large moveable forceps. Larva active, resembles the perfect insect. Metamor- phosis incomplete. The single family of this order, Forficulida, (Earwigs) are readily distinguished from the * Article Entomology, Edin. Encycl. vol. ix. f Insects, Fauna Borcali-Americana, p. 85 et seq. 1837. X Introduc. to the Modern Classification of In- sects, &c. 1838-9.