101 END0SM0S1S. water with the positive pole. I soon saw the water rise in the tube of the instrument: en- dosmosis had taken place. The similarity of effects led me to admit that some particular and unknown mode or form of electricity was the cause of the endosmosis produced by the heterogeneous nature of fluids. It was in vain, however, that I tried to discover signs of this electricity with the most delicate electro- meters. In reflecting afterwards upon what might be the common cause of the phenomenon pre- sented in Porret's experiment and that of or- dinary endosmosis, I was inclined to think that electricity might not be the immediate cause of the effects exhibited, and that it only acted in the case cited by producing heteroge- neousness of quality in the two fluids subjected to the positive and negative poles. Experience seems to have confirmed my doubts on this point. I took a small endosmometer of glass, closed by a piece of bladder, and filled its re- servoir with water coloured blue with the co- louring matter of violets; I plunged the reser- voir of this endosmometer into the same co- loured water contained in a small glass vessel; I put this latter fluid in communication with the positive pole of the voltaic pile, and the interior fluid of the endosmometer in commu- nication with the negative pole. The exterior blue fluid soon became red, and consequently acid, and the interior blue fluid became green, and consequently alkaline. These two fluids having thus become heterogeneous, to this may be ascribed the endosmosis which manifested itself, and which increased the volume of the interior fluid at the expense of the volume of the exterior fluid. Thus electricity would not be in this case the immediate cause of endos- mosis, but the remote one ; it would only act in producing the heterogeneous quality in the two fluids, and it would be this quality which would produce the passage of fluids as in the experiments on endosmosis, the discovery of which belongs to me. But let us now inquire in what way hetero- geneousness of quality in two fluids, separated by a membranous partition, occasions the phe- nomenon of endosmosis. Upon this point opinions are greatly divided. M. Poisson and Mr. Power have each, in his own way, given an analytical explanation of the phenomenon, and ascribed it to the action of the capillary canals of the porous septum interposed be- tween»the two fluids. In this explanation the phenomenon of the current of exosmosis is set aside, or regarded as occurring merely acciden- tally. Now this is entirely opposed to the fact, —we have constantly evidence of the simulta- neous existence of the two opposite and une- qual currents of endosmosis and exosmosis. Endosmosis by others has been held to be simply the effect of the viscidity of one of the fluids divided by a porous septum. This visci- dity prevents the upper fluid from permeating the interposed septum, whilst the inferior fluid, little or not at all viscid, filters readily through the septum and mingles with the upper fluid, whose volume it consequently increases. This opinion, published by a man of distinction, de- serves to be seriously investigated. When an equal weight of gum arabic and of sugar is dissolved in two equal weights of water, the viscidity of the different solutions is by no means the same, the solution of the gum is ob- viously more viscid than that of the sugar. Now if these two solutions be divided by a piece of bladder, the current of endosmosis will be found to flow from the solution of the gum towards that of the sugar ; in other words, from the more viscid to the less viscid fluid; in this instance, consequently, we see the more- viscid fluid permeating the membrane with greater facility or in greater quantity,than the1 less viscid fluid. More than this, the same phenomenon takes place if the quantity of the gum be made double that of the sugar. I have, for instance, tried a solution of two parts of gum arabic in thirty-two parts of water, (den- sity 1.023,) and a solution of one part of sugar in the same quantity of the menstruum, (den- sity 1.01-1,) divided by a piece of bladder, and found that the endosmotic current was still directed from the solution of the gum towards that of the sugar. These facts suffice to prove- that the endosmotic current does not always flow from the less towards the more viscid fluid. It is not, therefore, the inequality of vicosity in these two fluids which is, in this instance, the cause of their unequal permeation across the porous lamina which separates them. In order to place these facts beyond a doubt, the comparative viscidity of the gum-water and the sugar-water which were made use of in the experiments of which I have been speaking, required to be accurately measured. Such a comparative estimate of the viscidity of fluids may be obtained by observing the time which an equal quantity of each of them, at the same temperature, takes to run through a glass capil- lary tube. In this way I tried, 1st, pure water; 2d, a solution of one part of sugar in thirty-two parts of water; 3d, a solution of one part of gum-arabic in thirty-two parts of water; 4th, and lastly, a solution of two parts of gum in thirty- two of water. With a temperature of +7° cent. I found that fifteen centilitres of pure water passed through a capillary tube of glass in one hundred and fifty-seven seconds; that fifteen centilitres of the solution of one part of sugar in thirty-two of water passed through the same tube in one hundred and fifty-nine seconds and a half; that fifteen centilitres of the solution of one part of gum in thirty-two of water passed through in two bundled and sixty-two seconds and one-third ; and that the same quantity of the solution of two parts of gum in thirty-two of water required three hundred and twenty-six seconds to pass through. From these experiments it appears that the viscidity of the solution of sua;ar, in the propor- tion of one to thirty-two of water, (density 1.014,) is very little above that of pure water; that the viscidity of the solution of gum-arabic, in the proportion of one to thirty-two of water, is much greater than that of the sugared water