779 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE HIP-JOINT. of some magnitude (accessory ligament), arising from the inferior anterior spine of the ilium and the space beneath, from which they descend, diverging to be inserted into the anterior inter- trochanteric line ; these fibres are so much de- veloped in some instances as almost to re- semble a distinct ligament. At this point the capsule is nearly half an inch thick. Externally its thickness is considerable, though somewhat less than at the point last described. From the pubis a smaller and thinner band of acces- sory fibres may be traced towards the lesser trochanter, strengthening the capsule in this situation ; between the two accessory bands in the centre of the anterior surface, the capsule is extremely thin, and sometimes wholly destitute of fibrous tissue, being altogether composed of synovial membrane, and a little cellular tissue, by which it is separated from the bursa that lies under the tendon of the psoas muscle: this bursa, moreover, sometimes communicates with the cavity of the joint through an opening in this situation. The internal surface of the capsule invested by its synovial membrane corresponds to the cotyloid ligament, to the neck and a portion of the head of the femur. The external is covered anteriorly by the rectus femoris, psoas, and iliacus muscles, internally by the obturator externus and pectineus; posteriorly it lies upon the quadratus femoris, gemelli, pyriformis, and obturator internus, and superiorly the gluteus minimus adheres very closely to it. The capsule of the hip-joint, although stronger, is not so long or so loose as that of the scapulo-humeral articulation, neither is it pierced by any tendon. Synovial membrane.—To facilitate descrip- tion, let us commence at the greatest circum- ference of the head of the femur. From this point the synovial membrane passes outwards over the neck of the bone as far as the attach- ment of the capsular ligament; from the bone it is reflected on to the deep surface of this ligament, along which it passes to the line of its attachment to the os innominatum and transverse ligament: along that line it is re- flected again on to the margin of the acetabu- lum over the cotyloid ligament into the cavity, which it completely lines, and from which it is carried by the round ligament, which it invests, to the head of the femur. Arteries.—The hip-joint is supplied with blood by branches from the obturator artery, derived from the internal iliac or from the in- ternal circumflex branch of the femoral. These are distributed, some in the fat and cellular tissue, filling the excavation at the bottom of the acetabulum, whilst others ramify on the ligamentum teres, and are conducted by it to the head of the femur. It not unfrequently occurs that the joint receives blood from both these sources. Nerves.—These are derived from the obtu- rator, which uniting with the deep division of the anterior crural cause the pain to be referred to the knee in some diseases of the hip-joint. Motions.—The motions of this joint are mostly performed by the femur upon the os innominatum, and consist of flexion, exten- sion, abduction, adduction, circumduction, and rotation. In slight flexion the head of the femur revolves upon its axis in the cotyloid cavity; the anterior portion of the capsular liga- ment being relaxed, whilst the posterior is rendered proportionally tense. If this motion be augmented to any considerable extent, the capsular ligament is relaxed to a greater degree anteriorly, whilst posteriorly, in consequence of the distance between its two points of attach- ment being increased, it is very tense, and ren- dered convex by being stretched over the head of the femur, which is now very prominent in this situation, resulting from the altered re- lations between it and the acetabulum. The anterior part of the head of the femur is placed against the deepest portion of the acetabulum, whilst its broad articulating surface situate above the depression for the round ligament is directed backwards, where the acetabulum is too shallow to receive it completely ; it there- fore forms a projection in this situation, a pro- jection which, in my opinion, ought rather to be attributed in this instance to the natural formation of the parts than to any displacement of the head of the bone. When excessive flexion is combined with adduction, the head of the femur glides from before backwards, and from within outwards in the acetabulum; its anterior portion is con- cealed in tins cavity, whilst its posterior emerging lies against the capsular ligament, considerably increasing its tension. To pro- duce these motions muscles of great power are employed ; in some these agents are not con- fined merely to one joint, but have two oppo- site functions to perform, being flexors of one joint at the same time that they extend another. In abduction, when the lower extremity of the femur is separated from the median line, its head is naturally directed downwards, its inferior portion being forced against the capsular ligament; therefore when the motion is carried to any great extent the ligament is liable to rupture, and allow the head of the femur to escape over the internal lip of the acetabulum into the obturator foramen. In adduction the same occurs as in abduc- tion, but in an inverse direction, with this ex- ception, that as the motion cannot be carried so far, and as in this case the head of the femur is opposed to the deepest portion of the acetabulum, dislocation cannot occur. Simple adduction, unaccompanied by any flexion of the joint, is very limited. Let any one, while standing in the erect pos- ture, approximate his knees, it will be found that the utmost he can do is to bring them very near to each other, but that he cannot press them against each other; if, however, the hip- joints have been previously very slightly flexed, then the knees may be easily pressed against each other, and the adduction may be carried to a much greater extent, so as to cross the legs. It is limited by the ligamentum teres and the external and anterior part of the capsular liga- ment.