570 HEARING. three, which are so situated that they correspond to the three dimensions of a cube, its length, breadth, and depth, and that every sound ar- riving in one of these three directions will always strike one canal at right angles to its axis, and another in its length. The position of these canals is likewise such, that the cor- responding canals of opposite sides cannot be parallel, and that therefore any sound which strikes the head in any given direction affects the semicircular canal of one side much more than the corresponding one of the opposite side, whereby it may be determined whether the sound coming in a straight line (from west to east for example,) has really moved from west to east, or from east to west."* They state that in animals in whom the semicircular canals are highly developed, the power of dis- tinguishing the direction of sounds is marked to a proportionate degree. Thus in the mole, the development of these canals is very con- siderable, and from a simple experiment it appears that this animal readily distinguishes the direction of sounds. A mole was intro- duced into a wide but flat vessel filled with earth, in which he was allowed to burrow, and it was found that the mole could be made to move about by sounding an instrument out- side the vessel; if the instrument were sounded on one side, the animal would always imme- diately turn to the other, f The fox seemed to distinguish the direction of sounds better than cats : if at the same time, and at opposite sides, the high tones of a little bell and the deep tones of a bass viol were sounded, the fox always turned to the side whence the high notes came. Cats seem to be sensible of the direction of high notes only. When upon a violin, or a flageolet, or upon a glass goblet containing water, high notes were sounded, the cats always turned towards the place whence the sound came, even although the in- strument was concealed from them : on the other hand, when a person seated on the ground sounded the low notes of a bass viol before several cats in a garden, they seemed to seek in all direc- tions for the place of the sounding body, without nitting upon the right one. The cow, the horse, the pig, and the rabbit seemed to mani- fest particularly little sensibility to the direction of sounds. The dog appears to have less power to distinguish the direction of sound than man; his smell seems to assist him, and it is well known that when a dog is called by his master, he commonly runs backwards and forwards for some time before he finds out the right direction. The human semicircular canals greatly exceed in width all others examined by Autenrieth and Kerner, but this excess is more as regards the canals properly so called, but does not apply to the ampullae. Scarpa had * Op. cit. p. 363. t This experiment, however, was repeated by Esser, who assures us that the direction of the movements of the mole was not influenced by the direction of the tones of the instrument. Kastner's Archiv. fur die gesammte Naturlehre, B. 12, s.,56. quoted in Treviranus, Ergchein. und Gesetze des Organischen Lebens. already remarked, that although the canals of oxen and horses were narrower than those of man, the ampullae were scarcely at all smaller than in the human subject. These observers further remarked, in many animals they ex- amined, an inverse ratio between the width of the ampulla and that of the canals; that the former were wider in proportion as the latter were narrow. In fine, they conclude that the wider the semicircular canals, the size of the animal being taken into account, the greater is the power of distinguishing the direc- tion of sound. Of the lower animals, the first in order as regards this power is the hedge-hog, which, after the human subject, has, relatively to its size, the widest semicircu- lar canals; we may form some idea of the width of these canals from the fact that in their centre they are nearly as wide as the semicircular canals of the pig, which is so very much larger an animal. Next to the hedge-hog stands the mole, whose canals are, proportionally to the size of the animal, both remarkably wide and long; they are peculiar also as projecting free (visible without any prepa- tion) into the cavity of the cranium. The mouse and the bat come next, then the fox and the dog,* the rabbit, the cat, the pig, the cow, the horse, and lastly the sheep. Professor Wheatstone advocates the theory that our notions of audible direction depend upon the excitation of those portions of the auditory nerve which belong to the semi- circular canals. He conceives that we dis- tinguish best the direction of those sounds which are sufficiently intense to affect the bones of the head, and that it is from the portion which is transmitted through those bones that our perception of the direction is obtained. Thus, we always find it difficult to tell by the ear the position whence the feeble tones of the (Eolian harp proceed. The three semicircular canals, then, being situated in planes at right angles with each other, are affected by the sound transmitted through the bones of the head with different degrees of intensity accord- ing to the direction in which the sound is trans- mitted ; for instance, if the sound be trans- mitted in the plane of any one canal, the ner- vous matter in that canal will be more strongly acted on than that in either of the other two ; or if it be transmitted in the plane intermediate between the planes of this canal and the ad- jacent one, the relative intensity with which those two canals will be affected will depend upon the direction of the intermediate plane. The direction suggested to the mind will cor- respond with the position of the canal upon which the strongest impression has been made.-t- * The width of the canals in dogs was found to vary in the different races. Autenrieth and Kerner, loc. cit. f Dr. Young thought that the semicircular canals seemed very capable of assisting in the estimation of the acuteness or pitch of a sound by receiving its impression at their opposite ends, and occa- sioning a recurrence of similar effects at different points of their length, according to the different character of the sound; while the greater or less