EYE. 193 which is very feeble; it thus becomesgodronne. If the crystalline be removed from its capsule without injuring the membrane which forms this canal, these godronne folds are not formed by inflation or only in a very slight degree, but the canal becomes larger. It is in man commonly a line and aquarter, aline and a half ortwo lines in breadth, and not larger in the ox." An- nexed is a representation of this canal of Petit on a large scale. Fig. 115. Fig. 116. As the nature of the connection between the choroid and the hyaloid membrane, the formation of the posterior chamber of the aqueous humour, and the structure of this canal of Petit, have been the subject of contro- versy, I venture to introduce here an extract on this subject from the paper published by me in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. " If the sclerotic, choroid, iris, and retina be removed one or two days after death, leaving the vitreous humour with the lens embedded on its anterior part, we observe a number of stria on the vitreous humour, converging towards the circumference of the lens, cor- responding in number, size, and form to the ciliary processes, giving the same appearance collectively that the circle of ciliary processes or corpus ciliare does on the choroid, and nar- rowed towards the nasal side as the corpus ciliare is. This appearance has been noticed by most authors, but some describe it as arising merely from the marks left by the ciliary processes, while others consider these stria of the same nature as those productions of the choroid, and call them the ciliary pro- cesses of the vitreous humour ; it is the corona ciliaris of Camper and Ziun. If we remove the black pigment with a camel-hair pencil, we leave those productions on the vitreous humour more distinctly marked than when covered by the colouring matter, and presenting all the characters above stated, commencing behind with a well-defined margin, and terminating anteriorly by attachment to the capsule of the lens, the furrows between them capable of receiving the ciliary processes of the choroid, and the folds calculated to be lodged in the corresponding furrows of these processes. The annexed figure is a representation of the vitreous humour of the human eye thus treated. " If the cornea and iris be removed from a human eye within a few hours after death, a dark circle surrounding the lens, between it and the anterior extremities of the ciliary pro- cesses, may be observed : this is the part of the corona ciliaris of the vitreous humour to which the ciliary processes of the choroid do not extend, which appears dark on account of its perfect transparency ; the converging strict are evident, even on this part where the ciliary processes are not insinuated, interrupting the view if we attempt to look into the bottom of the eye by the side of the lens. It is, in my opinion, therefore certain, that part of the vitreous humour enters into the formation of the posterior chamber of the aqueous humour. The demonstration of this fact is, however, attended with difficulty, because the flaccidity arising from even slight evaporation of the fluids of the eye permits the ends of the ciliary processes which present themselves in the posterior chamber of the aqueous humour to fall towards the circumference of the lens, and appear attached there. For myself I can say that having made the dissection in the way just pointed out, the eye of course in water, and beneath one of those globular vessels which I formerly described, I could see to the bottom of the eye through the space in front of the vitreous humour, between the ciliary processes and the margin of the lens; this space is, however, perhaps larger in some individuals than in others. Each fold of the corona ciliaris of the vitreous humour seems to consist of two layers of hyaloid membrane, capable of being separated one from the other byinrlation, and ad- mitting of communication with each other round, the lens. It appears to me that the canal of Petit or canal godronne is formed in consequence of these folds receiving the injected air one from the other ; it is, however, generally described as being formed by the membrane of the vitreous humour splitting at the circumference of the lens, one layer going before and the other behind that body, the canal existing between these two layers and the capsule of the lens. That the capsule of the lens has no share in the formation of the canal of Petit, I conclude from filling this canal with air, and allowing the part to remain for some days in water, and then with great care removing the lens included in its capsule; this I do not find, however, causes the air to escape from the cells, but leaves them presenting nearly the original appearance; and after the air has escaped, I can pass a small probe all round in this canal,