356 REGIONS OF THE FOOT. tendons in them, or, going still further, com- municates the inflammation to the tendon, and occasions it to slough. Moreover, the tendinous structure which envelopes some of these bursal cavities is the cause of those violent and alarming symptoms of constitu- tional irritation, by no means uncommon when only a very small quantity of matter has formed within them, a state sometimes almost instan- taneously relieved by a judicious opening made with the lancet, and giving exit to even so small a quantity of pus. 3d, Why severe contusions or lacerations are here so often followed by bad consequences, the power of repair in tendinous structures, which so largely enter into the composition of the parts about the foot, being small, and consequently the inflammation fre- quently proving the destruction either of the stiuclure or the functions of the parts affected. The study of the nature and position of these joints of the foot is of great interest and im- portance to the surgeon, and it will not be in- appropriate in this article to offer some obser- vations upon some of the operations in which they are concerned. Modern surgery, whose greatest triumphs have been in the saving of limbs, not in removing them, in discovering the least possible quantity of loss by which the disease might be eradicated, rather than the readiest method of taking off the entire limb, has taught us not to be deterred by the intrica- cies of the numerous joints of the foot, but fearlessly to lead the knife through any part of them, so that we may only save a serviceable portion, which may be more convenient than a wooden substitute. The removal of the toes at their joints is comparatively easy, though it should be remembered, in amputating at the metatarso-phalangeal joint, that this articulation is situated much deeper than the corresponding one of the hand, owing to the greater length of the web and greater thickness of the member itself. The metatarsal bones may be removed separately or altogether from their junction with the tarsus, as first done by Hey of Leeds, and described in his Surgical Observations. The removal of a single bone is, except it be either the first or the fifth, more difficult and even more dangerous, in regard to the liability to after inflammation, than the removal of the whole metatarsus. In performing this last operation, the guide for entering the whole row of joints is the projecting tubercle of the fifth metatarsal bone, immediately behind which the joint may be opened, and on coming to the projection of the inner cuneiform bone, (see Jig. 167,) most surgeons recommend the cutting Fig. 167. off its projecting part, rather than to finish by opening the joint. The tarsal bones have been extracted, both with and without the attached metatarsal bones. Of the former kind a very remarkable instance is given by Mr. Key in the second number of Guy's Hospital Reports, in which the only bones of the tarsus left were the os calcis, astragalus, scaphoid, and internal cuneiform bones as a support to the great toe. (Seeyfgs. 167 and 168, in the first of which the dotted line represents the portion of the bones of the foot which was removed in Jig. 168.) Fig. 168. Should disease or accident have destroyed all, or most of the bones in the front row of the tarsus, they may all be readily removed by amputation at the astragalo-scaphoid and calca- neocuboid joints, an operation generally known as that of Chopart, who first practised it. How far, however, such a portion of the foot pre- served is preferable to the use of a short wooden leg applied to the end of the limb, amputated a little above the ankle, (a plan which we have used with perfect success,) certainly admits of a doubt. At any rate its advantages cannot be put in competition with the principle so admi- rably illustrated by Mr. Key in the before mentioned case, of saving, if possible, a portion of the metatarsus and toes, though at the risk of a more painful, and perhaps more dangerous operation. Upon a general survey of the structure and form of the foot, we are struck with the differ- ence between this organ in man and in all other animals. The most striking peculiarities con- sist in the great breadth of the foot, its short- ness in proportion to the leg, the large size of the bones of the tarsus, the relative shortness and smallness of the four outer toes, and the great size of the inner one, the great strength of the calcaneum, and lastly, in those arches produced by the arrangement and form of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. The only animal that nearly approaches to the form of man, the monkey, yet differs from him in all these points. Its foot is narrower and longer in proportion to the leg, its tarsal bones are smaller, its four outer toes are long like the fingers, while the first is small, and separated from the rest. The calcaneum is relatively small, and inclines upwards at its posterior projection, while the peculiarities already spe- cified necessarily occasion that the arches of the foot are much less distinct than in man. Indeed, in supporting itself erect, the monkey rests very much on the outer side of the foot, probably on this account. In all other animals these differences are still more marked. What