873 INSECTA. the mouth is bounded by a membranaceous labium, while at its anterior part it is furnished with a proboscidal lip (fig. 358, B c), divided into four very minute palpiform organs. There are also two processes situated one on each side of the mouth in the second segment. At the base of the fourth segment are the two pro- jecting orange-coloured organs of a semicircular form, divided into what appear like single pedunculated eyes, but which are in reality external branchiae, and correspond to the spira- cles of the pro-thorax of the perfect insect (//). In the CEstrus ovis (fig. 360) the two sides of Fig. 360. 6 Head of larva of QZstrus ovis. 2, 3, 4, segment; a, optic nerve; b, epicranium ; c, labium; d, mandibles ; e, maxillce. the fissure that forms the anterior part of the mouth are developed into very distinct organs of vision (A), in which may be traced the nerves of two separate but nearly approximated eyes. The existence of distinct eyes in this larva is the more remarkable, from the circumstance that the larva resides in the frontal sinus of the skull of the sheep, where we sought for, and found the identical specimens upon which our obser- vations have been made. Organs of locomotion. We stated above that the true organs of locomotion are six in num- ber, both in the larva and perfect state, and that they are always attached to the second, third, and fourth segments of the body. They are distinguished from the false, or abdominal legs by their possessing distinct articulations or joints, by the strength and hardness of their texture, ;md by their general pointed form. In Coleopterous larvae they are of considerable length, and the parts of which they are composed are readily distinguished. These Fig. 362. Fig. 361. Fig. 361, Thoracic leg of larva of Cossus ligniperda (Lyonet). o, Coxa; b, femur ; c, tibia ; d, tarsus ;f, unguis. Fig. 362. Abdominal leg. are (figs. 361, 364 ***), as in the perfect insect, the claw {J'), the tarsus (cl), the tibia (c), the femur (6), and coxa, or hip (a). In all terrestrial larvae the legs are attached to the inferior parts of the segments; but in one remarkable genus of water-beetles the great Hydrous piceus, they were supposed by Frisch to be attached so much nearer to the dorsal than the sternal surface as to have the appear- ance of being actually placed on the back. But this is erroneous, the mistake having arisen from the peculiar formation of the head, which is flat on its upper, but convex on its under sur- face. The whole of these thoracic legs, in all larvae which possess them, are nearly equally developed, and do not present any marked difference of form or size, as is often sub- sequently found in the perfect insects. In the larvae of Lepidoptera they are exceedingly short and pointed, and in many Hymenoptera and Diptera are entirely absent. The false or abdominal legs are totally different in appear- ance and structure from the true or thoracic ones. Although varying in number in different species, they are universally present in the Lepidoptera (fig. 364, ttt) an<l m many Hymenoptera and Diptera. In some instances, as in many of the Geometridte, there is only a single pair at the anal extremity of the body ; while in others, as in some of the Tenthredinida, there are as many as eight pairs. In every instance they are soft and membranaceous, without distinct joints or articulations. In some of the Lepi- doptera their structure is exceedingly curious, and has been beautifully illustrated by Lyonet (fig- 362), in his anatomy of the larva of Cossus ligniperda. In that insect their shape resembles an inverted cone, with its apex trun- cated to form a flat sole, or foot, upon which the caterpillar walks. The sole in its middle can be rendered concave at the will of the animal, while around its margin are several rows of minute hooks, directed outwards, and when the sole of the foot is pressed firmly upon