ENTOZOA. 136 ous at the posterior part of the body. The nervous chord passes at a right angle to the transverse bands between them and the longi- tudinal muscles, and sometimes is included in loops of the former, as at d, fig. 88. Both the pendant processes and the transverse bands are composed of a homogeneous spongy tissue, without any central cavity, and appear to form a nidus of nutrient matter like the fatty omen- tal processes in higher animals. The longitudinal lines (c,c,fig. 86,88),which extend along each side the body of the Ascaris Lumbricoides, and which are very conspicuous Fig. 88. Nutritive processes and vascular canah magnified, Ascaris lumbricoides. externally through the transparent integument, consist each of a narrow flattened tract of opaque substance, by some anatomists considered as nervous, and a very slender vessel which ad- heres closely to the outer side of the band. The two bands become expanded at the an- terior extremity of the body, and unite in forming a circle around the oesophagus : the vessels, on the contrary, become detached from the bands, and pass transversely below the oesophagus to anastomose together, forming a simple loop or arch, the convexity of which is anterior. By pressure the reddish fluid con- tained in these vessels- may be made to tra- verse them backwards and forwards. With respect to the accessory glands of the digestive system of the Entozoa, I have hi- therto met with them in two species only of the Nematoidea, in both of which they pre- sented the primitive form of simple elongated unbranched cceca. The first being developed from the commencement of the alimentary canal, and co-existing with a pair of rudimen- tal jaws, must be regarded as salivary organs. They exist in a species of worm which infests the stomach of the Tiger, and which I have recently described under the name of Gnathostoma aculeatum.* They consist of four slender elongated cceca, communi- cating with the mouth, and gradually increas- ing in size as they extend backwards into the abdominal cavity, where they end each in a cul-de-sac; they are placed at equal distances around the alimentary canal, and have no at- tachment except at their open anterior extre- mity. The length of each ccecum is about one-twentieth of the entire alimentary canal. Their parietes under a high magnifying power present a beautiful arrangement of spirally decussating fibres. Their contents when recent are clear, but become opaque when immersed in alcohol. That the Gnathostoma is not the larva of an insect is proved by the complete development of the generative system, which resembles that of the Ascarides, and by the absence of a ganglionic nervous system. The second example of an accessory digestive gland occurs in a species of Ascaris infesting the stomach of the Dugong: here a single elongated ccecum is developed from the in- testine at a distance of half an inch from the mouth; and is continued upwards, lying by the side of the beginning of the intestine, with its blind extremity close to the mouth; from the position where the secretion of this ccecum enters the intestine, it may be regarded as re- presenting a rudimental liver.f Respiratory Organs.—The Entozoa have no distinct internal or external organs of respi- ration. The skin in many of the Trematoda and Acanthocephala is highly vascular,^ and the circulating fluids in these worms may be- . come oxygenated by contact with the vascular °°o°&S^y mucous membranes of the higher organized animals which they infest. In the Planarim the surrounding water is renewed upon the vascular surface of the body by means of the currents excited by the action of vibratile cilia; and the young of certain species of Distomata, which pass the first epoch of their existence under the form of Polygastric In- fusoria, freely moving in water, are pro- vided with superficial vibratile cilia arranged in longitudinal rows; but these organj| of lo- comotion and adjuncts to the respiratory pro- cess are lost when the Distomata resume their position as parasites in the intestines of the Fishes from which they were originally ex- pelled. Excretory glands.—As an example of an organ of excretion, we may refer to the glan- dular sac lodged in the enlarged extremity of the Distoma clavatum, which opens externally * Proceedings of the Zoological Society^Nov. 5, 1836. t See the Preparation, No. 429 A, Mus. Coll. Surgeons, Phys. Catalogue, p. 121. X Conf. Echinorhynchus vasculosus,Entoz.Synop. p. 581.