936 INSECTA. segments that follow the head, and form the thorax of the future imago, are more numerous and complex than those of the abdomen, because unto those segments belong the mus- cles of the proper organs of locomotion; be- sides which they contain also the rudiments of the muscles for the future wings. The muscles in the abdominal segments are fewer and far more simple than in the anterior part of the body, but their number, even in these, very far exceeds what at first might be expected. So numerous are they in every segment that Lyonet, in his immortal work on the anatomy of the larva 'of Cossus ligniperda, found two hundred and twenty-eight distinct muscles in the head alone, and, by enumerating the fibres in the layers of the different segments, reck- oned one thousand six hundred and forty-seven for the body, and two thousand one hundred and eighteen for the internal organs, thus making together four thousand and sixty-one muscles in a single larva. In the larva of Sphinx ligustri we have found the muscles equally numerous with those discovered by Lyonet in the Cossus, but in attempting to describe them it has appeared preferable, as we have stated, to consider each layer of fibres collectively as a separate muscle. In describ- ing the muscles of the ventral portion of a segment, we formerly* ventured to designate them by names which were indicatory either of their position or use, and we shall continue to do so on the present occasion. A description of the muscles of a portion of a segment will suffice to convey some idea of their multiplicity and use. We may first state generally that those muscles which form distinct layers or act in concert with each other, are inserted into slightly elevated ridges of the tegument, while a single muscle, or the tendon of many mus- cles united together, is attached to an elevated process of the tegument, which at that point is thicker than in other places, and thus affords a means of attachment. There are always three ridges for the attachment of muscles be- tween two abdominal segments. The middle one is the largest, and affords both origin and insertion to the straight or longitudinal muscles, while the others in like manner afford origin and insertion to the oblique ones. On removing the fat and viscera from the abdomen of the larva, the first layer that pre- sents itself, and forms the interior parietes of the body, consists of many longitudinal fibres, which extend from the margin of one segment to that of another as flat, straight muscles, resembling the recti abdominales of vertebrated animals. These muscles extend from the an- terior margin of the sternal surface of the second segment to the posterior part of the twelfth ; but it is only at the anterior margin of the sixth segment, which is in reality the commencement of the true abdomen, that they can properly be considered as recti muscles, since it is at this part of the body that they begin to be fully developed. While passing * Phil. Trans, part ii. 1836. through the thoracic segment they are nar- rower, thinner, and somewhat differently ar- ranged. They are connected anteriorly with the head, and posteriorly with the sphincters-. They are the most powerful of all the muscles of the abdomen, and are those which are most concerned in shortening the body, and effecting the duplicature of the external teguments, during the changes of the insect. They are also those which mainly assist in locomotion during the larva state. There are four sets of these longitudinal muscles, two on the dorsal and two on the ventral surface of the body (Jig. 400, A A). Those on the dorsal surface are placed one on each side of the dorsal vessel or heart, and those on the ventral one on each side of the nervous column. The dorsal sets extend from their attachment to the upper part of the head through the thorax and abdomen to the anus? in the thirteenth segment. In the thoracic region they are narrow like the cor- responding muscles of the ventral surface, but when the insect is undergoing its changes they become enormously enlarged in this region, and form the great depressor muscles of the wings (jig. 402, x), which are some of the most powerful muscles of the thorax, and ex- tend between the meso-andmeta-phragma. The ventral recti consist of four sets of fibres, two on each side of the nervous cord (jig- 400, 1,2), and between which there is a slight in- terspace. That set which is placed nearest to the nervous cord and median line of the body, is composed of only three narrow fas- ciculi of fibres, and may be called the recti minores (2), while the other set, situated more externally and covering the greater portion of the ventral surface of the segment, is broad and powerful, and consists of from twenty to twenty-five distinct fasciculi or fibres, and may be called the recti majores (1). The origins and insertions of these are different from those of the smaller recti. The recti majores of one segment arise from the middle ridge between two segments (3), and are inserted close to the origin of the corresponding muscles of the next segment, while the recti minores arise from the most posterior of the three ridges, about one-fifth of a segment posterior to the middle ridge, over which they pass, and pro- ceed in a direction parallel to the larger ones to be attached to part of the corresponding ridge in the next segment. There is a small muscle that originates from the same ridge as the greater rectus, between it and the smaller, which, from its passing directly to the alimen- tary canal, and connecting that viscus to the exterior tegument of the body, may be called the retractor ventriculi (5). There is one of these muscles, as shown also by Lyonet in the Cossus, on each side of the nervous cord, from the fourth to the eleventh segment. On re- moving the recti, we expose two layers of very fine thin muscles. The upper layer (B) con- sists of nine distinct fasciculi of fibres, which pass backwards and outwards, in a slightly diagonal direction (6), but less diagonally than the second layer (7), that lies immediately