ENTOZOA. 135 gus (b,Jig.. 95) is round and slightly contorted, and suddenly dilates at the distance of about two inches from the mouth into the intestinal canal; there is no gastric portion marked off in this canal by an inferior constriction, but it is conti- nued of uniform structure, slightly enlarging in diameter to the anus. The chief pecu- liarity of the intestine in this species is that it is a square and not a cylindrical tube, and the mesenteric processes pass from the four longitudinal and nearly equidistant angles of the intestine to the abdominal parietes. These processes, when viewed by a high mag- nifying power, are partly composed of fibres and partly of strings of clear globules, which appear like moniliform vessels turning around the fibres. The whole inner surface of the abdominal cavity is beset with soft, short, obtuse, pulpy processes, which probably im- bibe the nutriment exuded from the intestine into the general cavity of the body, and carry it to the four longitudinal vessels, which tra- verse at equal distances the muscular parietes. The analogous processes are more highly de- veloped in the Ascaris lumbricoides, in which species we shall consider the digestive and nutritive apparatus more in detail. The mouth (d, fig. 87 and fig. 85) is sur- rounded with three tubercles, of which one is superior (a, fig. 85), the others inferior (b, b); they are rounded externally, triangular inter- nally, and slightly granulated on the opposed surfaces which form the boundaries of the oral aperture (c). The longitudinal muscles of the body are attached to these tubercles; the dorsal fasciculus converges to a point to be inserted into the superior one; the ventral fasciculus contracts and then divides to be inserted into the two which are situated below. By means of these attachments the lon- gitudinal muscles serve to produce the divarication of the tubercles and the open- ing of the mouth; the tu- bercles are approximated by the action of a sphincter muscle. The oesophagus (e,fig. Head and mouth of 87) is muscular and four AscarU lumbricoides. or five lines in length, nar- row, slightly dilated pos- teriorly, and attached to the muscular pa- Fig. 86. Fig. 85. Transverse section of Ascaris lumbricoides, magnified. rietes of the body by means of slender, radiated filaments: its cavity is occupied by three lon- gitudinal ridges, which meet in the centre and reduce the canal to a triangular form. The oesophagus is separated by a well-marked con- striction from the second part of the digestive canal, which in the rest of its course presents no natural division into stomach and intestine. The anterior portion of the canal is attached by filaments, as in the Strongylus, to the pro- cesses and lining membrane Fig. 87. of the abdominal cavity. Those rf which come off from the sides of the canal (d, d) communi- cate with the nutritious vessels and appendages, and in pass- ing from the intestine they diverge and leave on each side a triangular space, of which the base corresponds to the lateral line or vessel (e, fig. 80), and the apex to the side of the intestine. These lateral spaces are filled with a serous fluid, and are continuous with the common cavity contain- ing the alimentary and gene- rative tubes. About the mid- dle of the body the intestine becomes narrower, being here surrounded and compressed by the aggregated loops of the oviduct or testis, and the me- senteric processes or filaments diminish in number, and at last leave the intestine quite free, which then gradually en- larges to within a short dis- tance of its termination (h). The parietes of the intestine are thin and transparent, and easily lacerable ; they consist of a gelatinous membrane, the internal surface of which is disposed in irregular angular meshes and transverse folds, which gradually disappear to- wards the lower part of the canal. The soft obtuse processes (f,./', fig. 86) analogous to those which project from the lining membrane of the abdo- minal cavityin the Strongulus, acquire a considerable deve- lopment in the Ascaris. They arise chiefly in the dorsal and ventral regions, and are con- tinued from numerous trans- verse bands (e,e,fig. 88) which pass across the body from one lateral absorbent vessel to the other. In the anterior third of the body these transverse bands (vaisseaux nourriciers, Cloquet,) are quite concealed Digestive and gene- ft the Passes in question rative tubes, Ascaris ( appendices nourriciers, Clo- lumbrkoides, male, quet), but are very conspicu-