ENTOZOA. 134 fill ovaries in the female and testes in the male. They are extremely minute at their commencement, but increase so as to be readily visible in the middle of their course. They are trans- parent and irregularly dila- ted or sacculated at inter- vals. Posteriorly they ter- minate in a cul-de-sac, and have no anal outlet. They contain a transparent in- odorous albuminous liquid, give off no visible lateral branches, and do not com- municate together in any part of their course. Be- sides these canals we find in the cavity of the body of an Echinorhynchus two long wavy tubes called lemnisci, (d, d, Jig. 83). They are attached to the lateral parts of the neck by an extremely attenuated an- terior extremity, float freely in the remainder of their extent, and terminate in an enlarged obtuse and imper- forate extremity. They are of a whitish colour, tran- sparent in the living worm, but become opake after death; they present consi- derable variety of form, and would seem to be highly irritable parts, since they are not unfrequently found fold- ed into a packet, or twisted both together, and turned to one side of the body. When examined with a high microscopic power, a tran- sparent vessel is perceived running through the centre and ramifying as it descends in the substance of the lem- niscus, which is soft, fragile, and granular. Cloquet com- pares these organs to the nutrient processes which project into the abdominal cavity of the Ascaris, and they are also regarded by Goeze, Zeder,and Rudolphi as belonging to the organs of nutrition. In the Cazlelmintha or Cavitary Entozoa, the ali- mentary canal is single and of large size, and extends nearly in a straight line from the mouth to the anus, which are at opposite extremities of the body. With regard to the existence of an anal outlet, the parasitic Entozoon, ( Syngamus irachealis, Siebold,) which infests the windpipe of our common Gallinaceous Birds, presents an exception. It was supposed by Montague to be a singleindividual with two pedunculate mouths: Digestive and gene- rative organs, Echi- norhynchus gigas, female. Transverse section of Echinorhynchus gigas. and by Rudolphi was placed in the same group as Distoma furcatum, which is a true double- necked Trematode worm. But the digestive system has the essential character of the ccelel- minthic structure, the intestine floating freely in an abdominal cavity. The orifice at the extremity of the smaller or male branch leads to a muscular oesophagus, which is continuous with a somewhat broader reddish-brown intes- tine, continued in a tortuous manner down the neck, and terminating in a cul-de-sac prior to the confluence of the extremity of this branch with the body of the female. The mouth of the larger branch, which is the true continua- tion of the larger and single body, leads first to a horny basin-like cavity, which communi- cates by an opposite pore, surrounded by six horny hooks or teeth, with the oesophagus, from which a similar reddish-brown intestine is continued, but in a more tortuous manner than in the male, through the whole body, ter- minating in a cul-de-sac at the caudal extre- mity. In both intestinal canals are molecules of apparently the colouring matter of blood. Their inner surface is reticulate. In the freedom of these intestines from the muscular parietes of the body, and in the cy- lindrical form of the latter, we have a close affinity to the Nematoid type: but the intestine is blind—without an anal outlet. It is not, however, bifurcate, as in the true Trematoda. In the genus Linguatula or Pentastonia of Rudolphi, the intestine is a simple straight tube, and is surrounded by the convolutions of the oviduct: the two intestinula cceca with which Rudolphi describes the alimentary canal as being complicated,* appertain to the gene- rative system, and communicate exclusively with the oviduct: the intestine terminates by a distinct anus at the posterior extremity of the body. In the Nematoidea the intestine is also frequently concealed in a part of its extent by the coils of the genital tubes, but these are disposed in masses by the side of the alimen- tary canal, and not wound around it as in the Linguatula: in most species the alimentary canal is attached to the internal parietes of the abdominal cavity by means of numerous small laminated or filamentary processes. In the Strongylus gigas the mouth (A, Jig. 71) is surrounded by six papillae; the cesopha- * .Synopsis Ento?. p. 534.