FEMORAL ARTERY. 236 by the state of the vessel and by the position of the limb; when the artery is empty, they are less marked than when it is full; and when the limb is extended, they are removed; when flexed, they are reproduced ; while in some subjects again, they appear to be absent, the line of the vessel's course being almost direct. The degree to which the artery passes back- ward is not equally great at all parts of its course: in its upper half, i.e. from Poupart's ligament until it lies upon the adductor longus muscle, the vessel inclines much more back- ward than in the remainder, and at the same time describes a curve concave forward, but both the latter particulars are more remarkable when the thigh is flexed, and in thin subjects, than when the limb is extended and in sub- jects which are in good condition ; in the last case the vessel is supported and held forward by the deep fat of the groin situate behind it. In its lower half the artery inclines less back- ward, being supported by the muscles against which it rests. The femoral artery is also described as in- clining inward * during its descent; but this statement requires coirection, or at least ex- planation. The vessel certainly does incline inward at some parts of its course, and for the most part it does so as it descends from the os innominatum into the inguinal space, form- ing thereby the curvatures which have been mentioned; but the general direction of it is either slightly outward, or at the most directly downward, not inward: the opinion that it is inward has arisen, it is to be supposed, from a partial view of its course, which, in conse- quence of its serpentine direction, is likely to mislead, and is at variance with that of the popliteal artery, (the lower part of the same vessel,) which is decidedly outward. In order to be assured of the true direction of the vessel, the writer has tested it carefully by means of the plumb-line, and he has always found that it inclined somewhat outward from the perpendicular: the degree, however, to which the proper femoral artery does so, is not considerable, though sufficient to place the matter beyond doubt. It is to be borne in mind that, in determin- ing the direction of the vessel's course, the limb must be placed in the bearing which it holds naturally in the erect posture, inasmuch as an inclination to either side will influence materially the direction of the artery: thus an inclination of the limb inward will at once give it the same tendency, and render it spiral, both which conditions are removed by placing the limb in its ordinary position. In consequence of the course which the vessel pursues, and of the oblique position of the femur conjointly, the femoral and popliteal arteries hold very different relations to the shaft of that bone ; the former, in the first stage of its course, being in a plane anterior to the femur, and in the middle of the limb being upon its inside; while the latter is situate be- hind the bone, and at the inferior part of the * Uoycr, Clo(]ucl, Harrison. popliteal region corresponds to the axis of its shaft: hence the artery is said* to pass some- what in a spiral manner in reference to the thigh bone; but this is incorrect, the spiral course being only apparent and resulting from the combined effect of the obliquity of the artery itself backward and outward, and of the shaft of the femur inward and forward : that this is so may be satisfactorily shewn by the application of the plumb-line to the course of the artery, upon the different aspects of the limb; from which it will appear that, allow- ance being made for the serpentine deviations already adverted to, the general course of the vessel is, quum proximi, straight, and that it cannot, at all with propriety, be said to be spiral, this being not a real but an apparent direction, the result of the circumstances which have been mentioned. The point at which the femoral artery com- mences is referred by most writers to Poupart's ligament; this method of demarcation is at- tended with the inconvenience, that during life the exact situation of the ligament is difficult to determine, inasmuch as it does not run direct from one attachment to the other, and that in dissection its position is immediately altered on the division of its connections with the adjoining fascia-: hence the student, not having a fixed point of reference, is often at a loss to distinguish between the iliac and femo- ral arteries, and mistakes affecting the relations of the most important branches of those vessels are liable to be made. For those reasons it appears to me that it would be much pre- ferable to select some fixed and unchanging point to which to refer the commencement of the artery; and for this purpose I would suggest the ilio-pectineal eminence of the os innominatum, which, to the student at least, if not to the practical surgeon, will afford an unerring guide to the distinction of the one vessel from the other; the femoral artery, at its entrance into the thigh, being situate im- mediately external to the inferior part of that prominence,t with which point the middle of the line connecting the anterior superior spi- nous process of the ilium and the symphysis of the pubis will also be found to correspond. The precise situation of the vessel is referred by some to the centre of Poupart's ligament, or a point midway between the anterior supe- rior spinous process of the ilium and the spinous process of the pubes; by others to a point midway between the spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis of the pubes. With regard to this question it is to be ob- served that the relation of the artery to the points between which it is situate is not strictly the same in all instances; that in some it will be found to correspond to the former, and in others to the latter account; but that the latter relation appears to prevail in so much the greater number, that it ought to be adopted as the rule. According to Velpeau it is distant two inches and a quarter from the spinous pro- * Harrison, op. cit. p. 137. t This point will be discussed again.