740 HERNIA. that the neck shall be so contracted that in the new occurrence of hernia an additional portion of peritoneum may be detruded, and then the sac must present the shape of an hour-glass, narrow in the centre and broad at either end : sometimes two, three, or more of these succes- sive protrusions take place, and then the sac is divided into so many sacculi with incomplete intercepts or partitions between them. Or one portion of peritoneum may be forced within another, so that the intestine is actually in- cluded within a double sac. This last is a curious and very uncommon occurrence. On the other hand the neck of a hernial sac may suffer distension. In very old ruptures that have become irreducible or from any other cause been long down, the neck of the sac sometimes becomes wonderfully dilated, and the portion of intestine immediately passing through it scarcely subjected to the slightest pressure. There is one form of hernia, the chief peculiarity of which lies in the nature of its peritoneal investment, for,correctly speaking, it possesses no proper sac. It is the hernia con- genita,* a species of rupture which occurs in very young infants, and sometimes, under peculiar circumstances, in persons of a more advanced age also. During the early periods of foetal existence the testes do not occupy that situation which they possess in after life. They are placed ■within the abdomen, above the pelvis, which at this time is so small and imperfectly developed that many of the viscera lodged within it after- wards, seem now to lie within the belly. They are just below the kidneys, in front of the psoas muscle at each side, and possess, like other viscera, an investiture of peritoneum, which is afterwards to be the tunica vaginalis testis. About the sixth month, or perhaps the seventh or even later, (for it observes no exact rule in this respect,) the testis begins to descend, not gliding behind theperitoneum,but preservingits own investing coat until it comes to the internal abdominal ring, where it pushes a process of peritoneum out before it, just as an intestine would do in the production of a hernial sac. This is afterwards to become the tunica vaginalis scroti. The testicle then passes on through the inguinal canal, through the external ring,f and finally drops into the scrotum. After some time the canal of communication with the cavity of the abdomen begins to contract and close, and if the usual process goes on healthily and without interruption, very shortly a complete obliteration takes place, and the testis is sepa- rated from the abdomen perfectly and for ever. The time at which this is accomplished is ex- tremely uncertain : sometimes it is perfect at birth ; in other cases the canal is more or less open, and then, if the infant cries or struggles, a portion of the contents of the abdomen is protruded into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, * Hunter's Animal (Economy. + Sec some observations on the descent of the testicle by the late Professor Todd, of Dublin, in the 1st vol. Dublin Hospital Reports. See also Hey's Observations in Surgery, p. 226. and the hernia congenita is formed. If any part of the above-mentioned process is interrupted or postponed, it will occasion some variety. Thus the tunica vaginalis may not exhibit its usual disposition to close and become obliter- ated at its neck, and then for a length of time the patient is exposed to all the inconvenience and hazard of the descent of a hernia: sometimes the testicle does not come down until a much later period, a circumstance that is often occa- sioned by the gland contracting adhesions with some adjacent viscus in its passage, and may be attended with the additional inconvenience of drawing down such viscus along with it. The surgeon should also be aware of the possibility of the protrusion of another portion of perito- neum into the open tunica vaginalis, and thus a mixed case may arise of a congenital containing within it a proper sacculated hernia. The congenital rupture, then, has no proper sac, but is lodged within the tunica vaginalis in close apposition with the testis : hence many of its peculiarities can be explained. It is obviously the only kind of hernia in which an adhesion can exist between the testicle and the protruded viscus, and it is also evident that the testis does not bear the same relation to the protruded viscus in this that it does in cases of ordinary rupture. Here it is higher up, and seems to be more mixed and identified with the other contents; the entire tumour is more even and firm, the protruded parts are less easily felt and distinguished; and Hesselbach states that when strangulation is present, the sac is every where equally tense, and the testis cannot be felt at all. In very young infants a small quantity of fluid is often present along with the intestine in the tunica vaginalis: it disappears when the child is placed in the recumbent posi- tion, and does not add to the difficulty or im- portance of the case. It has been stated that the tunica vaginalis has a natural tendency to become closed at its neck, and therefore is it more likely to thicken and diminish in capacity in this situation so as to form a band round the protruded viscus. Pott* was of opinion that congenital hernia was more subject to be con- stricted at the neck of the sac than any other: Wilmer stated that out of five cases of congen- ital hernia on which he operated, three were strangulated at the neck of the sac; and Sandi- fort and others maintained the same doctrine. Scarpaf thought that every displaced portion of peritoneum possessed the same tendency to contraction, and advanced it as a reason why stricture in the neck of a hernial sac should be more frequent in all kinds of hernia than is generally supposed. It is not easy to place implicit reliance on this latter opinion, because the neck of the common hernial sac when once formed is never again completely closed ; but with respect to congenital hernia the observa- tion appears to be equally correct and im- portant. Scarpa} describes a form of hernia which may * Pott, op. citat. p. 184. t Page 131. $ Op. citat. p. 205 et seq.