537 ORGAN OF HEARING. osseous labyrinth is contained an extremely delicate and complicated membiano - ner- vous apparatus, called membraneous laby- rinth, first properly described by Scarpa.* It does not extend into all the compartments of the osseous labyrinth, but only occupies the vestibule and semicircular canals. The coch- lea, as has been said, contains in its cavity nothing but perilymph. The vestibular part of the membraneous labyrinth, and of that perhaps one of the pouches only, is all that is really fundamental in the structure of an organ of hearing. In the Crustacea and Cephalopodous Mollusca in which the organ of hearing exists in its sim- plest form, and even in the Cyclostomatous fishes there is nothing but a small pouch con- taining a little liquid and a lapilliform body. Much smaller than the cavities which con- tain it, the membraneous labyrinth is sus- pended as it were in the perilymph. It does not appear to adhere to the walls of the laby- rinthic cavity except at the points where it re- ceives nervous filaments. The component parts of the membraneous labyrinth are:— 1. The common sinus. 2. The membrane- ous ampullae and semicircular tubes. 3. The saccule. Fig. 238. A magnified representation of the left osseous laby- rinth laid open to show the membraneous labyrinth in its situation. ( From Breschet.) a. membraneous ampulla of the ampullary sinus of tlie anterior semicircular canal; b. membrane- ous ampulla of the ampullary sinus of the external semicircular canal; c. membraneous ampulla of the ampullary sinus of the posterior semicircular canal; d. anterior memhraneous semicircular tube; e. external membraneous semicircular tube; f. posterior membraneous semicircular tube : g. coin- * De auditu ct olfactu. mon membraneous tube resulting from the junction of the tubes d and f; h. the place where the ex- ternal membraneous semicircular tube opens into the common sinus ; i i. common sinus filling a great part of the vestibule ; k. a small mass of calcareous powder shining through its walls ; I I. saccule, also containing, m. another mass of cal- careous powder ; n a nervous fasciculus, furnishing, 0. an expansion to the anterior membraneous am- pulla ; p. another to the ampulla of the external tube, and q. a third to the common sinus ; r. ner- vous fasciculus to the saccule ; another fasciculus of nervous filaments, not letteted, is seen going to the ampulla of the posterior membraneous semi- circular tube ; s s. spiral lamina ; s. the termin- ation of the spiral lamina in the hamulus ; t. com- mencement of the scala tympani near the fenestra rotunda, which is here no longer seen ; u. com- mencement of the scala vestibuli ; x. extremity of the axis around which the termination of the spiral lamina turns ; y y. a bristle engaged in the heli- cotrema ; x. place where the summit of the axis is continued into the wall of the osseous labyrinth ; www, membraneous portion of the spiral lamina, particularly broad in the last turn, (lettered u u u in the figure instead of w w w) ; ***** * spaces between the walls of the labyrinthic cavity and membraneous labyrinth occupied by the peri- lymph. Fig. 239. The left membraneous labyrinth isolated together with the nerves. Magnified. ( From Breschet. J a. ampulla of the anterior semicircular tube ; b. ampulla of the horizontal semicircular tube ; c. ampulla of the posterior semicircular tube ; d. common tube ; e. mass of calcareous particles lying in the common sinus; f. the saccule con- taining also a mass of calcareous particles; k. portio dura of the seventh pair; m. nervous fila- ments to the ampulla of the anterior semicircular tube ; n. filaments to the ampulla of the hori- zontal semicircular tube; filaments are also seen going to the ampulla of the posterior semicircular tube, not lettered ; o. filaments to the common sinus; q. filaments to the saccule; r. cochlear nerve. The common sinus, membraneous ampulla, and membraneous semicircular tubes.— These constitute but one apparatus which is just the counterpart of the vestibule, ampullary sinuses, and semicircular canals of the osseous laby- rinth; the semicircular tubes opening into the ampullae and common sinus in the same way