792 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. place in this part of the cavity, as thickened periosteum supported the bone, while the ulce- rative absorption was so active in the interior of this cavity, removing the bone, osseous spiculae or stalactiform growths, such as we are familiar with as being produced around scro- .i'ulous joints, had been deposited around the entire circumference of the acetabulum ; some of these had much narrowed the usual extent of the obturator foramen, at that point where matter had passed from the joint into the inte- rior of the pelvis. The bones have been mace- rated and preserved in the Richmond School Museum, and verify many of the statements made relative to this very singular case. What influence the communication between the cavity of the abscess and the interior of the vena cava had in producing the fatal result in this case, we do not feel ourselves called upon to determine, nor is this the place to dwell on this obscure subject. The usual phenomena of apparent elongation at first and real shortening of the limb afterwards, either did not exist or were so trifling as not to be appreciated in this case, and the disease ran its course rapidly to a fatal termination, the head of the bone remain- ing in its normal position in the acetabulum. It was probably from having witnessed such cases as the foregoing that that experienced surgeon, Boyer, was induced to make the fol- lowing remark :—•" On a observe un variete de la carie qui n'attaque que le fond de la cavite cotyloide; de sorte que ce fond seulement est detruit, tandis que ces bords restent intacts ; alors la matiere purulente de mauvaise qualite, qui la remplit, se porte jusque dans le bassin, ou elle forme un foyer plus ou moins conside- rable ; dans ce cas, la maladie fait perir le • sujet, sans deplacement du femur." We will adduce but one example more of the acute arthritis coxas, with the post-mortem examination. •-*:" !-j y"!J7->"J^*«~ Alexander Clarke, ret. 17, on admission into the Richmond Hospital, it was observed that there was much swelling about the hip-joint; the integuments over it were tense and shining, t ie glands in the groin were swollen and very tender; he suffered from pain, shooting to the knee and spasmodic startings, which awoke him at night; he could not permit the slightest motion of the limb, which was shortened one inch and a quarter; it was habitually inverted and flexed on the trunk ; the constitutional dis- turbance was considerable. From the treat- ment adopted he derived benefit, and a partial recovery resulted. He left the hospital, but soon returned, in consequence of an aggravation of all the former symptoms, caused by a fall on the diseased hip. A deep abscess formed in the groin and extended under Poupart's liga- ment; hectic symptoms showed themselves. There were alternate diarrhoea and attacks of vomiting. The abscess in the iliac fossa in- creased, the tumefaction around the joint dimi- nished, the shortening and inversion of the limb became greater, and oedema of the foot and leg occurred ; he now became suddenly insensible; his left arm was totally paralyzed, while the right was convulsed and constantly in motion ; his face too was distorted by twitchings, and he passed his discharges involuntarily ; he lay thus for several days and died, being in all eighty days ill. Post-mortem examination.—Upon cutting down to the hip-joint the capsular ligament was found to have been extensively removed ante- riorly; posteriorly and laterally it was not ulce- rated, but seemed to have been greatly length- ened and widened ; the synovial membrane was lined with a yellowish-green membrane, just like what we see investing the interior of the sac of an old chronic abscess ; the ligamen- tum teres and cartilage, which invested the head of the bone, had been removed, the bones were rough, unusually red and vascular, and were coated with yellowish-green lymph; the acetabulum was much enlarged, and the head of the bone was drawn to the upper and outer part. The left iliac fossa was entirely filled by an immense abscess, lying between the muscle and bone, passing down under Poupart's liga-' ment as far as the lesser trochanter. The iliac vessels and the anterior crural nerve were pushed forwards ; half an inch below Poupart's ligament a process of the abscess had passed outwards and backwards, which communicated with the hip-joint, and having the muscles pos- terior to the joint, which were thinned and matted together, to form its wall in that direc- tion. In the brain purulent matter was found on the arachnoid surface as well as between the several convolutions of the right hemisphere. The neighbouring portion of the brain was softened and vascular; there was no effusion into the arachnoid sac or into the ventricles.* Sometimes the acute arthritis coxa is an essential disease, and the only one present at the time in the constitution, being simple and confined to the one articulation, as in the case of Reddy before quoted. Sometimes, however, the acute inflammation of the hip-joint is a symptom of another disease. In acute rheu- matic fever the hip-joint is, in its turn', some- times severely visited. Finally, the cases yet published of acute periostitis and synovitis combined, and of acute puerperal rheumatism, in which the hip-joint became implicated, need not be discussed here. We are of opinion that such cases should be looked upon as true spe- cimens of that almost intractable disease called diffuse inflammation. Anatomical characters.—FYom the post-mor- tem examinations of cases of acute arthritis coxae which have been hitherto made, we can collect that all the structures around the joint are in a state of active vascular congestion. The synovial membrane and subsynovial struc- ture present the ordinary characters of active congestion and the results of acute inflamma- tion. Sometimes there is an increased secretion of synovial fluid, and sometimes, in its stead, purulent matter distends the articulation. The synovial membrane, where it is reflected over the neck of the femur, has been found de- * See Dublin Journal, vol. iii. and iv„ also pre- paration in the Richmond Hospital Museum, which the writer has recently inspected.