ORGANS OF GENERATION. 421 which unite intimately along the upper aspect of the organ, but leave inferiorly a deep fissure which is continued to the extremity. In the Chelonia this organ of excitement is very large, and terminates in a single point, but in many Saurian and Ophidian species its extremity is bifid, each division being covered with sharp and recurved spines, an arrangement which, in creatures so deficient in organs of prehension, is evidently adapted to ensure efficient copu- lation. In the females of these reptiles the structure of the ovaria is interesting, gradually leading us from the folds of vascular membrane, between which the numerous eggs of the Batrachia are generated, to the form which they present in Birds. Each ovary assumes a racemose ap- pearance, and consists of a number of ova in various states of perfection, which are loosely attached to the sides of the vertebral column by folds of peritoneum. Their structure, however, is essentially that which has been already de- scribed, and the ova, when matured between the vascular lamina; of the ovarian investments, escape, as in frogs, from the surface of these viscera by a laceration of the investing mem- brane, and would break loose into the abdo- minal cavity did not the more perfect develope- ment of the oviducts, which here have their patulous extremities so disposed that they can grasp the ovaria during excitement, prevent such an occurrence, by receiving the germs imme- diately from the ruptured ovary. The oviducts are two in number, membranous at first, but glandular as they approach their termination in the cloaca. In these the eggs receive an albuminous investment which they absorb in the first portion of the canal, and prior to their expulsion are furnished with a coriaceous or cal- careous covering produced from the thicker portion of the oviferous tube. The females of the Cliclonia have a clitoris, or rudiment of the male penis, which is in a similar manner provided with muscles for its retraction into the cloaca after extrusion. In other Reptiles the clitoris is deficient. Birds form a remarkable exception to the usual arrangement of the internal sexual organs in oviparous vertebrate.,the ovarium and oviduct being single throughout the class, an organi- zation which is evidently in relation with that lightness and activity essential to their habits. This deviation from the usual type, however, is only apparent, arising from the non-develop- ment of the ovary and its duct on one side of the body, although both exist in a rudimentary state. The ovarium, as in Reptiles, is racemose, consisting of ova in different stages of growth, each enclosed in a vascular membrane, which forms a pedicle attaching it to the general cluster, and is ruptured by the escape of the germ enclosed within it. The oviduct is short in comparison with that of many reptiles, and the structure of its lining membrane indicates the offices performed by different portions of the canal, being smooth and vascular in its upper portion, where the yolk receives its albuminous covering, but becoming villous and plicated where it secretes the shell. Male birds, like reptiles, are furnished with two testes, which, from their comparatively in- significant size, do not materially interfere with the bulk of the viscera; yet even these only as- sume their full proportions at stated times, namely, at that period of the year when their office is required. The testes are constantly situated in the ab- dominal cavity immediately behind the lungs and under the anterior extremity of the kidney : as in all cases, they consist of sperm-secreting tubes, but of such extreme tenuity that their diameter was estimated by Muller as not greater than the 0 00528 of a Parisian inch. These canals are enclosed in a proper capsule, which sends septa into the interior of the organ; they unite to form a slightly flexuous vas defe- rens, which accompanies the ureter of the cor- responding side. The vasa deferentia termi- nate by separate orifices in the cloacal cavity near the root of the rudimentary penis when such exists, but even in its most perfect forms the male organ is merely an instrument serv- ing for the conveyance of the seminal liquor along a groove seen upon its surface, there being as yet no corpus spongiosum or inclosed urethra as in the Mammiferous classes, adapted to an efficient injection of the semen into the female parts, nor any auxiliary secretions sub- servient to the same purpose. In the females of those genera in which the penis is most de- veloped, a clitoris is found to occupy a similar position. The Mammalia differ remarkably from the other vertebrate classes in the elaborate deve- lopement of the sexual organs in both sexes. The increased complication of these parts is attri- butable in the male to the necessity for a much more efficient intromission of the spermatic secretions during coitus, and in the female to the superadded function of gestation which characterizes the class. On comparing the male organs of Mammi- fera with those of the oviparous vertebrata, several circumstances demand our notice, the most striking of which is the separation of the canals provided for excretion into two distinct systems, each terminating externally by an appropriate orifice, thus detaching entirely the digestive emunctory from the genito-urinary apparatus, which hitherto we have found to dis- charge themselves by one common orifice com- municating with a cloacal cavity. With one interesting exception furnished by the Mono- tremata, such a separation exists throughout all the Mammiferous orders. Internally a still further isolation is evident in the separation of the urinary and generative organs by the pro- vision of a urinary bladder, in which the secre- tion of the kidneys is stored up until its expul- sion becomes necessary ; the same excretory canal, however, is still common to both these systems. In the ovipara the penis was merely furrowed with a sulcus, along which the semen trickled during the union of the sexes without being impelled by any expulsive apparatus ; but in the class of which we are now speaking the urethral canal becomes surrounded by vas- cular erectile tissue, forming a complete tube through which the seminal liquor is powerfully