21 DIGESTION. hypotheses and conjectures have been formed on the subject, there is none which seems to have obtained any credit with physiologists, or indeed to be entitled to much consideration.* The latest researches on the subject are those of Home, and of Tiedemann and Gmelin. Home examined the structure of the spleen, and, as the result of his investigation, informs us that it consists entirely of a congeries of bloodvessels and absorbents, and that there are interstices between the vessels into which the blood is effused, through certain natural orifices in the veins, when they are much distended. The conclusion which* he forms respecting the use of the spleen is, that it is a reservoir for any super- fluous matter, which may exist in the stomach, after the process of digestion is completed, which is not carried off by the intestines, as serum, lymph, globules,and mucus; that these are conveyed to the spleen by certain communi- cating vessels, and are removed from it, partly by the veins and partly by the absorbents.f The account of the structure of the spleen which is given us by Tiedemann and Gmelin is considerably different from that of Home. They inform us that it essentially resembles that of the lymphatic glands, and they conceive that it is to be regarded as an appendage to the lymphatic system. They suppose its specific function to be the secretion of a fluid which is conveyed to the thoracic duct, and being united with the chyle, converts it into blood.\ There are many circumstances which render it pro- bable that the spleen, in some way or other, promotes sanguification, and we have some reason to believe, that there is an immediate and a ready communication between its arterial and its absorbent systems, but we conceive that the hypothesis must still be regarded rather as a plausible conjecture, than as a deduction from facts. There is moreover a circumstance which must not be overlooked in our speculations respecting the spleen, that we have some well authenticated cases, where it has been either originally wanting, or has been removed from the body without apparent injury.§ This argu- ment cannot, however, be considered as decisive, because it is well known, that in consequence of the extraordinary compensating powers of the system, certain organs may be occasionally dis- pensed with, which, under ordinary circumstan- * See Haller, El, Phys. lib. xxi. ; Soemmering, t. vi. p. 149 et seq. t Phil. Trans, for 1808, p. 45 et seq. and p. 133 et seq., and for 1821, p. 35 et seq. pi. 3..8. \ We have an ample and apparently correct ab- stract of the memoir of Tiedemann and Gmelin in the Ed. Med. Jonrn v. xviii. p. 285 et seq. See also on this subject Elliotson's Physiol, p. 108 et seq.; also an essay by Dr. Hodgkin, appended to his translation of Edwards's physiological work. $ Baillic's Morbid Anat., p. 260, 1 ; works, by Wardrop, v. ii. p. 235. [Dupuytren observed an in- creased voracity in dogs from which the spleen had been removed.—Assolant, Dissertation du Rate ; and Mayo has in two instances remarked a considerable obesity in dogs after the removal of the spleen, but does not say whether this may not be attribu- table to the increase in the quantity of their food. In both instances the duration of the obesity was for less than a year. Mayo's Pathol, vol. i.—Ed.] ces, appear the most essential to its existence and welfare. We may therefore conclude with respect to the pancreas and the spleen, that although there is reason to suppose that they contribute, in some way, to the function of di- gestion, we are still unable to ascertain the pre- cise mode in which they conduce to this end. Before we dismiss this part of our subject, it will be necessary to make a few observations upon a question, which has been proposed in relation to the digestive process, whether any part of the aliment passes through the stomach, and is taken up by the absorbents, without de- composition. It is obvious that this cannot be the case with vegetable substances of any des- cription, and with respect to substances of ani- mal origin, that form a part of the diet, although they approach so much nearer to the nature of chyle, yet it appears that they are not entirely identical with it, and that they must conse- quently be decomposed and assimilated to the general mass, before they can serve for the pur- poses of nutrition. There are indeed certain substances, that are received into the stomach, which would appear to form exceptions to this general principle; these are the various saline substances, which are found in all organized bodies, as well as some others, which give their appropriate odours and flavours to the food, and also certain medical agents. There are some salts, which appear to constitute an essential part of the blood and other animal fluids, and as the same salts are introduced into the sto- mach with the food, we may conceive that they pass unchanged into the vessels. There are likewise certain substances which give their specific odour to the milk, and to other secre- tions and excretions, proving that they likewise pass into the circulating system without suffer- ing decomposition, and the same is the case with some of the medicaments.* IV. Theory of digestion.—We now enter upon the fourth branch of our inquiry, the mode in which we are to explain the action of the di- gestive organs upon the aliment. This has been one of the most fertile sources of conjecture and speculation from the earliest period, from Hip- pocrates down to our own times, and the ques- tion is one respecting which the greatest differ- ence of opinion still exists among the most intelligent physiologists f We shall not think it necessary to notice the opinions of the older writers, which were necessarily formed from very insufficient data, but shall select those hy- potheses which appear deserving of more par- ticular attention, either as having been supported by men of acknowledged eminence, or as * See the remarks of Fordycc, p. 122, 3 ; the results of the experiments that have been made on this point are somewhat contradictory ; but upon the vvhole there seems no doubt that, under certain circumstances, various extraneous substances may be taken up by the absorbents and recognized in the Mood and other fluids. See Uostock's Physiol, v. ii. p. 569, 0, note. t For an account of the doctrines maintained by the earlier physiologists, the reader is referred to the treatise of Fernel, De Concoctionibus, Physiot. lib. vi. cap. 6 ; Doerhaave, Praelect. not. ad j 86 ; llaller, El. Phys. xix. 4 et 5 passim; and lilu- menbach, Instit. Physiol. $360.