274 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. apparently contrary to analogy ; they are dis- tinguishable into anterior and posterior, but they descend, the anterior to the posterior, and the posterior to the anterior columns. The an- terior cord is by much the larger, and is pro- longed through the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum, until at the inferior extremity of the bulb it is continued into the longitudinal fasciculi of the corresponding posterior column of the spinal marrow; it is situate along the outer side of the olivary body, but separated from it by a slight interval, nor does it seem to have any connection with that body : it is imbedded in the substance of the superior part of the peduncle, situate, however, nearer to its anterior than its posterior surface, and laid obliquely across its fibres as they pass outward toward the hemisphere of the cerebellum ; but as it proceeds it becomes gradually more super- ficial, gains the outer side of the peduncle, and at the lower extremity of the bulb is actually at its surface almost immediately behind the lateral fissure of the cord and the posterior roots of the superior cervical nerves. The existence and course of this cord have been first established and described by Rolando in his " Saggio sopra la vera Struttura del Cervello," and also in a memoir upon the Anatomy of the Medulla oblongata, published in the fourth volume of the Journal of Physiology. The posterior cord is much smaller than the former ; it descends behind the inferior pedun- cle of the cerebellum, as it passes outward into the hemisphere, and upon the posterior aspect of the spinal bulb; enters the posterior fissure of the bulb, between the posterior py- ramids, and can be traced some way down- ward, in the bottom of the fissure, along the back of the anterior column of the same side, into which it appears to be ultimately con- tinued. (Figs. 140, 141, 13.) The preceding account of the encephalic connections of the fifth nerve differs very much from that adopted by some of the highest modern authorities. It is not necessary to allude to the opinions entertained upon the point, before the course of the nerve had ieen particularly inquired into; but, accord- ing to some of the most recent, the nerve arises from the groove between the restiform and olivary bodies, and from the olivary bodies themselves. Such is the view given of the origin of .the nerve by Gall and Spurzheim in their fifth plate of the brain, in which the nerve is represented breaking up, on the out- side of the olivary body, into several fasciculi, which plunge obliquely into it. In their account* of the course of the nerve into the brain they state, " on peut aisement suivre son cours entier jusq'au dessous du cote exterieur des corps olivaires ;" this might be, perhaps, interpreted to mean beyond the ulivuries, reference being had to the relations of those bodies in the erect posture; but from the representation given it is obvious that the in- tended meaning is, that the nerve can be fol- 1 Anatomie et Physiologie du Systerae Ner- vciix, loin. i. p. 107. lowed to beneath, i. e. underneath, their outer side, the brain being placed in the manner ordinarily adopted for dissection, in which the anterior aspect of the olivaries is rendered superior; indeed their representation is alto- gether incompatible with the opinion that they had traced the nerve beyond the bodies. Such al so is the opinion of J. F. Meckel,* according to whom the nerve " passes under the posterior peduncle of the cerebellum, along the outer side of the pons, toward the groove between the olivary and restiform bo- dies, where it arises in part from the groove and in part from the olivary eminences." Cloquetf likewise states the nerve to arise between the olivary and restiform bodies, and has adopted and copied, in his late work,} the view given of its origin by Call and Spurz- heim. Further, the discovery of this origin of the nerve has been attributed by Meckel§ and others to Santorini. It is a hardy thing to contradict such au- thorities as have been quoted, and the influence which they justly carry with them has made the author hesitate before adopting a contrary opinion ; but if reference be made to the work|j of Santorini on the point, it will be found that he nowhere, in his account of the origin of the nerve, assigns the groove between the restiform and olivary bodies as its situation in the spinal bulb, as will appear from the following extract, the only paragraph of his account in which he particularizes it, and in which he supposes it to be situate between the olivary and pyramidal bodies: " Unde in interiorem medullas, ob- longata? caudicem conjectus, fere inter olivaria et pyramidalia corpora locatus, quo demum pergat, cum tenuium fibrarum implexus, turn earumdem mollitudo, ne consequerer, omnino prohibuere ;" from which it is plain, as has been stated, that he supposed the nerve to be between the two latter bodies; and also that he had not been able to trace it to any particular destination, although, in a succeeding para- graph, he conjectures the olivary body to be its source: hence there is reason to conclude that succeeding anatomists have assumed his conjecture to be an established fact, and have modelled their accounts and representations accordingly. Moreover, since the olivary bodies .do not exist in the lower classes of animals, it is not likely that they should be points of origin or attachment for nerves; in fine, the author has so uniformly succeeded in tracing the nerve to the destination which has been described, that he is satisfied of the accuracy of it, in which he is confirmed by the fact that the account here given accords with the opinions of Santorini, Scemmerring, and Rolando, so far as that of the first has been determined to be accurate, or as those of the others extend : the particulars in which it differs from, or rather in which it goes beyond these, rest upon the author's authority and remain to be confirmed, * Manuel d'Anatoinie, French edit, f Traite d'Anatomie descriptive. X Anatomie de l'Homme. S,Seenote5, p. 82, op. cit. vol. ii. | Observatioiies Anatomies.