ARTERIA INNOMINATA. 852 of sight, &c. Where the tumor extends to- wards the right side it presses upon the right brachio-cephalic vein, preventing the return of blood from the right arm and side of the head and neck; if upwards in that direction the carotid and subclavian arteries become im- plicated, and consequent interruption to the circulation ensues;. if forwards, the passage of blood is stopped through the left brachio- cephalic vein and the inferior thyroid venous plexus; if to- the left, 'it encroaches upon the left carotid artery and trachea, whilst by en- larging backwards it acts immediately upon the trachea and mediately upon the oesophagus. Although the above facts are interesting, as serving to elucidate the various phenomena occurring in this malady, I fear that we must not attach too much importance to them as means of diagnosis, inasmuch as many, if not all, of the above symptoms may result from enlargement of other vessels and other causes, indeed we have only to turn to the admirable work of Mr. Allan Burns on the Surgical Ana- tomy of the Head and Neck, to be at once aware of the probability of deception in this respect. Anom'alies.—There are perhaps few arteries in the body which present so many varieties and anomalies as the innominata, whether stu- died with respect to its extent, course, situ- ation, or the number of brandies which it gives off. In the first place, it is frequently met with extending up into the neck as high as the thyroid cartilage before it divides into its ultimate branches, and sometimes lying in front of the trachea. It is scarcely necessary to remark in how great a degree this anomaly increases the difficulties and dangers attending the operation of tracheotomy. Secondly, the most remarkable variety occurring in the course of this artery is described by M. Velpeau, who, in his El^mens de Mcdecine Operatoire, men- tions three instances in which it passed to the left side in front of the trachea, and subse- quently wound from before backwards over this organ, returning between the oesophagus and vertebral column, to its usual points of division opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation. Thirdly, the innominata is also occasionally irregular as to situation. It has been found arising from the centre of the trans- verse portion of the arch of the aorta instead of its commencement, and dividing into right and left carotid arteries, the right subclavian taking its origin from the spot usually occupied by the innominata. Again, instead of being placed on the right it has been met with given off from the left or posterior part of the arch dividing into the right and left carotids and left subclavian, in other instances into left sub- clavian and left carotid. Cases are also on record in which the innominata was altogether absent, the right carotid and subclavian arte- ries arising directly from the arch of the aorta. Fourthly, it is frequently anomalous in the number of branches it gives off. Occasionally the left carotid arises from it in addition to its usual branches, sometimes it divides into the two carotids instead of the subclavian and carotid; and Tiedemann mentions an instance where it gave off the right internal mam- mary. The considerations of the functions, size, and situation of the innominata,as well as its relations not only to the heart and aorta but also to the surrounding parts,at all times rendered the study of this vessel a subject of interest and impor- tance in the eyes of the operative surgeon; but it is comparatively of later years since Mr. Allan Burns first directed the attention of the profession to the fact that circulation through this vessel might be suddenly arrested without the functions of the brain, and power of the superior extremity being of necessity de- stroyed, that surgeons have been found bold enough to attempt placing a ligature upon it. There are three cases upon record in which a ligature has been placed upon the trunk of the innominata itself. The first operation was per- formed by Professor Mott, of New York, on the 11th of May, 1818. The patient died on the 26th day after the operation from repeated hemorrhage resulting from ulceration and yield- ing of the vessel. The second was by Professor Graeff on the 5th of March, 1829. The patient died on the sixty-seventh day after the operation from re- peated hemorrhage. The third was by Mr. Lizars at the Edin- burgh Royal Infirmary, on the 31st of May, 1837. The patient died on the twenty-first day after the operation, likewise from hemorrhage. This artery was likewise tied by Mr. Bland on the 25th March, 1832. The patient died on the 13th of April, three weeks after the operation. The following are the steps of the operation. The patient being placed in the horizontal po- sition with the shoulders raised and the head thrown back, make an incision of about two inches upwards along the anterior margin of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle of the right side, commencing at the upper edge of the sternum : from the inferior extremity of this carry another of similar extent outwards upon the right clavicle; these should divide the skin and subcutaneous tissue: next dissect this flap from below upwards and reflect it, exposing the platisma muscle ; cut through this muscle and the superficial fascia beneath it, and then care- fully detach the sternal insertion of the sterno- mastoid muscle and anterior layer of deep fascia, and should there not be sufficient space a portion of the clavicular fibres of the muscle. Having proceeded thus far, cut through the second layer of deep fascia, avoiding the vein already described as crossing this space, and subsequently divide the sterno-hyoid and thy- roid muscles upon a director; this will expose the third layer of deep fascia covering the vessel; a portion of this should be pinched up by forceps and an opening very cautiously made in it, after which, with the handle of a scalpel, clear the artery of its surrounding cel- lular tissue, draw the thyroid veins to the left side, the right pneumo-gastric nerve and in- ternal jugular vein to the right, and pressing the left brachio-cephalic vein downwards, carry the ligature obliquely upwards and inwards, or from the right to the left side, keeping it