FEMORAL ARTERY. 244 ligament upon the inferior part of the abdomen, superficial to the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and enclosed in the subcuta- neous cellular stratum. Its course is irregular, at times nearly parallel* to that of the deep epigastric within the abdominal wall; at others ascending directly upon the abdomen; in ge- neral it pursues the latter course. It is consi- derably smaller than the deep epigastric artery, and is concerned altogether in the supply of superficial parts, and in establishing commu- nications with other vessels. Its first branches are distributed to the inguinal glands and co- verings: during its ascent upon the abdomen it gives to either side branches which supply the superficial structures, and inosculate through the ventral foramina with branches of the inter- nal epigastric from within ; and it terminates by communicating with the same and with those of the internal mammary, and of the inferior intercostals. It is, unless in case of disease, a small vessel, and of consequence only from being exposed to be divided in cer- tain operations, viz. that for inguinal hernia, or that for tying the external iliac artery. 2. The superficial or external pudic arteries (scrotules ou vulvaires, Chauss.) are generally two, distinguished into superficialf and deep, or superior X and inferior: of those distinc- tions the latter seems preferable, inasmuch as they are both equally superficial in their dis- tribution, and the difference between them in this particular amounts to no more than that the second continues longer beneath the fascia lata than the first. They arise in general either directly from the femoral, or from a trunk com- mon to them with the superficial epigastric, with which {hey are of nearly equal size. The superior is given oft' immediately below Poupart's ligament; comes through the fascia lata, and at the same time gives branches to the inguinal glands; runs, superficial to the fascia, inward and also upward toward the pubes; and either divides into two, one of which as- cends above, the other, the more considerable, continues below that part; or, as it proceeds, it gives off small branches which ascend above the pubis, and supply the superficial struc- tures upon the inferior middle part of the ab- dominal wall; while it is itself continued to the scrotum and side of the penis, the coverings of which it supplies; or into the labium in the female. Its branches communicate with those, which the external organs of generation receive also from the internal pudic artery, and with branches of the epigastric arteries. This branch is usually divided in the operations for either inguinal or femoral hernia. The inferior external pudic artery arises from the femoral at a greater distance from Poupart's ligament than the former: at times it is given oft' by the profunda § artery, or from the in- ternal circumflex,||orfrom the superior branch \% at others it is absent.**1 It is situate beneath the * Harrison. + Cloquet. J Harrison. Boyer, Cloquet, Tieilemann. Harrison. Ibid. »• Ibid. fascia lata through a greater extent of its course than the superior; runs inward across the pec- tinalis muscle, covered by the fascia; passes then through the fascia, and pains the scrotum or the labium and the perineum, in which it is distributed, communicating with the inferior branch of the former and with the perineal artery. Its course is at times so far from Pou- part's ligament that it crosses behind the sa- phena vein. Occasionally a third* external pudic artery is present, arising either from the femoral itself, the profunda, or the internal circumflex artery. 3. The superficial anterior iliac artery (ar- teria circumjlexa iiii superficial is, Harrison; external cutaneous, Scarpa; artire musculuire superficielle, Cloquet;) arises from the outer side of the femoral artery, or at times from the profunda :f it runs outward in front of the crural nerve, and after a short course divides into three branches. Its first comes from within the fascia lata and is distributed to the superfi- cial inguinal glands : its second branch also comes through the fascia, runs round the ante- rior and outer side of the thigh, below the spinous process of the ilium, and is distri- buted superficially: and its third runs outward and upward, beneath the fascia lata, toward the superior anterior spinous process of the ilium ; supplies the sartorius and tensor vagina muscles at their origin, and also gives branches to the iliacus interims. This artery communi- cates with branches of the gluteal, the deep anterior iliac, and the external circumflex arteries. 4. The profunda artery (arteria profunda femoris; intermusculaire, Chauss.) is the vessel by which the muscles and other structures of the thigh are for the greater part supplied, whence it may be regarded as in strictness the femoral artery, the trunk of the femoral, in its general acceptation, being distributed to the leg and foot: it is also the channel through which the communications between the femoral artery and the main arteries of the trunk on the one hand, and of the lower part of the limb on the other, are established, and by which, in case of interruption of the first vessel, either below or above the origin of the profunda, the circulation is to be restored : it is therefore an artery of great importance, and also of great size, being nearly equal to, though for the most part somewhat smaller than, the femoral itself, while in manycases it is fully equal to it. Hence, probably, it has received the name profunda femoris, deep femoral artery; and by many the femoral artery is distinguished into the common femoral and the superficial and deep femoruls; the first extending from the entrance of the vessel into the thigh to the origin of the pro- funda ; the second being the vessel from the point last mentioned to that at which it becomes popliteal; and the third the artery which is at present under consideration. The profunda artery for the most part arises from the posterior and outer side of the femoral * Scarpa, Boyer. t Cloquet, Scarpa-