24 DIGESTION. are immediately connected with the external senses. Its functions are excited or depressed by various causes, which can only act through the medium of the mind or imagination; while it is argued that in all cases its various condi- tions and the changes which its functions expe- rience can be referred to no cause, except to corresponding changes in the nervous system.* This hypothesis, like that of the vital prin- ciple, has been supported by the consideration of the inadequacy of all the other modes of explaining the phenomena, and the impossi- bility of referring them either to mechanical or to chemical principles. But it has this clear and decided advantage, that it rests upon the co-operation of an actual agent of great and acknowledged power, one the existence of which is universally recognized, the only ques- tion being whether it is applicable to this indi- vidual case. But although we admit the facts in their full force, we must still demur to the conclusions that must be deduced from them. If we inquire upon what principle, or by what medium the nervous system can operate on the digestive functions, two modes present them- selves to the mind. We may ascribe the effect either to the general operation of the nervous energy, whatever this may be, which pervades every part of the system, and the stomach among the rest, and which gives it those powers which distinguish living from dead matter; or we may conceive that the ner- vous system is, in some way, more especially concerned in the production of the gastric juice, and that consequently whatever tends to decrease or diminish the nervous energy, may operate in the increased or diminished produc- tion of this secretion, and thus indirectly, al- though necessarily, affect the digestive func- tion. But although we may admit the truth of both these suppositions, we gain no specific answer to our inquiry. It is not enough to be informed that the stomach acts upon its con- tents because it is alive, or that whatever pre- vents the secretion of the gastric juice puts a stop to the digestion. Our inquiry embraces a farther object, and leads us to investigate die nature of the connexion between these facts and the ultimate effect produced, or to discover the reason why certain acknowledged effects are connected with certain acknowledged causes; but to this question the nervous hypothesis gives us no satisfactory answer. It indeed rather involves the theory of secretion than of digestion, for even were it to be clearly proved that the nervous power (whether, according to the hypothesis of Dr. Philip, we identify it with the galvanic influence, or we act the more cautious part of not attempting to explain its nature,) is the immediate agent in the forma- tion of the secretions, still we are left equally * It was on facts of this description that Vanhel- mont founded his hypothesis of the stomach being the immediate seat of the soul ; Orlus Med. p. 248, 49, 50. See also on the same subject the remarks of Hartley, on Man, v. i. p. 189, and Soemmering, ยง 179...4, who may be respectively considered as among the most accurate metaphysi- cians and anatomists of modern times. uninformed concerning the mode in which this fluid, when secreted, performs its appropriate function.* From this brief review of the different the- ories of digestion we may conclude, that the hypothesis of trituration is decidedly incorrect, and that those of the vital principle and the nervous energy do not resolve the question. We are therefore reduced to the two chemical hypotheses, which, although not without con- siderable difficulties, are not so palpably defec- tive or erroneous. In deciding between these two hypotheses it must be our first object to ascertain the exact sense in which the term fermentation was used by the older physio- logists, and how far, according to the modern use of the term, it is applicable to the phe- nomena in question. The word was originally employed in a very extensive, and, as may be supposed, in a somewhat vague manner, to designate every spontaneous change which took place between bodies that were placed in con- tact, and which generally manifested itself by the extrication of some gaseous or volatile matter. Thus all the spontaneous changes in the body, whether natural or morbid, were considered to be different kinds of fermen- tations, and many of the changes that take place among inorganic substances, as well as various processes in the laboratory, were dis- tinguished by the same appellation. As our knowledge of the nature of these processes was extended, and we were thus enabled to ascertain more correctly what was the change which was produced, our language became more correct and better defined, and the term fermentation was restricted to a spe- cific operation, in which certain proximate principles, derived from organized bodies,! act upon each other, and enter into new elementary combinations. The process is generally pro- moted by the addition of a substance called the ferment, which is employed to enable the bodies to act upon each in the first instance, although, when the action has commenced, its presence may be no longer necessary. The most familiar kind of fermentation is that by which a mixture of sugar and mucilage is con- verted into alcohol, and that by which the same substances, when exposed to the atmos- phere, and to a certain temperature, are con- verted into acetous acid. How far we are to extend the number of fermentations is a point respecting which chemists are not agreed, and indeed there appears to be no reason but that of convenience which can decide the point. We accordingly find that while Mr. Brande is disposed to restrict the term to the vinous and acetous fermentation,^ others extend it to three, four, or with Dumas,ยง even to six processes. * We may refer our readers to the judicious re- marks of Dr. Prichard, in his Essay on the Vital Prin. sect. 8. t Some of the most eminent chemists confine the process of fermentation to the proximate principles derived from vegetables ; but this restriction is Dot universally adopted, nor does it appear to be neces- sary. i Utsupra. ยง Ut supra.