ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 799 matic arthritis of the hip-joint produced by cold, we can easily conceive may occasionally merge into the chronic affection we wish to describe. We have also reason to think that falls upon the great trochanter have given rise to the first symptoms of this disease; but in many cases no satisfactory cause can be assigned by the patient for the origin of the affection. Symptoms, 4'C-—The patient complains of stiffness in the hip-joint and about the great trochanter; also of a dull boring pain which extends down the front of the thigh to the knee. The stiffness is most felt in the morning when the patient commences to walk ; but after exercise the movements of the joint be- come somewhat more free. In the evening of a day the patient has had much walking exercise, the pain is always more severe. The uneasiness, however, gradually subsides after he has retired to bed. The pain is always in- creased when the patient throws the weight of his body fully on the affected joint. But let the surgeon press on the great trochanter, or adopt any other expedient so as to push the head of the bone even rudely against the ace- tabulum, and these manoeuvres are the sources of no uneasiness whatever to the patient. Al- though we can easily satisfy ourselves that no actual anchylosis exists, still it is evident enough that the motion of rotation is lost, and that the other movements, particularly flexion, are confined within very narrow limits. When we place the patient in a horizontal position, and endeavour to communicate any of these movements to the hip-joint, the patient com- plains of pain, and an evident crepitation can be heard and felt deep in the articulation. The limb is apparently shortened by from two to three inches ; the apparent shortening arises from the obliquity of position of the pelvis relatively to the spine, and the elevation of the affected side is such that the crest of the ilium and the last short rib approach nearer to each other at this side in the ordinary attitude of standing by two inches than those of the opposite side. All these circumstances account for the apparent shortening of the limb, which however, on accurate measurement, will be found not to be really shortened more than an inch. The patient walks very lame, and with the foot and whole limb greatly everted. The nates of the sound side is unusually prominent, while that of the affected side is quite flat, and no trace of the lower fold of the glutauis is seen. The mus- cles of the thigh also seem somewhat atrophied, still they do not want for firmness; and we may uniformly observe that the calf of the leg of the affected limb is not inferior in size and firmness to the other. When we minutely examine the great trochanter, we find it larger and more prominent than usual; and about the situation of the acetabulum, horizontal branch of the os pubis, and lesser trochanter, bony pro- tuberances can, upon careful examination, be recognized. This disease, when once fully esta- blished in the hip-joint, rarely or never extends itself to the other articulations. We have known, however, a few examples in which it affected both hip-joints in the same individual. The chronic inflammation of the various struc- tures of the joint in which the disease consists, is never accompanied by any appreciable de- gree of heat or external swelling of the soft parts, and we have never heard of the inflam- mation going on to suppuration. The following case will shew the necessity of making the profession fully acquainted with this disease, as it proves how very obscure are the early signs of the affection, and that even the morbid appearances may be confounded with those which are the result of accident. At the meeting of the British Association in Dublin, in the year 1836, one of its most dis- tinguished members, Mr. Snow Harris of Ply- mouth, made the following communication to the medical section :—" Sir A. Cooper and many other eminent surgeons had doubted the possibility of union taking place in fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, within the capsular ligament. A case had lately fallen under his (Mr. H.'s) notice, which he thought would tend to set the question at rest. It was that of a gentleman who had received an injury by being thrown from his gig ten years ago. He had got up and walked immediately after the accident, but continued lame from that period up to the time of his death. He had been at- tended by some of the most celebrated surgeons in London, but they had not been able to de- termine whether there was a fracture of the bone or not, but kept him lying on a sofa for nearly twelve months. The injured limb was shortened, the foot everted, the thigh wasted, and owing to the constant inclination of the body forward on one side, a lateral curvature of the spine took place. Some time ago the gentleman died of disease of the heart; and Mr. Harris, being anxious to examine the parts, removed the acetabulum and a portion of the thigh-bone, which he then presented for the inspection of the meeting. He had found the trochanter higher up than natural, and the neck of the bone shortened ; a section of the bone had been made, and the line of union, in Mr. Harris's opinion, was clearly manifest." * When Mr. Harris exhibited this specimen to the medical section of the British Association which met in Dublin, it excited much interest, first as the individual, the subject of the case, was the celebrated comedian Mr. Matthews, and secondly, as at the announcement of the case it was asserted that it settled in the affirmative the much agitated question, whether the intra- capsular fracture of the cervix femoris was or was not susceptible of osseous union. The writer was present at the communication of this case to the section, and upon the presentation of the specimen expressed his doubts that this case, either from its history or post-mortem appearances, was an example of the intra-cap- sular fracture, and rather held the opinion that it was one of this chronic rheumatic affection which he has been endeavouring to describe; in which opinion he was most decidedly con- finned upon inspecting the acetabulum, the widening of this cavity, the complete filling up * Sec Dublin Journal, vol. viii.