EDENTATA. 50 at least in the remains lately described by Mr. Clift, the part joining the sternum, and answer- ing to the cartilages of the ribs, is bony and is connected to the rib itself by a moveable arti- culation. The lumbar vertebra are generally broad and furnished with strong spinous pro- cesses. The transverse processes are incon- siderable in the Sloths, but large in the Edentata proper. In the Armadillos the anterior articu- lar processes are particularly strong and larger even than the spinous. This is the case, but to a less degree, in the Ant-eaters. In the Orycte- ropus there are slight indications of inferior spinous processes on most of the lumbar verte- bra, consisting of a small longitudinal crest. The caudal vertebrae vary excessively in num- ber. In the Unau and Bradypus didactylus they are very few—not more than seven or eight; in the large Ant-eater forty, and in the African Manis forty-five. In the remains of the Megatherium lately deposited in the Mu- seum of the Royal College of Surgeons, the tail would appear, according to Mr. Clift's computation, to consist of eighteen vertebrae at least. The caudal vertebra? of the Edentata proper have inferior spinous processes of a remarkable form, being constituted of two branches meeting inferiorly in the median line. The Megatherium possesses similar V-shaped processes. In the Myrmecophaga didactyla the two branches are not united in the anterior two of them. The sternum offers a considerable developement of themanubriumor anterior bone in the whole of the Edentata, particularly in the Ant-eaters and Armadillos. It is also rather large in the Megatherium. The pelvis in the Edentata proper is much elongated, and the acetabulum rather behind the middle of the whole length of the bones. The ileum, which forms the anterior half of the pel- vis in the Armadillo, is fixed to the sacrum by its posterior portion, a surface of considerable extent. The ischium and pubis are large, the is- chiatic notch wide, and the cavity of the pelvis capacious. In the Sloths and Megatherium the pelvis is of large dimensions, the ilia very broad, especially in the latter; the cavity capa- cious, and the outlet large. The ossa pubis are joined at the symphysis in most of the Eden- tata, as is now ascertained by Mr. Clift, in the Megatherium. In the Myrmecophaga didac- tyla, it is stated by Cuvier to be open. The size of the pelvis in the Megatherium is enormous. On comparison of it with the pelvis of an elephant eleven feet in length, Mr. Clift found that in the former the ilia are 5ft. lin , and in the latter only 3ft. 8in. The anterior extremity.—The principal cha- racteristic of the bones of the arm in the Sloth is their extraordinary length. The humerus is very much elongated and cylindrical, with the elevations but slightly marked. The ulna and radius axe ajso very long, and bowed, so that the bones are distant at the middle of their length ; the radius is very broad anteriorly. The very complete power of pronation and su- pination enjoyed by this animal is no less ob- viously suited to its habits than the great length of its anterior extremities ; both of which peculiarities are admirably subservient to the complicated objects of holding by the boughs, of advancing along their under-surface, and of reaching and bringing to the mouth the leaves on which it feeds ; and the structure of the hand (Jig. 35) is no less suited to the same pur- Pig. 35. Hand of the Sloth. poses. The carpus is as long as it is broad; it is composed of six pieces only, of which four form the first series, and two the second. The os scaphoides is the largest of the whole, and is articulated with the os semilunare by a convex articular surface : the os cuneiforme presents on its ulnar side an oblique flattened surface ; the os pisiforme, which is not named by Cuvier, does however exist, though it is of small size. The inner and larger piece of the anterior series probably consists of the as trapezium, trape- zoideum, and magnum united; and the external one solely of the os unciforme. In the Unau the os trapezoides is distinct. The metacarpal bones, to return to the AY, consist of three per- fect and two rudimentary, the whole of which are united at their base to each other and to the inner solid carpal piece, consisting of the three bones before mentioned; so that in fact the five metacarpal bones, with the os trapezium, tra- pezoideum, and magnum, form one solid osseous piece. The fingers, which are three only, are very long, and consist each of two moveable phalanges only, the first being very small and early anchylosed to the metacarpal bone. In a very young skeleton in my possession, these bones are not yet united. There is but very little flexion between this part and the second phalanx, but between the latter and the third or ungueal phalanx the flexion is complete, the latter being bent down to the palm with perfect ease. These ungueal bones are very long, curved, laterally compressed, large at the base, at which part there is, as in the cats, a bony sheath to cover the base of the claw; and the latter envelopes the phalanx for about five-sixths of its length. The posterior extremity in this remarkable animal offers no less striking peculiarities. The breadth and openness of its pelvis have been already noticed. Fhefemur is articulated to the acetabulum so as to stand obliquely outwards from the pelvis ; it has a short head, and is it- self rather short, strong, and flattened. The tibia and Jibula are long and slender, and some- what curved ; the superior articular surfaces of the tibia are flat, that of the inferior extremity