EYE, the lens and its capsule; he says, " The cap- sule adheres to the ciliary substance, and the lens to the capsule, principally in two or three points; but I confess I have not been able to observe that these points are exactly opposite to the trunks of nerves; so that probably the adhesion is chiefly caused by those vessels which are sometimes seen passing to the cap- sule in injected eyes. We may, however, dis- cover ramifications from some of these points upon and within the substance of the lens, generally following a direction near to that of the fibres, and sometimes proceeding from a point opposite to one of the radiating lines of the same surface. But the principal vessels of the lens appear to be derived from the central artery, by two or three branches at some little distance from the posterior vortex, which I conceive to be the cause of the frequent adhe- sion of a portion of a cataract to the capsule about this point; they follow nearly the course of the radiations and then of the fibres; but there is often a superficial subdivision of one of the radii at the spot where one of them enters." The great size of the vessels distri- buted on the back of the capsule in the foetus strengthens the conclusion that the lens is fur- nished with vessels as the rest of the body. When the eye of a foetus of seven or eight months is finely injected, a branch from the central artery of the retina is filled and may be traced through the centre of the vitreous hu- mour to the back of the capsule, where it ramifies in a remarkably beautiful manner, assuming, according to Sommerring, a stellated or radiating arrangement. Zinn declares that he found branches from this vessel penetrating the lens: " Optime autem placet observatio arteriolar lentis, in oculo infantis, cujus vasa cera optime erant repleta, summa voluptate mihi visas, quam prope marginem ad convexi- tatem posteriorem diktam, duobus ramulis perforata capsula in ipsam substantiam lentis profunde se immergentem cortissime con- spexi." He also quotes the authority of Ruysch, Moeller, Albinus, and Winslow, as favouring the same view. Against such au- thority I find that of the French systematic writer Bichat advanced; but on such a point his opinion is of little value. Annexed is Zinn's representa- Fig. 125. tion of the distribu- tion of the branch of the central artery on the back of the capsule, from a preparation in Lieberkiihn's mu- seum. Similar fi- gures have been given by Albinus, Sommerring, and Sir Charles Bell. Of the aqueous humour.—In the preliminary observations at the commencement of this article, I stated that a cavity or space filled with water exists between the cornea and crys- talline lens, in which space the iris is extended, with its aperture or pupil, to moderate the quantity of light, and interrupt the passage of the extreme rays. It is bounded anteriorly by the concave inner surface of the cornea, and posteriorly by the crystalline lens and other parts, and is necessarily divided into two spaces or chambers by the iris. That in front of the iris, called the anterior chamber, is bounded by the concave inner surface of the cornea anteriorly, and by the flat surface of the iris posteriorly, which, I have already stated, is a plane, not a convex surface, as represented in the plates of Zinn and others. The size of this space is necessarily small, and varies in different individuals according to the convexity of the cornea, which also frequently varies. It is always, however, sufficiently large to allow the surgeon to introduce a needle to break up a cataract without wounding the iris or cornea. The posterior chamber is bounded in front by the back of the iris, and behind by the crys- talline lens; with that portion of the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour, which is between the anterior termination of the ciliary processes of the choroid and the circumference of the lens. The circumference of the pos- terior chamber is bounded by the anterior ex- tremities of the ciliary processes of the choroid, as they extend from the vitreous humour to the back of the iris. It does not appear to be generally admitted or well understood that any part of the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour enters into the composition of the posterior chamber of the aqueous hu- mour, notwithstanding the decisive opinion and accurate representation of the celebrated Sommerring, in which I entirely concur, as I have stated above in describing the vitreous humour. The size of the posterior chamber has been the subject of much discussion and contro- versy, and various attempts have been made by freezing the eye and other means to deter- mine the matter. Petit, after a careful inves- tigation, considered that the distance between the lens and iris was less than a quarter or half a line, in which Haller appears to concur. Winslow, in the Memoirs of the French Aca- demy for 1721, insists that the iris is in contact with the lens. Lieutaud, in his Essais Ana- tomiques, is equally positive on this point, and even denies altogether the existence of a posterior chamber. The question is not an indifferent one, inasmuch as it involves impor- tant considerations as to operations for cataract and inflammations of the iris. Modern ana- tomists appear, generally, to consider the dis- tance between the lens and iris to be greater than it really is. Although I cannot agree with Winslow and Lieutaud that the margin of the pupil is always in contact with the lens, I believe it frequently is so, especially in the earlier periods of life, when the curvatures of the lens are considerable. In iritis adhesions generally take place between the margin of the pupil and the capsule of the lens, a conse- quence not easily accounted for, if the parts be not iu contact. In old age the lens be- comes much flattened, and therefore retreats from the pupil, to such a degree that the sha-