414 ORGANS OF GENERATION. cavity, immersed in the juices of the body, from which they derive their secretion. Never- theless, although essentially constructed upon similar principles, the testicular cceca present a singular diversity of form in different genera, and some of the modifications are sufficiently curious, although in the present state of our knowledge it would be hopeless to attempt to explain the reason of their existence. Midler, from a comparison of the researches of various authors upon this subject, has given the follow- ing summary of the principal forms of the sperm-secreting organs, and although the cata- logue of varieties might doubtless be considera- bly extended, those given will abundantly an- swer our present purpose. Beginning from the tubular vessel, which is the simplest form of the testis, he traces it through the various com- plications here enumerated. 1. Simple tubes not branched, but more or less convoluted and closed at one extre- mity. 2. Spiral tubes similarly closed, as in Spho- drus t err kola. 3. Spiral tubes rolled up into little balls, as in Carabus auratus, Aptiuus displosor, Dytiscus, &c. 4. Simple tubes irregularly branched, each branch vesicular near its extremity, as in Prionus coriarius. 5. Simple tubes, divided in a verticillate manner, each division being terminated by a capsule; Scurabteus nasicornis, (Swammerdam.) 6. Simple tubes, divided as the last, but each division ending in a vesicle, as in Triehiusfuseiatus. 7. Simple tubes ending in stellated capsules, the apices of which are produced into slender tubes; ISepa cinerea, (Swam- merdam.) 8. Simple tubes giving off a series of canals, each of which is terminated by a disc- shaped capsule; Cetonia aurata. 9. Simple tubes, ending in flower-shaped capsules, i. e. each capsule consisting of a central vesicle, with other smaller ones placed around it, as in Asida gigas, CEdemera adcarutu, Diaperis violacea, Tenebrio obscurus, (Edemera carulea, &c. 10. Simple tubes, each terminated by a trans- verse capsule, resembling the anther of a flower, as in Apis, Bombyx, Scaris, Calvinia, &c. 11. Simple tubes, dividing into minute radia- ting utricles; Bostrichus capucinus. 12. Simple tubes, each terminated by a cap- sule, which is covered externally with innumerable little vesicles or utricles, as in Musca asilus, Eiater murinus, Blaps gigas, TelephonesJ'uscus. 13. Simple tubes, ending in an elongated sac- culus,to the sides of which are appended small vesicles arranged in longitudinal rows, as in Semblis bicauduta. 14. Simple tubes terminating in verticillate utricles, as in Clerus alveolarius. 15. Simple tubes, from which arise utricles Fig. 202. arranged like the teeth of a comb, as in Hydrophilus piceus. 16. Simple tubes, terminated by a simple sac- culus ; Gyrinus nutator. 17. Simple tubes, terminated by a bunch of vesicles. 18. Simple tubes, dividing into minute canals, forming a kind of cauda equina ; Tri- chodes apiarius. 19. Branched tubes, each branch being termi- nated by . a vesicle, as in Stuphilinus maxitloHM. ( Fig. 202.) 20. Tubes very much branched, some of the ramusculi ending in bunches of leaf- like utricles, others dilating into pe- dunculated vesicles; Sylpha obscura. ( fig. 203.) 21. Simple loculated utricles, as in Ephe- mera. It is manifest from this sur- vey that, although the secern- ing organs differ so much in form, the canals composing them invariably terminate in blind extremities; nor is it less obvious that the nature of the testis does not depend upon any peculiar arrange- ment of the seminal tubes, but upon the increase of surface obtained by the various ar- rangement of the vessels. Se- cretion, therefore, here, as in every other case, is effected by the internal surface of tubes, utricles, sacculi, &c. the same end being accomplished in some cases by means of very long simple canals, which in others is effected by smaller Testicle of Staphy- branches, tubes, or agglome- linus muxillosus. rated vesicles. Fig. 203. V Testicle of Silpha obscura. Appended to the excretory ducts of the testi- cular organs, near their termination, is found a group of caecal tubes, evidently destined to provide an accessory secretion; these have been named from analogy vesicula seminules. They