FIBRINE. 258 which, when obtained by evaporation, is brittle, yellow, and again soluble in water: this solu- tion is rendered turbid by infusion of galls, but the precipitate differs from that yielded by gelatin, and appears to be a distinct product. The insoluble residue has lost its original cha- racters; it no longer gelatinises with acids or alkalies, and is insoluble in acetic acid and in caustic ammonia. The action of acids and alkalies upon the fibrine of blood has been studied in detail by Berzelius and others; the following is an ab- stract of their results.* All the acids, except the nitric, render fibrine transparent and gelatinous: the diluted acids cause it to shrink up. In sulphuric acid it acquires the appearance of a bulky yellow jelly, which immediately shrinks upon the addition of water, and is a combination of the acid and fib rine; when well washed upon a filter it gra- dually becomes transparent and soluble, and in that state is a neutral sulphate of fibrine. It is again rendered opaque by dilute sulphuric acid, and is precipitated from its aqueous solu- tion by that acid in the form of white flakes, which appear to be a supersulphate. When fibrine is heated in sulphuric acid, both are decomposed, the mass blackens, and sulphu- rous acid is evolved. If the colouring matter has not been entirely washed out of the fibrine, the sulphuric solution is of a brown or purple colour. Nitric acid communicates a yellow colour to fibrine, and, if cold and dilute, combines with it to form a neutral nitrate, analogous to the sulphate When fibrine is digested in nitric acid, nitrogen is evolved, and its composition considerably changed, as we shall more parti- cularly mention in describing the action of this acid on muscular fibre. Muriatic acid gelatinises fibrine and then gradually dissolves it, forming a dark blue liquid, or purple and violet, if retaining any haematosin. This solution, when diluted with water, deposits a white muriate of fibrine, which, like the sulphate, gelatinises when the excess of acid is washed away, and becomes soluble, and is again thrown down from its aqueous solution by excess of acid. The blue liquid, after the separation of the precipitate by dilution, retains its colour, but loses it when saturated with ammonia, and with excess of ammonia becomes yellow. Fibrine digested in dilute muriatic acid is converted into the same white compound as that precipitated by water from the concentrated muriatic solu- tion. Wrhen boiled in the acid, nitrogen is evolved, and a solution is obtained, which, after the saturation of the acid, is precipitated by infusion of galls, but not by alkali or ferrocy- anuret of potassium; on evaporating the solution to dryness a dark brown saline mass remains, so that the fibrine appears to have undergone some decomposition. * Berzelius, Lehrbuch der Thier-Chemie, Woh- ler's German translation. Dresden, 1831. See also Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. iii. p. 201. A solution of recently-fused phosphoric acid acts upon fibrine in the same way as the sul- phuric acid ; but if the acid solution has been kept for some weeks, the fibrine then forms with it a soluble jelly, which is not precipitated by excess of acid. Concentrated acetic acid converts fibrine into a jelly easily soluble in warm water. When this solution is boiled,a little nitrogen is evolved, but nothing is precipitated ; when gently eva- porated, it gelatinises, and leaves, on desic- cation, an opaque insoluble residue. The other acids added to this acetic solution produce precipitates which are compounds of fibrine with the added acid. Fibrine is also preci- pitated from the acetic solution by caustic pot- assa, but is redissolved by excess of alkali. The acetic solution of fibrine is precipitated in white flakes by ferrocyanuret of potassium : this precipitate, when dried, appears to be a compound of fibrine with cyanuret of iron and hydrocyanic acid; it is insoluble in dilute acids, but is decomposed by caustic alkalis, which abstract the cyanuret of iron and hydro- cyanic acid, and the remaining fibrine first gelatinises and then dissolves. 100 parts of this compound, carefully dried at 167°, and then incinerated in a weighed platinum cru- cible, gave 2.8 red oxide of iron,=7.8 of the combination of cyanuret of iron with hydro- cyanic acid; whence it follows that 92.2 of fibrine were contained in the white precipitated compound. Caustic potassa, even much diluted, dissolves fibrine. If the solution is very dilute, the fibrine gradually forms a bulky jelly, which, heated in a close vessel to about 130°, dissolves into a pale yellow liquid, not quite transparent, and which soon clogs a filter. The yellow tint appears to arise from the presence of a small portion of adhering haematosin. When this alkaline solution is saturated by muriatic or acetic acid, it exhales a peculiar fetid odour and blackens silver, announcing the presence of sulphur, so that the animal matter seems to have suffered some slight change. It is stated by Berzelius that fibrine is capable of neutral- izing the alkali, and that such neutral com- pound may be obtained by dissolving the fibrine in the alkaline solution, and adding acetic acid till it begins to occasion a precipi- tate ; the filtered liquid is then perfectly neu- tral, but the potassa bears a very small propor- tion to the fibrine. This neutral solution, he says, much resembles white of egg, and is coagulated by alcohol and acids, though not by heat. Gently evaporated, it gelatinises, and, when dry, assumes the appearance of albumen dried without coagulation. In this state it dissolves in warm water, and is first thrown down, and then redissolved by the acids when added in excess. Alcohol throws down nearly the whole of the fibrine from its neutral alkaline solution : if there be excess of alkali, much of the fibrine is retained. Mr. Hatchett found that fibrine, when digested in strong caustic potassa, evolved ammonia and yielded a species of soap; acids occasion a precipitate in this solution which is altered fibrine, for it neither gelati-