589 HEART. from the posterior orleft^ and a great part of the anterior,—in fact to that part of the tendinous ring which separates the aortic from the auri- culo-ventricular opening. From the posterior part of that portion of the tendinous ring to which the mitral valve is connected, the ante- rior fibres of both auricles, near the septum, arise. As the left tendinous ring is thicker and narrower than the right, there is a larger space left between the fixed edge of the valves and the attachment of the middle coat of the arte- ries than there is on the left side. This space is of some importance, as upon it a consider- able part of the pressure of the column of blood in the large arteries must be thrown during the diastole of the ventricles. There is a good representation of these ten- dinous rings given in Tab. II. Opera Valsalvae, torn. i. At page 129 they are thus described : " In horum sinuum ambitu qua valvulae si- nubus annectuntur quidem quasi Agger videtur occurrere substantias durioris ad similitudinem cartilaginis tarsi palpebrarum." I find also that Gerdy* appears to have had an accurate notion of the form and appearance of these ten- dinous rings. He was aware of the existence of the projecting angles of the tendinous ring which pass up between the festoons of the middle coat of the arteries, and which have been overlooked m succeeding descriptions. I find also that the late Dr. A. Duncan, jun. has, in his unpublished manuscript, given a very accurate account of these structures in the heart of the ox. Tendinous structure in the auricula-ventri- cular valves.—Distinct tendinous fibres exist in the auriculo-ventricular valves enclosed be- tween the reduplication of the lining serous membrane. These are continuous with the auriculo-ventricular tendinous zones, and are most distinct and of great strength at the base. I could never observe any distinct traces of mus- cular fibres in these valves in the human heart either when fresh or after long boiling. Bouil- laud has, from the examination of one incon- clusive case, but principally from analogy with the corresponding valves of the heart of the ox, supposed that they may exist in some cases in hypertrophy of the valves. In making exami- nations of this kind we must be exceedingly careful not to mistake the tendinous fibres when tinged with blood for muscular fibres, for under these circumstances they certainly at all times assume the appearance of muscular fibres .f * Journal Complementaire, torn. x. t In the heart of the dog 1 have seen a distinct band of transverse muscular fibres in the base of the larger lip of the mitral valve, but could never satisfy myself of the existence of any longitudinal muscular fibres. In the heart of the ox and horse very distinct longitudinal muscular fibres are seen in the valves of both sides of the heart, princi- pally, if not entirely, continuous with the inner layer of the fibres of the auricles. A greater part pass over the inner surface of the tendinous rings, and are firmly attached to the tendinous structure of the valves, reaching nearly to the lower margin of the smaller segments of the valves. The effect of these fibres upon the movements of the valves would form an interesting subject of investigation. Tendinous structure in the arterial valves.— Distinct tendinous fibres also exist in the arte- rial valves, which must add considerably to their strength and prevent their more frequent rupture. Three of these tendinous bands in each valve are stronger than the others, and their position deserves attention, as they are often the seat of disease. One of these bands occupies the free margin of the valve, and passes between the projecting extremities of the tendinous festoons (fig. 270, a). Upon the middle of this band the corpus Arantii, which is formed of a similar texture, is placed. The other band comes from a point a little above the middle of the projecting end of the tendinous festoon (fig. 270, b), and passes up in a curved manner towards the corpus Arantii, leaving between it and the superior band a triangular space on each side, in which, if any tendinous fibres exist, they are exceed- ingly obscure. These two tendinous bands were well known to Morgagni. The third band is placed in the attached margin of the valve, and renders this part the thickest and strongest. Between the middle band and the attached margin of the valve a number of weaker bands are placed, which also pass up- wards, generally assuming a curved form. Mor- gagni termed these lower and weaker fibres jibra carnea, but they evidently belong to the same structure as the stronger bands. The arrange- ment of these tendinous fibres is best seen in the aortic valves, and the appearance exhibited in the accompanying representation, (fig. 270,) Fig. 270. which has been taken from Morgagni, is not always distinctly observed, where the valves are perfectly healthy, but become sufficiently obvious in certain cases of disease. Attachment of the middle coat of the arte- ries to the arterial tendinous rings.—The inner and outer serous membranes are continued from the heart upon the arteries ; the one becoming the inner coat of the arteries, and the other is continued for a short distance upon their ex- ternal surface. A thin layer of cellular tissue also passes from the heart along the arteries between their middle coat and their external serous membrane. These are, however, so far unimportant compared with the attachment of the middle coat of the arteries to the tendinous fes- toons which we have just described. The middle coat is so very firmly and strongly attached both to the external edges and to the anterior portion of the upper part of these projecting extremi- ties, (fig. 267, d,) that it can be detached with great difficulty. Those fibres of the middle coat attached to the projecting extremities,