TNSECTA. 918 Fig. 388. Internal skeleton of Lucanus cervus. meron, it is formed by a reflection inwards of part of the anterior margin of the meta-sternum, (4 </,) with which the meso-sternum lias become anchyclosed, and the episternum and epimeron form the lateral boundary of the cavity. The great strength of limb required by insects for other purposes than those of locomotion, be- longs especially to the first and second pair of legs, and consequently the articulations of these with the body are required to be most secure. We have seen that in the aquatic in- sects the posterior pair are almost solely em- ployed in swimming, and in the terrestrial in- sects they are in like manner employed chiefly in locomotion. The necessity, therefore, for a consolidation of the walls of the acetabula, into which they are inserted, is not so great as in the preceding instances, and consequently we find that those for the posterior pair (4 r) are formed by the posterior margin of the expanded meta-sternum in front, and the consolidated margin of the inferior surface of the fifth or thoracico-abdominal segment behind, reflected inwards and upwards, and loosely articulated in the median line with the sternum, thus al- lowing of the freest motion to the coxa, the sides of each being formed by the epimeron. But in insects which move with a sudden effort, as in jumping, and in those that employ the hinder legs as prehensile organs, like the Coprida, Ateuchi, and others, these legs, like the anterior ones, are inserted into deep acetabula. The abdomen, or third division of the body., is entirely destitute of organs of locomotion. It contains the chief part of the digestive, re- spiratory, circulatory, and generative systems, and, like the thorax, is composed of distinct segments. These are nine in number, if the fifth segment of the body, which almost disap- pears during the change to the perfect state, be included. This segment, however, we prefer to consider as a distinct part, so that the abdo- men consists certainly of eight segments, be- sides the anal appendages. Each segment is formed of one dorsal and one ventral plate, connected at the sides by a distinct membrane. Only five of these plates are in general to be observed on the under surface, but some trace of the whole number is always seen on the upper, and also at the sides ( fig- 388). This arises from the circumstance that a portion of the ventral surface of the first three segments of the larva is employed in forming the under surface of the anterior part of the abdomen of the perfect insect, the change in Coleoptera, as in other insects, being carried to a greater ex- tent on the under than on the upper surface of the body. One segment, also, the anal one, becomes partly removed from the others at the posterior part, and is retractile within the ab- domen, so that there are only five connected segments to the ventral surface, but nine on the upper. The form of the abdomen is in general somewhat triangular or oval in Coleoptera, its basial part being of the same width as the tho- rax. Each segment is freely moveable, the an- terior part of one being retractile within the posterior of another. At the external margin of each dorsal plate, in the membrane that connects those of the upper with the under surface, there is an oval corneous ring, the spiraculum, or breathing orifice, which commu- nicates internally with the organs of respiration. In most of the Coleoptera the abdomen is co- vered by the elytra, but in some species it is exposed, as in the oil-beetles, rove-beetles, and ear-wigs. In the latter instances it is furnished at its extremity with strong forceps, which appear to be analogous to parts which we are about to consider more particularly in other insects.