304 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. tion : he has made repeated dissections of the distribution of the lesser packet of the nerve both in the horse and in man, and after a care- ful examination, it appears to him that Mayo is essentially right, though the view given by him does not exactly agree with the arrange- ment of the nerve as found by the author either in the horse or in man. In the former the masseteric branch arises from the lesser packet by two fasciculi, one of which runs round the ganglionic portion of the third division of the nerve, and joins the other and larger fasciculus before it: the facial portion of the buccal nerve appears to the author to be purely gan- glionic, but the root of the nerve in part appears to be derived from the non-ganglionic portion and is not; and in part may or may not be considered to proceed from it. It is entangled at its origin with fasciculi of that por- tion, more or fewer of the filaments which it derives from the ganglionic packet passing be- tween and even interlacing with fasciculi of the non-ganglionic; but by a patient proceeding these may be traced to their proper source, and the nerve be extricated from this connexion. It is, however, difficult to accomplish it at times, at others it is sufficiently easy. Again, one or more branches of the non-ganglionic portion accompany the buccal nerve for some distance, connected to it more or less intimately, but apparently not enclosed within the same sheath, though communicating with the nerve by fila- ments from a ganglionic fasciculus and separa- ble without injury to either. These branches, however, separate from the nerve again for dis- tribution before it leaves the zygomatic fossa; they may be considered, or not, to belong to the nerve, but they do not affect the question with regard to its facial portion ; and the author believes that the arrangement described is not uniform, the branches adverted to not always accompanying the buccal nerve. Again, on the one hand it has been already shewn that division of the portio dura on both sides deprives the facial muscles of all inde- pendent* contractile power, whether voluntary or involuntary ; and on the other, Mayo has found that irritation of the buccal nerve does not excite contraction in those muscles : the author has taken occasion several times to repeat the experiment of Mayo upon the latter nerve after it had emerged upon the face, and he has not succeeded in obtaining contraction of the facial muscles thereby, while the strug- gles of the animal, excited by the irritation of the nerve, proved it to be one of exquisite sen- sibility. It appears then to the author impos- sible to admit that the facial muscles either possess two contractile powers dependent on distinct nerves, or that they derive any volun- tary power from the fifth. It is extraordinary that Magendie, who was the first to detect the error into which Bell had fallen with regard to the influence of the infra- orbital nerve over the motions of the muscles * This expression has been used because the muscles may be still excited to contraction by irri- tation of the portion of the nerve connected with them. of the face, and has, according to his own report, divided the portio dura on animals, should, notwithstanding all that has been written upon the subject, have adopted the opinion that the muscles of the face are en- dowed with the two distinct faculties of motion, one of which is derived from the fifth. His view will be found at page 703-4, Anatomie des Systemes Nerveux, &c, and the opinion there expressed is implied in a note at page 191, Journal de Physiologie, t. x. In the former he says, " Now Mr. Charles Bell in England and M. Magendie in France by cutting the facial nerve have paralyzed the respiratory motions of all the side of the face correspond- ing to the nerve cut. But the muscles which receive at once filaments from the facial nerve and from the fifth pair were paralyzed only in their action relative to respiration and to the expression of the physiognomy." The influence of the fifth nerve upon the tac- tile sensibility of the parts with which it is con- nected has been discussed : its influence upon their ordinary sensibility also requires notice. From the preceding details it appears esta- blished that it is to the same nerve that this property also of the parts in general is due; but there is reason to believe that the nerve exerts a more extended control over this faculty than was at first supposed. At the commence- ment of the inquiries into the functions of the nerves of the face, the opinion generally held was that the facial nerve—portio dura of the seventh pair—was devoid of sensibility. Fur- ther observations, however, showed that this conclusion was erroneous, and that the insen- sibility to any injury done to the nerve in question manifested by the subjects of experi- ment, and from which the inference had been drawn, was only apparent, and to be referred to the constitution of the individual animal or of its species. The sensibility of the facial nerve having been established, a question arose, whether that property was independent and proper to it, or whether it was conferred by another ? Those who first observed the sensi- bility of the nerve adopted the former opinion ; but considerations entitled certainly to much weight led Eschricht to suspect that the facial nerve is not endowed with independent sensi- bility, and that the sensibility which is manifested when it is injured is conferred on it by the fifth nerve. In order to determine the question he performed a series of experiments in which he divided the fifth nerve within the cranium upon one side after having opened the cavity and removed so much of the corresponding hemi- sphere of the brain as was necessary for the accomplishment of his purpose: the facial nerve of the same side was then exposed, and its properties tested. The faculties of the animal are so little affected by the removal of the brain, that the result of the experiment seems free from objection, while all influence of the fifth nerve upon the sensibility of the facial or other parts must be destroyed. In his first successful experiment irritation of the facial excited spasms of the lips, and also in- dications of suffering so decided that a doubt