INSECTA. 930 nervure of the inferior wing, and is received into a socket near the base of the main nervure on the under side of the upper wing. This apparatus for connecting the wings appears to give additional strength to the insect, since it exists only in those species which fly most rapidly, and continue for a great length of time on the wing. But in those insects in which the body is very large in proportion to the size of these organs, and which are necessitated by their habits to be constantly abroad, and to rly to a great distance, as is the case with the Ilymenoptera, the means of uniting the wings is more perfect. It consists not of a single booklet, as in Lepidoptera, but of a series of very minute hooks of a somewhat spiral form (Jig. 397), and arranged along a curved portion Fig. 397. A, inferior wing of Bombus terrestris; a, the costal nervure, on which arc seated the hooks, b ; (c, the winglet) ; B, the hooks in the working bee, apis mellijica. of the costal nervure, at the anterior superior margin of the second pair of wings. These hooks are described by Mr. Kirby,* and are found in nearly all the Ilymenoptera. They are arranged in a slightly twisted or spiral direction along the margin of the wing, so as to resemble a screw, and when the wings are expanded attach themselves to a little fold on the posterior margin of the anterior wing, along which they play very freely when the wings are * Monographia Apum Anglian, vol. i. tab. 13, fig. 19. Ipswich, 1802. in motion, slipping to and fro like the rings on the rod of a window curtain. The form of the hooks is very similar throughout the whole order, each hook being twisted at its extremity a little to one side and recurved. They are always situated at the same part of the wing, but vary in number in different genera, and even in the sexes. In Urocerida, Sirex juvcn- cus, they are few and scattered along the margin of the wing, and this is also the case in Tri- c/iiosoma, but we have found them far more numerous in Ichneumon Atropos. In the sterile female or worker of the common wasp, Vespa vulguris,\ve have found them very strong, and about twenty in number, besides five stiff spines which are not bent in the form of hooks. In most instances, particularly in the Bombi, the hooks are less numerous in the males than in the females. Thus, in the male of Bombus terrestris there are but eighteen in each wing in the male, but twenty-five in the fertile female. In the male of Bombus lapidarius there are only eighteen in each wing, and there is the same number in the worker or sterile female, but there are twenty-three in each wing of the fertile female. In Anthophora retusa there are only twenty in the male, but twenty-two in the female. In Osmia there are twelve in the male and fifteen in the female. But the reverse is the case in Anthidium municatum, in which there are thirty in the male, but only twenty- five in the female. In Megachile there are sixteen in the female, but in the cuckoo-bee, Melecta punctata, there are thirteen hooks and four imperfectly developed spines. In the male of Eucera longicornis there are only thirteen hooks, but in the female twenty-three, while in the female Calioxys conica there are only twelve. In the queen or fertile female of the common hive-bee there are only seventeen slender hooks, arranged at some distance apart, and different in their appearance from those of the common humble-bee. In the sterile female or worker there are nineteen, but in the heavy male, or drone, there are twenty-one. In the male, as in the fertile female, of the hive-bee, the hooks are placed further apart, and are more slender than in the workers, besides which they are differently shaped in the neuter, in which each hook has also a little tooth near its apex. On reviewing this difference in the number of hooks in the two sexes, we are certainly con- firmed in the opinion that it has some relation to the comparative powers of flight of the respective insects, and is not a sexual distinc- tion. The great object of the hooks evidently is to keep the wings steady during flight, in order that they may act in unison, and thereby enable the insect to continue much longer on the wing with less muscular exertion, because, when the two wings are made to act but as one, the effort of flying becomes more concentrated, and the wings strike the air with greater effect than if they were separated or but imperfectly connected. It is well known that the males of the humble-bees, Bombi, are much feebler on the wing than the fertile females, and it is the same with the individuals of the genus Osmia,