GASTEROPODA. 387 P<g. 185. Many Gasteropoda which devour shell-fish and other hard materials have a true gizzard adapted to break in pieces such food; this is the case with Thcthys, an animal whose mouth is totally desti- tute of dental organs, but their want is supplied by a fleshy gizzard resembling that of a bird, having its interior lined with a dense cartilagi- nous membrane, like that which lines the gizzard of graminivorous fowls, and in its cavity shells of Mollusca and Crustaceans are found comminuted by its action. In LimntEUS we find a gizzard strictly analogous in structure to that of a granivorous bird : it presents two dilatations, one at the cardiac, the other at the pyloric extremity, whilst the middle portion is occupied by two strong mus- cles, united at the sides by tendinous bands. The gizzard of Planorbis is precisely similar to that of Limnaeus. In Onchidium the muscular gizzard is followed by two other stomachs, the lining membrane of that which immediately succeeds it being gathered into large folds, which must greatly retard the pas- sage of the aliment; while the third cavity, which is short and cylindrical, is likewise lined with a membrane folded into more delicate plicae, affecting a longitudinal direction. There are some families in this class which are provided with a still more elaborate appa- ratus for the preparation of their food, their stomachs being armed internally with teeth variously disposed, and on many accounts extremely curious. In all the Bullae (Akera) the gizzard contains three plates of stony hard- ness attached to its walls, and so disposed that they are evidently powerful agents in the tritu- ration of the food. In Bulla lignaria (fig. 186) two of these teeth are place 1 on either side of the gizzard, into the cavity of which they project, and are united to each other by strong muscular bands ; the third piece is smaller than the other two, but similarly imbedded in radiating muscles, whose action must powerfully grind down the substances which come under the influence of this singular mill. In the other Bulla the structure of the gizzard is the same, but the bony plates differ slightly in form and arrange- ment. In all, however, the fragments of shells and other hard substances found in it attest the efficacy of the apparatus. The gizzard of Scyllaa (fig. 187, e) is, ex- ternally, a strong fleshy cylinder, and when this is opened there are found, firmly im- bedded in its muscular walls, twelve horny plates, which are extremely hard and as sharp as the blades of a knife; their edges are dis- ie. 187. posed in the direction of the axis of the organ, and as they project considerably into its cavity, their action upon the contents of the gizzard must be sufficiently evident. Aplysia, however, furnishes us with the most curious form of these stomachal teeth. The oesophagus, which is comparatively narrow at its commencement, soon dilates into a capa- cious crop, which is generally found filled with pieces of fucus and the fragments of shells. To th is crop succeeds a short cylindrical gizzard with strong and muscular walls, and after the gizzard we find a third stomach which leads to the intestine. On opening the gizzard and third stomach (fig. 188) they are found to have their Fig.l