ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 819 foot upon a round stone, which rolled from under him, and he came down with consider- able violence on his left knee and side; when raised, he was incapable of walking, and was immediately carried to hospital. The follow- ing morning, on examination, we made the fol- lowing observations : while standing, the body was bent forwards, inclining towards the left or affected side; the left knee and foot were turned inwards ; the knee somewhat more ad- vanced and higher than the other, half flexed, and the toes were resting on the ball of the great toe of the opposite foot; posteriorly, the natis was prominent, and its lower fold was obliterated ; the distance between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and tro- chanter major was less by one inch than be- tween the same points on the unaffected side ; the head of the bone could not be distinctly felt; the limb could be drawn inwards across the opposite thigh, but any attempt to move it in the contrary direction was productive of considerable pain; he complained of much uneasiness in the groin (which was attributed to the tense state of the muscles inserted into the trochanter minor) ; the patient complained greatly of numbness extending along the poste- rior and outer part of the thigh and leg to the foot. The bone was, in this case, easily re- duced, not, however, without the assistance of the pulleys. This dislocation is improperly denominated by some, luxation downwards and backwards. Some surgeons, on the other hand, describe cases of this accident, and yet name them dis- location upwards and backwards on the dor- sum ilii. Of this class, is an interesting ex- ample published by the late Dr. Scott, of the Armagh Infirmary, in the third volume of the Dublin Hospital Reports. The man, the sub- ject of the accident, died thirty-six hours after the injury. Dr. Scott says:—" When the patient was lifted out of bed and placed erect, the limb retained the posture before described ; it was nearly two inches shorter than the other; the knee rested above its fellow ; the toes were turned inwards, and lay above the opposite instep. On viewing the hip, the trochanter was manifestly higher on the maimed side than the other. The hollow naturally formed behind that process had disappeared—the buttock was shorter and rounder, but flaccid ; the head of the bone could not be felt through the glutaei muscles. No effort of the patient could extend the limb, but he had the power of bending it a little towards the abdomen, by making the op- posite leg a fulcrum for the inverted toes to creep upwards upon. The dislocation was re- duced, and he died in thirty-six hours after- wards, in consequence of the injury some of the organs in the abdomen received, at the same time that the hip-joint was dislocated." It is stated, that" on dissecting down to the hip-joint, an extensive extravasation of blood presented itself in the cutaneous cellular membrane, co- vering the trochanter major, and also beneath the fascia lata of the thigh, extending several inches above and below the trochanter. The gluteus magnus being raised from its origin, a considerable extravasation was found in the loose cellular tissue under the gluteus medius. A cavity capable of containing a pullet's egg was also brought into view. This cavity was situated directly where the great sciatic nerve passes under the pyrifbrm muscle; it contained fluid blood ; its boundaries were the pyriformis above, the sciatic nerve before (supposing the body upright), the trochanter major, and insertion of the gluteus medius external and posterior; the gluteus maximus directly posterior. Here the displaced head of the femur had been lodged. The fleshy substance of the gemelli and quadratus muscles was found torn across. The pyriformis and obturator internus were perfect; the extravasated blood followed the course of the sciatic nerve deep into the thigh ; there was also extravasation between the gluteus medius and minimus muscles. The internal and upper part of the capsular liga- ment of the joint was ruptured; the external portion remained unbroken. On turning the head of the bone out of its socket, the liga- mentum teres was found to have been torn from its insertion into the dimple of the head of the thigh-bone ; the brim of the acetabulum, at its upper part, was fractured to the extent of about one inch; the fractured portion lay loose and nearly unconnected ; a fracture traversed the acetabulum." In this case it is manifest, from the dissection, that the head of the bone lay beneath even the level of the lower edge of the pyriform muscle, as Dr. Scott states that the boundaries of the cavity (capable of containing a pullet's egg, and rilled with coagulated blood,) which no doubt was the new situation that the head of the dislocated femur for a time rested in,—that the boundaries of this cavity were " the pyriformis above," &c. The dis- section we consider a valuable one, adding something to our knowledge of the anatomical characters of the luxation into the ischiatic notch ; differing, however, in some few particu- lars, from that of Sir A. Cooper, Dr. Scott's, it is to be recollected, was the dissection of a case in which the bone had been only a few hours misplaced. When we analyse the previous symptoms of Dr. Scott's case, we do not, it must be confessed, read the characteristic fea- tures detailed of the dislocation backwards ; still the pain the patient suffered along the course of the sciatic nerve rather pointed the attention to a dislocation on the sciatic notch, than to the ordinary one of dislocation upwards on the dorsum ilii, in which the nerve is not, at least directly, interfered with; and the observation added, that " the head of the bone could not be felt through the glutei muscles," also would lead us to infer that among many of the symptoms this patient laboured under, some were such as would lead us to suspect that the luxation was that backwards towards the sciatic notch, a suspicion that, in the wri- ter's mind, the dissection given by Dr. Scott would fully justify. We suspect, also, that one of the cases 3 H 2