125 ENTOZOA. Fig. 71. Strongylus gigas, male. to the nature of its food, which is derived from the vessels of the kidney, as, where suppuration has taken place around it, the worm has been found of a whitish hue. The Round-worm (Ascaris Lumbricoides, Linn.) (Jig. 72) is the first described* and most common of the Human Entozoa, and is that which has been subjected to the most repeated, minute, and successful anatomical examinations. It is found in the intestines of Man, the Hog, and the Ox. In the Human subject the round worms are much more com- mon in children than in adults, and are ex- tremely rare in aged persons. They are most obnoxious to individuals of the lymphatic tem- perament, and such as use gross and indi- gestible food, or who inhabit low and damp * It is the gX/uiv; errpoyyuXoc of Hippocrates. Fig. 72. localities. They generally occur a in the small intestines. The body is round, elastic, with a smooth shining surface, of a whitish or yellowish colour; atte- nuated towards both extremities, but chiefly towards the anterior one (a,fig. 72), which commences abruptly by three tubercles which surround the mouth, and charac- terize the genus. The posterior extremity (b) terminates in an ob- tuse point, at the apex of which a small black point may frequently be observed. In the female this extremity is straighter and thicker than in the male, in which it is terminated more acutely, and is abruptly curved towards the ventral side of the body. The anus is situated in both sexes close to the extremity of the tail, in form like a transverse fissure. In the female the body generally presents a con- striction at the junction of the an- terior with the middle third (c) in which the vulva (d) is situated. The body of the Ascaris lumbri- coides is transversely furrowed with numerous very fine stria, and is marked with four longitudinal equi- distant lines extending from the head to the tail. These lines are independent of the exterior enve- lope, which simply covers them; two are lateral, and are larger than the others, which are dorsal and ventral. The lateral lines com- mence on each side the mouth, but, from their extreme fineness, can with difficulty be perceived; they slightly enlarge as they pass downwards to about one-third of a line in diameter in large speci- mens, and then gradually diminish to the sides of the caudal extremi- ty. They are occasionally of a red colour, and denote the situation of the principal vessels of the body. The dorsal and abdominal longitu- dinal lines (e, fig. 72) are less marked than the preceding, and by no means widen in the same proportion at the middle of the body. They correspond to the two nervous chords, hereafter to be described. The last species of Human En- tozoon which remains to be noticed is the Ascaris vermicularis (fig. 73), a small worm, also noticed by Hip- pocrates under the name of xa-nct^g, and claiming the attention of all phy- sicians since his time, as one of the most troublesome parasites of chil- dren, and occasionally of adults; in both of whom it infests the larger intestines, especially the rectum. The size of the Ascaris vermicularis varies