714 HERMAPHRODITISM. Fig. 304. External sexual organs and testicles. ' gg, the prepuce; hh, the vasa deferentia ; i, the anus ; kh, ischiatic protuberances. membrane obstructing the orifice of the vulva. The os tincoe was surrounded by small globular glands. The orifice and neck of the uterus admitted a large probe into the cavity of that organ, which appeared perfect with all its ap- pendages. The round and broad ligaments, together with well-developed ovaries (jig. 305, b b), were all found in situ. The scrotum Fig. 305. Internal sexual organs seen from hehind. d, the urinary bladder ; ff, rectum j gg, broad ligaments; cc, Fallopian tubes. (fig. 304, c) was divided, and consisted of a sac on each side of the labia externa, at the base of the penis, covered with hair. The testicles (fig. 304, d d) lay beneath the skin of the groin about two inches from the symphysis pubis, obliquely outwards and upwards: they appeared to be perfectly formed with the epi- didymis (J[f), &c. The most accurate examina- tion could not discover vesiculae seminales ; but an opening into the vagina, above the meatus urinarius, appeared to be the orifice of the vas deferens. In all other respects the male and female organs of generation were in this animal as completely perfected as could have been anticipated in so young an individual, and resembled those of other individuals of a similar age. Two imperfect instances are on record of the co-existence of male testicles and female ovaries in the human subject. a. The first of these cases is detailed by Schrell.* It occurred in an infant who died when nine months old. All the internal and external male organs were present and perfectly formed, with the exception of the prepuce of the penis, which seemed divided in front and rolled up. At the root of the large penis, was a small vulva or aperture capable of admitting a pea, and provided with bodies having an appearance of labia and nymphse. This vulva led into a vagina that penetrated through the symphysis pubis, and terminated in a nipple-like body or imperfect uterus, to which, structures having a resemblance to the Fallopian tubes and ovaries were attached. b. The other and still more doubtful case of the alleged existence of both testicles and ovaries in the human subject, was first pub- lished by Beclard.f The case was met with by M. Laumonier of Rouen, who injected and dissected the sexual parts, and deposited them in a dried state, along with a wax model repre- senting them in their more recent condition, in the Museum of the School of Medicine at Paris. In the wax model two female ovaries with an uterus, vagina, external vulva, and large imperforate clitoris, are seen combined with two male testicles, the vasa deferentia of which terminate in the uterus at the place at which the round ligaments are normally situ- ated ; these ligaments themselves are wanting. The preparation of the dried sexual parts is far from being equally satisfactory, and, in its present imperfect condition at least, does not bear out by any means the complete double her- maphroditic structure delineated in the model. III. HERMAPHRODITISM AS MANIFESTED IN THE GENERAL CONFORMATION OF THE BODY, AND IN THE SECONDARY SEXUAL CHARAC- TERS. In the preceding observations we have prin- cipally confined ourselves to the description of hermaphroditic malformations as seen in the resemblance in appearance and structure of the * Schenk's Medic. Chirurg. Archiv. Bd. i. s. t Bullet, de la Fac. de Med. 1815, p. 284; or, Diet, des Sc. Med. x.\i, p. 111.