HEART. 592 This arrangement of the external fibres was also well known to Winslow* and Lancisi.f Winslow, however, denied that they described the figure of eight, as stated by Lower. More lately Gerdy has given a description of this arrangement, to which he has added an en- graving, which approaches more to the ap- pearance of the perfect figure of eight than that given by Lower. I, however, prefer that given by Lower, as it more nearly resembles the arrangement which I have myself seen in tracing these fibres. A small part of the right and posterior side of this vortex is formed by fibres from the posterior surface of the left ventricle, and from that part of the posterior surface of the right ventricle near the septum, and are attached above to the auricular tendi- nous rings, while the whole of the anterior and left side of the vortex is formed by fibres from the anterior surface and right margin of the ventricles. On tearing these last fibres, which form the principal part of the apex, from the anterior surface of the left ventricle, we find, as we proceed upwards, that a comparatively small part of them cross the anterior fissure upon the right ventricle to reach the right au- ricular tendinous ring. The greater number dip in at the anterior longitudinal fissure, and we shall afterwards find that they can be traced to the base of the septum of the ventricles. By tearing off' these fibres downwards, we open into the apex of the left ventricle. A general notion of the manner in which these fibres, passing from the base of the septum, turn in at the apex, and proceed upwards on the inner surface of the left ventricle, may be obtained from fig. 273. To have been quite accurate the inner fibres should have been more scat- tered, and some of them represented as termin- ating in the columnse carneoe. By unravelling the fibres which form the apex, we may open into the interior of the left ventricle without breaking a single muscular fibre. Having thus opened the apex of the heart, although the point is removed, the circular edge is left entire (fig. 274, a), and is formed of another series Fig. 274. I * Memoires de l'Acad. Roy. 1711. p. 197. t De Motu Cordis : Opera omnia, torn. iv. p. 96. 1745. of fibres, which, like those taken away, ad- vance spirally from the base to the apex, and turning over the edge (fig. 274, b) ascend in the opposite direction, continuing their course after being reflected. " Proceeding in the same manner the whole apex of the left ven- tricle may be removed, and the same principle of arrangement is found throughout the whole heart even to the base. When we get down as far as the apex of the right ventricle, although the principle remains the same, its effects are more complicated, as it applies to two cavities instead of one." I have frequently satisfied myself of the correctness of the description contained in this passage, which I have quoted from the manuscript of Dr. Duncan. This is the same kind of arrangement which, we have already stated, has been insisted upon by Gerdy, but which we believe can be more satisfactorily seen by tracing the fibres in this manner. Gerdy lays it down as a general law, that all the fibres of the heart form loops, the apices of which look towards the apex of the heart (fig. 271). I find that Dr. Duncan states that while the apices of those loops which form the lower part of the heart point to the apex, as Gerdy has described, " yet he commits a great error when he asserts that the apices of all the fibres of the heart point in that direction, since the number of tops which point in the opposte direction is not less."* When the superficial fibres of the heart have been removed as represented in fig. 274, we will find that if we trace the great mass of fibres occupying the lower and middle part of the left ventricle, they will be seen to run spirally in strong bundles from above down- wards and from right to left, to wind round and form the posterior as well as the anterior part of the point of the heart; that the greater mass pass in at the apex of the left ventricle to assist in forming the columnae carneae and in- ternal surface, while others pass in at the apex of the right ventricle, and others again, after turning a little upwards, dip into the interior below some of the higher fibres. On tracing them upwards, on the other hand, they dip in at the anterior longitudinal fissure (fig. 274, d) where they are as it were dovetailed with other fibres from the anterior surface of the right ventricle passing in at the same fissure, and then mount almost vertically upwards to the base of the septum, forming part of the sep- tum of the right ventricle, only separated from its lining membrane by a thin layer of fibres, and are inserted in a strong band in the ox into the bone of the heart, which is placed between the auriculo-ventricular openings and aorta, while in the human heart they are spread * I could not discover in Dr. Duncan's manu- script any other description or allusion to the fibres here mentioned whose arrangement is opposed to the general law which Gerdy is anxious to establish. There is no doubt, however, that many of these loops at the base are principally directed to the periphery of the organ, and very little downwards, and that a few in the infundibulum are slightly directed upwards.