HEARING. 566 in consequence of the duration of the impres- sion upon the auditory nerve. The frequency of repetition necessary for the production of a continued sound from single impulses is, according to Sir J. Herschel, probably not less than sixteen times in a second, though the limit would appear to differ in different ears. We distinguish in musical sounds, 1, the pitch ; 2, the intensity or loudness; 3, the quality. The pitch of the sound depends on the rapidity with which the vibrations succeed each other, and any two sounds produced by the same number of vibrations or impulses in the same time are said to be in unison. The loudness or intensity depends upon the violence and extent of the primitive impulse. The quality is supposed by Sir J. Herschel to depend on the greater or less abruptness of the impulses, or generally, on the law which regulates the excur- sions of the molecules of air originally set in motion. Sound may be communicated by air, aeri- form fluids, liquids or solids, with variable degrees of velocity. In air at the temperature of 62° Fahr. sound travels at the rate of 1125 feet in a second, or 1090 feet in a second in dry air at the freezing temperature. The velocity with which sound travels is, however, quite independent of its intensity or its tone; sounds of all pitches and of every quality travel with equal speed, as is proved by the fact that distance does not destroy the harmony of a rapid piece of music played by a band. If notes of a different pitch travelled with different velocities, they would not reach the ear in the order in which they were played. Moreover, Biot put it to the test of direct ex- periment ; he caused several tunes to be played on a flute at the end of a pipe 3120 feet long, and found that they could be distinctly heard without the slightest derangement. Neither is the velocity of sound affected by an increase of density in the air. It is, how- ever, greater in warm than in cold air in conse- quence of the greater elasticity of the former. In the different gases much variety has been observed in the velocity of sound ; through car- bonic gas the rate of the velocity is said to be one-third slower than ordinary, but through hy- drogen gas, which is twelve times more elastic than common air, the speed exceeds the usual rate three and a half times. A more striking difference is as regards the intensity of sound or the impression it is capable of producing on our organs of hearing. This varies conside- rably with the increase or diminution in the density of the transmitting gas. By means of a piece of clock-work, which caused a ham- mer to strike at regular intervals, the conduct- ing power of the gas could be estimated, the clock-work being placed in a glass receiver filled with the gas. It was thus that Priestley ascer- tained that in hydrogen the sound was scarcely louder than in vacuo; in carbonic acid and in oxygen it was somewhat louder than in air. Water can transmit sound, as the anatomist would infer must be the case from the fact that fishes are provided with distinct and highly developed organs of hearing. Hauksbee, An- deron, the Abbe" Nollet, and Franklin have abundantly proved this by their experiments. M. Colladon, by means of a tin cylinder three yards long and eight inches in diameter, closed at its lower end but open to the air above, plunged vertically in the water, was enabled to hear the sound of a bell at a distance of about nine miles, and from numerous observations he concluded that the velocity of sound in water at about 46° Fahr. was equal to 4708 feet in the second. Solids convey sound as well as or even better than air or liquids. Elasticity and ho- mogeneousness are the qualities which best adapt solids for the conveyance of sound: hard substances, then, which are the most elastic, conduct sound best. An interesting experiment of Hassenfratz and Gay Lussac, in the quarries of Paris, affords a striking contrast of the relative conducting powers of air and solids. A blow of a hammer against the rock produced two sounds which separated in their progress; that propagated through the stone arrived almost instantly, while the sound con- veyed by the air lagged behind. A more re- markable experiment was that of Herhold and Rahn, related by Chladni:—a metallic wire 600 feet long was stretched horizontally, and at one end a plate of sonorous metal was attached; when the plate was slightly struck, a person at the opposite end, holding the wire in his teeth, heard at every blow two distinct sounds, the first transmitted almost simulta- neously by the metal, the other arriving later through the air. Biot, with the assistance of Messrs. Boulard and Malus, concluded the velocity of sound in cast iron at the tempera- ture 51° Fah. to be 11,090 feet in a second. litjiexion of sound.—Sonorous undulations in passing from one medium to another always experience a partial reflexion, and when they encounter a fixed obstacle, they are wholly reflected; and in both cases the angle of in- cidence is, as in the reflexion of light, equal to the angle of reflexion. Echos are sounds reflected from some ob- stacle which is placed in their way, as the wall of a house, or those of an apartment, or the surface of a rock, or the vaulted roof of a church, &c; and a sound thus reflected may, by meeting another similar obstacle, be again reflected, and thus the echo may be repeated many times in succession, becoming, however, fainter at each repetition till it dies away alto- gether. The phenomena of echos illustrate beautifully the analogy between sound and light. Thus, the reflexion of sound from con- cave and convex surfaces takes place exactly as in the case of light: if a reflecting surface be concave towards an auditor, the sounds re- flected from its several points will converge towards him, exactly as reflected rays of light do; and he will receive a sound more intense than if the surface were plane, and the more so the nearer it approaches to a sphere con- centric with himself; the contrary is the case if the echoing surface be convex. If the echo of a sound excited at one station be required to be heard most intensely at another,