105 ENDOSMOSIS. arid hydrosulphuric acids, added to gum-water, deprived it of the faculty of producing endos- mosis, and that this acidulated water fell in the tube of the endosmometer, instead of rising, as simple gum-water constantly does. These facts induced me to say metaphorically that the sul- phuric and hydrosulphuric acids were the ene- mies of endosmosis. More recent inquiries have enabled me to see the above mentioned phenomena in ano- ther light. It was the oxalic acid which led me to the conclusions I shall now lay be- fore the reader. Having poured a solution of this acid into the endosmometer closed with a piece of bladder, and placed the re- servoir m water, I found the acid fluid sink rapidly in the tube, and flow towards the inferior water, making its way by filtration through the animal membrane. I then reversed the arrangement observed in this experi- ment. I filled the endosmometer with water, and plunged the reservoir into a solution of oxalic acid. I was now surprised to find the water making its way rapidly into the endos- mometer, and the column rising in the tube, so that, in opposition to all I had yet observed, here was the current of endosmosis directed from the acid towards the water. The follow- ing are the particulars of this experiment. Having poured some rain-water into the reser- voir of the endosmometer, I plunged the reser- voir, closed with a piece of bladder, into a so- lution of oxalic acid of the density of 1.045, (11.6 parts of crystallized acid in 100 of the solution,) the temperature being + 25 cent. The ascent of the water in the tube of the en- dosmometer lasted for three days, becoming gradually slower and slower. The ascent hav- ing then become almost imperceptible, I emp- tied the endosmometer, in the contents of which I found water charged with oxalic acid. The exterior fluid was reduced in density to 1.033, so that, whilst the lower acid had pene- trated the upper water by endosmosis, the water had penetrated the acid by exosmosis, and thus diminished its density ; the permea- tion of the water, however, had been less con- siderable than that of the acid ; so that the upper water, increased in volume, had risen in the tube of the endosmometer. We have thus, in the present instance, another obvious proof of the existence of two opposite and unequal currents. Having filled the reservoir of the en- dosmometer anew with rain-water, I placed it in the solution of oxalic acid already used, and of the reduced density of 1.033. The ascent in the tube which again occurred, having almost ceased at the end of two days, I tested the fluid in the endosmometer, and found it to con- tain oxalic acid,and discovered the density of the external fluid further reduced to 1.025. I re- peated the same experiment a third time, filling the reservoir of the endosmometer with rain- water, and plunging it in the old acid solution. Endosmosis went on as before, but with less celerity. Having given up the experiment, after the lapse of twenty-four hours I found the density of the exterior fluid now reduced to 1.023, and the internal fluid to contain a por- tion of oxalic acid as before. I reduced the densi'y of the exterior acid solution to 1.01, but the included water still gave evidence of a pretty active endosmosis. I reduced the den- sity of the acid to 1.005, (1.2 of acid to 100 of the solution,) and the endosmosis was still very remarkable. In these experiments I found that the endosmosis was by so much the more rapid as the exterior acid solution was more dense, so that the capacity of oxalic acid to permeate an animal membrane would appear to increase with the density of its solution in water. In these experiments, too, we observe a fluid, more dense than water, and having a less power of capillary ascent than it, never- theless forming the stronger current, or current of endosmosis, whilst the water opposed to this fluid forms the iveukcr current, or counter-cur- rent of exosmosis. This is in opposition to all I had observed before; and the theory I had raised on the different capacities of capillary ascent possessed by two opposed fluids is con- sequently shaken, or at all events proved to be no longer generally applicable. What may be the cause of this new phenomenon ? Do animal membranes give passage more readily through their meshes to solutions of oxalic acid than to water ? This point I sought to determine by the following experiments. The filtration of a fluid, by virtue of its gra- vity, through a porous lamina, the capillary canals of which are very minute, is not readily appreciable, unless the inferior or outer surface of this porous plate is kept plunged in or moistened by the same fluid. It is in this way only that the filtration of fluids through animal membranes, the texture of which is dense (a piece of bladder for example,) becomes appre- ciable. It is essential that the inferior aspect of the membrane be bathed with the same fluid as that which rests on its superior aspect, in order that no foreign cause modify its filtration. We know in fact that the heterogeneousness of two fluids, by producing endosmosis, would completely mask the effects of simple filtration. Would I, then, try the filtration of water through a membrane, I apply this membrane to an en- dosmometer, which I fill with water to a certain height in the tube of the instrument; I next apply the lower surface of this membrane to the surface of a body of water placed below it. The water contained in the endosmometer filters through the membrane and mingles with the water in the vessel below; the amount of this filtration in a given time is indicated by the fall of the column in the graduated tube of the instrument. Would I essay comparatively the filtration of any watery solution, I place this solution in the same endosmometer, and taking care to keep the exterior of the membranous part of the instrument in contact with a solution of the same nature, situated below it, I observe the degree to which the depression of the co- lumn in the tube takes place in a space of time equal to that which was taken by the filtration of the water. It is necessary to begin by proving the filtration of water; after this the filtration of the watery solution may be tried; but it is always to be borne in mind that the