336 Other instances of this condition of the urinary apparatus are recorded by other writers,* and in particular Meckel has related a case in which it was conjoined with several other very remarkable deviations.f Urinary deposits.—It is no slight confirma- tory proof of the secretion of urine by the foetus, that urinary deposits have been discovered in the kidneys, ureters, and bladder. Brendelius mentions two cases, in one of which a child only two days old, and in the other one of eight days old, passed calculi before death; and calculi were also found in their bladders. J Loeseke found a calculus in the kidney of a new-born child.§ Hoffman relates the case of a German princess who was afflicted with renal calculus, and gave birth to a daughter, who from the hour of birth suffered excru- ciating pain when passing water; the child died when three weeks old, and on examin- ing the body a calculus as large as a peach kernel was found in the bladder.|| Orfila saw two cases in which there were calculi in the bladder and in the kidneys at birth.If Premature developcment of teeth. — It is hardly necessary to remark that at an early period of foetal existence the teeth begin to be developed, and it is equally a matter of com- mon observation that they do not in general emerge from their alveoli and pass through the gums until several months afterbirth. But many instances have been observed in which some of them have been found developed and projecting above the gums at birth. I have before me at this moment four teeth of this kind taken from the gums of the only two children of a patient of mine; in each child the two middle incisors of the lower jaw were found projecting at birth, and in each instance it was found necessary to extract them after a few days, in consequence of their cut- ting the child's tongue and preventing it from sucking. Louis XIV. and Mirabeau are well-known instances of this premature developement of teeth, and many other cases are recorded by different authors; for several references see Graetzer.** This abnormal condition of the teeth has been frequently found accompanying certain deformities of the face, especially hare-lip and cleft palate. Intestinal worms.—However repugnant to our ideas of probability the existence of worms in the intestines of the foetus in utero may at * See Billard, Maladies dea Enfans Nouveaux- nes, &c. p. 431 et seq. ; Ollivier d'Angers. Archiv. Gen. de Med. t. xv. p. 371 ; Mr. Wilson, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xix. p. 248.; Ruysch, Sandifort, Wrisberg, Chaussier, and Vrolik have described such cases. t Journ. Complem. des Sciences Med. t. xiii. p. 335. % Program, de Calcnl. Vesic. et ceteris Natal.; also Obs. Anat. Dec. iii. ob. 1. § Obs. Anat. Chir. Med. p. 39. || Dissert, inaug. de morbis foetus in utero ma- terno, Hals Magdeb. 1702. 1 Lecons de Med. Leg. Paris, 1828, t.i. p. 297. ** Die Krankheiten des Fcetus, p. 141. first sight appear, too many instances of the fact have been observed by authors of credit to allow of any doubt remaining on the subject; I must, however, add that no case of the kind has come under my own observation. So far back as the writings of Hippocrates, we have an account of a tapeworm found in a foetus ; and it seems very probable that in the instance mentioned by Hufejand,* in which he found a tapeworm thirty ells long in a child of six months old, the animal must have existed in the child before birth. Kerkringiusf found in a foetus of six months and a half, whose abdomen was much enlarged, worms of the kind usually met with in children (ascaris lumbricoidesor vermi- cularis). DolffiusJ speaks of a dead-born child in whose intestines he found a knot of worms; and similar observations have been made by Schroeter and others. According to Roederer and Wagner the whipworm (trichuris) was found in a case in which the fcetus partici- pated in the disease (morbus mucosus), under which the mother was labouring at the time. Other instances are noticed by Brendel,§ Bloch,|| Rudolphi,H and Graetzer.** Imperforate anus.— Cases of imperforate anus, of the ordinary kind, are too numerous and too well known to require any particular observation; but this imperfection has been occasionally accompanied by other peculiarities deserving to be noticed; one or two are, therefore, subjoined in addition to the full account of congenital malformations of this part given in the article Anus. Dr Steel has recently recorded the particu- lars of a case of a new-born infant, who was observed, one or two days after birth, to have feculent matter, mingled with the urine, dis- charged by the urethra. The parts behind the scrotum were perfectly natural in every respect, except the want of an anus, of which there was not the slightest vestige; the spot where it should have been was smooth, and of a uni- form colour with the adjacent parts; the sphincter muscle was evidently wanting, and there was nothing to indicate an accumulation of faeces in the vicinity. For the first three or four weeks the child continued fretful, and was evidently declining in vigour and growth ; but from that period to a short time before its decease it apparently suffered but little, nor did its growth or strength seem to be at all impeded. It was born on the 13th of April, and in the latter part of the ensuing March its bowels became obstinately obstructed, the scrotum enlarged, and became extremely tender; and on the 30th of the same month it died. On dissection, two apple-seeds of a large • Journal Bd. 18, st. i. p. 3, quoted by Brem- ser; Traite des Vers intestinaux, p. 181. t Specilegium Anatomicum, Amstel. 1670, obs. 79, p. 154. % Encyclop. Med. lib. vi. cap. 10, p. 1011. \ Pallas, dissert, de inf. viv. p. 59. II Preisschrift iiber die Erzeugung Eingeweide- wurmer, Berlin, 1782, p. 38. f Entozoa i. p. 387 ; Pallas, p. 43. ** Die Krankheiten des fcetus, Breslau, 1837, p. 107.