DIGESTION. 25 Among these, one which is the subject of daily observation is the panary, or that by which dough is converted into bread, a change which appears to come strictly under the definition, as a spontaneous action among the elementary constituents of the body, by which a substance is produced, essentially different from the one from which it was composed. Now we are disposed to think that the same principle will apply to the conversion of aliment into chyme, and that it is little more than a difference in the mode of expression, whether we say that digestion depends upon chemical action gene- rally, or upon that peculiar kind of chemical action which has been termed fermentation. The foregoing remarks apply immediately to the production of chyme, and it still remains for us to consider whether the same mode of reasoning can be applied to the further conver- sion of chyme into chyle. And it must be confessed that this part of our subject presents us with new difficulties, and that the analogy, which in the former case was imperfect, is apparently still more so, when we apply it to . the action of cliylification. Here we have a chemical change in the constituents, without the intervention of any assignable agent, at- tended with the production of a new substance, in consequence, as far as we can judge, of the spontaneous action of the elements upon each other, and with the separation of the substance thus formed from the remainder of the mass. But although the operation may be somewhat more complicated, and although we may find it less easy to assign an efficient cause for each step of the process, there will be found nothing contrary to the recognized effects of chemical affinity. And with respect to the question, how far these effects should be referred to the specific action of fermentation, we may remark that the result of the proper fermentative pro- cesses is to form a new product, and to sepa- rate the product thus formed from the residuary mass. Upon the whole therefore we may con- clude, that although there are many points in the chemical theory of digestion that are still unexplained and require to be further investi- gated, yet that we have no facts which directly oppose it, while -the difficulties which we feel on certain points would appear to be princi- pally owing to the imperfect state of our know- ledge on the subject. V. Peculiar affections of the digestive or- gans.—We now proceed, in the last place, to offer some remarks on certain affections of the stomach and its appendages, which are only indirectly connected with the function of diges- tion. Of these the most important are hunger, thirst, and nausea; we shall consider in suc- cession the causes of each of them, and the relation which they bear to the animal economy in general. Hunger is a peculiar perception experienced in the stomach, depending on the want of food. Its final cause is obvious, but respecting its efficient cause there has been considerable difference of opinion among physiologists, some referring it to a mechanical, others to a chemical action, while by a third set of writers it is referred exclusively to a peculiar condition of the nervous system. Before we enter into the respective merits of these opinions it will be necessary to remark concerning the feeling excited by hunger, that it is one of a specific nature, as essentially different from the mere perception of touch, as the sense of sight is from that of mechanical pressure made on the ball of the eye. In physiological language the stomach may be regarded as one of the organs of sense, in the same way with the eye and the ear; i. e. a part furnished with a spe- cific apparatus for producing specific impres- sions on a set of nerves appropriated to it, which convey to the mind certain perceptions, and which, by habit or by instinct, we connect with certain conditions of the organ. In most cases we are able to point out distinctly the nature of the agent which produces these per- ceptions, as light when applied to the eye, and the undulations of the air to the ear; in the particular case of the stomach we are not able to point out any corresponding agent of this description, and in so far the analogy between the stomach and the organs of sense must be considered as defective. The mechanical physiologists ascribed hun- ger to the friction of the different parts of the internal membrane of the stomach on each other, an opinion which, although sanctioned to a certain extent by Haller,* must be aban- doned, whether we regard the anatomical structure of the part, which shows that such friction is incompatible with its rounded form, and the disposition of its muscular fibres, or the nature of the sensation itself, which is specifically different from that produced by pressure, or any species of mechanical impulse on the surface of the body. Nor can the hy- pothesis be maintained, which supposes that the action of the gastric juice, by its tendency to decompose organized substances, exercises a degree of this eroding quality on the internal coat of the stomach, and thus produces the uneasy sensation. But in this hypothesis the great distinction, which has been so frequently referred to, between living and dead matter as to the action of the gastric juice is disregarded; besides that from every analogy which we pos- sess, it might be presumed that a substance so mild and apparently so little active as the gas- tric juice, could not produce effects, which must be attributed to a body possessed of highly acid or noxious qualities. And it may be fur- ther remarked, that in cases of the most pro- tracted privation of food, and where death has occurred after the most severe pangs of hunger, nothing like erosion of the stomach has been observed, and that conversely, in those in- stances where this effect has been produced after death, we have no reason to suppose that it was in any degree caused by the deficiency of food, or had been preceded by hunger. From what has been stated above it may be inferred that the view which we feel disposed to take of the efficient cause of hunger is to regard it as a specific perception, occasioned * Prim. Lin. § 36'8 ; El. Phys. xix. 2, 12.