FEMORAL ARTERY. 243 At the termination of its third stage the artery passes into the ham and there receives the name of popliteal: it enters the popliteal region through an elliptical aperture situate to the inside of the femur at the junction of its middle and inferior thirds, and upon a plane with its posterior face, the longer diameter of which corresponds to the course of the artery, and which is circumscribed by the lower mar- gin of the united tendons of the adductor longus and the adductor magnus above, by the connection between the tendon of the adductor magnus and that of the vastus interims below ; by the tendon of the adductor magnus inter- nally, and by that of the vastus internus exter- nally : in passing through, the artery carries with it a prolongation of the femoral sheath, by which the popliteal vessels become invested and connected. Varieties.—The superficial femoral artery sel- dom presents a variation from itsaccustomed dis- position,so much so that it may almost be held to be uniform in this respect: however two forms of deviation have been observed, rare in occur- rence, but of great importance in a practical point of view. Two instances of the first ab- normal arrangement are recorded, one of which occurred to Sir Charles Bell, and has been pub- lished by him in Anderson's Quarterly Journal for the year 1826: the second is preserved in the Museum of the College of Surgeons, and has been described in the fourth volume of the Dublin Hospital Reports by Dr. Houston, Conservator to the Museum. In these cases the femoral artery divided into two vessels of nearly equal size, which pursued the usual course of the artery side by side and very close together, not, however, in contact, but contained in distinct compartments of the sheath and separated by a septum : hence the existence of the second artery might in operation easily pass unobserved, it not being brought into view by opening the sheath of the other. One was also larger than the other, and situate internal and on a plane posterior to it. In Bell's case the discovery was the consequence of the un- fortunate event of an operation for popliteal aneurism ; the operation was performed in the middle third of the thigh. The pulsation of the aneurism, which was arrested on the appli- cation of the ligature, returned after an interval of some seconds, and became nearly as distinct as before : it ceased again upon the third day, but the patient was carried off on the sixth day by an erysipelatous inflammation of the thigh. On examination after death, it was ascertained that the disposition, which has been described, was present, and that but one of the two vessels had been tied. The second form of deviation is a high bifurcation into the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries: of this an instance* has been recorded by Sandifort, in which the division took place immediately below Poupart's ligament; and Portalf states that the crural artery has been seen to divide into two large branches shortly • Green on the Varieties in the Arterial System, and Sandifort, Observ. Anat. Pathol, iv. 97. t Anatomie Medicale, t. iii. p. 326. after its escape from the abdomen, and then there were two popliteal arteries: he further states that among individuals, in which the brachial artery was bifurcated higher than usual, the crural artery was so also in a remarkable proportion.* A division of the femoral artery into two trunks of equal size, running parallel and so near together, that they might be conveniently included in one ligature, is recorded by Gooch in the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1 775, it being the third instance in amputations of the thigh, in which he had observed such a lasus natur<E in the arterial system ; but it is not mentioned whether they were instances of the first or of the second kind of variety : he himself, whether from examination or from in- ference, appears to have concluded that both trunks were prolonged into the lower part of the limb. Those deviations have been accounted repe- titions of similar irregularities in the brachial artery, than which, however, they are far less frequent. It is a matter to be regretted that neither in the case of Bell, nor in that of Houston, has any account been given of the disposition of the artery of the upper extremi- ties or of the other thigh. Branches of the femoral artery. — The branches given off" by the femoral artery are numerous; but the trunk of the vessel being itself intended for the supply of the leg and foot, the branches which it gives to the thigh are, with the exception of one intended speci- ally for the nutrition of that part, inconsider- able in size. The artery gives branches to the integuments of the abdomen, to the glands and other structures in the groin, to the external organs of generation, to the muscles in the vicinity of which it passes, to the inner side of the knee; and, lastly, it gives the large branch, adverted to, for the supply of the thigh, and by which those inosculations with other arteries are formed, by means of which chiefly an in- terruption in the course of the main vessel is compensated. Those which have received names are five, viz. 1. the superficial epigas- tric ; 2. the superficial or external pudic ; 3. the superficial anterior iliac; 4. the profunda; and 5. the superficial superior internal articular arteries. Of those the first four arise from the artery within its first stage ; the epigastric, iliac, and pudic being given off immediately or at a very short distance below Poupart's ligament; and the profunda at a greater although a variable distance from that part. 1. The superficial epigastric artery (artire sous-cutante abdorninale, Cloquet; inguinale, Chaussier;) ordinarily arises from the front of the femoral, immediately below Poupart's liga- ment. Sometimes it is given off from a branch common to it and either one or both the ex- ternal pudics; or it may proceed from the pro- funda.-f It first comes forward through the fascia lata, and then ascends over Poupart's • Ibid. p. 239. t Boyer, m 2