140 ENTOZOA. are separated in the greater part of their extent by a septum : see fig. 84, J] g, which shows them in transverse section. They contain a prodigious quantity of ova, and adhere by their outer surfaces very firmly to the muscular parietes of the body. The dorsal ovary opens into the ventral one by an oblique valvular aperture about an inch distant from the extremity of the proboscis, anterior to which the common cavity extends forwards between the lateral lemnisci, and terminates by a conical canal {i, fig. 83), which is attached to the posterior portion of the pro- boscis. The two ovaries terminate in a dif- ferent manner posteriorly, the dorsal one end- ing in a cul-de-sac, the ventral becoming continued in a slender oviduct (k), which opens by an extremely minute pore at the caudal extremity of the body (/). The tissue of the ovaries is remarkable for its trans- parency and apparent delicacy, but it pos- sesses a moderate degree of resistance. The generative organs in the Nematoidea are upon the whole more simple than in the Acanthocephala. The testis in each of the genera is a single tube, but differs in its mode and place of ter- mination, and the modifications of the intro- mittent part of the male apparatus have afforded good generic characters. Genitale masculum, spiculum simplex, is the phrase employed by Rudolphi in the formula of the genus Filaria, and this appears to be founded on an observation made on the Filaria jiapillosa, in which he once saw a slender spicu- lum projecting from near the apex of the tail. According to the recent observations of Dr. Leblond,* the male-duct in the Filaria papil- Fig. 94. Penis of Ascaris lumbricoides. * " Quelqucs Materiaux pour servir a l'Histoirc dcs Filaircs ct Strongles, 8vo. Paris, 1836." losa terminates at the anterior extremity of the body close to the mouth. From this aperture the slender duct, after a slight con- tortion, is continued straight down the body to a dilated elongated sac, which represents the testis. In the Ascaris lumbricoides the penis {a, fig. 94) projects from the anterior part of the anus in the form of a slender, conical, slightly curved process, at the extremity of which a minute pore may be observed with the aid of the micro- scope. The base of the penis (b) communicates with a seminal reservoir, and is attached to several muscular fibres, destined for its re- traction and protrusion : the reservoir is about an inch in length, and gradually enlarges as it advances forwards: the testis or seminal tube is continued from the middle of the anterior truncated extremity of the reservoir; it pre- sents the form of a long, slender, cylindrical, whitish-coloured tube, extends to the anterior third of the body, forming numerous convo- lutions and loops about the intestine, and its attenuated extremity adheres intimately to the nutrient vessels of the dorsal region of the body. The total length of the seminiferous tube in an ordinary sized Ascaris lumbricoides is from two feet and a half to three feet. Its contents, when examined with a high micro- scopic power, consist of a transparent viscous fluid, in which float an innumerable quantity of round white globules, much smaller than the ova in the corresponding tubes of the female. In the genus Trichocephalus the fila- mentary testis is convoluted around the intes- tine in the enlarged posterior part of the body. The intromittent organ in the Trichocephalus dispar is inclosed in a distinct sheath, which is everted together with the penis, and then presents the form of an elongated cone (c, Jig. 69), adhering by its apex to the enlarged anal extremity of the body, and having the simple filiform spiculum or penis {d,fig. 69) projecting from the middle of its base. In the Strongylus gigas the bursa or sheath of the penis terminates the posterior extremity of the body, and is a cutaneous production, of a round, enlarged, truncated form, with the spiculum projecting from its centre, as at B, fig. 71. In other species of Strongylus, as in the Strongylus inflexus, the bursa penis is bifid, and in the Strongylus armatus it is divided into four lobes: the obvious functions of these appendages, as of the lateral alaeform cuta- neous productions which characterize the Phy- salopterte and Spiropterg, is to embrace the vulva of the female, and ensure an effective intromission and impregnation of the ova. In the genus Cucullanus, and in most of the smaller species of Ascaris, the intromittent organ consists of a double spiculum. This is also the case in the Syngamus tra- chealis, the parasitic worm before alluded to as infesting the trachea of the common fowl, and occasioning the disease termed the ' Gapes.' In this species the male individual appears as a branch from the body of the female. The testis begins near the middle of the oesophagus by a slender blind extremity, and winds round