FIBRES OF THE HEART. 628 layer arises chiefly from the pulmonary artery, PP ; it first forms the pulmonary channel, p, and then expands into a layer which crosses obliquely over the apicial channel, associated with fibres derived from one of the carnea? columns. The basial portion of this layer which crosses over the auricular channel, can- not often be separated from the fibres of its superjacent band, the fibres of the musculi pectinati being intricately interwoven with them. When this layer is replaced, its lower loose edge applies itself to the anterior boun- dary, a b, of this cavity, and is lined with its internal proper membrane. Of the three layers composing the proper wall of this ventricle, two, the middle and inner layers/, are confined at the edge of the septum, forming thereby the lateral boundary of this cavity. The boundary of the right ventricle.—It is true that every part of the internal surface of this chamber contributes in forming its boundary. But, as this cavity is formed chiefly by the splitting of the mass of fibres into layers and by their re-union, it is clear that unless the layers so separated were well secured at their points of junction, their separation would pro- gressively increase, and the cavity enlarge to a fatal extent by the repeated dilatations to which it is subjected. The mode of union which secures this lateral boundary merits therefore particular notice. As the lateral boundary corresponds to the edge of the septum, it admits of the same division into anterior and posterior. The anterior boundary being formed by the splitting of the layers, and the posterior by their re-union, their respective modes of construction are not precisely similar. The anterior boun- dary is principally formed by a certain set of fibres winding and reflecting upon themselves, as shewn in fig. 281. The basial part of this boundary, a b, is formed of fibres a, from the aorta a a, winding over the pulmonary channel of fibres p, in contributing to form the band Cpcaa. The fibres of this channel also con- tribute to form this part of the boundary, as is represented in fig. 278. The apicial part of this boundary is obviously constructed by the fibres acc which form the right layer of the septum being prolonged into the extended band, which on being replaced occasions them to be doubled upon themselves in passing over the apicial channel in association with the fibres of this band. The posterior boundary is constructed by the re-union of the fibres which pass in front of the cavity with others which pass behind it, and by the attachment of some of the fibres at the base to the aorta. The basial half of this boundary being formed by the conjunction of the under fibres of the basial band Cpcaaa, fig. 282, with a fasciculus of fibres, c, emerging from the middle layer of the septum, and with another fasciculus of fibres, a, jig. 278, arising from the aorta, aa. That part of the boundary contiguous to the base is greatly strengthened by the outer fibres of the basial band being attached to the aorta at its posterior aspect. And the apicial half of the posterior boundary being formed by the conjunction of the prin- cipal part of the internal layers of fibres which cross obliquely the cavity of the right ventricle with the chief part of the fibres of the middle layer of the septum as they emerge at its pos- terior edge, where they freely decussate. In fig. 281 the internal layer of fibres, pc, is seen crossing the cavity obliquely towards the apicial part of the posterior boundary, and in fig. 282 their conjunction with the fibres which emerge from the septum is seen forming a firm union. But the lateral boundary is rendered doubly secure by the curious circumstance of the coronary vessels, deeply penetrating the sub- stance of the heart along the entire edge of the septum, stitching down, as it were, just on the outside of the boundary, all the fibres which form it. The conical form of the heart.—The only point now remaining for consideration is the conical form of the heart. This form admits of the following explanation. Along the central cavity of the left ventricle are placed the two carneee columnar, the length of which is equal to the lower three-fourths of the length of the axis of this cavity. The fibres of these two bodies radiate, as represented in fig. 278 ; and the radiated fibres wind round the axis closely upon them, as is seen in fig. 280. By this radiation, instead of all the fibres passing longitudinally, which would have preserved these bodies in a state of equal thickness throughout their length, they are progressively parting with their fibres, retaining but a few, which, by their longitudinal course, reach the apex; consequently these columns gradually diminish, becoming pyramidal, and forming together an inverted cone; and as the fibres in well-formed hearts wind closely round these columns, the entire ventricle gently assumes the form of a cone. And although the right ventricle is, as it were, appended to the left, yet it is not so connected to it as to destroy the conical form, but, on the contrary, in such a manner as to form a concave parabolic section of a cone which adapts itself to the gentle cone of the left ventricle. The two ventricles thus united assume the form of the more rapid cone of the heart. Construction of the auricles.—For the pur- pose of ascertaining the mode in which the fibres form the auricles, large hearts, as those of bullocks and horses, should be selected. Not- withstanding the muscularity of the auricles is very much greater in large than in small hearts, yet the plan is the same in both, although less developed in the latter. The fibres of the auricles arise chiefly from the tendinous margins of the annulus venosus and annulus arteriosus; they ascend interiorly, and arrange themselves into several columns, which give off branches. Some of the branches form a simple communication between two of the trunk-columns, but most of them subramify, by which means the interstices are filled in. In small hearts the columns are not only more slender, but more numerous and in- terlaced ; in these, the interstices in many places are not filled in, the internal and external proper membranes being in contact, and thus