318 FCETUS. of many others ; and that very year cutting up a large lemon, I found another, small, but yet a perfect lemon in it, which had also a yellow rind." Many other instances of anomalies resulting from cohesion and intus-susception,* might be referred to, but they will find their place with more propriety under the article Monstrosity. Mislocation of the germ during its growth and development is well known to be produc- tive of serious consequences, not only to the foetus, but unfortunately involves great danger to the mother also, as in those instances in which it has been developed in the ovary,f the Fallopian tube, the cavity of the abdomen, or in the substance of the uterus constituting in- terstitial pregnancy. J Atrophy.—A very common occurrence to the foetus in utero is atrophy, or a complete arrest of growth from disease attacking its en- velopes, especially the placenta or cord; in which case, a deficient and unhealthy supply of nutrition is furnished to the child, which either perishes completely or has its develop- ment retarded to such a degree, as not to pre- sent dimensions or characters corresponding to perhaps half the period that has really elapsed since conception; as happened in the follow- ing case: a lady who menstruated in the last week of July, began about the middle of August to exhibit unequivocal symptoms of pregnancy, which proceeded regularly till the middle of October, when indications of threat- ened abortion appeared, with pain, and the re- peated expulsion of large coagula and sub- stances of various appearances. After this, the previously existing symptoms of pregnancy en- tirely disappeared, and it was supposed that miscarriage had occurred and that the ovum had escaped, unnoticed, amidst the masses of coagula. The lady resumed her ordinary habits and went into society as usual, without expe- riencing any uneasiness or unhealthy symptom, except irregular uterine discharges, which were supposed to be menstrual: so matters proceed- ed until the 7th January, when, after a long drive, she was seized with periodical pains ac- companied by smart uterine haemorrhage, in consequence of which I was sent for. I found the os uteri open and an ovum partly protruded through it, this I succeeded in disengaging and bringing away; on examination it presented the general appearances as to size, form, and growth of the foetus, of an ovum of less than two months, but the placenta was as large and as much formed as it should be at three months, and was moreover quite unhealthy, being throughout affected with what is usually called the tubercular state of that organ ; the foetus seemed perfectly healthy, but very small; and the umbilical cord was only about half an inch in length, much hypertrophied, being sud- denly enlarged on leaving the placenta, to three * See l)ublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. iv. p. 294, and as before note f- t See Dub. Med. Journ. vol. ii. p. 195. % See a full account of this subject in Memoires by Breschet and Geoffroy St. Hilaire; Repertoire Generate d'Anatomie, &c." No. 1. pp. 72, 75, 91. or four times its natural diameter, and a^ain as suddenly contracted almost to a thread, where it joined the abdomen of the foetus. See sub- joined sketch, of the natural size. Fig, 147. Cruveilhier* relates the particulars of a case in which the effect of disease of the placenta in producing atrophy of the foetus was strikingly shewn in twins at the sixth month, one of whom possessed the full development and characters belonging to that period, but the other, whose portion of the joined placentae was thin and un- vascular, presented a size corresponding to not more than three months, as shewn in Jig. 148. In another case, formerly under the writer's care, the foetus expelled at the ninth month had only grown during the first three.f Such cases as the above possess an interest and a demand on our attention of a very im- portant kind, as illustrative of the necessity for carefully examining into the state of the foetal appendages as to their healthy condition or otherwise, before we venture to pronounce an opinion on the time that has elapsed since con- ception, merely from the size or general ap- pearance of an ovum or foetus shewn to us ; for here we have, in one instance, an ovum, the size of which and that of the contained foetus, would indicate a period of two months' preg- nancy only, whereas Jive ?nonths had really elapsed from the time of conception, for the parties had not cohabited since the time of the threatened abortion; and in the other case an ovum of three months' growth is expelled nine months after conception. Now, in either case, had the husband happened to die, or to have * Anatomie Pathologique, liv. vi. pi. vi; see also Graetzer, die Krankheiten des foetus, p. 83. t See my Exposition of the Signs of Pregnancy, &c. pp. 96, 7, and also pp. 210, 11, and 259, 60, of same work.