EYE. 194 raising by this means the folds from the hyaloid membrane. It is difficult, however, to pre- serve the air in these folds for any length of time under water, because the tendency of the air to ascend causes the rupture of the membrane, by which it is allowed to escape. After the lens, included in its proper capsule, has been detached from its situation on the vitreous humour, the space it occupied pre- sents the appearance of a circular depression, surrounded by those productions of the hyaloid membrane of which I have just spoken; the vitreous humour remaining in every respect perfect, notwithstanding this abstraction of the lens." M. Ribes, in the Memoires de la Societe" Medicale d'Emulation for 1816, describes the ciliary processes of the vitreous humour as follows. " At the anterior part of the vitreous humour, and at a short distance from the cir- cumference of the crystalline, may be seen a ciliary body almost altogether similar to that of the choroid, and which has been named by anatomists corona ciliaris, but no writer has hitherto pointed out its structure, or the impor- tant office it appears to perform. Each of these processes has a margin adherent to the vitreous humour, and encroaches a little on the circumference of the lens. It appears to me impossible to ascertain whether the surfaces are reticulated, but they are villous. The free margin is obviously fringed, and presents nearly the variety of appearance observed in the fringes of ciliary processes (of the choroid) of different animals examined by me, except that the summits are black ; the interval which separates each process of the vitreous humour is a species of depressed transparent gutter. The black colour of the free margins and the transparency of the space which separates each ciliary process adorns the anterior part of the vitreous humour with a circle remarkable for its agreeable effect, and which has been com- pared to the disc of a radiated flower." Dr. Knox, in a communication made to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, at the same time that mine was made to the Medico-Chirurgical Society, describes the ciliary processes of the choroid as follows: " In whatever way, the membrane or assemblage of membranes pro- ceeds forwards to be inserted into the circum- ference of the capsule of the lens, forming in its passage numerous longitudinal folds, and small projecting fimbriated bodies, by which, in a natural state, the transparent humours are connected with the superjacent ciliary body (of the choroid); when examined with a good glass, these folds are remarkably distinct, and the whole bears the closest resemblance in its distribution to the true ciliary body and pro- cesses. I have, therefore, ventured to call them the internal or transparent ciliary body, or the ciliary body of the hyaloid membrane, in contradistinction to that of the choroid." It must not be forgotten that these ciliary pro- cesses of the hyaloid membrane were described by Monro in his Treatise on the Eye, and are strongly marked in a coarsely executed plate. He considered that the retina was continued to the lens, and describes its course under the ciliary processes of the choroid; thus " on ex- amining the retina with still greater accuracy, it appears that it has exactly the same number of folds or doublings that the choroid coat has; for it enters double between the ciliary pro- cesses, nearly in the same way that the pia mater enters into the coats of the brain. The furrows and doublings of the retina, which, if we are to use the favourite term ciliary, may be called its ciliary processes, make an impres- sion on the anterior part of the vitreous hu- mour." The structure alluded to was also observed by Hovius nearly an hundred years before. From the preceding observations respecting the ciliary processes of the vitreous humour, it may justly be inferred that the ciliary pro- cesses of the choroid, and these ciliary pro- cesses of the vitreous humour, are of the same nature, differing only in those of the choroid receiving red blood, while those of the vitreous humour receive a transparent fluid by their bloodvessels. The adaptation of these two circles of folds to each other appears to be a most beautiful example of mechanical con- struction occurring in soft parts: it is a species of dovetailing of the one structure into the other, by which an intimate union is secured between one part of considerable strength and another of extreme delicacy. A connexion equally perfect is established between the ex- ternal surface of the choroid at its margin, and the corresponding margin of the sclerotic, by means of the ciliary ligament; in fact, with- out these two provisions of ciliary ligament and ciliary processes, and their application between the sclerotic, choroid, and vitreous humour, the chambers of the eye must be imperfectly constructed, and the optical me- chanism of the organ defective. It is the mechanical bond between these dissimilar parts which perfects the chamber of aqueous humour, and prevents that fluid from escaping, either between the sclerotic and choroid, or between the choroid and vitreous humour. Of the crystalline leiis.—It has been al- ready stated, that there is a double convex lens within the sphere of the eye, at a short distance behind the external lens or cornea. This is the crystalline lens or crystalline humour, which gives additional convergence to the rays of light transmitted through the pupil. It is placed in a depression, formed for its reception on the anterior, compressed, or truncated portion of the vitreous humour, where that body approaches the back of the iris, and constitutes part of the boundaries of the posterior chamber of the aqueous humour. In this depression it adheres firmly to the hya- loid membrane, and from the vessels of that structure derives its nutriment. This double convex lens does not present the same curvature on both surfaces, the anterior being less curved than the posterior, in the ratio of about 4 to 3- Attempts have been made to determine with accuracy the nature of these curvatures, first by Petit, and subsequently by Wintringham, Chossat, and others. The re-