GLAND. 491 roost complicated glands he relied solely on his vascular injections, to the exclusion of the evidence afforded by the much more satisfactory researches of comparative and developmental anatomy. If, as Professor Miiller has ob- served, Ruysch had carefully examined his injected organs with the microscope, he would have found that between the most delicate plexuses of the bloodvessels there is always an additional substance destitute of vessels; although these organs, when seen by the naked eye, appear to be stained in every direction with the coloured injection.* But even ad- mitting what frequently happens from a too forcible injection, that the matter thrown into the arteries is found in the ducts, this does not prove that the small bloodvessels are con- tinuous with the excretory canals; for after the sanguiferous vessels are tilled, they easily become ruptured, and so allow their contents to escape into the ducts. It may further be objected, that in all the glandular organs which have been carefully inspected the commence- ments of the excretory ducts are larger than the least arteries ;f indeed, Ruysch's own account of this imaginary continuity is very vague, and the plates designed to illustrate his theory, especially that of the kidney, are any thing but satisfactory. As Ruysch did not employ the microscope, it is impossible he could have seen that continuity which he so confidently described; indeed, as Haller remarks,^ 'l's difficult, or rather as we should say impossible, to demonstrate, with the aid of the most powerful lens, the connexion of the last arteries with the coats of the ducts. Not only did Ruysch adopt a most in- sufficient mode in prosecuting his inquiries, but he assumed as a fact what was in reality a mere hypothesis, that secretion can only take place from the open mouths or orifices of the secerning arteries. The only point, therefore, which he discussed was, whether the passage of the arteries into the excretory ducts takes place gradually and insensibly, or suddenly and by the intervention of a follicle; for it never occurred to the anatomists of those times, or even to Haller and his contemporaries, that canals closed at their end by cul-de-sac, and without open arterial mouths, could secrete.§ * Loc. cit. p. 8, § 4. t Diameter of secreting canals. Line Parotid gland . . . 0 0099 (Weber). Kidney .... 0-0166 (Meckel). Ditto 0-0180 (Weber). Testis .... 0 0564 (Miiller). Ditto 0 0648 (Lauth). Liver (in rabbits) . . 0 0140 (Miiller). Diameter of capillary bloodvessels. Line Line Parotid . . 0 0030 to 0-0039 (Weber). Kidney . . 0 0044 to 0 0069 (Miiller). Testis . . . 0 0030 to 0 0035 (Weber). Burdach Physiol. Fiinfter Band. p. 38. For measurements in otber glands, see Miiller De Gland. Struct, p. 112; Valentin Handb. der En- twickelungs-geschichte, p. 535 et seq. } El. Phy. t. ii. p. 378. $ The existence of open mouths in the arteries of the serous membranes, where they are generally But the true opinions of Malpighi did not refer to the exact mode of termination pos- sessed by the arteries; nor did he imagine that any particular machine or follicle was interposed between the arteries and the ducts : his observations were rather directed to the more important circumstances relative to the disposition, formation, and extent of the true secreting canals. In concluding these remarks on the hypo- thesis of Malpighi, it is due to the character of that illustrious cultivator of anatomical sci- ence to state that his views are highly phi- losophic, and in a general manner correct— that they are supported by numerous obser- vations made on the glands of the lower ani- mals, as well as on the development of the liver during incubation—and that he had thus the sagacity to adopt the mode, which expe- rience has shown is alone capable of resolving this difficult question. It would be superfluous to enter into a de- tailed account of the opinions advanced by later anatomists, as they are for the most part simply modifications of the hypothesis either of Malpighi or of Ruysch. A few general observations will therefore suffice. Ferrein has the merit of being the first wri- ter who pointed out in a more distinct manner than had been done by Malpighi, the great importance of what are erroneously called the excretory ducts, but which constitute, as we have already shown, the true secerning struc- ture, lie remarks * that the cortical part of the kidney is composed of a collection of white cylindrical tubes, variously folded on them- selves (canales corticales, or ducts of Ferrein,) and he thought he had seen the same tubes in the liver. The serpentine cortical canals have been seen in birds by Galvani, to be filled with cretaceous urine after the ligature of the ureter. Although the researches of Ferrein are very important, yet they want that support from comparative anatomy, by which means alone they could have been made subservient to esta- blish any general principles. To Rolando belongs the honour of having demonstrated the mode in which the glands are developed from the alimentary canal. By carefully conducted observations on the in- cubated egg, he discovered that each of these organs in the first instance consists of an ele- vation or tubercle of the intestine, which sub- sequently becomes hollowed and forms a canal directly continuous with that of the intestine. He also distinctly announced what has since been demonstrated in all its details, that the lungs are formed, like the glands, by a pushing out of the upper end of the intestinal tube; and he further describes the mode in which the bronchi and their subdivisions are deve- loped. The error of those writers who contend called exhalants, has never been proved ; on the contrary, on examining, with a powerful micro- scope, the circulation of the peritoneum in rabbits, 1 have repeatedly observed that the small arteries, after ramifying in a very complicated manner, become distinctly continuous with the little veins. * Mem. de l'Acad. Roy. des Sc. 1749, p. 492.