390 GASTEROPODA. article Circulation, Jig. 321, vol. i. p. 649,) they form a circle around the anus. In Trito- nia they are disposed in two rows along the sides of the animal, extending from one extre- mity of the body to the other. In Scyllaa they consist of little tufts irregularly disseminated over the surface of the back and upon the fleshy alae projecting therefrom. In Glaucus they form on each side three large and palmated fins, being used as agents of progression as well as instruments for the purification of the blood. In (Eolis the branchiae assume the shape of long riband-like lamella? disposed in imbricated rows; but whatever their form their structure is essentially the same, each tuft or lamella containing the ramifications of the branchial vessels, and effecting the oxygenisation of the blood by the extent of surface which they ex- pose to the action of the surrounding water. In the Infero-brunchiata the respiratory tufts or plates are arranged around the circumference of the body, lodged in a deep groove between the margin of the foot and the edge of the man- tle which covers the back. The Tectibran- chiata have the branchiae covered by a little fold or operculum formed by a duplicature of the skin, and generally containing a horny or calcareous plate ; beneath this are seen the re- spiratory leaflets arranged in rows upon the two sides of a semi-crescentic membrane : their structure in Aplysia is represented in Jig. 191. Each branchial lamella (a, a) divides dichoto- mously into smaller plates until the divisions become extremely minute; the ramifications of the arteries and veins within them being dis- tributed to each are spread over an extent of surface adequate to the efficient aeration of the circulating fluid which they contain. The principal trunk of the branchial artery (c) runs along the concave margin of the crescentic membrane, while the large venous trunk occu- pies the opposite or convex border; the veins from the branchiae all terminate in this great vein, their orifices being disposed in circles, as seen at d. The Pectinibranchiate order includes that large family of aquatic Gasteropods which are enclosed in shells, and the arrangement of the whole of their breathing apparatus is adapted to the respiration of w.iter. The branchiae re- semble in structure those of fishes, and are pec- tinated or composed of parallel laminae disposed like the beards of a feather, and attached in two or three rows to the roof of a large cavity placed under the integuments of the back ; or else in some rare cases, as in the Valvata cristata, the branchia is single, resembling a pen, and floats externally.* A very material difference is ob- servable between the truly aquatic species and the pulmonary Gasteropods which inhabit the water, but breathe air; in the latter, which are compelled to come to the surface to respire, the aperture leading into the pulmonary cavity is small and furnished with a powerful sphincter, so that the air taken in is retained at the plea- * For a figure of the branchial chamber of the Buccinum undatum, and an account of the ciliary movements which have been observed in many orders of Gasteropoda to be connected with respi- ration, the reader is referred to the article ClLIA. sure of the animal; but in those which are pro- vided with pectinated branchiae, the entrance to the branchial chamber is a wide fissure, always allowing free ingress and egress to the circum- ambient fluid. Many genera of this order are provided with a special apparatus called the sy- phon, for conveying the water freely into the re- spiratory chamber; this is a semi-canal formed by a fold of the right side of the mantle, and lodged in a groove projecting from the mouth of the shell; through this channel the water at all times has free admission to the gills. The respiratory organs of the Scutibranchiata re- semble those of the last order, and are contained in a similar cavity, to which the water is con- stantly admitted ; but in the Cyclobrancltiata the branchiae consist of a series of lamellae placed external to the body, around the border of the mantle, by the edge of which they are overlapped. Respiration is effected in the Pulmonary Gasteropoda, whether they be terrestrial or aquatic, by an apparatus fitted for breathing the air of the atmosphere; the lung or pulmo-bran- chia, as we may call this singular organ, con- sists of a large cavity placed beneath the man- tle, over the surface of which the vessels return- ing the blood from the system spread in beau- tiful ramifications, and from these the pulmo- nary veins take their origin, collecting the blood which has been exposed to the action of the air, and conveying it to the heart. A large orifice admits the air freely into this chamber, the walls of which alternately contracting, draw in and expel it at regular intervals by an action precisely similar to that of the human dia- phragm. In the Slugs (Limax) the cavity is small, but the network of the vessels spreads over its whole surface. In the Snail (Helix), on the contrary, the organ is much larger, but its floor only is covered with the respiratory ramifications. In Jig. 322, of the article Cir- culation, vol. i. p. 649, a diagram is given of this structure, and in Jig. 190, (>«, w,) the details of its arrangement are more minutely shewn; yet even in the beautiful drawing of Cuvier, from which our plate is copied, the minute divisions of this superb plexus are but inadequately shewn. The order which has been established by Ferussac, under the name of Pulmonalia operculatu, is composed of individuals classed by Cuvier among the Pectinibranchiata, to which in every cir- cumstance, with the exception of the struc- ture of the respiratory system, they are closely allied; these, however, breathe the air in a cavity analogous to that which we have just described, only differing in the position and nature of the aperture leading to it, which here, instead of being a rounded orifice in the margin of the collar, opened and closed at the will of the animal, is a large fissure placed above the head, exactly as in the Pectinibranchiate order. Organs of circulation.—Having thus de- scribed the different arrangements of the branchiae, we shall be enabled more readily to investigate those modifications in the dis- position of the organs subservient to the cir- culation of the blood which are dependent thereupon. Throughout the whole class, with