824 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. cartilage still remained, the ligamentum teres was entirely broken, and the capsular ligament partially torn through. The pectinalis muscle and adductor brevis had been lacerated, but were united by tendon. The psoas muscle and iliacus interims, the glutafi and pyriformis, were all upon the stretch. e. Cases of unusual dislocations.— In Guy's Hospital Reports we find the account of two cases of dislocation of the head of the femur upwards and outwards towards the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. In the first of these cases, detailed by Mr. Morgan, the affected leg (the left) was short- ened to the extent of at least two inches, the foot was excessively everted, so much so as almost to give the toes a direction backwards. The injured limb had a tendency to cross that of the opposite side, so that the heel was thrown over the instep of the opposite foot; neverthe- less when the feet were placed side by side, they remained in that position. The limb was susceptible of all the natural motions to some extent, with the exception of rotation, but the man complained of great pain when under ex- amination. The projection of the trochanter major was entirely lost, whilst the luxated head of the bone might be felt under Poupart's liga- ment, just below and to the inner side of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and it apparently lay between the anterior and inferior spinous process of the ilium, and the junction of this last bone with the pubes; it thus rested upon the brim of the pelvis, and projected upwards towards the abdomen; the femoral artery was not displaced in this dislo- cation, but could be traced taking its usual course, and consequently situated to the inner side of the displaced bone. In this case a speedy reduction of the dislo- cated bone was effected, but in the second case I have alluded to, the bone was left unreduced for years. We are indebted for the publication of the whole case, accompanied with the dis- section, to Mr. Bransby Cooper, who tells us that the preparation which illustrates the acci- dent the patient suffered from, was presented to Sir Astley Cooper, by his friend Mr. Old- know of Nottingham, and the bones are pre- served in the museum of Guy's Hospital. The subject of the accident was a lunatic, aged 28, and as far as we can learn from the detail of the case given, his symptoms were very much those which Mr. Morgan's patient presented before the dislocation was reduced.* Upon dissection it was found that the old acetabulum was deprived of articular cartilage, and was in part filled up by bony deposit, so as to be rendered wholly unfit for the reception of the head of the femur. The new acetabulum was nearly directly above the original cavity, and was bounded on the outside by the two anterior spinous processes, and on the inside by the line of junction of the ilium and the hori- zontal branch of the pubes, that is to say, by the ileo-pubal eminence. The form of the new * Guy's Hospital Reports, January, 1836, p. 99. cavity for the reception of the head of the femur was very like the natural acetabulum, but not quite of equal dimensions ; it is protected above by a growth of bone which overlapped the head of the femur, and must have formed the princi- pal point of support of that bone. The inferior part of the new acetabulum was the most defi- cient. The trochanter major sunk partly into the old acetabulum, and polished points on both the old and new acetabulum indicated where the head of the femur and trochanter major played in the various motions this imperfect joint enjoyed. We are not informed how the muscles were altered from their normal state, but may infer that most of them were more or less atrophied ; it is probable, however, that both the obturator externus and internus were put much upon the stretch, and retained the bone more or less downwards. It would have been interesting to have learned the precise situation of the rectus femoris, tensor vaginae, and sartorius, psoas, and iliacus, but we can easily imagine that the latter were much shortened, and that they were raised up from the pubes by the dislocated bone, the tendon of the rectus must have been thrown outwards over the rest of the femur and trochanter major. The head of the femur was altered from its original figure, so as to be adapted to the new acetabulum, portions of it being diminished where it did not come in con- tact with the new cavity, so that its spheroidal figure was lost. The periosteum of the femur, as well as of the new acetabulum, assisted in forming the new capsular ligament. The arti- cular cartilage of the head of the femur has been absorbed, and the same porcelain-like concretion, as is seen in the acetabulum, is provided at corresponding points. From the form of the articulating surfaces, and the fixed position of the femur, both at the head and the trochanter major, it will be observed that no other motion than flexion could be permitted, and even that motion, from the closeness of the attachment at the trochanter, but to a limited extent. Luxation of the head of the femur down- wards and backwards. — This luxation may be considered as a very rare accident. When the last edition of Sir A. Cooper's work on Fractures and Luxations was published, the baronet had not seen such an accident, as he remarked, " it is to be remembered that there is no such accident as a dislocation of the hip downwards and backwards." Dupuytren says, " I have only twice or thrice seen this luxation downwards and backwards. The limb was then twisted inwards, a little elongated, and it was impossible to adjust it to its ordinary place and position, without reducing the luxation, which once accomplished, the dis- placement did not a second time recur." My friend Mr. Wormald, assistant-surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, has published an account of an accident of this kind in the Medical Gazette, June 28, 1837, and the preparation, which shews the relative position of the head of the dislocated bone, &c. and the acetabulum,