544 ORGAN OF HEARING. aqueduct of Fallopius, and opens on the upper surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone outside and in front of the hiatus of Fal- lopius. This canal, first accurately described by Arnold,* and called by him the tympanic canal, cana/is tympanicus, is traversed by the nerve of Jacobson, which establishes a com- munication betwixt the glosso-pharyngeal and the otic ganglion. Besides this groove there are several others corresponding to the branches of the tympanic plexus of nerves. The opening below and behind the promon- tory, the fenestra rotunda or cochlear fenestra, leads, by a short infundibuliform canal directed obliquely inwards, into the lower or tympanic scala of the cochlea. Looking into this very short canal sideways, a groove is remarked en- circling the margin of its inner orifice. This groove receives the circumference of the secon- dary membrane of the tympanum. The opening above the promontory, the fe- nestra ovalis or vestibular fenestra, has already been described in speaking of the vestibule. All that we have to add here is that it is sur- rounded externally close to its edge by a small channel or groove. Above the vestibular fenestra and running in much the same direction as its long diameter is a round elongated ridge, within which is the aqueduct of Fallopius. Below this ridge and behind the vestibular fenestra is a small mam- millary or pyramidal eminence, called the pyra- mid, eminentia papillaris s. protuberantia py- ramidalis. The apex of the pyramid, directed forwards and a little outwards, presents an opening leading into a canal, which extends backwards and downwards, then becom.ng vertical lies in front of the lower part of the aqueduct of Fallopius. In the thin lamina of bone which separates the two canals there is an aperture. The muscle of the stapes is lodged in the canal, and its tendon issues by the aperture in the apex, of the pyramid. About one-sixth of an inch behind the pyra- mid and close to the groove for the insertion of the circumference of the membrana tympani is the opening by which the chorda tympani, accompanied by an artery, enters the tym- panum. In front and a little above the vestibular fenestra, and on the anterior extremity of the prominence of the aqueduct of Fallopius, is a tubular projection with a wide open mouth directed outwards. This tubular projection, •which is generally found incomplete in the dry bone, in consequence of being composed of a very thin brittle substance, is what has been called the cochlearij'orm process. It is the continuation, bent at nearly a right angle outwards, of the canal or half canal, about half an inch in length, and destined for the recep- tion of the internal muscle of the malleus, which lies above the osseous part of the Eusta- chian tube, and is separated from it merely by * Ueber den Canalis tympanicus und mastoideus, in Tiedemann's, Treviranus, und Gmelin's Zeit- schrift fur die Physiologie, B. iv. Heft 2, No. xxi. p. 284. a thin lamina of bone, the continuation of that forming the tubular projection. Fig. 248. The inner wall of tfie tympanum. a. Promontory; b. vestibular fenestra; c. coch- lear fenestra; d. pyramid; e. eminence of the aqueduct of Fallopius ; f. cochleariform process and half canal for the internal muscle of the mal- leus. The outer wall of the tympanum is formed by the membrana tympani and the inner ex- tremity of the osseous part of the external au- ditory passage, in which the membrana tympani is framed. Osseous portion of the auditory passage.— This leads from the outside of the temporal bone. In front of it lies the glenoid cavity, and behind it is the mastoid process. It is about three-quarters of an inch long. Its course is from without inwards and from behind forwards, at first a little upwards and then downwards. It is wider at either extre- mity than in its middle. A cross section of the passage presents an elliptical orifice, the long diameter of which is directed from behind forwards and from below upwards. Its extre- mities are cut obliquely in such a way that in- ternally the anterior wall exceeds the posterior, whereas at the outer orifice the posterior wall exceeds the anterior in length. The margin of the outer orifice is rough and irregular to give attachment to the cartilaginous portion of the passage and to the auricle. Just within the inner orifice the osseous auditory passage is grooved all round except at its upper part. This groove is for the reception of the circumference of the membrana tympani. In the foetus the osseous portion of the audi- tory passage is a mere ring of bone, the tym- panic ring, incomplete at the upper part where the groove in the adult is wanting. The tym- panic ring serves as a frame for the membrana tympani. On the inner surface of the superior extremity of the anterior cms of this incomplete ring of bone there is a broad superficial groove, into which the processus gracilis of the malleus is received. By-and-bye the tympanic ring is united to the temporal bone, and in process of time the part outside the groove grows outwards so as to form that plate of bone, thick behind, thin in front, rolled together in the form of an incom- plete tube, which in the adult composes the lower, the anterior, and the posterior walls of the osseous auditory passage.