821 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. cannot be rotated inwards, nor flexed with- out causing acute suffering. The inguinal region is the seat of the principal pains, which however from this point extend along the thigh, and are the consequence of the stretching which the anterior crural nerve necessarily suffers as it is raised up at the neck of the bone. The striking criterion of this dislocation is, that the head of the thigh-bone may be dis- tinctly felt upon the pubes, above the level of Poupart's ligament, and it feels as a hard ball, which is readily perceived to move by bending the thigh-bone. The femoral artery has been usually felt pulsating along the inner side of the head of the bone, but Mr. Smith presented lately to the Pathological Society the cast of a ease of this luxation, in which he had noticed that the femoral artery ran in a tortuous manner directly across the head of the dislo- cated bone. The great trochanter is drawn upwards and forwards, so as to be situated in the trajet of a line which would pass from the anterior infe- rior spine of the ilium, downwards and for- wards. In a case of a dislocation of this spe- cies which was left a long time unreduced, the motion of the knee backwards and forwards was fully twelve inches. The following case was admitted into Jervis Street Hospital, under the care of Mr. O'Keilly, during the time I was one of the surgeons to that institution, and as it seemed to me the best marked case of the kind I had ever witnessed, I beg here to lay it before the reader from my case-book. Case.—P. Bryan, a powerful man, aged 37, was admitted into Jervis Street Infirmary, Uec. 4, 1828. He was intoxicated when the accident which produced the luxation occurred, and consequently was unable to give any idea as to how the injury was produced. As the patient lay on his back in bed the affected limb appeared to lie parallel to its fellow, but then there was an eversion of the whole limb, and the foot of course turned out- wards. One circumstance particularly caught our observation, viz. the preternaturally arched appearance which the upper third of the shaft of the femur presented ; the adductor muscles were full and prominent; there was an unusual prominence underneath Poupart's ligament; the anterior superior spinous process appeared retired. On making more minute examination it was found that the eversion of the foot was perma- nent, and we were surprised to find that there was but little difference between the length of both limbs ; certainly the injured one was little more than half-an-inch shorter than the sound one. A considerable depression existed where formerly the trochanter major lay ; this process of bone was very evident, and could be readily felt about two inches below and somewhat anterior to the anterior superior spinous pro- cess of the ilium, and about the same distance internal to it a well-marked prominence in the inguinal region shewed the new situation which the head of the femur occupied ; along its inner side were seen and felt the pulsations of the femoral artery. On communicating a motion of rotation outwards, the head of the bone could be easily felt under the soft parts ; the nates was flattened; the femur was but little moveable with respect to the pelvis, and any attempt to draw the thigh backwards caused great pain to the patient: to flex it was impossible. A motion of rotation outwards could be communicated to the dislocated femur, but no rotation inwards was permitted. Ad- duction of the limb was admissible, even to permit the knees to touch. When the patient stood up, he naturally threw his weight on the sound limb, and the affected one was flexed slightly at the knee, and the heel touched the inside of the opposite foot, as in the " first position" of dancers. The reduction of the dislocation was effected in the ordinary method ; indeed the rules laid down by Sir. A. Cooper were fully adopted, and in due time succeeded. Anatomical characters of this luxation.— Sir A. Cooper gives us an account of the dis- section he made of one of these luxations of the femur on the pubes, which had been a long time unreduced; he found the original ace- tabulum partially filled by bone, and in part occupied by the trochanter major, and both are much altered in form ; the capsular ligament is extensively lacerated, and the ligamentum teres broken. The head of the thigh-bone had torn up Poupart's ligament, so as to be admitted between it and the pubes (jig. 325). The head Fig. 325. Luxation on the pubes.* and neck of the bone were thrown into a position under the iliacus interims and psoas muscles, the tendons of which, in passing to their in- sertion over the neck of the bone, were elevated by it and put on the stretch. The crural nerve passed on the fore-part of the neck of the bone, * From Sir A. Cooper, loc. cit. plate v.