519 MUSCLES OF THE HAND. of them, whether voluntary or communicated to them, are painful; and in either case com- monly a crepitus, produced by the contact of rough surfaces, is perceived both by patient and physician when making the examination. When this disease exists in the hand to this amount, it will almost invariably be found that the distressing complaint has also extensively engaged most of the other articulations. When we make an anatomical examination of the hand of those who have died with the condition of the joints of the fingers above described, we find that the synovial fluid is somewhat thicker than usual, and deficient in quantity. In some of the anchylosed joints we observe a species of fibro-cellular or ligamentous union of the bones; almost all the joints are de- prived of their cartilaginous incrustation, which seems as it were to have been worn away by friction ; the porous structure of the root of the phalanges is often exposed, and in some cases hollowed out, to accommodate the enlarged head of the metacarpal bone ; a cup is formed in the base of the phalanx which is lined with a porcelainous deposit, while around this little cup an exuberant growth of new bone of a looser texture is thrown out. In the removal of the cartilage without suppuration—in the substitution for it of a porcelain-like deposit, and in the surrounding exuberance of new bone, we find this disease of nodosity of the joints of the fingers resembling accurately the analogous affection of the other joints, which has been supposed to be the slow effects of chronic rheumatism.-—See Elbow, Knee, Hip, Abnormal Anatomy of. III. congenital malformations of the HAND. Children are occasionally bom with one or two fingers more than the natural number. The supernumerary finger almost invariably is found to be an imperfect vegetation, growing from the ulnar side of the hand, and in general the deformity is found to exist on both hands. Examples, however, have been, though rarely, seen of a sixth finger parallel to the other fin- gers, and properly supported by a sixth meta- carpal bone. It frequently happens that children are brought into the world with their fingers united together. This union may be complete, or the connexion may be loose by means of the skin. It is known that up to the second or third month of intra-uterine life an interdigital membrane exists, and the abnormal condition of the fin- gers we are now considering is nothing but a persistence of the early condition of the fingers in the foetal state. It seems pretty well proved that these congenital defects are very frequently hereditary, and that when- ever the fingers are the seat of them, the toes are similarly affected. The whole hand, or one or more of the fin- gers may suffer in utero what has been denomi- nated spontaneous amputation, and the stump will present peculiarities already noticed.—See Foetus, fig. 155, 159. ( R. Adams.) HAND, MUSCLES OF THE. (Human Anatomy.) The varied and beautiful move- ments of which the hand is capable are effected by muscles belonging to separate and distinct regions,-—namely, one set of muscles which are the proper and intrinsic muscles of the hand itself, and a second set, which are continued into the dorsal or palmar region of the hand from the posterior or anterior surface of the fore-arm. In the present article it is proposed to describe the intrinsic muscles of the hand; but in con- sidering the actions of that member or of any of its segments, it will be necessary to notice how far the second set of muscles contribute to or aid in their production. The proper or intrinsic muscles of the hand may be divided into—1, those on the palmar; 2, those on the dorsal surface. I. The muscles of the palm are fifteen in all. For convenience of description they may be classified into, a, those of the thumb, or external palmar region, constituting the thenar eminence; b, those of the little finger, or in- ternal palmar region, forming the hi/pothenar eminence; c, those that occupy the hollow of the hand, or the middle palmar region. a. Muscles of the external palmar region.— The muscles of this region, all of which belong to the thumb, are four. 1. Abductor polltcis manus* (scaphoido- phalangien, Cruveilh ) short, flat, broader above than below; it arises from the anterior surface of the scaphoid and trapezium, the superior, anterior, and external part of the anterior annu- lar ligament, and generally from a prolongation of the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi, by aponeurotic and fleshy fibres. It proceeds outwards and downwards to be inserted into the outer edge of the upper extremity of the first phalanx of the thumb. Sometimes the two origins of this muscle are not incorporated tor some distance, giving the appearance of two muscles. Relations.-—It is covered by the skin and external palmar aponeurosis. It covers the opponens, a few fibres of which appear to its radial side, running in a transverse direction. It is separated by a thin cellular line from the short flexor, which is on the same plane. The obvious action of this muscle is to draw the thumb forwards and inwards, thus sepa- rating it from the fingers. 2. Flexor ossis metacarpi, or opponens polli- cis (trapezo-metacarpien, Cruveilh.), of a rhomboidal form ; it arises from the trapezium, and from the fore part of the anterior annular ligament, anterior to the sheath for the radial flexor of the wrist, by long aponeurotic fibres; and posteriorly from a septum between it and the short flexor. From these attachments the fleshy fibres radiate downwards and outwards, being so much the shorter the higher and the more transverse they are. They terminate by * Soemmering and Albinus divide tins into two distinct muscles, the former giving them the names ahductores breves polltcis manus interior et exterior ; the latter calls the internal portion abductor brevis alter.