FCETUS. 326 was there the slightest appearance of disease or even discolouration of any of the parts, but the feet were, like the hands, imperfectly deve- loped and mis-shapen. The mother was about twenty-five years of age, and was at the time labouring under fever, but had been previously in perfectly good health, and had not met with any accident either in the way of bodily injury or mental agitation. About four years after the occurrence of the case just detailed, another was brought under my observation through the kindness of Dr. J. Labatt. A healthy woman gave birth to a still-born child in the eighth month of gestation; it was affected with an umbilical hernia of great size, formed by the protrusion of the liver, stomach, and small intestines, but the state of the limbs is the point of interest connected with our inquiry: both were mis-shapen, and, as hap- pened in Mr. Watkinson's case, the left exhibits this remarkable pathological lesion, and exactly in the same situation. Just above the ankle there is a deep depression all around the limb, and sinking to such a depth as to leave only the bones and skin unaffected by it, the diameter of the undivided part being less than half an inch, while that of the leg, just above the depression, is an inch and a quarter. The appearance of the groove is exactly such as would be made by tying a string very tight round the plump limb of a child, and in my opinion could not have been produced in any other way. The part had been very much handled and examined by several before I saw it, so that I was not surprised at not finding any ligature on the limb, but the mark of it was so distinct in the bottom of the depression as to leave no doubt of its previous existence there having produced the constriction of the part. It is important also to observe, as con- Fig. 156. firmatory of this view of this matter, that the integuments are not at all broken or divided, but are merely carried inwards with the con- stricting agent, so that, had the separation of the limb been completed, each stump would appear skinned over, except at the ends of the bones, and so present the appearance of being partially haded, as described by both Watkin- son and Chaussier: the foot was a little swollen and somewhat discoloured; it seemed turgid with blood, but was without any appearance . whatever of gangrene. In both the instances here before us, from the condition of the limbs and the impossibility of the parts under the ligatures continuing their growth under such circumstances, it could scarcely be made subject of doubt that had the children continued to live and grow, the parts of the limbs below the constriction would have separated, and so undergone spontaneous am- putation. The next case to which my attention was drawn was one very politely communicated to me by Dr. Tyson West, of Alford, Lincolnshire, in consequence of his becoming acquainted with my account of this matter. Dr. West attended a patient at the Westminster Lying-in Hospital in 1805, who, after a natural and easy labour, gave birth to a still-born child which had but one leg, the other limb exhibit- ing positive proof of having been spontaneously amputated some time before, the stump being partially healed and nicely rounded, about an inch anrl a half below the knee: the unhealed portion of the stump was about this size. /**S^ He accounts for the amputated portion / A \ of the limb not being found in conse-i WJ B quence of the occurrence of a mostN^/ dangerous accident which threw all the parties concerned into great alarm and confusion; but he adds that it struck him at the time, and he is still of the same opinion, that the division of the limb was effected by some stricture round it* When first announcing the discovery of this fact, in 1832,f I stated that the origin of these ligatures, and still more their application so as to stricture the limbs, were circumstances on which I did not feel prepared to pronounce an opinion with any reasonable probability of its being satisfactory, and I am sorry that five years' additional consideration of the matter has not enabled me to solve the difficulty com- pletely ; but I am happy to find that, so far as I have ventured to point out a proximate cause of this singular phenomenon, my views have been assented to, and my explanation adopted, by all who have subsequently ex- pressed their opinions on the subject, and especially by Professor Gurlt, of the ltoyal School of Medicine at Berlin, author of a work on pathological anatomy, (whose investi- gations render him peculiarly qualified to form an opinion on such a subject,) who has written a commentary on my original paper,J in which he adopts, as correct, my explanation of this curious fact, and, in addition, undertakes to account for the formation and application of the ligatures. He commences his observations by rejecting in toto the notion of the agency of gangrene: his words are: " To explain this most re- * A notice of this case was inserted by Dr. West in the Lond. Med. and Surg. Jomn. for 1832, vol. i. p. 741. t See Dublin Medical Journal, vol. i. p. 140. i See Medicinische Zeitung, 1833, N. 3, p. 13.