ORGAN OF HEARING. ear, it will widen and straighten the auditory passage. The retractor or posterior muscles of the ear, (M. retrahentes auriculam, s. posteriores auri- cula.) These ordinarily consist of three bundles, sometimes only two, which, taking their origin from the mastoid process, run forwards to the cartilage of the ear, into winch they are inserted at the eminence on the back of the concha, corresponding to the commencement of the helix on the other side. In drawing the eai backwaids, these muscles Will dilate and flatten the concha, and widen the entrance to the auditory passage. The anterior muscle of the ear, ( M.uttrahens auriculam s. anterior auricula.,) arises from the zygomatic process, and, in its course backwards to the ear, gradually contracts, untd it ends in a short tendon, which is inserted into the anterior surlace of the helix, immediately above the tragus. It draws the ear forwards. Fig. 255. The cartilage of the left auricle from behind, and the extrinsic muscles ( diminished). ( From Soemmer- ing). a. m. attollens auriculam ; b. m. anterior auri- culae ; c. d. two m. retrahentes auriculam. Intrinsic muscles of the ear.-—These muscles are very delicate and weak, little adapted to produce any sensible change in the form of the ear. Five are admitted :— The larger muscle of the helix, (M. helicis major,) arises from the lower and anterior part of the helix, on the outer and anterior surface of which it ascends for about three quarters of an inch, and then is inserted into the helix above the point where the ear becomes free from its attachment to the head. "The smaller muscle of the helix, (M. helicis minor.)—This lies farther down and more be- hind than the preceding. It begins at the place where the helix rises from the concha, and is inserted into the posterior margin of the ascend- ing portion of the helix. The muscle of the tragus, Cm. tragicus).—Of an oblong square form, this muscle covers the outer surface of the tragus, from the lower part to the upper margin of which its fibres run. The muscle of the antitrugus, (m. antitragi- cus).—The fibres of this muscle arise from the outer surface of the antitiagus, and are inserted by a small tendon to which they converge into the lower extremity of the anthehx. Fig. 256. The intrinsic muscles situated on the concave side of the auricle (diminished). (From Soemmering). The transverse muscle of the ear, (m. trans- versa auricula,) is situated on the back of the ear. It is composed of fasciculi not very dis- tinctly muscular, which run from the dorsum of the concha to the back of the anthelix, and the elevation which corresponds to the navicular fossa. Fig. 257. a. transversus mus- cle ; 6. helix; c. back of the concha ; d. tra- gus; e. fissure of San- torini. The back of the cartilage of the' external ear and the transversus muscle (diminished). ( From Soemmer- ing). B. 'The external auditory passage, (meatus au- ditorius externus s. porus acuslicus; Fr. Le. con- duit audit if ou uuriculaire; Germ. Der Gehor- gang.)—Like the Eustachian tube, the external auditory passage is composed of an osseous portion, and a portion partly cartilaginous and partly membraneous. The osseous portion has been already described as a part of the outer wall of the tympanum; the other portion comes to be noticed here as a continuation of the car- tilage of the auricle. The passage will then be considered as a whole. Cartilaginous and membraneous portion of the external auditory passage, meatus auditoriut cartilugineus-membranaceus. This portion of the auditory passage, about half an inch long, is formed in front and below by cartilage, above