793 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. stroyed by ulceration. Sometimes the purulent matter has been known to have escaped from the articulation by ulcerated openings in the capsule of the joint, and to have passed into the pelvis, and penetrated between the muscles. The fatty mass at the bottom of the acetabulum has been found swollen, inflamed, and covered with a membranous layer of lymph, at the same time in some of these cases the neigh- bouring periosteum has been found detached from the bone, which was redder than usual. These are appearances which have been noticed in those who have died of acute arthritic in- flammation, whether it may have arisen from diffuse inflammation or simple acute disease confined to the one articulation. In acute cases, actual dislocation of the bones, we be- lieve, has not been noticed, as the disease seldom arrives at its second or third stage under such circumstances, but the cartilage and synovial membranes have been altogether destroyed, and the porous structure of the bones has been ex- posed, digital depressions have been seen pro- duced by acute caries in the acetabulum and head of the femur. The bones have then pre- sented'a rough vascular surface, and in many cases lymph has been found to cover the con- vexity of the head of the thigh-bone and to line the acetabulum. The head of the femur some- times is but little altered, either as to form or position, but when the acetabulum is largely excavated by disease, the head of the thigh-bone will be found to be drawn by the muscles to its upper and back part. Even in acute arthri- tis coxa in the young subject, the epiphysis of the head of the femur has been found de- tached.* The ligamentum teres is generally absorbed early, and the capsular ligament is usually ulcerated in some one part, so that, on the post-mortem examination, the bones are found to be very moveable on each other. They are usually observed to be highly vascular, and some imagine the head of the femur is en- larged. Ilyperosteotic depositions or stalacti- form productions, which are very friable, exist around the diseased joint. 2. Chronic strumous arthritis coxa.—The scrofulous disease of the hip-joint is very gene- rally slow in its progress, and is seldom seen, except in persons who bear other evidences of the strumous diathesis; there are examples of it occurring in individuals who have passed the age of thirty years, though generally seen in those of more tender years. This affection of the joint, although slow and insidious in its attack, yet is attended with the usual pheno- mena of an inflammatory or sub-inflammatory action. Many of the writers who have de- scribed the " disease of the hip-joint," have assigned to it three periods or stages, as Ford has done, while succeeding authors have added to the description of the three stages of Ford, a period which they call the period of the inva- sion of the disease. In this their first stage, there is pain in the thigh, extending to the * See a preparation in the museum of the Col- lege of Surgeons, Dublin, presented by the lute Professor Todd. knee, which appears and disappears alternately; a marked weakness in the thigh, and a sense of feebleness in the whole limb; the gait is limp- ing, and some tension is felt in the groin. This period lasts sometimes but a few days, at other times many months. In the second period the limb is wasted, andapparently, though not really, elongated ; the trochanter is placed lower down, and is more outward than that of the opposile side; the buttock is flattened, and its fold is lower than natural; the patient's lameness is characteristic; he moves the affected limb round with a shuffling motion, the foot scraping the ground, and he sometimes assists the eleva- tion of the thigh with his hand. At this time the knee is painful, and not unfiequently a puffy swelling appears in it, both which cir- cumstances often too much attract the attention of patient and surgeon, and divert it from the true seat of the disease. The third period is characterized by a real shortening of the limb ; this is sometimes sudden, and the im- mediate consequence of caries of the brim of the acetabulum and luxation of the head of the femur upward and backward on the dorsum of theilium. The shortening of the limb, however, is more commonly gradual, and the consequence of the slow ulceration and widening of the ace- tabulum. It has of late been truly observed, that the luxation is not so common as generally ima- gined, but when it does occur, it usually takes place in the direction upwards and outwards ; when the fibrous capsule and other ligaments are destroyed by ulceration, the head of the femur escapes by the superior and posterior part of the acetabulum, and obeying the action of the glutei muscles, it glides from before backwards and without inwards upon the con- ' vex surface of the ilium ; the thigh is flexed, adducted, and turned with a strong rotation in- wards ; the great trochanter approaches the' crest of the ilium, the muscles are raised up by the head of the femur, and the buttock is rounded, and becomes very protuberant poste- riorly. Although this is the direction in which the luxation usually takes place, still it has been noticed to have occurred in a direction horizontally backwards towards the ischiatic notch (Earle). It has also been seen in the direction downwards and inwards towards the foramen ovale, in which case the limb is elon- gated and directed outwards. Still more rarely has it been thrown upwards and inwards on the horizontal ramus of the pubis. In one in- stance, says Brodie, I have seen the dislocation in the direction forwards, the head of the femur resting on the pubis, the knee and toes being turned outwards. It would be wrong, however, to suppose that a true dislocation of the head of the femur from the ulcerated acetabulum is a very com- mon occurrence; although all these cases, above alluded to, have been witnessed, we be- lieve very frequently the shortening of the limb in the third and fourth stage of the disease arises from ulceration and widening of the ace- tabulum and destruction of the head of the femur. The head of the femur sometimes sepa-