763 HERNIA. edge of the fascia lata or I ley's ligament, and posteriorly by its pubic portion : both externally and internally it is bounded by the junction of these two portions of fascia. Gimbernat's liga- ment, which is usually described as forming the internal boundary of the crural ring, rarely fills up more than half the space between the crest of the pubis and the femoral vein. This canal, as being composed of fascia, is firm, and un- yielding : it cannot be influenced by the actions of any muscle in the neighbourhood, nor even so much as is generally supposed by the posi- tion of the limb. It should follow from this constitution of parts that any hernia thus re- strained should forcibly compress the vein and artery before it suffered strangulation itself, and so it would if the protrusion had relation to this canal alone, and was not contained within its own proper portion of the funnel-shaped sheath already described. The neck of the sac of a femoral hernia, then, has behind it the fascia iliaca and the ligamento- cartilaginous material that covers the sharp edge of the linea ileo-pectinea : internally it has the junction of the fascia iliaca and transversalis, the attachment of the fascia lata to the linea ileo-pectinea, and Gimbernat's ligament; inter- nally it must also have the spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament in the female; anteriorly it has the fascia transversalis and Pouparl's ligament, and immediately above the neck and in close contact with it is the sper- matic cord, of course including the spermatic artery : externally is the membranous slip in- terposed between it and the femoral vein. The epigastric artery is also external to it, but although this vessel is somewhat irregular both in origin and position, yet the full breadth of the vein must be always interposed between it and the neck of the sac. But there is an irregular vascular distribution that must be borne in mind. In a great number of subjects (perhaps one out of every four or five) the obturator artery, instead of coming oft' from the internal iliac, arises by a common trunk along with the epigastric, which it soon leaves, and passing downwards and inwards crosses the superior aperture of the femoral canal before it dips into the pelvis to reach the obturator Foramen. In this course it sometimes passes the border of the canal posteriorly, but much more frequently in front; and in this latter case, if a hernia existed, the vessel would embrace two-thirds of the circle of the displaced peri- toneum close to and immediately above the neck. It appears, then, from these anatomical relations that in all subjects a considerable degree of danger may arise from too free and unguarded a use of the knife in operation—a danger that is necessarily enhanced in the male subject: indeed in consequence of the risk of haemorrhage Scarpa seemed disposed to trust to dilatation and laceration ot Poupart's ligament for relieving the stricture, and where these means were insufficient he recommended a new and particular direction to be given to the incision. But from caieful dissection and ex- amination of these parts I am disposed to believe there is always sufficient space to free a stricture without endangering either the sper- matic or the irregular obturator artery. It must be recollected that if the intestine is sufficiently liberated to permit the passage of gas through the immediate seat of the stricture, its return is perfectly practicable, and a very small incision will be sufficient to accomplish this. Now these vessels lie, not on the neck of the sac, but above it ; and there is quite space enough to set the stricture free without interfering with them : when they are wounded, it is in consequence of the introduction of the cutting edge of the bistoury too far within the stricture. When a portion of intestine has escaped through the femoral ring, (and by reason of the small size of the aperture hernia here are seldom large,) it lies at first within the crural canal, where it is restricted by the fascia lata, and its existence recognized with difficulty. Jt has happened that patients have perished from the incarceration of a small fold or knuckle of intestine without the circumstance ever having been discovered during life. But after it has passed the crescentic edge of Key's ligament, and is relieved from the pressure of the fascia, it comes forward, and if it increases farther, its direction is rather inwards and upwards, so that it may assume the position of an inguinal hernia to the extent of being mistaken for it. Having proceeded so far, the hernial sac has assumed somewhat of the form of an arch : it has passed, first downwards through the femoral canal, then forwards under the sharp edge of the fascia lata, either passing through the weak cellular portion of it or pushing it before, and then upwards and inwards in front. The hollow of this arch looks upwards, and is occupied by the crescentic edge of Hey's liga- ment. Perhaps this particular position of the hernia, as well as the extreme straitness and un- yielding nature of the crural canal, has con- tributed to the frequency of strangulation to which this form of hernia is liable. When a person stands erect and without exertion, Poupart's ligament forms nearly a direct line between the anterior superior spinous process of the ileum and the crest of the pubis, and all the fasciae connected to it are in their natural state and sufficiently relaxed ; but if the thigh is strongly extended or the body bent backward, the ligament then becomes tense and is arched backward toward the thigh. The effect of the general tension of the limb in this position would be to convert the arch formed by the hernia into an angle, against the hollow of which the edge of Hey's ligament would be firmly compressed, and a sufficient degree of resistance thus created to the return of the venous blood to produce a congested condition of the viscus. The operation of such a cause as this can hardly be considered as permanent, but the mischief once commenced is not easily controlled, and an intestine might soon be placed in such a condition as to render incar- ceration at the ring inevitable. The situations at which crural hernia may be strangulated have not been satisfactorily described, although there is no subject on which more anatomical labour has been bestowed. If