GANGLION. 372 nold ; in the second order are enumerated the thirty spinal ganglions and the ganglionic en- largement of the nervus vagus and glosso-pha- ryngeus; in the third division are included the ganglions of the sympathetic nerve. The former of these arrangements is objec- tionable, because offices are assigned to the ganglions the existence of which has not been ascertained ; and the latter is so far erroneous that in this classification the ganglion of the fifth pair is separated from the spinal, to which it is undoubtedly similar; whilst the ophthalmic and spheno-palatine are as incorrectly divided from the system of the sympathetic* In endeavouring to detect that which con- stitutes the essential difference among these numerous bodies, we ought to pay special attention to the character of the nerves which are attached to the ganglions. Taking this as the only rational guide, I should refer them to two classes. 1. Those which are placed on sentient nerves, comprising the Gasserian, the ganglion .of the glosso-pharyngeus, and the spinal ganglions The gangliform enlargement of the nervus vagus should be referred to this order, inasmuch as there can be little doubt, although this at present is not proved, that this nerve is compounded, like the spinal nerves, of motor and sentient fibrils, a surmise supported by the distribution of the vagus, and still more by the interesting discovery of my friend Mr. Solly, of the existence of certain motor fibrils in the exact part of the medulla oblon- gata, whence this nerve arises.f 2. Those which have connected with them both motor and sentient nerves, and are, as I believe, always in relation with contractile and sensitive structures: J those, namely, of the great sympathetic nerve, comprising the cer- vical, the dorsal, lumbar, and sacral, together with the cardiac, the semilunar and coeliac, also the ophthalmic, the spheno-palatine, the otic, submaxillary, and cavernous. These classes nearly correspond with the * The following is the classification of Mailer : 1. Ganglia of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, of the larger portion of the nervus trige- minus, of the nervus vagus, and ganglion jugulare nervi glosso-pharyngei. 2. Ganglia of the great sympathetic. 3. Ganglia which occur at the points of junction of the cerebro-spinal nerves with the branches of the sympathetic, comprising ganglion petrosum nervi glosso-pharyngei, intumescentia gangliformis nervi facialis, ganglion spheno-pala- tinum, ciliare, oticum (probably). To which should bo added ganglion submaxillare. Handbuch der Physiol, der Menschen. Erster Band. p. 588. t According to the present opinion, the whole of the fibres belonging to the nervus vagus enter into the ganglion; and Bischoff imagines that this nerve derives its motor portion from the spinal accessory. The intimate relations between these two nerves require further investigation. X It cannot be too often repeated that sensibility, or, to speak more correctly, the capability of being excited by the contact of a physical agent, may exist without being accompanied wiih conscious- ness : the inner surface of the heart, of the blood- vessels, and intestine are as capable of being ex- cited as the skin or the retina ; but the impressions which they receive are not usually perceived by the mind. simple and compound ganglions of Scarpa* and Meckel.f There are occasionally found ganglia on other nerves; thus, Mr. Swan X has noticed one on the posterior spinal nerve, where it is placed under the extensor tendons of the wrist. My friend Mr. Pilcher has also found in two subjects a gangliform enlargement on the internal nasal nerve, where it is lodged on the ethmoidal bone. It is necessary to remark that although the ganglia of the first class are placed on certain of those nerves which are commonly regarded as being subordinate simply to sensation, yet the highly important observations of Dr. M. Hall,§ which have, I conceive, opened an en- tirely new field in physiology, render it doubt- ful that those bodies are essential to the exer- cise of sensation. Organization.—Although the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic ganglia present some impor- tant peculiarities when contrasted with each other, particularly as regards the proportions of the grey and fibrous substances, still as both classes possess essentially the same struc- ture, they may with propriety be considered in a collective manner. Every ganglion contains two totally distinct substances which have a close relation to, and are, I believe, identical with the grey and fibrous matters, constituting the encephalon and other parts of the nervous system. It is true that the appearance of these bodies is in many respects dissimilar to that of the brain ; but at length it is universally admitted that differences in mere physical properties are unimportant, and do not constitute any test as to tlve essential structure of an organ. In the present instance the diversity may very readily be understood when the difference of situation is considered. The cerebral organ is enclosed in a cavity, the cranium, formed of some of the strongest bones of the skeleton, and hence, being effectually defended from the effects of motion and external pressure, all its parts are soft and delicate; whilst the ganglia, placed on bones which move on each other, slightly it is true, are exposed to external compression, and consequently a much firmer texture is required. It is for this reason that these bodies are invested in a dense fibrous capsule, which is to them what the cranium is to the encephalon, and which furnishes in addition a number of internal processes surrounding each fibril, and sustaining the spherical masses of grey matter. The difficulty of detecting the intimate texture is by these means greatly increased ; but as it is so similar to that of the cerebrum, it is desirable to examine the con- stituent parts according to the order observed in investigating that organ. I. Reddish grey matter.—The quantity of this substance, often called the peculiar matter of the ganglions, but which, as I have stated, * Anat. Annotat. liber primus. De nerv. gang, et plex. p 9. t Man. d'Anat. i:. i. ^231. i On the Nerves, pi. xxii. fig. 3. § Lcct. on the Nerv. Sys. 183b'.