386 INSECTA. * Newman, p. 9. i .Entomologist's Text-book, p. 236. Fig. 369. External superior and inferior surface of the head of Hydrous piceus. A, antenna ; a, occiput; b, epicranium ; c, ocn- ]i ; d, clypeus anterior ; e, labrum ; /, mandibles ; g, maxilla; h, its palpus; i, ligula; h, labial pal- pus mentum; m, submentum; n, gula; o, man- dibular ridge. trupida, its existence is indicated by a slightly elevated ridge. This suture divides the epi- cranium from the posterior portion of the cly- peus (d), the most conspicuous portion of the head. The proper boundaries of this part have been ascertained with tolerable precision in Coleoptera, but do not appear to have been traced correctly in some of the other orders, particularly in Ortlwptera. The clypeus or shield, in Coleoptera, is that broad cover of the anterior surface of the head, bounded poste- riorly by the epicranium and anteriorly by the labrum, with which it is freely articulated. It is the part called by Mr. Kirby the nose, and by Straus Durckheim chaperon. It appears originally to be formed of two portions, which we have called clypeus anterior and posterior, and which are completely united in some fami- lies, as in the Lamellicornes, without trace of their previous distinction, but in others with slight traces of their former separation, as in Hydrous, while both parts are distinctly articu- lated in some of the Dyticidce, in which its ante- rior portion appears to be moveable, and has pro- bably been mistaken for the whole clypeus, as has been the case in Orthoptera.* In some species the shield is curiously excavated, tuber- culated, or armed with a long horn, as in Copris, Ty ohaus, and Dynastes, (fig. 333,) oris minute and inconspicuous as in the Camthartda. The original division of the shield into two por- tions in Hydrous appears to be indicated by two rough excavations situated between the triangular suture, its posterior boundary, and the anterior lip. The labrum or upper lip (e) is the most anterior portion of the upper sur- face of the head, bounded only on its posterior margin by the clypeus. It is usually a narrow transverse piece which has been confounded by some writers, particularly by Fabricius, with the clypeus. In some families, Scarabaidw and Lucanidtt, it is very minute, but, as re- marked by Mr. Newman,* cannot be consi- dered to be in any case entirely wanting, as was supposed by Olivier. In those cases in which it appears to be absent it is concealed beneath a largely developed clypeus. In many families it is large and projecting, and often notched, as in the Carabida and Silphida. It is also very distinct in the water-beetles. It forms the anterior boundary of the mouth. The cornea: constitute a great portion of the fixed parts of the head. The principal of these (c), the corneas of the true or compound eyes, are situated on the lateral external surface of the cranium, bounding the basilar piece below, and the epicranium above. They are two large convex surfaces, generally of a nearly circular, but sometimes of a kidney-shaped form, divided into a great number of very minute facets, per- fectly distinct from each other, each of which is the proper cornea of a distinct eye. They are more or less numerous in different insects, amounting in some to no more than fifty in each compound eye, but in others to so many as thirty-six thousand. Thus Lyonet reckoned eleven thousand three hundred in the eye of the goat-moth, and Geoffroy more than thirty-six thousand six hundred in the eye of a butterfly. Each compound cornea is usually situated im- mediately behind the external angles of the triangular or epicranial suture, and is more or less protuberant in different species, as in Hydrous and its affinities. This is particularly the case in the ground-beetles, as noticed by Dalman,f especially in those which reside near water or in sandy situations, as the Cicindelida, &c.; and, as remarked by Mr. Westwood, these protuberant eyes occur mostly in insects of rapacious habits. But it must further be observed that they occur also in insects which are not of rapacious habits, but require for some other purpose an extended field of vision. This is the case with the males of many species, and most remarkably so in the male of Lampy- ris noctiluca, the common glow-worm, in which the cornea? cover almost the whole lateral and under surface of the head. This insect is well known to be attracted by the light of the female. The like occurs in the male of the hive-bee, and in that of some Diptera, as in the Empida, which seek their females, and are constantly found in copula connexos on the wing in the open air. Again, in the sun-beetles, Cetoniida, * Paper on the Nomenclature of the Parts of the Head in Insects, p. 18.