935 INSECTA. those of the larger animals in not being in- closed by aponeuroses, and in being formed of fibres which are always free, straight, and fre- quently are not connected with or arise from tendons. There is no instance, as Straus has correctly remarked, of a digastric muscle in insects. Each fibre is composed of a great number of very minute fibrillar, or fasciculi of fibrillar, into which the fibre may be easily torn, after it has been hardened for some time in spirits of wine. Professor Wagner has seen transverse stria? on the fibres of insects as on those of vertebrated animals, and we have also observed them very distinctly on the dorsal longitudinal fibres of Lucanus cervus, and more particularly on the fibres of the longitu- dinal muscles of the back, in the abdominal segments of the larva of Odonestis potatoria ; Professor Muller states that the voluntary mus- cles of insects are wholly constituted by these transversely striated fibres, each of which has a very delicate sheath, which can often be per- ceived forming a transparent border to the fibre.* Those fibres which are entirely with- out tendons are attached by their whole breadth either directly to the flat internal surface of the dermo-skeleton or to elevated ridges, which are intussuscepted portions of the tegument within the body, the apodemata of Audouin, of which the phragmata before described are examples. The tendons, or hard uncontractile ends of the muscles, like the phragmata, are formed by an elongation inwards of parts of the internal lamina of the dermo-skeleton.f They exist more generally in the perfect insect than in the larva, and in the muscles of the head of the larva than in other parts of the body. The cause of this appears explicable by the fact that there is a higher developed condition of body in the perfect insect than in the larva, and in the head of the latter than in other parts of its body. Distinct tendons exist most frequently in the muscles of the extremities and organs of manducation, as in the Lucanus cervus (Jig. 388, 2), in which a large flat tendon, of great strength, is attached to the external con- dyle of the mandible, and on each side of which the fibres that compose the great ex- tensor penniform muscle are inserted. Tendons exist also of great length in the legs of Orthop- tera (Jig. 409, a, b, c), and between the forked processes of the thoracic segments, and the margins of the coxa;. The muscles with ten- dons are arranged by Straus under two divi- sions : I first, the conical, in which the tendon is short and occupies the axis of the muscle, where it is expanded into a broad plate, unto which the fibres of the muscle, originating from a broad base, and converging to one point, are attached, and the tendon then proceeds alone to the point of insertion; second, the pyramidal, in which the tendon, as in the conical, is surrounded by short fibres, and is * Elements of Physiology, (translation,) partiv. p. 882. f Straus. X Op. cit. p. 14b". broad and divided into several lamina;; third, the pseudo-penniform, in which the fibres ori- ginate in a row, and, converging, are attached sometimes on one side, and sometimes on both sides of a long narrow tendon; fourth, the penniform, which differ from the last in the margin of the tendon being fibrous. Like the latter the fibres originate sometimes on one side only, and sometimes on both. Fifth, the compound, or those which consist of several muscles, each formed of two or more fibres, united by a tendon, and these tendons of two or more muscles united into one bundle; or in which the tendons of several bundles of muscles are united. Unto these five forms Burmeister has added a sixth, the cylindrical^ the tendon of which is a flat round plate, to which the fibres are attached on one side, and from which a process extends on the opposite to the point of insertion, as in the muscles of the wings. Audouin calls these tendons epi- dhnes, and regards them as processes of the thorax. The muscles of the larva present great uni- formity of size and distribution in every seg- ment, the motions of each of these divisions of the body being almost precisely similar. The differences which exist in the number, dis- tribution, and functions of the muscles, are to be sought for in the first four segments, which compose the head and thorax of the perfect insect. Thus, in the head of the larva there is a greater aggregation of muscles than in any other segment of its body, because a greater number of organs exist, and consequently require these additional muscles. The pre- sence of a greater number of organs in this than in the succeeding segments is readily ac- counted for, when we remember that the head is composed of several sub-segments, and that the appendages belonging to it are those of these originally distinct parts. But the situ- ations and the form of the muscles have become changed from those of the simple muscles of a segment, and some have become united to others. This may explain the cause of the greater complexity of the muscles of the head of the larva than of those of the other seg- ments, and why so few are simple like those of the abdominal regions, but, on the other hand, are frequently complicated, and end in tendons, and more or less resemble in form the muscles of Vertebrata. Hence the muscles of the mandibles are large and occupy the greater part of the lateral and posterior region of the cranium, the extensor muscles being attached to the lateral and posterior surface of the cavity, like the extensor muscles of the legs in the thoracic segments, and the flexor more internally to parts that correspond to the lamina squamosa in the head of the perfect insect, the analogies of which in the thoracic segments are the forked processes to which the flexor muscles of the legs are attached, like the corresponding muscles of the man- dibles on the head. The muscles of the three *_Manual of Entomology, (trans.) p. 249.