ABNORMAL CONDITION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 76 and ulna are, in their natural state, on an even line with each other. There is scarcely any interosseous interval, the bones seem so closely connected with each other. Indeed, from the inspec- tion of this preparation, we may justly infer that the fore-arm during life had remained much in a state of semiflexion on the arm, and of rigid pronation, and that the movement of supination was nearly impracticable. This defective formation, or atrophy of the capitu- lum and increased deve- lopement of the trochlea of the humerus, which was so formed to ac- commodate itself to the unusual breadth acquired by the coronoid process and the whole of the ulna, must not be con- sidered unprecedented. We find, by referring to the beautiful work of Sandifort, (the Museum Anatomicum, table ciii. fig. 3,) a case similar to the above delineated (fig. 45). In referring to it, the author states that the bones of the fore-arm were anchylosed, that the form of the ca pitulum was the head of the radius ■was luxated completely backwards, and that the ulna alone remained in articulation with the hu- meri s; the parallelism between these two cases will be still more fully seen, when, speaking of the lower articular extre- mity of the humerus, we . ; Congenital luxation of the lost, tnat Tadius backlvarfom Fig. 45. ■ ' IP 111 k it find that he says," Figura A ergocapituliperiil.Rotula /llOHMHB|>t unica, sed major forma- I^J^^|' tur;" and of the ulna, " insignem acquisivit am- plitudinem et totam infe- , r. . , Vonqemtal malformation norem ossis humeri par- »f HgU hJumerm _ tem admittere potuit. trochlea enlarged—no In examining very capitulum. lately the splendid col- lection of morbid specimens contained in the Museum of Guy's Hospital, the writer's attention was caught by observing a pre- paration of the radius and ulna, belonging, he is certain, to the same class of diseases now under consideration, namely, congenital luxations of the radius. In this preparation there is a very oblique relative position of the bones of the fore-arm to each other. While their carpal extremities are exactly upon a line with each other below, the neck of the radius is elongated upwards, and the head of this bone is displaced much backwards, and is situated behind and below the outer condyle of the humerus, and reaches nearly to the summit of the olecranon. The coronoid pro- cess and great sigmoid cavity of the ulna have acquired much breadth, and what is remark- able in this case, and in which it differs from any other we have seen, is, that a process of caries had been going on in the articulation. Cruveilhier has given four drawings of two cases of complete luxation backward of the radius, which he however does not consider to be congenital. Nor is it in our power abso- lutely to prove that they are specimens of congenital luxations backwards, although we feel persuaded that all the cases we have re- ferred to, these inclusive, are very curious specimens of this congenital deformity of the radio-humeral articulation. The previous history of all the cases we have collected is totally unknown; it is re- corded of them all, that the arm was re- markable for its deficient development, that the fore-arm was in a state of demi-pro- nation and demi-flexion, that the movement of extension was incomplete, and of su- pination impossible. Cruveilhier, in the ac- count he has given of both his cases, states that the superior extremity of the radius was at the level of the summit of the olecranon process (Jig- 46), and that the infe- rior or carpal extremity of the two bones of the fore- arm were on the same pre- cise line below, and that no deformity here existed. The head of the radius and tu- bercle were deformed, or ra- ther imperfectly developed, while there was an elonga- tion of the neck of the ra- dius upwards for more than an inch. Cruveilhier can- not concur with those who consider these cases as ex- amples of congenital luxa- tions, but looks upon them as old luxations, which had been left unreduced. For our part we cannot see in these pathological ob- servations any thing to con- vince us that any one of the cases alluded to was an old luxation originally produced by accident or disease. Sup- pose, for argument sake, it be admitted that, from long disease, the form of the , capitulum was altogether Malformation of the j £ fa t, d; nQ radius, in winch , > ... , it was found as longer m contact with it, and long as the ulna, that the acquired breadth of Fig. 46. 1