ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 814 ten months, during which time he was con- tented to remain most of the time in his bed, but when placed on his feet, could stand very well, and was able but unwilling to walk. On Tuesday the 20th of May he got an attack of bronchitis, which, the following Friday, ter- minated fatally. At twelve o'clock, on Satur- day, the 25th May, assisted by Mr. Brabazon and some of the pupils of the hospital, I made an examination of the body. The right leg and thigh were much everted. The trochanter major was elevated, and projected much out- wards; the degree of shortening just amounted to one inch; the muscles presented a healthy appearance, the capsular ligament was of a yel- lowish colour, and somewhat thickened. The femur was removed from the acetabulum ; this / latter cavity presented a healthy appearance, ex- cept towards the margin of it; here the cartilage was softened. The round ligament was sound. The head and neck of the bone had lost their normal obliquity, and were directed nearly ho- rizontally inwards (fig. 321); the cervix pre- sented, both anteriorly and posteriorly, evidence of a transverse intra-capsular fracture having oc- curred ; the globular-shaped head was closely approximated behind and below to the posterior intertrochanteric line, and to the lesser trochan- ter, so that the neck seemed altogether lost except anteriorly, where a very well-marked ridge of bone shewed the seat of the displace- ment and of the union of the fragments. This ridge is evidently the upper extremity of the lower fragment of the cervix. The fracture of the neck posteriorly was found to have been closer to the corona of the head than anteriorly, and the fibro-synovial fold in the former situa- tion remained unbroken. A section has been made of the bone through the head, neck, and trochanter ; one portion has been subjected to maceration and to boiling ; and the bony union has been unaffected by these tests. Scarcely any portion of the neck can be said to have been left. Fig. 322. The section,322, shews the compact line which denotes the union of the fragments ; the head and shaft seem to be mutually impacted into each other, and almost the whole of the cervix has been absorbed ; the line of union is serrated, solid,and immoveable; and the cells of the head and substance of the shaft seem to communicate freely in all places, except where the thin line of compact tissue here and there points out the seat of the welding together of the remaining portions of the head and neck of the femur. The bone was in its recent state, on the 25th of May, laid before a meeting of the Patho- logical Society. It seemed to be the univer- sal opinion of the members present that it was a decided specimen of the intra-capsu- lar fracture of the cervix femoris, which had been solidly united by bony callus. This case may be adduced in formal contradiction to the observation and theories of that very emi- nent pathologist, Cruveilhier. It cannot be said to invalidate the more guarded opinions of Sir A. Cooper, who, in his observations upon this subject, distinctly stated that " he would not be understood to deny the possibility of union, when the bone was broken, without its periosteum and reflected^gament being torn, or when there was no separation of its fractured ends." Cases such as the foregoing are certainly rare, but they appear to the writer to belong to the class of impacted fractures; they differ from those alluded to in the foregoing article merely in this, that in the former the fracture of the cervix takes place at its basis near the trochan- ters, and that, in the latter, the fracture occurs near to the head of the bone, and is thus en- tirely intra-capsular, or rather may be considered as fractures of the intra-capsular portion of the cervix femoris. The question then, viz. does bony consolidation of the intra-capsular frac- ture of the cervix femoris ever occur? seems to us replied to in the affirmative. When an impaction of one, or a mutual