106 ENDOSMOSIS. membrane of the endosmometer must have been kept plunged in the watery solution about to be experimented on for at least a quarter of an hour, in order that it may become tho- roughly impregnated with the solution, and to secure that this should take the place of the water which the membrane had formerly con- tained in its pores. Without this measure of precaution, the results of the second experi- ment would be faulty. It is also indispensa- ble that the circumstances under which the two experiments are performed are in all re- spects exactly alike. It was in this way that I proceeded to ascertain comparatively the capa- city of filtration of water to that of. a watery solution of oxalic acid through a piece of blad- der. I found that the filtrating power of rain- water, at the temperature of + 21 cent, being denoted by 24, the filtrating power of a watery solution of oxalic acid of no greater density than 1.005, (1.2 of acid to 100 of solution,) was denoted by 12. A solution of the same acid, of the density of 1.01,being tried, its filtrating power was found to be represented by 9. By these ex- periments it is therefore proved that water tra- verses an animal membrane more readily than a solution of oxalic acid. Why then does the latter solution traverse an animal membrane more readily and in greater quantity than water, when it is water which is in contact with the surface of the membrane opposite to that which is in contact with the acid ? This is a question which I find it impossible to answer in the present state of our knowledge. The discovery of this singular property of the oxalic acid to cause the endosmotic current to flow towards the water when separated from the latter fluid by a lamina of ammal mem- brane, led me to imagine that all the acids would be found to possess a similar property. And this I ascertained, in the first instance, to be the case in regard to the tartaric and citric acids. Both of these acids are much more so- luble in water than oxalic acid. The saturated solution of oxalic acid at + 25 cent, has no higher a density than 1.045 (11.6 acid to 100 of the solution.) But the solubility of the tar- taric and citric acids is such that their watery solutions may have a density of far greater amount. I tried the endosmotic effects of the tartaric and citric acids in watery solution of various density, and I discovered, not without surprise, that very dense solutions of them and solutions of inferior density exhibited endos- motic phenomena in inverse ratios. Thus, when a solution of tartaric acid was of a den- sity above 1.05, (11 crystallized acid in 100 of solution,) and it was divided from water by an animal membrane, the temperature being + 25 cent, the endosmotic current is directed from the water towards the acid ; but when, under the same circumstances, the density of the acid solution is below 1.05, the current of endos- mosis is directed from the acid towards the water, just as we have found it to be with refe- rence to the oxalic acid. Consequently, ac- cording to its greater or less density, tartaric acid presents the phenomenon of endosmosis in two opposite directions. At the mean density of 1.05, at a temperature of ■+• 25° cent, it exhibits no obvious endosmotic phenomena whatever; not that there is not reciprocal pe- netration between the acid and the water, which are divided by the animal membrane ; but this reciprocal penetration takes place so equally on either side, that there is no increase of bulk of the one fluid at the cost of the other—there is no endosmosis. The citric acid exhibits pre- cisely the same phenomena; the point of mean density, which divides its two opposed endos- motic capacities, is also very nearly the same, namely, 1.05 at a temperature of -\- 25° cent. These facts induced me to imagine that if the oxalic acid alone presented the endosmotic cur- rent directed from the acid towards the water, this arose from the fact of its solution at + 25° cent, falling short of the density necessary to permit the acid solution to cause the endosmo- tic current to flow from the water towards the acid. The preceding observations were made during the heats of summer. The centigrade thermo- meter was standing at + 25° when I determined the mean term of density of the solution of tar- taric acid, above and short of which the endos- mosis happening between this solution and water is directed towards the acid. ..It was of importance to know whether a depression of temperature would cause any modification in these phenomena. I therefore repeated the same experiments when the temperature was 4-15° cent, and I was astonished to find that the mean term of density, of which we have spoken above, was considerably altered, being made to move in the direction of the increase of density of the acid solution. Thus the mean term of density being 1.05, (11 crystallized acid to 100 solution,) at a temperature of + 25° cent, it came to be 1.1, (21 acid to 100 solu- tion,) at a temperature of + 15° of the same scale; that is to say, the solution of tartaric acid, which now occupies the mean term, con- tains nearly twice as much acid as the solution which stood at the previous mean term, when the temperature was ten degrees of the centi- grade scale higher. This first essay was enough to lead to the inference that the mean term of density, which we are now discussing, would undergo further alterations in the same sense with further depressions of temperature; and this was actually found to be the case. At a temperature of 8J° cent, the solution of tarta- ric acid, of the density 1.1, was no longer the solution of mean density dividing the two op- posed endosmotic currents, as it was when the temperature was + 15° cent. This solution then caused the endosmotic current to flow freely towards the water. I had to increase its density to 1.15 (30 acid to 100 solution) to come to the new mean term, beyond which the current of endosmosis was directed towards the acid, and within which it was directed towards the water. With the temperature depressed to a quarter of a degree cent, above zero, the solution of tartaric acid, of the density of 1.15, no longer presented the mean term; this solution now occasioned endosmosis towards the water, which indicated that the mean term was to be