848 ILIAC ARTERIES. unless there be something peculiar in the par- ticular case to justify its adoption. The ad- vantages of the second method have been partly stated ; to these is to be added that the line of incision will be made to correspond more to that of the artery than by the last method, and consequently the wound will be less oblique in depth, whence probably there will be less difficulty experienced in holding aside the parts which intervene between the surface and the vessel; and certainly the operator, who may be apprehensive of injuring the epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries or the spermatic process, will do well to adopt it. Still for some reasons I feel disposed to prefer the last, for 1, it re- quires less disturbance of the peritoneum ; 2, it appears to me that the exposure of the vessel must be greatly facilitated by carrying the lower extremity of the incision across the course of the artery to its inner side, which is not accom- plished by the second method ; 3, a semilunar line of incision furnishes a wound of greater length, and capable of being more widely opened than a straight one, while caution will secure the spermatic process and the epigastric artery from injury; and if a branch of the circumflex iliibe, as it is likely to be, divided, it may be tied with ease. This was the me- thod adopted by Mott in the operation, in which he tied the primitive iliac artery'; a case which sufficiently establishes the adequacy of this plan for the high ligature of the vessel, at the same time that it displays in a strong light the difficulties for which the operator must be prepared. In such cases the method of di- viding the internal oblique and transversalis used by Mott may be adopted with advantage, viz. after having opened the fascia transversalis to insinuate the finger between it and the peri- toneum, and guided by it to divide both mus- cles at once from within. It must not be forgotten that it is not uncommon to find the ureter crossing the internal iliac artery, upon the right side, near its origin. Operations for the ligature of the internal iliac artery. — The method adopted in this operation by Stevens, by whom the artery was first tied, and that recommended by the ma- jority of writers, is similar in principle to the first plan of Abernethy for the external iliac, and differs from it only m the length of the incision, which, according to Guthrie, should be five inches, beginning about half an inch above Poupart's ligament and about the same distance to the outside of the inner ring; it should be nearly parallel to the course of the epigastric artery, but a little more to the out- side, in order to avoid it and the spermatic cord, and have a gradual inclination inwards toward the 'external edge of the rectus muscle: according to Hodgson the centre of it should be nearly opposite the superior anterior spinous process of the ilium. The aponeurosis of the external oblique, and the internal oblique and tranversalis muscles having been divided with the same precautions to avoid the peritoneum, as in the other case, the fascia transversalis is to be torn through at the lower and outer part, so that the fingers may be passed outward towards the ilium, and the peritoneum detached from the iliac fossa, and turned with its contents inward by a gradual and sidelong movement of the fore and second finger inwards and upwards, until passing over the psoas muscle the ex- ternal iliac artery is discovered by its pulsation. This is then to be traced upward and inward toward the spine, where the origin of it and the internal iliac from the common iliac trunk will be felt. The artery is to be traced down- ward from its origin and separated with care from its connections, and more especially the vein. The sides of the wound should now be separated and kept apart with curved spatuku in order that the surgeon may, if possible, see the artery, and have sufficient space fin* passing the ligature. Great care must be taken to avoid every thing but the artery; the peri- toneum which covers, and the ureter, which crosses it, must be particularly kept in mind ; the latter may be separated with ease, and usually accompanies the former as it is being detached from the artery. The situation of the external iliac artery and vein, which have been crossed to reach it, must be always recollected, and, if possible, they should be kept out of the way and guarded by the finger of an assistant.* This method has in this case a recommendation, which it does not possess for the other iliacs, viz. that, as it is necessary in tying the internal iliac to descend more or less into the pelvis, it is desirable that the external wound should be as near as possible to the aperture of the cavity, but the danger to the peritoneum must be even greater because of the greater extent to which it must be separated, and the closer attachment of it to the ten- dinous than the muscular structure of the abdominal wall. It, therefore, seems to me a question whether even in this case the line of incision here recommended should be adopted, and whether it would not be better to have recourse to that either of Roux or Cooper. Gf the two perhaps the former may be best adapted to the internal iliac for the reason just assigned; though, if the inferior extremity of the incision be not carried beyond the middle of Poupart's ligament, difficulty must be ex- perienced in exposing the vessel and passing the ligature; therefore here again I am dis- posed to prefer the semilunar line of Cooper, only not brought so close to the crural arch as for the external iliac, and prolonged, as di- rected by Velpeau, two inches at its external extremity. It is recommended to pass the ligature from within outward because the internal iliac vein is posterior to the artery; this appears to me, however, not the most judicious plan, by it the point of the needle must be first carried out- ward and then forward and inward in order to pass round the vessel: now the external iliac vein is immediately external to and crossed by the artery; the junction of the two iliac veins is also external to the artery, and the internal one, though posterior, is at the same time ra- ther external to it. In such a case the course * Guthrie on Diseases of Arteries, p. 371-2. '