307 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. how will it appear after the qualification by which it is followed has been perused ? " I owe it to truth," he says, " to add that these last statements were not collected till after the dissection, and that they were gathered from the patients of the ward." Such an admission manifestly destroys the value of the case : evi- dence obtained only after the individual's death, so little marked as during his lifetime to have been overlooked, and relating to a question at once so obscure and delicate, can hardly fail to be imperfect; but admitting that the patient did relish and distinguish between different kinds of snuff, and that he was disagreeably affected by his neighbour's ailment, what then? The chief property of common, if not of every snuff, is pungency and not odour, and the per- ception of pungency is not the function of the olfactory nerve; and one may be as disagree- ably affected by a disgusting sight as by a dis- gusting smell, and the patients of the ward not make any distinction between the senses af- fected, until taught by the inquiries made that it must have been that of smell. And if the case just quoted prove the existence in the organ of smell of a sensibility to the impres- sion of volatile agents independent of the ol- factory, and conferred by the fifth nerve, the existence of another equally independent of the latter is satisfactorily established by the continuance of smell in those cases in which the faculty conferred by the fifth nerve has been lost through disease. This may be seen from reference to the case furnished by Beclard, and advanced by the very advocates of Magendie's doctrine in support of it; but the fact is still more strongly established by the case some time since published by Mr. Bishop, in which, though the fifth nerve was completely destroyed by the pressure of a tumour within the cra- nium, and both the ordinary and tactile sensi- bility of the same side of the face and its cavi- ties was in consequence altogether lost, the sense of smell continued unimpaired. In a case of disease of the fifth nerve which the writer has witnessed, the patient did acknow- ledge the perception of certain odoriferous agents; but judging from it alone, he could not say that smell was not impaired; on the contrary it seemed very much so, inasmuch as the patient denied at first any perception of the impression of several agents accounled odorous, and when he did say that he smelt these, it was not of himself, nor until he had been particularly questioned, and then he said it was * up in his head' that he felt the sensa- tion, and positive must take precedence of nega- tive evidence. Further, it is very likely that in the case of sensations, themselves neither dis- agreeable nor acute, the vividness of which may depend very much upon association with other and more acute ones, the former may be disregarded where the latter have been lost, and hence the rashness of inferring that brutes have lost certain faculties, because in the course of experiments they do not by the exercise of these give evidence of their existence. The fact of the absence of olfactory nerves in the Cetacea as established by Cuvier has also led some to the conclusion that the proper faculty of smell may be capable of being transferred at least to the fifth; but until the faculty has been proved to exist in such case, the inference is manifestly not warranted by the premises. It appears then that there is a distinct per- ceptive faculty enjoyed by the nostrils, inde- pendent of the fifth and dependent on the olfactory nerve; that we possess no positive evidence of the latter nerves being in any case the media by which this peculiar perception is recognized, but that they serve for the recogni- tion only of impressions of contact, pungency, or irritation. 2. Relation of the fifth nerves to vision.—• That in all animals having at once the faculty of vision and an optic nerve, the latter is in- dispensably necessary to the exercise of the former cannot be denied :—disease or division of the nerve is uniformly attended by loss of the function ; but some circumstances coun- tenance the opinion that the fifth nerve pos- sesses a more important connection with vision than may at first appear. 1. Injury of the frontal and certain other branches of the fifth nerve has been long accounted among the causes of amaurosis. 2. Maj;eiidie has found that " on division of the two ' fifth ' nerves upon an animal it seems blind." 3. The fact which countenances most strongly the opinion that the fifth nerve is concerned directly in the function of vision is derived from com- parative anatomy. It has been stated that in certain animals a special optic nerve is wanting, and the ocular nerve is derived from the fifth pair. Of this it appears universally admitted that the proteus anguinus is an instance; its eyes are situate immediately beneath the epi- dermis, which is transparent * in front of them ; the optic nerve is wanting,-)- and the only nerve received by the eye is a branch of the second division of the fifth.\ Whatever vision, there- fore, may be enjoyed by this animal, and according to Carus§ it is considerable, must be exerted through the medium of the fifth nerve. Among the mammalia also are several animals which appear to be in the same, or nearly the same state ; but anatomists are not agreed on the point: the absence of a special optic nerve in the mole was announced by Zinn, || who shewed that its place was taken by a branch of the fifth. Carus and Treviranus, however, maintain that the optic does exist in the animal, but that it is very minute, grey, and capillary; that in the same proportion the fifth nerve is large, and that its second division at its exit from the cranium gives off a branch, which enters the globe of the eye, and according to the former concurs in forming the retina.lf Serres again positively denies the existence of the optic nerve in the mole, and maintains that these anatomists are mistaken; he states that he has sought the * Serres. t Treviranus, Serres. X Ibid. § Comparative Anatomy. [I De differentia fabricae oculi humani et brntorum. Tl Journal Complementaire, vol. xv. x 2