GANGLION. 373 is possessed by those bodies in common with the brain and spinal chord, is very considerable, constituting apparently the largest, and cer- tainly the most essential part of the ganglion. It is so intimately connected with the fibres that these latter appear as if they were incrusted, being surrounded in every direction by this greyish matter; but although this intimate intermixture is very evident, no fibrils can be perceived actually terminating in or arising from the grey matter. A section of one of the sympathetic ganglia, the first cervical for ex- ample, displays this incrustation of the fibres and the interposition between them of rounded masses of the grey matter; but the Gasseiian is in many respects the most favourable for ex- amination. Much difference of opinion exists concerning the true nature of this substance. Scarpa con- tends that it is not analogous with the grey matter of the brain, but that it consists of a fiocculent a, a, Fasciculi of splanchnic nerve. b, b, Fibres running through the ganglion. c, c, Branches collected from the former, and emerging. This juicy or gelatinous substance, which is met with in the spinal as well as in the sympa- thetic ganglia, does not, however, according to Lobstein, appear to be an essential part of the organization, as it varies in its proportion in different ganglia, and may even be absent; nor, it is said, can it be assimilated with the grey matter of the brain. Ehrenberg also controverts the opinion that the ganglia resemble the grey part of the brain ; but although he has found by microscopical inspection, that these bodies contain an over- tissue loaded with a mucilaginous fluid, which becomes oily in obesity, and watery and abun- dant in anasarca. The accumulation of fat in the true ganglionic tissue has, however, been denied by Beclard, Wutzer, and others. Ac- cording to Bichat, whose opinions must always command our respect, " the ganglions have a colour very different from that of the nerves. They present a soft spongy tissue, somewhat similar to the lymphatic glands, but which has nothing in common either with the cerebral substance or with that of the nerves." It is stated by Lobstein, who has published one of the latest and most minute accounts of the structure and diseases of the sympathetic nerve,* that he has observed lying contiguous to the white and filamentous tissue another substance presenting a fiocculent appearance, with globules interspersed (muteries vel sub- stantia orbicularis tomentosa), and which he regards as the second material of the ganglia. d, d, Fiocculent or orbicular substance placed be- tween and applied to fibres. e, e, Foramina perforating the ganglion. whelming proportion of large varicose tubes, similar to those of the fibrous portion of the brain, yet he has also shewn that they possess minute varicose fibres like those of the grey substance ; and what particularly is deserving of notice, he has detected in the muscles of the fibres granules similar to those which are found in the cervical portion of the brain.f * De Nervi Sympath. Humani, fabrica, usu, ct morbis, p. 66. t Structur des Seelenorgans bci Menschen uud Thiercn, Berlin, 1836, p. 31. Fig. 170. Semilunar ganglion, twice the natural lixe.