FEMORAL ARTERY. obliterated. Of this condition several in- stances are cited by Hodgson,* and a most remarkable one is in the possession of Mr. Adams of this city, through whose liberality the author is permitted to introduce a notice of it. It was obtained from a patient who had been operated on by the late Professor Todd, and is remarkable, 1. because the operation had been performed upon both limbs, and the condition of both is, as nearly as may be, the same; 2. because the obliteration at the seat of the ligature does not on either side exceed an inch, on one not being more than half that length ; and, 3. because the artery is pervious on both sides from the obliteration of the ligature to the lower part of the popliteal artery, the obliteration at the seat of the dis- ease appearing not to have extended beyond it; and being, on both sides, about two inches long. Thirdly, the artery has been found par- tially and irregularly obliterated, the vessel being closed at and for some distance below the seat of the ligature; being then pervious, the blood being conveyed into it by the in- osculations between the minor branches of the artery arising below the interruption and those of the profunda from above; and again im- pervious below, the blood being conveyed from it by similar branches anastomosing with the articular arteries. The effect of ligature of the external iliac upon the femoral artery, independent of the influence of aneurism, has been already ad- verted to. That effect is liable to be modified by the presence of the disease; thus in a case related by Sir A. Cooper in the fourth volume of the Medieo-Chirurgical Transactions, in which the iliac was tied for aneurism of the femoral artery at the middle of the thigh, the latter vessel was obliterated from the origin of the profunda downward. The case, re- corded by Mr. Norman, already referred to, in which the external iliac was also tied, presents another remarkable modification: in it the femoral remained pervious, but the root of the profunda was obliterated, while its branches were open. Operative relations of the femoral artery.— The femoral artery may be the subject of ope- ration at any part of its course, there being nothing either in its situation or relations to forbid the exposure of it at any point, if cir- cumstances should require it. All parts, how- ever, are not equally eligible, the vessel being in some situations more deeply situate, covered by a greater number and depth of parts, and its relations more complicated than at others. It has been taken up in each of the three stages into which its course has been divided, and the operations, which may according to circumstances be performed upon it, may with advantage be referred lo those. The propriety of thus distinguishing them will appear in a strong light, when tho.^e modifications, which the anatomical relations of the vessel may justify, shall have been discussed, as also from the history of the operations, which have been * Op. cit. 278, 9. and are proposed to be performed upon the femoral artery. In its first stage the vessel may be tied at two points, viz. either above or below the origin of the profunda artery: the operation at the former point, being performed under circumstances different from those in which that at the latter is admissible, may be con- sidered apart from the others, and the de- tail of it be postponed until they have been disposed of; while the operation in the second case, and those in the second and third stages have been at different times performed for the same purpose—the cure of popliteal aneurism —and therefore a comparison of their several details and advantages merits attention. The situation in which the femoral artery was first taken up for popliteal aneurism is the third stage of its course: here it was tied, as is generally known, by J. Hunter. In his ope- ration Hunter made " an incision on the an- terior and inner part of the thigh rather below its middle;" i.e. in the third stage; " which in- cision was continued obliquely across the inner edge of the sartorius muscle and made large:" the other steps of his operation it is not neces- sary at present to particularize ; the author would only remark, as a matter of history, that Hunter's application of ligatures has been mis- understood : he applied in bis first operation four ligatures to the artery, and it is com- monly, if not generally, said that they were drawn with various degrees of tightness ; but such was not the case, they were tied all equally tight: the account given in the report of the operation being, " the artery was now tied by both these ligatures," viz. the two upper, " but so slightly as only to compress the sides together. A similar application of ligatures was made a little lower. The reason for hav- ing four ligatures was to compress such a length of artery, as might make up for the want of tightness, it being wished to avoid great pressure on the vessel at any one part." The artery may be and has been frequently taken up in the middle stage, and the ope* ration, as described in several surgical works, will be found to belong to, if not to be in- tended for, that stage. During its two latter stages the artery is covered by the sartorius: in its uppermost it is not covered by the muscle, and consequently if it be necessary to displace the muscle to bring the artery into view above the last stage, it must be in the middle one, and in the account of the operation given by some of the highest authorities, the displace- ment of the sartorius is stated as one of the steps. This the author refers to not in a spirit of criticism, but in order to mark more strongly the distinction between the operations at the several stages, and to direct attention to the advantages possessed by that in the first over the others; more particularly since de- scriptions, which in strictness apply to the operation in the middle stage, and at a part of the artery's course below the first, may be found so put forward that the operations at the two points must be confounded; and thus the advantages contemplated by the proposer of