872 INSECTA. a nymph, or pupa, the head is found to occupy the anterior part of the second segment. The true head of the hymenopterous larva, before its changes have commenced, is in reality the first segment; since, as remarked by Mr. Westwood, it has not only the usual conforma- tion of the head, but contains also the rudi- ments of all the manducatory organs, and the antenna;. In addition to this, we may state that before the larva has discontinued to feed, and has begun to prepare itself for transforma- tion, we have invariably found on dissection, that the first cerebral mass, the supra-cesopha- geal ganglion or brain is situated in the superior part of the first segment, and the first sub- cesophageal ganglion in the posterior part of the inferior surface; so that it is not until after the changes into the nymph state have com- menced, beneath the skin of the larva, that the head becomes so greatly enlarged as to en- croach upon the second segment. Of the head. The head of a larva, excepting in Dipterous insects as above noticed, is usually of a rounded or oval figure, and of a harder texture than other parts of the body. At its inferior surface are situated the organs of manducation, and at its lateral and anterior the rudiments of the eyes and antenna;. In all true larvae it is divided longitudinally into two halves, by a suture which extends from the vertex or epicranium to thtj face, the front of which is formed by a convex plate, the clypeus, or shield (fig. 359, b). This is generally of a Fig. 359. Head of larva of Athalia centifoliee. a, the epicranium ; b, the clypeus ; c, labrum ; d, the mandibles ; e, maxillee and palpi; f, ,the labium and labial palpi. ( Newport, Prize Essay.) semicircular, or a quadrangular form, but varies considerably in different species. Immediately beneath this plate is situated another, the labrum or upper lip (c). This also is of an elongated, quadrangular, and sometimes heart- shaped form, and constitutes the anterior boundary of the mouth. Beneath this plate are a pair of strong horny jaws, mandibular (d), which are in general thick, curved, and strongly indented or toothed, and are placed one on each side of the head. Beneath these are a pair of lesser jaws, maxilla (e), placed in a similar manner, and with the mandibles form the lateral boundaries of the mouth. The maxillae are soft, membranaceous and adapted for holding, rather than for comminuting the food like the mandibles. They are in general also furnished, as in ihe larva of Athalia, with two other jointed organs, palpi or feelers which are employed by the insect entirely as tactors. Behind these parts is situated a second trans- verse plate, the labium {J'), or inferior lip, which bounds the posterior part of the mouth. This also, like the maxilla, is furnished with a pair of jointed palpi. The motions of the man- dibles and maxillae differ from those of the jaws in vertebrated animals, being always from side to side, and meeting, or passing across each other like the blades of a pair of scissors. Besides these parts, there is in many larvae a projecting papilla situated within the mouth upon the soft membrane of the labium. This is conical and jointed, and is called by Messrs. Kirby and Spence the spinneret. It is the common excretory duct of the glands which secrete the materials with which the insect spins its coccoon, previously to undergoing its trans- formations. In all larvae the antenna (g) are but slightly developed. They are situated a little above the base of the mandibles, on each side of the clypeus, and are of a conical form, jointed, and usually terminating in a point. In some species they are three, but rarely more than five-jointed. The eyes in all larvae are single, or sessile, and not compound, or aggregated together, as in perfect insects. In the pseudo-caterpillars, Tenthredinida, as in Athalia centijblue, there is only one large stem- ma on each side of the head (A), situated above the antennae; but in the true caterpillars, Lepi- duptera, as in the Sphinx ligustri, there are always six very minute ones, placed at a little distance from each other, in the form of an arc near the base of the mandibles and antennae, at the lateral part of the head. In the apodal hymenopterous larvae which constantly reside in the dark, the oral apparatus is developed, but the eyes are in general entirely absent. The form of the oral apparatus in the maggots, or larva? of the Dipterous insects, is entirely different from that of the insects we have just described. In the larva of (Estrus ovis instead of mandibles and maxillae crossing each other transversely, the mouth is formed by two fissures, the one anterior and longitudinal, and the other posterior and transverse, the two meeting each other in the form of the letter T inverted thus j, (fig. 360). In the anterior fissure (c) are situated two longitudinal power- ful hooks, the" mandibles (d) directed forwards and downwards, and employed by the insect both as organs of progression and nutrition. At the base of these in the transverse fissure (e), are two other hooks, maxillae, of a similar des- cription, directed both to the median line, but jointed like the mandibles in Myriapoda, and crossing each other like the mandibles of the true larva. The hooks thus include between them the cavity of the mouth, in this manner adapted both for wounding and tearing as well as suction, and it is curious to observe that we have here in the larva of a true insect an ap- proach to the vermiform type of the permanent condition of the oral apparatus of the leech. In the maggot of the larder-flies and flesh-flies above ailuded to, the mouth is formed some- what differently. Behind the transverse hooks