329 FCETUS. Fig. 159. Albert F. Veiel quotes a case from Froriep's Notizen, Bd. xii. p. 26, of a fetus " whose left foot was separated, during pregnancy, from the bone, and the fore foot was born by itself, quite healed."* The following case was recently published in the American Journal of Medical Science, by Dr. F. P. Fitch of New Boston. On the 17th March a healthy woman, then in the seventh month of pregnancy, suddenly discharged the liquor amnii. On the 21st a substance escaped from the vagina, which proved to be a perfectly well-formed fcetal foot, apparently separated at the ankle-joint, and in a complete state of pre- servation. On the 5th April she was delivered of a seven-months' child, which lived about half an hour. At the left side of the centre of the forehead there was a horny protuberance of the size of the middle finger; the face, also, was greatly deformed. Upon the foot, the place of separation was contracted to the size of a small pin's head, and the healing process had apparently been as perfect, and progressed very nearly as far as that on the lower extre- mity of the limb.^ Within the last few months a child of a month old was brought to me from the county of Westmeath, in consequence of its having been born deprived of the left hand. On exa- mination I found the forearm of that side pre- senting, a little above the wrist, the appearance of a perfectly well-formed stump, as it would be found after amputation by the surgeon's knife; with this difference, however, that the mark of cicatrix did not extend across the stump, but was confined to a small circular * " Der linke Fuss wahrend der Schwangerschaft sich von dem Beine ablbste, und der Vorderfuss f'tir sich, bereits geheilt, geboren wurde." t American Journal of the. Medical Sciences, No. xxxv. for May 1836, p. 90. depression in its centre; the child was other- wise quite perfect and healthy. Unfortunately I could not obtain any information as to whe- ther the hand had been found at the time of delivery or not, the poor woman having been attended only by an ignorant country midwife. Three cases, very similar to the above, are de- scribed by Dr, Simpson.* I feel almost convinced that the removal of limbs in this way is by no means so uncommon an occurrence as the paucity of cases hitherto recorded would, at first sight, lead us to con- clude ; but the reason appears to me to be this, when the separated portion of limb was not accidentally discovered, the imperfection seems to have been considered quite as a matter of course, and without further examination, as arising from imperfect development or monstro- sity, and, consequently, no search was made for the deficient part; and, even if search was made, the amputated member might have been so small as to escape undiscovered, involved in the membranes, or buried in coagula; even though the child to which it belonged had at- tained considerable size, because its separation may, as we have seen, take place a consider- able time previous to birth; this is noticed in Mr. Watkinson's case, and is still more stri- kingly exemplified in that described by Zagors- ky, see fig. 159. With regard to the theories which have been advanced to account for such accidents as that which we have been considering, some, regard- ing them as the effects of mental emotions in the mother, or of accidents encountered by her, have attempted to support their views by- details which Haller truly designates as " adeo fabulosa ut fidem auferant;" those who attri- buted this phenomenon to gangrene did so from theory, and have received no support for their opinions even from the facts which they have themselves recorded; for it is expressly mentioned that the parts which were the seat of the injury seemed otherwise healthy, were not discoloured, and at the point of division were either partially or entirely healed over. The explanation which facts fortunately enabled me to offer does not depend on conjectural reasoning or theoretical speculation for its support, but its proof may be " oculis subjects fidelibus" by the mere inspection of the parts, which are preserved in my museum ; and with regard to the nature of the process by which the solution of continuity is effected, and the foot, or other part amputated, it appears to be strictly that of disjunctive atrophy, and in a great degree similar to that by which the sepa- ration of the funis from the umbilicus is accom- plished. Convulsive affections.— Having alluded to convulsive movements of the child in another place as the occasional cause of certain phy- sical injuries to it, such as fractures and dislo- cations, a few words on the subject will hardly be misplaced here, although the affection itself may perhaps not come exactly within the scope of this article. The variety in the activity of * Dublin Medical Journal, vol. x. p. 226.