GANGLION. 374 Notwithstanding these and other high au- thorities, the researches of many recent writers, which have thrown so much new and valuable light on the mutual relations of the component parts of the nervous system, leave little room for doubting the identity of these two sub- stances. The analogy of the whole nervous system tends to prove that this peculiar matter is nothing else than the grey substance; in the Gasserian ganglion, indeed, the resemblance is so striking that no doubt of their identity can be entertained. This view of the subject was taken by Winslow, Johnstone, and others; and lately the existence of grey matter has been admitted by Dr. Fletcher, an assumption, indeed, which is the basis of his hypothesis, that the ganglionic system of nerves is the im- mediate seat of irritability.* II. Fibres.—This is a most important branch of the present inquiry, because a knowledge of the connexions of these bodies with the other parts of the nervous system and with each other, as well as of the internal disposition of their fibres, is indispensable to the investigation of their functions. The subject may be re- solved into two questions, a. What is the arrangement of the fibres in the ganglia ? b. What is the nature of the fibres which arc connected with the ganglia ? a. The internal disposition of the nervous filaments, owing to the very intimate relations subsisting betweeu them and the grey matter, is difficult to determine; and hence it has happened that great difference of opinion pre- vails on this point. I shall in the first place describe the arrangement in the most simple of these organs, and for that purpose shall select that of the portio major of the fifth pair. On inspection it is seen that the large coarse fibrils of the nerve on approaching the ganglion begin to spread out from each other, and although in its interior they are, as we have already observed, encrusted by the grey matter, yet, on scraping this away, the fibres may be seen still passing on uninterruptedly, but becoming more and more separated from each other. It is this disposition which Scarpa has aptly enough compared to a rope the two ends of which remain twisted, whilst in the middle the component threads are unfolded and pulled asunder. A similar, but less distinct arrange- ment exists in the spinal ganglia. Although the continuity of the fibres through the ganglion is easily demonstrated, yet it would be wrong to conclude that this passage is all that happens; for in the first place the three branches of the trigeminal nerve which emerge from, are decidedly larger than the trunk of the same nerve which passes into the ganglion. Their physical qualities are also altered, especially as relates to their colour, which, instead of having the whitish aspect common to the proper fibres of the cerebro- spinal axis, is for some distance of the reddish hue proper to the ganglionic system; and again it would be in opposition to all our notions of the properties of the grey matter * Rudiments of Physiol, st. ii. a. p. 87. to imagine that the fibres do not maintain intimate connexions with that substance, by which means its influence, whatever it may be, is communicated to those threads. In the sympathetic ganglions the internal formation is much more intricate ; and it is especially in reference to these bodies that so much diversity of opinion prevails among anatomists. The researches of Monro,* Scarpa,f and Lobstein,} as well as ocular inspection, prove that some fibres undoubtedly pass without interruption through the ganglion. On making a section of the first cervical ganglion, previously hardened by alcohol, fibres will be perceived, which, although se- parated from each other by irregular interstices filled with grey matter, are still continued uninterruptedly from one to the other ex- tremity. There are, however, besides these, other fibres, which are so complex that it is almost impossible to demonstrate their exact disposition. I believe, however, that, inde- pendently of those fibrils which run through the ganglion, there are some which terminate in, and others which arise from the grey matter in its interior. Fig. 171. Superior cervical ganglion of the great intercostal nerve of the right side. a, Trunk of the great intercostal nerve a little below the foramen caroticum. b, Trunk of the nerve below the superior cervical ganglion. c, c, c, c, The branches which from the three superior cervico-spinal nerves run to join the su- perior cervical ganglion of the great intercostal nerve, d, d, d, Nerves issuing from the superior cervical ganglion, e. Nervous fibriform stratum of the ganglion, f, Reticulated plexus produced by the mingling of the nervous fibres, g, Reticulated or plexiform nervous filaments. h, Nervous filaments variously mingled with others connected with the neighbouring cerebral and spinal nerves, t, The nervous filaments of which the trunk of the intercostal nerve below the superior cervical ganglion is composed. * Obs. on Nerv. Sys. p. 54. + L. c. p. 14, Tab. 1. fig. I, 2,3, 4. t L. c. Tab. tertia.