121 ENTOZOA. four mouths, or oscula, are situated on the anterior surface, (a, Jig. 63,) and surround the central rostellum, which is very short, termi- nated by a minute apical papilla, and surround- ed by a double circle of small recurved hooks. The segments of the neck, or anterior part of the body, are represented by transverse rugae, the marginal angles of which scarcely project be- yond the lateral line; the succeeding seg- ments are subquadrate, their length scarcely exceeding their breadth, they then become sen- sibly longer, narrower anteriorly, thicker and broader at the posterior margin, which slightly overlaps the succeeding joint; the last series of segments are sometimes twice or three times as long as they are broad. The generative orifices (b, b) are placed near the middle of one of the margins of each joint, and are generally alter- nate. The Tania solium is subject to many varieties of form or malformations; the head has been ob- served to present six oscula instead of four. In the Imperial Museum at Vienna, so celebrated for its entozoological collection, there is a por- tion of a Tania solium, of which one of the margins is single and the other double, as it were two taeniae joined by one margin. In the Museum of the College of Surgeons is preserved a fragment of the Tsema solium of unusual size; it swells out suddenly to the breadth of three- fourths of an inch with a proportionate degree of thickness, and then diminishes to the usual breadth.* The species of Tania infesting the intestines of other animals are extremely numerous, ne- vertheless they are rare in Fishes, in which they seem to be replaced by the Bothriocephali and Ligulte. The determination of the species in this, as in every other natural and circumscribed genus, is extremely difficult and often uncer- tain : their study is facilitated by distributing them into the three following sections, of which the first includes those species which are de- prived of a proboscis, Teenia inermes; the second those which have a proboscis, but un- armed, T&n'ue rostellata; the third the Tape-worms with an uncinated proboscis, Tania ar- viatcE. The Trematode Order, which is the most extensive division of the Parenchymatous class of En- tozoa, and embraces the greatest number of generic forms, in- cludes only two species infesting the human body, one of which, the liver-fluke (Distoma hepati- cum), is extremely rare, and the other (Polystoma Pinguicola) somewhat problematical. The Distoma heputicum (Jig. 64) is found in the gall-bladder and ducts of the liver of a variety of quadrupeds, and very com- monly in the Sheep. When it occurs in the Human species, it is generally developed in the Sec Catal. of Nat. Hist. No. 216. Fig. 64. same locality. The form of this species of En- tozoa is ovate, elongate, flattened; the anterior pore or true mouth (a) is round and small, the posterior cavity (b), which is imperforate and subservient only to adhesion and locomotion, is large, transversely oval, and situated on the ventral surface of the body in the anterior moiety. Between these cavities there is a third orifice (c) exclusively destined, like the orifice on each joint of the Taenia, to the generative system; and from which a small cylindrical process, or lemniscus, is generally protruded in the full-sized specimens. The form of the body is so different in the young Distomata, that Rudolphi was induced to believe the specimens from the human gall- bladder which were in this state, to belong to a distinct species, which he termed lanceo- latum ; this modification, which is wholly de- pendent upon age, is shown in the subjoined figure; and we shall hereafter have to notice the more extraordinary changes, amounting to a metamorphosis, which the Distomata infesting the intestines of Fish undergo. The Polystoma Pinguicola was discovered by Treutler, in the cavity of an indurated adi- pose tubercle, in the left ovarium of a female, aetat. 20; it is represented in situ, at A, Jig. 62. Its natural size and shape is shewn at B, the body is depressed,subconvex above, concave below, subtruncate anteriorly, a little contracted behind the head, pointed at the posterior extremity. On the under side of the head C, there are six orbicular pores disposed in a semi- lunar form : a larger sucto- rious cavity occurs on the ventral aspect at the begin- ning of the tail (b B), and a small orifice is situated at the apical extremity. A second species of Po- lystoma (Polystoma Vena- rum ), stated by Treutler to have been situated in the anterior tibial vein of a Man, which was accidentally ruptured while bathing, is generally supposed to have belonged to a species of Planaria, and to have been acci- dentally introduced into the strange locality above-mentioned. The worms of the Trematode order are those which are most frequent in the interior of the eyes of different animals, perhaps the most singular situation in which Entozoa have as yet been found, and respecting which much in- teresting information has recently been given by Ur. Nordmann, in the first part of his beautiful work entitled " Mikrographische Beitrage zur Naturgeschicte der Wirbellosen Thiere." Of the species described and figured in that work, we have selected for illustration the Diplostomum volvens. Fig. 66 exhibits a magnified view of the vitreous humour of a Perch (Percujluviutilis, Linn.) containing numerous specimens of fchis Polystoma Pinguicola.