00 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. strong muscles, such as are plainly designed to compress them. Some of these are inserted into the marginal cartilages of the fins; and there is a set of very powerful ones, arranged in a cruci- form manner on the ventral surface, so placed as to compress the electrical organs most strongly during their contraction. Dr. Davy remarks, " It is only necessary to compare these muscles as they exist in the torpedo with the same in any other species of ray to be convinced that they are adequate to, and designed for, the compression of the batteries." Some observers, as John Hunter, state that a large proportion of blood circulates through the electrical organs. Girardi found the torpedo much more full of blood than the other rays.* But Dr. Davy says, that there are very few vessels containing red blood in the organs them- selves; although their tegumentary coverings and the adjoining mucous system are highly vascular. The arteries of the organs are branches from the arteries of the gills ; their veins run between the gills direct to the auricle. The temperature of the electrical organs is not at all higher than that of other parts of the fish. All anatomists who have examined the torpedo have had their attention much arrested by the great size of the nerves distributed to the electri- cal organs. These consist of three principal trunks, all arising immediately from the cerebro- spinal system. The two anterior trunks are re- garded by Desmoulins and Majendie f as portions of the fifth pair of nerves, and the third as a branch of the eighth pair. But the first electrical nerve seems to have an origin altogether distinct from the root of what is unquestionably the main portion of the fifth pair, although it certainly is in very close proximity with it, and, in passing out of the cranium, the two nerves seem to be in some degree united for a short space. Immediately beyond this point of union, the electrical nerve sends a soft twig to a small cavity within the adjoining cartilage, (which Dr. Davy thinks is the ear,) and then divides into three small branches, and two large ones. One of the small branches goes to the gills, another to the neighbouring muscles, and the third to the mouth. The first of the large branches runs along the outer margin of the electrical organ, advancing first anteriorly, then going round to the posterior part of its circumference, and losing itself in the mucous glands of the tegu- mentary system, without sending a single twig into the electrical organ itself. The other great branch is inferior to the former in position, but much more voluminous ; it enters the electrical organ, and is ramified through its anterior third part, passing between its columns, and giving off numerous twigs for the supply of the walls of the columns, and the partitions, on which it terminates; some of which pass even into the gelatinous matter with which the columns are filled. This branch, from its very origin, has all its fibres separated, isolated, and parallel, held together only by cellular tissue, which also forms a kind of membranous sheath around * Mem. della Soc. Ital. iii. 553. t Anat. Comp. des Syst, nerv. the nerve. Just as it reaches the organ, it is divided horizontally into two portions, one of which runs near the upper surface, the other on the plane between the lower and middle thirds of the thickness of the organ. When examined with a high magnifying power, the minute branches of the electrical nerves present a dotted appearance, showing as if the medullary substance were arranged within the sheath, not in a continuous line, but in a succession of small portions with a little space between each.* The second electrical nerve rises a little be- hind the former. After leaving the cranium, it divides into two large branches, which, with the exception of a few twigs which go to the gills, are wholly distributed in the middle third of the electrical organs, in the same manner as the first pair. The third electrical nerve arises'from the brain close to the second, from which, however, it is separated by a thin cartilaginous plate. The greater portion of it goes to the electrical organ, and is distributed through its posterior third. It also supplies part of the gills, the gullet, the sto- mach, and the tail. Dr. Davy says it appeared to him that the branch of this nerve which goes to the stomach is the principal nerve of that organ : it is spread over its great arch.f The same observer also points out as deserving of particular attention, a very large plexus of nerves formed by a union of the anterior and posterior cervical nerves, of the former of which there are seventeen on either side, and only fourteen of the latter. This plexus presents itself as a single trunk just below the transverse cartilage that divides the thoracic from the abdominal cavity. It sends a recurrent branch to the muscles and skin of the under surface of the thorax; but the larger portion is distributed upon the pectoral fin and the neighbouring parts. The motive and sentient powers of the muscles and integuments connected with the electrical organs seem to depend on this plexus. The only other peculiarity of structure in the torpedo which can be supposed to be in any way connected with its electrical power, is in the system of mucous ducts, which is much more fully developed in it than in any other ray with which we are acquainted. It consists of numerous groups of glands arranged chiefly around the electrical organs; and of tubes con- nected with these, having strong and dense coats, filled with a thick mucus secreted by the glands. The tubes open chiefly on the dorsal surface of the skin, and pour out the mucus, * Dr. John Davy, Phil. Trans. 1834. t On this subject, Dr. Davy remarks—*' It is an interesting fact that the nerves of the stomach are derived from those supplying the electrical organs. Perhaps superfluous electricity, when not required for the defence of the animal, may be directed to this organ to promote digestion. In the instance of a fish which I had in my possession alive many days, and which was frequently excited to give shocks, di- gestion appeared to have been completely arrested; when it died, a small fish was found in its stomach, much in the same state as when it was swallowed— no portion of it had been dissolved."