FCETUS. .323 The spinal marrow is sometimes healthy, but more frequently it is morbidly affected and sometimes deficient; it is sometimes displaced from the spinal canal and lodged in the cavity of the tumour, especially when the latter occurs over the lumbar vertebra; sometimes the cauda equina has been contained in the tumour, and its component nerves found separated and floating in the fluid, or spread over the walls of the tumour. Children thus affected seldom survive, what- ever treatment may be adopted; some rare exceptions have, however, been met with, in which life has been continued even up to adult age; as in the case related by Mr. Jukes,* in which the woman had arrived at the age of twenty at the time of writing the ac- count ; the tumour, which had been at birth about the size of a pigeon's egg, had acquired dimensions much greater than those of the head; after birth, the limbs, which had been well formed, became in a few years curved inwards, and the woman was gradually reduced to a most miserable condition. A similar case of survival to the age of twenty is mentioned by Warner, f A case has been recently recorded in which an enormous tumour of this kind delayed the delivery of the body of the child for two hours after the birth of the head, which it equalled in size, extending from the third cervical verte- bra to the eighth rib, and containing a quart of fluid, which communicated with the ventricles of the brain.J were two tumours, the lower one of very consider- able size, and on its posterior wall constricted along the mesial line ; this tumour occupied the whole sacral region. It was distended by a clear straw-coloured fluid ; and an imperfect septum, corresponding in situation to the constriction already mentioned, projected into its cavity. The second tumour was in the lumbar region, and seemed to be a hernia of the spinal meninges, occasioned by a deficiency in the laminae on one side of only two lumbar vertebrae; it was consequently small, and communicated with the canal by a narrow neck. The lining membrane of this tumour was over- spread by an intricate plexiform arrangement of nerves. In this case there were several malforma- tions ; one ankle-joint was in a state of luxation occasioned by the non-developement of the articular extremities of tbe bones. The intestinal canal was very imperfect, the small intestine composed of a very few coils, and only the ccecal extremity of the large existing, which opened on the pubic region of the abdominal parietes. The bladder was absent, each ureter terminating in a small sac, which opened on either side of the misplaced anus just mentioned. For a space about an inch and a half in diameter, immediately around where the ureters and intestine opened, the skin of the abdomen was raw, very red, and resembled greatly the exposed mucous membrane of the bladder in cases of extrophy of that viscus. The left kidney had its hilus directed outwards instead of towards the spine ; the ureter consequently turned in behind the kidney in order to reach its destination. The uterus and vagina were natural. This case has already been alluded to in a note at page 390, vol. i. of this work. Ed.] * See Lond. Med. and Phys. Journ. vol. xlvii. p. 106. t Cases in Surgery, 4th edit. p. 134. t See Lancet, No. 261, p. 698. Cranial tumours.-—It has been already sug- gested that there were other tumours observable on the head of the child at birth of a totally different character from the encephalocele, but which might be mistaken for it; an error into which it is said that the celebrated Ledran fell: these tumours are generally the result of pres- sure during labour, producing ecchymosis and sometimes bloody effusion between the scalp and the cranial bones; they differ in all respects from the encephalocele ; they are darker co- loured, without any pulsation, situated over the solid part of the bones, especially over the parietal of one or other side; they cannot be diminished at the instant by pressure, nor does pressure cause the internal distress which results from it when applied to the hernia cerebri; and lastly, no opening can be ascertained in the bone; but with regard to this last point of diagnosis, I wish to direct attention to a cir- cumstance calculated to embarrass the examiner and lead him into error; in examining tumours of this kind, it is not unusual to find around their base a defined and slightly elevated cir- cular margin, which at first one would be al- most certain was the circumference of an aper- ture in the bone, but on further examination it will be found, that if the point of the finger be pressed within this circular margin, it will there meet with as decided and firm a resistance as it did outside of the base of the tumour. I have known this peculiarity lead to the pro- nouncing of a very erroneous opinion as to the nature and prognosis of such a tumour. These tumours have been found to contain bloody serum, or pure blood, either fluid or coagulated, and sometimes both; the effusion takes place either between the bone and the pericranium, or external to the latter and under the integuments : the former variety has been called cephalsematome by Naegele,* who, as well as Schmitt, has given an account of it. Having stated that these bloody tumours are generally the result of pressure during labour, I should add that I have reason to believe that they are formed occasionally quite indepen- dently of any such cause. I very lately at- tended a patient who gave birth to a child which had hardly arrived at seven months, with an easy and expeditious labour, yet the infant had a very large tumour covering the greater part of the right parietal bone, having all the characters of the cephalarnatome, and was not removed till (he termination of a month. Injuries of the cranial bones.—The same causes which give rise to the formation of the bloody tumours just described, not unfrequently produce fractures or depres- sions of the flat bones of the cranium, espe- cially of the parietals ; more particularly in cases of contracted pelvis, where the promon- tory of the sacrum projects considerably in- wards ; though I have known such accidents happen without the concurrence of any such state of the pelvis, but from the interposition of an arm between the head and the bony wall * Zeller, Comment, de Cephalematomate, &c. Heidelberg, 1822. , y 2