HEARING. 573 acted and rendered the membrane tense, it was much more difficult to produce manifest move- ments in the grains of sand; thus affording much reason to suppose the tensor tympani muscle is analogous in its use to the iris, and destined to preserve the organ from too strong impressions. This experiment can be best tried on the membrana tympani of the calf. In imitation of the mechanism by which the tension of the membrana tympani is effected, and with a view to determine more decisively the effects produced by variation of the tension of that membrane, Savart constructed a conical tube (fig. 262), with its apex truncated and co- Fig. 262. vered by a layer of very m I thin paper {rri), which ( was glued to the edge of / ^~J~~Z\f the opening. A little / \ wooden lever (I I), intro- / \ duced through an open- / \ ing in the side of the /..- -A tube, and resting on the L, A lower margin of this \ opening (c) as a fulcrum, was used to vary the tension of the membrane, one of its extremities being applied to the under surface of the membrane. It is evident that, by depressing the extremity of the lever that was external to the tube, the inner one would be raised, and thus the membrane stretched to a greater or less degree according to the force used ; on the other hand, by ele- vating the outer extremity, the inner one was separated from the membrane, which was ac- cordingly restored to its original tension. This little lever was employed in imitation of the handle of the malleus, which under the in- fluence of its muscles causes the variation in the tension of the membrana tympani. The artificial tympanic membrane then having been covered with a layer of sand, it was found that, under the influence of a vibrating glass, used as in the former experiments, a manifest dif- ference was produced in the movements of the grains of sand, by increasing the tension of the paper; the greater the tension, the less the height to which the grains of sand were raised ; and these movements were most extensive when the lever was withdrawn from contact, and the membrane left to itself. From these experiments Savart concludes that the membrana tympani may be considered as a body thrown into vibration by the air, and always executing vibrations equal in num- ber to those of the sonorous body which gave rise to the oscillations of the air. But what is the condition of the ossicles of the tympanum whilst the membrane is thus in vibration? The result of the following experiment affords a clue to the answer of this question. To a membrane stretched over a vessel, as in fig. 263, a piece of wood (a 6) uniform in thick- ness is attached, so that the adherent part shall extend from the circumference to the centre of the membrane, while the free portion may project beyond the circumference. When a vibrating glass is brought near this mem- brane, very regular figures are produced, which Fig. 263. however are modified by the presence of the piece of wood, and the vibrations of the mem- brane are communicated to the piece of wood, on which likewise regular figures may be pro- duced. The more extensive the membrane, the longer and thicker may be the piece of wood in which it can excite oscillations, and Savart states that, with membranes of a considerable diameter, he has produced regular vibrations in rods of glass of large dimensions. The oscillations of the piece of wood are much more distinct when the adherent portion is thinned down, as in c d, jig. 264, by which it Fig. 264. seems, as it were, more completely identified with the membrane, and consequently the oscillations of this latter are communicated di- rectly to the thinned portion of the wood, and thence extended to the thick portion a: sand spread upon a will exhibit active movements, and will produce very distinct nodal lines. Thus it may be inferred that the malleus participates in the oscillations of the tympanic membrane; and these vibrations are propagated to the incus and stapes, and thus to the membrane of the fenestra ovalis. The chain of ossicles then evi- dently performs the office of a conductor of oscillations from the membrana tympani to the membrane of the fenestra ovalis; but the mal- leus likewise has the important function under the influence of its muscles of regulating the tension of the tympanic membrane; and to allow of the changes in the position of this bone necessary for that purpose, we find it articulated with the incus by a distinct di- arthrodial joint, and between this latter bone again and the stapes there exists another and a similar joint. This mobility then of the chain of bones, and the muscular apparatus of the malleus and stapes are totally irrespec- tive of the conducting office of the bones, but have reference to the regulation of the tension of the membrane of the tympanum as well as of that of the fenestra ovalis.* We have already seen how the muscle of * The experiments of Savart above detailed have been several times carefully repeated by me with results precisely similar,