664 ANIMAL HE AT. minutes more it fell 3°, 12; in thirty minutes more 2°, 50; in twenty-five minutes more 1°, 25; in thirty minutes morel0, 25; so that in the course of four hours in all the tempe- rature declined by the amount of 18°, 12'of the centigrade scale (about 33° F.)! Not only had the temperature of the animal sunk by so large a quantity in so short a period of time, the external temperature being pleasant, but it actually could maintain its temperature at no higher a grade than 6°, 75 c. (44°, 5, F.) above that of the atmosphere. Experiments of the same kind performed on three other puppies of the same litter presented results in all respects analogous. The cooling may even go much further by protracting the period during which the young animals are kept apart from their parent. For instance, four puppies, twenty- four hours old and of much smaller size than the subjects of the former experiments, after having sunk 16° c. in four hours and thirty minutes, lost six degrees more of temperature in the succeeding eight hours and thirty mi- nutes, the air remaining all the while at 13° c. (55°, 5 F.). They consequently lost twenty- two degrees centigrade in thirteen hours; and, what is very remarkable, their final temperature was but one degree above that of the surround- ing air. Kittens and rabbits of the same age exhibited similar phenomena, if possible in a more striking degree. Some kittens were ob- served to cool twenty degrees centigrade within the short interval of three hours and a half, and some young rabbits suffered the same de- pression of temperature in two hours and ten minutes, the air being at the time at 14° c. (57°, 5 F.). These phenomena are unques- tionably among the most remarkable we wit- ness in warm-blooded animals. For here we have species of different genera of the Carni- vora and Rodentia, which at two periods of their existence present the extremes in the pro- duction of heat. They may be said to be, to all intents and purposes, cold-blooded ani- mals, with reference to temperature, during the earliest period of life; they are only truly warm blooded animals in a later stage of their existence. The same phenomena undoubtedly present themselves in many other species ; but it would not be reasonable to suppose that they were exhibited by all. The phenomena being connected with the state of constitution, it may be expected to vary in diffeient genera and families; and this, in fact, is what actually happens. A young guinea-pia, for instance, having a temperature of 38° c. (101°, 5 F.), will maintain this tem- perature when the atmosphere is mild, although separated from its mother. It is the same with the goat. These instances are enough to give us a key to the external characters in relation with the different capacities to produce heat inherent in the young Mammalia. In the first place we observe a manifest relation with the state of energy of the nervous system : on the one hand we have the puppy, the kitten, the rabbit, which are born extremely weak ; on the other we have those animals that come into the world in a condition to walk, to eat, and, as it were, furnished forth to a certain extent with the means of providing for their wants. The question, however, is to discover some zoolo- gical character in relation with these differ- ences. If this were to be derived from the state of the organs of locomotion, of the faculty of walking, we should sometimes be led into error; for man, at the period of his birth and long afterwards, is not in a condition to hold himself erect, and yet his temperature is main- tained to within one or two degrees of that of his mother, if the external temperature be but mild. There is, however, one character that appears general; this is the state of. the eyes. Those species of Mammalia which in the earlier period of their existence do not maintain their temperature, that of the external atmosphere being mild or warm, but cool down to the stundard of the cold-blooded animals, are born with their eyes closed; whilst those which main- tain their temperature, that of the external atmosphere being mild, are born with their ei/es open ; and this, whether they can walk about like the guinea-pig, the kid, &c, or cannot do so, as is the case with the human infant in par- ticular. This general view of the state of energy of the nervous system in relation with the production of heat in early life, comes in aid, in a very remarkable manner, of the general principles which have been already deduced in regard to the calorific power. In going more deeply into the subject, the confirmation becomes more manifest and more complete. The state of the eyes affords a mere external and zoological in- dication. It is but an indication of other deep modifications of the economy, which it is essential to determine more closely. Now in examining the state of the organs generally of puppies at the period of their birth, we observe a remarkable disposition of the sanguiferous system. The ductus arteriosus continues per- vious and of large size. The consequence of this structure is that a free communication is established between the arterial and venous blood, by which they are mingled in large pro- portion one with another. And here we have precisely the physiological character derived from the nature or quality of the blood which distinguishes the cold-blooded from the warm- blooded Vertebiata (in the adult age under- stood). This character is exactly the same in the other species of Mammalia which we have mentioned as losing temperature and attaining the standard of the cold-blooded tribes. On the other hand, in the guinea-pig, to take an individual instance, which from the first day of its extra-uterine existence maintains its tempera- ture nearly on a level with that of its parent when the air is temperate, the ductus arteriosus is closed immediately after birth. The arterial remaining distinct from the venous blood, this creature is therefore born with the organization characteristic of warm-blooded animals, and presents phenomena having reference to calori- fication of the same kind as adult warm-blooded animals. This relation is preserved in the young Mammalia in every modification in a pecu-