ORGAN OF HEARING. 534 dimentary state. It is in fact a mere pouch or diverticulum not at all coiled up, in which, however, can be distinguished a part corres- ponding to a lamina spiralis, which is repre- sented by a cartilage, and a vestibular and a tympanic scala, together with a cochlear fe- nestra. This analogy, much insisted on by Breschet,* I gave a brief notice of some years ago.f The cochlea is richly supplied with nerves. The spiral lamina is that part of it on which its nerves expand; this must therefore be con- sidered as forming a very essential element of the cochlea, and may be viewed as being in the economy of that part of the internal ear what the apparatus of the membraneous laby- rinth is to the vestibule and semicircular canals. The bony spiral lamina is rendered a com- plete partition between the scalae of the cochlea by a membraneous continuation, zonula mem- brarwcea lamina spiralis s. zona Valsalva, formed by the application against each other of the membranes, which line the interior of the two scalae, at the moment they are reflected from the free edge of the bony spiral lamina to the outer walls of the cochlea. Hence the spiral partition of the cochlea, when complete, is osseous at its inner or central part, and mem- braneous at its outer or peripheral. The outer part of the osseous zone of the spiral lamina is thinner than the rest; it is semi-osseous, semi-membraneous, and the membraneous spiral lamina at its junction with it presents a fine cartilaginous stripe ; hence Comparetti and Sommerrmg described the spiral lamina as composed of concentric bands or zones. They admitted four, viz. 1, the inner thick part of the bony spiral lamina ; 2, the outer thin part; 3, the cartilaginous stripe commencing the membraneous spiral lamina; and 4, the rest of the membraneous spiral lamina, or the membraneous spiral la- mina properly so called. The first zone is con- tinued into the hamulus cochlete, the second ceases towards the second turn of the cochlea, and the third and fourih are continued beyond the hamulus cochlea, forming of themselves the spiral partition in the last turn. It is sufficient to admit, with Breschet,} only three zones ; an osseous zone, a middle zone, and a membraneous zone ; the third and fourth zones of Comparetti being compre- hended under the latter. The osseous zone of the spiral lamina we have already described, and alluded to the middle zone. The latter, when it still exists in the dry bone, appears merely as the outer margin of the former. It is the narrowest of the three zones, and is most distinct in the first * Op. cit. and also Recherches Anatomiques et Physiologiques sur Forgane de l'audition chez les Oiseaux. Paris, 1836. f " Note on the ear of Birds," in the first and only volume of the second series of the Edinburgh Journal of Natural and Geographical Science. Edinburgh, 1831. | Op. cit. chap. ix. s. cxcix. Fig. 234. B The axis of the cochlea and spiral lamina isolated, in order to show the disposition of the three zones. The vestibular lamina of the osseous zone is re- moved. ( From Breschet.) A, natural size. B, magnified. a. trunk of the cochlear nerve ; 4. distribution of the filaments of this nerve in the osseous zone ; c. nervous anastomoses in the middle zone; d. membraneous zone ; e. osseous substance of the axis; /. helicotrema or hole of communication betwixt the two scalae. turn of the cochlea. Breschet describes it as composed of the membranes lining the interior of the two scalae, where they first meet each other in passing from the bony spiral lamina, together with osseous particles deposited be- tween them. In this interstice between the membranes also are contained the last rami- fications of the filaments of the cochlear nerve, still enveloped by their neurilemma, and sprinkled over by the small bony particles just mentioned. Different from the middle zone, the mem- braneous zone goes on increasing in breadth, though not regularly, from the base to the summit of the cochlea. It is the longest and most extensive of the three zones. It is it alone which extends into the last turn of the cochlea. According to Breschet the mem- braneous zone should be composed of three layers, the two exterior of which should be, as already said, formed by the membranes lining the interior of the seals, and the mid- dle one by the expansion and interlacing of the neurilemmatic sheaths from the middle zone; but these layers are so thin and so closely united that they are inseparable, and constitute a membrane of great thinness and transparency, on which, however, bloodvessels can be easily seen. The membraneous zone presents a central margin continuous with the rest of the spiral lamina, except in the third turn of the cochlea, where this margin forms nearly the third of the circumference of the helicotrema, and where it runs into the peripheral margin at an acute angle. The peripheral margin, which is much thicker than the rest of the mem- braneous zone, is pervaded by a vascular sinus, like that which in the eye runs round the circumference of the cornea at the insertion of the iris.