ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HEART. 638 reddish lines, and possessing all the characters of encephaloid. In the second case, the external wall of the right ventricle was occu- pied by a tumour extending from its apex to its base, which projected so far externally as to lead him to mistake it for a supernumerary heart, and likewise protruded internally into the cavity of the ventricle. In a case which I saw myself, the tumour resembled the well-known encephaloid or cancerous tumour of the liver, being, like it, raised above the surrounding muscular structure, and irregular on its surface. Melanosis.—This deposit is also found very distinctly in the heart. It appears in the form of small spots under the pericardium or endo- cardium, or as tumours in the substance of the ventricle. In a specimen in the Museum of King's College, London, the melanotic deposits are situated, some beneath the pericardium covering the right ventricle, and others on the carneae columnae of the same cavity,immediately subjacent to the endocardium. Neither Andral nor Bouillaud notices the occurrence of me- lanosis in the heart. Hypertrophy of the heart.—When the walls of any of the heart's cavities experience an in- crease of thickness, owing to the developement of the muscular substance, they are said to be in a state of hypertrophy; and there is no morbid state of this organ which is more fre- quently brought under the notice of the phy- sician than this, as affecting the parietes of one or more of its cavities. There is no alteration in the muscular texture apparent to the naked eye, except, perhaps, a slight increase of the red colour—the heart is firm, dense, and elastic ; in short, it presents all those characters which we so often see manifested in the ex- ternal voluntary muscles, the developement of which is increased by frequent use.* Hyper- trophy may affect all the cavities simultaneously, but in general it is limited to one or at most two cavities. The left ventricle is that in which it most frequently occurs, next the right, and lastly and rarely the auricles. Nor does the hypertrophy affect necessarily the whole pa- rietes of the cavity, but sometimes it is limited to a small portion, or to the septum, or to one or more of the carneae columns. In some cases, as Andral remarks, the thickening may be at its maximum at the base of the heart, and diminish gradually towards its apex, which sometimes retains its natural thinness, when all the rest of the parietes are three or even four times as thick as natural; or at other times, as Cruveilhier observes, becomes so thin that one is astonished that perforation or dila- tation of the heart at its apex is not more com- * Dr. Williams mentions that in leucophlegmatic subjects the muscular texture is soft and flabby and of a duller colour. This is obviously a con- dition resulting from other causes, and not a cha- racter of the hypqTtrophous heart as such. And the threads or laminas of dirty white tissue inter- mingled with the muscular tissue, described by him, seem clearly the result of the inflammation which caused the concomitant adhesion of the peri- cardium. In the same light I would regard the dense fibrous tissue described and delineated by Carswell.—See Med. Gax. vol. xvi. p. 915. mon. In other individuals again the thickening is equal and uniform from the base to the apex, which then loses its pointed form and acquires a rounded shape. Lastly, it sometimes happens that the hypertrophy is greatest about midway between the apex and base of the heart, or is even exclusively confined to that part. When the septum is principally affected, the capacity of the right ventricle is so diminished that it sometimes looks like a small appendix attached to the left ventricle.* When the hypertrophy affects chiefly or exclusively the right ventricle, the apex of the heart seems to be formed by it, whereas in the normal state the apex belongs to the left ventricle. An hypertrophous state of the parietes of all the cavities not only affects the form of the heart by changing it from the oblong to the spherical, but, as was first noticed by Dr. Hope,f its position is altered ; '* as the dia- phragm does not retire sufficiently to yield space downwards for the enlarged organ, it assumes an unnaturally horizontal position, encroaching so far upon the left cavity of the chest as sometimes to force the lung upwards as high as the level of the fourth rib or even higher." BertinJ distinguishes three varieties of hy- pertrophy of the heart. 1. That in which the hypertrophy is not accompanied with any alte- ration in the capacity of the cavities of the heart—simple hypertrophy. 2. That in which there is dilatation of the cavity along with the increased substance of its walls—excentric hyper-trophy or active aneurism of Corvisart. 3. Where the capacity of the ventricle is dimi- nished as if the walls had encroached by their increase of thickness upon the cavity, or as Bouillaud expresses it, as if the internal mus- cular layers and the carneae columnae were prin- cipally the seat of hypertrophy—concentric hy- pertrophy.^ Of these the most frequent is that which is accompanied by dilatation, the dilata- * Cruveilhier doubts the occurrence of partial hypertrophy affecting the septum or one or more carneas columnae. t Cyclop, of Pract. Med. art. Hypertrophy of the Heart. | Maladies du Cceur. § A certain standard of health is absolutely necessary to enable us to determine as to the ex- istence of disease. With this view we transcribe here the table of weight and dimensions drawn up by Bouillaud as the average of health. In an adult of ordinary size and good constitu- tion the mean weight = 8 to 9 oz. ; mean circumfe- reuce = 8 to 9 inches; mean of the longitudinal and transverse diameters = 3i inches (the latter generally predominates slightly over the former) ; the mean of the antero-posterior diameter =2 inches. Mean thickness of the walls of left ventricle at the base = . . . . 6 to 7 lines. Ditto, right ventricle at the base = . 2i lines. Ditto, left auricle = . . .14 lines. Ditto, right auricle=. . . 1 line. The average capacity of the ventricles is suffi- cient to contain a hen's egg (that of the right ven- tricle slightly exceeding the left). For some useful observations on this subject, and on the normal weight, bulk, &c. of the heart in relation toother viscera, see Dr. Clendinning's Lec- tures in Med. Gazette, vol. xvit