HERMAPHRODITISM. 6V6 sionally found unisexual, in consequence of the arrested developement of one order of their sexual organs ; and again,though still more rarely, from an excess of evolution, a double set of male parts, or a double set of stamens, is seen developed on some of the individual flowers. In the animal kingdom we find instances of a perfect hermaphroditic structure as the normal form of the sexual type in the Trematodes and Cestoides among the Entozoa, in the abranchial Annelida, in the Planaria, and in many of the Mollusca, particularly in the Pteropoda, and in several families among the Gasteropoda. In some of these animals that are thus naturally hermaphroditic, the fecundation of the female organs of the bisexual individual is accom- plished by its own male organs; but in others, although the anatomical structure is strictly her- maphroditic, yet the union of two, or, as some- times happens, of more individuals is neces- sary to complete the sexual act; and during it the female organs of each are respectively im- pregnated by the male organs of the other. In the Nematodes and Acanthocephali among the Entozoa, and in the Cephalopoda and Pecti- nibranchiate Gasteropoda among the Mollusca, as well as in all symmetrically formed animals, or, in other words, in those whose bodies are composed of an union of two similar halves, as in Insects, and the Arachnida, Crustacea, and Vertebrata, the male and female organs of re- production are placed each upon a different individual of the species, constituting the ba- sis of distinction between the two sexes. In such animals a mixture of more or fewer of the reproductive organs of the two sexes upon the same individual appears occasionally as a result of abnormal formation ; but the male and female organs that coexist in these cases are seldom or never so anatomically perfect as to enable the malformed being to exercise the proper physiological function of either or of both of the two sexes. This form of true her- maphroditism or abnormal mixture upon the same individual of the organs of the two sexes in the higher animals, has been termed unnatu- ral or monstrous, in opposition to the natural hermaphroditism which exists as the normal type of sexual structure in some of the lower orders of animals, and in phanerogamic plants. The malformation itself is observed to differ greatly, both in nature and degree, in different cases, varying from the presence or superaddi- tion of a single organ only of theoppositeor non- predominant sex, up to the development and co-existence of almost all the several parts of the two sexes upon the same individual. In describing the malformation, we shall classify its various and diversified forms under the three general orders pointed out in our table, including, 1st, lateral; 2dly, transverse ; and 3dly, double or vertical hermaphroditism. A. Lateral hermaphroditism. — According to the opinion of many physiologists of the pre- sent day, the two lateral symmetrical halves of the body, and even the two halves of all its single mesial organs, are originally developed in a great degree independently of one another. Granting this point in the doctrine of eccentric developement, we can easily conceive how, in the same embryo, an ovary might be formed on one Wolffian body, and a testicle on the other; or, in other words, how female organs might be developed on one side, and male organs on the other. It is the existence of such an unsymme- trical type of sexual structure upon the two op- posite sides of the body of the same individual, that constitutes the distinctive characteristic of lateral hermaphroditism. Instances of this species of true hermaphro- ditic malformation have been observed in many different classes of animals, as well as in the human subject. Individual examples are sometimes observed among insects, particularly among the Lepido- ptera, in which all the different parts of the two sides or lateral halves of the body are formed after opposite sexual types. We shall after- wards have occasion to notice different exam- ples of this form of lateral hermaphroditism as seen in the general conformation of the body, but may here state that in two or three in- stances such malformed insects have been care- fully dissected, and found to present, in the ana- tomical structure of their sexual organs, a mix- ture of the organs of the male and female. In a MelitcBu didymus described by Klug,* the general external characters were those of the male, but the left eye, palpus, and antenna, and the left sexual fang, were smaller than in individuals belonging to this sex; and the left antenna was annulated with white and yellow at the apex, while the right was of one colour. On dissection, the various male sexual parts were present, and they had appended to them a free female ovary situated upon the left, and united to no other organ. In a Gastrophaga quercifolia dissected by Schultz, and described by Rudolphi,f the left side appeared externally male, and the right female, with a distinct line of separation through- out the whole body. On dissection, Schultz dis- covered an ovarium upon the right side, and two testes upon the left. The oviduct of the ovary joined the canal of the vasa deferentia about two inches before its termination; and the spermatheca was connected with the com- mon evacuating duct. The two testicles on the left side were placed one behind the other, and connected by a thin vessel. The spermatic duct belonging to one of the testicles imme- diately received, as in the Lepidoptera, the spi- ral vessel ; further beyond, and on the opposite side, a second vessel, which appeared to con- sist of the rudimental spermatic duct of the other testicle, opened into it. The oviduct of the ovary joined the canal of the vasa deferen- tia about two inches before its termination in the penis, and a female spermatheca was con- nected with the common distended evacuating duct. I * Fioriep's Notizen, vol. x. p. 183. t Abhandlung. der Koenig. Akad. zu Berlin fur 1825, s. 55. f See also drawings of the body and genital or- gans of an hermaphrodite Sphinx populi in Fischer's Oryctographie du Gouveinement de Moscou (Mos- cow, 1830..)