223 FACE. Triangularis nasi (transversalis nasi, com* pressor naris, Albin.) (n, fig. 134), is a very thin triangular muscle, placed transversely on the middle of the side of the nose. To expose its origin, the levators of the upper lip must be turned aside, and the skin of the nose very carefully dissected off'. Its origin is then seen as a narrow slip from the inner part of the canine fossa, below the ala nasi; from this point the fibres radiate inwards and upwards, and expand into a very thin aponeurosis, which crosses the ala nasi and the lateral car- tilage of the nose to be confounded along the median line with that of the opposite muscle, and with the pyramidalis. Bourgery describes two other origins, one superficial, attached to the skin below and to the outside of the ala nasi, and a middle one crossing and connected with the fibres of the levator of the upper lip. Relations.—It is covered at its origin by the levator labii superioris alreque nasi, and inter- nally by the integuments to which it super- ficially adheres; it rests on part of the upper jaw, on the cartilages of the ala, and on the lateral cartilage. Its action is yet undetermined by anato- mists, some considering it a compressor or constrictor of the nose, others as a dilator or elevator. Cruveilhier thinks that its action varies with the form of the ala, which, when convex, makes it a compressor, when concave a dilator. Perhaps, as M. Bourgery suggests, its action depends upon which extremity is fixed, and that, when its base is fixed, its superficial fibres dilate the nostrils and draw the lip upwards and inwards, and that, when the muscle acts towards its maxillary attach- ment, it compresses the nostril. Depressor ala nasi (musculus myrtiformis), (fig. 134.) To expose this muscle the upper lip should be reversed, and the mucous mem- brane divided on each side of the franum labii. It is a short flat muscle, radiating upwards from the myrtiform fossa of the upper jaw, where it arises towards the ala of the nose, into the posterior part of which it is inserted below and internal to the dilator nasi. This muscle really consists of two sets of fibres, one which has been just described, the other which is in front of this and is attached above to the ala and septum of the nose, below to the inner surface of the orbicular fibres. The first set, or the naso-maxillary fibres, are de- pressors of the alae and contractors of the nostrils; the second, or naso-labial fibres, are elevators of the upper lip. Relations.—It is covered by the mucous membrane of the upper lip, by the orbicularis oris, and by the levator labii superioris alseque nasi; it covers the myrtiform fossa of the upper jaw : its inner border is separated from its fellow by the franum. A dilator ala nasi is described by Bourgery as a little triangular muscle, consisting of fibres placed underneath the skin lying on the outside of the ala nasi, from the posterior part of whose cartilages the fibres arise by a narrow point, and then radiate upwards, outwards, Fig. 135. and downwards, to be mingled with the fibres of the elevators of the lip, the orbicularis, and the naso-labial, all being attached to the skin. This muscle, ^according to Bourgery, directly draws the ala outwards, and is consequently a dilator of the nostril. The labial region presents in the centre, 1. a sphincter (the orbicularis oris), with which are associated two muscles on each side, the depressor labii superioris and the levator labii inferioris: all these are contractors or com- pressors of the lips: 2. a number of anta- gonist muscles or dilators, which comprise many muscles, which on each side radiate from the lips, or from their commissure at different angles. They are, above, the levator labii superioris proprius and the zygomaticus minor; below, the depressor labii inferioris at the commissure, the buccinator, the levator anguli oris, and the depressor anguli oris. By some anatomists the muscles of this region of the face are divided into, 1. the sphincter, and, 2. the elevators and depressors of the lips. Orbicularis or sphincter oris (labial,Chauss. and Dum.) (o o, fig. 134) is a thick oval muscle, placed transversely around the aper- ture of the mouth, which varies in «ize in dif- ferent persons, but bears no relation to the size of the buccal cavity. It extends above from the free border of the upper lip to the nostrils, and inferiorly from the free border of the lower lip to the depression above the chin. Its fibres, arranged in successive layers, consist of two semi-elliptical halves, one superior, the other inferior, which are on each side united externally to the commissure of the lips by decussating each other, and mingle also at their circumference with the dilators which are attached to it. These fibres are concentric, with their curve towards the lips; the most central run nearly in a horizontal direction along the borders of the lips, and take a di- rection forwards, which gives the prominence to the lips which is so remarkable in the Negro. The outer fibres are more curved, and receive between their layers the extensors of the lips, which are attached around them. This is the only muscle of the face which has no attachment to bone. Relations.—The anterior surface is closely