785 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. half an inch ; in this particular this case dif- fered from those given by Dupuytren, because in his cases the range of motion of ascent and descent of the head of the femur on the os innominatum, which could be communicated, amounted to two inches.* The body having been placed on its face, and the integuments removed from the glutaeus maximus, this muscle looked somewhat paler in its colour than natural, its lower margin (which in the natural state has a descent of obliquity amount- ing to three inches) was placed nearly trans- versely. When this muscle was removed, the trochanter major presented itself; it lay on the dorsum of the ilium, near to the ischiatic notch, above the pyriformis and below the range of the glutaei (medius et minimus), which were in a state of atrophy. The head of the femur, smaller than usual, was in advance of the great trochanter, and was placed immedi- ately external to the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, and was here covered immediately by the capsular ligament and some scattered fibres of the lesser glutaei: the tensor vaginee femoris lay in front of the head of the bone. The pyriformis and quadratus were very oblique m their course, passing upwardsand out- wards : all the muscles in the front of the thigh, such as the pectinalis and other adductors, passed from the os pubis outwards with a degree of ob- liquity three or four inches less than natural. The psoas magnus was drawn a little outwards, and its edges were twisted so that the internal edge was diiected backwards and its external edge forwards. All the muscles of this ex- tremity were smaller and less developed than those of the other; but with the exception of part of the obturator externns which looked fatty, their fibres had a natural appearance. There were no marks of previous violent injury or chronic disease. The capsular ligament was attached as usual to the circumference of the acetabulum on one part, and to the base of the neck of the femur on the other; it was strong and at the same time elongated, so as to allow the head of the femur to rest on the dorsum of the ilium, but ligamentary bands passed from this part of the ilium to the external surface of the capsule, where it invested the head of the femur; these must have served to strengthen and fix the capsule and thus prevent any great range of motion over the ilium. When this capsule was cut into, the head of the femur was found somewhat conical in its form and much smaller than usual; the cartilaginous covering, thin and of an azure hue, did not form a very uniform or perfect covering for the head of the bone ; there seemed no deficiency of synovial fluid within the joint. The ii.ter-articular liga- ment or ligamentum teres, as it is called, pre- sented a very remarkable appearance ; it was of unusual dimensions, being more than four inches long; of a yellowish colour like tendon, and as thick as the tendo Achillis near the os * See Dr. Mutton's account in the Dublin Jour- nal, vol. viii. VOL. It, calcis; instead of being firm, round, and thick, it was soft and could be easily spread out to the breadth of an inch : its fibres were con- nected by means of a thin transparent mem- brane like a synovial structure. This sub- stitute for the normal ligamentum teres was continuous with the cotyloid ligament, or arose from that part of it which completes the notch of the acetabulum within. From this origin or attachment, the ligament passed, as it were, from within outwards and upwards to be at- tached to the bead of the femur, presenting in its course an inverted arch, the cavity up- wards and inwards, the convexity downwards and outwards. On its inferior surface it cor- responded to the head of the femur, where it was hollowed out from before backwards, so as to accommodate itself to the head of the bone, for which it formed a kind of cup which follow- ed the movements of the femur, alibrding it always a receptacle as the inter-articular carti- lage does for the condyle of the lower jaw. This broad ligament had no connexion by synovial folds or fibrous productions with the bottom of the acetabulum. The cotyloid ligament was flattened out round the brim of the acetabulum, and was otherwise imperfect: the fatty and vascular cellular structure named Haversian gland existed in rather large quantity. When a comparative view of the bones of the pelvisand lowerextremity of each side was taken, it was manifest that the left lower extremity was in a state of atrophy, that the thigh-bone was straight and slender, and that the atrophy ex- tended downwards to the bones of the leg, and included also the whole of the left os innominatum ; the anterior spines and crest of the ilium were inverted, the internal iliac fossa was much deepened, and the external surface of the ilium rendered more convex than usual. The rami of the os pubis and ischium seemed more attenuated and slender than those of the opposite side, and the foramen ovale wider. The circumference of the acetabulum of this side included nearly as large a space as usual, but the upper and outer portion of its brim or its supeicihum was deficient. This cavity was shallow, its surface scabrous or uneven, and was no where invested with cartilage; a flattened surface above it marked the point of habitual contact of the head of the femur and ilium: the bone was not excavated in this situation to receive the head of the femur, which was re- tained here, as already mentioned, by liga- mentous bands, which extended from this part of the ilium to the external surface of the cap- sular ligament. The femur, it has been said, was atrophied at this side and slender, but it was of the same length as the opposite bone, diminished only in the circumference of the shaft. The axis of the head and neck was directed from the shaft of the bone upwards and inwards, but it was straighter, and its di- rection was by several degrees more forward than natural. As we have detailed this case merely as an illustration of the congenital malformation of the hip, and do not wish here to enter into minute particulars as to the morbid appear- 3 F