ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HAND. 515 were also involved in the disease, and the three lignant in its nature; most of those consulted metacarpal bones supporting the three fingers on the case recommended amputation, but already mentioned were also much enlarged ; in Doctor O'Beirne conceived the happy idea, a word, all the bones of the metacarpus and and speedily put it into execution, of cutting fingers, with the exception of those of the out the morbid mass. Although it was rightly thumb and little finger viewed externally, conceived that the index finger was but little seemed to enter into the formation of one mor- diseased, and that the ring-finger was merely bid mass, the size and form of which maybe best enveloped in the tumour, still the thought of conceived by a reference to the annexed figure, preserving either of these fingers could not be The chief bulk for a moment entertained, as the metacarpal Fig. 227. of this large bony bones supporting them were known to be dis- tumour existed eased. It was plain that the thumb and little posteriorly, where finger only could be saved, and the lines of it extended as incision which were followed may be easily high up as the line imagined. The operation was performed thus : of the wrist-joint, one incision was commenced at the root of the and completely little finger at its radial side, which was ex- concealed the tended deeply through the soft parts upwards bones of the car- and backwards as high nearly as the wrist-joint; pus. The tumour the termination of this incision here was met did not extend it- by another, which was commenced at the first self directly for- interosseous space between the index finger and ward towards the the thumb; the lines of these incisions were palm of the hand, followed deeply, and, with the assistance of the but passed down- knife and metacarpal saw, the whole of the wards; at its re- morbid mass was removed; the hemorrhage mote extremity was soon arrested, and dressings applied with a the last phalanx bandage to approximate gradually the thumb of the middle fin- and little finger. The wound was at first refrac- ger was to be seen tory, and cartilaginous granulations sprang up; projecting; this phalanx was itself, however, to repress these, Dr. O'Beirne found nothing perfectly free from morbid change, and the so effectual as the actual cautery, and under its integuments covering it possessed their natural influence the wound healed kindly, sensibility. The circumference of the tumour It is now nine years since the operation was measured accurately twenty-four inches; nume- performed, and the man has, during that period, rous very large protuberances shewed themselves enjoyed vigorous health ; the thumb and little every where on its surface, which yielded but finger have approached each other, and in- httle to pressure. Three of these tumours had creased much in size, power, and usefulness, ulcerated at their most prominent points, and and \he is fully competent to fojlow his oc- by circular depressed openings (nearly an inch cupation, which is that of a land-surveyor, in diameter) gave exit to a thin foetid ichorous We have, in our collection at the Richmond matter, which continued to flow from the in- school, a cast of this remarkable hand ; and the terior of the morbid mass These orifices, which morbid mass which was removed is preserved presented some loose granulations, readily ad- in the Museum of the Royal College of Sur- mitted the introduction of a probe, which could geons, Dublin. A longitudinal section has been be then freely moved in the interior of these made of the tumour : one half has been sub- cavities, each of which was large enough to jected to long maceration, and dried ; and this contain an ordinary hen's egg. The integu- half exhibits well the thin osseous shell which ments every where over the whole of this mor- encloses the cellular and reticulated bony struc- bid growth had a perfectly healthy aspect, and ture of the whole mass;—this portion of the were freely moveable on this immense tumour, section shews, in short, the true structure of the except at the borders of the circular apertures bony basis or skeleton (if we can so say) of the already mentioned. The disease existed for disease (fig. 228). The other half of the section has been preserved in spirits, and in the line of division shews a smooth cartilaginous surface, and several excavations lined by a smooth membrane, which had enclosed an albuminous fluid. Some of these cavities were complete isolated cysts, buried deep in the in- terior of the cartilaginous mass; but the contents of three of these cysts had made their way ex- 2 m 2 many years, having begun, as the patient stated, when he was a boy. The disease was unaccompanied by pain, and the man's health continued good until the pe- riod when the tumour had ulcerated; after which he became somewhat debilitated by the exhaust- ing effect of the sanious discharge on his con- stitution, and his mind was depressed with the idea of his being afflicted with a disease so formidable in appearance, and which hitherto had resisted, nay increased under, all treatment, and deprived him altogether of the means of earning a livelihood. Although there was some difference of opinion as to the name by which this disease of the bone should be designated, it was agreed that there was nothing really ma-