ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 92 ning from the abdominal cavity towards the tail, placed one above another with short distances between them ; the other of perpendicular plates, forming, along with the other series, small quad- rangular cells, which are filled with a semi-gela- tinous transparent substance. This structure is divided longitudinally into two pairs of distinct organs, one considerably larger than the other. The greater pair (k k, fig. 49) lies above the other, and immediately beneath the long mus- cles of the tail. They are separated from one another by part of these muscles, by the air- bladder, and by a central membranous partition. They occupy a large portion of the lower and lateral parts of the body, and are covered exter- nally only by the common integuments. The smaller pair are covered also by the muscles of the caudal fin. Both pairs of organs are some- what angular in their transverse section, trun- cated anteriorly, tapering towards the tail. In theGymnotus dissected by John Hunter,* which was about two feet four inches long, the large Fig. 49. The surface of the electrical organs of the Gymnotus, on the right side, after removal of the integuments. a, the lower jaw. b, the abdomen, c, anus, d, pectoral fin. e, dorsal surface of fish. //, anal fin. gg, skin turned back, h h, lateral muscles of the anal fin turned back with the skin, to expose the small electrical organ, i, part of this muscle left in its place, k k, the large electrical organ. / I, the small electrical oiyan. m m, the substance which divides the large organ from the small, n, a space from which the partition is removed. organ of one side was about one inch and one quarter in breadth at its thickest part, and in this space there were thirty-four longitudinal septa. (In a specimen examined by Dr. Knox, there were thirty-one of these septa.f) The smaller organ in the same fish was about half an inch in breadth, and contained fourteen septa, which were slightly waved. The per- pendicular or transverse membranes are placed much more closely toge- ther than those of the other series. John Hunter and Dr. Knox counted two hundred and forty of them in an inch. They are of a softer texture than the longitudinal plates. It ap- pears probable (as Hunter suggested) that these septa, longitudinal and transverse, answer the same purpose as the columns in the torpedo. La- cepede calculated that the discharg- ing surface of these organs in a fish four feet in length is, at least, one hundred and twenty-three square feet in extent; while in a torpedo of ordi- nary size, the discharging surface is only about fifty-eight feet square. The nerves of the electrical organs of the Gymnotus are derived from the spinal marrow alone. They are very large and numerous, and are divided into very fine twigs on the cells of the organs. Dr. Knox counted fifteen nervous branches distributed to each inch of the organ. He describes them as being flattened like the ci- liary nerves of Mammalia. Each * Phil. Trans. Ixv. 1775. t Edin. Journ. of Science, i. 96. 1824. A transverse section of the Gymnotus. a, the surface of the side of the fish, b, the anal fin. c c, cut ends of the dorsal muscles, d, cavity of the air-bladder. e, body of the spine. /, spinal marrow, g, aorta and vena cava, h h, cut ends of the two large electrical organs, i i, cut ends of the two small organs, k, partition between the two organs.