INSECTA. 907 and the triangular suture, particularly the ante- rior portion, which divides the epicranium from the clypeus posterior (d), is very distinct. At the anterior external angle of this part of the clypeus, as in Coleoptera, are situated the antenna (a), two short and thick porrected organs, covered with a few long hairs, and which, although apparently composed each of two joints, appear to be rigid and motionless. Immediately anterior to the clypeus posterior, and divided from it by a distinct suture, is a short lunated plate (d*), the clypeus anterior. The cornua of this part are extended laterally at the sides of the mouth, and are continuous with a portion of the under surface of the head (,/') that bounds the labium. Between the two cornua of the upper surface is extended a strong and somewhat horny membrane (e), the proper labrum, which is continuous with a similar membrane on the under surface (<), the labium, which thus forms the orifice of the mouth, the parts of which do not appear to have been sufficiently examined in this order. Thus, although the entrance to the mouth is indicated by a distinctly marked labrum and labium, scarcely more developed than in Coleoptera, the habits of the insect require that it should also be furnished with a strong sucking tube. Accordingly we find that within this mem- branous mouth are situated two curved horny plates, a little convex on their external, but concave on their internal surface, and capable of being protruded to some distance. They are directed downwards, and when approximated form a tube analogous to that of Lepidoptera. These parts have been described by Curtis as the maxilla: (g), of which they seem to be the proper analogues, so that in the Ilomaloptera the maxillae form the sheath or outer part of the sucking tube. At the base of these parts, within the cavity of the mouth, are two horny margins fringed with dark hairs, which are probably rudimental maxillary palpi. In the centre of the mouth is situated an elongated slender organ (*), which is folded at an angle like the proboscis of Diptera, but is retractile within the mouth, and extends backwards to the entrance to the oesophagus. It consists of three parts, an inferior one which is strong, horny, and forms a groove or canal, the upper surface of which is covered by another smaller piece, and the two inclose between them a third setiform organ. Upon the precise nature of these parts we do not offer a positive opinion; the inferior one, which is continuous with the inflected portion of the labium, seems to repre- sent an elongated portion of that organ, and the middle one probably is the lingua, in which case the upper one would answer to a similarly elongated portion of the labrum. The under surface of the head is divided by a deep incisure anteriorly, the margins of which are covered with stiff hairs and form the lateral boundary of the mouth. The mention (/), described as such by Curtis, is a strong convex plate, divided also at its anterior part by a con- tinuation of the incisure just noticed. The cornea (c), of an oval convex shape, are situated more on the upper than on the lateral part of the head, but the ocelli in this insect are entirely wanting, unless we regard as a large ocellus a convex plate situated in the middle of the most posterior part of the epicranium (6*). In the other genera of this order, as in Hamo- bora, the head is more orbicular and less flat- tened ; the epicranium is broad and distinct, and the suture between this part and the clypeus posterior is strongly marked. In Melophagus, the tick or sheep-louse, the maxillae are of considerable length, and the retractile portion of the labium inclosing the lingua is of considerable strength. The ocelli are present, in- serted in little excavations in Hamobora, but ab- sent in Melophagus. In Ni/cteribida the head offers a most anomalous condition of parts, its form being, as described by Latreille, that of a reversed cone. We have had no opportu- nities of examining for ourselves either the head or parts of the mouth, which, according to Messrs. Curtis* and Westwood,t are styliform, and analogous to those of Hippobosca. In Aphaniptera the head is compressed from side to side, but we have not yet identified its primary parts. Its chief characteristics are its extreme narrowness, the situation of its antenna;, and the peculiarity of its organs of vision, the corneas of the proper eyes being each simple and not compound as in other insects. The mouth is formed upon the same general principles as in the blood-sucking Diptera, being composed of six primary parts adapted for piercing the skin, and occasioning the pain which distinguishes the puncturing of these troublesome insects. In Aptera, all of which, like the insects of the two preceding orders, are parasitic upon the bodies of other animals, the mouth in one family, the true Pediculida, is formed for suck- ing, but in the other, the Nirmida, it is dis- tinctly mandibulated, and approaches the usual type of mandibulated insects. In Hemiptera the head is often flattened and somewhat triangular, and the mouth is rostri- form as in some of the Diptera, but the sheath of the organ is formed entirely by the labium (Jig. 382, k). The corneae are usually very prominent, and are placed at the posterior angles of the head. The epicranium is distinct, but its occipital portion is sunk into a notch in the prothorax. The ocelli are usually two in number, placed on the most posterior part of the epicranium, and are constant throughout the order in the perfect state, but are not deve- loped in the larva or pupa. The division of the head into its primary parts is very distinct in some genera. In Coreus marginatus the epicranial suture is strongly marked along the middle line as far as the space between the corneae, where it joins the triangular suture which passes outwards immediately behind the inser- tion of the antenna?, bounding the clypeus posterior. In some specimens, but more par- ticularly in the pupa, a faint longitudinal suture extends forwards over the clypeus as far as the * British Entomology, pi. 277. t On Nycteribia, in Transactions of the Zoologi- cal Society of London, vol. i. p. 279.