733 HERMAPHRODITISM. from the almost universal imperfection, in an anatomical point of view, of the malformed or- gans, yet we have, on the other hand, no very ra- tional ground, except that of the experience of all observers up to tiie present date, for denying entirely and unconditionally the utter possibi- lity of it. And peihaps we should look upon this possibility with a less degree of scepticism when we consider that a double hermaphrodi- tism exists as the normal sexual condition of some of the lower tribes of animated beings, and at the same time take into account the fact of the more or less direct communication which has been generally found to exist between the female uterus and the male passages, in cases of lateral and of complex hermaphroditism in the human subject and in quadrupeds. In one of the cases of hermaphroditism in the goat, previously quoted from Mayer, and where there weie present two male testicles, epididymes, vasa deferentia, and vesiculse semi- nales, and a female vagina, uterus and Fallo- pian tubes, with a body at the abdominal ex- tremity of one of these tubes that was supposed by Mayer to resemble a collection of Graafian vesicles, the male vasa deferentia opened into the female vagina; and its cavity with that of the uterus, and of all the male sexual canals, was distended with a whitish fluid of the odour and colour of male semen, and containing, ac- cording to Bergmann, the chemical principle proper to that secretion. It is not, therefore, altogether without some appearance of founda- tion in fact, that Mayer has added to the history of this case the following proolematical remark : " Fuit ergo revera hermaphroditus semetipsum fcecundare studens."* In a similar strain Dr. Harlan has added to the account that he has given of the very com- plete case of hermaphroditism already men- tioned as met with in the Borneo ourang- outang, the following observations and queries. " Admitting," he remarks, " what in reality appeared to be the fact, that all the essential organs of both sexes were present in this indi- vidual, had the subject lived to adult age, most interesting results might have been elicited. Could not the animal have been impregnated by a male individual, by rupturing the mem- brane closing the vulva ? or by masturbation, might not the animal have impregnated itself? by this means exciting the testicles to discharge their seminal liquor into its own vagina. The imperfection of the urethra most probably would have prevented the animal from ejecting the semen into the vagina of another indivi- dual."! It has been sometimes urged as an argument conclusively illustrative of the fact of a double hermaphrodite impregnating itself, that in the hermaphrodite Gustrophoga pini described by Scopoli,]; the insect is stated to have been seen to advance its penis and copulate with its own female organs; and afterwards, we are inform- ed, the female side laid eggs from which young * Icones, &c. p. 20. t Medical and Physical Researches, pp. 23, 24. $ Introd. ad Hist. Nat. p. 416. caterpillars were produced. Before, however, admitting this case to present an incontroverti- ble instance of absolute hermaphroditism, with the functions of the two sets of sexual organs existing in a perfect condition upon the same individual, it is necessary to recollect a possible source of fallacy in this circumstance, that female Gastrophagi have been observed to lay fertile eggs, although they had not had pre- viously any connection with the male, as re- marked by Professor Baster* in one instance in a female Gustropluiga quercifolia, and in ano- ther in the Gastrophaga pini by Suckow.f The same fact is further alleged to have been ob- served in some few instances by Pallas, Trevi- ranus, Bernouilli, and others,! in regard to in- dividuals belonging to some other of the higher orders of insects and animals, as in the Lii/uoeus auriculariaS} and Helix vivipara\\ among Mol- lusca, thus bringing them in this respect into analogy with the Aphides and Cyprides. CAUSES OF HERMAPHRODITIC MALFORMATION. As yet we possess very little accurate know- ledge either in respect to the mode in which the determining causes of hermaphroditic mal- formation act, or the nature of these causes themselves. Most of the varieties of spurious herma- phroditism may, as we have just explained, be traced to an arrest in the development of the sexual organs at one or other period of their evolution, in consequence of which some of those types of structure in these parts which were intended to be temporary and transitory only, are rendered fixed or permanent in their character. Our knowledge of the more imme- diate causes of such arrested development in these and in other individual parts and organs of the body, is as yet extremely limited, and for the discussion of it we must refer to another part of the present work, (see article Mon- strosities). We may, however, in reference to the particular forms of arrested development observed in hermaphroditism, remark that in consequence of the great influence which, as we have already pointed out, is exercised by morbid states of the ovaries and testicles, in retarding or preventing the evolution of the sexual apparatus and characters after birth, it has been suggested with considerable probabi- lity by Meckel^! and Isidore St. Hilaire,** that in their ultimate analysis certain cases of her- maphroditic malformation may be traced in the course of their causation to morbid influences exercised in the early embryo, at a period more or less near to conception, upon the ovaries or testicles, or upon those organs of a neuter or yet undetermined sex which after- wards assume the structure of one or other of * Mem. de l'Acad. Roy. de Berlin, 1772. t Heusinger's Zeitschrift fiir Organ. Phys. Bd. ii. s. 263. t Burmeister's Entomology, s. 204. Burdach's Physiologie, t. i. § 44, 4-8. « Isis for 1817, p. 320. |] Spallanzani, Mem. sur la Resp. p. 268. II Anat. Geu. t. i. p. 609. ** Hist, des Anomal. de l'Organiz. t. ii. 58.