496 GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. described by Jacobson* Tlie nervus tympa- nicus enters a canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and there anastomoses with the Vidian and the carotid plexus of the sym- pathetic. The orifice of this canal is placed between the jugular fossa and carotid canal, and external to the termination of the aqueduct of the cochlea. The ramus tympamcus is figured and described by Arnoldf as dividing into six filaments : 1. a filament to the fenestra rotunda; 2. one to the fenestra ovalis; 3. one which anastomoses with the sympathetic; 4. one distributed upon the Eustachian tube; 5. one, which he terms nervus petrosus profundus minor, anastomosing with {lie spheno-palatine ganglion; 6. one, the nervus petrosus superfi- cialis minor, which anastomoses with a branch from the otic ganglion or ganglion Arnoldi. The nerve of Jacobson thus forms an anasto- mosis among the glosso-pharyngeal, the second"' and third branches of the fifth pair, and the superior ganglion of the sympathetic.;!; A small branch arises from the ganglion petrosum, as delineated by Arnold,§ which unites itself to the auricular branch of the par vagum.|| Two other filaments are generally found con- nected with that part of the trunk of the nerve occupied by the ganglion petrosum. These are a communicating twig between the ganglion petrosum and ganglion of the par vagum, and an anastomosing filament of the sympathetic. As these filaments are very minute, and lie in a dense fibrous sheath, they can only be displayed by an exceedingly careful dissection. The communicating filament between these two ganglia of the glosso-pharyngeal and par vagum is short, and passes directly from the one gan- glion to the other. The communicating filament from the sympathetic comes from the superior cervical ganglion, mounts up between the trunks of the par vagum and glosso-pharyngeal, and divides into two portions,—one of these connecting itself to the ganglion petrosum, the other to the ganglion of the par vagum. The course and mode of termination of this com- municating filament of the sympathetic is re- presented differently by Wutzerlf from the de- scription here given. I have adopted that given by Arnold,** since it exactly agrees with my own dissections. Another branch has been described as arising from the ganglion petrosum immediately below the ramus tympanicus, and passing backwards behind the styloid process, to anastomose with the trunk of the facial after * Acta Reg. Soc. Havniensis Medic, torn. v. Copen. 1818. f Icones Nervorum Capitis, tab. vii. 1834. $ Cruveilhier (Anatomie Descriptive, torn. iv. p. 952, 1835) states that, in one subject he found this ramus tympanicus formed by two branches, one from the par vagum, the other from the glosso- pharyngeal. In another subject it was formed by a branch from the auricular of the pneumo-gastric united with one from the glosso-pharyngeal. § Op. cit. plates iii and v. II It appears that the ramus auricularis of the par vagum was described even to both its branches by Comparetti, p. 129, De Aure Interna, &c. 1 Op. cit. fig. vii. ** Op. cit. tab. iv. its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen * We here see that the anatomy of that portion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve which lies within the foramen lacerum is very complicated, but it must be at the same time obvious that it em- braces considerations of great interest in a phy- siological point of view. What the true nature of these two ganglia is, we cannot at present venture positively to de- cide. I may mention, however, that Midler f states that he is satisfied, that the superior gan- glion or ganglion jugulare resembles the Casse- rian ganglion upon the trigeminus or fifth pair, and those upon the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, for while one portion of the nerve swells into a ganglion, the other passes by without assisting in its formation. On the other hand, he believes that the inferior gan- glion differs decidedly from those upon the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and resem- bles the swelling which is occasionally found upon a nerve where it is joined by branches from the sympathetic. The ramus tympanicus, according to his view, belongs to the sympa- thetic system of nerves.}: On escaping from the foramen lacerum the glosso - pharyngeal occasionally forms direct anastomoses with the par vagum, spinal acces- sory, and superior ganglion of the sympathetic; at other times it only anastomoses with these through its branches. Digastric and stylo-hyoid branch. — The origin of this branch is far from being regular. It frequently arises from the external side of the nerve soon after its exit from the foramen lace- rum. It ramifies, as its name implies, in the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. The fila- ments of this nerve anastomose in the substance of the digastric muscle with the digastric branch of the portio dura.§ Carotid branches are two or more in num- ber, and pass from the convexity of the nerve or from some of its pharyngeal branches, and proceed upon the surface of the internal carotid, where they form a very evident anastomosis with the sympathetic, with the pharyngeal, and other branches of the par vagum, and assist in form- ing the plexuses around the carotid arteries. They have been traced downwards for a consi- derable extent, and found to anastomose with the superior and even with the middle cardiac nerves. Pharyngeal branches.—The nerve next fur- nishes the pharyngeal branches, which are from two to four in number. The largest of these proceed downwards, and their ramifications can be traced over the whole of the pharynx, but more particularly over its upper and middle * Cruveilhier, op. cit. p. 953. He looks upon this twig as the rudiment of a considerable branch of the facial, which he found in one case partly to replace the glosso-pharyngeal. See also torn. iii. p. 424. t Archiv. fur Anat. &c. No. ii. 1837, p. 276. % Handbuch der Physiol. Erster Band. § Mr. Swan, in plate xvii. fig. 2 and 3, of his " Demonstrations of the Nerves of the Human Body," figures this communication as formed by a filament of the digastric branch of the facial going to join the trunk of the glosso-pharyngeal.