810 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. after the accident (Jig. 319) we find, of course, * Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. ii. p. 351. ter minor is split, the fissure passing at right angles with the body of the femur. The de- scending ramus of the pubis was broken ob- liquely, the fracture passing downwards and inwards from the thyroid foramen. There was a large effusion of blood into the crushed can- celli of the bone. Tlie patient, from whom the preparation was taken, was thrown down by a cart loaded with hay. The horse and cart passed over her. The injured limb was short- ened three quarters of an inch, the foot was everted, and the slightest motion was painful. She died on the fourth day after the occurrence of the accident, having never recovered from the shock." Another specimen (Jig. 320) shews Fig. 320. this species of fracture in the case of a woman who survived the accident. " Alicia Sherlock, aet. 64. Section of the head and neck of the femur, shewing fracture of the cervix external to the capsule. The neck of the bone has sunk nearly to a right angle with the shaft. The compact structure which lines the concavity of the cervix has been broken, while the very thin stratum which invests the upper surface has yielded to the force without breaking, but the cervix has sunk into the cancellated texture of the shaft at a right angle, and is now sup- ported upon the lesser trochanter. There is no motion whatever between the broken surfaces, nor the slightest trace of fracture at the central part of the neck of the bone. The injury was produced by a fall on the trochanter. There was but little alteration in the position of the foot, but the tendency was to eversion. The shortening amounted to half an inch, and cre- pitus was not distinguishable. The patient lived three months and a half after the receipt of the injury." In both these cases we have a confirmation of our opinion, that the reduction of the compact arch of bone which occupies the under surface of the neck of the femur to a thin lamina, predisposes to fracture of this por- tion of the neck of the thigh-bone. In the case in which the examination was made four days that there was no osseous deposition around the inter-trochanteric lines, but that, on the contrary, in the case, A. Sherlock, (Jig. 320), which survived the accident for more than three months, exuberant growths of bone surrounded the seat of fracture, and contributed to form a kind of socket, which received the superior fragment, by means of which the patient was enabled to throw her weight on the injured limb, and even to walk. The lesser trochanter, in most of the cases which we have examined, was greatly increased by bony depositions, and became a prop to support the head, and it is probable that, in these cases, the acetabulum is propped up by the growths of bone from the shaft of the femur. " This is a mode of union," says Mr. Colles, (alluding to the impaction,) " very little inferior to callus in point of firm- ness, but very different in its nature," and which, he conceives, is peculiar to fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone. In these cases Mr. Colles has found a thin cartilaginous plate every where interposed between the neck and shaft. The new osseous production could have very little assisted in keeping the fractured pieces in apposition, for it was principally thrown out about the trochanters, a small por- tion only being formed below the neck, yet the motion allowed between the fragments was so very inconsiderable, that it required a close in- spection to discern it, so that, in this instance, the new osseous matter contributed very little to the consolidation of the broken bone, the firmness of which (inferior only to bony anchy- losis) must therefore be ascribed entirely to the interposed thin plate of cartilage. In one of Mr. Colles's cases, No. XI. a vertical section shewed that the neck had been fractured near to the trochanters, and lay across the top of the shaft; its broken extremity being in contact with the outer plate of the shaft. The external solid walls of the neck were very thin* In a specimen of fracture of the cervix femoris, which we possess in our museum, the neck of the bone has been broken at its basis, near the inter-trochanteric lines, and was impacted nearly transversely into the cancellated structure of the shaft of the femur, and the force of the fall was so considerable that the upper fragment has absolutely penetrated the outer wall of the tro- chanter, and would have been in naked con- tact with the tendon of the gluteus maximus, had it not been for the existence of the bursa there situated. From the specimens that we have examined, and have in our possession, we entertain no doubt but that solid bony union may take place between the impacted cervix femoris and the superior extremity of the shaft of the femur. In all cases of the impacted fracture, when the patient had survived the accident for a month or more, whether the union was complete or incomplete, exuberant growth of bone had sprung from the inter-trochanteric lines. Does bony consolidation of the intra-capsular fracture of the cervix femoris ever occur?— This question has for the last twenty years been