GENERATION. 458 tervening between the ligature and the testicle. It may be remarked, however, there are no vesiculae seminales or reservoirs of semen in the dog, and the result of such an experiment can hardly with justice be applied to the human species. On the other hand, it may be re- marked that in man, while the testicle con- tinually secretes a small quantity of semen, and probably a larger quantity during venereal excitement, it is obvious that the vesiculas seminales serve as reservoirs in which the seminal fluid accumulates; for when in the dead body fluids are thrown into the vas de- ferens, they pass into the seminal vesicle of the same side and distend it before issuing by the orifice leading into the urethra. .The se- minal fluid after being secreted probably follows in the living body the same course; and from this circumstance as well as the suddenness of emission, it is reasonable to infer that the greater part of the ejaculated semen, though formed in the testicles, comes in man immediately from the seminal vesicles. The seminal vesicles we may suppose then always to contain a certain quantity of seminal fluid in the state of health. The accumu- lation of semen in these vesicles relieves the pressure which otherwise would distend too much the secretory and excretory ducts of the testicle, and the seminal vesicles are them- selves relieved either by the sudden evacuation of their contents from time to time, or by the gradual absorption of the seminal fluid by the absorbents or bloodvessels.'* There is also reason to believe that the mucous lining of the seminal vesicles secretes a mucous fluid which is mixed with the prolific product of the testicles. Tn some animals, indeed, the vesiculae seminales open separately from the vasa deferentia and dis- charge by their excretory duct a fluid peculiar to themselves. The impotence caused by castration or by the ligature of the spermatic vessels suffici- ently proves, that the testicles are the only source of that part of the emitted fluid upon which the fecundating power depends. The properties of the fluid supposed to be derived from the prostatic body and Cowper's glands have not been satisfactorily examined. The quantity of the seminal fluid emitted du- ring sexual union varies in man from one to two or three drachms. The seminal vesicles are not, however, emptied at one emission, and, accord- ing to Haller, when by repetition this comes to be the case, two or three days are required in man to fit them again for reproduction by a new supply of fluid. Chemical properties of the spermatic fluid.— On cooling immediately after emission, the seminal fluid jellies slightly, but in twenty or twenty-five minutes it becomes more fluid * This absorption of semen into the general cir- culation is conceived, not perhaps on very sufficient grounds, to cause some of the peculiarities of the male animal at the time of breeding; to render the flesh rank and unfit for eating ; more readily putrescent, &c. than at first,—a change which does not appear to depend upon the absorption of moisture from the atmosphere, as its weight is diminished rather than increased. The chemical properties of the seminal fluid have been examined in man and several ani- mals. It is generally considerably heavier than water, has a peculiar odour, which in- creases on keeping, is alcaline from the first, and gives off ammonia when heated. Left at rest for some time, it deposits crystals of phos- phate of lime-. According to the analysis of Vauquelin human seminal I uid consists of the following ingredients:— Water 90 Animal mucus 6 Free soda 1 Phosphate of lime 3 Peculiar animal principle — 100 In the spermatic fluid of the horse, Las- saigne has detected, besides the above-men- tioned ingredients, the following substances :— Muriates of potassa and soda, Phosphates of lime and magnesia, Peculiar animal matter called spermatine. The milt of fishes, particularly that of the carp, analysed by Fourcroy and Vauquelin, contains— An oily and saponaceous matter, Gelatine, Albumen, Muriate of ammonia, Phosphate of lime, of magnesia, of potassa, of soda. Phosphorus in such quantity as to emit light in the dark. The semen is fluid in almost all animals. In some of the lower animals it is not so, but granular and crumbling. In the greater num- ber of animals the fluid is of a white milky appearance and thinner consistence than in man, presenting in fishes the appearance of an emulsion of yolk of egg in milk. In respect to its mode of discharge there are also many varieties dependent on the structure of the generative organs. In the lowest animals the testicle alone exists of the genital organs, and the secretory apparatus of this organ possesses a remarkably simple structure, consisting in many of a number of cceca or elongated follicles which pour the product of their secretion into a com- mon duct. In the cuttle-fish a very curious modification exists in the mode of discharge of the seminal fluid; it being inclosed in small parcels in long-shaped transparent firm cases, somewhat like small phials. These cases are about three quarters of an inch in length, and are formed in the course of the vasa deferentia by an apparatus specially pro- vided for the purpose: they are stopped at one extremity, and at the other are closed by