322 FCETUS. A case occurred not long since in this city, under the observation of Dr. Murphy, in which at the time of the birth of the child, which presented the breech, a membranous bag protruded before it, and was supposed at the moment to be the membranes of the ovum, but it was found to be the covering of a spina bifida tumour, over which the integuments were deficient: it was of considerable size, nearly equalling that of the child's head, and sprung from the very lowest point of the sacrum, as represented in the subjoined sketch:— Fig. 152. In another instance, for the observation of which the writer is also indebted to Dr. Mur- phy, the tumour occupied the whole length of the sacrum, and was conjoined with diaphrag- matic hernia. In some rare instances there have been more than one tumour: in size these tumours vary from the volume of a small nut to that of a child's head at birth ; and in their form there is also considerable variety, some being very exactly globular, while others are of the long oval, some pyriform with the tapering- pedicle next the spine, and others broader in that situation than externally, and so rather representing the form of a cone. As a general description of the affection, its pathological anatomy is this: there is a deficiency in the posterior arch of one or more vertebra, arising eitherfrom imperfect development of these bones, or their division ; through the opening thus caused, protrudes a sac consisting of the in- vesting membrane of the spinal marrow, which sac is in general covered externally by the common integuments, which are sometimes in a healthy state, but more frequently diseased, being sometimes extremely attenuated, either wholly or partially and sometimes in a state of ulceration, or approaching to a state of gangrene; occasionally the integuments are altogether ab- sent, and the membranes form the covering of the tumour ; the contents are a fluid of various characters in different cases; appearing some- times bloody, puriform, and otherwise con- taminated, but when presenting its more natural serous condition, it is found, like that of hy- drocephalus, to contain a smaller proportion of albumen than the fluid of other dropsies. Sometimes the fluid contained in the tumour can be made, merely by pressure on the latter, to retreat and pass along the spinal canal iuto the ventricles of the brain, producing the sym- ptoms of cerebral compression; and in such cases also, as in encephalocele, efforts, as of crying, coughing, &c. produce an immediate increase in the size of the tumour: and in the case mentioned by Morgagni, the enlargement of the head from hydrocephalus was diminished, when the spina bifida tumour was opened and its contents allowed to flow out.* Spina bifida has been found engaging the whole length of the spinal column, which is, however, very rare, and sometimes it has passed, not through a divided or imperfect vertebra, but through a space accidentally ex- isting between the last lumbar vertebra and the first piece of the sacrum.-j- This affection of the foetus, though some- times found unaccompanied by any other, is in many instances complicated with morbid lesions of an important kind, such as hydrocephalus, malformation of the lower extremities, which are apt to be curved inwards, or otherwise distorted, deficiency in the coverings of the abdomen, and umbilical hernia, hare-lip, &c. : in one instance in the writer's museum, in which there was adhesion between the foetus and the amnion, spina bifida is accompanied by malformation of the lower limbs, and an enor- mous umbilical hernia, in which are contained almost all the abdominal viscera.}; (See Jig. 153.) fig. 153. b, a membranous pouch, which contained the abdominal viscera during uterine existence. •. d, the placenta and its membranes. e, the liver, f, intestines. g, external opening of vagina. h, an aperture in the situation of the meatus urinarius. I, spina bifida tumour. * Epist. xii. art. 9. t Andral, Mohrenheim, Portal. J [Some time ago the Editor was favoured by his friend Mr. Hale Thomson, Surgeon to the West- minster Hospital, with an opportunity of examining a remarkable case of double spina bifida. There