719 HERMAPHRODITISM. the os pubis resembled the mons veneris; and in addition he was weak in his intellect, and deficient in bodily strength. The external genital organs shewed him to be a male, but the penis was unusually small, as well as short, and not liable to erections; the testicles were not larger in size than they commonly are in the foetal state; and he had never felt any pas- sion for the opposite sex. The following cases by the same author strongly illustrate this subject.* In a family of three children residing near Modbury in De- vonshire, the second, a daughter, was a well- formed female, the eldest and youngest were both malformed males. The eldest was thir- teen years of age. His mons veneris was loaded with fat; no penis could be said to be present, but there was a prseputium a sixth of an inch long, and under it the meatus urina- rius, but no vagina. There was an imperfect scrotum with a smooth surface, there being no raphe" in the middle, but, in its place, an in- dented line; it contained two testicles, of the size that they are met with in the foetus. His breasts were as large as those of a fat woman. He was four feet high, and of an uncommon bulk, his body round the waist being equal to that of a fat man, and his thighs and legs in proportion. He was very dull and heavy, and almost an idiot, but could walk and talk ; he began to walk when a year and a half old. The younger brother was six years old, and uncommonly fat and large for his age. He was more an idiot than the other, not having sense enough to learn to walk although his limbs were not defective. A case in a similar manner confirmatory of the preceding remarks is mentioned by Itard de Riez.f A young man, aged twenty-three, had no testes in the scrotum, a very small penis, not capable of erection, and a divided scrotum. He was in stature below the middle size. His skin was soft, smooth, and entirely free from hair, the place of the beard being supplied by a slight down. The voice was hoarse; the muscles were not well marked ; the form of the chest resembled that of the female, and the pelvis was extremely broad and large. The intellectual faculties were very dull, and the sexual appetite was entirely wanting. Renauldin, also, in the same work,]: has re- corded another case in point. In a soldier of twenty-four years of age, whose genital organs were extremely undeveloped, his penis being only of the size of a small tubercle, and his testicles not larger than small nuts, the pelvis was broad; the chest narrow; the face and body in general were not covered with hair, with the exception of a small quantity upon the pubis; the voice was feminine, and the mammary glands were as perfectly developed as in the adult female. The body of this in- dividual was rather lean than otherwise. The * lb. p. 320-21. t Memoires de la Soiicte Med. d'Emnlation, torn. iii. p. 293-5. t Tom. i. p. 241. mammae had begun to enlarge when his body attained to its full stature at sixteen years of age. He had all the habits and sexual desires of the male sex. In quadrupeds as in man, when the tes- ticles or ovaries are imperfectly formed, the secondary sexual peculiarities are frequently so defectively evolved as to offer a kind of her- maphroditic or neutral type in the general con- figuration and characters of the animal. Thus, the free-martin does not present an exact analogy in form either with the bull or cow, but exhibits a set of characters intermediate between both, and more nearly resembling those of the ox and of the spayed heifer. In size it resembles the castrated male and spayed female, being considerably larger than either the bull or the cow, and having horns very similar to those of the ox. Its bellow is simi- lar to that of the ox, being more analogous to that of the cow than of the bull. Its flesh, like that of the ox and spayed heifer, is gene- rally much finer in its fibre than the flesh of either the bull or cow, and is supposed to exceed even that of the ox and heifer in deli- cacy of flavour.* The consideration of the various facts that we have now stated inclines us to believe that the natural history characters of any species of animal are certainly not to be sought for solely either in the system of the male or in that of the female; but, as Mr. Hunter pointed out, they are to be found in those properties that are common to bolh sexes, and which we have occasionally seen combined together by nature upon the bodies of an unnatural her- maphrodite; or evolved from the interference of art, upon a castrated male or spayed female. In assuming at the age of puberty the distinc- tive secondary peculiarities of his sex, the male, as far as regards these secondary pecu- liarities, evidently passes into a higher degree of development than the female, and leaves her more in possession of those characters that are common to the young of both sexes, and which he himself never loses, when his tes- ticles are early removed. These and other facts connected with the evolution of both the primary and secondary peculiarities of the sexes further appear to us to shew that, phy- siologically at least, we ought to consider the male type of organization to be the more per- fect as respects the individual, and the female the more perfect as respects the species. Hence we find that, when females are mal- formed in the sexual parts so as to resemble the male, the malformation is almost always one of excessive development, as enlargement of the clitoris, union of the labia, &c.; and, on the other hand, when the male organs are malformed in such a manner as to simulate the female, the abnormal appearance is generally capable of being traced to a defect of deve- lopment, such as the want of closure of the perinseal fissure, and of the inferior part of the urethra, diminutive size of the penis, retention * Hunter's Obs. on the An. Econ. p. 60.