83 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. power. No irritation has ever produced a dis- charge after death. The intensity of the elec- trical power seems to bear no relation to the size of the fish, at least after it has attained mature age; small fish are almost always ac- tively electrical. The torpedo sometimes bears great irritation, even the firm grasp of a hand, without dis- charging. In these circumstances it writhes and twists itself about for some time, using strong efforts to escape, before it emits its electricity. In a few instances it has been found impossible by any means to excite even vigorous torpedos to discharge. Both Lace- pede and Reaumur handled and irritated the most lively torpedos, even while yet in their native element, without experiencing any shock. But generally the shocks are stronger when the skin of the fish is in any way irritated. All electrical fishes soon become exhausted and die, even in sea-water, when they are excited to give a continued succession of discharges. But fishes much exhausted by frequent dis- charges recover their electrical energy after a few hours' rest. The torpedo seems to possess electrical power even in the earliest periods of its existence. Spallanzani relates that he found within a female torpedo two living foetuses, which gave distinct shocks on being removed from their coverings. Dr. Davy, also, once received a sharp although not a strong shock, in extracting foetal fish from the uterine cavities of a dying torpedo. When the Gymnotus is grasped by the hand, the intensity of the discharge is moderate at first, but is increased if the pressure be conti- nued. The torpedo discharges whenever it is taken out of the water; and Walsh found that a vigorous fish repeats the discharge as often as it is lifted out, and again on being re-im- mersed ; also that it gives more violent shocks in air than in water. Spallanzani found the shock to be more severe when the fish was laid on a plate of glass. The following observation, reported by Walsh, seems to prove that the Gymnotus can distinguish at some distance between substances capable of receiving and conducting its discharge, and those which can- not conduct; and that (excepting when it is much irritated) it discharges only when con- ducting bodies are presented to it. Two wires were put into the water of the vessel in which a Gymnotus was swimming; these wires were of some length, and stretched; they termi- nated in two glasses filled with water placed at a considerable distance from each other. Whilst the apparatus remained in this state, and the circulation was of course interrupted, the animal did not prepare to exercise his power, but whenever any conducting substance filled the interval, and rendered the circle complete, it instantly approached the wires, arranged itself, and gave the shock. The same fish, according to the observations of Messrs. Humboldt and Bonpland, appears to have the power of transmitting its discharge in any direction it pleases, or towards the point where it is most sharply irritated; and further, it seems to be able to discharge, some- times from a single point, at other times from the whole of its surface. Dr. Davy has s itis- fied himself that the Torpedo also has the power of discharging its electricity in any direction it chooses. The shock produced by the discharge of the Gymnotus is most severely felt when one hand seizes the head and the other the tail. When two persons take hold of a Gymnotus, the one by the head or by the middle of the body, and the other by the tail, both standing on the ground, shocks are felt, sometimes by one alone, sometimes by both. It has been ob- served that when metals are placed in the vessel or pond containing a Gymnotus, the fish appears much agitated, and discharges very frequently. II. Motions of the. fish in the act of dis- charging.—These have been particularly ob- served only in the Torpedo and Gymnotus. At the time of discharging, according to some ob- servers, the Torpedo generally becomes some- what tumid anterior to the lateral fins, retracts its eyes within their orbits, and moves its lateral fins in a convulsive manner. When the fish begins to lose its plumpness, after having given frequent shocks, " a little tran- sient agitation" is perceptible along the carti- lages which surround the electrical organs at the time of the discharge. Dr. Davy, how- ever, states that he has never seen the Torpedo of the Mediterranean retract its eyes at the time of discharging; and that he has not been able to associate any apparent movement of the fish with the electrical discharge. The Gymnotus sometimes emits pie strongest discharges without moving any part of its sur- face in the slightest perceptible degree. But, at other times, it seems to arrange itself so as to bring the side of its body into a parallel with the object of its attack before discharging. When a small fish is brought near a Gymno- tus, it swims directly up to it, as if about to seize it; on approaching close, however, it halts, seems to view the fish for a few seconds, and then, without making the smallest move- ment discoverable by the eye, emits its dis- charge ; should the small fish not be killed by the first, the Gymnotus gives a second, and a third shock, until its object is accomplished. It continues to kill a large number in close succession, if they be supplied to it, but it eats very few. III. Physiological effects of the discharge.— The effects of the discharge on man vary ac- cording to its intensity and the extent of the surface of the fish which is touched. A vigo- rous torpedo causes a momentary shock, which is felt through the arm even as far as the shoul- der, and. leaves a degree of painful numbness in the finger and hand, continuing for a few seconds, and then going off entirely. Some observers have compared the sensation pro- duced to that felt in the arm when the elbow is struck so as to compress strongly the ulnar nerve; and others (even such as have been much accustomed to receive electric shocks) have declared the sensation to be extremely painful; Gay Lussac and Humboldt say that G 2