977 INSECTA. Fig. 433. A, dorsal vessel or heart of Lucamis cermis. a, the valves or chambers ; b, b, the lateral mus- cles ; c, the supposed auricular space around the vessel. B, the division into vessels of tlw anterior or aortal portion, of the dorsal vessel in the larva of Vanessa urticce. C, interior of the dorsal vessel (Straus). a, interior of the valve, showing the transverse fibres; b, the auriculo-ventricular opening and valve into the chambers of the vessel; c, semi- lunar valve ; d, inter-ventricular valve. internal one (C, a) formed of a transversely folded and striated membrane which is thickest towards the middle of each chamber, and an external one formed of strong, smooth, mus- cular, longitudinal fibres. Burmeister* has suggested that these may be only two layers of one muscular structure, and that the presence of a structureless lining or inner membrane must then be presumed, although it be too delicate to be actually detected by observation. The third or external coat is a transparent struc- tureless membrane which covers the outer ' * Op. cit. p. 156. VOL. II. surface of the heart, and is extended directly over it without following the reflexions inwards of the muscular coat, where it forms the valves or separations between the different chambers. The division of the organ into separate cham- bers is effected by means of an intussusception or reflexion inwards and forwards of the whole muscular structures. A portion of each side of the heart is first extended inwards so as very nearly to meet a corresponding portion from the opposite side, and then reflected back- wards forms, according to Straus,* the inter- ventricular valve (d), which separates each chamber from that which follows it. Posteriorly to this valve, at the anterior part of each cham- ber, is a transverse opening or slit (i), the auficulo-ventricular orifice, through which the blood passes into each chamber, and imme- diately behind it is a second but much smaller semilunar valve (c), which, like the first, is directed forwards into the chamber. It is between these two valves on each side that the blood passes into the heart and is prevented from returning by the closing of the semilunar valve. When the blood is passing into the chamber the inter-ventricular valve is thrown back against the side of the cavity, but is closed, when, by the contraction of the trans- verse fibres, the diameter of each chamber is narrowed and the blood is forced along into the next.cbamber. The number of these openings and chambers in different species of insects does not yet appear to have been satisfactorily ascertained. Straus has figured nine chambers in Melolontha, and consequently eight pairs of openings, but we have not been able to observe more than seven pairs of openings in Lucanus cervus, in which the anterior pair is almost hidden at the commencement of the aorta. Burmeisterf states that he could not find more than four pairs of openings in the larva of Culosomu, while he remarks that according to Midler's description of the heart in Pliasma there appears to be but one pair in that species. In Bombits terrestris we have as yet detected but five pairs, but we nevertheless suspect that these discrepancies, or apparent differences in the number of these openings, arise less from so great a diversity in the actual number than from some of them being overlooked during dissection, since we have invariably found eight pairs in Sphinx ligustri, both in the larva and perfect-state, as well as in other Lepidoptera; while in the Bombus examined by us the dissection was not so carefully made as to enable us to state positively that there are not more than we have mentioned. The external form of the chambers in the very thick and muscular heart of Lucanus is shown in the drawing we have given of this structure. When the heart is examined by transmitted light, there is seen around it a bright space (A, c) in which we have observed the blood flov\irig very freely in living specimens of Agrion, and which we regard with Straus as an auricular cavity, apparently bounded by a loose membrane, and * C'onsiderat. &c. p, 356. f Op. cit. p. 154. 3 s