GENERATION. 447 parts* of the penis, to which the clitoris bears a great similarity; and it may be remarked that there is also a functional analogy, as these parts in the female sometimes undergo the change of erection under local irritation or venereal excitement. The glans penis is endowed with a high degree of sensibility, and is regarded generally as the chief seat of venereal pleasure ; but this also belongs to the urethra at the time of emission. The papillous structure of the mucous membrane covering the glans, and the large quantity of nerves distributed on its surface, relate to this high sensory endow- ment. The lower part of the vagina and the clitoris in particular are possessed of a similar high degree of sensibility, and in some women, but not in all, are the seat of venereal feelings from excitement; but in many women such feelings are altogether absent; and it is most erroneous to suppose, as some have done, that these feelings are in either sex necessary to insure the fecundating power of the one, or the liability to conception of the other. With regard to the uses of the hymen we have no conjecture to offer. The vagina, besides serving to receive the penis in copulation and to conduct the seminal fluid to the uterus, is the passage by which the child issues in parturition. IV. CHANGES CONSEQUENT ON FRUITFUL SEXUAL UNION. 1. As regards the female chiefly. Concep- tion.—The consequence of fruitful sexual union in man and quadrupeds is the dislodgement of one of the ova contained in the ovarium, and the fecundation of this ovum in some part of its passage from the ovarium, where it is formed, to the uterus, in which the foetus is developed from it. In now proceeding to treat of the mode in which these further steps of the generative pro- cess are brought about, the following subjects present themselves for our consideration. 1st. What changes are operated in the internal female organs after fruitful sexual union, and by what means are the ova dislodged from the ovary? 2d. What changes do the ovaries or their vesicles undergo after the discharge of any of the ova ? 3d. What happens to the ovum from the time of its discharge from the ovary until the commencement of the development of the foetus? 4th. In what part of the female ge- nerative system is the change of fecundation effected by the agency of the seminal fluid upon the germinal part of the egg? and lastly, In what does the change of fecundation consist, or upon what properties of the seminal fluid may it be supposed to depend ? These topics comprehend the history of the functions of the male and female internal gene- * The glans penis and glans clitoridis, the nym- pha; and corpus spongiosum urethra;, and the cor- pora cavernosa penis and clitoridis are considered anatomically as the respective corresponding parts in the male and female body. rative organs, in so far as they relate to the pro- cesses of conception and fecundation ; under which two heads, as has been already men- tioned, it is our intention to bring the remainder of the facts respecting generation which come within the limits of the present article. We shall begin with those facts relating chiefly to the female, or conception. The immediate consequence of sexual union upon the female internal generative organs is their great excitement, and a turgescence pro- duced by an accumulation of blood in their vessels. When sexual union proves productive, this turgescence lasts for some time after it has taken place, so that in animals opened at this time, the ovaries, Fallopian tubes, and uterus are found to be of a much deeper red colour, and more vascular than in their natural state. In the female Rabbit, for example, opened soon after coition, the internal organs are nearly black from sanguineous congestion. There also occurs in some of these parts a change of position in regard to one another, which is connected with the discharge of ova from the ovarian vesicles. The fimbriated ex- tremities of the Fallopian tubes are turned to- wards the ovaries on each side, and embrace these organs closely, so that the infundibular opening is applied against the ovary, and must of necessity receive the contents of the Graafian vesicle when it bursts. In some animals the ovary is inclosed in a sac along with the infun- dibulum by a reduplication of the peritoneum, so that the ovary is kept always to a certain extent within the infundibulum; but in other animals in which the connection between these parts is not of this permanent kind, there is an equally firm union of them after copulation. In regard to the means by which this approxi- mation and union of the fimbriae and ovaries are brought about, it may be stated, that in some animals the action seems to be somewhat of a muscular kind ; for there are strong fibres, having all the appearance of muscular, fibres, which pass from the ovary towards the fimbri- ated portion of the Fallopian tube; and in these animals, as well as in others even, in which the muscular fibres are less obvious, irri- table contraction may be supposed to be a means of bringing the parts nearer to one another. The observations of Hartsoeker and Haller, however, would appear to shew that the vascular turgescence which follows co- pulation, amounting to a state approaching to erection, may also contribute to give rise to the change of position now under consi- deration, for they found by repeated trials that the forcible injection of fluids into the bloodvessels of the generative organs in the human dead body caused the approxi- mation of the fimbriaB and ovaries. But, although it may be admitted that vascular tur- gescence may cause this approximation of the parts, we would venture to suggest that some power of the nature of muscular contraction is necessary to give that degree of firmness to the union which it is found to possess some time after copulation. We must remark, however, that when a