INSECTA. 889 the lesser jaws, maxilla, in being articulated both with the upper and under surface of the head. The maxilla, or lesser jaws (fig.370, B,C), are of very compound structure. They are situated between the mandibles and labium, and are employed by the insect to hold its food, and to convey it to the posterior part of the mouth. They are each formed of four primary and three or more accessory parts, when mostcompletely deve- loped. The primary parts are the cardo or hinge, the stipes or footstalk, the palpi fer, and the lacinia or blade. The accessory parts are the galea or lobus superior, the lobus inferior, and unguis. The cardo (jig. 370, B, C, 1) is the joint upon which nearly all the motions of the maxilla depend. In Hydrous it is a minute trapezoid or irregularly triangular corneous plate, with an elongated curved process by which it is arti- culated with the os transversum on the under surface of the cranium, and over which the cardo is articulated like a hinge. In some genera, as in Staphylinus, it is more elongated, and this is particularly the case in Melolontha, whence it was called branche transvcrsale. In most instances it is as it were wedged in between the sub-mentum and mandible. It is articulated at its anterior margin with the second piece of the maxilla, the stipes (2), which forms the outer surface of the organ, being considered its primary part. It is an elongated corneous plate, broadest at its articu- lation with the cardo. It is approximated along its anterior margin to the squama palpifer (3), a broad plate which covers the superior external surface of the maxilla. Immediately beneath the anterior margin or apex of the squama is inserted the palpifer (4), a short cylindrical appendage, which is usually con- sidered part of the squama, the whole being together called the palpifer. It supports the proper maxillary or true palpus, which is re- markable for its length in the Hydrous. The lacinia (5), sometimes improperly called max- illa, forms the internal portion of the organ, and, as we shall hereafter see, appears in its earliest condition in the embryo to constitute a separate organ or appendage, belonging to the mentum-—as the stipes appear to belong to the sub-mentum—but which in the course of deve- lopment becomes approximated to the stipes to form part of the maxilla of the perfect insect. Like the stipes, it is a broad corneous plate, which forms the greater portion of the under surface of the maxilla, and is articulated with the cardo only by a small portion of its base. On its upper surface, which forms a great part of the sides of the mouth, it is soft, membra- nous, and covered with fine hairs. It gives origin at its anterior truncated extremity to the accessory parts of the maxilla,, the lobus supe- rior and inferior. The lobus superior, or galea, is a thick, double-jointed organ (6), densely covered at its anterior margin with stiff reddish hairs. It is articulated with the external an- gle of the lacinia, and covers the lobus inferior, which is articulated with the internal angle, and on this account, more particularly in Orthoptera, is called the galea or helmet. It is used by this and other insects as a palpus, or feeler, to touch and convey food to the mouth. The lobus inferior is a short quadrate joint (7), articulated with the internal angle of the lacinia, of which it forms the proper continuation. At its superior extremity is a minute articulated claw (8), densely covered on its upper surface with long stiff hairs, as is also the whole of the internal margin of the laci- nia itself,which forms the lateral boundary of the mouth, and is continuous with the soft lining of the pharynx. The maxillary palpi (h) are two very long flexible organs, composed each of four joints. The palpifer, upon which they are situated, is a short joint or tubercle, in- serted at the anterior external angle of the maxilla, between the angle of the lacinia and the plate which covers the superior surface of the maxilla (3), and of which it forms a part, but from which in this insect it appears quite distinct. The first joint of the palpus is ex- ceedingly short, so as to allow of extensive motion to the organ in every direction, while the second is much longer than in most other insects, and, when the palpus is retracted, forms with the third joint a distinct elbow or bend. The third and fourth joints are also of great length, so that the insect is enabled to protrude the organ to a great distance. The labial palpi (fig. 369, k) are much shorter than the maxillary. The first two joints are very minute, the second being partly hidden within the first, but the third and fourth are long and projecting, but not so long as those of the maxillary palpi. From all we have been able to observe, the office of the maxilla appears to be of a two- fold kind, and of greater importance to the insect than that of the mandibles themselves. The chief office is that of seizing and retaining the food within the mouth; and the secondary that of assisting the mandibles in comminuting it before it is passed on to the pharynx. Con- sequently all the parts of the maxilla are sub- ject to great variation of form; and in the dif- ferent tribes of Coleoptera, as in the other orders of insects, each particular form is adapted to the kind of food on which the in- sect subsists. In Melolontha, in which the four primary parts, the cardo, stipes, palpifer, and lacinia, were first accurately distinguished by Straus Durckheim,* the maxilla is a thick obtuse organ, with the cardo, which is less completely developed in Hydrous than in most other insects, forming a broad transverse piece, the stipes a short and triangular one, the pal- pifer also nearly triangular, and the lacinia, which, as Straus has remarked, is always con- tinuous with the pharynx, nearly also of a tri- angular form, and together constituting a thick compact organ, with its inner angle, the lobus inferior in other insects, forming a strong pro- jecting inarticulated tooth, and its external, articulated with a short thick galea, armed with three obtuse points, which probably serve the office of teeth for masticating the paren- chymatous food of this species. This form of * Considerations Generales sur l'Anatomie Com- pare* des Animaux Articules, par Hercule Straus- Durckheim, 1828, p. 68, pi. i. fig. 8.