350 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE FOOT. Fig, 166. far as we know not mentioned, has once fallen under our no- tice, namely, a dislo- cation of the tibia back- wards upon the upper and posterior part of the os calcis, so that the prominence of the heel was entirely lost, and the foot flexed to such a degree, as that the dorsum lay in contact with the anterior part of the leg. The alterations from the normal state of the ligaments, bones, mus- cles, and articular sur- faces, in these cases of deformity, are easily comprehended. The ligaments are of course elongated on the one side of the dislocated joint, and shortened on the other side; the bones are altered in shape, occasionally, where pressure is produced by a neighbouring bone, and sometimes a portion of the bone is twisted, and drawn towards the unna- tural situation of that one with which it articulates. The muscles are elongated or shortened, accord- ing as their points of attachment are, by the deformity, approximated or further separated. rphe articular surfaces undergo great alterations : they are altered in shape and situation by the friction of the parts in contact producing a new synovial surface upon its new situation, while a part, or the whole of the natural joint loses its polished surface, and becomes adherent to the integuments, while, in many instances, the altered position of a bone brings it into contact with another, with which naturally it had no such relation, and here asjain a preternatural synovial articulation will form, in accordance with the same law of the animal economy, by which long-continued pressure will produce a synovial bursa. As a general observation, we may state, that the whole limb is smaller, shorter, and feebler than the sound one, and that this defect increases by comparison with the sound one, as the child grows. M. Cru- veilhier has also found that individual bones are sometimes singly defective in their growth, while occasionally only the portion of a bone which is subjected to pressure is checked in its developement. The deformities described above are gene- rally congenital, but they are also occasionally produced after birth by accidental causes; though in this case there is no difference in the nature of the distortion or in the anatomical condition of the parts, yet they are less fre- quently cured, because the same carelessness or bad management which has too often occa- sioned the accidental form of the disease to creep on unheeded, makes the parents indiffe- rent as to the cure, while the deformity, which has not mismanagement for its cause, is imme- diately remarked on the birth of the child, excites alarm in the mind of the parent, and means are early adopted for its removal. This part of our subject leads us to notice a deformity, of not uncommon occurrence, but one which has met with little notice from writers, although the inconvenience and suffer- ing occasioned by it, great in degree, and, as far as we have known, permanent in duration, will entitle it to the consideration of the sur- geon. We allude to that state of the foot wherein the arch is lost, and the foot rests flat upon the ground. It is met with generally, but not always, in those children of the lower classes who are obliged, in their early youth, to engage in laborious occupations, and parti- cularly in lifting heavy weights, before the powers of the system are developed, though we have known it to occur where none of these causes could be traced. It happens generally, not in the very weak, nor in the firm and robust children, but in those who have the promise of developement on a large scale, and are rapidly growing. It comes on insidiously, and is rarely detected until too far gone to admit of a complete cure. The marks of this disease are an evident alteration in the shape of the foot. The dorsum has comparatively lost its con- vexity, the concavity of the sole is entirely gone; the scaphoid bone projecting below un- naturally, and the inner malleolus falling con- siderably inwards. The relative position of all the rest of the foot appears natural. The pa- tient complains of pain and tightness at the upper part of the instep passing through to the sole upon attempting to elevate the heel while standing. Indeed, in aggravated cases, he cannot lift himself at all upon the metatarsus, while every step upon an uneven surface is accompanied with pain. The anatomical cha- racters of this distressing disease consist, as far as a close examination of the living parts can detect, for we have had no opportunity of dis- secting them, in a relaxation of that ligament which passes between the os calcis and navicu- lar bone, and on which the fore part of the astragalus rests and moves. It will be quite evident, from an examination of these parts and their connexions, that this supposition is sufficient, to account for the symptoms that are apparent, and the idea is borne out by the fact of the point of the scaphoid being further sepa- rated than natural from the tubercle of the os calcis, which may be readily ascertained by the touch. We conceive the remote cause to be a certain degree of inflammatory action in the elastic ligament just mentioned, produced by over-exertion, before the part had acquired its full developement and strength. The morbid action being continued by the continuance of the irritation, the elasticity of the ligament is impaired, and it can no more support the weight laid upon it; it consequently yields, and is stretched. This view receives some support from the fact of the tenderness upon pressure constantly found in this precise spot, and from the relief afforded to the more dis- tressing symptoms by the application of leeches and counter-irritations.