38 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. with their large nerves, are the sole means coverings are discovered investing the electrical employed in bringing this mysterious agent organs. The outer one has longitudinal fibres, under the control of the animal's volition, which are rather loosely adherent, and, around They are therefore well worthy of an attentive the margins of the organs, seem to inosculate examination. with the skin. The inner fascia is of consider- 1. The electrical organs in the torpedo.— able density, forms the immediate tunic of the The torpedo is a flat fish, possessing the same electric columns, and sends processes down general appearance and structure as the rays, between them to form their partitions. Through- and classed along with them in zoological sys- out their whole extent, the essential part of the terns. The electrical organs occupy a large electrical organs is formed by a whitish soft Fig. 47. Upper surface of electrical organ of left side. A, common integuments. B, hranchial opening. C, eye. D, situation of the gills. E E, skin dis- sected off from the electrical organ, and turned outwards. F, part of the skin which covered the gills, G G, the upper surface of electrical organ. part of the broad expansions of the body, which in the other allied fishes are formed only by the lateral fins. They form two sepa- rate masses, one on either side of the head and gills, extending outwardly to the cartilaginous margins of the great fins; and, posteriorly, to the cartilage which separates the thoracic from the al dorainal cavity. Their form and the honey-comb embossments of their surfaces can be distinguished through the skin both of the dorsal and ventral aspects. The common inte- guments being removed, two strong fascial pulp, divided into numerous pentagonal prisms by the fascial processes just mentioned. These lie close together, parallel with one another, and perpendicularly between the dorsal and ventral surfaces of the fish, so that their extre- mities are separated from these surfaces only by their fascial and the common integuments. YVhen these are removed, the columns present something of the appearance of a honey-comb. The columns are longest next to the head and gills, and thence gra lually diminish outwardly, until, on the external margin, they are only