453 GENERATION. when it arrives in the uterus has also a similar external envelope, which has received in man and most animals the general appellation of chorion. Baer is of opinion that the chorion exists ready formed in the ovulum of the ovary ; but his observations appear to us as yet insufficient to prove this point, and we feel inclined rather to adopt the view of Valentin, who holds that it is probable that the chorion is added to the ovulum after it has left the Graafian vesicle, that is, during its passage from the ovary to the uterus, somewhat in the same manner as the albumen or shell is added to the egg of the common fowl in its passage through the oviduct. The analogy of all ovi- parous animals is at least strongly in favour of such a view of the mode of the production of the chorion or external envelope ; while on the other hand we ought not to lose sight of the fact that though the external envelope or cho- rion occupies the same position as the external covering of the eggs of oviparous animals, its structure and functions are very different, for almost in every quadruped the chorion serves important purposes in establishing that more intimate union peculiar to viviparous animals, which is formed between the ovum and uterus in the placenta or analogous structure. It is only in the dog and rabbit that the ova have hitherto been traced by actual observation in the whole course of their progress through the Fallopian tubes from the ovary to the uterus. These observations we owe chiefly to the care- ful researches of Cruikshank, Prevost and Dumas, Baer, and Coste. In regard to other animals we have only a few detached observa- tions in some of them, and in the human species the ova have never been observed in the Fallopian tubes, nor indeed for some time after they must have entered the uterus. We do not therefore know, with any degree of cer- tainty, at what distance of time after sexual union the ovum passes into the uterus of the human female. Great difficulties attend the elucidation of this point. In the first place, we are opposed by the impossibility, in the greater number of cases in which we may hap- pen to obtain a pregnant uterus for investiga- tion, of knowing accurately the age of the product or the time at which impregnation has occurred; and in the second place, we are here deprived of the assistance derived in In the Quadruped. 1. The ovary contains 2. Graafian vesicles which are filled with fluid, granules, and the proligerous disc, in the centre of which is placed 3. The ovulum or vesi- cle of Baer, consisting of 4. A yolk, on the sur- face of which is 5. A germinal membrane, in the middle of which is placed 6. The germinal vesicle or vesicle of Pnrkinjc. In the Bird. 1. The ovary contains 2. Capsules entirely filled with ovula, there being no intervening fluid or proligerous disc. 3. The ovula or yolks, consisting of 4. A yolk. 5. A germinal membrane or cicatricula with the 6. Vesicle of Purkinje in its centre. many other parts of our subject from analogical evidence by the wide discrepancies we find among animals in respect to the period of the arrival of the ova in the uterus ; for there does not appear to be any exact correspondence yet shewn between the time at which this happens and the length of duration of utero-gestation. It may be well, however, to endeavour to form an approximative opinion. In the rabbit, although ova are known frequently to be dis- charged from the Graafian vesicles on the se- cond day after sexual union, they are in general not detected in the uterus before the third or fourth day, and frequently not before the fifth or sixth, at which time they appear as vesicles a little more than a line in diameter, lying un- attached in the upper part of the coniua of the uterus.* In the dog ova have been observed in the Fallopian tubes on the eighth day, but they have not been found in the uterus before the twelfth day. In the cat we have found ova of the size of peas beginning to be attached to the uterus at the twelfth day, and in both the cat and dog we think it probable from the size of the ova that they had already been in the uterus for at least one day, so that the tenth or eleventh day may be regarded as the time when ova generally appear in the uterus of these animals. Hallerand Kuhlemannf never found an ovum in the uterus of the sheep till the seventeenth day after copulation, and our own observations on both the sheep and sow agree precisely with theirs. Ilausmann never found the ova in the uterus of the sow before the period of four weeks after conception, and those of the bitch before three weeks ; but here we must caution the reader against the error of sup- posing that in the sheep and some other animals, because the ova have not been ob- served in the uterus, they do not actually exist there previous to a certain date ; for the large size of the ovum and its membranes, as well as the state of the fetus, which though small is already somewhat developed, entitle us to conclude that the ovum of the sheep must have been some time in the uterus. The recent interesting observations by M. Coste have thrown great light upon this subject, he having detected the ova of the sheep so early as five days after conception. In the cow also, in which the period of gestation is nearly twice the length of that in the sheep, the ovum seems to arrive almost as early in the uterus, if we may judge from the state of advancement of the fetus at an early period.J * M. Coste has shewn that there is considerable variety in respect to the time at. which the ova descend in the rabbit, and thus very reasonably accounts for the difference one generally finds in the state of advancement of the ova in the prc°-- nant uterus. f Vide Kuhlemann's Ohserv. quaid. circa nego- tium generationis in ovibus fact. Gott. 1753. | Immediately after the arrival of the mammi- ferous ovum in the uterus it increases in bulk with amazing rapidity, and its membranes being thus suddenly dilated become in consequence very weak and thin; so tender indeed are they, that if they