HERNIA. 753 mferior or external is rounder and more firm, and attached to the external part of the crest or tuberosity of the pubis. A triangular aperture is thus formed of about an inch or an inch and a quarter in length, the base of which, nearly half an inch across, is situated at the pubis, from which it tapers gradually off in a direction upwards and outwards. For a neat demonstra- tion of this aperture we must also be largely indebted to the knife of the anatomist, its edges being obscured by a fascia* which comes off from them, and passing down on the cord is generally of sufficient density to admit of being traced as far as the tunica vaginalis testis. This ring is never well developed in the female, it then being smaller, rather of an oval figure, and from its deficiency of size appearing to be nearer the pubis than in the male: even in subjects of the latter sex the size of this open- ing exhibits considerable variety. When a hernia has descended through it, the shape and direction of the external ring are altered : the inferior pillar is still more flattened and runs in a more horizontal direction ; the superior is banded in an arched form rather tightly above it; the shape of the entire ring is rendered more oval and its direction more horizontal; but still its relative position with respect to the bone is so far preserved that no hernia can pass, with- out its internal edge resting on this bone. In dissecting a hernia of this description from without, after removing the skin and cellular tissue more or less loaded with fat, the fascia superficialis is exposed. This is a tegu- ment investing most parts of the body, though far more dense iu some situations than in others, and is situated beneath the subcuta- neous fat, with which it is sometimes so much identified as to render its demonstration diffi- cult. At the groin it is usually well developed, and is described as consisting of two distinct lamina, but may {by such as are curious in these dissections) by care be separated into many more.f The superficial layer is very lax, passes over and has no connexion with Poupart's ligament, and is very generally re- moved along with the skin and fat by the in- experienced dissector. Its removal exposes some of the glands of the groin. The deep iayer is more membranous, and possesses more of the determined character of a fascia. It adheres intimately to the muscular fibres of the external oblique, passes thence inwards over the tendoB, to which it cannot be said to be attached, as the connecting cellular tissue is extremely loose, and meets its fellow of the opposite side at the linea alba, to which both are attached. It has an insertion into the pubis, and its adhesion to Poupart's ligament is in many respects extremely intimate. Pass- * This also has been called an intercolumnar fascia, and a spout-like fascia, &c. It is to be re- gretted that such a confusion of nomenclature ob- tains in the description of these parts,—a confusion always embarrassing to the student, and rendering the subject uselessly perplexing and difficult. t Velpeau describes three distinct layers. Ana- tomie des fiegions, torn. ii. p. 70. VOI,. II. ing down in front of the thigh, it covers* several of the lymphatic glands, or in many instances leaves small apertures or deficiencies in which glands are lodged : it then reaches the opening in the fascia lata for the transmission of the saphena vein, to the edge of which it adheres more or less closely, and afterwards descends upon the thigh, having this vein interposed between it and the fascia lata. At the external abdominal ring the fascia superficialis sends down a sheath-like process, investing the cord and descending down over the tunica vaginalis and the testicle : it must, therefore, under any circumstances give a covering to the hernial sac. On the removal of this, the fascia that comes from the edges of the pillars of the ring is observed, and this is generally much thicker and firmer than in the normal condition of the parts. When so thickened, it also admits of subdivision into several laminae. Immediately underneath is the cremaster muscle, its fibres spread out and separated so as to resemble a fascia, though in some instances the contrary may be observed, and they are seen gathered into bundles and greatly thickened. Still deeper are three other layers of fascia, perhaps derived from that which comes from the edges of the internal ring, and finally the hernial sac is exposed. In herniae of moderate size, the spermatic artery, veins, and the vas deferens are usually found in one cord and enclosed in one common sheath lying behind the sac : some exceptions, however, to this rule are observed, one of which, wherein the bloodvessels are situated on its anterior and external surface, and the vas defe- rens posteriorly and internally, has been already noticed and explained. But there is another deviation that seems to be occasioned by the growth of the hernia, and the compression exer- cised by it on the cellular substance connecting the constituent parts of the cord together. It can therefore only be met with in large and old ruptures. Thus, as the tumour increases, it causes this cellular tissue to be stretched just as if the vas deferens and the artery were pulled asunder in different directions, whilst the sac insinuates itself between them, until finally the vessels come to lie on one side of the hernia, or it may be to occupy its anterior surface. The greatest divarication of these vessels exists, as might a priori be expected, towards the lower part of the tumour; it is less towards the middle, and scarcely if at all above, and in the vicinity of the neck of the sac. A knowledge of this fact may teach us to beware how we prolong an incision very far down in operating on large and old hernise. Perhaps the next point of practical import- ance to consider is, whether, with all this ana- tomical and pathological information, it might nevertheless be possible to mistake this disease and confound it with any other affection. The * The inguinal glands arc generally described as lying between the layers of the superficial fascia. On dissection, this has not appeared to me to be the case, 3 D