C7G ANIMAL HEAT. apt to retain it longer than it had clone when exposed to cold without any preparation of the kind implied ; it will resist impressions of cold longer after exercise than it would after a state of perfect quiescence ; the nervous system has acquired new energy; the economy is in a condition to react with greater effect than when depending on the process just described, that, namely, which takes place independently of the agency of the will. The repetition of the effects that follow exercise taken at due in- tervals, hardens the frame to such a degree that the body at length acquires the power, by means of the insensible and involuntary reac- tion alone, to resist degrees of cold which it could not have borne without the violent and voluntarily induced reaction of active muscular exertion. The different states of the body in the cir- cumstances just referred to deserve special attention, because they are reproduced in others, where the cause not being apparent they seem to be spontaneous, though they are in fact, as we shall have occasion to see, under the influence of an analogous cause. We sup- pose that on the first exposure to cold during rest, the reaction from the afflux of blood to the capillaries is slight, and that the cold is even sufficiently intense to produce an opposite effect, that is, paleness of the part chilled. To this symptom of the action of cold, shiver- ing is superadded in various degrees of inten- sity. If recourse be now had to exercise, this state will last for a period long in proportion to its intensity, until violent and prolonged mo- tion have restored the temperature. If the exercise be continued, the heat increases, and even rises above its degree at starting ; in this case it first restores the proper heat of the skin, and then causes this tegument to assume a red colour, which may become extremely intense. To this second state succeeds a third, in which the skin, which had hitherto been dry and un- perspiring, becomes soft and finally bedewed with moisture. Here, then, we have three different states induced under the influence of cold acting at first without opposition on the part of the system, and then combated by powerful and voluntary reaction. First, we have coldness, palene?s,andshivering; secondly, heat and redness; thirdly, moisture of the skin and sweating. In making the application here of what has been said above upon the repetition of these acts, we perceive that at the same degree of external temperature the effects which at first, and under other circumstances, would follow the impression of such a degree of cold, may cease to be felt. This happens from the constitution having improved under the actions and their effects, which have been detailed, and that it is in a state, with the assistance of its own inherent powers of insen- sible and involuntary reaction, to resist refrige- ration. But do we not, when we strengthen the constitution to such a pitch as enables it to resist an influence which was a cause of incon- venience to it previously, cure it of an infir- mity ? It is obvious from what precedes that the temperature of the body may be indiffe- rently affected, either by a great fall in that of the air, or by an insufficient production of heat. The temperature of the body tends to sink equally when, producing a great deal of heat, it is exposed to severe cold, or when, producing little heat, it is exposed to a moderate warmth. In either case the effects upon the economy will be analogous without being identical. In each case there will be a keen sense of cold according to the depression of the external temperature on the one hand, or the slightness of the evolution of heat on the other. In the latter case the insensible reaction will be ex- tremely limited, as well as the voluntary reac- tion, on account of the deficient energy. But there are still resources within the economy. It is then that the involuntary and violent reaction of which we have already spoken takes place. The circulation and the respiration increase in rapidity spontaneously. In the case which we have just supposed, there will be certain series of phenomena, analogous to those we have described as occurring in the instance of a strong individual exposed to the influence of severe cold, who suffers from it at first, and subsequently opposes and vanquishes it by means of a violent and voluntarily superinduced reaction. When the faculty of engendering heat sinks to a certain term, there will be not only a vivid sensation of cold even in summer, but all the other consequences of exposure to a low temperature, such as paleness, shivering, &c.; by-and-by the involuntary reaction will not fail to take place; the respiration and circulation are accelerated, and end by restoring the temperature, if the lesion of the calorific power have not been too extensive, the skin being first hot and dry, and subsequently hot and moist. Here, consequently, we have the three periods precisely as in the case previously described : 1st, coldness, pallor, and shivering; 2d, acceleration of respiration and circula- tion, accompanied in the second period by dry heat, and in the third by sweating. There is therefore the strongest analogy in the two cases. They resemble one another in the cha- racter of the phenomena, and the order of their succession. This is so obvious as merely to require mention; there can be no occasion for more particular illustration. They have also the strictest relationship in their causes, without these, however, being identical. In the first case the individual produces a great deal of heat, but he cannot engender enough by the ordinary and insensible reaction, in conse- quence of which he has recourse to the violent and voluntary reaction, which soon produces the desired effect. In the second, the indivi- dual produces little heat, and the economy may suffer from this diminution of the calorific faculty to the extent of finding itself incapable of restoring a sufficient degree of heat by means of a violent and voluntary reaction. The violent and involuntary reaction then succeeds, and pro- duces all the effects of that which is put into play under the empire of the will. Nor is the resemblance limited to immediate results. It further extends to the remote and definitive effect. For in either case the violent effort