227 FACE angle, and are lost on the fascia of the masseter. A curious slip crosses these transversely, de- scending a little from the fascia covering the parotid gland towards the angle of the mouth. It is the risorius Santorini, which is, however, often wanting. The platysma draws clown the whole of the lower part of the face, or, acting more slightly, depresses the lower lip and the commissure in conjunction with their proper depressors. The slip called risorius, on the contrary, raises the angle of the mouth. The only fasciae of the face are, 1. a pal- pebral fascia, which connects the convex edges of the tarsal cartilages to the border of the orbit; and, 2. a buccal fascia, which, ex- tending forward from the intermaxillary liga- ment, covers the posterior half of the buccinator muscle : anterior to this it becomes lost in the surrounding cellular tissue. General review of tlie muscles of the face.— With one exception, all the muscles of the face are attached at one part to bone, and at another either to the skin or to some other muscle : their fibres are also red and firm at their fixed attachment, pale and thinner at their moveable extremity. With the exception of the orbicularis oris, which is a symmetrical muscle, all the others are arranged in pairs, one on each side of the face. The mouth being the most moveable, has by far the greatest number grouped around it. It pos- sesses, 1. a sphincter, the orbicularis oris, the important action of which on the lips in suction, respiration, whistling, blowing, and playing on wind instruments, in speech and in expression, has already been partly spoken of. The associate of this muscle is the levator menti. 2. The antagonist of this are, a, the naso-labialis, the transversalis nasi, the levator labii superioris, both proper and common to it and the nose, and which raise the upper lip; b, the depressor labii inferioris and pla- tysma, which draw down the lower lip; c, the buccinator, which extends the aperture of the mouth transversely; d, the zygomatics, the risorius Santorini, and the levator anguli oris, which draw the commissure upwards ; and, e, the depressor anguli oris and platysma, which draw it downwards. About the eyes there are on each side, 1. a sphincter, the orbicularis palpebral and pal- pebralis, with the associate, the corrugator supercilii; 2, the dilators, the occipato frontalis and levator palpebrae. About the nose there are, 1, a constrictor, the depressor alai nasi; 2. the dilators, levator labii superioris ala?que nasi and the dilator nasi; 3. the triangularis nasi, which probably both dilates and contracts the orifice of the nostrils according to the attachment, which is fixed. The muscles of the face, including the pyramidalis, the levator palpebrae, the naso- labialis, and the dilator alae nasi, are sixteen pairs in number; if we add the occipito- frontalis, the corrugator supercilii, and the platysma, nineteen pairs, and one symmetrical, the orbicularis oris. Of these, four pairs belong to the eye, three pairs to the nose, ten pairs and one single one to the mouth: two pairs are common to the mouth and the nose. The use of the muscles of the face with respect to expression is a subject of so much interest, and involves so many collateral facts, that it will be better considered under the separate article Physiognomy. It will be sufficient to observe here that the muscles which express lively feeling and the gay passions, such as the oecipito-frontalis, the levator pal- pebrarum, the levators and dilators of the lips and their commissure, do for the most part either raise or draw the parts from the median line; and that those muscles which manifest the sadder feelings and the darker passions, as the corrugator supercilii, the pyramidalis, the levator menti, the depressors of the lower lip and its commissure, either depress the parts or draw them from the median line. The constant and habitual exercise of either of these sets of muscles leaves corresponding permanent folds in the skin, which are in- dicative of the habitual feelings and passions of the individual. T/ie integuments of the face.—The skin of the face is, with the exception of some parts, remarkable for its tenuity, for its abundant supply of vessels, nerves, and follicles; for the growth of hair, which covers some parts of it; and for its attachment to the subjacent muscles. The vascularity of the skin in some parts is even beautiful, tinting the cheek and lips, as in the act of blushing, assisting in the expression of the feelings and passions. The subcutaneous cellular tissue is, in general, very dense in this region, and is mingled with more or less fat, except on the eyelids, where it is loose, delicate, and quite destitute of adipose tissue. Generally speaking, the skin of the face is more adherent, and the subjacent cel- lular tissue is more dense and less fatty, along the median line than at the lateral parts; the nose and lips offer examples of this fact. At the sides the cellular tissue is looser below, near the base of the jaw, than higher up on the cheeks. Most of the muscles are more or less surrounded with fat, which, however, par- ticularly abounds on the cheeks and between the masseter and buccinator muscles. Vessels of tlie face.—The arteries are de- rived chiefly from the external carotid, viz. 1. the external maxillary or the facial artery, and its branches; 2. branches from the tem- poral, particularly the transverse facial artery ; 3. branches from the internal maxillary, more particularly the infra-orbitar, the buccal, and the superior and inferior dental arteries; 4. some arteries which emerge from the orbit and are derived from the ophthalmic branch of the internal carotid. These vessels communicate very freely with each other, and form with their accompanying veins an intricate vascular network over the face. See Carotid Ar» tery. The veins are principally branches of the external jugular, viz. 1. the facial vein with its branches, which correspond generally to the trunk and branches of the facial artery, except that the facial vein is rather more superficial 92