97 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. electricity than those of a phlegmatic tempera- ment. 3. An increased accumulation of elec- tricity takes place in the evening. 4. Spirituous drinks augment its intensity. 5. The elec- tricity of Women is more frequently negative than that of men. 6. In winter, while the body is very cold, no electricity is manifested, but it gradually reappears as the body is warmed. 7. The whole body naked, as well as every part of .it, shews the same phenomena. 8. During the existence of rheumatism, the electricity is greatly diminished in intensity, but as the dis- ease declines it again increases. Gardini found that the electricity of women during menstrua- tion and pregnancy is negative. Some individuals exhibit electrical pheno- mena much more readily than others. Some persons, for instance, hardly ever pull off articles of dress worn next the skin without sparks and a crackling noise being produced. It is related of a certain monk that sparks were always emitted from his hair when it was stroked back- wards ; and of an Italian lady that her skin, when rubbed with a linen cloth, gave out sparks, attended with a crackling noise. The same phenomenon, as exhibited by the cat, and by other animals covered with a soft fur, is daily observed. But it has been stated that the cat's electricity may be accumulated in its own body and given off suddenly, so as to produce a shock. Romer says,* " If one take a cat in his lap, in dry weather, and apply the left hand to its breast, while with the right he strokes its back, at first he obtains only a few sparks from the hair; but, after continuing to stroke for some time, he receives a sharp shock, which is often felt above the wrists of both arms. At the same moment, the animal runs off with expressions of terror, and will seldom submit itself to a second experiment." In repeating this experiment, we have obtained the like result. We are not aware of any other observer having met with any thing resembling an accumulation of electricity in quadrupeds, excepting Cotugno, who asserted that, in dissecting a living mouse, lie felt an electric shock when its tail touched his finger.f XL Uses of animal electricity.—The pur- pose which the electrical function is fitted to serve in the animal economy is proba- bly not single. It is very evident that the discharge from the organs frequently strikes terror into the enemies of their possessors, and thus it may be regarded as a means of defence; while, in certain circumstances, it may be useful in enabling the fish more easily to secure its prey. But this, probably, is not all. It is very likely, as Dr. Roget has suggested,! that the electrical organs communicate to the fish perceptions of electrical states and changes in surrounding bodies, (very different from any that we can feel,) in the same way as other organs of sense convey perceptions with regard * Gilbert's Ann. der Phys. B. xvii. t Humboldt. Ueber die gereii-te Musk-ei-uttd-' Nervenfaser. Berlin, 1793. i. 30. t Bridgewater Treatise, i, 31. , \ L VOL. II. J' V v ,. -— to light and sound. Such perceptions we carl conceive to be very useful and pleasurable to animals living in the dark abysses of the waters. Some of Dr. John Davy's observations make it very doubtful whether the electrical function is ever subservient to that of prehension of food. He kept young torpedos for a period of five months or more, in large jars of salt water, during which time they ate nothing, although very small fishes, both dead and alive, were put into the water. Yet they grew, and their elec- trical energies and general activity increased.* The small fishes seemed to have no dread of the torpedos. On one occasion, however, when a lively torpedo was placed in a small vessel along with a smelt, and excited to discharge, the smelt was evidently alarmed, and once or twice, when exposed to the shock, leaped nearly out of the vessel, but it was not injured by the electricity. It has also been frequently ob- served of the gymnotus that it eats very few of the fishes that it kills by its discharge. The electrical power of the young fish is proportionally very much greater than that of the old, and can be exerted without exhaus- tion and loss of life much more frequently. After a few shocks, most of the old fish which Dr. Davy has endeavoured to keep alive have become languid, and died in a few hours, whilst young ones, from three to six inches long, remained active during ten or fifteen days, and sometimes lived as many weeks. Hence Dr. Davy concludes that the chief use of the electrical function is to guard the fish from its enemies, rather than to enable it to destroy its prey, and so provide itself with food. He fur- ther conjectures that, besides its defensive use, the electrical function may serve also to assist in respiration by effecting the decomposition of the surrounding water, and so supplying the gills with air when the fish is lying covered with mud or sand, in which it is easy to con- ceive that pure air may be deficient. And Dr. Davy has often imagined that he saw something of this kind going on. After repeated dis- charges, he has observed, all around the margin of the pectoral fins, an appearance as if very minute bubbles of air were generated in it and confined. That this may be one purpose which the electrical function is designed to serve, is rendered still more probable by the circumstance, that the gills (in the torpedo at least) are largely supplied with twigs of the electrical nerves. In fishes in which he had cut the electrical nerves, Dr. Davy found the secretion of the cutaneous mucus considerably diminished or altogether arrested; and hence he supposes that the electricity assists in the production of this fluid. Lastly, it has been conjectured that the elec- trical function is subservient to that of digestion. This idea was started by Mr. J. Couch some years ago.f He says, " Without denying that the torpedo may devour that which it disables by the shock, I conceive that the principal use of this power has a reference to the functions of -J Phil. Trans. 1835. >"> s j N^Jiinn. Trans, xiv. 89. «-'. { ' A"*** H / 1