ECHINODERMATA. 39 transverse fibres (p, fig. 18,) unite the lateral surfaces of the sockets, and serve to approxi- mate them, acting collectively as a sort of sphincter, and as antagonists to those first de- scribed. Lastly, five muscles (figs. 10 and 17, o, o, o,) pass between the semicircular pieces on the upper part of the lantern. Besides the muscles described, there are ten very thin whitish bands (s, s,) which arise in pairs from the external forked extremities of the semi- circular pieces, and are inserted into the border of the shell in the intervals between the arches. Tiedemann describes these bands as muscles; Meckel, on the other hand, considers them as ligaments; in the E. esculentus they certainly seem to us to be ligamentous. Two liga- mentous filaments pass from the central end of every semicircular piece to the gullet. A co- vering of the peritoneum envelopes the dental apparatus, extending to it from the border of the shell. The oesophagus (fig. 19, a,) rises through the lantern, to which it is connected by fine ligaments, and after a few curvatures termi- nates in a wider part of the alimentary canal, somewhat in the same way as the small intes- tine joins the great in the human body. The wider portion (b, b,) of the canal turns twice round the inside of the shell in a waving manner, and terminates at the anus (c). In Fig. 19. Internal view of Echinus sexatilis. A, under half; B, upper. its second or superior circuit it changes to an opposite direction, but its flexures in both cir- cuits are parallel. The tissue of the alimentary canal is very delicate, the external tunic is formed by the peritoneum, which attaches the intestine by a mesentery to the shell, lines the inside of the latter, and is reflected over the ovaries and the lantern. The inner coat of the intestine is soft and of a brownish-yellow co- lour; between it and the external, Tiedemann states that delicate longitudinal and circular muscular fibres are distinguishable. The Echini are generally believed to feed on mollusca and Crustacea, and in corroboration of this, Tiedemann states that he has found in the Echinus sexatilis small univalve and bivalve shells entire among the excrements, besides fragments of larger ones. Blainville,* on the other hand, could never find any thing else than sand in the alimentary canal, and he re- marks that the general opinion as to the carni- i * Diet, des Sc. Nat. art. Oursin. vorous habits of the sea-urchin is probably more an inference from the structure of the teeth and jaws than the result of observation ; he, however, adds that M.Bosc had witnessed an echinus in the act of seizing and devouring a small crustaceous animal. In the intestine of the E. esculentus we have usually found numerous small morsels of sea-weed, for the most part encrusted with a flustra. The excre- ments, which are in the form of small round pellets about the size of peppercorns, consist chiefly of sandy matter with fragments of shells, but it would be difficult to say whether these are the remains of digested mollusca or merely a portion of the usual testaceous debris so abundant in sand and mud. The principal difference of the alimentary organs in the different genera of Echinida de- pends on the position of the anus and the presence or absence of teeth. In Scutella, Clypeaster, Fibularia, Echinoneus, Galerites, Ananchites, and Spatangus, the anus as well as the mouth opens on the under surface. In Echinus, Cidaris, Cassichda, and Nucleolites, it is situated on the upper surface; in the first two exactly in the centre, in the last two at a greater or less distance from it. The teeth are wanting in Spatangus and Cassidula. c. The alimentary canal of the Holothuria is Fig. 20. Hulothuria tubulosu : alimentary canal and blood* vessels. The respiratory organ, c, c, is cut short.