425 GENERATION. liar change becomes an independent individual entering upon a new life. Others arise like the parts of a tree by buds which remain for a time attached to the parent stem, and being afterwards separated from it assume an inde- pendent existence. A third class of animals have the power of forming and throwing off from their bodies a small portion of organized matter, which, though at the time of its sepa- ration from the parent, not resembling it either in form or organization, is yet possessed of the power of living for itself, and, after passing through a variety of successive changes of growth and evolution, of at last acquiring the exact semblance of the parent by which it was produced. In a fourth and last class, com- prehending much the greatest number of ani- mals, the function of reproduction involves a greater complication of vital processes than in the three other classes above alluded to. The union of two individuals of different sex be- comes necessary, and the young owe their origin to the evolution of a more complex organized structure termed the egg, which is formed in and separated from the body of the female parent, and is the product of the union of the male and female of all animals in which the distinction of sex exists. The ovum or egg is most familiarly known to us in the eggs of domestic birds, to which the product of sexual union in all animals belonging to this fourth class bears a strict analogy in every essential particular. It may be stated as a general fact, that the reproductive function involves a greater num- ber of vital processes in the higher and more complicated than in the lower and simpler kinds of animals. Yet there are exceptions to this rule, and we do not always trace a correspondence between the degree of com- plication of the generative process of any animal and the place which that animal holds in the scale of being; for there are some tribes of animals which are propagated in more than one of the ways above mentioned, and there are some, to which, from the simplicity of their other functions and organization, a low place in the zoological scale has been assigned, and which nevertheless resemble the higher animals in respect to their mode of reproduction. A very superficial view, however, of the vari- eties of the form obvious in the reproductive process of different animals demonstrates the importance of the reproductive functions in the economy of life, as it points out the intimate relation which these functions bear to the habits, mode of life, and organization of each animal, and shews the infinite care and fore- sight with which nature, in every variety of circumstance, has provided for the regular and undisturbed performance of those acts by which the species of organize 1 beings are con- tinued from age to age, in an undeviating suc- cession of generations. These facts also fully justify our regarding, along with Cuvier, the reproductive function as constituting one of the fundamental divisions in a classification of the processes of the animal economy. While, therefoie, the principal object of the VOL. II. present article is to describe the process of generation in Man and the higher Vertebrated animals, it will be necessary and proper for us to allude also to the reproductive function as it is performed in all the various members of the animal series; for in this, as in other de- partments of Physiology, the more complicated forms of the process derive much illustration from the study of the more simple, and we may hope thus more fully to point out the general importance of the functions now under consideration. We purpose to follow an arrangement adapted chiefly to the consideration of Human Generation. In all the animals in which dis- tinction of sex subsists, the male and female organs subservient to reproduction must co- operate for the completion of the generative process; and in the greater number of the more perfect animals, as also in Man, the two kinds of sexual organs being placed on separate in- dividuals of the same species, the concurrence of both these individuals, or of both male and female parents, is necessary for the for- mation of the fruitful products from which the offspring proceeds. The circumstances, then, which give rise to the union of the sexes and the phenomena which accompany that union, form some of the topics of the present article. The product of fruitful sexual union in all animals is one or more eggs, from each of which, under the influence of certain favourable circumstances, different in different tribes, the young animal is produced by an intricate pro- cess of vital growth. The greater part of the substance composing the egg is furnished by the female parent: but this egg of the female would be wholly barren, or would not undergo any of those changes by which the young animal is formed, unless it received irfsome way or other the influence of the product of the generative organs of the male; and the egg formed by the female may be regarded as im- perfect until the change now alluded to has been effected in it. It is then said to be fecundated or rendered fruitful by the semen of the male. The mode of formation of the egg and seminal matter, the mode of their separation from the place of their formation, the structure and properties of each of these products, the manner in which they are brought together, the influence which they exert upon one another, and the consequent result in the production of the young, con- stitute the principal remaining topics which fall to be discussed by us at present. In this article our attention must chiefly be confined to such operations or functions of the male and female parents as are preliminary to or necessary for the formation of a ripe and fruit- ful ovum,—that is, an egg capable of giving birth to a new animal the same as either of its parents, when placed in those circumstances which are favourable to its evolution. It is not intended to speak in this place of the changes of the ovum itself in which the for- mation of the young animal consists : the consideration of these is reserved for the article Ovum. 2 F