ENTOZOA. 118 complicated structure to the vermiculi of the Human Echinococcus on his own authority, and speaks doubtfully respecting the coronet of hooklets and suctorious mouths of the ver- miculi contained in the cyst of the Echinococcus of the Sheep, Hog, &c. The Echinococcus hominis, (Jig. 57,) which occurs in cysts in the Fig. 57. liver, spleen, omen- tum, or mesentery, is composed ofan exter- nal yellow coriace- ous, sometimes crus- taceous tunic, and an internal transparent, firm, gelatinous membrane. The form of the contained ver- miculi is represented in the magnified view subjoined, (fig. 58,) taken from the Elminto- grafia humuna of Delle Chiaje. Fig. 58. Echinococcus hominis. Vermictcfi ofiEchinococcus hominis, highly magnified Miiller*\fe!&. recently described a species of Echinococ^svgaded with the urine by a young man labouring under symptoms of renal disease. The tunfe of the containing cyst was a thick white membrane, not naturally divided into laminse; th&Wiimalcules floating in the con- tained fluid presented a circle of hooklets and four obtuse processes round the head ; the pos- terior end of the body obtuse: some of thenj were inclosed in small vesicles floating in the large one; others presented a filamentary pro- cess at their obtuse end, probably a connecting pedicle which had been broken through. Of the species entitled Echinococcus veteri- norum we have carefully examined several in- dividuals soon after they were extracted from the recently-killed animal, (a sow, in which they existed in great abundance in cysts in the abdomen.) The containing cysts were com- posed of two layers, artificially separable, both of a gelatinous texture, nearly colourless and subtransparent, the external one being the firmest. The contained fluid was colourless and limpid, with a few granular bodies floating Oscula suetoria quatuor ; an haec in omnibus ? Ipse saltern in suis Echinococcis non vidi, set! dum Be- rolini recens examinarem, microscopio solito et bono destitutes erara.—Hist. Entoz. * Archiv fur Physiol. (Jahresbcricht), 1836. in it, and immense numbers of extremely mi- nute particles applied but not adherent to the internal surface of the cyst. On examining these particles with a high magnifying power, they were seen to be living animalcules of an ovate form, moving freely by means of superfi- cial vibratile cilia, having an orifice at the smaller end from which a granular and glairy substance was occasionally discharged, and a trilobate de- pression at the greater and anterior extremity produced by the retraction of part of the body. I watched attentively and for a long period a number of these animalcules in the hope of seeing the head completely protruded, but with- out success. On compressing the animalcula between plates of glass, a group of long, slen- der, straight, sharp-pointed spines became vi- sible within the body, at its anterior part, and directed towards the anterior depression, pre- cisely resembling the parts described and fi- gured by Ehrenberg as the teeth of the Poly- gastric Infusories; the rest of the body was occupied by large clear globules, the stomachs ? and smaller granules. Animalcules thus orga- nized, it is evident, cannot be classed with cystic Entozoa, but must be referred to the Polygastric Infusoria, The globular cyst which is commonly deve- loped in the brain of Sheep differs from the Echinococcus in having organically attached to itanumber of small vermiform appendages, pro- vided severally with suctorious orifices, and an uncinated rostellum, similar to those in the head of the Armed Tanis. But as this cystic genus, denominated Canurus, (xonof, communis, av^oc, cauda, from the terminal cyst being common to many bodies and heads,) is not met with in the human subject, a simple notice of it is here sufficient. When the dilated cyst forms the termina- tion of a single Entozoon, organized as above described, it is termed Cysticercus, (xvotk, vesica, xipx.of, cauda), and of this genus there are several species, distinguished for the most part by the forms and proportions of the neck or body intervening between the head and the cyst; as for example, the Cyst. J'asciolaris, Cyst, fistularis, Cyst, longicoltis, Cyst, tenuicollis, &c. The only species of this genus known to infest the human body is the Cysticercus cellulose, Rud. (the Hydatis Finna of Blumenbach). It is developed, like the Trichina, in the interfascicular cel- lular tissue of the muscles, and, like it, is in- variably surrounded by an adventitious cap- sule of the surrounding substance condensed by the adhesive inflammation. Fig. 59 exhi- Fig. 59. Portion of human muscle, with Cysticercus cdluloscc.