FCETUS. 320 Fig. 149. Diaphragmatic Hernia, a. The heart, b, b. The intestines which had passed through the diaphragm and occupy the left side of the thorax, displacing the heart, c, c. Por- tions of intestine below the diaphragm, d. The stomach, e. The liver. half an hour, had no external appearance of any thing abnormal; but, on examination after death, the left side of the diaphragm was found not to exist, and the small intestines and spleen were contained in the thorax; in all other respects the condition of the child exactly resembled that described above.* Hernia cerebri or eneephalocele.—The af- fection to which these names are applied is not of unfrequent occurrence in the foetus. It con- sists of a tumour protruding from the cavity of the cranium through an aperture in the bony structure, covered externally by the integuments, lined internally by the dura mater and arach- noid, and containing portions of the cerebrum or cerebellum, together with serous fluid, with which the cerebral structure is in general infil- trated and softened down ; sometimes the con- tents of the tumour appear to be completely fluid. This affection is most frequently situated on some point of the central line of the head, commencing at the root of the nose and ter- minating at the foramen magnum of the occi- pital bone ; these being the situations in which the foetal head, during a considerable period, consists only of membrane; the writer has seen it in the centre of the forehead at the .interior and posterior fontanelle and in the centre of the occipital hone. According to the observa- tions of Mr. Adams,f the tumour is most fre- quently situated at some point in the middle line of the proper occipital portion of the os * For other instances of this affection, see Ar- chives Generales, torn. vii. p. 142. Transactions Medicales, torn. xii. p. 359. f See an excellent paper by him in the Dublin Medical Journal, vol. ii. p. 321. occipitis, as in Dr. Collins's case, to be noticed presently; but it has happened to the writer to observe it more frequently in the other situa- tions above mentioned. In one of the cases related by Mr. Adams, it occurred just over the right eye, and the subject of it had reached his twentieth year when the account of his case was published. (See fg. 150.) Fig. 150. In such instances the bony vault of the head is usually much smaller than in ordinary cases, being proportioned to the diminished quantity of its contents, and the sutures and fontanelles are found closed. In the first case of this affection which came under the writer's notice, a tumour, about the size and somewhat of the shape of a fresh fig, hung from the centre of the child's forehead down over the face; it was only partially filled, and apparently with a gelatinous fluid; when compressed towards the forehead the contents were diminished, but, in the same proportion, the child appeared distressed, and the features began to be distorted, the vault of the cra- nium was in a great measure deficient of its proper developement, the parietal and frontal bones rising very little above the base of the cranium, when they turned over to form the roof of the skull. The child did not present any other external deviation in form; it lived ten days, taking food, digesting, and perform- ing the other common functions like other chil- dren, but then pined away and died. On exa- mination after death, it was found that the bag which had protruded and hung over the face was lined by the dura mater and arachnoid, that the cerebrum was entirely absent, as was also part of one side of the cerebellum; the aperture in the frontal bone, through which the hernia passed, was situated just over the root of the nose, in the line of the suture, was about three-sixteenths of an inch in diameter, and with smoothly rounded edges; the sutures and fontanelles were quite closed up. M. Moreau,