538 ORGAN OF HEARING. that the semicircular canals open into the am- pullary dilatations and the vestibule. The common sinus is an elongated, laterally compressed pouch, and lies in the posterior part of the vestibule. It extends into the upper horn to join the ampulla of the superior vertical, and of the horizontal semicircular tubes ; and into the posterior and lower horn, to join the ampulla of the posterior semicircular tube, and to receive the tubulus communis and cylindrical extremity of the horizontal tube, as they emerge from their respective canals. Its upper end, which is larger than its lower, lies in the hemi-elliptical cavity, to the bottom of which it is fixed by nervous filaments. The membraneous tubes are only about a third part of the calibre of the semicircular canals in which they are contained. Like the latter they are distinguished by the epithets, superior vertical, posterior vertical, and hori- zontal. Each membraneous semicircular tube opens at one of its extremities, like its cor- responding osseous canal, into an oval dila- tation called ampulla, which on its part com- municates with the common sinus. As the vertical semicircular canals unite at one of their extremities to form the common canal, so their corresponding membraneous tubes also unite to form a common tube, tubulus communis, which occupies the common canal. At the place where the nervous filaments enter the common sinus, its wall presents a much more considerable thickness and consist- ence than elsewhere. According to Steifensand,* who has ex- amined the structure of the ampullae very carefully, each ampulla presents a very much arched surface, superficies convexa, and op- posite to this a concave or indented surface, superficies concava s. injiexa, which receives the nervous filaments. Where the nerve enters there is a transverse depression, sulcus trans- versa, by which this surface is divided into two parts. This transverse depression on the outside produces in the interior a fold of the membrane composing the wall of the ampulla, and through which the nerve enters. This fold forms a transverse septum, septum trans- versum, which divides the interior of the am- pulla into two parts; one of which, the sinus part, communicates by the osteum sinus with the common sinus, and the other, the tube part, by the osteum tubuli with the membraneous tube. Saccule, sacculus rotundus. This is a round membraneous bag, smaller than the common sinus in front of which it lies in the hemisphe- rical depression of the vestibule. It is firmly fixed in its place by nervous filaments which proceed to it through the apertures observed in the bottom of the hemispherical depression. As has been mentioned in regard to the com- mon sinus, the wall of the saccule presents an increase of thickness and consistence at the place where the nervous filaments enter it. * Miiller's Archiv. fiir Anat. Physiol, und wis- senschaftl. Medecin. 1835. Heft. II. pp. 173, 174. Small in the Mammifera, the saccule is very distinct and large in fishes. The common sinus and saccule adhere to each other, but whether their cavities com- municate has not been determined. They are fixed, as has been said, to the inner wall of the vestibule, by the nervous filaments which they receive through the apertures with which that part is perforated. Towards the outer wall they are nowhere in contact with the base of the stapes, the perilymph intervening. This circumstance, first distinctly pointed out by Scarpa,* and particularly insisted on by Bre- schet, shows that it is only by the intermedium of the perilymph that the movements of the stapes can have any impression on the nervous expansions of the membraneous labyrinth. The common sinus, ampullae, semicircular tubes, and saccule are composed of a firm trans- parent membraneous coat,within which is a ner- vous expansion, and outside which is a cellulo- vascular layer, in some places tinged black or brown. Of the nervous expansion we shall speak under the head of the auditory nerves. In the sheep, hare, rabbit, &c. the walls of the membraneous labyrinth present patches of black pigment, a circumstance noticed by Scarpa,! Comparetti,J and Breschet.ยง Before I knew of the observations of these anatomists I had myself observed the fact. I was not, however, led to the discovery of it by accident; but, being engaged in researches on the pig- ment of the eye, and considering the analogy which the organs of sense bear to each other in their general anatomical structure, I was curious to know whether pigment did not exist also in the ear. Examination proved to me that it did; for I found, as Scarpa and Com- paretti had previously noticed, pigment de- posited in the form of small black spots in the membraneous parts of the labyrinth in dif- ferent Mammifera. In some I have found a distinct cellulo-vascular layer of a black or brown colour forming the outer surface of the membraneous labyrinth. And, contrary to what Breschet asserts, I have found pigment in the membraneous labyrinth of the human ear also. It appears, especially on the am- pullae, under the form of a slight but perfectly distinct brown tinge, similar to what is seen around the ciliary processes in the eyes of Albinos. Semicircular tubes are found in all the Ver- tebrate animals, with the single exception of the Cyclostomata. When they do exist there are never more nor less than three. The common sinus, ampullae, semicircular tubes, and saccule contain a limpid humour. Suspended in this humour there is found in the common sinus and also in the saccule a small mass of calcareous powder. The liquid of the membraneous labyrinth, * Anatomicae disquisitiones de Auditu et Olfactu, s. xvi. p. 55. t Op. cit. s. iv. p. 49. i Observat. Anatom. de aure interna coroparat. p. xxxii. Praefat. ยง Op. Cit.