GENERATION. 430 some fishes and reptiles; but the increased knowledge of the structure and habits of these animals, and in particular the observations of Redi* and others, demonstrated the error of this opinion, and shewed it to have arisen merely from the circumstance of their real mode of generation not having been observed. After this many felt inclined to reject entirely the occurrence of spontaneous generation in any class of organized beings, and at the present day the question cannot be regarded as by any means entirely set at rest. From the nature of the observations and experiments required in an investigation of this nature, there is almost an impossibility of arriving at a perfectly satis- factory conclusion; but so far as the facts at present entitle us to form an opinion, it may be stated that spontaneous generation, if it occurs, takes place in the simplest kinds of organized beings only; that in most of them it is only occasional; and that therefore this form of ge- neration is to be looked upon as a rare excep- tion to the usual and almost universal mode of reproduction by the separation of a living por- tion from a parent body. Minute animalcules, the greater number of which are so small as to be visible only with the microscope, are formed in the infusions of almost all kinds of organic matter, such as starch, sugar, gum, seeds, and different animal substances, when these infusions enter into pu- trefaction. The kinds of these animalcules are very numerous, and the circumstances which seem to determine the formation of one or other sort are infinitely varied. Thus the nature of the substance suspended in the infusion; and, in the same infusions, the degree of heat, the extent of the decomposition, the quantity and nature of the air admitted, the rapidity with which it is renewed, and the strength of the in- fusion or the relative proportion of water and organic matter in it, all appear to exert a certain inlluence in determining the formation of one or other of the kinds of animalcule. Two suppositions may be entertained regard- ing the first origin of Infusoria; the one, that of their spontaneous generation ; the other, that of their developement or evolution from some pre-existing egg or germ. Those who disbe- lieve in the first and adopt the second hypo- thesis hold that the ova of the animalcules exist in the substances of the infusions, or are float- ing every where in the atmospheric air; that these ova become developed in that species of infusion only which is suited to serve as their proper nidus or matrix; and that all the varieties of animalculse in different infusions depend upon the infusions being suited, from their composition or the external agencies to which they are subjected, to cause the develop- ment of different sorts of ova. The supporters of the hypothesis of Spontaneous Generation hold, on the other hand, that certain changes of composition of the organic molecules in the infusions, in whatever way induced, are the sole cause of the formation of one or other kind of ainrnalcule. * De Geaeratione Insectorum. Amst. 1686. Spallanzani,* one of the most strenuous op- ponents of the hypothesis of spontaneous gene- ration, shewed by very accurate experiments that no animalcules are formed when the access of air to the infusion is completely prevented, as for example, when it is covered with a little oil, or the vessel containing it is closely sealed ; and he thence concluded that the germs of the ani- malcules must exist in the atmosphere; but the supporters of the hypothesis consider them- selves as entitled to hold that no production of animalcules takes place in these circumstances, merely because the exclusion of the air has the effect of preventing that species of decomposi- tion which they regard as necessary for the formation of the Infusoria. It is stated by some experimenters that ani- malcules are produced when the infusions are exposed to hydrogen and nitrogen gases, or to atmospheric air artificially prepared ; in which it is held that there can be no living ova of animalcules. Again, it appears from numerous experiments, that when the infusions have been exposed to a boiling temperature, which is ge- nerally believed to have the effect of destroying the life of all organized productions, the quan- tity of animalcules formed is not diminished. Some air, it has already been stated, must always be present; but so far as we are aware, the ex- periments on this point have not been per- formed in such a manner as to ascertain, whe- ther or not, when an infusion is allowed to come in contact with a considerable portion of con- fined air, and the whole apparatus is exposed to a temperature above that of boiling water, the production of Infusoria may still take place; and we are consequently obliged, in the absence of more direct experiment, to have recourse to analogical reasoning. The following considerations appear to us to throw the balance of evidence in favour of the spontaneous production of Infusoria, mould, and the like. Firstly, those organic matters which are most soluble in water, and at the same time most prone to decomposition, give rise to the greatest quantity of animalcules or cryptogamic plants. Secondly, the nature of the animalcule or vegetable production bears a constant relation to the state of the infusion, so that, in similar circumstances, the same are always produced without this being influenced by the atmo- sphere. There seems also to be a certain pro- gressive advance in the productive powers of the infusion, for at the first the animalcules are only of the smallest kinds or Monades, and after- wards they become gradually larger and more complicated in their structure; after a time the production ceases, although the materials are by no means exhausted. When the quantity of water is very small and the organic matter abundant, the production is usually of a vege- table nature; when there is much water,animal- cules are more frequently produced. Thirdly, on the supposition that infusory ani- malcules are developed from ova, it is neces- * Tracts on the Nature of Animals and Vegeta- bles. Edin. 1799, (transl.)