302 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. by Dr. Yelloly, as liable on turning her eyes aside to drop glasses, plates, &c. which she held in safety so long as she looked at them ;" but that the absence of motion in the lips on the division of the fifth is due to the loss of sensation merely, and not of voluntary power, is positively proved by the effect of the division of the portio dura on the two sides, an experi- ment performed for the first time by Mayo : in it the voluntary motion of the lips is altogether lost, while sensation continues unaffected,* and hence the division of the fifth cannot deprive them of voluntary power, but only of sensation. The explanation of Mayo has been admitted and adopted by Bell himself in his " Exposi- tion," 1824, in which he has added to the detail of his experiment, as already related, the following note : " what I attributed to the effect of the loss of motion by the division of the fifth, was in fact produced by loss of sen- sation;" and he corroborates this by the case of a gentleman in whom loss of sensation in the lip had been produced by extraction of a tooth. " On putting a tumbler of water to his lips, he said, ' Why, you have given me a broken glass :' he thought that he put half a glass to his lips, because the lip had been de- prived of sensation in one half of its extent; lie retained the power of moving the lip, but not of feeling with the lip." The last particu- lar noted is of great value, as demonstrating satisfactorily the separation of the two faculties, and, taken in connexion with anatomical con- siderations, renders it necessary to refer them to separate sources. It is manifest, then, that the circumstance of the animal not taking up the food by means of the lips, after the divi- sion of the fifth nerve, is not proof that it had lost the voluntary muscular power of them, but only that it did exert it, not having been, as it were, apprised of the necessity of doing so. It is also stated by Bell, that on the division of the nerve upon one side, " the side of the lip was observed to hang low, and it was dragged to the other side." This result also is objected to by Mayo, first, as contrary to his observation, for in his first experiment, after the division of the infra-orbital and inferior maxillary nerves, " the lips did not lose their tone or customary apposition to each other and to the teeth;" and secondly, as being the effect of an extensive division of the muscular fibres, a cause quite adequate certainly to explain the fall of the lip, independent of the influence of the nerves. The difficulty, there- fore, which these circumstances appear at first to present is removed, and we are left to deter- * It will be satisfactory to those interested in this question to know, that the result of Mayo's experiment has received full confirmation from those of others; and first from Shaw, who has bestowed so much labour to establish the respiratory connexion of the portio dura. In the Medical and Physical Journal for December, 1822, he writes, " immediately on cutting the nerve (the portio dura) on both sides, the lips became so paralyzed that the animal could no longer use them in raising its food." The same result has been obtained by Mr. Broughton in experiments upon the horse, as detailed in the same Journal, June, 1823. mine the question by other means, and they are abundantly furnished from other sources. In the first place, the division of the nerves completely destroys the sensation of the parts to which they are distributed, without pro- ducing any effect upon the tone or contractile power of those parts, nor does irritation of the divided nerves excite muscular contractions. Secondly, were these nerves the source of the voluntary powers of the parts they supply, the division of every other nerve must fail to affect that power while the former remain entire; but Mayo, in several instances, divided the portio dura alone on both sides, and the result was, that " the lips immediately fell away from the teeth, and hung flaccid," and could not be used by the animal to take hold of food, and consequently had lost ail volun- tary power; while, " when the extremity, nearest the lips, of either divided nerve was pinched, the muscles of the lips and nostrils on that side were convulsed." Bell doubtless asserts that after the division of the portio dura nerve on one side, the animal " ate without the slightest impediment;" to this Mayo objects that " the experiment is inconclusive, because the nerve was not divided on both sides;" but in truth the experiment is quite conclusive, for though the animal can eat, and without impediment, his eating is far from perfect, and the imperfection is not the less obvious because confined to one side. When an animal which has had the portio dura divided upon one side only takes food, the lips remain motionless upon that side; and when it masticates, the lips continue in the same state, while on the otheT side they ac- tively co-operate, the food and saliva escaping on the side at which the nerve has been cut, and on the other being confined within the mouth. Now, if any action of the lips be voluntary, it is assuredly that by which they co-operate in the prehension and mastication of food; and since no action of their muscles can be excited by irritation of the branches of the fifth nerve, while such action can be ex- cited by that of the portio dura, and all volun- tary action is destroyed by the division of that nerve, but one inference remains, that ot Mayo already adverted to, viz.—that those branches of the fifth in question possess no influence upon the voluntary faculty of the muscles; that they are exclusively sentient; and that the contractile power of the muscles of the face, whether voluntary or involuntary, is to be attri- buted to another source. After what has been stated, we must admit that Mayo has been the first expressly to an- nounce that the function of these nerves is restricted to sensation. Beyond that, however, he has not gone, in reference to the question of sensation, in the publication alluded to, though it must be admitted that little remained to be added in order to complete the conclu- sion, that the ganglionic portion of the nerve is exclusively sentient. At the same time he inferred, " from the preceding anatomical details,"—viz. their exclusive distribution to muscles,—" that other branches of the third