702 HERMAPHRODITISM. internal sexual organs, and very generally pre- sents a mixture of the organs of the two sexes in various degrees. Such hermaphroditic twin cattle have long been distinguished in this country under the name of free-martins. In some exceptional cases only have they been observed capable of breeding; and generally they shew no sexual desire for the bull, or the bull for them. In appearance they resemble the ox or spayed heifer, and have a similar, or still greater disposition to become fat under the use of good food. In the paper to which we have referred, Mr. Hunter has described the dissection of three free-martins : and one of these seems to belong to our present division of female transverse hermaphroditism. The clitoris and external parts appear to have been strictly of the female type, and there was a small udder with four teats. The vagina terminated in a blind end a little beyond the opening of the urethra, and from this point the vagina and uterus were im- pervious. The uterus at its superior part divided into two horns, and at the termi- nations of these horns, not ovaria, but bodies resembling the male testicles were found. These bodies had not a perfect internal structure like that of testicles, but resembled these organs in so far that, 1st, they were nearly as large as the male testes, and much larger than the female ovaries; 2nd, they were supplied with tortuous spermatic arteries like those of the bull or rigdil; and 3d, cremaster muscles passed up to them, as in rigdils, from the abdominal rings. There were two small vesicular semi- nales placed behind between the bladder and uterus, with their ducts opening into the vagina. Nothing, according to Mr. Hunter, similar to the vasa deferentia was present; but Guilt is inclined to believe that the parts which Mr. Hunter has described as the horns of the uterus were really the deferent vessels. Professor Gurlt* has himself given, from a preparation in the Museum of the Berlin Veterinary School, the accompanying sketch of the malformed sexual organs of a five-year old free-martin, (fig. 294,) which presents to us an illustration of Mr. Hunter's supposed mistake, at the same time that it affords a well-marked example of transverse hermaphroditism. The detail of the anatomical peculiarities of the case has been unfortunately omitted by the author,but from the short explanations appended to the drawing, it appears that the clitoris («) and external pudenda (6) were perfectly feminine, and that the vagina, short and funnel- shaped, terminated at its superior contracted extremity in two vasa deferentia (ccc), which were carried upwards in a duplicature of peri- tonaeum (d d) resembling the broad ligament, until they joined the unrolled and lengthened epididymes (e e) of two small testicles (J[f) placed in the position of the ovaries. Near the junction of the vagina and vasa deferentia bodies resembling the male vesicular seminales * Lehrbuch der Pathol. Anat. d. Sang. Th. Bd. ii. S. 186. Fig. 294. (gg)and Cowper's glands (A A) were situated, and the urethral canal (i) opened into the vagina and was shorter than it usually is in the cow. We have found upon a free-martin cow a state of the sexual apparatus very much re- sembling that figured in the above case by Professor Gurlt. The two vasa deferentia, as they ran in the duplicature of the peritonaeum, had very much the appearance and shape of an imperfectly developed uterus. The vesiculae seminales were large ; the vasa deferentia were quite impervious throughout their whole course; and the bodies placed at their abdominal ex- tremities were large, but of so indeterminate a structure as not to enable us to pronounce them to be either true testicles or ovaries. M. Geoffroy St. Hilaire published in 1834 a very distinct case of an hermaphroditic goat which had two male testicles and epididymes with a two-horned uterus and female external parts.* M. Isidore St. Hilairef mentions a nearly analogous case in the same animal, and quotes a third from Bomare which was ob- served upon a deer.J * Nouv. Ann. du Museum d'Hist. Nat. t. ii. p. 141. t Histoiredes Anomalies, t. ii. p. 128. } Journ. de Phys. t. vi. p. 501.