776 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE HIP-JOINT. Such are the phenomena in animals in which the heart has not the faculty of taking on an augmented state of irritability, with this lessened degree of stimulus. But in those animals which do possess this faculty, a property which con- stitutes the power of hibernation, the heart con- tinues the circulation of the blood, more slowly indeed, but not less perfectly, although its arte- rial character be diminished and its stimulant property impaired. No repletion of the pul- monary veins and of the left auricle, no sense of oppression is induced, and the animal is not roused ; the respiration continues low, the tem- perature falls, and the animal can bear, for a short period, the abstraction of atmospheric air. All the phenomena of hibernation originate, then, in the susceptibility of augmented irritabi- lity. The state of sleep, which may be viewed as the first stage of hibernation, induces an im- paired degree of respiration. This would soon be attended with pain, if the irritability of the heart were not at the same time augmented, so as to carry on the circulation of a less arterial blood, and the animal would draw a deep sigh —would augment its respiration or awake. Occasional sighs are, indeed, observed in the sleep of all animals, except the hibernating. In these, the circulation goes on uninterruptedly, with a diminished respiration, by the means of an augmented irritability. There is no stagna- tion of the blood at the heart; consequently, no uneasiness; and the animal becomes more and more lethargic, as the circulation of a venous blood is more complete. This lethargy is even- tually interrupted by circumstances which break ordinary sleep, as external stimuli or the calls of appetite. It still remains for me briefly to discuss the question,—what are the hibernating animals? I must first advert to the fact, on which I have already insisted, that hibernation does not pre- sent itself in an equal degree in all the hiber- nating tribes. All animals sleep periodically, in the night or in the day. Some sleep for several days together, especially after taking food, and in the cool seasons of the year, as the hedgehog. Perhaps the bat may be the only animal which sleeps profoundly the winter through, without awaking to take food. These remarks prepare us for a more just view of hibernation and of hibernating animals than is, as I believe, usually taken. Of the hibernating animals the most unequi- vocal are the bat, the hedgehog, the marmot, the hamster, the dormouse. It has been said that the bear and beaver belong to the num- ber, but this is extremely doubtful. It has been said also that the swallow belongs to the hibernating class, but this is incorrect. The cold-blooded animals, the Chelonian, the Sau- rian, the Ophidian, and the Batrachian tribes, all, however, indubitably pass the winter in a state of apathy and lethargy. Some of the fishes also become lethargic during the cold season. The same remark applies to some of the molluscous and insect tribes. Bibmogk 4PHY. —Hunter, An.(Economy, Owen's edition, p. 131. Lond. 1837. Spallanzani, Mem. sur la Respiration, par Senebier. Genev. 1803; or Eng. translat. Edinb. 1804. De Saisxy, Re- cherchesexp. surles Anim. Hivernans.,Lyons, 1808. Mangili, Essai sur la Lethargie periodique. Milan, 1807. Edwards, sur les Agens Physiques. Paris, 1824, or Dr. Hodgkin's English transl. Prunelle, Recherches sur les phenom. et sur les causes du sommeil hivernal. Ann. du Mus. t. xviii. Berthuld, Miiller's Archiv. 1837, p. 67. Muller's Physiology, passim. (Marshall Hall.) HIP-JOINT, NORMAL ANATOMY OF (in human anatomy).—Fr. articulation ilio-femorale ; Germ. Huj't gelenk.—This joint belongs to the class of enarthrodial or ball and socket joints, being formed by the adaptation of the head of the femur to the acetabulum of the os innominatum. These bones are con- nected by a very powerful capsular ligament, which again is completely covered by strong and thick muscles, under the influence of which the various motions of the joint are performed. We propose to examine seriatim the several textures entering into the formation of this joint, and lastly to consider the motions of which it is susceptible. The bones.—Of the two bones which in the adult enter into the formation of this joint, the os innominatum contributes by the acetabulum, and the femur by its head. The acetabulum (cotyloid cavity : Germ, die Pj'anne) is the cup or socket which receives the head of the femur, and is admitted to be the deepest articular cavity in the body. Prior to the adult period of life this cavity serves as the centre of union for the three bones of which the os innominatum is formed, viz., the ilium, ischium, and pubis. These, however, do not enter equally into the acetabulum, inas- much as the ischium contributes in the pro- portion of rather more than two-fifths, the ilium of about two-fifths, whilst the pubis yields ra- ther less than one-fifth. Although the acetabulum is situated nearly in the centre of the separated os innominatum, it has a different position in relation to the entire pelvis. The union of the ossa innomi- nata at the symphysis pubis, and the comple- tion of the pelvis by the addition of the sacrum posteriorly, place the acetabular cavities on either side upon the antero-external aspect of the pelvis, so that a line drawn horizontally from the one to the other would pass through the union of the anterior with the two posterior thirds of the antero-posterior diameter of the pelvis. The aspect of each acetabulum is out- wards and very slightly forwards as well as downwards. Fach cavity is surrounded for about four- fifths of its circumference by a sharp but strong lip or margin (supercilium, acetabuli), leaving opposite the obturator foramen a notch of considerable extent Cincisura acetabuli) di- rected from without downwards, forwards, and inwards, the deepest part of which is smooth and gives passage to nerves and vessels. This notch corresponds to the junction of the pubis and ischium ; and we may here observe that the margin of the acetabulum exhibits a slight