GENERATION. 470 2. Desgvanges observed another instance in which a woman bore two girls at the interval of a hundred and sixty-eight days in the same circumstances as in the above-mentioned case.* 3. A third case is related by Fournier in which two girls were born at the interval of five months, there being lochia for a few days after the birth of the first.f 4. A fourth instance is mentioned of two children born at the interval of a hundred and nine days.J 5. Velpeau relates that a Mad. Bigaux had first a living child, and four and a half months, or a hundred and forty days afterwards, a second, also alive.§ We confess that we think these cases, if correctly reported, go far to prove the possible occasional occurrence of supeifcetation in the human species. On the supposition that two children born alive at different periods remote from one another have been conceived at the same time, three months appears to be the greatest extent to which the interval between their births could reach, the first being born prematurely at six and a half or seven months, and the second being retained in the uterus till the period of nine and a half or ten months; but this is improbable in some of the instances before us, as both children appeared equally complete, and no mere difference in the rate of their growth could account for their birth at so remote periods. We are reduced then to the necessity of ad- mitting the possibility, in very rare instances, of superfoetation ; but at the same time we may remark that the evidence regarding it is not sufficiently precise, and we are left entirely at a loss to explain what causes may give rise to this variation, and in what manner the seminal fluid may be supposed to pass through the uterus, or the new ovum to gain an entrance there. § 2. Influence exerted by parents on the qualities of their offspring in generation.— One of the most obvious and important laws of the reproductive function is that by which the specific distinction of animals is preserved. Like produces like; and for the most part an undeviating succession of generations of simi- lar structure and qualities prevents both the extinction of any species and its being blended with or lost in any other. Numerous examples will recur to the mind of every one, of striking family resemblance, which point out in how many respects children frequently inherit their qualities from their parents; but it must be held in remembrance that family or hereditary resemblance is seldom if ever complete, but * Diet, des Scien. Med. torn. liii. p. 418. % Ibid. torn. iv. p. 181. t Stark's Archiv fur die Geburtshulfe, &c. B. iv. S. 589. § Traite d'Accouchements, tom.i. p. 345, where cases are referred to by Pignot in the Bull, de !a Facult. 4e Annee, p. 123, by Wendt, Journal des Progres, torn. x. and Fahrenhorst, ibid. torn. viii. p. 161. only of that more general kind which belongs to the species. Thus in one family we re- cognise numerous, minute differences, and in fact it may be said that there are scarcely any two individuals of the same or of different family exactly alike. In respect to sex, the most obvious difference exists: the mother producing male and female; the son is not an exact copy of his father, nor the daughter of her mother, nor are they a mixture of both; but each of them bears certain resemblances to one or other or to both of the parents, into which it may be interesting to inquire,—an in- vestigation which is to be regarded of some practical importance in reference to the breed- ing of cattle and other stock. As the female parent furnishes the greater part of the substance of the egg in all animals, and in viviparous animals provides also the materials which serve for the nourishment of the young with which it is intimately con- nected during utero-gestation, it might, a priori, have been supposed that the offspring should be more subject to be influenced by the qua- lities of the mother than by those of the father; but no general fact of this kind is established, and instances need not here be adduced which shew that the offspring, whether male or fe- male, bears nearly, if not quite, as many points of resemblance to the father as to the mother. Such influence as the male parent exerts upon the qualities of the offspring must be transmitted and take effect at the period of conception only, and the impression being that of the contact of the seminal fluid with the ovum must be momentary only. A cer- tain part of the female parent's influence is dependent on the original constitution of the ovum formed in her body, while another part of that influence may be supposed to extend through the whole period of utero-gestation. We shall first consider those instances of the transmission of hereditary qualities which appear to belong to the original constitution of the male and female generative products, and subsequently make some remarks on the influence which the female has been held to exert during the whole of pregnancy. The general structure of the body, the sta- ture, form, size of the bones, disposition to the formation of muscle, deposition of fat, or the reverse, seem to depend as frequently on the female as on the male parent in the human species. In some animals the male parent more frequently determines the size and general form of the body, as among feline animals, dogs, horses, &c. The bantam cock is said to cause the common hen to lay a small egg, and the common cock causes the bantam hen to lay a larger egg than usual. An enumeration of all the points of struc- ture which constitute family resemblance would detain us too long, and is unnecessary as they are familiar to every one. It does not appear to be satisfactorily established that the family resemblance is derived more from one than from the other parent, though in one family the influence of the one parent, and in another