823 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. femur into the foramen ovale I saw in Steevens's Hospital, and my friend Dr. Osbrey has obliged me with his notes of the case, which were as follows:— Michael Murphy, at. 21, a labourer, ad- mitted June 4th, 1834, under Mr. Colles with dislocation of the head of the femur into the foramen ovale. He stands with his entire weight upon the sound side, the left thigh flexed on the pelvis, his knee bent, and toes turned out and resting on the ground, from which the heel is raised ; the thigh is abducted so that he cannot bring his knees nearer than within five inches of each other, when standing up not within nine, and at this time his toes are thirteen inches asunder; the thigh is wasted, and he cannot support any weight on the limb. When asked to walk without support he places his hand firmly on the knee, and bears his weight on the arm and leg without throwing any of it on the thigh. His pelvis is lower on the injured side, and there is a slight curvature of the spine, the convexity to the same side, in conse- quence of which there is great apparent length- ening of the limb. The real difference when measured from the symphysis pubis to the point of the inner ankle is two inches and a half, but there is little or no difference when measured from the spine of the ilium ; and when the measurement is taken from the tuber ischii the dislocated limb is two inches longer than its fellow. There is considerable deformity about the joint; a deep hollow exists immediately below the anterior spine of the ilium, through which the sartorius runs obliquely, joining a prominent ridge when the muscle is in action. The prominence of the trochanter is altogether lost, and that process can be with difficulty felt. The fold of the buttock is completely obliterated, and there is a fullness towards the upper and back part of the thigh, caused by the head of the bone, which can be felt through the adductor muscles, and seems to be situated further inwards than is usually described in this accident. He states that he received the injury five weeks ago; he was thrown down on his right side obliquely against a wall, by a horse running away with a cart, and the wheel of the cart passed over his left hip above the trochanter; lie felt great pain at the time which was chiefly referred to the inside of the knee. He was carried home and nothing was done for him for a fortnight, when he went to a hospital, where several attempts were made at reduction; all, however, failed, and after re- maining there a fortnight longer he came up to Dublin in the state above described. On the 12th of June two attempts to reduce the bone failed altogether, and the man returned to the country. Anatomical characters.—It seems probable that the head of the dislocated femur passes so much forwards and inwards from the acetabu- lum as to be in contact with the inner margin of the thyroid foramen, where this foramen is completed by the rami of the ischium and Dubes. The convexity of the great trochanter has the acetabulum behind it, and the lesser trochanter is placed immediately external and anterior to the tuberosity of the ischium. The ligamentum teres and lower part of the capsular ligament have been torn through, and the head of the bone " become situated in the interior and inner part of the thigh upon the obturator externus muscle." We have, says Sir Astley Cooper, an ex- cellent specimen of this accident in the collec- tion of St. Thomas's Hospital, which I dissected many years ago. The head of the thigh-bone was found resting on the foramen ovale, but the obturator externus muscle was completely absorbed, as well as the ligament naturally occupying the foramen now entirely filled by bone. Around the foramen ovale bony matter was deposited so as to form a deep cup, in which the head of the thigh-bone was inclosed, but in such a manner as to allow considerable motion; and the cup thus formed surrounded the neck of the thigh-bone without touching it, and so enclosed its head that it could not be removed from its new socket without breaking its edges. The inner side of this new cup was extremely smooth, not having the least ossified projection at any part to impede the motion of the head of the bone, which was only restrained by the muscles from extensive movements. The original acetabulum was half filled by- bone, so that it could not have received the ball of the thigh-bone if it had been put back into its natural situation (fig. 327). The head of the thigh-bone was very little altered, its articular Fig. 327. Luxation into the foramen ovale. * From Sir A. Cooper, pi. ii.