529 ORGAN OF HEARING. phalanx.* The remaining tendons of the index and little fingers are implanted into the pha- langes of those fingers with those of the common extensor: those nf the thumb are inserted separately. Having no sheaths, these tendons are firmly attached by means of a membranous expansion to the bones to prevent them slipping aside, nor have they here any synovial membranes, and are therefore in con- tact with those of the joints; but as they pass through the sheaths in the posterior annular ligament, they are all provided with synovial sacs. The largest is that of the extensor com- munis and indicator; they are less complex than those of the palmar region, and their inflammation less formidable and not so pain- ful. The occurrence of ganglia is here very frequent. They sometimes attain a large size and produce considerable inconvenience. The puncture of them is not so dangerous here as in the palmar region. 6. Arteries—The course of the radial over the back of the hand has been already noticed ; its metacarpal and carpal branches run across the wrist beneath the extensor tendons, unite with the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar, forming a kind of dorsal arch, from which pro- ceed the interosseous and perforating branches, Ho communicate with the deep arch; also the dorso-digital branches, one to either side of the fingers. The bones and ligaments forming the firm, light, and compact skeleton of the hand have been elsewhere described. See article Hand, BONES AND JOINTS. In the amputation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, which is easily performed at its articulation with the trapezium, the edge of the knife should be kept close to the ulnar edge of the bone, in order, if possible, to avoid wound- ing the radial artery as it traverses the inter- osseous space. The metacarpal bone of the little finger may also easily be removed by an operation similar to that practised for the thumb; the articulating surfaces are nearly plane and inclined obliquely upwards and inwards. Disarticulations may also be per- formed of the other metacarpo-carpal joints; but the operations are very difficult and em- barrassing, owing to the irregularity of the articular surfaces and their close connexions with each otter, and in removing them singly a much neater and easier plan is, if their upper extremities are sufficiently sound, to saw through them in an oblique direction. In amputating at the phalangeo-metacarpal articulations the flap is, if possible, made on the palmar surface. At the first joint of the fingers two flaps are preserved by making two semilunar incisions, which extend from the head of the metacarpal bones to the termination of the commissure of the fingers, meeting be- hind and before at the joint, which is an inch above. They may all be amputated together when a single flap is made on the palmar surface terminating at the line in the skin that bounds It is not uncommon for these tendons to send a slip to the superior extremity of the first phalanx. VOL II. the commissure. In amputating at the other joints of the fingers it is necessary to recollect the marks, before alluded to when speaking of the skin, and to divide the lateral ligaments before entering the joints. ( F. T. M'Dougall.J HEARING, ORGAN OF. The ear (in the wide acceptation of the term). Organon auditHs s. auris.—Fr. Uorgane de Vouie ou Voreille. Germ. Das Gehororgan oder das Ohr.—As the apparatus of vision naturally admits of being divided into two parts, viz. the eye-ball and its appendages, so we can distinguish in the apparatus of hearing a fundamental organ, and parts accessory to the perfect performance of its function. The fundamental organ of hearing is what is commonly called the internal ear, or from the complexity of its structure, the labyrinth. The accessory organs consist of the middle ear or tympanum and external ear.* If we extend our observations to the animal series, and trace the apparatus of hearing along the descending scale, we shall find that the accessory parts gradually disappear, and that the sense of hearing comes at last to have for its organ merely a representative of the laby- rinth in the higher animals. This part even, having laid aside much of its complicated structure, presents itself under the form simply of a membraneous pouch containing a fluid, with a calcareous concretion suspended in it, on which the auditory nervous filaments are expanded. The labyrinth being in the apparatus of hear- ing exactly what the eye-ball is in that of vision, may be distinguished by the name of ear-bulb. The ear-bulb, like the eye-ball, consists of a hard external case, in the interior of which are con- tained membraneous and nervous parts and humours. The accessory parts of the apparatus of hearing have also their prototypes in the accessory organs of the apparatus of vision. The different parts of the apparatus of hear- ing are situated in the interior and on the sur- face of the temporal bone. See the description of the temporal bone in the article Cranium. I.—The ear-bulb, or fundamental organ of hearing. (Bulbe auditif, Breschet.) In man and the higher animals, the hard ex- ternal case of the ear-bulb is of bone, and is called the osseous labyrinth. The soft textures contained in its interior be;ir the name of mem- braneous labyrinth. The interior of the osseous labyrinth, which we may with Breschetf call the labyrinthic cavity, is not completely filled by the membraneous labyrinth ; the remaining space is occupied by a limpid watery fluid. 1. The osseous labyrinth (labyrinthus osseus ; Fr. Labyrinthe osseux; Germ. Das knocherne Labyrinth.)—The osseous labyrinth presents three compartments, distinguished by the names * Haighton, in Memoirs of the Medical Society of London, vol. iii. p. 7. London, 1792. + Recherches anatomiques et physiologiques sur l'organe de 1'ouie et sur I'audition, &c. chap. i. s. x. Paris, 1B36. 2 N