FACE. 220 which have been just mentioned, the develop- ment of the two jaws is unequal, the corre- spondence of their alveolar borders is lost, and mastication becomes in proportion imperfect: in mammiferous animals the unequal size of the lower jaw, by preventing suckling, is often a cause of death. The bones of the face are much more symmetrical than those of the cra- nium, and rarely present the disproportion in their lateral development which is observed in the latter. Under the head of defect or arrest of deve- lopment may be noticed, 1. the occasional ab- sence of some of the bones, as for example, the lachrymal or the vomer; 2. the existence of fissures, or non-union of the upper maxillary bones, and, as a more rare case, the separation of the two halves of the lower jaw. Fissures of the upper jaw may exist in various degrees, and may occur with or without a corresponding cleft in the soft palate and lip ; it may appear as a mere slit along the middle of the roof of the mouth, forming a narrow communication between that cavity and one side of the nose; or it may extend along the whole of the pala- tine arch, and be continuous behind with a similar division of the soft palate, without, at the same time, being accompanied with hare- lip. Sometimes the aperture is very wide, and the palatine plates of the upper maxillary and palate bones are almost entirely wanting; in this case the vomer and middle cartilage of the nose are also partially or entirely absent; and there is both hare-Hp and cleft of the soft palate, so that the mouth, both sides of the nose, and the pharynx are laid into one great cavity. When the fissure exists at the anterior part of the palate only, it almost invariably occurs at the suture which has been described between the maxillary and intermaxillary bones, so that the cleft separates the canine from the lateral incisor tooth ; when the fissure occurs on both sides of the face, the four incisor teeth are separated from the others and lodged in an alveolar border, which usually in this case projects more or less towards the lip, in which there is also commonly a single or double cleft or hare-lip. Sometimes the fissure occurs in the intermaxillary bone itself between the lateral and middle incisor teeth, and then we find a single incisor on one side and three on the op- posite : it is very rarely that the cleft exists in the median line between the two intermaxillary bones. Among the arrests of development which occur in the bones of the face may be enume- rated a fissure which occasionally extends across the lower border of the orbit, and a suture which sometimes divides the os jugum into two pieces. The union which not unfrequently takes place between the bones of the upper jaw by the obliteration of their sutures, is commonly the effect of age, and usually occurs between the bones of the nose, between the vomer and sphenoid, and between the inferior turbinated and upper maxillary bones. Wounds and frac- tures of the bones of the face readily unite. Those most subject to these injuries are such as are the most prominent, viz. those of the nose, cheek, and lower jaw ; the last is the most frequently broken. The alveolar pro- cesses and the delicate bones in the orbit and nose are also liable to injury. The bones of the face are subject, like the rest, (though not so commonly as those of the cranium,) to hy- pertrophy and atrophy. Exostosis appears most frequently on the upper jaw, in the orbit, or along the alveolar border on the outer surface of the bones; on the lower jaw it is situated usually along the alveolar border, at the angle or on the body of the bone. Inflammation of the periosteum and bones of the face occurs spontaneously or as the result of injuries or disease, and presents the usual phenomena. Abscesses also take place either within the cancellous structure of the more solid bones, or in the cavities which they contain ; when matter forms within the antrum, it may be evacuated by extracting the canine or the large molar tooth, which often projects into this ca- vity, and then piercing through the bottom of their sockets. When necrosis affects the bones of the face, its ravages are seldom repaired (as in the case of cylindrical bones) by the pro- duction of new osseous matter ; some attempts at reparation after the separation of a seques- trum have been, however, observed in the lower jaw. Caries, either simple or connected with syphilitic or strumous disease, may attack nearly all the bones of the face, but it more particularly affects the alveolar borders of the jaws and the delicate bones about the nose and palate; it is often attended with partial ne- crosis. Caries of the face may occur as the re- sult of malignant ulcerations, of lupus, or of the various forms of cancer which affect the soft parts. Both the upper and lower jaw are sub- ject to osteosarcoma, commencing either on the surface or in the interior of the bones, and ac- quiring sometimes an enormous size, so as to encroach on the orbit, nose, and mouth, and materially to impede the motions of the lower jaw. For these growths and others more sim- ple, of a fibrous or fibrocartilaginous structure, large portions (sometimes amounting to nearly the whole) of the upper or lower jaw have been removed with success. Cyst-like tumours, con- taining a serous fluid, have been found in the lower jaw. The more intractable diseases of medullary sarcoma undjungous growths of va- rious kinds also attack the bones of the face. A few cases of hydatids (the acephalo-cystus) have been met with in the upper jaw. THE MUSCLES OF THE FACE are arranged around the orifices of the eyelids, the nose, and the mouth, and may be divided into constrictors and dilators of these apertures. The nostrils, however, undergo but little vari- ation in their dimensions, being maintained permanently open by the elastic cartilages which form them. The eyelids also contain elastic cartilages, which are moulded upon the front of the globe over which they glide in obedience to the muscles which dilate or con- tract the orifice between them. The mouth, which is the most mobile of the facial aper-