REGIONS OF THE HAND. 527 deep: the former have been already noticed; the latter are the median and ulnar. The first passes under the annular ligament with the flexor tendons; it then divides into five branches, behind the superficial palmar arch. The first, or most external of these branches, supplies the short muscles of the thumb ; the second sends one or two deep branches down to the interossei, to communicate with the deep palmar branch of the ulnar nerve ; it then finishes on the outer side of the thumb; the remaining three branches soon bifurcate, and are distri- buted to the ulnar side of the thumb, to both sides of the index and middle, also to the radial side of the ring finger; giving likewise a branch to each corresponding lumbrical muscle. The ulnar nerve passes over the annular liga- ment to the internal and posterior side of its artery ; while passing over the ligament, it sends the cutaneous branch to the skin on the hypo- thenar, and then it divides into three branches : first, the deep palmar branch, which accom- panies the communicating branch of the artery, and behind the deep palmar arch unites with the branch sent from the median to supply the deep muscles; the next branch supplies the ulnar side of the little finger and its muscles ; while the remaining branches supply the col- lateral nerves not furnished by the median, to the radial side of the little, and the ulnar side of the ring fingers. All these collateral nerves accompany the corresponding arteries along the sides of the fingers, giving numerous branches in their course that terminate in the skin ; and on the last phalanx they divide into two brandies, a dorsal and palmar : the dorsal, or ungual branch, is lost in the skin, under the nail; and the palmar is expanded in the pulp of the fingers. It is remarkable that the nerves of the opposite sides of the fingers never anastomose. The muscles and tendons with which the hand is pre-eminently endowed, lastly present themselves for our consideration. In the upper part of this region, or in front of the wrist, there are scarcely any muscular fibres, except- ing a small portion of the origins of the thenar and hypothenar muscles; and sometimes the lower border of the pronator quadratus reaches as far, or a little below the imaginary line we have marked out as the superior boundary of this region. But we have no lack of tendons in this part; for we here find an assemblage of them more numerous, and more tightly packed, than in any other part of the body ; they are also invested by synovial sacs, and pass through the carpal ring, which was described in speak- ing of the annular ligament in which they are closely bound down. There are, however, some that do not pass through this ring, and they are the following :—Most externally is the tendon of the supinator longus, which terminates by being inserted into the radius at the upper boundary of this region; then the tendons of the extensores ossis metacarpi, and primi inter- nodii pollicis, running in the most external groove in the radius, which is converted into a sheath for them by a process of the posterior annular ligament. The radial artery passes under these, separating them from the joint in its passage to the back of the wrist. More internally we have the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis passing into the palm, be- hind the external reflected portion of the annu- lar ligament, in a canal destined for it in the scaphoid and trapezium ; the next tendon is that of the palmaris longus, which here begins to expand on the anterior surface of the annular ligament, to -which it is also attached; and lastly, we find the flexor carpi ulnaris tendon implanting itself into the pisiform bone. This tendon, and those of the short extensors of the thumb, form the lateral boundaries of this region, dividing it from the dorsal. All the other tendons from the front of the fore-arm pass through the carpal ring; they are nine in number :—Four of the flexor subli- nes ; four of the flexor profundus,—these are all bound up in a common synovial sheath, along with the median nerve; the remaining tendon, that of the flexor pollicis, is situated more externally, and has a distinct synovial sac. All these tendons, after emerging from under the annular ligament, diverge towards the differ- ent fingers to which they are destined. In the palm they are placed beneath the aponeurosis, and lie upon the palmar interossei and the adductor pollicis. As the muscles of the palm have already been described, (see Hand, muscles of,) we shall not notice them further than merely to observe, that the intrinsic muscles of the thumb and little finger constitute the external and in- ternal regions of the palm, which they almost solely occupy; while the middle region, or hollow of the palm, is occupied not only by the remaining intrinsic muscles, (the interossei and lumbricales,) but also contains the tendons just described, with their synovial sheaths, as well as the principal vascular and nervous trunks of the hand. Wounds are therefore more dangerous in the middle of the palm than on either the external or internal regions, which are constituted principally of muscle, having but a thin aponeurosis and no important vessels or nerves. It is also worthy of remark, that the short muscles of the thumb, especially the abductor, flexor brevis, and adductor, though they act but indirectly on the first metacarpal bone, present a serious obstacle to its dislocation forwards ; their action tending to throw its base backwards, whilst, by their bulk and tension, they repel its attempts to slip forwards. Having now examined all the soft parts on the palmar region, as nearly as possible in the order in which they would have been exposed by the dissector, we proceed to the second division of our subject, and shall consider the various layers of the dorsal region in similar order. II. The dorsal region of the hand is convex and irregular; the veins are large and promi- nent. When the hand is extended the extensor tendons stand out in strong relief, converging at the wrist; and when flexed the heads of the metacarpal bones and phalanges protrude. The other prominent external characters of this