168 EXTREMITY. tact with the articular surfaces of the vertical tibiae. In women, in consequence of the more horizontal position of the neck of the femur and the greater width of the pelvis, the ob- liquity is more manifest, and hence they are naturally more in-kneed than men, as from the greater projection of the internal condyle that surface alone would come in contact with the tibia if the position of the femur were vertical. The separation above is ef- fected by the neck of the bone, and the ad- vantage of this arrangement is to give a more favourable insertion to the muscles of rotation ; they thus acquire a lever power proportionate to the length of the neck, a fact which is abundantly manifest by comparing the relative powers of rotation in the shoulder and hip joints; in the former these motions are more extensive, because, from the peculiar form of the joint, the obstacles to extent of motion are fewer; in the latter they are effected with greater power at a less expense of muscular force. In comparing the femur of man with that of the lower mammalia, we notice the imperfect developement or the non-developement of the cervix in the latter, the head in some being placed nearly vertically over the shaft of the bone, and also the small size of the trochanters, and the magnitude of the trochanter major in some classes. The curved form of the shaft of the femur is much less in the lower mammalia than in man; in some the femur is perfectly straight, and as a consequence the linea aspera or spine is indistinctly marked. The propor- tionate length of the femur to the other bones of the inferior extremity differs also : in man it exceeds that of the tibia; in the inferior mammalia, although in most cases the strongest bone, the femur is shorter than the tibia, and shorter even than the foot, although longer than each segment of this portion of the limb. The trochlea in the inferior extremity is deeper, and the transverse dimensions of the condyles are less than in man. Patella, (rotula, knee-pan, os sesamoideum maximum, Bertin ; Fr. la rotule; Germ, die Kniesclieibe). This bone, although belonging to the class of sesamoid bones, is yet so fully developed in the adult human subject, and is so essential to the integrity of the knee-joint, that it is usual to examine its anatomical characters along with those of the other bones of the in- ferior extremity. Its developement in the tendon of the rectus femoris leads to its being classed among the sesamoid bones. The patella is of a triangular form, the apex being directed downwards and the base up- wards ; the former is connected with the tibia by the continued tendon of the rectus, under the name of ligamentum patellae; the tendon of the rectus and the tendinous expansions of the triceps extensor are inserted into the base, which expansions are likewise implanted into the margins of the bone, so that the whole circumference and anterior surface of the pa- tella are invested with tendinous fibres. The anterior surface of the patella is very slightly convex, and exhibits a fibrous ap- pearance produced by vertical and parallel fibres, with narrow fissures between, into which the fibrous expansion which invests this surface is implanted. The posterior surface is articular and adapted to the trochlea of the femur. A vertical ridge, which inclines a little outwards in its descent, divides this sur- face into two lateral portions; each of these por- tions is a concave articular facet for adaptation to the anterior part of each condyle of the femur, and consequently there is between these surfaces the same inequality which exists be- tween the condyles. In the recent condition these surfaces are covered by a soft and very elastic cartilage. Structure and developement.— The patella is entirely composed of cancellated texture, the anterior surface being covered by a thin lamella of very fibrous compact tissue already referred to. This bone is developed by a single point of ossification, which commences about the second year. The patella exists pretty generally among Mammalia, also among Birds. It is most de- veloped in the Pachydermata and the Solipeds, and also in the Monotremata; and least so in the Carnivora and Quadrumana. It is absent in Cheiroptera and Marsupiata.* Leg.—The bones that form the second segment of the inferior extremity are the Tibia and Fibula. Tibia, (shin-bone; Germ, das Schienbein.) This bone is situated between the inferior ex- tremity of the femur and the astragalus. Its length is to that of the femur as five to six. It forms the principal support of the leg, on the inside of which it is placed, and its volume is five times that of the fibula. After the femur, it is the longest bone in the body, being longer than the humerus. The upper or femoral extremity of the tibia is thicker and broader than the remaining parts of the bone, and is properly the head of the bone. Its transverse extent is much greater than its antero-posterior. Its superior surface presents two bony processes lying on the same plane, denominated condyles of the tibia. Each of these has upon its superior surface a superficial concave articular facet, oval with long axis from before backwards; to these surfaces the term condyle has been improperly applied ; but they are more correctly called the glenoid cavities of the tibia, (cavilates glenoidea, ex- terna et interna). These cavities correspond to the condyles of the femur, having the semi- lunar cartilages interposed; the outer cavity approaches more to the circular form than the internal one; it is likewise much less deep, and at its posterior part it is even convex. The internal one, on the other hand, is uniformly concave, and its antero-posterior axis greatly exceeds its transverse. These sur- faces are separated in the centre by a pyra- midal eminence whose apex appears bifurcated, the subdivisions of which are separated by a narrow rough space. This is the spine of the tibia, (acclivitas intercondyloidea) ; it corres ponds to the intercondyloid' fossa of the femur * Meckel, Anat. Compar.