INSECTA. 876 change weighed only about nineteen or twenty grains, at the expiration of eight days when it was full-grown weighed nearly one hundred and twenty grains. Most larva? immediately after changing their skins remove to fresh plants, but some, as the larva? of a beautiful moth, Episema cairuleocephala, devour their old skins almost immediately they are cast, and sometimes one another when deprived of food. But it is not merely the external covering which is thrown off during these changes ; the whole internal lining of the alimentary canal also comes away with the skin, as was formerly noticed by Swammerdam,* and repeatedly ob- served by ourselves and others. The lining of the mouth and pharynx with that of the man- dibles, is detached with the covering of the head, and that of the large intestines with the skin of the posterior part of the body, and besides these also, the lining of the tracheal tubes. The lining of the stomach itself, or that portion of the alimentary canal which extends from the termination of the oesophagus to the insertion of the so called biliary vessels, is also detached, and becomes completely disintegrated, and appears to constitute part of the meconium voided by the insect on assuming its Imago state. Herold, however, has denied that this change ever occurs in the alimentary canal, and says that in the trachea it takes place only in the larger stems. But Swammerdam states that he saw it in the larva of the rhinoceros beetle, Oryctes nasicornis, which shed both the lining of the colon, and of the delicate as well as larger branches of the trachea?,f and Bonnet} had wit- nessed a similar occurrence. Burmeister§ has also seen it, both with respect to the colon and trachea?, in some of the Libellulre, and we now add our own testimony to the fact of its occurring, not simply at the extremities of the canal, but throughout its whole extent, as we have dis- tinctly seen during the changes of the nettle-but- terfly, Vanessa urtica.\\ It is more distinctly observed when the larva is changing into the pupa state than at any other period, although we believe that it really does take place at every change of skin. Hence these changes are of the greatest importance to the larvae, which often perish during their occurrence. They are undergone by all larva? which possess the true organs of locomotion, but it has been questioned whether they are common also to the apodal larvae, more particularly those which constantly remain *in the same locality until they have changed into pupa? or nymphs. Reaumur and Huberlf state that the larva of the common hive-bee does not change its skin, but only grows larger; Swammerdam,** on the contrary, asserts that it does, and also that he * Biblia Nat. t Biblia Nat. p. 129, 134, 239, &c. $ Contemplation de la Nature, torn. ii. p. 48 § Manual of Entomology, (Trans.) 1836, p. 428. || Since these remarks were written, a paper by Mr. Ashton upon this subject has been read at a late meeting of the Entomological Society, Nov. 5, 1838, in which the statements of Swammerdam respecting these changes have been fully confirmed. i[ Kirby and Spence, Introduc. vol. iii. ** Biblia Nat. p. 163, a. has observed the same thing in the alimentary canal of the hornet.* Burmeisterf believes that it does not take place, and states positively that the larvae of Diptera do not moult. We have watched for these changes in the larvae of the wild bee, Anthophora retusa, but have been unable to observe them, although we believe they do really occur. But the universally ac- knowledged accuracy of most of Swammer- dam's observations, supported as they are in this instance by analogy, fully warrants us in con- sidering this subject as still open for enquiry. When a full-grown larva is preparing to change into the pupa state it becomes exceed- ingly restless, ceases to eat, and diminishes much in weight. Many species spin for them- selves a covering of silk, termed a coccoon, or case, in which they await their transforma- tion. Others prepare little cavities in the earth and line them with silk for the same purpose, (fig. 363), and others suspend themselves by Fig. 363. Section of the coccoon or winter nidus of Athalia centifoliee, natural size and magnified. Newport, Prize Essay. their anal prolegs to the under surface of a leaf. In each of these instances this important change takes place in the same manner. Before the larva thus prepares itself for metamorphosis its alimentary canal is completely evacuated of its contents, its body, as at the previous changes of skin, becomes dry and shrivelled, and much contracted in length, and certain enlargements at the sides of the anterior segments indicate the now rapidly developing parts of the future pupa. These changes take place in all insects in a similar manner, but have been most fre- quently watched in Lepidoptera, upon which also our own observations have been made. We have also observed the same changes in Hymenoptera. The larva of the sphinx, when it is ready to undergo its changes, penetrates the earth to the depth of a few inches, and there forms for itself a little chamber, in which it awaits its transformation. But the butterfly either fastens itself by a little rope of silk, carried across its thorax, to the under surface of some object, as a ceiling, &c, or suspends itself vertically by its prolegs, with its head directed downwards, as is the case with the common nettle butterfly, Vanessa urtica. We have watched these changes with much care in * Ibid. p. 133, a. t Transl. p. 432.