ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 815 * Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iii. p. 397. can also increase the rotation inwards already impaction of both of the fragments has taken place, then under such peculiar circumstances a firm bony consolidation of the fragments may be expected. Finally, although this is not the place to speak of the surgical treatment of such cases, we may remark that the most valuable practical information, in our mind, derivable from the discovery of facts like the foregoing, is that the lenient method of treatment, viz. by position alone, and without splints, may be eminently successful, so far as the accomplishment of a firm reunion of the fragments is concerned. II. Luxations.—Luxations of the head of the femur from the acetabulum are by no means so frequent as fractures of the bones which enter into the composition of the hip-joint. This comparative immunity from this form of accident arises from these circumstances,— that the acetabulum which lodges the head of the femur has great depth, and that the fibrous membranes which secure this bone in the coty- loid cavity have great strength, and restrain within certain limits its movements. Indepen- dently, however, of congenital luxations, and of those which are the result of disease, there are six distinct forms of dislocation of the hip- joint to be described as the result of accident alone. The dislocations of the head of the femur from accident may be classed as follows:—a. dislo- cation upwards and backwards on the dorsum ilii; b. directly backwards towards the ischiatic notch; c. downwards and inwards into the foramen ovale; d. upwards, forwards, and in- wards on the horizontal ramus of the pubes. Besides these, of late years two more unusual luxations have been described and verified by post-moitem examinations, viz. dislocation downwards towards the tuberosity of the ischium, and dislocation upwards between the anterior inferior spine of the ilium and the ilio- pubal eminence. a. Dislocation of the head of the t femur upwards and backwards on the dorsum, of the ilium.—When the head of the thigh-bone is thrown on the dorsum ilii, the limb on the luxated side is from one to two inches shorter than the other; the thigh is slightly flexed, or a little advanced upon the other, and carried into a slate of abduction, and of marked rotation inwards. The. patella and inner side of the dislocated limb look directly inwards, and the great toe corresponds to the tarsus of the opposite foot. The great trochanter, carried forwards and upwards, approaches the crest of the ilium and its anterior and superior spine, and forms there a very well marked tumour; the nates raised up by the head of the femur is very salient towards its superior and posterior part. If we make attempts to bring the limb backwards into a state of extension or abduc- tion or of rotation outwards, we find we give much pain to the patient, and that we cannot move the bone in any of these directions. We can, without causing suffering to the patient, augment a little the flexion towards the abdo- men, and adduct the dislocated thigh, and we existing, or, to use the words of Sir A. Cooper, " when the leg is attempted to be separated from the other it cannot be accomplished, as the limb is firmly fixed in its new situation, so far as regards its motion outwards. The thigh can be slightly bent across the other and towards the abdomen, but extension of the thigh and rotation outwards are impossible." Rotation inwards, on the contrary, is to a great extent permitted, so much so indeed that we have seen the back part of the heel turned forwards, while the toes pointed backwards. During these extreme motions of rotation inwards, if the hand be pressed on the dorsum of the ilium deeply, the head of the femur will be perceived to roll on the ilium, and its tro- chanter major also can at this time be felt to be nearer than natural to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium ; the trochanter is less prominent than that on the opposite side, for the neck of the bone and the trochanter are resting in the line of the surface of the dorsum ilii. Upon a comparison of the two hips, the roundness of the dislocated side will be found to have disappeared. A surgeon, then, called to a severe and recent injury of the hip-joint, looks for a difference in length, change of posi- tion inwards, diminution of motion, and de- creased projection of the trochanter. The explanation of the manner in which the dislocation of the head of the femur upwards and backwards on the dorsum ilii takes place has been the subject of some difference of sen- timent. The late Mr.Todd has, in ouropinion, given some judicious observations on this sub- ject ;* he says, " the elementary work on luxa- tions most generally read and referred to in this country, is Dr. Farrell's translation of Boyer's Lectures, arranged by Richerand. The following is the description therein given of the manner in which the luxation of the femur, at present under consideration, is produced. " When by a fall from a place, more or less elevated, on the soles of the feet, or on the knees, the thigh is pushed forwards and inwards, the head of the femur, forced to- wards the superior and external part of the acetabulum, breaks the internal and orbicular ligaments, escapes through the laceration in the latter, and ascends on the external face of the os ilium ; but as the part of the os ilium immediately above and at the external side of the cavity is very convex, the head of the femur soon abandons its first position, and slides backwards and upwards into the ex- ternal fossa of the os ilium, following the in- clination of the plane towards the fossa, and obeying the action of the glutsei muscles, which draw it in this direction. The head of the femur, in ascending thus on the ex- ternal face of the os ilium, pushes upwards the glutaeus minimus, which forms a sort of cap for it, and the glutaeus maximus and me- dius are relaxed by the approximation of the points into which they are inserted. The pyri- formis is nearly in its natural state; the gemini, obturatores, and quadratus femoris are a little