ANIMAL HEAT. 678 unless suitably treated, dies in the cold stage of the second or third paroxysm; sometimes he will even perish in the first. It is easy to produce at will the essential symptoms of these affections even in their most formidable shapes, in animals in a state of health. All the young birds, for example, belonging to the group of those which at their birth have the weaker calorific powers, can be made to exhibit the phenomena in question. If, at the period of their exclusion or shortly after this, they be taken out of the nest, we have seen that they lose heat rapidly even in the summer season; and we perceive that any reaction of which they are capable by the acceleration of their respiratory and circulatory motions avails them nothing; their tempera- ture sinks in spite of this, till all reaction ceases by the increasing and now benumbing influence of the cold, so that they speedily perish. In these two extreme cases of dimin- ished production of heat, there is similarity in the symptoms which ensue, with this difference, that in the algid intermittent there is lesion or a morbid state of the calorific faculty; whilst in the other case the scanty production of heat is a normal condition in relation with the age of the subject. In the first, the constitution is seriously altered ; it must be restored or other- wise the individual dies; in the second, there is no alteration of any kind; the individual only requires to be placed in circumstances favourable to the normal manifestation of the function to be restored. In the one the lesion is so great that there is no resource in nature abandoned to her own efforts; art must interfere. In the other, nature provides against the scanty production of caloric in giving to parents the instinct to warm their young by the heat of their own bodies, &c. We have seen that cold, when not of too great intensity, tended to strengthen the body by increasing the faculty of producing heat; and farther, that with the progressive rise of the temperature in spring and summer the energy of this faculty diminished. This is what takes place with regard to those constitu- tions that are in the most favourable relation with the climate. Let us now examine the nature of those constitutions that do not adapt themselves thoroughly to the changes of the seasons, and see what the consequences are with regard to them. Let us begin with the rela- tion of these to the cold season of the year. It might be presumed a priori that those con- stitutions that have a very limited capacity of engendering heat will not accommodate them- selves well to the cold of winter. Their limited powers of producing heat will not ena- ble them to repair the continually increasing loss of it arising from the depression of the external temperature. They consequently suffer in a greater or less degree from cold, perhaps not to any great extent in the first instance, as we shall have occasion to explain by-and- by, but still in some measure; and there are certain degrees of uneasiness and inconvenience that may be regarded as being still within the limits of health. There is even a certain, and that a pretty wide latitude in which the body may vary without trespassing on the line of disease. The uneasiness may only be ex- perienced from time to time, and not even be always very manifestly referable to its proper cause. In other words the sensation may be something quite different from that ordinarily induced by cold; just as it sometimes happens that among weak constitutions the necessity of taking food is not always proclaimed by the feeling of hunger, but occasionally by some other distressing or painful sensation, with re- gard to the true nature of which experience alone can enlighten us. In such a low state of the calorific power, the faculty seems to lose strength still further, owing to the simple per- sistence of the same degree of cold, and still more from the ulterior depression of the tem- perature, in the manner we have seen when speaking of hybernating animals. This dimi- nution in the temperature of the air sometimes occasions among weakly subjects morbid re- action, the principal features of which have already been explained. From all that pre- cedes, the constitutions that will be the most apt to suffer from exposure to cold will be those of the earliest times of life observed in man and the warm blooded tribes generally, since it is at this epoch that they produce the least heat; and as a corollary from this, we should infer that the mortality in early life ought to be greater during the winter season in this and other countries similarly circumstanced. It became a matter of peculiar interest to verify this inference from the experiments and reasonings of which we have just rendered an account. Messrs. Villerme and Milne Edwards accordingly undertook the necessary inquiries, entering upon extensive statistical researches with reference to the mortality of children in the different seasons of the year in France, and found that the mortality of infants from their birth to the age of three months was generally the greatest in those departments of which the winters were the most severe. For a similar reason, the natives of very warm climates who visit countries whose winters are excessively cold, run great risks of not being able to pro- duce heat enough to compensate the loss they sustain from exposure to the low atmospheric changes, and thus of becoming obnoxious to disease and death in consequence. Those that have elasticity enough of c6nstitution to meet this unwonted demand upon their calorific powers, experience an increase in the energy of the functions upon which the production of heat depends, by which they are brought into har- mony with the climate. Others who are less robustly constituted complain loudly of the cold, languish, and finally perish if they do not find means of escaping from the destructive tendency of the cold. What happens, in as far as these different con- stitutions are concerned, when the change of season is the opposite of that we have just dis- cussed ? when the progress is from the colder to the hotter period of the year ? The constitu-