859 INSECTA. Diptera (contin.) homaloptera. Aphaniptera. Anthracidae Acroceridae Stratiomydae Xylophagidae Syrphidae Stomoxydae Conopidae CEstndae Gad-flies. Muscidae Huuse-Jiies, fyc. S Hippoboscida: fig. 350 Forest-flies. \ Nycteribidse Pulicidae Fleas. After a. Hem/ptera. Terrestria 1. _Aquatica 2. Homoptera. % Pediculids, Lice. \ Nirmidse Jig. 351 Bird-lice. ,-Cimicidae Bugs. Pentatomidae Coreidae Reduviidae Masked bugs. Acanthiidas ^-Hydrometridas Skip-jacks. Nepidae fig. 352 Water-scorpions. Notonectidae Water-boatmen. /-Cicadiidae fig. 353 Tree-hoppers. I Cercopidae J Psyllidae ] Thripidae I Aphidae Plant-lice. ^-Coccidae Class Insecta, (Insects.) Animal Invertebrated, hexapodous, under- goes metamorphoses. Body in general winged, and composed of seg- ments divided into three distinct regions. Skeleton external, formed of the dermal co- verings. ^nienntf two,respiration aerial, sexes distinct.' Sub-class 1. Mandibulata. Order I. COLEOPTERA. Wings four, anterior ones (elytra) hard, co- riaceous, covering the abdomen, divided by a longitudinal suture, not employed in flight; posterior ones usually jointed, with their apex acute. Metamorphosis complete. The Beetles constitute by far the most nu- merous and varied tribes in any order, and differ as much in habits and size as in general form. They include every variety of confor- mation and bulk from the minute but rapa- cious Staphylinidce, to the gigantic phytopha- gous DynastidcE and Cetoniida. So numerous are the species that, according to Burmeister,* there are 28,000 in the Berlin collection alone, while the whole that is known is supposed to exceed 36,000. In Mr. Stephens's arrange- ment they have been divided into families which amount to more than one-third of the whole class, and these families are grouped into six sections. The first section includes most of the predaceous beetles, and is divided * Manual of Entomology (Translation), p. 583. into two tribes, Adepliaga and Rhypophaga, and these are divided into four sub-tribes. The first sub-tribe, Geodephaga, includes the predaceous Ground-beetles, which are cha- racterized by the elegance of their form and alacrity of their movements. They have six projecting palpi,* their mandibles are strong, curved, and pointed, and their legs slender and formed for running, (fig. 329.) Some of Fig. 329. Carabiis monilis, ( Ground-beetle, male.) * The third pair of palpi are maxillary, and arc the analogues of what we shall hereafter describe as the Galea.