535 ORGAN OF HEARING. Fig. 235. A diagram from Breschet, intended, according to him, to give an exact idea of the disposition of the helicotrema. The walls of the vestibular scala are supposed to be removed. a a a. represent the osseous and middle zone of the spiral lamina; its termination in the hamulus or hook is seen ; b b b b. this darker and narrower stripe represents the mem- braneous zone of the spiral septum ; towards the summit of the cochlea it becomes a little broader, and at its termination constitutes by itself alone the septum between the two seals at their termination ; c. the commencement of the tympanic scala ; d. the external or great margin ; e. the internal mar- gin of the turns of the cochlea ; the two margins d and e meet at o; fff the vacant space corresponding to the axis ; it terminates at o, which corresponds to the summit of the axis; x. helicotrema or hole which establishes a communica- tion between the two scalae. The section of the peripheral margin of the membraneous zone presents a triangular sur- face, the base of which is inserted on the osse- ous wall of the cochlea. This swollen margin of the membraneous zone is, according to Breschet, evidently continuous, at the origin of the spiral lamina in the base of the cochlea, with the osseous zone, a circumstance which is particularly to be remarked in very young foetuses, where all these parts are still cartila- ginous. This thickened margin of the mem- braneous zone Breschet therefore considers as analogous to the tympanic cartilage of the bird's cochlea, having exactly the same rela- tions and uses. pared to the tympanic cartilage of birds ; /. scala vestibuli; g. scala tympani; h. periosteum lining the vestibular scala, more vascular than fibrous; i. peri- osteum of the tympanic scala; j. nerve. In vascularity and richness in nerves, the spiral lamina bears a great resemblance to the iris. Like it, also, it is the partition between two chambers, containing an aque- ous humour, and communicating, like the aqueous chambers of the eye, by a single orifice. The two scala; of the cochlea have not the same length nor the same diameter. Toward the base of the cochlea the tympanic scala exceeds somewhat the vestibular; its diameter is, at the same time, also a little more considerable, as far as towards the middle of the first turn of the spire. The two scalse have then the same diameter, and preserve the equality to the commencement of the last turn. There the tympanic scala contracts, and in particular flattens considerably, and is at last confounded, through the helicotrema, with the vestibular scala, which still continues for two-thirds of a turn, and then ends in a cul-de-sac. This is also to be noted in regard to the vestibular scala of the bird's coch- lea, which indeed is very large, and proceeds considerably beyond the tym- panic scala. It ends in a large cul-de- sac called lagena. Fig. 236. Diagram of a transverse section of the two tcalee of the cochlea (from Breschet). a. a. osseous wall ; b. osseous zone compared to the vestibular cartilage of the cochlea of birds ; c. middle zone compared to the audilive lamellae; d. membraneous zone ; e. cartilaginiform swelling of the external margin of the membraneous zone, com- A section of the cochlea parallel to the direction of its axis, in order to show the disposition of the whole of its parts. Magnified. (From Breschet.) a. a. a. trunk of the cochlear nerve ; b. b. fila- ments of this nerve in the osseous zone ; c. c. c. c. nervous anastomoses in the middle zone ; d. d. d. d, membraneous zone ; e. e. e. e. swelling of the exter- nal margin of the membraneous zone; 1, 1, axis of the cochlea; 2, infundibulum; 3, 3, 3, 3, exter- nal osseous wall of the cochlea ; 4, 4, 4, 4, osseous lamina separating the turns of the spire of the cavity of the cochlea ; 5, 5, 5, 5, tympanic lamella of the osseous zone of the spiral lamina ; 6. vesti- bular lamella; 7, hamulus or hook, which ter- minates the osseous zone ; 8, helicotrema, with a bristle introduced into it.