EXTREMITY. 157 only this portion of the muscle which separates this part of the scapula from the common inte- guments, and to this superficial position is at- tributed the more frequent occurrence of frac- tures from direct violence in this than in any other portion of the bone. The angle between the cervical and axillary borders is truncated, and presents many points of great interest. We here notice an articular concavity, destined to contribute to the for- mation of the shoulder-joint, commonly known under the name of the glenoid cavity, (sinus articularis.J This cavity, which is a very superficial one, is oval; the long axis of the oval being vertical in its direction, the acute extremity of the oval is situated superiorly, and here the edge of the bone is cut and rounded off towards the posterior part, where is inserted the tendon of the biceps. The cavity is surrounded by a thick lip of bone, to which in the recent state the fibre-cartilage, called glenoid ligament, is applied. At the internal or anterior part of this border, is a notch for the passage of the tendon of the sub- scapularis muscle. The aspect of the glenoid cavity when the scapula is quiescent is outwards and slightly upwards and forwards. This cavity is connected with the rest of the bone by a thick but contracted portion denominated the neck of the scapula. The neck of the scapula is surmounted by a remarkable curved process, called the coracoid process, (xopaf, corvus.) This process, well compared to a semiflexed finger, is directed forwards and outwards, it is connected to the scapula by a thick portion, which seems to arise by two roots, one posterior, thick and rough, lying immediately in front of the notch in the cervical border, the other anterior and thin, and connected with the apex of the glenoid cavity. The concave surface of the coracoid process is directed downwards and outwards, and in the recent state projects over the upper and internal part of the shoul- der-joint: its convex surface is rough, and has inserted into it the ligaments by which the clavicle is tied to it. The coracoid process affords attachment by its internal edge to the pectoralis minor muscle; to its outer edge is affixed the ligament which, with the acromion process, completes the osseo-ligamentous arch over the shoulder-joint, and by its summit it gives insertion to the short head of the biceps and to the coraco-brachialis. It remains only to examine the surfaces of this bone. The anterior surface forms in the greatest part of its extent a shallow fossa, fossa subscapularis, which is limited above and be- hind by the superior and posterior margins of the bone, and in front by a smooth and rounded ridge, which extends from the glenoid cavity to the inferior angle. This fossa is frequently intersected in various directions by bony ridges. Cruveilhier remarks, that in a well-formed per- son, this surface ought to be exactly adapted to the thorax; but when the chest is contracted, as in phthisical patients, the scapula not par- ticipating to a proportionate extent in the con- traction, there follows such a change of re- lation that the scapula; become very prominent behind, and are in some degree detached from the ribs like wings, whence the expression scapula alata, applied to the projection of the shoulders in phthisical patients. The whole fossa has lodged in and inserted into it the subscapularis muscle, whence its name. At the superior posterior angle and the inferior one, are rough surfaces into which are inserted the superior and inferior fibres of the serratus magnus muscle. The posterior surface is remarkable for its- division into two portions by a large process which projects from it nearly horizontally back- wards and slightly upwards. This process, called the spine of the scapula, is fixed to the bone at the line of union of its superior and mid- dle thirds; it commences at the triangular surface already noticed at the termination of the superior fourth of the vertebral border of the scapula, thence it proceeds outwards, in- clining a little upwards, and just where the neck of the scapula is united with the rest of the bone, this spine ceases to be connected with the scapula, and is continued outwards in a slightly arched form, as a broad and flattened process, denominated the acromion process, (ax^o;, summus, w|ao{, humerus.) The spine presents posteriorly a thick and rough edge, which by its superior border gives attachment to the trapezius muscle, and by its inferior to the deltoid, the intervening space being covered by the aponeurotic expansion which connects the muscles last-named. The superior surface of the spine looks nearly directly upwards; it is concave, and contributes to form the fossa supra-spinata. The inferior surface, on the other hand, forming part of the fossa supra- spinata, is convex anteriorly and slightly con- cave posteriorly, and looks downwards and backwards ; on each surface we observe a large nutritious foramen. The posterior edge of the spine is quite subcutaneous, and the physician often finds it desirable to practise percussion upon it. Above the spine of the scapula is the fossa supra-spinata, which lodges the muscle of the same name, formed in front by the scapula, behind by the spine, both surfaces being slightly concave. Below the spine is the fossa supra-spinata much larger than the preceding, slightly convex, except towards its anterior part. This fossa is formed by the scapula below and the inferior surface of the spine above ; it is limited in front by a ridge which proceeds downwards and backwards, from the glenoid cavity to the inferior angle, and bounds behind a surface which gives attachment to the teres major and minor muscles. Into this ridge itself is inserted a fibrous fascia, which separates the attachment of the last-named muscles from the fossa infra-spinata and the insertion of the muscle of the same name. The two fossae, thus separated by the spine, com- municate through a channel formed on the posterior part of the neck of the scapula and bounded behind by the spine; through tin's channel pass the arterial and nervous ramifica- tions from the superior to the inferior fossa. The acromion process is evidently continu-