319 F(ETUS. Fig. 148. gone from home, shortly after the time of con- ception, and the accident to have occurred in the same way, the female might have sustained, though most unjustly, a severe injury to her reputation. Hernia.—Hernia is a very frequent occur- rence in the fcetus, especially at the umbilicus, where, in the earlier periods of fetal life, the anterior wall of the abdomen is deficient and the intestines covered by the expansion of the sheath of the cord, into which they project, in some instances considerably; of this there are several specimens in the writer's museum ; not unfrequently this natural deficiency remains up to the time of birth, and congenital umbi- lical hernia is found in the child. In the simpler forms of this affection the her- nial sac contains intestine only, but in other instances which have occurred to the writer, some of which also he has preserved, it con- tains the liver and stomach in addition to almost the whole tract of intestines: such ag- gravated forms are in general connected with other malformations, such as spina bifida, spon- taneous amputation, &c. which combinations are noticed under their respective heads in the present article. In a specimen which occurred recently in the writer's practice the liver was protruded into the sheath of the cord, but all the rest of the abdominal viscera were con- tained in the natural cavity. Inguinal hernia sometimes exists before birth, but is rare. Her- nia cerebri is noticed elsewhere. Diaphragmatic hernia, or protrusion of the intestines through the diaphragm into the ca- vity of the thorax is of rather rare occurrence, or perhaps, more properly speaking, is less frequently observed, because it presents no external physical alteration of form to attract attention. Like umbilical hernia in the fcetus, it is the result of incomplete developement, because in the earlier periods of fatal life the diaphragm does not exist, and the thoracic and abdominal cavities are one ; and as the muscle afterwards becomes developed from its circumference to- wards the centre, there occurs occasionally an arrest of formation, and in consequence an aperture is left, through which the intestines and other abdominal viscera, as they increase in size, pass into the cavity of the thorax, dis- placing the heart and lungs, the latter of which organs are thereby frequently so pressed upon that their developement is prevented, and there is sometimes but a very small portion of them discoverable, especially of the one at the side where the hernia principally exists; which, in a vast majority of the cases which have been met with, has been the left, and then the heart has been pushed over to the right side, where its pulsations in children born alive have some- times given the first intimation of the existence of the lesion under consideration. In general, children so affected in utero have been either still-born, or have died very soon after birth, a consequence which it appears reasonable to suppose results from the state of the lungs. But in some instances the children have sur- vived under such circumstances. Becker saw one that lived five years; and in a case re- corded by Diemerbroeck, where the diaphragm was entirely absent, the child lived seven years, annoyed only with a frequent cough. Riviere and J. L. Petit mention instances of life much more prolonged, in the same condition. The writer has before him a beautiful speci- men of this abnormal condition, for the oppor- tunity of examining which he is indebted to Dr. E.W. Murphy, as well as for permission to have a drawing taken from the preparation in his possession. (See fig. 149.) The opening in the diaphragm in this case is at the left side, rather anterior to and to the left of that which naturally transmits the cesophagus, and appears to arise in this case from separation of the fibres of the muscle; a very large quantity of the small intestine is lodged in the left side of the thorax, from which the heart is pushed away over to the right; the right lung, which lies behind the heart, is natural in structure, but the left does not equal in size half the kernel of an almond, and does not possess the natural pulmonary structure, but appears nearly as solid as the liver. The stomach, spleen, and liver were in their natural situation. The child had also a spina bifida tumour which covered the whole of the sacrum, and deformity of cne hand, the thumb of which was attached by a small pedicle to the side of the index finger. In a case related by M. le Docteur Anthony,* which occurred in his practice, the child, which lived * See Journal Hebdomadaire. Fevrier, 1835.