GASTEROPODA. 379 Order VII. SCUTIBRANC HI A TA* (Cuv.) Syn. Cervicobranches, Blain.; Chismo- branches, Blain.; Gast. Dermobranches, Dum.; G. Trachelipodes, Lam. Fig. 176. In this order the structure of the branchiae is analogous to what has been described in the Pectinibranchiata; but the shell, which in the latter was always turbinated, in the Scutibran- chiata is a mere shield, in which the indications of a spire are very slight or totally deficient. There is never an operculum. The organs of both sexes are united in every individual, but there is no necessity for copulation, each ani- mal being self-impregnating. The species are all aquatic. 1st Sub-order, Anthophora.f 1st Farn. Haliotis, Jig. 176. 2d Sub-order, Calyptracidte,\ Lam. * Scutum, a shield. t Avfloj, a flower; <f>epai, to carry. t KaTiWTpa, a covering. 2d Fam. Capulus* 3d Sub-order, Heteropodaf Nucleobranches, Blainville. 3d Fam. Pterotrachea, Jig. 177. Order VIII. CYCLOBRANCHIATA, (Cuv.) Syn. Dermobranches, Dum.; Gast. Phylli- diens, Lam.; Gast. Chismobi-anches, Blain. In this order the branchia; are arranged under the margin of the mantle around the circumference of the body; the shell is a simple shield, either composed of one piece, which is never turbinated, or else made up of several divisions. They are all hermaphrodite and self-impregnating. 1st Sub-order, Chismobranchiata, Blain.; Cy- clobranchiata, Goldfuss. 1st Fam. Patella. 2d Sub-order, Pulyplaxiphora,\ Blain. 2d Fam. Oscabrion. Cuvier detaches the genera Vermetus, Magi- lus, and Siliquaria from the Pectinibranchiata on account of the irregular form of their shell, which is only spiral at its commencement, and is usually firmly attached to some foreign body, a circumstance which involves as a necessary consequence the hermaphrodite type of the sexual organs, so that these genera are self- impregnating. He has, therefore, arranged them in a separate order, to which he applies the name of Tubulibranckiata, Tegumentary system.—The skin which in- vests the Gasteropoda varies exceedingly in texture, not only in different species but in dif- ferent pares of the same animal; its structure being modified by a variety of circumstances connected with the habits of the creature, the presence or absence of a calcareous covering, or the mode of respiration. In the naked Gaste- ropods, especially in the terrestrial species, it is thick and rugose, serving as a protection against the vicissitudes consequent upon the changeable medium which they inhabit. In such as are aquatic the integument is proportionably thin- ner, and its surface more smooth and even; in both, however, it differs much in texture in dif- ferent parts of the body; thus in the dermo- branchiate species it becomes attenuated into a thin film, where it invests the vascular appen- dages subservient to respiration, and such por- tions as cover the organs of sense assume a transparency and delicacy adapted to the sen- sibility of the parts beneath. In those orders which are provided with shells, the integument which protects such parts of the body as are exposed when the animal partially emerges from its abode, is thick and spongy, and very different from the thin fibrous membrane which invests the mass of viscera contained within the shell. We are led by various circum- stances to presume that the skin of all the Gasteropods is in structure essentially ana- logous to that of higher animals, and in de- * Many of the CapuloiJ Gasteropods are thought by Cuvier to be dioecious. f E-ripoc, different; Ttovt, foot. t rioXuf, many; ir'Ka^, a scale; <fip«, to carry. 2 c 2