744 HERNIA. gerous, because the existence of strangulation with all its fearful sequelae may be proved, in situations and under circumstances where the influence of spasm or of muscular action is ob- viously impossible. Thus intestines have been found strangulated within the cavity of the ab- domen itself, as when a fold of intestine has passed through an accidental opening in the mesentery or the omentum, or when artificial bands or nooses have been formed by lymph, the products of former inflammation. Scarpa relates a very interesting case in which he found that the appendix vermiformis surrounded in the manner of a ring and strangulated a long loop of the ileum just before its insertion into the colon. If it be conceded that the natural openings at whicli abdominal herniae occur are composed either of tendon or of tendon and of bone, and therefore are not subject to accidental variations of size from irregular muscular action, it would seem on a prima facie view that wherever any substance had passed out it ought to be able to return, provided an equal degree of force is employed with that which originally caused the displacement. And this actually does take place, for the hernia returns spontaneously or is easily reduced as long as the original propor- tion between the size of the protruded part and that of the aperture remains unaltered. Again, as long as this relation is maintained, the cir- culation through and from the protruded viscus will continue equable and healthy, but an in- testine from its structure and its functions is extremely liable to a change of size, and when that happens, the proportion no longer exists, and the hernia begins to become incarcerated. If not relieved, the protruded viscus continues to swell, and is thus made to form an acute angle at the spot where it escaped, which tightens the ring of intestine immediately at the neck of the sac : the return of the venous blood is thus prevented; the swelling then increases until not even gas can pass through, and then strangulation is complete. In this way a number of circumstances connected with hernia can be explained. If the ring is small, a very trifling change of size in the protruded part will be sufficient to cause strangulation : hence crural hernia is more liable than inguinal, and very recent ruptures in which the ring is of its natural size than those of long standing, in whicli that aperture is probably enlarged. Persons who are formed with large rings, and thus possess an hereditary disposition to hernia, are less liable to strangulation : this may ex- plain Pott's remark that " if the hernia be of the intestinal kind merely, and the portion of the gut be small, the risk is the greater, stran- gulation being more likely to happen in this case ;" for assuredly if the ring is so small as to permit only the escape of a knuckle of intestine, a very trifling change in the latter will be suffi- cient to establish a disproportion between them. Again, if a hernia has come down, and been reduced, and kept up until the neck of the sac has been diminished in size, and if afterwards a protrusion takes place, a very trifling alteration in this latter will render it incapable of return, and explain why such her- niae are so frequently strangulated at the neck of the sac. Hence it appears that a straitness or tightness at one of the rings may be a predis- posing cause of strangulation, that is, may be a reason why one hernia should become sooner strangulated than another, but the immediate or efficient cause is a change in the condition of the viscus itself. Thus when a loop of in- testine is gangrened, and its contents have escaped totally or partially into the sac, the hernia often returns spontaneously, the parts in the immediate neighbourhood of the ring re- maining unaltered. Also if such a hernia is the subject of operation, there is no necessity for dilating the seat of the stricture : indeed Louis forbids the practice lest some essential point of adhesion should be destroyed. "Di- latation," says he, " is only recommended in order to facilitate the reduction of the strictured parts. In the gangrened intestine there is no reduction to make, and there is no longer strangulation, the opening in the intestines having removed the disproportion that had existed between the diameter of the ring and the volume which the parts had acquired; and the free passage of the excrement which the sphacelus has permitted removes every symptom that depends on the strangulation."* In like manner may be understood why omental her- niae are less liable to become strangulated, be- cause this structure is not subject to any sud- den change of shape or increase of volume : when it does occur, the progress of the disease is more slow, and the symptoms are said to be less severe. The division of herniae into the incarcerated and strangulated, or into the acute and chronic forms of strangulation, however practically valuable if it inculcates a different mode of treatment for these affections, is yet pathologi- cally incorrect if it supposes any analogy be- tween them and the acute and chronic species of inflammation. An incarcerated hernia is not strangulated ; it is really in a condition re- sembling irreducibility. I have before stated that in large and old herniae the neck of the sac generally becomes enlarged, and of course such a change of dimensions in the protruded viscera as is necessary to cause their strangulation will be proportionally less likely to occur. But hard and unwholesome and indigestible sub- stances may gain admission into some of them and lodge there, for it must be recollected that the process of digestion cannot be very favora- bly carried on in intestines thus protruded, placed in positions that will render it necessary that their contents must ascend against the in- fluence of their own gravity, and deprived of the salutary pressure exercised by the walls of the abdomen on the viscera within it. If such a lodgment is formed, it will be the cause of future accumulation, and may occasion a deter- mination of blood to the part or even inflam- mation within it, thus gradually increasing its volume and leading it to a state that must end in strangulation. Undoubtedly, if the dura- * Mem. de l'Acad. Roy. de Chir. torn. viii. p. 45.