868 INSECTA. however, has recently described one species, P. Gigus,* which is two lines in length. Order XII. APTERA. Wings none; body ovate, flattened ; head distinct from the thoracic segments, which are narrower than those of the abdomen ; mouth either haustellated or mandibulated ; metamor- phosis incomplete. This order, which is formed of the Pediculi of Linnaeus, and is based upon the entire absence of the wings and an incomplete meta- morphosis, affords a striking proof that we ought not in our arrangements to place too much dependance upon the presence or ab- sence of any one particular set of organs, or kind of metamorphosis; else, as well remarked by Burmeister, we ought to include among the Aptera the female Blatta and the common Cimex, insects which evidently belong to different orders. But it may be further ob- served that dissimilarity in the structure of one particular kind of organs is not alone sufficient to authorise the separation of genera which in other respects are closely united ; otherwise the Nirjnida (fig. 351) ought to be separated Fig. 351. Nirmus, the Bird-louse. from the Pediculida, although resembling them in every thing excepting the structure of the mouth, the very part of the animal upon which the two great divisions of insects in the present arrangement is founded. Order XIII. HEM IP TERA. Wings four, anterior ones partly leathery, partly membranaceous, decussating each other at the apex; posterior wings entirely mem- branaceous ; pro-thorax and scutellum very large; mouth rostriform, composed of elon- Fig. 352. Nepa cinerea, the Water-scorpion (Samouelle). * Fauna Boreali-Americana, 1837, p. 318. gated setaj; ocelli three; metamorphosis in- complete. This order is divided into two sections, Ter- restria and Aqucitica. The larva and pupa are active, and most species subsist upon the juices of other ani- mals. The Terrestria are distinguished chiefly by the length of the antennae, which exceeds that of the head, and by their three-jointed tarsi. The Aquatica have the antennae in general shorter than the head (which in some species (fig. 352) is sunk into the pro-thorax), the eyes are large, the rostrum short, and the tarsi with only two joints. Order XIV. HOMOPTERA. Wings four, anterior pair either entirely coriaceous or membranaceous, not decussating each other; pro-thorax very short; head large and transverse; antennae shorter than the head in most genera; abdomen in some furnished with a compound serrated ovipositor; meta- morphosis incomplete. This order is considered by many authors as only a section of the preceding. It is, how- ever, composed of several distinct families. The types of the order, the Cicudiidce (fig. 353), tree-hoppers, in possessing a serrated Fig. 353. Cicada hcematodes (female). (Samouelle). ovipositor seem to approach to the Terebrantia, while the Thripidce, which in the structure of the mouth resemble mandibulated insects, have recently been formed into a distinct order,* and have been placed by Mr. Westwood before the Neuroptera. Perhaps a closer examination of the remaining families, Aphidte and Coccidte, the plant-lice, &c, might lead to a similar removal. In the preceding remarks we have closely adhered to the arrangement proposed by Mr. Stephens, but it cannot be denied that much remains to be done before the entomologist will be able to form an arrangement so far natural as to be free from serious objections. The principal divisions of the last two orders, in possessing ocelli, in the size of the thorax, the connexion of the wings during flight (which we shall hereafter show exists in some of the Cercopiidce,) and in the serrated terebral ovi- positor, seem to be more nearly connected with the Hymenoptera than with the wingless and less perfectly developed Aphaniptera and Aptera. From the above remarks on the orders it will * Thysanoptera. Haliday, in Entom. Magazine, vol. iii. & iv.