EYE. 205 of the crystalline, it could move it only obliquely." The experiments and inferences contained in Sir E. Home's paper in the Phi- losophical Transactions for 1796, do not appear to me worthy of any attention. A pecten in an imperfect or rudimentary state appears to exist in fishes and reptiles, and has been noticed by Haller, W. Sommerring, and Dr. Knox. In the article Aves of this work Mr. Owen has also described the pecten, and to that arti- cle I refer the reader for additional information. Of the choroid gland or choroid muscle.— The eyes of fishes present several remarkable peculiarities, to be accounted for perhaps from their occasional residence in the obscurity of the deep, and at other times near the surface, exposed to the full blaze of sunshine; they must also be frequently exposed to great pres- sure at considerable depths. The sclerotic is not merely a fibrous membrane, but is strength- ened by a cartilaginous cup, and sometimes even by one composed of bone; the cornea is generally flat or presenting little of lenticular character; the crystalline lens is spherical, and so dense that its central part is a hard solid; and the choroid presents the remarkable pecu- liarity which I have now to describe. On cutting through the cartilaginous sclerotic, a fluid is found generally interposed between this and the choroid; at least it is so in the genus gadus, (cod, haddock, &c.) The external part of the choroid is formed by a most beau- tiful membrane of a brilliant silver aspect, scarcely to be distinguished from that metal when rough and recently cleaned. On tearing this membrane away, the vascular choroid is exposed, and a red horse-shoe-shaped promi- nent mass, encircling the entrance of the optic nerve, appears. This is the choroid gland or choroid muscle. The veins of the choroid, apparently commencing from the iris, ascend in tortuous inosculating branches, of enormous size compared with the dimensions of the part, and appear to terminate by entering this horse- shoe-shaped organ, but this is not their distri- bution, as it is not hollow. The area enclosed by the organ round the optic nerve does not exhibit the same extreme vascularity. On pulling away a delicate film which covers the organ, it appears composed of lamina: or plates divisible into fibres, which run transversely from within outwards, confined into a compact body by the delicate film just spoken of, and a concave depression in the structure beneath. The annexed plate, made from an accurate drawing of a careful dissection, represents the general form and vascularity remarkably well. Fig. 130. Haller, speaking of the choroid in fishes, says, " this organ is a fleshy pulp, composed of short columns densely consolidated, resembling red gelatine." Cuvier says, " its colour is com- monly a vivid red, its substance is soft and more glandular than muscular; at least fibres cannot be distinguished on it, although the bloodvessels form more deeply coloured pa- rallel lines on its surface. Its form is com- monly that of a small cylinder bent like a ring round the nerve, which ring is not, however, complete; a segment of greater or less length is always deficient. Sometimes, as in the Perca lubrax, it is composed of two pieces, one on each side of the optic nerve. In other cases it is not in a circle but an irregular curve, as in the Salmon, Tetradon mola, and Cod; but in the carps and most other fishes it approaches to to a circle. Those who suppose that the eye changes its figure according to the distance of objects, think that this muscle is destined to produce this effect by contracting the choroid ; but it appears to me that the numerous vessels passing out of it should rather lead to its being considered a gland destined to secrete some of the humours of the eye. These vessels are white, fine, very tortuous, and appear to traverse the tunicaRuyschiana; they are well seen in the Te- tradon mola and Perca labrax. In the Cod they are very large, anastomose together, and are covered by a white and opaque mucus. This gland does not exist in the cartilaginous fishes, as the Rays and Sharks, in which it approaches more to the character of the eye in the Mam- malia, as has already been observed in speak- ing of the tapetum and ciliary processes." D. W. Summering says, " Around the insertion of the nerve is seen a peculiar red, thick, soft body of a horse-shoe shape, respecting which it is doubted whether it be muscular, glandular, or merely vascular. It is undoubtedly ex- tremely vascular, and contains many large, branching, inosculating vessels, forming a proper membrane gradually becoming thin, and terminating at the iris. This vascular membrane constitutes the second or middle layer of the choroid." This description applies to the eye of the Cod. Sir E. Home, in a Croonian lecture published in the Philoso- phical Transactions for 1796, says that Mr. Hunter considered the organ in question to be muscular, and proceeds to state that " this muscle has a tendinous centre round the optic nerve, at which part it is attached to the scle- rotic coat; the muscular fibres are short, and go off from the central tendon in all directions: the shape of the muscle is nearly that of a horse-shoe; anteriorly it is attached to the choroid coat, and by means of that to the sclerotic. Its action tends evidently to bring the retina forwards; and in general the optic nerve in fishes makes a bend where it enters the eye, to admit of this motion without the nerve being stretched. In those fishes that have the sclerotic coat completely covered with bone, the whole adjustment to great dis- tances must be produced by the action of the choroid muscle; but in the others, which are by far the greater number, this effect will be