394 GASTEROPODA. cord; all the nerves which supply the skin, the muscular integument, the tentacles, the eye, and the muscles of the mouth arise from the brain, and anatomists have not hitherto detected any other source of nervous supply, although Cuvier suspected two minute bodies, which he found beneath the oesophagus appa- rently connected with the brain, to be of a ganglionic nature. The slow-moving and repent tribes of which we are now speaking have their powers of sense almost entirely limited to the perception of objects in actual contact with their bodies, and instruments adapted to touch and vision are the only organs of sense which the anato- mist has been able to distinguish. The utter want of an internal skeleton or of an external ar- ticulated crust forbids us to expect that any of them are provided with an apparatus specially calculated to appreciate sonorous undulations. Their tongue, coated as it is with horny plates, studded with spines, or absolutely corneous in texture, is obviously rather an instrument of deglutition than an organ of taste. No re- searches have hitherto detected any part of the body which could be looked upon as devoted to smell; the eye is generally a mere point, rather inferred to be such by analogy than clearly adapted to vision; and the sense of touch in fact is the only one which anatomical evidence would intimate to be perfectly deve- loped. Yet in spite of these apparent defi- ciencies, observation teaches us that many genera are not utterly deprived of the power of appre- ciating intimations from without connected with the perception of odours; it has been found by direct experiment that some of them are pe- culiarly sensible of the approach of scented bodies ; thus the snail, although at rest within the shelly covering which forms its habitation, will with great quickness perceive the proximity of scented plants which are agreeable articles of food, and promptly issue from its concealment to devour them. Some anatomists have sup- posed that it is at the entrance of the respiratory cavity that we are to look for the special seat of smell, where, as the air alternately enters and is expelled by the movements of respiration, the odorous particles with which it may be impreg- nated are rendered sensible. Others with scarcely less probability conceive that the whole surface of the body which is exposed to the at- mosphere may be endowed with a power of smelling, the quantity of nerves which are dis- tributed to the integument, and the moisture with which it is constantly lubricated, seeming to adapt it perfectly to the performance of this function, giving it all the characters of a Schneiderian membrane. It is not impossible that sounds may be perceived in a somewhat analogous manner, although no proof has yet been adduced that any of the Gasteropoda are sensible to impressions of this nature. The sense of touch is exquisitely delicate over the whole surface of the animal, but more especially so in the foot, which is extremely vascular and abundantly supplied with nerves ; yet in spite of this delicacy in the organisation of the skin which makes it so sensible of contact, it appears to have been beneficently ordered that animals so helpless and exposed to injury from every quarter, are but little sensible to pain, and that such is the case, M. Ferussac, a diligent ob- server of their economy, bears ample testimony. " I have seen," says he, " the terrestrial gaste- ropods allow their skin to be eaten by others, and in spite of large wounds thus produced, shew no sign of pain." But besides the sen- sation generally distributed over the skin, we may observe in most instances organs of variable form which seem peculiarly appropriated to touch. These are the tentacles, or horns as they are usually termed, which occupy a va- riable position upon the anterior part of the animal. The tentacles vary in number in different genera: thus in Flanorbis we find two, in the generality of cases four; in a few, as some spe- cies of (Eolis, six; and in Polycera even eight of these appendages are met with. The structure of the tentacles is by no means the same in all the individuals belonging to this class. In the aquatic species they are to a greater or less ex- tent retractile, but can in no case be entirely concealed within the body, as is usual in the terrestrial division ; they are therefore not hol- low, but composed of various strata of circular, oblique, and longitudinal muscular fibres, by means of which they are moved in every direc- tion, and applied with facility to the objects submitted to their examination. In all instances they are plentifully supplied with nerves arising immediately from the brain. Their shape is subject to great variation; they are usually simple processes from the surface of the body more or less elongated, and in some cases even filiform, as in Planorbis. In Murex (Jig. 193) each tentacle is a thick and fleshy stem, near the extremity of which a smaller one is appended. In Tritonia each tentacle is com- posed of five feathery leaflets, and is enclosed in a kind of sheath which surrounds its base. In Doris the two inferior are broad, flat, and fleshy, while the superior are thick and club- shaped. In Scyllaa they consist of broad fleshy expansions attached by thin pedicles to the anterior part of the body. In Thethys they are placed at the base of the veil which characterises the animal, but in all cases they are solid and incapable of entire retraction. In the terrestrial Gasteropoda, in which from many causes the tentacles are more exposed to injury, a much more complicated structure is needed, by which these important organs are not only moved with facility in different directions, but which allows them to be perfectly withdrawn into the interior of the body, from which posi- tion they may be made to emerge at the will of the animal: the mechanism by which this is effected will be understood by referring to Jig. 192, representing a dissection of the common snail, and exhibiting the tentacles in different states of protrusion. Each tentacle (c, d,) is here seen to be a hollow tube, the walls of which are composed of circular bands of muscle, and capable of being inverted like the finger of a glove; it is in fact, when not in use, drawn with- in itself by an extremely simple arrangement,