INSECTA. 980 probably be as well answered by an attachment to any other part. These considerations certainly lead us to hesitate to admit that they are mere ligaments. Whatever be their nature, as Muller has observed, their existence is indubitable. Besides the parts now described, there is also another which is connected with and forms part of the vascular system, but the ex- istence even of which has hitherto been almost overlooked. This is a distinct vascular canal, which is extended along the upper surface of the abdominal portion of the cerebro-spinal cord in perfect Lepidopterous insects, and which we have traced from the thorax to the termination of the cord. We have designated this structure the supra-spinal vessel. It is placed immediately above the cord, and is covered by transverse muscular fibres, which exclude it from the common abdominal cavity, and give to the whole cord, when removed from the body and examined by transmitted light, a flocculent appearance. This appearance was first noticed by Lyonet,* but the vessel between it and the cord was not detected by him. It was subsequently figured and described by us in the Sphinxrf and the whole of our recent observations^ have confirmed the opinion we then entertained of it. It is a most distinct structure in the abdomen of the Sphinx, and niay be readily seen after the abdominal cord has been carefully removed from the body with its surrounding structures and placed for some time in spirits of wine. We believe this vessel to be the chief means of returning the blood from the middle and inferior portion of the body to the posterior extremity of the dorsal vessel or heart, and that it is analogous to a structure which we have found to be a supra- spinal vessel ยง in the Scorpion and Centipede, that had previously been supposed to be a loose and easily detached portion of the nervous system, but which is now proved to belong not to the nervous but to the vascular structures. We are strongly inclined to suspect that this supra-spinal vessel in insects is connected with the anterior portion of the dorsal vessel or aorta, in a manner similar to the connexion which was shown by Mr. Lordfl to exist be- tween the corresponding structure and the heart in Myriapoda. (See Myriapoda.) We believe also that we have seen a corresponding vessel in the larva of the Sphinx, but of so delicate a struc- ture as almost always to elude detection. It will thus be seen that the blood certainly flows in distinct vessels, at least in some parts of the body in perfect insects, and that vessels exist even in the larva. But although a circulation of the blood has been seen by Carus, Wagner, and others in many perfect insects, it has been shown only in the appendages of the body, and in those chiefly in recently developed specimens, while it has been supposed to move only in in- * Recherches sur l'Anat. et lesMetam.de diffe- rentes Especes d'Insectes. Paris, 1832, p. 505, pi. lii. fig. 18. and pi. liv. fig. 2. t Phil.Trans.p. ii. 1834,p.395, pi. xiv. fig.9(a). } Medical Gazette, March 17, 1838, p. 973. ยง Id. March 17, 1838, p. 971. U Id. March 3, 1838, p. 893. tercellular spaces and not in distinct vessels. This opinion, however, is now invalidated by our discovery of a supra-spinal or great ventral vessel. A motion of the fluids has been seen by Carus in the wings of recently developed Libellulida, Ephemera lulea, and E. margi- vatu, and Chrysopa perla; among the Coleop- tera in the elytra and wings of Lanipuris italica and L. splendidula, Melolonlha solstitiulis, and Dyticus. But Carus was unable to detect it in the wings of Orthoptera, although, accord- ing to Humboldt,* Ehrenberg has seen it in a species of Mantis, and Wagner in the young of Nepa cinerea and Cimex tectularius among the Hemiptera; but it has not yet been ob- served in the Hymenoptera. Burmeister has seen it in Eristulis tenax and E. nemorum among the Diptera, and Mr. Tyrrel f in Musea domestka as well also as in Geop/iilus and Li- thobius forficatus in the Class Myriapoda. In addition to these Mr. Bowerbank has seen it in one of the Noctuida, Phlogophora metictt- losu% in the Order Lepidoptera, in which it was seen also in the rudimental wings of some pupae by Carus. Some of the most interesting observations that have yet been made upon the motions of the blood in these organs are those of Mr. Bowerbank ยง in Chrysopa perla. Mr. Bowerbank found that in the lower wing of this insect the blood passes from the base of the wing along the costal, post-costal, and externo-medial nervures, outwards to the apex of the organ, giving oft' smaller currents in its course, and that it returns along the anal or inferior nervure to the thorax. He states that the blood occupies the chief part of the cavi- ties of these nervures, in each of the largest of which is a very small trachea. From this statement it has been rather hastily concluded that the nervures of the wings are only venous trunks, or passages for the circulatory fluids, and are not formed, as hitherto supposed, chiefly by ramifications of the tracheae. He found tracheae existing in the larger of these cavities, which measured only j^th of an inch in diameter, while the cavities themselves mea- sured 3<|s of an inch; but in others the tracheae measured ,3TOth, while the cavity measured only 305th. He states also that the tracheae very rarely give off branches while passing along the main nervures, and that they lie along the canals in a tortuous direction. In consequence of these most interesting observations we have examined the wings of some dried specimens of this in- sect, and have found that there exists, as Mr. Bowerbank remarks, a very large and perfectly transparent space around the tracheae, which is more or less distinct in different specimens, but in a few instances is not observable. But we have invariably found that the tracheae not only exist throughout the whole of the ramifications of the wings, but also give off branches at every ner- vure or space along which the fluid passes. * Burmeistcr's Manual, p. 408. t Proceedings of the Royal Society, Jan. 15, 1835. % Entomological Magazine, vol. i. April, 1833, p. 243. $ Op. cit. vol. iv. Oct. 1836, p. 179, pi. xv.