HEART. 597 smaller veins, runs along the posterior surface of the left ventricle, between the obtuse margin and posterior longitudinal groove. The first of these is frequently described as the trunk of the vein, and it commences at the apex of the heart, where it anastomoses with the smaller posterior and anterior veins. It runs upwards in the anterior longitudinal groove along with the left coronary artery, gradually increasing in size as it ascends, from the junction of the other veins. When it reaches the base of the ventri- cles it changes its direction, enters the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, leaves the coronary artery, passes from left to right in the posterior part of the same groove, when it becomes considerably dilated (sinus of the co- ronary vein). It then opens into the right auricle at its lower and back part close upon the posterior edge of the septum aunculorum. Smaller posterior coronary vein (vena coro- naria cordis minor).— It commences at the apex of the heart, runs up in the posterior lon- gitudinal groove, or a little to its right side, and receives its blood principally from the right ventricle. It generally joins the sinus of the coronary vein ; at other times it enters the auri- cle separately immediately by the side of the great coronary vein, so that its aperture is also covered by the coronary valve. Smaller anterior coronary veins (vents inno- minata of Vieussens).—These are very small and variable in number, and are placed on the anterior surface of the right ventricle. One of these, larger than the others, (generally the su- perior,) sometimes receives the name of ante- rior vein of Galen. They frequently unite to form a single trunk; more generally perhaps they continue separate, pass in front of the right coronary artery as it lies in the auriculo-ventri- cular groove, and enter the right auricle at its anterior and inferior part. One of the musculi pectinati overlaps their entrance, forming a kind of valve. Vena minimis, or veins of Tltebesius, Sire minute veins, which enter the auricle at various points. It was maintained by Vieussens, The- besius, and Ruysch, that some of the coronary veins opened into the left side of the heart, thus producing a slight intermixture of the dark blood with the arterial. This has been more lately asserted by Abernethy* and has been supposed to occur more frequently in phthisical cases; the difficulty of transmitting the blood through the lungs causes their enlargement. Such injections are liable to great fallacy, from the great facility with which fine injections, or even coarse injections when forcibly pushed into the vessels, escape into the cavities of organs. Especial care is, therefore, required in conducting them. Notwithstanding that we have the authority of some of the most accurate anatomists in favour of this opinion, it is very doubtful if any of these veins open into the left side of the heart.f * Philos. Trans. 1798. t Professor Jeffray (Observations on the Heart, &c. of the Foetus, p. 2) mentions a case in which the large coronary vein opened into the left auricle. Sinus of the coronary vein.—This is always described as a dilatation of the large coronary vein, but I have found it decidedly muscular in man and in several of the Mammalia, as the dog, horse, ox, and sheep; and it presents the appearance of a muscular reservoir placed at the termination of this vein, similar to the auri- cles at the termination of the two cava;. This sinus is placed in the posterior part of the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, adheres intimately to the outer surface of the auricle, and communicates by one extremity with the auricle, and by the other with the large coronary vein. The commencement of the dilatation is generally abrupt, and the first appearance of the muscular fibres well defined. I have seen it vary from two inches to only half an inch in length. These muscular fibres are generally circular; part of them, however, are oblique. Some of them belong exclusively to the vein ; a great part appear to be connected with the muscular fibres of the auricle. This muscular sinus must serve to prevent regurgi- tation along the coronary veins. I have also generally found a distinct valve at the termina- tion of the coronary vein in the sinus. This valve resembles the valves found in the veins of the extremities. It is generally single, some- times it is double. I have also occasionally found one or more single valves in the course of the vein.* A distinct valve may also occa- sionally be seen at the termination of the pos- terior coronary vein in the sinus. Portal f mentions that he has seen the coronary valve situated in the interior of the vein a little from its mouth. Thebesius and Morgagni have ob- served valves placed in some of the smaller veins where they terminate in the larger. The valves of the coronary veins do not in general prevent the passage of injections contrary to the course of the blood along them. Lymphatics of the heart.—The lymphatics of the heart are divided into two sets—super- ficial and deep; the superficial commencing below the external serous membrane, and the deep upon the internal membrane. They fol- low the course of the coronary vessels. Some of them pass directly into the thoracic duct, and, according to Meckel, sometimes directly into the subclavian or jugular veins. Others pass into the lymphatic glands situated in front of the arch of the aorta, while others pass into the glands situated around the bifurcation of the trachea, and a few also join the lymphatic vessels of the lungs. Pericardium.—The pericardium is a fibrous Lecat (Mem. de l'Acad. des Scien. 1738, p. 62) found the coronary veins in a young child unite themselves into a single trunk and enter the left subclavian. It is probable that Soemmerring had this case in view when he states, " Rarissimc vena haec in vena subclavia dextra rinitur," (de corp. hum. fab. torn. v. p. 340, 1800 ) particularly as Haller, (Element. Phys. torn. i. p. 375, 1757), in quoting the case, has inadvertently substituted the word dextra for sinistra. * I have seen two or three pair of double valves in the course of the coronary vein in the horse and ass. These animals have no Thebesian valve. t Anatomie Medicaid, torn. iii.