FEMORAL without the intermedium of the second with the popliteal artery, the latter forming by much the more free channel of communication be- tween the two vessels, whence the circulation of the lower part of the limb may be pre- served independent of the communication be- tween the upper and lower parts of the femoral artery, as has been exemplified in the case of Sir A. Cooper given in the Medico-Chirur- gical Transactions, vol. ii.; and, lastly, a com- munication exists by which the blood may be conveyed from the arteries of the trunk into the popliteal artery and the arteries of the leg, independent of the femoral and without trans- mission through any part of its canal. Hence varieties may be expected in the con- dition of the femoral artery in cases of inter- ruption, according to the situation of the interruption, and the influence of it or other circumstances in determining the course which the circulation is to take. When the artery is obstructed above the origin of the profunda independent of aneu- rism, the origin of that vessel being free from disease, it would appear that the trunk of the femoral does not undergo any alteration in its capacity, at least from the origin of the pro- funda downward : when an interval exists between the point of interruption and the origin of that vessel, the trunk may be di- minished for so much, while again it may continue unaltered; thus in Sir A. Cooper's case* already referred to, the vessel was found reduced to about half its natural size between the origins of the epigastric and circumflex ilii arteries and that of the profunda, and from the latter it preserved its ordinary size through the remainder of its course : in Mr. Norman's casef on the other hand, it was of its natural size in the interval adverted to, but inasmuch as the origin of the profunda was obstructed in the latter case, it cannot be considered so fair an instance of the influence of the simple interruption at the part specified as the former, in which the femoral artery remained pervious after the cure of the aneurism. It is hence to be inferred, 1. that interruption of the femoral above the origin of the profunda or of the external iliac artery is not necessarily followed by obliteration of the former, unless it be of so much of the femoral as might intervene between the interruption and the origin of the profunda, where the ligature has been applied to the former: 2. that in such case the internal iliac is thenceforward the principal source from which the supply of blood to the lower extremity is to be derived; and that the profunda artery through its inosculations with the branches of the internal iliac, constitutes the chief channel through which the transmission of the blood to the trunk of the femoral and the limb takes place: 3. that the external iliac artery con- tributes, but in an inferior degree, to the sup- ply of the limb, when the interruption is in the femoral itself: 4. that the femoral artery and its branches thenceforward are to be con- * Guy's Hospital Reports, t Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xx. ARTERY. 251 sidered branches of the iliac arteries, rather of the internal than of the external, the trunk of the femoral itself being secondary to its own branches, by which the blood is transmitted into it from the iliacs. When the interruption of the femoral occurs below the origin of the profunda, the oblitera- tion of the trunk is no farther necessary than between the interruption and the origin of the profunda on the one hand, if no other branch intervene, and that of the next considerable branch upon the other. In such case the pro- funda artery becomes the main channel of the circulation through the lower extremity from its origin downward, and the femoral with its branches thenceforth are to be regarded as branches of it. But when the interruption arises from aneu- rism and the operation necessary for its cure, obliteration of the femoral, to a greater or less extent according to the case, for the most part ensues: this appears to depend upon the in- fluence, which the mode of cure of the disease exerts upon the circulation through the vessel, for the coagulation of the contents of the sac being generally produced by the interruption of the current of blood, the passage through the sac becomes obstructed, and along with it an extent of the artery upon both sides of the seat of the aneurism greater or less according to the disposition of the adjoining branches. The extent to which the obliteration of the artery has been found to proceed, has been different in different cases, but the varieties observed have been the following: 1. As re- gards that part of the vessel which is above the ligature, when the femoral artery has been tied below the origin of the profunda for po- pliteal aneurism, the vessel has been found, when the ligature has been applied to the lower part of the artery, either obliterated from the ligature to the origin of the pro- funda, as occurred in the first subject upon whom Mr. Hunter* operated for popliteal aneu- rism according to his method, or obliterated upward only as far as the origin of those mus- cular blanches of the artery, which arise below the profunda and anastomose with the articular arteries. 2. When the ligature has been ap- plied near to the origin of the piofunda, as in the operation of Scarpa, between it and the origin of the branches alluded to, the artery has been found obliterated from the point of interruption to the origin of the profunda. The condition of the artery below the seat of the ligature is equally subject to variety according to circumstances, and is still more deserving of attention than the former : it has been found in one of three states, either ob- literated throughout from the origin of the profunda down to the extremity of the popli- teal artery, as occurred in the case reported by Sir A. Cooper in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. ii., or pervious throughout from the point of application of the ligature to the seat of the aneurism, where it was * Transactions of a Society for the improve- ment of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, vol. i.