INSECTA. 911 head is found beneath the skin of the second segment, does not depend upon its having be- come confluent or united with a portion of that segment, but upon the development of those parts which already existed in it in the larva, so that the diminution which the second or pro- thoracic segment undergoes is simply an atro- phied condition, which results from the deve- lopment of the adjoining parts, and not from an actual union or coalescence with them ; since in every instance in which apart becomes confluent with an adjoining one, it loses its dis- tinctness of form and character, and does not remain free as when simply atrophied, or ar- rested in its developement. J3ut when the head of the perfect insect is smaller than that of the larva, as in the Lepidoptera, the extent of the pro-thoracic segment is not diminished, unless encroached upon from behind by the enlarge- ment of the meso-thorax. The thorax is that region of the body which immediately follows the head, and bears all the organs of locomotion in the perfect insect. It is always composed of three very distinct segments, first, the pro-thorax, which bears the first pair of legs; second, the meso- thorax, which bears the first pair of wings and second pair of legs; and third, the meta- thorax, which bears the second pair of wings and third pair of legs. Besides these seg- ments, which are analogous to the second, third, and fourth in the larva state, there is also another, the fifth segment of the larva, which enters in part into the composition of the thorax of the perfect insect, and forms its connexion with the abdominal region. We have already alluded to this in our account of the changes of the larva, (p. 877, 8,) during which we have shewn that at least one segment of the body always becomes atrophied, and very frequently almost disappears, and that this segment is the fifth. But we have not there sufficiently ex- plained that this segment belongs partly to the thoracic and to the abdominal regions, on which account we propose to designate it the tho- racico-abdominal segment, and consequently the number of segments of which the abdomen is composed will depend upon whether or not we include this in that region. For our own parts we prefer to consider it as forming a most dis- tinct part, for reasons which we shall presently explain. Now it has been shewn by M. Au- douin, in an admirable and elaborate series of investigations, that each segment of the thorax is normally composed of four sub-segments, which sub-segments or annuli are each formed of distinct parts, one upper or dorsal, one lower or pectoral, and two lateral. The four annuli thus formed are easily demonstrable on the upper surface of each thoracic segment, but are less readily detected on the pectoral or under surface, in consequence of the parts having there become confluent, in order to afford a greater degree of solidity to the skeleton ; and in consequence also of the diminished extent of the pectoral as compared with the dorsal sur- face, which, as before explained, (page 877,) is dependent upon the greater extent of change that takes place on the pectoral than on the dorsal surface during the metamorphoses of the insect. The parts capable of demonstration in each segment, according to the views of Au- douin, are, on the upper or dorsal surface, the prctscutum, scutum, scutellum, and post-scutel- lum ; on the inferior or pectoral surface a single piece, the sternum, and on the lateral two pieces, the episiernum and epimeron on each side; in addition to which there are also two evanescent pieces, which are of considerable size in some species, but scarcely distinguish- able in others. These are the paraptera, por- tions of the thorax not articulating with the sternum, but with the episiernum, anterior to each wing, and the trochantin, articulating with the epimeron and coxa of the leg, the parap- tera of the pro-thorax being, according to Audouin, absent. Hence the number of pieces he describes as forming the external thorax are ten for the pro-thorax, twelve for the meso-thorax, and a like number for the meta- thorax, making in all thirty-four pieces. These are parts capable of being demonstrated, if we regard each sternum as formed of two trans- verse pieces united, and corresponding to the episterna and epimera. But as remarked by Mr. Macleay,* each sternum at the maximum of development ought to be regarded, like the dorsal surface of each segment, as composed of four transverse sub-segments united longitu- dinally, and the sides of the same number. If then the lour portions on the dorsal surface of each segment, and the sternum on the under, be also divided in the median line, the number of pieces in the thorax will amount to seventy- two. But this number, as Mr. Macleay has well remarked, can never appear together in any insect, owing to the great extent to which some parts are developed, and the consequent atrophy of others. At the same time it must be observed, that if we adopt this, which ap- pears to be the correct theoretical mode of con- sidering the subject, the number of pieces which enter into the composition of the thorax is in reality greater than that given by M. Audouin, who has not described any parts be- longing to the pro-thorax as analogues of the paraptera of the meso- and meta-thorax, but which we think may be found in a pair of those little detached plates that exist in the articu- lating membrane between the head and pro- thorax in Coleoptera, and which have been described by Straus Durckheimf as pieces jugulaires, and conceived by him to represent the remains of two distinct segments, situated originally between the head and pro-thorax, but which have disappeared during the transforma- tions. But we are more inclined to consider them as detached portions of the pro-thorax than as remains of distinct segments, since we are totally unaware that any such disappear- ance of segments ever takes place between the head and pro-thorax; the head or first segment of every Coleopterous larva being the proper representative of the head of the perfect insect; and the second segment of the larva being in * Zoological Journ. vol. i. p. 177. f Considerations Gen. &c. p. 75.