684 HERMAPHRODITISM. opportunity of treating several of these more fully in our article on Respiration. Lavoisier, from his labours on combustion, which laid the foundation of the chemical doctrines of the age that has just elapsed, conceived the ingenious idea of explaining the phenomena of animal heat by the combustion of the carbon and hydrogen of the blood by the oxygen of the air in the process of respi- ration, and the experiments which he instituted upon this point along with the illustrious La Place appeared to confirm his idea. Still it was found impossible to give an account of the production of the whole heat engendered by animals. All that Lavoisier and La Place in- ferred was, that the heat evolved by an animal was almost entirely produced by the combus- tion which occurs in respiration. As the calo- rific power was measured in one animal, and the consumption of oxygen in another, it is evident that the inference, vitiated in its ele- ments, became much less precise than it would otherwise have been. This consideration as well as others induced M. Dulong, who is as well versed in mecha- nical philosophy as in chemistry, to take up this subject again. After numerous experi- ments, conducted with every precaution that could secure accuracy of result, he found that the heat disengaged by the fixation of the oxygen in the act of respiration was not equal to the whole of that which was produced by an animal. This inquiry (which however stood in no need of confirmation) has been con- firmed by the analogous inquiries of M. De- spretz, who arrived at the same numerical results. The hypothesis in question, there- fore, gives no solution of the problem. BIBLIOGRAPHY.—Martine, Essay on the genera- tion of Animal Heat, in Essays Med. and Philos. Lond. 1740. Huller, De generat. caloris, &c. Goett. 1741. Stevenson, Essay on the cause of Animal Heat.&c. Med. Essays and Obs. vol. 5. Mortimer, Letter concerning the Nat. Heat of Animals, Phil. Trans. 1745. Braim, De calore animalium, Nov. Comm. Petrop. t. 13. Duncan, Hypotheses of the cause of Animal Heat, Med. and Phil. Com. vol. 6. Experts. &c. Min. of Society for Philos. Ex- perts, p. 157. Martin (A.R.), Various Papers on Animal Heat in the Svenska Vetensk. Akad. Hand- lingar for the years 1764 and 1766. Hunter, Ex- perts, on the power of producing Heat, and on the Heat of Vegetables and Animals, Phil. Trans. 1775- 1778, and in Animal Economy. Crawford(D.J.M.J, De Calore Animali, Edinb. Exprts. and Obs. on Animal Heat, Phil. Trans. 1786, separately, 2d ed. 1788. Leslie, Philos. Inquiry into Animal Heat, Lond. 1778. Rigby, Essay on the Theory of the Prod, of Animal Heat, Lond. 1785. Delaroche et Berger, Mcmoire, &c. in Journ. de Physique, t. 71. Brodie, in Croonian Lecture, Phil. Trans. 1811. Davy, An Acc. of some Experts, on Animal Heat, Phil. Trans. 1814. ' Legallois, Mem. sur la chaleur animale, Ann. de Chimie, t. iv. Earle, Influence of the nervous system in regulating Heat, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vii. Chossat, Influence du Systeme Nerveux sur la Chaleur Animale, These, Paris, 1820. Dulong, De la Chaleur Animale, Journ. de Physiol, t. 3. Despretx (Rich.), Exper. sur la Chaleur Anim. Ann. de Chimie, t. 26. Home, Influence of the Nerves in prodticing Animal Heat, Phil. Trans, v. 115. Collard de Martigny,De l'Influence de la Cir- culation, &c. sur la Chaleur du Sang, Journ. Com- plem. t. xliii. Vide also Journ, Complem. t. xxvi. The general works on Physiology, particularly those of Rudolphi and Tiedemann. Czermack, On the Temperature of Reptiles, in Zeitschr. fiir Phy- sik, &c. Bd.3. Berthold, Neue versuche uber die Temperature, &c. Gotting. 1835. Transl. in Ann. d'Analomie, &c. Mai 1838. Newport, Temp, of Insects, Phil. Trans. 1837. Becquerel Breschet, Mem. surla Chaleur Animale, in Ann. des Sciences, Nat. Seconde Serie, t. 3, 4, & 9. ( W. F. Edivards.) HERMAPHRODITISM, or Hermaphro- dism;* Hermaphrodisia; androgynisme, gynan- drisme; hermaphroditisme, &c, of the French ; ermaphrodismo of the Italians; Zwitterbildung of the Germans, &c. Many different definitions of hermaphro- ditism, and almost an equal number of diffe- rent classifications of the malformations usu- ally comprehended under it, have been proposed by the various authors, ancient and modern, who have directed their attention to this sub- ject. Without stopping to discuss the merits or errors of these definitions and classifications, and without inquiring, as some have done, into the propriety of the word itself, we shall content ourselves with stating that under it, as a convenient generic term, we purpose in the present article to include an account—1st, of some varieties of malformation in which the genital organs and general sexual configura- tion of one sex approach, from imperfect or ab- normal developement, to those of the opposite ; and 2d, of other varieties of malformation, in which there actually coexist upon the body of the same individual more or fewer of the geni- tal organs and distinctive sexual characters both of the male and female. To separate from one another, by as strong a line as possible, the two distinct varieties of hermaphroditic malformation marked out in this definition, we shall divide hermaphroditic malformations, considered as a class, into the two orders of Spurious and True; the spurious comprehending such malformations of the genital organs of one sex as make these organs approximate in appearance and form to those of the opposite sexual type; and the order, again, of true hermaphroditism including under it all cases in which there is an actual mixture or blending together, upon the same individual, of more or fewer of both the male and female organs. Spurious hermaphroditism may occur either in the male or female; that is, there may, from malformation of the external sexual organ, be an appearance of hermaphroditism in persons actually of the female sex, or from a similar cause there may be an appearance of herma- phroditism in persons actually of the male sex. The differences derived from the diversity of sex in which spurious hermaphroditism occurs, and the particular varieties of malformation in each sex which may give rise to it, will serve as * From the well-known mythological fable of the union into one, of the bodies of Hermaphro. ditos (the son of Epftns, Mercury, and A^foJiri, Venus,') and the nymph Salmacis. See Ovid's Me- tamorphoses, lib. iv. lab. 8.