7-! ABNORMAL CONDITION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. returned back to its proper situation, but habi- tually remained dislocated completely forwards in front of the external condyle. The liga- ments seemed to have been so lacerated, and the joint felt so weak, that I was in constant terror lest the bone should be further luxated as formerly, and that it should again slip over the external condyle of the humerus. I could extend my arm, but not fully, and could rotate it, but could not flex it sufficiently to use my fork at dinner. In this state I remained for six years, and in the winter of 1834-5 the radius was again luxated laterally over the external condyle of the humerus by a fall from my bed. Now the difficulty experienced in bringing the bone back to the situation it had so long occu- pied in front of the external condyle, was ex- treme. I went to the hospital, and two sur- geons, assisted by six of my brother pupils, could not, with all their force, reduce the bone. The pulleys were also now used, but without suc- cess. Dr. O'Beirne and the late Dr. M'Dowel were called into consultation ; they placed me sitting on my bed, and fixing the hollow angle at the bend of the elbow against one of the bed-posts, they used great force to straighten it, in which they succeeded; that is to say, they replaced the bone, not into its original berth, but back to the new socket, which had been formed for it in front of the external con- dyle, where it had been lodged for six years previously to the last accident, and where it now remains. At this moment it presents all the characters assigned to the luxation of the radius forwards ; the rounded head of this bone is quite prominent in front of the external con- dyle of the humerus, in which situation it seems to have worked for itself a socket, and behind the head of the radius a deep depres- sion exists. The arm has a rounded appear- ance, and the fore-arm is .much wasted." This case seems to us important as proving three circumsi.ances : 1. that a partial luxation forwards of the radius can exist from relaxation or elongation of ligaments ; 2. that this partial luxation or weakness of the joint is readily convertible into the true luxation forwards; and, 3. that in the case of unreduced luxation of the radius forwards the patient is still in danger of further luxation of this bone laterally, or above the capitulum and outer condyle of the humerus. e. Luxation of the tipper extremity of' the radius backwards.—This luxation would appear to be the most frequent the upper extremity of the radius is liable to, although it cannot be considered a common accident. When, how- ever, we consider the functions of this joint and its form, we shall not be surprised to find the luxation backwards- more usual than that forwards. The articulation is less sustained posteriorly by muscular parts than in front, when the fleshy bellies of the supinators cover and support it. There is also much latitude given to the movement of pronation, and the pronators are very powerful muscles. During a forced pronation, the radius becomes very oblique, and its upper extremity has a strong- tendency to pass behind the axis of the hu- merus. The motion of supination, on the contrary, is not so frequent, the muscles to effect it are not so powerful, and the oblique and interos- seous ligaments, which afford no restraint in the motion of pronation, are, on the contrary, soon rendered tense, and oppose a forced supination, which is the movement most likely to be followed by the luxation forwards. We think, therefore, we have physiological grounds for our belief that the luxation of the radius backwards ought to be the most frequent lux- ation of the radius at the elbow-joint. When the luxation of the upper extremity of the radius backward has occurred, the patient feels at the moment a severe pain in the region of the joint. The fore-arm is flexed, and the hand remains fixed in a state of pronation. Supination cannot be effected either by the voluntary action of muscles or by force ap- plied, and each effort, tending to produce this effect, is attended with a considerable augmen- tation of pain. The hand and fingers are held in a moderate state of flexion. Finally, the superior extremity of the radius forms a mani- fest prominence behind the capitulum or small head of the humerus. When the bone is left unreduced, many of the motions of the fore-arm are rendered im- perfect, particularly supination ; but the shoul- der articulation becomes somewhat more free, and in some degree this circumstance makes up for the deficiency. Sir A. Cooper, who has not seen any example of this luxation of the radius backwards in the living subject, has given us an account of a dis- section of this injury. He informs us that in the winter of 1821 a subject was brought for dis- section into the theatre of St. Thomas's Hos- pital, in which was found this luxation, which had never been reduced. The head of the radius was thrown behind the external condyle of the humerus, and rather to the lower extre- mity of that bone. When the arm was ex- tended, the head of the radius could be seen as well as felt behind the externat condyle of the humerus. On dissecting the ligaments, the coronary ligament was found to be torn through at its fore part, and the oblique ligament had also given way. The capsular ligament was partially torn, and the head of the radius would have receded much more had. it not been supported by the fascia which extends over the muscles of the fore-arm. d. Sub-luxation of the tipper extremity of the radius, with elongation of the coronary ligament.—While Boyer denies the possibility of any partial luxation of the upper extremity of the radius, he describes very clearly an abnormal condition of the radio-humeral joint, of which we have seen many examples, and which perhaps we may call a sub-luxation. The ligaments which connect the head of the radius to the ulna, in the cases above alluded to, undergo a gradual relaxation and elonga- tion, so that whenever an unusual effort is made to produce a strong pronation of the