DIGESTION. 19 proper state for being received into the duode- num. The undulatory motion of the stomach is more especially effected by the circular fibres, while the longitudinal fibres are more effective in the progressive motion of its contents from the cardia to the pylorus. The alimentary mass is now to undergo the last of the three changes to which we referred above, its conversion from chyme into chyle. These substances are obviously different from each other in their sensible properties, but respecting the exact nature of this difference, the change which they experience, or the mode in which it is produced, we have little certain information. The fact appears to be, that as soon as the uniform pultaceous mass, which composes the chyme, enters the duodenum, it begins to separate into two parts, a white creamy substance, which constitutes the chyle, and a residuary mass, which is gradually con- verted into faces, and is propelled along the course of the intestine, in order to be finally expelled from the system* Although no point in physiology appears to be more clearly as- certained than that chyle, properly so called, is never found in the stomach, and that the duodenum is the appropriate organ for its pro- duction, yet owing partly to the inaccurate mode in which the terms have been employed, and partly to the inaccuracy of our obser- vation, some writers, even in our own times,f have spoken of chyle as being formed in the stomach, and have conceived that the only change which was effected in the duodenum was the separation of the chyle from the re- mainder of the mass.| With respect to the mode in which this change is brought about, or the agent by which it is effected, we have little to offer except con- jecture. The secretions of the liver and the pancreas are, each of them, conveyed into the duodenum, and it has been stated that the completion of the chyle takes place exactly at the part where the bile and the pancreatic juice enter into the intestines. Of this, however, we do not possess any direct evidence, and the fact, that in certain cases of disease or mal- formation, the process of chylification has gone on, nearly in its ordinary course, although the fluids in question have not been transmitted into the intestine,ยง appears to furnish a de- * Prout, ut supra, v. xiii. p. 12 et alibi. The difference between chyme and chyle, as well as the different organs in which they are elaborated, was well known to some of the older writers, although not acknowledged ; see Juncker, Conspect. Physiol, tab. 11 et25; Vanhclmont, Ortus Med. p. 167, 8, and Baglivi, Diss. 3. circa bilem. t Home, in Phil. Trans, for 1807, p. 88, 9. t On this subject the reader is referred to the following works: Boerhaave, Praelect. ยง 90 . . 5 ; Haller, ibid, in notis, Prim. Lin. ยง 635 . . 8 et alibi, and El. Phys. xviii. 4. 24, 31 et xxiv. 2. 1; Hunter, Anim. CEcon. p. 213 ; Fordyce, ut supra, passim ; Bell's Anat. v. iv. p. 65 et seq. ; Monro's (Tert.) Elera. v. i. p. 552; Richerand, El. Physiol. ยง11, 25. $ The experiments of Sir B. Brodie, in which the formation of chyle appears to have been sus- pended by tying the biliary duct, although inte- nsive objection to the hypothesis. Some phy- siologists have conceived that the duodenum itself secretes a specific fluid, analogous to that in the stomach, by which the process of chylification is effected; but we have no evi- dence of the existence of this fluid, except the supposed necessity to explain the effects that are produced. In this deficiency of direct evi- dence we appear to be reduced to the sup- position, that the conversion of chyme into chyle is effected partly by the mutual action of its constituent elements on each other, aided perhaps, in some degree, by the intervention of the bile and the pancreatic juice.* We have various analyses of chyle, which appear to have been made with sufficient accu- racy. It is a white opaque substance, re- sembling cream in its appearance and phy- sical properties. When removed from the body, it shows a tendency to concrete and undergoes a change considerably resembling the coagulation of the blood, by which it se- parates into two parts, a dense white coagulum, and a transparent colourless fluid, analogous respectively to crassamentum and to serum. The chemical properties of chyle appear very similar to those of the blood, and it also re- sembles blood in the nature of its saline con- tents; but it differs from it in containing a portion of oil as one of its essential consti- tuents, while in the blood oil is only an occa- sional, and probably a morbid ingredient.f The chemical analysis of chyle was first made by Vauquelin, who employed for this purpose the contents of the thoracic duct and large lacteals of a horse. The coagulum from the duct was observed to be of a light pink colour, while the corresponding part from the lacteals was nearly white; but it is not ascer- tained how far this difference of colour de- pended upon an accidental occurrence, or whether it is to be regarded as a uniform cir- cumstance. The jcoagulum contained a sub- stance which bore a considerable resemblance to fibrine, or perhaps more correctly possessed properties intermediate between fibrine and albumen. The liquid part of the chyle was found to be very similar to the serum of the blood, differing from it only in containing a quantity of an oily or fatty substance; like serum it exhibited marks of an uncombined alcali.J resting and important, cannot be regarded as con- clusive, until we are more minutely informed of every circumstance connected with them; Quart. Journ. v. xiv. p. 341 et seq. * Dr. Prout conceives, that the bile is the prin- cipal agent in this process ; and that when it is added to the contents of the duodenum, it separates the chyle by a kind of precipitation ; it does not, however, appear very clearly what is the exact nature of the chemical action which takes place. t Fordyce, p. 121; Young's Med. Lit. p. 516 ; Dumas, t. i. p. 379 . . 1 ; Magendie, t. ii. p. 154..8. Some late experiments appear indeed to prove that a certain quantity of an oily matter is always present in the blood ; but the proportion in the chyle is at least very much more considerable. f Ann. Chim. t. lxxxi. p. 113 et seq.; Ann. Phil, v. ii. p. 220 et seq. We have some experiments on chyle by Emmert, previous to those of Vauque- C 2