REGIONS OF THE HAND. 523 they are the chief agents, and of which the hand is the principal organ, that of touch, which may be regarded as a kind of sentinel by which we ascertain the nature of bodies ; which without seeing warns the hand from too closely embracing what may prove hurtful to itself, or admonishes it to handle gently those delicate objects that would be destroyed by too rude a grasp. In the blind this sense, by con- slant exercise, becomes so perfect as in a great measure to compensate for the loss of sight. But by the combination of these two functions the hand is indeed rendered an organ worthy of, and admirably suited to the mind of man. With the one he plans, while through the other he performs and executes all that administers to the pleasures, the comforts, and the conve- niences of life, and that establishes his superi- ority in the creation. (F. T. M'DougaU.) HAND, REGIONS OF THE. (Surgical Anatomy.) In the consideration of the surgical anatomy of the hand, we shall commence our description from an imaginary line encircling the fore-arm, at a point immediately below the insertion of the pronator quadratus, or about half an inch above the radio-carpal articulation. From this point downwards for about a finger's- breadth, the wrist is narrow and flattened like the fore-arm; from thence the hand, gradually expanding, acquires that remarkable breadth and flatness so necessary to it both as a tactile and prehensile organ ; it is broadest inferiorly where it terminates in the fingers. In front, this region is concave and hairless; posteriorly, it is convex and slightly hairy. In woman, the hand is smaller and more de- licately shaped ; it is also rounder and smoother, on account of the greater quantity of subcu- taneous adipose tissue, softening down the harsher outline of bone and tendon displayed in the brawny hand of man. In order to avoid needless prolixity, we shall not subdivide this inferior segment of the upper extremity into the three distinct regions of wrist, hand, and fingers ; which, indeed, if we were considering its bony frame-work, would natu- rally present themselves. But as the soft parts, with which we have principally to do in the present article, exhibit no such natural distinc- tions in these separate parts, and are, for the most part, common to them all, we shall con- sider them as constituting one entire region, which is naturally subdivided into palmar and dorsal regions. I. Of the palmar region of the. hand.—The remarkable points on the exterior of this region are as follows :—Commencing from the pre- supposed imaginary line, and proceeding down- wards, we perceive most externally a projection formed by the united tendons of the short ex- tensors of the thumb ; next in order, proceeding from without inwards, we notice a hollow, most visible when the hand is flexed, corresponding to the radio-carpal articulation, and in which the radial artery may be felt pulsating imme- diately before it passes under the tendons we have just noticed ; bounding this hollow, on its inside, is a second eminence, formed by the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus, and the projecting crests of the scaphoid and trapezium ; more internally a second de- pression, corresponding to the ulnar nerve and artery, bounded internally by a third eminence, that of the flexor carpi ulnans tendon and the pisiform bone, posterior to which may be felt the inferior extremity of the ulna and the inter- val between it and the bones of the carpus. Lastly, in front of the wrist, owing to the thinness of the skin in this part of the palmar region, we perceive a blue network of veins, from which the median is formed. More mferiorly, in the palm proper, we notice externally the thenar eminence, extending from the crest of the scaphoid to the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. On the inner side of the palm is the hypothenar eminence, longer and thinner, but less prominent than the last; it extends from the pisiform bone to the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Separating these prominent parts, and extending from the inner furrow of the wrist towards the root of the index finger, is a deep excavation,—the hollow of the palm ; next may be seen or felt four elevations, corresponding to the heads of the four metacarpal bones, about an inch in front of which the fingers free themselves from the skin of the palm, which is prolonged over them for that distance in a manner somewhat analogous to the web in the foot of a Newfound- land dog, or other swimming animals. Of the fingers themselves, the middle is the longest, the first and third are on a level, the little finger reaches the level of the last articulation of the annular, and the thumb terminates about three lines behind the second articulation of the index; the phalangeal articulation of the thumb being exactly on a level with the metacarpo-phalangeal union of the same finger. There are likewise certain lines or furrows caused by the folding of the skin in flexion of the hand and fingers, some of which constantly occur, and are worthy of notice, inasmuch as they sometimes serve as guides or landmarks to the surgeon in operating on this region. They are as follows: two on the wrist; the superior one, extending between the styloid processes of the radius and ulna, corresponds to the radio- carpal articulation. Another, more remarkable, slightly convex downwards, projecting between the palmar eminences, separates the wrist from the hand, and corresponds to the articula- tion between the two rows of the carpus. In the palm, one commences from the metacarpo- phalangeal articulation of the index finger, which soon bifurcates, one of its divisions bounding the thenar on its inner side; the other runs obliquely across the palm, and terminates on the upper part of the hypothenar : this in a measure corresponds to the superficial palmar arch, having the same obliquity across the palm, but being three or four lines inferior to it; these lines are caused by the opposition of the thumb. There is yet another line running from the in- terval between the index and middle fingers to