645 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HEART. maintains this opinion exclusively, and Dr. Hodgkin states his belief that in by far the greater number of eases these patches depend on a deposit on the attached surface. This writer adds—" From the circumstance of their being often found immediately under the ster- num, and from their being occasionally met with on other parts of the heart, to which a firm and resisting body has been unusually opposed ; as for example, when a bony deposit has taken place beneath the reflected pericardium, or when an uneven and remarkably indurated liver has, even through the diaphragm, presented an unequal pressure against a particular part of the heart, I have thought it probable that such pressure, aided by the movements of the heart itself, may have led to the production of these spots. These formations may certainly take place at a very early period of life. I have met with one rather loose and thick, but in other respects perfectly resembling those found in the adult, on the right ventricle of a child only ten weeks old. Similar thickening of the close pericardium sometimes marks the course of the coronary arteries and their brandies; and this circumstance amongst others tends to con- firm the idea which I entertain as to its mode of formation."* Mr. T. VV. King, in an Essay on this subject in the sixth number of Guy's Hospital Reports, records a very remarkable example of the opa- city. The patch, " a uniform whitish thicken- ing of the close pericardium," nearly equalled in extent the anterior surface of the right ven- tricle, and was extended over the anterior sur- face of the pulmonary artery as far as its bifur- cation. Two similar patches were found on the under surface of the ventricle. Mr. King inclines to the opinion that this deposit is seated in the proper tissue of the serous mem- brane, and considers it always inflammatory and pretty constantly the effect of friction and irritation. " The situation of these patches," observes Mr. King," whenever they occur, im- plies to my min d a egree of attrition at the part more than belongs to the pericardium ge- nerally. They are found on the surface of the right auricle almost as frequently as on the ven- tricle, but not in so morbid a form ; and much more divided, even minute, and often clustered like the rippling of the sand at ebb-tide. One is not unfrequently seen along the anterior face of the great pulmonary artery. All these relate to the right side of the heart, which all pathologists are aware is often, and more than the left, the subject of distensions. The patches may occasionally, perhaps, be seen on any part of the close pericardium. I have seen them behind the left pulmonary veins ; but, omitting this instance, the next most com- mon appearance of the kind is that of length- ened, narrow, winding, and even branching lines immediately over the great vessels of the ventricles whenever they are the subject of con- siderable dilatation. Here, also, we have evi- dence of a disproportionate space of attrition, resulting from undue prominence." *Lect. on Morb. iinat. of serous membranes, p. 98. I am not aware of any well-authenticated instance of ulceration or gangrene of the peri- cardium. In cases of ulcerative perforation of the heart, it may be said, however, that the pe- ricardium ulcerates as the other parts do. Tubercular formations.—Tubercles, whether cancerous, melanotic, or scrofulous, are formed subjacent to either serous layer of the pericar- dium ; sometimes, and most frequently they are deposited between the visceral layer and the heart, or they may be found between the fibrous pericardium and the parietal aspect of the se- rous layer. Cysts.—The serous cysts which are described as occurring in the heart are sometimes formed immediately subjacent to the serous membrane, and project into the pericardial sac. Accord- ing to Andral they occur most frequently in this situation. Similar cysts have been found between the fibrous pericardium and its serous lining. Hi/drops pericardii or hydropericardium.— This disease consists in an undue accumulation of fluid in the sac of the pericardium. The fluid is either simply serous, of yellowish cha- racter, or it may be of a brownish or reddish hue. In quantity it rarely exceeds two pints. The effusion is not generally attended with any evident morbid change either of the heart or its membranes, excepting that in cases of some standing, the heart seems somewhat atrophied, and the pericardium has lost its perfect trans- parency. Pneumopericardium.—The presence of air in the pericardium, as the effect of morbid action during life, must be very rare. Laennec, how- ever, speaks very confidently of its existence. " Sometimes," he says, " the air is combined with a liquid, and this is by much the most frequent case ; at other times the pericardium is distended by air alone." Could the cases of dry pericardium related by Baillie have been produced by the developementofairin its cavity ? Morbid states of the endocardium.—1. En- docarditis. The lining membrane of the heart is so similar in its structure and properties to the pericardium, that their morbid states are very similar likewise. The constant contact of the blood with the former membrane serves, however, to modify considerably the anatomical characters of disease in it. We want, I think, satisfactory proofs of the changes induced by endocarditis in its earliest stage; these changes are described to be, redness of the membrane, with a more or less thickened or swollen condi- tion of it; but the redness is not the result of capillary injection, but seems to be a stain on the membrane, the result of contact with the blood. The stain is not merely superficial, but has sunk into the substance of the tissue, and it cannot consequently be washed off. The lining membrane of the heart is often found stained of a red colour as a post-mortem result; and this is invariably the case in hearts examined after putrefaction has commenced. The blood contained in the heart has begun to alter, various gases are given out, and the inter- nal membrane more readily imbibes the colour- ing matter that is brought in contact with it.