149 EXCRETION. speculation, but that somp such general prin- ciple determines the incompatibility of the mat- ters of the excretions with the life of the struc- tures in which they are formed, can hardly be doubted. II. Although the necessity of various excre- tions is obvious, there is a difficulty, both in the case of animals and vegetables, in fixing on those products of vital action which come exclu- sively under this denomination ; and it appears certain, that some of the organs of excretion (such as the lungs) are at the same time de- stined to other purposes, particularly absorption ; and even that part of certain excreted fluids (such as the bile) is employed likewise in the work of assimilation. But it is certain that the lungs or gills, the skin, the intestines, and the kidneys, are the outlets for excreted matters in all vertebrated animals. 1. There can be no doubt that the watery vapour and carbonic acid which are exhaled from the lungs, are strictly excretions, although it is still doubted by some physiologists, whe- ther the latter substance is truly exhaled, or rather formed at the lungs; on the latter sup- position we should say, that the excretions of the lungs are water and carbon. It appears certain, from some experiments of Dr. Gordon, that no animal or saline matter escapes by this outlet. The total amount of loss by this excretion in twenty-four hours, in a middle-sized man, has been stated by Lavoisier and Seguin as aver- aging about fifteen ounces; and it must be re- membered, that as we have good evidence of very considerable absorption at the lungs, the whole quantity of matter excreted must consi- derably exceed this weight. Indeed, Mr. Dal- ton estimates the exhalation of watery vapour only from the lungs at twenty-four ounces in the day. Some have estimated the quantity of carbon alone escaping in this way in the day at eleven ounces; but this estimate is probably exaggerated. It seems to be ascertained by the experiments of Dr. Edwards, of Despretz, and Collard de Martigny, that there is at times an obvious exhalation of azote by the lungs; and Dr. Edwards expresses an opinion that there is probably, at all times, both an exhalation and absorption of that gas, but that these processes in general nearly compensate one another. According to Dr. Prout's views, re- cently, though briefly, announced, we may, per- haps, state the source and cause of the forma- tion of the carbonic acid, and assign the use of the excretion of the water, which escapes by the lungs, with more precision. He supposes the acid to be evolved in the course of the circula- tion, by that " process of reduction," by which the gelatin of the animal textures is formed from the albumen of the blood; and the water to be given off chiefly /rom the weak albuminous matters of the chyle, and to be an essential part of the " process of completion," by which this is converted into the strong albumen of the blood? 2. The excretion by the skin is chiefly See IJridgewater Treatise, p. 524. watery vapour; the escape of carbon, or carbonic acid, by this outlet appears to be to a very small amount, and to be very variable. In the sen- sible perspiration or sweat there is an excess of lactic acid, a small quantity of the same animal and saline matters as are contained in the serum of the blood, and a little oily or fatty matter, probably from the sebaceous glands; the whole loss by this excretion in the human adult has been stated as averaging about thirty ounces in the day, but is evidently liable to very great variety. Many experiments prove that there is much less compensating absorption by this tex- ture than by the lungs. 3. The excretions by the bowels are, properly speaking, only those parts of the alvine evacua- tions, which are secreted within the body itself, and mixed with the residue of the food. It is probable that part of the secretions from all parts of the prima viae are thus excreted, but the only one of which it has been ascertained that it is, in part at least, destined necessarily for excretion, is the bile. It is certain that the peculiar animal matter of this secretion, (re- garded by some as of pretty simple and by others as of very complicated composition) is never found in the healthy state in the lacteal vessels or thoracic duct—that it is found in full quantity along with the residue of the aliments in the lower intestines,—that it is increased in quantity when the excretion of urine is sup- pressed in animals by extirpation of the kid- neys ; and again, that when this secretion is sup- pressed, the urine is increased and altered ; and we can therefore have no difficulty about regard- ing this part of the bile as strictly an excretion, notwithstanding that we have good evidence, that at least the alkali of the bile is of use in the digestion and assimilation of the food. Of the quantity of matter strictly excreted from the intestines in the day it must of course be very difficult to judge. The chemical elements that escape in the biliary matter must be chiefly carbon and hydrogen. 4. The urine is the most complex of the ex- cretions, particularly as to saline impregnation, containing not only the salts which are detected in the blood, but a portion of every earthy and saline matter that can be found in any part of the body, besides the peculiar and highly azo- tised animal matters, lithic acid and urea. The average quantity of urine passed in twenty-four hours may be about forty ounces, but is very liable to variation, particularly by temperature, being generally greater, as the excretion by the skin is less. The quantity of solid matter, animal, earthy, and saline, that passes off in this way has been stated at about fifteen drachms on an average, and is evidently much less liable to change, the density of urine, in the healthy state, always diminishing as its quantity increases, and vice versa. The milk, and the semen, although destined to no useful office in the system in which they are formed, are rather to be called recrementilious secretions than excretions. Yet the former has this property in common with excretions, that its retention within the body, when the conditions of its formation exist, i^