ENTOZOA. 123 bronchialis (jig. 68); it was detected by Treut- ler* in the enlarged Fig. 68. bronchial glands of a n man: the length of this JST. worm is about an inch ; l/f it is slender, subatten- 11 uated anteriorly (a), II and emitting the male j j spiculum from an in- II curved obtuse anal ex- \\ tremity (6). w. The next Human \% Entozoon of the Ne- matoid order belongs \|i to the genus Tricho- ]l cephalus, which, like J a Filaria, is character- li ized by an orbicular M mouth, but differs from it in the capillary form ^ of the anterior part of Filaria bronchialis, »he h°p> anf in. the magnified. i°rm of the sheath or preputial covering of the male spiculum. The species in question, the Tricocephalus dispar, Rud. is of small size, and the male (* fig. 69) is rather less than the female. It occurs most commonly in the coecum and colon, more rarely in the small intestines. Occasionally it is found loose in the abdominal cavity, having perforated the coats of the intestine. The capillary portion of this species makes about two-thirds of its entire length ; it is transversely striated, and contains a simple straight intestinal canal; the head (a) is acute, with a small simple terminal mouth. The thick part of the body is spirally convoluted on the same plane, and exhibits more plainly the dilated moniliform intestine (6); it terminates in an obtuse anal extremity, from the inner side of which pro- ject the intromittent spiculum and its sheath (c, d). The corresponding extremity in the female exhibits a simple foramen, which, like the outlet of a cloaca, serves the office of both anus and vulva. With respect to the following parasite of the Human body, the Spiroptera Hominis, Rud., considerable obscurity prevails. A poor wo- man, who is still living in the workhouse of the parish of St. Sepulchre, London, has been subject, since the year 1806, (when she was twenty-four years old,) up to the present time, to retention of urine, accompanied with dis- tress and pain indicative of disease of the bladder. The catheter has been employed from time to time during this long period to draw off the urine, and its application has been, and continues occasionally to be, followed by the extraction and subsequent discharge of worms, or vermiform substances, with nume- rous small granular bodies. The latter are of uniform size, resembling small grains of sand : those which we have examined, and which were preserved in spirit, present a subglobular, or irregularly flattened form; but when recently * Opusc. Patholog. Anat. p. 10, tab. ii. fig. 3— 7. Hamularia Lymphaiica. Fig 69. Trichocepludus dispar. (*Natural she.) expelled, I am assured by my friend Dr. Arthur Farre, that they are perfectly spherical; they consist of an external smooth, firm, dia- phanous coat, including a compact mass of brown and minutely granular substance. The inner surface of the containing capsule pre- sents, under the microscope, a regular, beau- tiful, and minute reticulation, produced by depressions or cells of a hexagonal form. These, therefore, we regard as ova, and not as fortuitous morbid productions.* The vermi- * " Ovula vero sic dicta subglobosa cum arenulis