328 FCETUS. diate observation, as shewn in the annexed figure, 158. Fig. 158. I am very much disposed to believe that Morgagni witnessed a fact of this kind; at least his description of the appearance in a monstrous foetus between the fifth and sixth month, greatly resembles it, of which he says, " All the limbs were in a very bad state, the upper limbs from the elbows downwards; for to the arms, which were very short and distorted, distorted hands were likewise added. And the inferior limbs terminated, likewise, in distorted feet, but the left leg was either broken from the funiculus umbilicalis having been ap- plied round it, or was more distorted than the other parts:"* and he afterwards, with great reason, conjectures that the binding of the cord round the leg may have been the cause of the child's death, by interrupting the circulation through it. It is a very ex- traordinary fact, that in every one of these cases, as well as in several others, the injury was sustained by the left extremity.+ In the course of the last year Dr. Simpson of Edinburgh published an excellent paper on this subject;! into which he has collected a vast quantity of curious information and many most important cases from authors, to which * Epistle xlviii. art. 53, vol. ii. p. 758, of Alexander's translation. f For other instances of impressions made on the foetal limbs, &c. see Van de Laar, Obs. Obstet. Med. p. 41, and tab. 11 ; Meckel, Patholog. Anat. Bd. ii. s. 137; Sandifort, Thesaurus, torn. iii. p. 235, tab. 11, fig. 5. % See Dublin Medical Journal for November, 1836, vol. x. p. 220. he has added not a few from his own obser- vation, together with several highly apposite remarks; and I am happy to find that he also assents to, and, indeed, strongly confirms my view both as to the agent which produces the change and its consisting of organized lymph, such as is usually elaborated under the influence of inflammatory action, from which it is well known that several varieties of foetal deformities arise; * and it is a matter of every day ob- servation how completely lymph so effused will be converted into distinct firm threads, uniting opposite serous surfaces, especially those which move freely on each other, as the pleurae and the peritoneal coverings of the ab- dominal viscera.f From the cases referred to by Dr. Simpson, I shall now notice three which appear more particularly illustrative of the true nature of this remarkable lesion, and confirmatory of my original account of it. Zagorsky has described \ a malformed foetus of the fifth month, which, in addition to several other deformities, was deficient of the right leg, the thigh ending in a rounded and cicatrized stump, in the centre of which was a small projecting point: from this was prolonged a slender thread-like membrane, strong in pro- portion to its size, that ran directly across to the left leg, which it encircled, a little above the ankle, like a tightened ligature, see fig. 159, and formed in it a depression of considerable depth, while the portion of the extremity below the ligature was, as well as the appended foot, rather tumefied. From about the middle of the transverse thread-like membrane a small body of an oblong form was suspended, which, on examination, proved to be the right foot perfectly formed, as its general outline and five toes demonstrated, but not larger in size than the foot of a foetus of the tenth or twelfth week. Beclard mentions ยง the case of a very de- formed hydrocephalic foetus, whose left leg was divided by a transverse depression that pene- trated as deep as the bones, and resembled that which would have been produced by a tight ligature. The two opposite surfaces of this indentation were both cicatrized, and almost touching one another. " It is evident," says Beclard, " that if this foetus had remained in utero for some time longer, it would have been born with an amputated and cicatrized leg, the remains of which might have been found in the liquor amnii." * See Geoffroy St. Hilaire's investigations in his work on " Monstruosites Humaines;" Meckel's Handbuch der Pathologischen Anatomie, Bd. ii. s. 138; and a paper on the diseases of the placenta, by Dr. Simpson, in the Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. xlv. p. 305 et seq. t Dr. Hildebrand of Berlin has also noticed my cases with some remarks : see Gr'afe, und Walthers Journal der Chirurgie, Bd. 18, 11, p. 325 : 1832. The latest author on the subject is Graetzer, die Krankheiten des fcetus, Breslau, 1837, p. 69. } Memoirs of the Imperial Academy of Sciences of St. Petersburgh for 1834, sixth series, vol. iii. p. 3, 7. ยง Bulletins de la Faculte, &c. for 1817, torn. v. p. 213.