EXTREMITY. 162 sixth year; from the eighth to the ninth year the ossifie elements of the head of the hume- rus become united and the head is com- pleted. The inferior extremity of the humerus, accord- ing to Cruveilhier, begins to ossify later than the superior. The first point of ossification noticed in it is for the external condyle: this appears at the age of two years and a half; at seven years a second point of ossification commences for the epitrochlea; at twelve a third point appears for the internal edge of the trochlea; and at sixteen years a fourth point for the epicondyle. These four points of ossification, Cruveilhier states, are united in the following order: first, in the second year, the two points of the trochlea are united; and, secondly, at sixteen years the trochlea, epicondyle, and the condyle form a a single piece.* The union of the extremities with the shaft of the bone takes place from the eighteenth to the twentieth year; and all ob- servers agree in stating that the union of the inferior extremity with the shaft always pre- cedes that of the superior extremity, although the ossification of the latter is prior. Forearm.— The bones of the forearm are the ulna and radius, of which the former con- stitutes the second essential element in the elbow-joint, the radius being chiefly an acces- sory bone to provide for the wider range of motion of the hand. The ulna therefore is the principal lever of the forearm, and the motions of flexion and extension of that segment of the limb upon the arm depend upon it; at its superior extremity it forms a very firm hinge- jomt with the trochlea of the humerus, but in- feriorly its connexion with the carpus at the wrist-joint is very slight, and it forms by no means an essential element of that joint. On the other hand, the radius at its inferior ex- tremity forms a very important part of the wrist-joint, but at its superior its connection with the elbow-joint is due to its necessary articulation with the outer side of the ulna. Vina (KV@nov, cubitus; Fr. os du coitde; Germ, das Elleribogenbein.f) This bone is situated on the inner side of the forearm. It is the longest and the largest bone of that region, and in the vertical position of the limb it is directed downwards and a little outwards, the obliquity being occasioned by the greater pro- jection downwards of the inner lip of the trochlea of the humerus, as already alluded to in describing that bone. The upper or humeral extremity of the ulna is at once distinguished by its great size from the inferior extremity. It consists of two pro- cesses joined to each other at a right angle, and so that that angle opens forwards. One of these processes is vertical, and is continued in * Cruveilhier, Anat. Descr. torn. i. p. 231. t The term focile was applied to this bone as well as to the radius by some of the ancient anatomists, in imitation of the Arabians, who used the word send, sc. an instrument analogous to our tinder-box, which consisted of two sticks, similar in appear- ance and proportions to the bones of the forearm. Focile majw was the ulna, focile minus the radius. Blumenbach, Beschreibung der Knochen, p. 395. the direction of the long axis of the bone, and is little else than a continuation of the shaft; this is the olecranon: the other is horizontal, anterior to the olecranon, as it were placed upon the superior extremity of the bone, so as to project considerably beyond the plane of its anterior surface : this is the coronoid process. The olecranon, (wXehi, cubitus, k^oivov, caput,") also called processus anconeus, may be said to begin from the angle of junction of the coro- noid process with it; there the bone appears slightly constricted, for above that point it ex- pands. We notice five surfaces upon it. The superior surface is horizontal; it presents pos- teriorly a muscular impression affording inser- tion to the triceps extensor, and anteriorly it ends in a remarkable beak, which, in the state of complete extension, is received into the ole- cranon cavity of the humerus. The posterior surface is rough with a very obviously trian- gular outline; this surface gives insertion to the triceps muscle. The internal surface is also rough, and covered by the fibrous ex- pansion from the tendon of the triceps, and at its anterior margin affords insertion to the superior fibres of the internal lateral ligament. The external surface is smooth, and also is covered by the fibrous expansion from the ten- don of the triceps. The anterior surface is articular; it presents the appearance of having been covered by articular cartilage; it is divided by a rounded vertical ridge into two unequal portions, of which the internal is larger than the external. This surface is limited below by a transverse depression, non-articular, in which some fatty matter is deposited in the recent state. The surface is convex from side to side in the centre, and each of its lateral portions is concave; the whole surface is concave from above downwards. In the extended state of the forearm this articular surface of the olecra- non is applied to the posterior part of the trochlea of the humerus ; it forms the posterior part of the great sigmoid cavity of the ulna. The coronoid process is wedge-shaped, at- tached by its base to the anterior surface of the ulna, the sharper edge projecting forwards and free. This edge is convex, and sometimes forms a point; it is received into the coronoid cavity of the humerus. On the external sur- face of the coronoid process is an oval articular facet, concave from behind forwards, whose long axis is horizontal; this is the lesser sigmoid cavity, and is articulated with the inner side of the head of the radius ; the internal surface is rough, and has a projecting lip, which affords attachment to the anterior fibres of the internal lateral ligament. The anterior surface is in- clined from above downwards and from before backwards, so that its aspect is downwards and forwards; it is slightly hollowed transversely, and is rough, the roughness being continued down for a little way in front of the bone, thus forming a rough surface triangular in form, the base corresponding to the anterior edge of the coronoid process; this surface affords insertion to the brachiaeus anticus muscle. The superior surface forms the anterior portion of the great