436 GENERATION. egg is proportionally large, the foetus grows principally by the assimilation of materials procured from it, and there is not that intimate connection of structure nor interchange of substance between the mother and foetus which occurs in Mammalia. The term ovo-viviparous is applied to the variety of reproduction now under consideration; as expressing that in it, although the foetus is produced fully formed and alive, the ovum is merely hatched within the parent body. We find, accordingly, that this form of generation is liable to vary, and occasionally to run into the truly oviparous kind. Thus, some animals which bear live young at one season lay eggs at another season of the year, as occurs in some Insects; and in others, as Lacerta agilis, the ova remain within the mother's body for a part only of the time employed in the development of the young; the process of hatching beginning and going on for a longer or shorter time within the female parent, and being completed as in the bird without. In all truly viviparous, in most ovo-vivi- parous, and also in many oviparous animals, the ova are fecundated within the parent's body; and we find provided for the purpose of introducing the seminal fluid into the female genital organs, a more or less complicated ap- paratus in both male and female, by which the union of the sexes is brought about. In the greater number of strictly oviparous ani- mals, and particularly those that are aquatic, as osseous fishes and Batrachian Reptiles, fecundation is operated externally to the pa- rent body; that is, there is no union of the sexual organs of the male and female, but the ova laid by the female are covered with a certain quantity of seminal fluid shed by the male.* Utero-gestation in the Mammalia is termi- nated by parturition or the birth of the young; while in the bird or oviparous animal birth con- sists in the exclusion of the young from the egg. At this period in Mammalia, the organic con- nection between mother and offspring is dis- solved, and in both viviparous and oviparous animals the birth is accompanied by important structural changes, which fit the offspring for independent life and aerial or aquatic respira- tion. The young of Mammalia after birth, though they cease to be organically connected with the mother, continue to derive a certain quantity of support from her, feeding on the milk secreted by the mamma?. But in all other classes of animals, the young are at birth capable of feeding on external aliment. Varieties in respect to utero-gestution and the developement of the young.—There is con- siderable variety among different animals in the degree of perfection at which the young have arrived at the period of birth. Thus, Insects, Batrachian Reptiles, and some other * In the land Salamander.which is ovo-viviparous and breeds in the water although there is no sexual union of the male and female, there is yet internal fecundation, the seminal fluid being carried into the oviduct of the female along with the water in which it is effused. animals leave the egg at a very early period; differing widely from their parents in struc- ture and functions, they live for a time in a masked or larva condition, and undergo after- wards various changes or so-called metamor- phoses before attaining the mature condition. Fishes leave the egg while their structure is yet very incomplete; and even in the higher animals we observe varieties in this respect: thus, some birds, more especially those build- ing on trees, are unfledged, blind, and help- less when the shell is broken; and some quadrupeds, among which may be mentioned the Rodentia, Feline, and Canine species, are at birth blind and weak, and with little power of supporting their natural high tem- perature.* The most remarkable instance of variety of the kind now alluded to, how- ever, occurs in the Kangaroo and other Mar- supial animals, the generation of which de- serves more particular mention in this place as it exhibits a considerable deviation from the more ordinary reproductive process in Mam- malia, and is attended with some important modifications in the structure of the generative organs. In the Mammalia generally, it has already been stated that there is an intimate organic connection between the foetus and mother, by means of which the former is supplied with the materials of its growth. The intimacy of this union (as we shall explain more fully else- where) varies much in different tribes of ani- mals. It is greatest in the placenta of the human female, and from this there may be traced a series of animals in which it becomes more and more loose. According to recent researches in Comparative Anatomy, there is also observable in the descending series of these animals a nearer and nearer approach in the general structure of the body, and in the conformation of the generative organs to the oviparous type. This approach to the ovipa- rous structure is most strongly marked in the Marsupiata, as the Opossum, Kangaroo, &.C. and in the Monotremata, as the Ornithorynchus and Echidna. + Marsupiate generation.—The foetus of the marsupiate animal leaves the uterine system of the mother or is born at an early period of its formation, while it is yet of a very small size, and its organs are comparatively imperfectly formed. On being born it is introduced by the mother into the pouch or marsupium formed by a reduplication of the integuments of the lower part of the belly, and a short time after it gets there, the foetus is found attached by its mouth to one of the nipples of the mamma?, which are concealed within the mar- supium. The young of the marsupiate animal * Under the head of OVUM we shall shew that all animals undergo changes which constitute me- tamorphoses of one kind or other during their for- mation or development. t See the interesting papers by Mr. Owen on the Generation of the Kangaroo and Ornithoryn- chus in the Philosophical Transactions, part ii. for 1834, p. 333, and in the Transactions of the Zoological Society, vol. i. p. 221.