INSECTIVORA. 1002 former class are very numerous and of very various form in the different genera, and the great diversity of number in the molar teeth depends in most cases upon these, the true molares being but three on each side both above and below in all the genera, excepting in Chrysochloris, in which they are f:§, in Eri- naceus, in which they are and in Centenes In Chrysochloris the true molares are very curiously and beautifully formed: they are much compressed from before backwards, of a three-sided form, each of the angles ter- minating in a sharp elevated point; thus, in those of the upper jaw, there are two situated externally and one internally, and in the lower jaw one externally and two internally. The whole of the true molares, in all the Insecti- vora, are formed of three-sided prisms, either single or double, and surmounted by acute tubercles. The salivary glands are generally much de- veloped in the Insectivora. In the hedgehog the parotids are larger than the submaxillary; the sublingual are placed in two rows, of which the larger is situate nearest to the lower jaw. In the mole these glands are very large; the parotids are of an oblong shape, and the maxillary are formed of several rounded and detached lobes. In Sorex the maxillary glands are of larger size than the parotids, and the latter are situated very low to accommodate the oblique direction of the auditory canal. The form of the stomach in this Order of animals is perfectly simple, and does not greatly vary in the different genera. It is situated transversely with regard to the axis of the body, is somewhat elongated, and the two orifices are distant from each other, as in many of the Carnivore, and in the insectivorous bats. The cardiac pouch is generally distinct and rounded; the pyloric extremity, on the con- trary, is conical and perfectly even. In Erina- ceus the cardiac point is considerable, the en- trance to the oesophagus being at no great dis- tance from the pylorus; and the internal coat forms numerous ruga and folds. This form of the stomach and the existence of plicae must be considered as indicating an aberration from the insectivorous type, and a certain degree of ap- titude for the digestion of vegetable matters, and we find accordingly that this, with a slight exception or two, is the only family of the Insectivora which can exist upon any but the most exclusive animal aliment. The mole, the Chrysochloris, and all their congeners, are in this latter case; but the hedgehog, as is well known, will readily eat various vegetable sub- stances, and often digs under the common plantain for the purpose of obtaining the roots, of which it appears to be very fond. The sto- mach varies a little in its form in the different genera of the Soricida. In the great shrew of India it is transverse, the pyloric portion coni- cal, of moderate dimensions, the cardiac pouch small and the two orifices distant; a form which indicates an exclusive aptitude for insect food; but it would appear that the water-shrews (Hydrosorex) must occasionally have recourse to some kind of vegetable diet, as the pyloric portion is so much elongated as to resemble in some degree that of the Pteropida or fruit- eating Cheiroptera, exhibited in Jig. 287, vol. i. p. 600. In the mole the oesophagus enters at about the middle of its anterior margin, and the lesser curvature is nearly straight to the pylorus. The membranes are extremely deli- cate and almost transparent. The form is es- sentially similar in Chrysochloris and in Con- dytura. The stomach of Tupaia, according to the Baron Cuvier, is of a globular form. The intestinal canal is upon the whole re- markably short in the Insectivora. There are some exceptions to this rule, but the only one bearing upon a difference of aliment is that of the hedgehog, which, as has been before ob- served, lives partially upon vegetable matters. In this animal it is, with regard to the length of the body, as 6.6 to 1. In Talpa and Centenes this proportion is even exceeded, but it is com- pensated for by the extreme narrowness of the canal; the diameter of which is to its length, in the mole, as 1 to 82; whilst in the hedge- hog it is as 1 to 58. In Sorex its length is to its diameter only as about 3 to 1, or a little more. There is no ccecum known to exist in any of the Insectivora. Cuvier queries whe- ther Tupaia be not an exception, but this we have at present no means of ascertaining. The liver is in general fully developed in all its parts; there are the principal lobe, to which the gall-bladder is attached, with a notch answering to the suspensory ligament, a right and a left lobe, and two smaller lobes or lo- buli, a right and a left. The whole of these parts are generally found, but varying without any known law, or any ascertained relation to functional peculiarity. In the hedgehog and in the mole the left lobule is composed of two portions, a cardiac and a pyloric, as in the Rodentia. In Tupaia, according to the state- ment of Cuvier, the three portions into which the liver is divided belong to the principal lobe; there is no right or left lobe, and the right lo- bule is also wanting. The gall-bladder is for the most part of considerable size. In the hedgehog its fundus appears beyond the free margin of the liver, and is supported by a process of falciform ligament. In the Tenrec, on the contrary, it is as it were incrusted by the substance of the right portion of the prin- cipal lobe. IV. Nervous system.—The form and propor- tions of the brain in some of the Insectivora ex- hibit a degree of developement not materially superior to that of the higher Carnivora; whilst others, and especially the mole, have the same higher proportion which are found in the Chei- roptera : thus in the hedgehog the volume of the brain is to that of the body as 1 to 168; whilst in the mole it is as 1 to 36. The pro- portion of the cerebellum to the cerebrum in the latter animal, however, indicates a consi- derable developement of the sexual functions, being as 1 to 4£. Supposing the theories of many modern physiologists to be correct, this fact is in perfect accordance with the neces- sities of the animal, whose means of obtaining access to the opposite sex are extremely diffi-