910 INSECTA. scarcely to be detected. A similar condition of parts exists in the heads of other Coleoptera. The disappearance of one segment of the head thus early in the larva state is in perfect accord- ance with that progressive developement which we know takes place in every part of the body, and hence it was to be expected, that those parts in which the changes first occur are those which first entirely disappear. Hence the dis- appearance of the fourth subsegment, which we believe exists in the earliest stages of the larva, and of which the antennas are the superior ap- pendages. If we turn from this transitory larva state of the insect to the permanent ver- miform condition of the Annelida, the lower Articulata, we find in the common Nereis a condition of the head apparently analogous to that of the vermiform larva. It is elongated forwards, and formed of distinct segments, of which the posterior ones, as in insects, support the organs of vision. But these remarks on the relations of the different parts of the head are offered with much hesitation, because, in Myriapods, which have usually been com- pared with the larvae of insects, the form of the head seems to be opposed to this mode of view- ing its development in Articulata, since the antennae and organs of vision are situated on the most anterior part of a large and broad shield, which has been considered the first segment. But if this be correct, it will be diffi- cult to explain the circumstance of the an- tennae and corneae of hexapodous insects being constantly situated posteriorly to the first three sub-segments of the head, the labrum and clypei. The appendages of the head, which form part of the organs of manducation, correspond in number to the number of sub-segments. These parts are analogous to those which consti- tute the organs of locomotion, when attached to other segments of the body, as in Myriapoda, and Crustacea. In the head of an insect the mandibles are the proper appendages of the fifth or basilar sub-segment, while a small but freely articulated lobe, which sometimes exists, as in some of the Bruchehitra, at the inner side of the mandible, appears to represent that of the fourth. The stipes, or external portion of the maxilla, which at its base articulates with the cardo, and at its distal extremity is connected with the palpus, seems to be the proper appendage of the submentum, while the inner portion of the maxilla, which origi- nally appears to be a distinct part, and which at its distal extremity supports the galea, seems to be the proper appendage of the se- cond sub-segment, and the labial palpi in like manner represent those of the ligula or first. It has been shewn by Savigny and others, that these analogues of the organs of locomotion undergo a very gradual change of form and use in the different classes. In Myriapoda the ap- pendages that belong to the basilar segment of the head, which constitute the mandibles, are greatly enlarged, and are directed forwards as organs of prehension, like the chelate organs of Crustacea and Arachnida, but are jointed and retain the exact form of true legs. In insects the mandibles are in like manner directed for- wards, and are placed above those of the pre- ceding segments, but are compressed, and mate- rially altered in size and shape, their terminal portions, the tarsal joints, being undeveloped, and the tibia alone enormously enlarged, con- stituting the whole jaw or manducatory organ, while the basilar joints, the femur and coxa, are lost in the under surface of the segment, with which they have become confluent. That this is really the case is proved by the fact that all the muscles that belong to these powerful organs are attached to the basilar and postero- lateral parts of the head, in the very situations which they must have occupied had the organs remained free for the purposes of locomotion or prehension, as in Crustacea, Arachnida, or Myriapoda. That this confluence of parts has in reality taken place is further proved by the circumstance, that the outlines of the portions that become united with the skull are distinctly marked in Lucanus cervus, and still more clearly in that of the great Hydrous (Jig. 369, o). There is a remarkable illustration of the principle upon which the change of form in the adaptation of these organs to a new func- tion depends, in that curious instance of mon- strosity in an individual of Geotrupes sterco- rarius, described in a former page (860), in which the tibiae of the pro-thoracic legs l^e been arrested in their development, and are lunated like the proper mandibles, the tarsi being entirely absent. In a remarkable insect, Onitis uygulus, to which our attention was directed by Mr. Shuckard, there is a further illustration of this principle, in the permanent condition of the pro-thoracic legs of that spe- cies, in which the tarsi are entirely absent, and the tibiae are lunated and terminated each by a sharp hook. There is also a similar condition of the same parts in other species, 0. Olivierii, 0. serripes, and O.chinensis and Apelles, while in a species of a neighbouring genus, Bubos bison, the tibiae are considerably narrower than in the preceding, and approach much nearer in shape to the instance of monstrosity in Geotrupes, thus distinctly indicating, not only that the form of parts depends either upon excessive or deficient developement, but also that the abnor- mal conditions occasionally met with in some species are permanent normal conditions in others. From the manner in which the appendages of the cranial sub-segments are arranged to form the parts of the mouth, it necessarily follows that the most posterior pair, the mandibles, are carried upwards, and become the superior lateral organs; while the maxillae obtain the next place beneath them, and the whole are covered in by the inferior arches of their re- spective sub-segments, which constitute the labium. In all insects, the whole of the parts of the head in the perfect individual exist in the head of the larva, the changes which take place being only those of size and relative position. When the head of the larva is smaller than that of the future imago, as in the Hymenoptera, its increase of size just before the insect changes into a nymph, and when a great portion of the