958 INSECTA. tary canal. Muller* had previously shewn a similar arrangement of these ganglia in Gryllo- talpa vulgaris, and Brandt f has since further elucidated the distribution of these structures in the same insects. We have ourselves re- cently found a somewhat similar distribution of these nerves in one of the Coleoptera, Bupres- tis chrysis, in which the first of the anterior lateral ganglia, on each side, besides its con- nexion with the brain, gives off three distinct nerves, one of which passes outwards to the muscles of the oesophagus and pharynx, and another inwards to unite with the great trunk of the recurrent nerve, while the third passes backwards for a short distance, and then forms the second of the lateral ganglia, from which, in like manner also, proceed three other nerves. The first of these passes outwards to the sides of the oesophagus, and the second inwards to join a large ganglion formed at the extremity of the recurrent nerve, while the third branch is of considerable length and traceable for a great distance along the sides of the oesophagus. From the ganglion at the termination of the recurrent nerve, and which most certainly be- longs to this trunk, are also given off two nerves, which are soon again divided, and distributed along the posterior part of the oesophagus. From these connexions, and the relative size of the parts, it still appears to us that although the sympathetic and recurrent nerves are most intimately connected, and appear in certain instances almost to supply the place of each other, there is reason for still considering them as distinct, and for describing the latter, as we formerly designated it,} as the vagus. The vag7(S, or visceral nerve of Professor Muller, after arising, as in the larva, from the anterior part of the base of the cerebrum, and forming a ganglion on the upper surface of the pharynx, always passes backwards beneath the brain, along the middle line of the oesophagus. We shall first describe its course in Lepidopte- rous insects, and point out what we conceive to be its analogies to the vagus of vertebrata. In the Sphinx it originates in the perfect insect, as in the larva, from the lowest part of the anterior surface of the brain by two roots, one on each side, which we regard as analogous to the two vagi in the higher animals. Each root gives off from its base a small branch to the sides of the mouth, after which the two roots ascend, and meeting above the pharynx, form the frontal ganglion, from the anterior surface of which a few nerves are given to the mouth and palate, and also to the bifurcation of the dorsal vessel, which, after having passed along the oesopha- gus and beneath the brain, is divided in front of the brain into several branches. The frontal ganglion at the junction of these roots of the vagus we regard as analogous to the enlarge- ment on the vagus nerve in vertebrata after it has passed out of the skull by the foramen la- cerum posterius. From the ganglion thus formed by the approximation of the two roots, a single trunk passes backwards along the me- * Nova Acta Curios. Nat. vol. xiv. f Annal. des Sciences Natur, torn. v. t Phil. Trans. 1832. dian line, lying upon the oesophagus and be- neath the dorsal vessel, and giving to both se- veral blanches in its course. When arrived at the dilatation of the oesophagus, the air-bag or crop, it first distributes a few filaments to that part, and then divides into two primary branches, which run along the sides of the stomach, and are again subdivided and distri- buted to it. Behind the brain, the vagus in the Sphinx receives but one branch of communica- tion on each side from the sympathetic ganglia, which connexions appear to be analogous to those between the vagus and sympathetic in vertebrata. In passing along the median line of the oesophagus, the single vagus in insects is in close relation with the anterior or aortal portion of the dorsal vessel, which may repre- sent the two carotids of the higher animals united, and thus its relation to these parts is also precisely similar to that of the vagus, caro- tids, and oesophagus in these animals. There is a like analogy in its distribution to the anterior part of the stomach, beyond the middle portion of which it has never yet been traced. At its point of division the single vagus nerve often forms a very distinct ganglion, as in the Melcie (Jig. 416, i). This is the usual distribution in a large majority of insects, more particularly in the Lepidoptera, Coleoptera, Neuroptera, Fig. 416. Brain and vagus nerve of MeToe cicairicosus. Hymenoptera, and in many of the Orthoptera. In Luc anus cervus (Jig. 417), the nerve, conti- nued backwards from the frontal ganglia (a), is of large size until after it has passed beneath the brain, and given off a minute branch on each side to the dorsal vessel and oesophagus, after which it becomes on a sudden much smaller, and forms a second small ganglion, (e,) which is connected on each side by a single branch with the sympathetic ganglia (C,) which have assumed an elongated form, and are greatly enlarged. After this the vagus nerve is continued as a single trunk, (&,) until it