947 INSECTA. by which it is presumed they are thus endowed with voluntary power and sensation. But on reflection it will appear that this ought really to be the case. To enable the insect to make a forcible expiration and close its spiracle, which is evidently an act of volition, the great con- strictor of the spiracle ought to be endowed with voluntary nerves. Un the other hand, since, as we know from experiment that the insect has a voluntary power of closing, it must also have a similar power of opening the orifice, and, consequently, the retractor valvule ought to be supplied from the same source as the constrictor. The remaining portion of the trunk of these nerves passes forwards and out- wards, crosses the retractor of the spiracle and gives off its third branch, which is again divided, and sends one portion backwards to the anterior (18) and the transverse abdominal muscles (17), and the other forwards to the transverse lateral (23). The remaining portion of the nerve is distributed to the dorsal muscles and teguments. The second nerve from the gangliated part of the cord is much smaller than the first. It passes diagonally backwards and outwards, and divides into two branches, the first of which is given to the latero-abdo- minal muscles, and the second to the triangular and transverse median, while the other (/c) passes downwards and outwards, and is con- tinuous with part of the third branch of the transverse nerves (i). Besides the nerves thus described as belong- ing to the moto-sensitive cord in the thorax and abdomen, there are others that merit particular consideration, both from the circumstance of their lying loosely above the cord, and from their special distribution. These nerves, which were formerly distinguished by us* as trans- verse nerves from the direction of their prin- cipal branches, and as respiratory from their special distribution to the respiratory organs, were discovered by Lyonet, and are delineated and particularly described in his anatomy of Cossus ligniperda. There is a plexus of them in every segment of the thorax and abdomen. Like the alary nerves of the cord in the thorax, there is a little difference in the distribution of some of them in the Sphinx from that of the corresponding plexus in the Cossus. In our earlier examinations of these nervesf we be- lieved them to originate from the posterior part of each ganglion of the cord, and this also was the opinion of Lyonet with reference to those in the Cossus which constitute the second and third plexus of the thorax, and the last of the abdomen, and which, he expressly states, do not come from the cords, but from the ganglia.J We have since been satisfied that the plexus in one segment is connected with that in each succeeding one by means of a minute filament, derived from the transverse portion of these * Phil. Trans. 1832, part ii. p. 389, and 1834, part ii. p. 401, also 1836, part ii. p. 544. t Op. cit. 1832. I Traite Anat. de la Chenille, 17G0, also 1762, p. 98 and 204. nerves, and which, passing laterally over and very close to the ganglion of the cord, joins its fellow of the opposite side, in the middle line behind it, to form the longitudinal portion of the next plexus, such filament gathering a few additional ones from the upper or motor sur- face of the cords. Hence, as we have stated,* these nerves are of mixed character, and con- tain some voluntary motor fibrils. Each plexus is formed of these two filaments, which, closely approximated together, pass backwards along the median line above the cord, until they arrive just before the next ganglion, where they diverge nearly at right angles, and are closely approximated to another series of fibres that runs in a commissural manner transversely across the body, from one side to the other. On each side a filament (e) is given off from the transverse nerves to unite with the moto- sensitive (f) close to the inner side of the smaller rectus. Near the external margin of that muscle it gives off another branch (g), which passes forwards upon the mus- cle, unto which it gives filaments, and then turns suddenly outwards (/i), to join a branch from the great moto-sensitive nerve, while a smaller branch is continued onwards to supply the remainder of the muscle. This union is exceedingly interesting, and illustrates the fact that, even in the Invertebrata, some of the nerves in one part are connected by loops with those in others, as noticed by physiologists in the Vertebrated classes. The next branch (i) of the transverse nerves is equally interesting from the same circumstance. It is continuous in the same manner with another branch of the moto-sensitive {k). This branch is composed of fibres that are approximated to the transverse trunk, and pass some from without inwards, and others from within outwards, to form the nerve («), leaving between them at its base a little triangular interspace, covered by a mem- brane and resembling the plexus (b). This nerve passes directly forwards until it arrives at the insertion of the greater recti (j), where it gives off a large branch to those muscles, and then passing beneath the oblique muscles, unto which it is distributed, and to the trian- gularis, becomes connected by loops with the second pair of moto-sensitive nerves (k) in the preceding segments. Neither of these two branches have been delineated by Lyonet in the Cossus. The next branch (/) of the trans- verse nerves is given to the trachea; and visceral surface of the great rectus, after which the trunk of the nerve passes outwards until it arrives at the tuft of tracheal vessels which are situated just behind the spiracle (F). It there divides (?«) into two branches, one of which passes on each side of these trachea;. Some filaments from the anterior branch pass inwards along the trachea towards the alimentary canal, while others are distributed to the transverse lateral muscles, dorsal recti, and lateral mus- cles of the dorsal vessel. The other division of the nerve also gives branches to the trachea; * Phil. Trans, part ii. 1836. 3 Q 2