ENTOZOA. 117 Acanthotheca; and the singular organization of the Syngamus of Siebold, presently to be described, clearly indicates the type of a third order of Cavitary Entozoa. As a short description has already been given of the species of Protelmintha which inhabit the human body, we shall proceed to notice those species belonging to the two di- visions of Entozoa above defined, which have a similar locality, before entering upon the organization of the class generally. The first and simplest parasite which de- mands our attention is the common globular Hydatid, which is frequently developed in the substance of the liver, kidney, or other abdo- minal viscera, and occasionally exists in prodi- gious numbers in dropsical cysts in the human subject. Considerable diversity of opinion still exists as to the nature of these ambiguous productions, to which Laennec first gave the name of Ace- phalocysts; we shall nevertheless admit them into the category of human parasites, for reasons which are stated in the following descrip- tion. The Acephalocyst is an organized being, consisting of a globular bag, which is com- posed of condensed albuminous matter, of a laminated texture, and contains a limpid co- lourless fluid, with a little albuminous and a greater proportion of gelatinous substance. The properties by which we recognize the Acephalocyst as an independent or individual organized being are, first, growth, by intrinsic power of imbibition; and, secondly, reproduc- tion of its species by gemmation. The young Acephalocysts are developed between the layers of the parent cyst, and thrown off either inter- nally or externally according to the species. As the best observers agree in stating that the Acephalocyst is impassive under the appli- cation of stimuli of any kind, and manifests no contractile power either partial or general, save such as evidently results from elasticity, in short, neither feels nor moves, it cannot, as the animal kingdom is at present characterized, be referred to that division of organic nature. It would then be a question how far its chemical composition forbids us to rank the Acephalocyst among vegetables. In this king- dom it would obviously take place next those simple and minute vesicles, which, in the aggregate, constitute the green matter of Priestly, (Protococcus viridis, Agardh;) or those equally simple but differently coloured Psychodiaria, which give rise to the red snow of the Arctic regions, (Protococcus Ker- mesianus.) These " first-born of Flora'' con- sist in fact of a simple transparent cyst, and propagate their kind by gemmules developed from the external surface of the parent. Or shall we, from the accidental circum- stance of the Acephalocyst being developed in the interior of animal bodies, regard it, as Rudolphi would persuade, in the same light as an ulcer, or pustule,—as a mere morbid pro- duct? The reasons assigned by the learned Pro- Acephalocystis endogena. fessor* do induce us to consider the Acephalo- cyst as a being far inferior in the scale of orga- nization to the Cysticercus; but still not the less as an independent organized species, sharing its place of development and sphere of existence in common with the rest of the Entozoa. Acephulocystis endogena. Pill-box Hydatid of Hunter, (fig. 56). This species is so called from the circum- Fig. 56. stance of the gem- mules being detach- ed from the internal surface of the cyst, where they grow, and, in like man- ner, propagate their kind, so that the successive genera- tions produce the appearance descri- bed by Hunter and other pathologists. The membrane of the cyst is thin, delicate, transparent, or with a certain pearly semi-opacity; it tears readily and equally in every direction, and can, in large specimens, be separated into lamina;. The phenomenon of endosmose is readily seen by placing the recent Acepha- locyst in a coloured liquid, little streams of which are gradually transmitted and mingle with the fluid of the parasite. The vesicles or gemmules, developed in the parietes of the cyst, may be observed of different sizes, some of microscopic dimensions, others of a line in diameter before they are cast off, see fig. 56, where a shows the laminated membrane, b the minute Acephalocysts developed between its layers. The Acephalocyst of the Ox and other Ru- minant Animals differs from that of the Hu- man Subject in excluding the gemmule from the external surface, whence the species is termed Acephulocystis exogena by Kuril. Both kinds are contained in an adventitious cyst, com- posed of the condensed cellular substance of the organ in which they are developed. The Genus Echinococcus is admitted by Rudolphi into the Order Cystica, less on ac- count of the external globular cyst, which, like the Acephalocyst, is unprovided with a head or mouth, than from the structure of the minute bodies which it contains, and which are described as possessing the armed and suctorious head characteristic of the Ccenuri and Cysticerci. It must be ob- served that Rudolphi-f does not ascribe this * Mihi, quidem, ea tandem hydatis animal vivum vocatur, qua? vitam propriam degit uti Cys- ticerci, Coenuri, &c. Quae autem organismi alieni (v. c. humani) particulum efficit animal, me judice, dici nequit. Mortua non est, quamdiu organismi partem sistit, uti etiam ulcus, pustula, efflorescentia ; sed haec ideo non sunt animalia.—■ Synops. Entoz. p. 551. t Vermiculi globosi, subglobosi, obovati, obcor- dati, etc.; pro capite plus minus vel exserto vel rctracto; posticc mox obtusissimi, mox obtusi, mox acuti. Corona uncinulorum, uti vidctur, duplex.