1004 INSECTIVORA. The chiasma is very distinct, without a trace of a nerve proceeding from it." Fig. 453. The organ of hearing in the mole is so con- structed as to afford the greatest possible deli- cacy and acuteness of this important sense, and thus to counterbalance the deficiency in that of sight. It would indeed appear that the mass of compact bone constituting the petrous por- tion of the temporal, which surrounds the laby- rinth in most of the Mammalia, must more or less diminish the powers of hearing, for we find it deficient in many animals, which from their habits require this sense to be in the greatest perfection. Thus, in the mole, the semicircular canals are free and visible within the cranium, without any preparation; and the parietes of the cochlea itself are almost as cellular and loose as we find in birds. The ear of the mole possesses no concha; it is small in the shrews; and in the water-shrews (Hydfosorex) the external meatus is closed at the will of the animal by means of the anti- tragus; a provision obviously essential to its aquatic habits. When it is considered that the sense of vision is only available on the rare occasions of the appearance of the mole on the surface, and then only for very limited objects, and that all its intimations of danger, and its only guide to the opposite sex, are by means of the sense of hearing, the necessity for this extraordinary deve- lopement of that sense at the expense of that of sight becomes obvious. And as, from the nature and situation of its food and its means of pro- curing it, the sense of smell is equally neces- sary for effecting this object, we find that the olfactory organ is also of considerable volume. The structure of the nose itself is highly curious and admirably suited to the habits of the ani- mal. The cartilages of the nose are elongated into a tube or trunk, which extends far beyond the osseous basis, and is supported by a very delicate moveable bone, which is represented in the figure of the cranium of the mole at jig. 441. It is furnished with a muscular appa- ratus of considerable complexity (seefg. 446), consisting of no less than four pairs of muscles, which arise from above the ears, and passing forwards are inserted by separate tendons into the circumference of the extremity of the carti- laginous snout. This structure is of the utmost advantage to the animal in its subterranean search after worms and insects. There is no order of Mammalia in which a greater contrast is exhibited in the external covering of the body than in the different groups of thp Insectivora. The porcupine and the mouse, amongst the Rudentia, do not offer a more remarkable contrast in this respect than do the two families of the Erinaceada and the Talpida. The habits of the hedgehog de- pending for its defence upon the panoply of armour which it presents to its enemies, when rolled up in a compact ball by the muscular apparatus already described, it is furnished on all the upper and lateral parts of the body with hard sharp spines or quills. Fig. 454 Fig. 454. is taken from a drawing by William Bell, engraved in the Hunterian Catalogue, vol. iii. from which also the following description is borrowed:—" On the cut edge of the skin may be seen the roots and sockets of the quills, extending to different depths from the surface, according to the period of their growth: the newly formed ones are lodged deep and ter- minate in a broad basis, the pulp being large and active, and the cavity containing it of cor- responding size; but as the growth of the quill proceeds, the reflected integument forming the socket contracts, and gradually draws the quill nearer the surface; the pulp is at the same time progressively absorbed, and the base of the