FEMORAL ARTERY. 255 arch downward, and when he comes to the place where he does not feel any more, or very confusedly, the vibration of the artery, he will there fix with his eye the inferior angle or ex- tremity of the incision which he proposes to make for bringing the artery into view. This lower angle of the incision will fall nearly on the internal margin of the sartorius muscle, just where this muscle crosses the course of the femoral artery. A little more than three inches above the place pointed out, the surgeon will begin his incision and carry it along the thigh in a slightly oblique line from without inwards, following the course of the femoral artery as far as the point fixed with the eye." By this incision the skin and cellular substance are to be divided, and the fascia lata exposed, " then with another stroke of the bistoury, with his hand free and unsupported, or upon a furrowed probe, he will divide along the thigh, and in the same direction as the external wound the fascia, and introducing the fore-finger of his left hand into the bottom of the incision, he will imme- diately feel the strong beating of the artery, and this without the necessity of removing the in- ternal margin of the sartorius from its position, or at least very little. With the point of the fore-finger of the left hand already touching the artery, the surgeon will separate it from its lateral connexions and from the vein;" after which the ligature is to be carried round it by means of a blunt aneurism-needle. The author has introduced the preceding account ia order to fix the precise situation of the operation as performed by Scarpa, because it appears to him that it has been to a certain degree lost sight of, and also to direct attention more strongly to the advantage proposed by that distin- guished surgeon in the adoption of the method which he has recommended. A very brief consideration of the descriptions given by se- veral writers* of the proceedings to be adopted in the operation of taking up the artery in the upper part of the thigh will suffice to shew either that Scarpa's method has been con- founded more or less with the operation at a lower point, or that its advantages have been disregarded: thus, while it is stated that the part of the limb in which the femoral artery can be tied with the greatest facility is between four and five inches below Poupart's ligament, and which is Scarpa's point,f the displacement of the sartorius is accounted a part of the ope- ration, and it has even been debated whether the incision should not be made on the outer edge of the sartorius, and the artery exposed by drawing the muscle inward; but the dis- placement of the sartorius is not only not a necessary part of Scarpa's plan, but is that particular the avoidance of which he proposed to himself by the method he selected ; from whence it will appear that the operation, as described in the accounts alluded to, refers, strictly speaking, to the second and not to the first third of the vessel's course, within the latter of which it must be performed in order * Hodgson, &c. t The distance at which the sartorius crosses the artery varies according to the stature. to avoid the sartorius. . The structures to be divided in this operation are, 1. the skin, 2. the subcutaneous cellular structure, 3. the fascia lata, forming the anterior wall of the femoral canal. The extent of the superficial incisions need not exceed three inches, com- mencing above either according to the rule of Scarpa or about two inches below Poupart's ligament: the direction in which they should be made ought to correspond as nearly as pos- sible with the course of the artery. The extent to which the fascia lata is to be divided is stated differently by different writers : by some it is directed to be divided to the extent of about an inch : the direction of Scarpa is not precise upon the point in the text, though it is plain that he intended it should be divided to a much greater length than an inch, but in a note it is strongly insisted that the division of the fascia should correspond in extent to that of the external wound. Two reasons present for this : 1. greater facility in the performance of the operation, and less disturbance in con- sequence to the artery; 2. the avoiding the injurious effects which must be produced by the confinement consequent upon too limited a division of the fascia in the event of the supervention of inflammation. It cannot be doubted that a division of an inch is altogether too short to meet those considerations, and that the fascia ought to be divided to a greater ex- tent ; on the other hand it does not appear that advantage would be gained by so free a divi- sion as that recommended by Scarpa; and the rule of Guthrie seems the best calculated to ac- complish the ends in view: he advises the fascia to be divided for the space of two inches. The division may be effected either with or without the assistance of the director. It will be well to recollect here that, at the point at which the sartorius is about to overlap the artery, a du- plicature of the fascia takes place in order to enclose the muscle, and hence that, if the opening of the canal be attempted at the lower extremity of the stage, and close to the muscle, two layers of the fascia may require to be di- vided before this purpose can be accomplished. The femoral canal having been opened by the division of the fascia lata, the next step in the operation is the division of the proper sheath of the vessels and the insulation of the artery. Previous to this, should the internal genicular nerve be found to cross the canal superficial to the artery at the part, at which the vessel is to be detached from the contiguous parts, it should be separated and drawn outward. The insulation of the artery Scarpa recommends to be effected with the finger, raising the vessel from the wound even along with the vein if necessary; such a proceeding, however, must be very objectionable, as inflicting great dis- turbance and violence upon the artery. It is to be recollected that in order to insulate the artery it is necessary to divide or lacerate the investment, which immediately encloses the two vessels and connects them to each other, and which has been elsewhere denominated the femoral sheath ; this, though thin, is dense, and is to be expected to offer resistance to the