834 ILIAC ARTERIES. behind the ischium between its tuberosity and the great trochanter of the femur, and gives off as it descends numerous branches distributed in the superior posterior region of the thigh. Within the pelvis the artery is situate internal to the sacral nerves and the pyriformis muscle, external to the rectum and the peritoneum, in front of the sacrum, the nerves and the attach- ments of the pyriformis, and posterior and ex- ternal to the pudic artery; in escaping from the cavity it passes between the pyriformis and ischio-coccygeus muscles, and is accompanied by the pudic artery, to which it holds the same relation as before, but is closer to it, and by the sciatic nerve; within the pelvis it is internal and anterior to the sacral plexus, but as it goes out it passes between its branches, and thus becomes posterior to the nerve. Without the pelvis the ischiatic artery corre- sponds in front to the spinous process of the ischium, the gemelli, with the obturator inter- nus muscles, and the quadratus ; posteriorly, it is covered by the gluteus maximus and the inte- guments ; it is situate at first behind the sciatic nerve, but as it descends it becomes internal to the nerve, the distance between them increasing at the same time. While behind the spinous process of the ischium the ischiatic artery is external to the pudic artery, and more super- ficial, i.e. still posterior; butasthe pudic passes to the inside of the tuberosity of the bone, while the ischiatic runs on its outside, the two vessels immediately separate and cease to be related. Within the pelvis the ischiatic artery gives some irregular and small branches to the rec- tum, the bladder, the uterus, the vagina, the cellular tissue, the pyriformis and levator mus- cles ; at times it is considered as giving off also the pudic, the hemorrhoidal, or obturator arteries. The branches which it furnishes ex- ternal to the pelvis are numerous ; among them are distinguished the following :—1. The coccy- geal branch, of considerable size, runs down- ward and inward toward the coccyx, across the pudic artery and posterior to it, passes through the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and divides into branches, which are distributed to the ligament, to the gluteus, the coccygeus, and levator ani muscles, to the posterior aspect of the sacrum and coccyx, and to the fat and integument; its branches communicate with those of the pudic. 2. A considerable branch or set of branches, which run outward and downward toward the back of the great trochanter upon the internal obturator, gemelli, and quadratus muscles, sup- ply them with branches, and anastomose with the circumflex (femoral) arteries. 3. A branch or branches to the inferior part of the gluteus maximus, prolonged through it to its insertion, and then meeting the circumflex and perforating arteries. 4. A branch or branches, which attach themselves to the sciatic nerve, naturally of small size, but regular, and remarkable for the extraordinary change they undergo after the interruption of the main artery of the thigh; they arise about the tuberosity of the ischium, and descend along the nerve giving it branches, and communicating with branches from the perforating arteries, which also attach them- selves to the nerve, whereby a chain of auasto- moses is established along it, which, when the main channel has been interrupted, becomes amazingly enlarged and forms, as it were, one remarkably tortuous vessel along the entire length of the nerve. 6. A very considerable branch, the termination of the artery, distri- buted to the upper extremity of the flexors of the leg, the biceps, &c. and of the adductor muscles ; the ramifications of which communi- cate with the perforating and internal circumflex arteries. The ischiatic artery is circumstanced external to the pelvis so similarly to the gluteal, that, if necessary, it might be exposed during life by a similar operation ; for a mpthod of determining its situation prior to operation, the reader is re- ferred to the description of the pudic artery. 4. The internal pudic artery arises from the anterior division of the internal iliac, which for the most part, after having given off its other branches, divides into the ischiatic and the pudic ; the height at which the division takes place is uncertain ; at times it does not occur until the trunk has descended to the sciatic notch, or even escaped from the pelvis. The pudic artery is smaller than the sciatic; it passes downward, forward, and inward, until it reaches the inferior part of the great sciatic notch, through which it escapes from within the pelvis in company with the ischiatic artery, the pudic, and sciatic nerves ; having escaped from the pelvis it crosses the extremity of the spinous process of the ischium and the attach- ment of the anterior sacro-sciatic ligament, and returns into the cavity through the anterior notch, accompanied by the pudic nerve ; having re-entered the pelvis, it then runs forward, in- ward, and downward internal to the tuberosity of the ischium, until it reaches its anterior ex- tremity, whence it continues its course upward along the inside of the rami of the ischium and pubis toward the arch of the pubis, and beneath the latter finally divides ; the course of the artery, therefore, forms a considerable curve convex downward and backward, during which the vessel is contained within the pelvis at its commencement and its termination, and is without the cavity during the intermediate part. Its course is thence divided into three stages, during two of which it is within, and in the third without the cavity. The first stage of the artery's course, through- out which it is contained in the pelvis, extends from its origin to the lower part of the posterior sacro-sciatic notch, through which it escapes from the cavity ; it is of variable length, in con- sequence of the variable height at which the vessel arises. The relations of the artery during this stage are posteriorly and externally the sacral nerves, the pyriform muscle, and the sacrum; internally the peritoneum and the rectum ; it is posterior and external to the fun- dus of the bladder and the vesiculae seminales, and anterior and internal to the ischiatic artery; previous to its exit it sometimes passes between the sacral nerves before forming the plexus. It goes out from the pelvis below the pyriformis and above the spinous process of the ischium