FIBRES OF THE HEART. 6*22 same time presented. The other, describing the formation, or winding up of the fibres, comprehends the retracing of the fibres from the centre to the circumference, showing their respective origins, associations, courses, con- nexions, and terminations, also the manner in which they are wound up to form the two ven- tricles into one compact conical body. The dissection.— The first stage consists in separating the superficial fibres from the two ventricles, which, perhaps, cannot be accom- plished in a more simple manner than by rais- ing them in the forms of two wings and a tail, as represented in fig. 279, which is to be done by commencing at the anterior coronary track, cutting through the superficial fibres and de- taching them by means of a blunt scalpel in their natural direction, so far as their insertions at the base; this will be found to divest the right ventricle, and, from their obliquity, a part of the left. (See the left wing, Cacc) Then recommencing at the anterior coronary track, the fibres should be separated in the contrary direction, over the left ventricle towards the apex. These fibres take a very 6piral course, and as they approach the apex converge, but on reaching it they twist sharply round upon themselves, like the fibres of a thick cord, and entering at the apex become the internal fibres of this chamber. The remaining part of the superficial fibres, extending from the apex to the base, pertains exclusively to the left ventri- cle; these should be divided an inch or two above the apex, and the apicial portion detach- ed, which will complete the tail, Crc. Its fibres are represented, as they appear after sepa- ration, untwisted. The basial portion of these fibres should now be detached so far as the annulus arteriosus, and reflected like the right wing, Crc. These, as do most other fibres which approach the base, take a more longitu- dinal course, and in general they become so separated as they diverge to encompass the basial part of the heart, that they cannot be raised in an entire layer unless some of the subjacent fibres be taken with them. The second stage of the dissection comprises the disconnecting the bands which compose the outer or proper wall of the right ventricle. The superficial layer of fibres having been re- moved, there remain two other layers pertain- ing to this wall of the ventricle, viz. the middle and the internal. The middle is separable into two bands, the upper or basial, and the lower or apicial. It is better to detach the apicial band first, which makes one spiral circle round the heart. Its outer extremity being attached to the root of the aorta at its anterior face, and sometimes to the pulmonary artery also, an in- cision should be made extending from the up- per part of the anterior coronary track obliquely towards the annulus arteriosus, which incision should, in a calf's heart, be a little more than an inch in length and a tenth of an inch in depth. The band should then be detached agreeably to its spiral course from the base and middle third of the left, and from the lower half of the right ventricle, as far as the anterior co- ronary track, the line from which the separation commenced. It here receives on its posterior surface a considerable accession of fibres from the right surface of the septum, by the junction of which this part of the boundary of the ven- tricle is formed, but the further separation of the band prevented. In fig. 281, in the first or basial part of its course it is indistinctly seen, marked Cacc In fig. 282 its middle course may be traced, although the half circle of the band which wound round the left ventricle has been cut off. In the preparation exhibited in this figure the separation of this band could not be effected under the posterior coronary track, on account of the separation having been con- ducted too deeply, where the fibres decussate to form the posterior boundary of the right ven- tricle. In fig. 281, which exhibits a dissection of the right ventricle of a bullock's heart, the whole of the band, Cacc, is separated as far as the anterior boundary of this cavity, and lies extended; and the accession of fibres it re- ceives from the right surface of the septum are seen prolonged into it. The basial band crosses the upper half of this ventricle. It cannot be raised from its situation on account of the numerous lateral connexions it forms in its progress with the margins of the orifices of the aorta, pulmonary artery, and annulus venosus. In order to de- tach it as far as it will admit, an incision about half an inch on the right side of and parallel with the anterior coronary track, should be made, extending from its lower edge to the base, and an eighth of an inch in depth, or as deep as will expose the fibres from the pulmo- nary artery, which in general pass at an angle with those of the band. Although this band cannot be disconnected from the base, it can in general be detached from the fibres of the sub- jacent layer, so far as the posterior coronary track; sometimes, however, they are too inter- woven to admit of any separation. The first part of this band is represented in fig. 281, marked Cpcaa; it was divided more than half an inch from the anterior coronary track. Its continuation may be seen in fig. 2B2, lettered Cpcaaa, where it is evidently not discon- nected from, but merely raised towards the base, and if replaced would overlap the fibres taking the middle course round the heart. The depression at the line of the posterior coro- nary track, pet, is occasioned by the band being bound down at the base and at its under sur- face also, by which means the upper half of the posterior boundary of this ventricle is formed. As the further pursuit of this band pertains to the third stage, it will be made hereafter. The internal layer. By the separation of the two former bands the internal layer is ex- posed. It is composed of fibres from the pul- monary artery and from one of the carneaj co- lumnae. In fig. 281 the fibres, pc, are seen arising from the root of the pulmonary artery at its entire circumference, first forming a channel and then expanding into a layer, which, in pro- ceeding obliquely across the cavity, obtains an accession of fibres from one of the carneaj co- lumna;, which is not brought into view, and which, on reaching the line of the posterior