DIGESTIVE CANAL. 28 which are superadded to these as we ascend in the scale either form an extension of the nutri- tive apparatus, or are destined to regulate the kind of food admitted into the alimentary cavity. An animal, in the abstract, may almost be viewed as a moving sac, organized to con- vert foreign matter into its own likeness, and all the complex organs of animal life are but auxiliaries to this primitive digestive bag. The bones and other hard parts which form the solid frame-work of the body connected toge- ther by their various ligaments serve only as firm levers to enable the active organs, the muscles, to carry it to and fro, and the ner- vous system with its various organs of sense serve but to direct its motions in quest of food. Nature has placed the unorganized food of plants on the exterior of their body, and their vessels are sent there to seek it, which roots them through life to a fixed point; but animals place their food in their stomach and have their roots directed inwards and towards that central reservoir, so that they can move about and select what is most congenial to their nature. The organs of animal life relate to this diffe- rence between the two organized kingdoms— to this locomotion of animals and their power of selecting their food; but the organs of vege- tative life of which the alimentary canal is the first, relate merely to the assimilation of food when already within the body, and are there- fore common to animals with plants. The digestive surface of the plant is the surface of its root, ramified and fixed in the soil, which affords it a never-failing supply of food; so that the vegetable is like an animal with its stomach turned inside out. The organs of relation are necessarily connected with the varied circumstances in which animals are placed, and are remarkable for their variable character, and even for their inconstancy in the lower tribes, where they are often entirely want- ing; but those of vegetative or organic life are more regular and constant in their character, and indeed no organ is more universal among animals than that internal digestive cavity by which they differ so much from the species of the vegetable kingdom. This primitive sac is but a development or a continuation of the mucous surface of the skin, which extends into the homogeneous cellular tissue of the body, or completely through it; and although, in the simplest conditions of animals, it per- forms alone all the assimilative functions, we find it, as we ascend in the scale, giving origin to various other systems to which distinct parts of the complex function of assimilation are entrusted. Thus the peripheral mode of nutri- tion of the plant passes insensibly into the central internal mode of the animal, and all the organs of organic life, whether they open into the digestive cavity within, or on the surface of the body without, may be considered as originating from the skin, which is itself only a portion of the primitive cellular tissue of the body, here modified by the contact of the sur- rounding element so as to assume the character of a mucous membrane. As the various tubular prolongations become more and more developed and isolated from this primitive source, they assume properties more and more peculiar, and thus form the numerous glandular appara- tus and vascular systems. An internal digestive cavity, the first element of all the organs subservient to individual nutrition, is observed in every class of animals and almost in every genus; and where this part has not yet been perceived, there can be little doubt, from analogy, of its existence. Its form and structure vary according to the kind of food on which the various tribes of animals are destined to subsist, and the extent of elabo- ration it requires to undergo to assimilate it to the animal's body; so that the diversities of this first part of the digestive apparatus are intimately related to all the living habits of animals, and to all the peculiarities they pre- sent in their other assimilative organs and in their organs of relation. 1. Polj/gastrica. In the monads a digestive apparatus is distinctly seen, and in almost all the other genera of animalcules, where, indeed, the internal cavities connected with this im- portant function are so numerous in almost all the known forms of these animals that this lowest class of animals has been termed poly- gastrica to express their common character. From the transparency of these minute animals, their digestive sacs appear, when empty or when filled with water, like portions of the common cellular substance of the body, or like animalcules which have been swallowed, or like internal gemmules; and from not being generally recognized as alimentary cavities, many observers were led to suppose that the animalcules are nourished solely by superficial absorption like marine plants. Leuwenhoeck, however, not doubting that they possessed a sto- mach, believed that they devour each other; this was observed also by Ellis, and Spallanzani main- tained that they devour each other so voraciously that they are seen to become distended with this food. Goeze saw the trichoda seizing and swallowing the animalcules which were smaller than itself. Baron Gleichen, in order to dis- cover the form of their internal digestive cavi- ties, placed them in infusions coloured with carmine which they soon swallowed, and in his coloured plates he has represented this red colouring matter as filling the internal stomachs of numerous tricliodte, vorticella;, and other animalcules. Indeed those internal globular cavities of animalcules are represented in the plates of Miiller, Bruguiere, and all the older writers on this class. But Ehrenberg, by adopting the plan of Gleichen and Trembley of employing opaque colouring matter to detect the forms of these internal cavities, and by using principally carmine, sap-green, and indigo, carefully freed from all impurities which might prevent their being swallowed, has succeeded better than all his predecessors in unfolding the structure of the digestive organs of animal- cules. Such coloured organic matter diffused as fine particles mechanically suspended in the water in which animalcules are placed, is readily swallowed by them, and renders visible through their transparent bodies the form and