554 ORGAN OF HEARING. Nerves of the accessory parts of the apparatus of hearing. Nerves of the tympanum.—The tympanum receives nerves from different sources—from the fifth, the seventh, eighth, and ninth pairs of cerebral nerves. Moreover, its nerves have communication with the sympathetic system. The facial nerve or portio dura of the seventh pair rises from the brain by two roots, which unite together in the meatus auditorius inter- nus, but before uniting, the smaller root sends off'a delicate filament, which forms a commu- nication, as has been mentioned, with the au- ditory nerve. This communication, first pointed out by Swan, has recently been very fully in- vestigated by Arnold. According to the latter, in the middle or at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, one or several delicate fila- ments go oft" from the smaller branch of the facial, and join the auditory nerve. After this the facial nerve enters the aqueduct of Fallo- pius, and issues from the cranium through the stylo-mastoid hole. In this course it receives, at the place where it forms the knee-like bend into the aqueduct of Fallopius, the superior branch of the Vidian or superficial petrosal nerve, neivus petrosus superficialis, s. major. The superficial petrosal nerve comes ofF, along with the inferior branch of the Vidian or deep petrosal nerve, from the posterior part of the spheno-palatine ganglion or ganglion of Meckel. Leaving the deep petrosal nerve at the posterior orifice of the Vidian canal, the superficial petrosal proceeds upwards through the cartilaginous substance in the foramen lace- rum medium, and then runs backwards in the groove on the anterior surface of the petrous bone leading to the hiatus of Fallopius. Having entered the latter, it joins the facial nerve, and forms, with its external fasciculi, a gangliform swelling, intumescentia ganglifor- mis nei-vi facialis, of a grayish appearance and soft consistence. From this swelling a filament arises by one or two roots, and runs backwards into the in- ternal auditory passage to join the upper por- tion of the auditory nerve, where the first fila- ment joined, and forms with it a small reddish gray elevation, known to and delineated by Scarpa. Another branch, which arises from the gan- glionic swelling, is the chorda tympani. The chorda tympani thus in reality derives its origin both from the facial and the superficial petrosal nerves. The chorda tympani accompanies the facial nerve along the aqueduct of Fallopius till within a little of the exit of the latter by the stylo-mastoid hole. The chorda tympani then leaves the facial nerve at an acute angle, and proceeds upwards in a proper canal in the bone, enters the cavity of the tympanum by the opening just within the posterior part of the groove for the membrana tympani already de- scribed. From this opening it proceeds for- wards between the long process of the incus and the handle of the malleus, to the fissure of Glasser, through the canal beside which, already described, it makes its exit from the cavity of the tympanum. It then descends by the inner side of the ascending ramus of the lower jaw, and joins at an acute angle the lingual nerve. In its passage across the cavity of the tympa- num, the chorda tympani anastomoses by one or several filaments with the nerve which the fifth pair sends to the membrana tympani. Fig. 259. The membrana tympani from within, and the course of the chorda tympani across the tympanum, together with the connexions of the malleus and incus (magni- fied ). ( From SoemmerritigJ. a. Membrana tympani; b. handle of the malleus and tendon of the internus mallei cut near its in- sertion ; c, c. the chorda tympani. To return to the facial nerve. It gives off, a little below the pyramid, a branch to the sta- pedius muscle. The pneumogastric nerve, in its passage through the base of the skull, forms a small ganglion, from which springs a nerve which goes to the ear, ramus auricularis nervi vagi. This nerve is joined by a filament from the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal; it then runs, according to Arnold, in a groove in the jugular fossa, and at last arrives at the aqueduct of Fallopius. Here it divides into three branches, the smallest of which runs up- wards in the aqueduct of Fallopius towards the origin of the facial nerve, and unites with it; the second branch, which is somewhat larger, runs downwards, and also anastomoses with the facial. The third and most considera- ble branch will be noticed along with the nerves of the auricle and auditory passage. The nervous anastomosis in the tympanum.— The principal nerve of this anastomosis is the nerve of Jacobson, or tympanic nerve of Arnold. The tympanic nerve, nervus tympanicus, ex- tends between the petrous ganglion of the glosso- pharyngeal nerve and the otic ganglion or gan- glion of Arnold. To follow it from the glosso- pharyngeal, we find it arises from the upper part of the petrous ganglion, along with another filament, which goes to communicate with the ganglion cervicale supremum, and also with the pneumogastric. The tympanic nerve enters, by the tympanic canal already described, the cavity of the tympanum. Here the nerve ap- pears near the anterior margin of the fenestra rotunda, traverses the groove on the promon- tory, arrives in front of the vestibular fenestra, then enters the proper osseous canal, into which the groove on the promontory is continued su-