INSECTA. 884 bones in man. An instance of this occurs in the upper surface of the cranium of every insect, in the union of the clypeus posterior with the epicranium. In another duplicature, one sur- face of which is rendered concave, and the cor- responding one opposed to it convex, and allowing of motion between them almost wholly in one plane, we perceive the true gingli/moid or hinge-like articulation; while the small intervening portion of tegument, by means of which the margins of these surfaces are connected, becomes thinned and atrophied, and forms their proper connecting ligament. Instances of this kind of articulation occur also in the head of most insects in the articulation of the mandibles with the cranium, as well as in the limbs of almost every species. Again, when a portion of the tegument which covers the developing organs of locomotion becomes constricted at the base of the organ, that surface of the duplicature which is nearest the body forms a hollow or cup-shaped cavity, into which the other surface of the duplicature, rendered convex, is inserted, and in this way a true enarthrodial or cotyloid articulation is developed, the connecting ligament between the two surfaces forming the internal ligament of the joint, which is thus rendered capable of most extensive rotation. The ligament thus formed in every instance is hollow, to allow a passage for the muscles and other structures of the limb. Examples of this kind of articu- lation occur in the coxas or basial joints of the legs, in the Cerambt/cida and Curculionidte. Lastly, where the tegument is simply reflected upon itself, and a sliding motion allowed of, we have the simple squamous articulation. In all cases the development of one portion of tegu- ment takes place at the expense of another, as in the development of the segments themselves, and not by the introduction of a new element in the composition of the part. In this manner, in accordance with the law of centripetal deve- lopment as pointed out by M. Serres in the vertebrated classes, every part of the body is formed in the so-called in vertebrated. We thus recognise four distinct kinds of articulation, although several more have been described by Straus-Durckheim in his excellent work on Melolontha,* but all of them appear to be reducible to these primary ones. These principles will enable us to understand the cause of the presence or absence of those structures which form the internal skeleton, and also the manner in which the limbs of the imago are developed from the soft and uniform body of the naked larva. They may also tend to elucidate one of those hidden and mysterious processes of nature by which the exterior orga- nization of the queenor female inmate of the hive is caused so materially to differ from that of the so-called neuter or sterile female, influenced as it is said to be in its whole system by the diffe- rent quality of the food supplied to the larva during the first few hours of its existence. According to the investigations of the most careful observers, Savigny, Audouin, Mac- * Considerations, &c. p. 48 et seq. leay, Kirby, Carus, Straus-Durckheim, New- man, and others, every segment of the perfect insect is made up of distinct parts, not always separable from each other or developed to the same extent, but existing primarily in all. It is also believed that the head itself is formed of two or more segments, but the exact number which enter into its composition is yet a ques- tion. So uncertain are the opinions held upon this subject, that while Burmeister recognizes only two segments, Carus and Audouin believe there are three, Macleay and Newman four, and Straus-Durckheim, even so many as seven. These different conclusions of the most able in- vestigators appear to have arisen chiefly from too exclusive examinations of the head in perfect insects, without reference to the corresponding parts in the larvae. It is only by comparing the distinctly indicated parts of the head in the per- fect insect with similar ones in the larva that we can hope to ascertain the exact number of seg- ments of which it is composed. In the head of the perfect insect there ought to be found some traces of all the segments which exist in the' larva? of the same species, and in that of the more perfectly developed larvaa that undergo a true metamorphosis, there ought in like manner to be found the rudiments of all the segments in the least perfectly developed. Now the com- mon larva of the Dipterous insect, the maggot of the flesh-fly, is one of the lowest forms we have yet examined, and we have already seen that its head appears to be formed of four, and perhaps even of five segments. This is the greatest number yet noticed in the head of the larva of any species. If, therefore, we can trace the like number in the head of a perfect insect, we may fairly conclude that this is the normal number of segments throughout the class. The head of the great water-beetle, Hydrous piceus, is remarkably well-fitted for exemplifying the number of segments of which the head is originally composed, the remains of four of the segments being distinctly marked; and it also affords us a proof of the correctness of the opinions advanced by Savigny and others, that the organs of manducation are the proper articulated members of distinct segments, and are perfectly analogous to the proper organs of locomotion. We shall first describe the parts of which the head is composed, and then endeavour to explain the manner in which these parts have been developed from separate segments to form the perfect cranium and its appendages. It has hitherto been customary with naturalists to designate the head the first segment of the body, and as every change in the nomenclature of a distinct part ought always to be avoided, unless positively required, through fear of creating confusion, we shall not deviate on the present occasion from the established mode, but when speaking of it as a whole shall con- sider it the first segment, while the aggregation of segments of which it is composed we shall designate individually sub-segments, distin- guishing them numerically in the order in which they appear to exist in the earliest con- dition of the foetal larva.