927 INSECTA. The anterior margin is that portion which is situated anteriorly upon its expansion in flight, extending from its base to its distinctly visible extremity of the costal nervure, a little beyond the marginal cell; at its termination the apical 'margin commences, and extends to the sinus of the wing, which is the incision at the apex of the posterior margin, which latter extends from this sinus back to the base, and it is by this margin that the upper and under wings are connected in flight. The costal nervure is the first longitudinal nervure of the wing (Jig. 393, a), and, as we have seen, extends Fig. 393. Wing of Hymenopterous insect (Shuchwd). a, costal nervure; d, post-costal; S, stigma; e, externo medial; f, anal; </, transverso-medial; 1, costal cell; 2, medial; 3, interno-medial ; 4, anal ; h, radial nervure; 5, marginal cell; 6, cubital nervure. upon the anterior margin to just beyond the extremity of the marginal cell. The second longitudinal nervure is the post-costal (d); this extends to the stigma (s), which is that thick- ened point or spot upon the wing placed upon its anterior margin at about two-thirds the dis- tance of its base and extreme apex, and ap- pears to me to be a dilatation of the costal nervure. The third longitudinal nervure is the externo-medial (e), which proceeds in a direct line nearly parallel with the preceding for a little more than half the length of the post- costal, or about one-third of the entire length of the wing, and then leads off at an obtuse angle to join the post-costal just before its junction with the stigma. The anal (f) is the fourth longitudinal nervure, which also extends from the base to the sinus at the apical ex- tremity of its posterior margin : a transverse nervure unites the externo-medial and anal, and which I purpose calling the transverso- medial (g). These nervures, which I consider the primary nervures of the wing, severally inclose what have hitherto been called collec- tively the basal or humeral cells, but to which I purpose applying different names (derived from the nervures which inclose them), that they may be more readily distinguished from each other. The first, or that very narrow one between the costal and post-costal nervures, is the costal cell (1); the second is that placed between the post-costal and externo-medial nervures, and which I call the externo-medial cell (2): that inclosed between the externo- medial and anal nervures parallelly, and ter- minated at its apex by the transverso-medial, is the interno-medial cell (3); and the cell seated between the anal nervure and the pos- terior margin of the wing is the anal cell (4). " From the interior margin of the stigma arises the radial nervure (/t), which makes a curve and then joins the costal upon the mar- gin of the wing: the lanceolate space thus in- closed forms what is called the radial or mar- ginal cell (5). The cubital nervure (6) is nearly parallel with the radial and originates from the externo-medial near its junction with the post-costal; this extends to the apical margin of the wing just below its extreme apex (6 i). The space thus inclosed is divided by three transverse nervures, which I propose calling the transverso-cubitals (m, m, m, m), inclosing as many spaces forming so many cubital or sub-marginal cells, a fourth being formed in consequence of the nervure extend- ing to and joining the apical margin (g). The third nervure, originating from the primary nervures of the wing, is what I call thedis- coidal nervure (/(), (it is from this that I anti- cipate the chief results), and which, commenc- ing at the transverso-medial, extends in a di- rect line to the disc of the wing directly be- tween the stigma and the sinus, when it makes a sudden curve at a right angle backwards and joins the anal nervure close to the sinus (I:). From this discoidal nervure at the centre of its apical return another springs, forming what I call the sub-discoidal nervure (/), and which here extends to the posterior margin of the wing. From the cubital nervure two others originate; these are called the recurrent ner- vures, the first of which always inosculates at the angle of the discoidal nervure, and the second just beyond the centre of the sub- discoidal. By the reticulation of these four nervures several cells are formed upon the disc of the wing; the first of these, which is in- closed between the discoidal and anal nervures, I call the first discoidal cell, (10). The second is that placed between the externo-medial cubi- tal, first recurrent, and discoidal nervures (11). The third discoidal cell is that inclosed by the second recurrent, sub-discoidal, discoidal, and first recurrent nervures (12). The space in- closed between the second recurrent, sub-dis- coidal, and cubital nervures, and the pical mar- gin of the wing, forms the first apical, cell (13), and there is a second only when the sub-dis- coidal nervure extends to the apical margin, by which and a portion of the discoidal cell it is inclosed." The distribution of the nervures in the wings of the males of some of the Orthoptera affords some curious peculiarities, by which the pteri- gostia become instrumental in the production of sounds. At the base of the superior pair of wings in Acrida, at the inner angle of each wing, is an oval or nearly circular space (fig. 394, a), in which the membrane is more transparent and free from ramifications of ner- vures than in any other part of the wing. These spaces have long been known to be con- nected with the production of sound. The membrane itself appears to be thinner than in other places, and more tense, and the nervures by which it is inclosed are thick and strong,