860 INSECTA. this division, the Cicindelida, are extremely voracious, and most of them feed upon dead animal substances, although some of the Hur- palida are known to be vegetable feeders. The second sub-tribe, Hydradephaga, includes the predaceous water-beetles, and the third, Philhydrida, a variety of families allied to each other by similarity in general structure, by inhabiting water or damp situations, and by subsisting upon decaying animal and vegetable substances, fungi, &c. Amongst the aquatic species is one of the largest British beetles, Hydrous piceus (Jig. 330). Fig. 330. Hydrous piceus, ( Great water-beetle, male.) All the water-beetles are characterized by their four posterior legs being formed peculiarly for swimming; they are ciliated along the tarsal joints, the last of which is furnished with a very minute claw. The insects of the third sub-tribe, the predaceous water-beetles, Dyti- cit&e, are distinguished from those of the second by the latter having long and slender instead of clavated antennae, and by their possessing six instead of only four palpi. The males of both sub-tribes have one or more joints of their anterior tarsi (Jig. 330, A.) very much dilated, by means of which they attach themselves strongly to the females. Their larva are active Fig. 331. and voracious. The fourth sub-tribe, Necro- p/taga, includes the carrion and burying-beetles (Jig. 331), so called from their habit of bury- ing small dead animals in the ground, by digging away the earth from beneath them, and thus allowing them to sink down, and then depositing their eggs in the bodies. The genera of this division differ considerably from each other, but may be characterized as in general possessing abruptly clavated antennas, an oval or oblong body, with the elytra often truncated, and the legs strong and formed for running. The second section is also divided into four tribes, which include insects of different habits and conformation. In the first tribe, Helocera, the insects are of an oval shape, and have the antennas geni- culated, and terminated by an oval club. Their legs are flattened, broad, and formed for burrowing, and are terminated by very minute tarsi. Their bodies are exceedingly hard ; they feed upon decaying animal matter, and when touched simulate the appearance of death. The second tribe, Lamellicornes, are a very natural group. They are distinguished by the club of the antennae being divided into plates or lamellae. Their legs are thick, strong, and deeply notched, and the tarsi of the anterior pair in some families are very minute. They are either stercoraceous or vegetable feeders, subsisting, like the common dung-beetle, Geo- trupes stercorarius* (Jig. 332), upon deeom- Fig. 332. Necropltorus vespillo, ( Burying-beetkJ. Geotrupes stercorarius, ( Dung-beetle). posing vegetable substances, or like the chaffer- beetles, Melolonthidcc, upon the foliage of shrubs or trees, or like the Dynastidisf * This drawing is of a specimen captured by the writer of the present article in the summer of 1829, and affords a curious instance of malformation of the anterior extremities with the tibias lunated and acuminated, without dentations, the tarsi entirely wanting. It is now in the cabinet of the Rev. F. W. Hope. t It is asserted that the Dyttastes Hercules grasps