FOURTH PAIR OF NERVES. nator radii brevis, to its inner the extensor primi internodii pollicis. It is covered posteriorly by the extensor communis digitorum and extensor carpi ulnaris. Gliding downwards and out- wards from beneath these muscles and becoming tendinous on its under surface, it slips over the lower third of the posterior face of the radius, and then running in a groove on the outer side of that bone, common to it and the next men- tioned muscle, is ultimately inserted into the metacarpal bone of the thumb. The action of this muscle is to extend the metacarpal bone of the thumb, which corre- sponds as regards its capacity for motion, with the phalanges of the fingers. 3. Extensor primi internodii (extensor minor pollicis munus, Scemm.; cubito sus- phalangettien du police, Chauss.) is a very small muscle compared with the last, though varying much in size in different subjects. It lies between the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the extensor secundi internodii, passing through the same groove in the radius as the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, it becomes inserted into the first phalanx of the thumb. 4. The extensor secundi internodii pollicis (extensor major pollicis munus, Scemm.; cubito sus-phalangettien du pouce, Chauss.)—This muscle is usually larger than the former; it arises fleshy from the ulna and interosseous ligament; becoming tendinous in its centre, it presents the same penniform appearance referred to above. The groove in the radius which is narrow and deep, this tendon alone being lodged in it. It is situated between that for the two radial extensors and the broad and hollow one for the common extensors and indicator. Crossing on the back of the wrist the radial extensors it is finally inserted into the second phalanx of the thumb. This mus- cle is entirely covered in the fore-arm by the common extensors of the fingers. 5. The indicator (cubito sus-phalangettien de I'index) occupies the remaining portion of the posterior interosseal space. Like the three last described muscles it is penniform, and arises fleshy from the ulna and interosseous ligament, it descends to the hand and passes through the same groove at the back of the radius as that of the extensor communis digi- torum, it is inserted into the posterior surface of the three phalanges of the index finger. This muscle is entirely concealed by the exten- sor carpi ulnaris and extensor communis digi- torum. The names of this and the two preceding muscles indicate their actions. For Bin-iocbaphy, see Anatomy, (Intro- duction.) (Samuel Solly.) FOURTH PAIR OF NERVES (nervus trochleuris, s. patheticus).—The fourth pair is the most slender of the encephalic nerves. They are intermediate in the 'Order of succession to the third or motor oculiand the fifth nerves, and hence the name. Each nerve is attached at its encephalic extremity to the lateral part of the superior surface of the anterior medullary velum or valve of Vieussens, immediately behind the testes or the posterior of the tubercula quadrigemina. It is divided at its attachment, for the most part, into two roots, inserted at a little distance from each other, one close to the testes, the other posterior to it. Occasionally it has but one root and sometimes even three. Gall and Spurzheim* are of opinion that the nerve might be traced to a more remote point, and according to Mayof " its fibrils appear to pass through the filaments of the pillar of the valve, and in part to arise from the back part of the medulla oblongata." The nerve is concealed at its insertion by the superior vermiform process of the cerebellum, and it is not immediately provided with neu- rilemma, and hence, as also because of its delicacy, it is very easily broken off. Its course within the cranium is circuitous and long, longer than that of the other nerves. It passes outward, downward, and forward: it first descends external to the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (the processus a cerebello ad testes), between it and the vermiform process, then becomes invested with arachnoid mem- brane and free, and runs round the lateral part of the crus cerebri, above the superior margin of the pons Varolii, and beneath the free edge of the tentorium cerebelli, until it reaches the posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone; it then enters the outer wall of the cavernous sinus between the points of attachment of the tentorium, and is transmitted through a canal in the dura mater, by which the wall is formed, forward to the foramen lacerum of the orbit. It does not enter the sinus, being contained in a canal in its outer wall. At the posterior part of the sinus the nerve is situate beneath the third, between it and the first division of the fifth nerve; but at the anterior, and as they are about to pass into the orbit, the fourth and frontal branch of the fifth are both above the third, the fourth internal and a little superior to the frontal. The nerve lastly enters the orbit through the superior part of the foramen lacerum in com- pany with the frontal, above the levator palpebral muscle, and immediately beneath the roof of the region. Having entered, it runs forward and inward, gains the surface of the superior oblique muscle, and attaching itself to it upon its superior aspect, about its middle, it divides into filaments, which are all distributed to the muscle. The fourth nerve does not give off any branch during its course to the oblique muscle, unless, at times, first a filamentdescnbed by Cruveilhier, and, according to him,distributed to the tentorium cerebelli. This filament arises from the nerve while traversing the wall of the cavernous sinus, runs backward into the substance of the ten- torium, and divides into two or three branches: Cruveilhier calls it " the branch of the tento- rium." Secondly, according to both Swan and Cruveilhier, the fourth nerve gives off a fila- * Anatomie Ju Systeme nerveux. f Physiology.