ABNORMAL CONDITION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 75 fore-arm, the head of the radius is permitted to pass backwards, somewhat behind its na- tural situation ; but as soon as the effort ceases, the radius resumes its natural position in the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. A true lux- ation in these cases cannot be said to happen, unless the effort of pronation is sufficient to bring the superior extremity of the radius behind the small head of the humerus; when- ever this has occurred, then the sub-luxation is converted into the complete luxation of the radius backwards, and presents all the cha- racters of this accident, and it cannot be re- placed without the assistance of art. It is known to anatomists that the radio-cubital joint is not advanced much in its development in infants ; that the lesser sigmoid cavity is as yet small and shallow; and that the coronary ligament of the radius is proportionally longer and more yielding than it is destined to be in after life. This articulation, however, is fully equal, even at this earliest period of life, to sustain any efforts that its own pronator muscles can communicate to it; but it is by no means constructed so as to be able to resist those forced movements of pronation and stretching we see too frequently given to the fore-arms of infants of a tender age, by their attendants, who in lifting them from the ground usually seize them by the fore-arms, these being at the time in a full state of pro- nation. Thus we find that in delicate children the foundation is laid for that elongation of the coronary ligament, which ends in the con- dition of this joint we have denominated sub- luxation. We have usually observed that the subjects of this affection were delicate from their youth, and that sometimes only one, and that frequently both arms were affected; that in all cases the extremity was more or less deformed, having a bowed appearance, the convexity being external; that a very evident protuberance could be seen and felt in the situation of the head of the radius ; and that the patient had nearly perfect use of the arm, although he could neither fully flex nor extend it. When the surgeon places his thumb on the external condyle of the humerus and head of the radius in one of these cases, and at the same time has the fore-arm supinated, the head of the radius is felt to rotate in its proper place, and on its axis, as in its perfect condition ; but if now a forced movement of pronation be given to the head of the radius, the latter will be observed to slip backwards towards the olecranon process : every time the patient him- self fully pronates the fore-arm, the sub-lux- ation occurs, and in supination the radius resumes its place again. This relaxation of the ligaments of the radio-cubital joint, no matter how produced, at all events predisposes those affected with it to the more complete luxation of the radius backwards. e. Congenital or original luxation of the superior extremity of the radius backward,^— Dupuytren is the first pathologist who has spoken of the congenital luxation of the radius; he met with a case of the kind in dissection, and described it in his lectures. He found that the superior extremity of each radius had abandoned its natural situation, and was found situated behind the inferior extremity of the humerus, having passed this extremity an inch at least. This disposition being absolutely the same on each side of the body, there existed no difference between these two luxations, which were probably conge- nital. It is also stated that Dupuytren had mentioned that about twenty or twenty-five years before he dissected the case now alluded to, he had seen a case nearly similar, but he was unwilling to speak positively on these cases, as the history was unknown, and acci- dent or disease might have produced similar results. Cruveilhier, in his very valuable work on Pathological Anatomy, quotes the above ob- servations from Dupuytren's lectures, and seems to disagree entirely with the celebrated surgeon of the Hotel-Dieu, advancing it as his opinion, that it vvould be much more na- tural to suppose that the cases described by Dupuytren were not congenital, but rather very old luxations, a long time left unre- duced. It is very true that Dupuytren speaks with hesitation about the matter, as he appears to have met with but two cases, nor can any one speak with certainty on this subject, until ob- servation on the living, and anatomical in- vestigations, shall be combined to elucidate the matter; but we think that already enough can be adduced to shew, that we have strong grounds for believing that such a congenital defect as luxation of the upper extremity of the radius backwards may be occasionally met with, and this is an opinion we think our- selves authorised to advance, because of the facts and reasons we can adduce to support it. In the Museum of the Royal College of Sur- geons in Ireland, there is a specimen, which the writer considers to be one of congenital lux- ation of the upper extremity of the left radius backwards; fig. 44 is a representation of it. The outer condyle of the humerus exists, but in front of it there is no rounded head or capitulum for the radius, or any trace of the usual convex articular surface ever having existed. The coronoid process and great sig- moid cavity of the ulna are unusually large transversely, and stretch almost the whole way across the lower articular extremity of the humerus, which is entirely formed into one single trochlea wider than natural. The head of the radius, which seems never to have been adequately developed, is situated behind the plane of the outer condyle of the humerus. The tubercle of the radius is much enlarged, and leans against the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, while the neck of the radius, directed somewhat backward, is twice its natural length, and instead of reaching merely to the level of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, stretches as high up along the ulna as to reach near to the level of the summit of the olecranon pro- cess, while the carpal extremities of the radius