GENERATION. 439 the surface of the body ; but a more suitable arrangement of these organs in a functional point of view is that which is founded on the part which each of them is destined to perform in the generative act. The male organs consist •of the penis and urethra, testicles, seminal vesi- cles, seminal ducts, prostatic body,and Cowper's glands: the female organs, of the vulva,clitoris and nymphas, vagina, uterus, Fallopian tubes, and ovaries. The testicles in the male and the ovaries in the female are the productive organs, secreting or forming by an organic process the product of each respective sex ; the vasa defe- rentia and vesiculae seminales conduct and retain for a time the seminal fluid; the Fallo- pian tubes conduct downwards the ovum from the ovary to the uterus; the uterus receives and retains the ovum during pregnancy or the formation of the child. These constitute the internal organs; the remaining parts are the external organs, and are chiefly connected with sexual union or the expulsion of the products from the body. The glans penis, the clitoris, and the neighbouring parts are the seat of that feeling which accompanies the venereal act: the penis, with its urethra, serves to conduct the seminal fluid into the vagina and uterus of the female : the vagina, besides receiving the seminal fluid, is the issue for the child when it is expelled from the uterus in parturition. Puberty.—It is only during a stated period of life that animals are capable of reproduction. In infancy, youth, and old age the functions of the sexual organs are in abeyance. The name of puberty is given to that period of life at which either sex first becomes capable of re- production, at which time various important structural and functional changes occur both in the sexual organs and in the whole eco- nomy. These changes are upon the whole more marked in the female than in the male, a cir- cumstance which may be attributed to the longer and more intimate connexion of the female with the product; the maternal parent affording a supply of nourishment to the child during the whole of its intra-uterine life, while the male does no more than furnish momenta- rily a small quantity of the seminal fluid necessary for fecundation. Structural differences of the sexes.—In in- fancy and youth the two sexes do not differ materially in the general shape of the body, nor in physical powers; but as the age of puberty approaches, and the sexual organs undergo those changes which fit them for the performance of their appropriate functions, the male and female bodies become altered in form, and acquire a more marked difference, while the mental and physical powers also par- take of this discrepancy. We shall do no more than mention here the most striking of these peculiarities, as a more detailed account of them belongs to another place. Besides these differences which belong im- mediately to the sexual conformation, the com- paratively broader shoulders and wider chest of the male, and the larger pelvis and ab- domen of the female, are universally known as constituting the chief peculiarities in the general contour of the body. The smaller size of the whole body in the female, amounting in general to a tenth of the whole height, the greater slenderness of the female frame, the less prominence of the muscles, the more tapering and rounded shape of the limbs, the greater quantity of fat under the skin and elsewhere, the smaller, smoother, and finer bones, and the more delicate texture of some other parts of the body, are all peculiarities of female conformation contrasting with the opposite qualities in the male body. As belonging to the male may be mentioned the low and rough voice from the larger size of the larynx and longer vocal cords,* the occurrence of hair on the chin, upper lip, and cheeks, as well as over the body and limbs, in which situations it is rarely met with in the female, the greater physical power and activity, capa- bility of enduring fatigue and daring, &c. As these changes in either sex are gradually developed, hair grows on the skin covering the symphysis pubis, in the neighbourhood of the genital organs,f and later under the axillae. The local changes attendant upon puberty in the male are the enlargement of the penis, its more frequent erection, and accompaniment of this by the sexual feeling ; the enlargement of the testicles, vesicute seminales, prostatic gland, and other accessory parts; the more depending condition of the testicles in the scrotum ; the secretion of a certain quantity of the seminal and prostatic fluids; and, after the attainment of the full sexual powers, the occasional spontaneous emission of some of the seminal fluid, occurring in general at night during sleep, and being accompanied by some sexual feeling in dreams. In the female at this period, both external and internal organs undergo a considerable and rapid enlargement; the mons veneris and external labia become more full; the clitoris and nymphffi in many, but not in all, become susceptible of a certain degree of swelling or erection; the breasts enlarge, the vesicles in the ovaries become dilated, and some of them more prominent, and there is established a periodical discharge of a certain quantity of a sanguineous fluid from the internal genital organs. Menstruation.—This periodical loss of blood demands the attention of the physiologist as one of the most remarkable of the sexual pecu- liarities of the human female, and as bearing an intimate relation not only to the generative process, but to most of the other functions of the economy. The periodical recurrence of the discharge of blood every lunar month or twenty-eight days * Comparative measurements have been made of the length of the vocal cords in boys imme- diately before and alter puberty, and those of the young men have been found to be nearly double the length of those of the boy. f Hence the name of this bone and of the period of life of which we are now speaking—pubes and puberty.