INSECTA. 992 Fig. 438. ft A, lateral view of the sting of the Bee. ( Westwood.) a, the sheath; b, terminal segment of the abdo- men ; c, the barbs or proper sting ; d, the chan- neled surface of the sheath of the sting in which the barbs are concealed. B, the poison-bag and vessels of the sting of the Anthophora retusa ^Newport) ; a. sheath of the sting ; 6, the dilated extremity of the poison duct; c, d, the bag ; e, efferential vessel; f, the secretory organs; g, their vessels. C, terminal segment of the abdomen of a saw-fly, Triclwsoma (Lyonet) ; a, dorsal end of the ter- minal segment; b, sheath of ovipositor or terminal ventral arch ; c, d, the inner plates or saws, analo- gous to the barbs, c, of the sting of the bee. D, one of the double lancet-pointed saws of Athalia centifolice. at the tip in the bees (c) but much broader in the saw-flies (C, c, d) and transversely striated, forming the saws with which these insects are provided: moreover these two pieces are re- ceived in the bees into a canal (A, d), but in the saw-flies this gutter is broad, flattened, and divided into two separated parts, forming the backs of the two saws. In the Ichneumons these various parts are so slender that at the first sight they appear to consist but of a single piece: on more minutely examining the in- strument, however, it will be found that it consists of a scabbard, composed of two pieces, inclosing a fine hair-like bristle, which is, in fact, the exact analogue of the stinging part of the bee's sting, consisting of three pieces." This organ constitutes both a means of defence and also of depositing the eggs. There have been some doubts with regard to this fact in the bees, some having questioned whether the sting is at all employed in oviposition by these in- sects ; but a most careful and accurate ob- server, Dr. Bevan, distinctly states that the ova pass along the sting of the bee lo be de- posited, and this statement is confirmed by the fact that this is certainly the case in the analogous instrument of the saw-flies, as we our- selves have distinctly witnessed in Athalia ce.ntifoliaz. The analogy, therefore, of the sting with the ovipositor of the Gryllidaz, of the saw- flies, and other insects, is distinctly proved. In Athalia the ovipositor is a very interesting organ. It occupies the under surface of the seventh and eighth segment of the body, and is approximated to the posterior margin of the sixth, a part of the seventh having been re- moved. Four tendons for the insertion of muscles originate from the extremity of the two halves of the ovipositor. In the mem- brane that unites on the under surface the two halves of the ovipositor, is situated the vaginal orifice between the two saw-shaped organs (C, c, d, D). Each of these parts is composed of two plates applied together back to back, and which together form a pointed instrument resembling a lancet (D). The upper one of these plates (i) is furnished with small sharp- pointed teeth directed backwards, and the under one (/c) with fourteen long and slightly convex ones. With the point of this instru- ment the insect pierces the edges of the leaves of the turnip, separating the cuticle with its saw preparatory to depositing its egg, which is conveyed along its inner surface, which is slightly concave to allow of its safe transit along the plates. Posteriorly and external to these plates are the two sheaths of the ovipo- sitor (C, b) analogous to one portion of the ovipositor of the Gryllidce. In all those Hy- menoptera furnished with an ovipositor there is also an apparatus for secreting a peculiar fluid, and this apparatus is believed to be analogous to the appendages of the male organs above alluded to, the use of which is not well under- stood. In the female these parts consist of an excretory duct, and bag, or receptacle for the fluid, a convoluted efferential vessel,and proper secretory organs. In the wild bee, Anthophora retusa (B), at the base of the sheath (a) in which the two barbs of the sting (A, e) are concealed, is a smooth dilated space, into which the poison is first received at the base of the sting. The poison is conveyed to this space by the efferential duct (c) from an oval sac (d), in which it is accumulated as secreted, and into which it is poured by a very large and much convoluted efferential vessel (e), which receives the fluid from two coeciform glandular organs (f), which unite as they enter the efferential vessel. These secretory organs receive at their apparently closed extremity each a minute vessel, which we have distinctly traced to some distance from them, but not to its termination. When the poison is ejected from the bag (d) into the base of the sting, it passes along be- tween the two barbs, as in a little gutter, into the wound. Swammerdam delineated these parts in the honey-bee, but did not notice the vessels proceeding from the secretory organs. In another insect of the same class there are similar structures. Thus, in Athalia (Jig.439), the bag (g) is oval, but the efferential vessel is entirely absent, the fluid being poured directly from the secretory vessels (/() into the bag with- out passing along any other tube. The vessel is