83G ILIAC ARTERIES. The perineal artery comes through the obtu- rator fascia, and descends to the perineum, pos- terior to the transverse muscle, though at tunes before it; when it has got below the muscle it changes its direction, and runs forward, up- ward, and inward, superficial to the triangular ligament, toward the root of the scrotum; at this part of its course it is situate along the outer side of the interval which separates the cms penis and the corpus spongiosum urethra?, internal and parallel to the eras, and covered by a superficial lamina of the fascia of the peri- neum, a deeper layer of which intervenes be- tween it and the muscles of the crus and bulb and the triangular ligament; as it proceeds it gives the following branches : 1. outward, one to the integument and subcutaneous structure beneath the anterior part of the tuberosity of the ischium ; 2. inward, one which runs to the interval between the front of the rectum and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum, superficial and parallel to the transverse muscle ; it sup- plies the integument and subcutaneous struc- ture of the perineum, and the common inser- tion of the superficial sphincter, the transverse muscle, the bulbo-cavernous and the levator ani in front of the rectum. This branch is at times furnished by the pudic itself; it is denominated by some " the proper perineal," by others " the transverse perineal." 3. A branch to the bulbo- cavernous ; 4. one to the ischio-cavernous mus- cles. The perineal artery having reached the back of the scrotum sends long branches into the subcutaneous structure and integument of that part, and entering the septum scroti, terminates in it as the " artery of the septum." In the female, the ultimate branches of the artery are distributed to the labia majora. The perineal artery, from its superficial situa- tion, is exposed to be divided on many occa- sions; in lateral lithotomy it may be cut, but for the most part it escapes, its course being external to the line of incision; some of its branches, however, cannot escape, the trans- verse perineal particularly must, as a matter of course, be divided. Having given off the peri- neal artery, the pudic pursues its course, en- closed in the triangular ligament, along the rami of the ischium and pubis, toward the arch of the pubis; arrived under cover of the crus penis, it gives off a considerable branch, des- tined principally for the urethra and the corpus spongiosum, and denominated hence by Chaus- sier " urethro-bulbaire," by Harrison "arteria corporis bulbosi vel spongiosi urethra," but by Boyer and Cloquet " artere transverse;" it is short, runs transversely inward, enclosed in the triangular ligament about a quarter of an inch from its base, but nearer to it externally than internally; at the bulb it divides into two parts, of which one, the smaller, is distributed to the ante-prostatic gland ; the other enters the bulb and ramifies through its vascular struc- ture, being prolonged through it as far as the glans, supplying at the same time the mem- brane of the urethra and its lacuna?; a branch from it passes into the corpus cavernosum, and anastomoses with the artery of that structure. In the female, the branch corresponding to this is distributed to the vascular plexus which sur- rounds the orifice of the vagina. The artery of the bulb is one of much prac- tical importance ; it is liable to be wounded in lithotomy in the act of opening the urethra; this accident is incurred when the canal is opened too high, i. e. too near to the arch of the pubis, or too much from the side rather than from beneath, and in either case is pretty certain to occur; the proceeding by which to avoid both the artery and the bulb itself, is to cut into the urethra as far back, i. e. from the surface, and as far from the arch as the gui- dance of the staff will assure the operator to be safe, the point of the knife being directed as much from below as the interference of the bulb and the lateral line of incision will permit; further, it is the design of the operator to open the canal in the membranous portion and be- hind the bulb; and in order to effect this, the incision should be made as near as may be to the base of the triangular ligament, or, if possi- ble, behind it. If divided, the artery of the bulb may be tied, though not without some difficulty ; it is prevented from retracting by being enc'osed in the triangular ligament, but it is situate deep; its distance from the anterior surface of the ramus of the pubis being about three-fourths of an inch ; its shortness as well as its being concealed by the crus penis and by the bulb with their muscles, and being in the superior angle of the wound, must also increase the difficulty of securing it. The pudic artery having reached the base of the subpubic ligament divides into its two final branches, the artery of the corpus caverno- sum and the dorsal artery of the penis. 3. The artery of the corpus cavernosum arises from the pudic between the crus penis and the ramus of the pubis and immediately enters the crus obliquely; it is prolonged through the vascular tissue of the corpus cavernosum to its extremity, distributing branches to either side, and communicating with that of the other. For the peculiar distribution of the arteries of the corpus cavernosum and spongiosum,accord- ing to Miiller, see the article EhectileTissue. 4. The dorsal artery of the penis, which ap- pears indirection the continuation of the original vessel, comes through the triangular ligament and ascends in front of the subpubic ligament through the angle formed by the crura penis at their junction ; having surmounted the crus it attaches itself to the dorsal aspect of the penis and runs forward upon it on either side of the suspensory ligament parallel to the artery of the other side, and contained together with it, the dorsal vein, and nerves, in the groove formed by the apposition of the crura, internal to the nerve and external to the vein; it is prolonged to the anterior extremity of the corpus cavernosum, where it breaks up into branches, which uniting with those of the other form an arterial zone behind the corona glandis, and sinking into the glans are distributed to its tissue. During their course along the dorsum of the penis the arteries are tortuous, communicate