398 GASTEROPODA. avoid the wound, retreating into his shell, and performing a variety of evolutions to get out of reach. At length, however, the assailant suc- ceeds, and strikes the point of his weapon into the skin of his paramour at any vulnerable point which may be found. The dart is gene- rally broken off by this encounter, sometimes sticking in the skin, but more frequently dropping to the ground. The reptile Cupid having thus exhausted his quiver, becomes in turn the object of a similar attack, exhibiting apparently an equal anxiety to avoid the threat- ening point of the weapon bared against him. At last he receives the love-inspiring wound, and the preliminaries thus completed, each prepares for the completion of their embraces. The other two apertures next dilate, and from one of them issues the long and whip-like penis, unrolling itself like the finger of a glove ; this being fully developed is introduced into the vaginal orifice of the other snail, which in the same manner inserting its penis into the female aperture of the former, both mutually impreg- nate and are impregnated. See fig. 195. Fig. 195. It is difficult to conceive what can be the use of the dart so singularly employed; it would seem to bean instrument for stimulating the sleeping energies of the creatures to a needful pitch of excitement; yet why it should be peculiar to the snail is not obvious, for in the slug and other Mollusca certainly not less apathetic, no such structure has been detected. In Vaginulus (jig. 189) a similar arrange- ment of the principal organs is observable, although some modifications are met with which deserve our notice. No sac of the dart is found in this animal, but a fasciculus of cceca, analogous to the multifid vesicles as far as their structure is concerned, is connected, not with the female apparatus, as in the snail, hut with the male organs. The orifices of the two sexual systems are here separated by a considerable interval, the penis emerging at the side of the neck, near the right superior tentacle at z, while the orifice of the female parts is placed between the cuirass and the mantle, considerably further back. The ovary (m) is similar in structure to that of the snail; and its duct, in like manner, forms many convolutions in the substance of the testicle (/>), from which it issues, much increased in size, to expand into a large membranous re- ceptacle (</), corresponding in function with the tortuous matrix of the Helices; this part of the oviduct is filled with an albuminous fluid, and from it runs the narrower canal (r), which may be regarded as the vagina, and which before its termination communicates with a lateral pouch, identical with what has been called the bladder. The testicle (p) ap- pears to consist of two portions, from which arises the vas deferens (o). On tracing this tube it is seen to divide into two branches, one opening into the bladder (s), an arrangement to which we shall again have occasion to revert, whilst the other runs forward to the root of the penis (w). The latter organ presents two por- tions, a long tubular ccecum (i>), resembling the corresponding part in the snail, and a thick muscular cavity, from which the former arises as a kind of appendage; on opening the thicker portion its interior is seen to be rugose, and to enclose a small body, something like the caput gallinaginis in the human urethra. The multijid vesicles (y) open near the exterior orifice, through which the whole apparatus, by a process of inversion already described, is protruded so as to form the male organ of ex- citement. In many of the Tectibranchiata a remark- able arrangement of the generative organs is found, as the male viscera are divided into two distinct portions, the exciting organ being at one extremity of the body, while the testis is found connected with the female apparatus in a distant part of the system. This will be seen in Doridium Meckelii (fig- 196); the penis (/), seen retracted in the figure, issues from the side of the neck, and has appended to its root a zig-zag tube, inclosed in a mem- branous canal, the nature of which is un- known. Quite detached from these, and placed near the anus, we have the matrix ( f), the testis (g), and the bladder (i), occupying their usual relative position as regards each other, and terminating in the vulva or sac of generation (//). In Aplysia the organ of excitement is found