300 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. he had ascertained by experiment that the fifth nerve was exquisitely sensitive; that it is the source of the sensibility of the parts to which it is distributed, he has also determined, for in allusion to the fifth he says, " if the nerve of this original class be divided, the skin and common substance is deprived of sensibility;"* and " by an experiment made on the 16th of March, it was found that, on cutting the infra-orbitary branch of the fifth on the left side, the sensibility of that side was completely destroyed/'f The experiments of Bell were repeated by Magendie, and a similar result, so far as regards the sentient properties of the fifth, obtained, as mentioned in the Journal de Physiologie, Octobre 1821. A similar result has been obtained also by Mayo in his experiments upon the fifth nerve, as detailed in his Commentaries for August 1822, more than a year after the publication of Bell's paper. In his first experiment the infra-orbital and inferior maxillary branches were divided on either side in an ass, where they emerge from their canals, and the sensibility of the lips seemed to be destroyed : and, in a second experiment, the frontal nerve was divided on one side of the forehead of an ass, when the neighbouring surface appeared to lose its sen- sibility : the same effect was produced by the division of that branch of the fifth which joins the portio dura, inasmuch as the cheek loses sensation upon its division. From these ex- periments Mayo concluded that the facial branches of the fifth are nerves of sensation. The experiments upon the influence of the nerve on sensation have been carried still further by Magendie; he divided the nerves within the cranium, where they lie against the cavernous sinus, and also between the pons Varolii and the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and in both instances he obtained the same result with regard to the sensibility of the parts to which the nerves are distributed, viz. total loss of sensibility on one or both sides of the face, according as one or both nerves were divided ; this extended not only to the integuments as in the former trials, but also to the lining membrane of the nostrils, to the conjunctiva, to the tongue and the interior of the mouth. The effect upon the nostril was so remarkable that the most active effluvia, even those of ammonia and acetic acid, pro- duced no impression upon it: in like manner neither piercing instruments nor ammonia ex- cited any sensation when applied to the con- junctiva, and the tongue was insensible to the action of sapid bodies at its anterior part. From such accumulated evidence but one conclusion can be drawn, viz. that the fifth is the nerve of general and tactile sensation to the face and its cavities, or to the parts upon which it is distributed. With regard to the influence of the fifth nerve upon volition, it has been already stated that Bell had announced it, as one of his regular or symmetrical nerves, to be " a muscular * Philosophical Transactions, 1821, p. 405. f Ibid. p. 417. nerve ordering the voluntary motions." This conclusion with regard to the fifth nerve he adopted in consequence of the following ex- periment, and of the result, which, as he conceived, he obtained from it. " An ass being tied and thrown, the superior maxillary branch of the fifth nerve was exposed. Touching this nerve gave acute pain. It was divided, but no change took place in the motion of the nostril; the cartilages continued to expand regularly in time with the other parts which combine in the act of respiration; but the side of the lip was observed to hang low, and it was dragged to the other side. The same branch of the fifth was divided on the opposite side, and the animal let loose. He could no longer pick up his corn; the power of elevating and projecting the lip, as in gathering food, was lost. To open the lips the animal pressed the mouth against the ground, and at length licked the oats from the ground with his tongue. The loss of motion of the lips in eating was so obvious, that it was thought a useless cruelty to cut the other branches of the fifth." The inference here indicated is obvious, viz. that the motion of the lips in eating depends upon the superior maxillary branches of the fifth pair, so far at least as the distribution of those branches extends; and what he conceived he had thus established with regard to one branch he inferred analogically of the rest. The opinion that the fifth is a muscular nerve as well as one of sensibility Bell also maintains in later writings, and supports by additional experiments : thus, in his Erposition of the Natural System of the Nerves, published in 1824, he says, " to confirm this opinion by experiment, the nerve of the fifth pair was exposed at its root, in an ass, the moment the animal was killed; and on irritating the nerve the muscles of the jaw acted, and the jaw was closed with a snap. On dividing the root of the nerve in a living animal, the jaw fell relaxed." That the fifth is to a certain extent a nerve of voluntary motion is univer- sally admitted, but then a question arises of equal interest and delicacy; of interest for its own nature, and of delicacy because of the personal claims and feelings involved in it. The question is,—it being admitted that the nerve is one of double function, — is such function enjoyed equally by all its branches and by both its portions ; and if otherwise, upon which do they severally depend ? From the extracts quoted it is evident that no dis- tinction in function between the different branches of the nerve was contemplated by Bell at the time the first was written, in 1821, and that he regarded them as being all alike nerves of compound function,—nerves both of voluntary motion and sensation; and, such being the case, either that he had not recognised a difference between the properties of the gan- glionic and the non-ganglionic portions of the nerve, or that he was then not aware of the peculiar distribution of the latter; nor is any express information afforded us upon the subject in his earlier writings, or antecedent to 1823. The conclusion to which he had arrived with