557 ORGAN OF HEARING. III. 1. Development and irregular conditions of the orguyi of hearing. A. Development and irregular conditions of the ear-bulb.—Our knowledge of the early for- mation of the ear-bulb is not very precise. This much we know, that it has quite a separate origin from the rest of the apparatus of hearing. Hence, in the irregular conditions of the organ depending on defective development, there is no constant and necessary relation betwixt the labyrinth and the accessory parts of the ear; for the latter may be imperfect while the former is in its natural state, and vice versa. In many cases, however, it has been found that imper- fect development of the one attended an irre- gular condition of the other. The earlier a part is formed the fewer deviations it is subject to, so a greater number of malformations affect the accessory parts than the ear-bulb, as the former are developed subsequent to the latter. The development of the ear-bulb commences very early, soon after the appearance of the eye. It takes place by the springing forth of the auditory nerve in the form of a tubular prolongation of the brain. At its central ex- tremity the cavity of the cerebral prolongation is continuous with that of the fourth ventricle. Its peripheral extremity, which extends into the muscular layer of the embryo, and particu- larly into the osseous part of it, forms a vesi- cular dilatation which is gradually separated from the brain. To this vesicle of nervous substance, which is the labyrinth, there grows inwards a reflection of the tegumentary layer to form the accessory parts of the organ of hearing. Such is Haer's account of the development of the ear in the chick. Huschke, on the con- trary, says that the membraneous labyrinth does not arise from the brain, but is originally a blind sac of the skin with an excretory duct, which gradually contracts, until the blind sac of skin is completely cut off from the rest of the tegumentary system. However this may be, the labyrinth, accord- ing to the observations of Valentin* made on the embjryo of the sheep, exists at a very early period, under the form of a simple elongated tube with an oblong cavity, which is the ves- tibule. This cavity becomes broader, assumes a rounder form, and presents in the interior a somewhat uneven surface. Soon after this, its inner end is elongated and begins to make a circular turn, which is the first rudiment of the cochlea. The turns of this cochlear vesicle be- come gradually more developed. A short time after the commencement of the development of the cochlea, the semicircular canals begin to show themselves as processes or diverticula of the vestibule. There first appears the posterior over and behind the vestibular fenestra; it be- comes elongated from within and below out- wards and upwards, then bending in the form of an arch returns to the vestibule. In a si- milar manner the superior and inferior semi- circular canals are formed. The semicircular * HanJhuch der EntwickeluDgsgeschichte ties Mensehen, p. 206. canals are at first proportionally very wide, but gradually contract, till at last the ampullae pre- sent the only trace of their former width. The vestibule itself has diminished in breadth and length, and acquired a more trapezoidal form. The vestibular fenestra, which was before not very distinct and still round, has become more evident and exhibits an oval shape. / 1 What Valentin here describes is only the basis of the future osseous labyrinth. There exist as yet no observations bearing on the mode of development of the membraneous labyrinth. The irregular conditions which the labyrinth has been found to present, as well as the struc- ture permanent in the lower animals, corre- spond in a remarkable manner with the above-de- scribed stages of development. Thus in a mon- strous foetus, Hyrtl* found, instead of a vestibule, cochlea, semicircular canals, and internal mea- tus, a single very capacious cavity, containing a membraneous sac, in which the auditory nerve, sufficiently well developed, terminated. There was no trace of vestibular or cochlear fenestra, and the accessory parts of the organ were en- tirely wanting, llodererf describes a somewhat similar case, in which, however, some of the accessory parts presented themselves, though in a very rudimentary and imperfect form. The cochlea has presented itself as a mere subdivision of the vestibule without any wind- ings, a state of parts which is permanent in birds. In other cases, though presenting wind- ings, these have been found fewer than natural, and sometimes the spiral lamina has been wanting or not extending throughout all the turns of the cochlea, so that no subdivision into scalae or but a very imperfect one pre- sented itself. The semicircular canals are sometimes smaller and narrower than usual; one or all of them have been found wanting or but partially present. In the latter case, after running a short way, they have been observed stopping short and terminating in a cul-de-sac. The semicircular canals, as they are formed later, more frequently present deviations from the regular structure than the vestibule and cochlea. Our knowledge of the ear-bulb in the human embryo commences at about the third month, when the membraneous labyrinth is already very perfectly developed and surrounded by a cartilaginous shell, having a structure as com- plicated as at a more advanced period the bony shell presents. The membraneous labyrinth is at this early period so firm that it is not very difficult, by means of careful dissection and manipulation, to extract the whole from its cartilaginous case. According to Meckel,} the membraneous la- byrinth is composed at first of two perfectly * Beitr'age zur pathologischen Anatomic des Gehbrorgans. In the Medicinische Jahrbucher, des k. k. oestr. Staates. Wien, 1836. Bd. xx. p. 446. t Descriptio foetus parasitici. In Commentariis Soc. reg. Gcettingensis. torn. iv. 1754, pp. 136— 148. J Manuel d'Anatomie, etc. traduit par Jourdan et Breschet, tome iii. s. 1948—3o Paiis, 1825.