925 INSECTA. They afford strength and lightness to the wings, with which they are in direct communication like the bones in the wings of birds, although the organs themselves in these different classes are not analogous. Dr. Leach formerly desig- nated these solidified trachese in the wings of insects Pterigostia, or wing bones, a name that seems appropriate, both on account of its convenience and as being indicatory of their principal function, although it has sometimes been objected to as incorrect on account of their forming part of the respiratory system. But it may be remarked that the true bones in the wings of birds also communicate with the respiratory organs, and perform functions simi- lar to these in insects, while the interesting fact noticed by Odier, that in their solidified con- dition they are composed of the same kind of earthy matter as that which enters into the composition of other parts of the skeleton, is sufficient to warrant us in retaining the designa- tion. There appears to be no part of the body in vertebrata analogous to the wings of insects, except, perhaps, in the single instance of one of the Saurian reptiles, Draco volans, in which a pair of supernumerary organs to assist in locomotion are developed from the sides of the body, and -which are formed by the ribs, directed horizontally outwards and covered only by the skin. We have thus in appearance the remains in one class of the vertebrata of a con- dition which is permanent in another class in the invertebrata, which resemble them in their general form and metamorphoses. In every instance, then, the wings of an insect, like these appendages of the thorax in the reptile, are perfectly distinct in their origin from the proper organs of locomotion; they have their normal condition in the lower invertebrata in the superior branchial tufts of the Annelides, and, consequently, are not more analogous to the wing of the Bat, as they have recently been supposed,* than to that of the Bird. We have already seen that the full developement of the wings takes place at the last change of the insect, but it is commenced in the earlier periods of the larva state, in which, with Oken and Carus, we have detected these organs in their most rudimentary condition. They are distinctly seen on the second or third day after the insect has assumed its last larva covering, before changing to the pupa. They are then scarcely so large as the head of a moderate sized pin, and appear like newly-formed folded portions of delicate tegument, extensively sup- plied with ramifications of minute air-vessels, derived directly from the principal trachea;. They are at that time situated immediately beneath the external covering, at the inferior part of the sides of the meso- and met.a-thoracic segments, and continue to increase in size during the growth of the larva. When the insect has discontinued to feed, about a day before changing into the pupa state, and the new skin of the future pupa is nearly completed beneath that of the larva, these rudiments of the wings have become so much enlarged that * Mod. Clas. Ins. vol. i. p. 11. their existence is distinctly indicated by the swollen appearance of the segments. It is at this period of the larva state that they were formerly discovered by Swammerdam.* At the moment of Assuring the skin of the larva, they are suddenly somewhat enlarged, and when the skin has been cast off, and the delicate parts of the newly exposed naked pupa are beginning to be agglutinated together and folded upon each other previously to becoming solidi- fied to form the strong pupa case, they again acquire a considerable increase of size, owing to the extension and enlargement of the tracheal vessels within them, together with a corres- ponding increase in the quantity of the fluids in the circulatory canals, by which they are every where accompanied. The wings are then expanded so as to cover the whole under-sur- face of the thorax and limbs, and when the insect subsequently bursts from the pupa case and is assuming the perfect state, they are again suddenly enlarged, and acquire their full expansion through the recurrence of similar phenomena. It is thus evident that the wings are formed from extensive ramifications of vessels inclosed between two membranes, which are continuous with, and are expanded portions of, the com- mon tegument. In many instances, as in Neuroptera, they are perfectly naked, or are covered only with a few scattered hairs, as in Hymenoptera. But in others they are densely covered with peculiar cuticulardevelopments in the form of flattened scales, closely imbricated upon each other, and inserted each by a little footstalk or quill into little spaces in the exter- nal membrane f In other instances, as in the Coleoptera, the anterior pair become solidified and adapted to a new function, but are then entirely useless as organs of flight. They serve as covers to protect the posterior pair, which, in a state of rest, are carefully folded beneath them; and when these are entirely absent, as in some of the Tcnebriunida-, the anterior pair become united together and form a strong covering for the abdomen. Now we have seen that the solidification of the trachea? alone affords sufficient strength to the membranous wings, which are always employed as organs of flight, and that the earthy matter by which they are consolidated is similar to that which is the means of consolidating other parts of the dermo-skeleton. It is by the deposition of a greater quantity of the same kind of earthy matter, not alone in the tracheae, but throughout the whole substance of the wings, that the anterior pair in Coleoptera are rendered entirely useless, by their rigidity, as organs of flight, and at the same time are made to assume a new form and office, and become the means of protecting the posterior pair, in those insects whose habits might otherwise expose these necessarily light and delicate organs to occa- sional injury. This modification of structure, then, in the form of elytra, consists simply in the solidification, or, if we may venture so to * Biblia Natura, Tab. xxxv. fig. II. e. f Dr. Roget's Bridgewatcr Treatise, vol. i. p. 354.