HERNIA; 751 hernia just described may exist in two different conditions ; one, in winch it is still lodged within the inguinal canal, and appears in the form of a tumour in the upper part of the groin, termed bubonocele; the other, in which it has escaped through the external ring, and having dropped down constitutes scrotal hernia. When the rupture has descended no farther than the groin, there are but two affections that can bear any resemblance to it: these are, the testis itself whilst in the act of descending, if this process has been delayed beyond the usual period of life, and an enlarged inguinal gland. However possible in cases of crural hernia (as shall be noticed hereafter), a mistake of the latter description is not likely to occur in the disease under consideration, but there is an ob- servation of Mr. Colles on this subject de- serving of attention. "I do not suppose," says this distinguished professor, " that any surgeon of competent anatomical knowledge could mistake it for inflammation of those lymphatic glands which l,e in the fold of the groin, but an enlargement, whether from a venereal or any other cause, of two lymphatic glands which he on the side of the abdomen, as high up but rather more internally than the in- ternal abdominal ring; an enlargement of these glands will produce appearances resembling those of inguinal hernia."*' It seems almost surprising how the descent of the testicle could possibly be mistaken for a hernia when the mere examination of the scrotum would throw such an explanatory light upon the subject, but a consideration of the following circumstances will be useful in solving the difficulty. 1st, The detention of the tes- ticle within the abdomen until an unusually late period is by no means so infrequent an oc- currence as is generally supposed even by sur- geons in considerable practice : I have heard a military medical officer observe on the great number of young men that had passed before him for inspection after enlistment, in whom one and sometimes both the testes had not de- scended. 2d, The symptoms of both affections bear a general though not necessarily a close resemblance; for the situation of the tumour is exactly the same, and if the testicle is com- pressed and inflamed, the pain and tenderness and the inflammatory fever are to a certain ex- tent like the symptoms of strangulation. But I have not met the same costiveness, at least the same obstinate resistance of the bowels to the operation of aperient medicines, nor the same vomiting, nor the same exquisite tender- ness spreading over the abdomen, and the pulse is not that small, thready, hard, and rapid vi- bration that is produced by peritoneal inflam- mation. In one case I perceived that pressure on the tumour occasioned that sickening pain and sensation of faintness which a slight injury of the testicle so often produces; and I imagine that in this case a light and very gentle per- cussion might prove a useful auxiliary dia- gnostic. But, 3rd, it does not always happen * Colles's Surgical Anatomy, p. 46. that the surgeon takes sufficient pains to inves- tigate the disease before him. " He is apt," says Mr. Colles,* " at once to set down the case as incarcerated hernia, a complaint with which he is familiar, and does not suspect the exist- ence of a disease which is to him perhaps ex- tremely rare. Boys sometimes indulge in the trick of forcing up the testicles into the ab- domen, which may be followed by unhappy consequences, for the gland may not descend again, or if it does, perhaps a portion of in- testine slips down along with and behind it, which may then become strangulated, while its presence is unsuspected and the symptoms attributed to compression of the testis." A boy, about seven years of age, had forced the left testicle into the abdomen : ten years afterwards, the inguinal ring having probably become un- usually contracted, the testicle passed under the femoral arch with all the symptoms of stran- gulated hernia, on account of which he was obliged to undergo the operation.| When the hernia has become scrotal, it then comes more to resemble diseases of the testis and of the cord, but in general these are very easily distinguished, and there are only three that could lead a practitioner into error, and then only through unpardonable carelessness; the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis, the hydrocele of the spermatic cord, and the varicocele or a varicose condition of the veins of the cord. There is not much likelihood that hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis could, in its earlier stages, be mistaken for hernia: it commences below and increases in an upward direction, while a hernia proceeds from above downwards; and at first in cases of hydrocele, the ring, the cord, and all these parts can be accurately felt. As the disease proceeds and the water reaches the ring, a diagnosis is not so easy; still in almost every case of rupture the testis and the cord, particularly the former, can be easily felt lying behind and at the bottom of the tumour, which is not the case in hydrocele. Besides, hydrocele is lighter as to weight; it gives a sensation of fluctuation to the touch ; it never exhibits that soft doughy character that belongs to omental hernia : moreover it is diaphanous, and the light of a candle can be seen through it, if the tumour is examined in a darkened room. A collection of water within the sheath of the cord must, I should think, be rather an infrequent occurrence; at least it has not fallen to my lot to meet with many examples of it. Still the practitioner must be aware of the possibility of the disease, and that both from the nature of the accident that occasions it, and many of the accompanying symptoms, it may very readily be mistaken for hernia. A young man fell with his groin against the edge of a tub, and in an incredibly short space of time afterwards a colourless elastic tumour appeared in the usual situation of hernia. * Colles, op. citat. t Scarpa, op. citat. p. 235.