95 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. these nerves that the organs act, it is not im- possible that the nervous influence itself is accumulated in these cells as in condensers, and that it is discharged at will, just as this influence is accumulated in the muscular tissue to produce contraction of its fibres." It was reflection on the phenomena of animal elec- tricity that led Dr. Wollaston to form the hy- pothesis, which he supported with so much ability, of secretion in general being depen- dant on electricity, conveyed by the nerves, and acting on the secerning organs.* Dr. Wilson Philip, also, thinks that the circum- stances under which electrical action is mani- fested by fishes go to the support of his theory of the nervous influence being identical with common and voltaic electricity. Dr. Faraday says that, from the time that it was shewn that electricity could perform the functions of the nervous influence, he has had no doubt of their very close relation, and probably as effects of one common cause. To the numerous list of learned observers who have speculated on this interesting subject, we have to add the re- spected name of Sir John Herschel, who imagines that the present state of electrical science warrants the conjecture, that the brain and spinal marrow form an electric organ, which is spontaneously discharged along the nerves, at brief intervals, " when the tension of the electricity reaches a certain point."f Meissner, again, supposes that the blood be- comes charged with electricity in the lungs, during the chemical process of respiration; that the electricity immediately traverses the nerves of the lungs, and then the other parts of the ganglionic system ; that hence the cen- tral organs of the nervous system become charged ; and that the brain, on and through which the will acts, being charged, excites the several organs to activity through the medium of their respective nerves, along which electric currents are passed.} The facts, (in addition to those which have chiefly engaged our atten- tion in this article,) upon which such theories are built are,— (1) that the muscles of an animal recently dead contract when common electricity passes through them, just as they do when they are subject to the animal's will; (2) that voltaic electricity acts upon secreting organs, so as to enable them in some degree to carry on their functions after their proper nerves have been cut; and (3) that the same agent appears to influence powerfully the capillary circulation. But, although these facts, taken along with what we know of the phenomena of the electricity of fishes, certainly do appear to favour the views to which we have just ■* Phil. Mag. xxxiii. 488. f Discourse on the Study of Nat. Phil. 343. t Syst. der Heilkunde. Wien. 1832. If hypo- theses such as these should hereafter be proved to express the true state of the case, the electrical fishes will become objects of great interest to the physiologist, as presenting him with opportunities, such as no other animals afford, of studying in accumulation the properties of that wonderful agent, which is the moving power of the animal organiza- tion, and a very important link in the chain of causes and effects bj< which life is manifested. alluded, there are yet other facts which are so' hostile to them as to make it probable that they do not express the truth. For instance, the most carefully conducted experiments have failed to demonstrate the existence of electric currents through muscles during their contrac- tion; which, from all that is known of the phenomena exhibited by electricity in other circumstances, it may be presumed would not have been the case had it been the immediate stimulant of muscular contraction. M. Per- son has applied the poles of a galvanometer to the spinal marrow without obtaining any indi- cations of the existence of electrical currents through its substance. The subjects of Per- son's experiments were cats, dogs, rabbits, eels, and frogs. The spinal canal having been opened, the piles of the galvanometer were placed in communication with the anterior and posterior columns of the cord. This was clone at different parts, after the roots of the nerves had been cut. Small plates of platina, with which the wires of the instrument were armed, were thrust into the cerebellum and into several of the largest nerves. These experiments were repeated after the animals had been placed under the influence of strychnia. But there was no certain indication of electricity ob- tained, although the most delicate instruments were used.* Person's experiments have been repeated by Muller with the same results. Messrs. Prevost and Dumas, however, state that, having armed the branches of their gal- vanometer with two wires of platina, exactly alike, and having plunged one of them into the muscles of a frog's leg, while, with the other, heated to redness, they touched its nerves, they saw considerable deviations of the needle of the instrument follow the contrac- tions of the muscles.f But seeing that the electricity made manifest in this experiment may have been developed rather by the con- tact of the hot wire and the nerves than by the nervous actions, we cannot admit that it is sufficient to prove the existence of electrical currents in muscles during their contraction. Dr. Faraday, also, has lately experimented on living muscles with the very delicate galvano- meter invented by himself, but has entirely failed to obtain indications of moving electri- city. Negative results such as these, obtained by so many practised observers, are sufficient to induce us to withhold our assent from those theories which make nervism identical with electricity, until the whole subject shall have been more fully investigated. As in some degree illustrative of the pheno- mena of animal electricity, properly so called, we must here take notice of the manifestation of common electricity in animal substances and in living animals. The mere contact of heterogeneous bodies is * Journal de Physiol, x, 217. Some years ago M. Pouillet announced that he had witnessed electrical phenomena during the operation of the acupuncture of muscles ; but he has since con- fessed that he was deceived. f Edwards, De l'iiifiuencc ties agens physiques sur la Vie, in Appendix.