493 GLAND. This development of coecal tubuli is seen in the liver of Limrueus stagnulis in the em- bryo state, (fig. 223). In the embryo of Lacerta vi- ridis, (fig. 224,) the rudimen- tary liver with its blind se- creting canals (e) are observed; the elongated heart (a) fur- Fig. 224. nishing the aorta (6) dividing into its right and left trunks, together with the principal venous trunk (c), are represented; d is the intestine, / the rudiment of the corpora Wolffiana, and g g the rudiments of the upper and lower extremities. One of the most remarkable differences ob- served in the development of the several glands relates to the proportion between the mass of the primary plastic substance, and the extent and number of the contained tubes ; thus, in the evolution of the liver there is seen a thick layer of the primitive matter; whilst, on the contrary, the parotid gland in the embryo of a calf two inches seven lines long, consists of a tube visible to the naked eye, and not at all covered by parenchyma. 5. The mode in which the secondary tubes are developed has been observed with great care; and it is distinctly established that they do not proceed as mere elongations of the pri- mary cavity, but are formed in an indepen- dent manner. One of the latest writers on the development of the body, Valentin * has given a very exact account of the process in all the glands. He states that in the neighbour- hood of the chief duct or of a branch of it, small oblong accumulations of the plastic mass are formed, which become hollowed in the interior, and these hollows, at first inde- pendent of the principal cavity, subsequently communicate with it. It is also observed by Muller that in the kidney of Batrachian Am- phibia, the secreting tubes first appear as * Loc. cit. p. 521, et alibi. vesicles which are formed before the ureter, and therefore independently of the principal duct.* As the tubes become more developed, the plastic substance around them, by acquiring greater firmness, constitutes their walls, and thus determines their exact form and limits. It is necessary to state that in every instance without an exception, the newly-formed canals end in coecal extremities, which are often rather swollen, presenting a pedunculated ap- pearance. 6. In proportion as the canals become formed in the substance of the plastic mass, this latter gradually diminishes in quantity, till ultimately, when all the tubuli are formed, it is so much reduced that it merely fills up the interlobular fissures, and is in fact converted into the interstitial cellular tissue. 7. At the same period of time that the tubes are thus being formed, the bloodvessels are being developed; and, as Muller and Valentin remark, a very close parallel is presented in the generation of these the essential parts of the gland. As in the case of the tubes, there are at first little masses, or islands, of the plastic substance, which subsequently join together, and their interior becoming liquified, a num- ber of little channels are formed containing a circulating fluid, and which channels, by the subsequent consolidation of their walls, are at length formed into perfect bloodvessels. Like the tubes these vessels are at first independent; they afterwards open into larger trunks and ultimately into the heart. It is proper to remark that, although there is such a corres- pondence in the process of development in each instance, the bloodvessels are formed quite independently of the canals; that they occupy a different part of the plastic mass; and that they never present that continuity which ought at this epoch to have been very apparent, if the theory of Ruysch had been founded in truth. 8. The several glands are not developed equally early, some having their organization much more advanced than others; thus at the time when the pancreas is so far formed as to contain an immense number of canals, the parotid presents only a single duct or a few ramifications.f The principle which regulates the relative degree of development has evi- dently reference to the importance of the organ during the foetal life; and in this respect the liver is most remarkable, for that body being, as I conceive, the true decarbonising organ in the animal kingdom, and therefore its func- tions being doubtless necessary in the foetus, very quickly acquires a high degree of organi- zation, so much so that, as we learn from all observations, it very speedily fills the greatest part of the abdomen.J * De Gland. Struct, p. 87. t Rathke in Burdach's Phy. II. Band. p. 576. Valentin, 1. c. p. 225. $ In the embryo of a sheep five lines in length, Valentin has found the liver filling half of the abdominal cavity; and in the embryo eight lines long, that organ constitutes three-fourths of the bulk of the viscera contained in the peritoneum: