HEARING. by which as well as by the vibrations of the bones, the air in the tympanum is made to vibrate, and that cavity being closed the sono- rous vibrations are reflected from its walls so as to give rise to the augmentation of the sound. Autenrieth and Kemer believed the cochlea to be that part of the auditory apparatus by which we perceive what the French call the " timbre" of sounds; that quality, namely, which depends on the nature of the material of which the sounding body is constituted, as well as on its form and size, and in some degree on the manner in which sound is elicited from it; and they considered it the office of the vestibule to convey to the sen- sorium the pitch and strength of sounds. Their opinion as to the function of the cochlea was founded on some experiments as to the extent to which ceitain of the lower animals were affected by particular instruments of music: the results obtained from these experiments, when taken in connexion with certain dif- ferences in the form and other characteristics of the cochlea in those animals, led these authors to the conclusion that " those ani- mals alone seemed to perceive a difference of the ' timbre' of sounds of pretty uniform pitch and loudness, in whom the cochlea was very long and projected considerably into the cavity of the tympanum, and was not much concealed by the surrounding bony substance. Thus it appeared that a dog (the cochlea of dogs being longer than that of cats), upon hearing a certain note of the clarionet, set up a howl, but seemed in no way affected at hearing the same note from the flute or violin ; but the cat continued undisturbed, although a variety of instruments was sounded in her hearing. A rabbit (in which the cochlea is prominent) ran away at the note C elicited from a glass tumbler or from a string, but remained still when the same note was sounded even more loudly by the flute."* But it is abun- dantly evident that these experiments do not fairly lead to the conclusion which these phy- siologists endeavoured to establish; for, as Weber has remarked, it is one thing to be dis- agreeably affected by the peculiar tone of a given note in an instrument of music, and another thing to distinguish the timbre of the notes of different musical instruments. As well might we conclude that dogs excel in the power of distinguishing scents and savours, because the smell and taste of spirits of wine seem to be peculiarly disagreeable to them, and they reject instantly, although hungry, any food offered to them with which that has been mixed. It seems evident that the cochlea is an in- dication of a very advanced condition of the organ of hearing ; beyond this we can arrive at no definite conclusion in the present state of * See these experiments quoted at greater length in Weber's paper before referred to. Autenrieth's paper is to be found in Reil's and Autenrieth's Archiv. fur die Physiologie, B. ix. 1809; and contains much valuable and highly interesting matter relative to all the parts of the organ of hearing in several of the Mammalia. our knowledge, unless indeed we admit the very general one of Weber, that it is the pri- mary seat of those auditory impressions which are conveyed through the vibrations of the cranial bones. But this view, however pro- bable, and supported by much sound reasoning, throws no light on the object of the peculiar form and mechanism of the cochlea. We must not omit to notice that a portion of the vestibule is regarded by Weber as performing a similar function to that of the cochlea, and on similar grounds. That portion which is known under the name of the sacculus is so adherent to the bony wall of the vestibule, corresponding to ihejbveahemispheric a, accord- ing to Scarpa, that it cannot be separated without laceration, and consequently it seems to be better adapted to receive the sonorous vibra- tions which are conveyed by the cranial bones. The remaining parts of the labyrinth, namely, the three semicircular canals and the common sinus, are most affected by those sounds which are conveyed through the external meatus : it seems evident at least that they must be more affected than the cochlea from the connexion between the membrana tympani and fenestra ovalis through the chain of tympanic ossi- cles, by which that membrane is brought into direct communication with the perilymph surrounding the membranous labyrinth. On the other hand these parts are badly adapted to receive the impression of vibrations direct from the cranial bones, being separated from the corresponding osseous parts by the peri lymph, and that part of the auditory nerve which is distributed to them, having no con- nexion with the bone. An experiment of Weber illustrates the relation of the perilymph to the membranous labyrinth, and shows that an impulse upon the membrana tympani is capable of affecting it. In some birds, the falcon for example, the semicircular canals are so large, that the membranous canals may be easily seen. If in such a bird one osseous semicircular canal be opened by a small open- ing, care being taken not to injure the mem- branous canal, and then we press the mem- brane of the tympanum inwards, at each com pression we observe the water contained in the bony canal to flow out with a jerk. He there- fore concludes that the sonorous undulations conveyed by the cranial bones are communi- cated more immediately to the nerve of the cochlea, but those conveyed by the external meatus to the nerve of the vestibule. The semicircular canals are remarkable for the constancy of their number, and of their re- lative position with respect to each other, in all animals in whom they are found. They exist in almost all fishes, and in all the other vertebrate classes, and in these they are never less than three in number, two of which are always placed vertically and one horizontally. The opinion that the arrangement of these canals has reference to conveying the sensation of the direction of sounds, I find expressed by Au- tenrieth and Kerner in the paper already re- ferred to. "In no animal," they say, "are these canals ever more or fewer on each side than