683 ANIMAL HEAT. simple conditions. These conditions them- selves are, in the first place, assumed from comparisons of the organization of the two grand groups or series into which the animal kingdom is divided with reference to heat— the cold-blooded animals, and the warm- blooded animals. In this review we have avoided all hypothesis, confining ourselves to the severe method of deduction, always starting from well-authenticated facts, and even con- firming each step in advance by new data equally indisputable. The harmony which reigns in this comprehensive whole, which embraces the different classes of animals and man, not only in the various modifications of health, but even of disease, in their relation to external agents, and the therapeutic pro- cesses of nature and of art, afford the surest confirmation of the reality of these relations. As the phenomena of animal heat are re- ferable to two general conditions of the eco- nomy,—the state of the blood and that of the nervous system; and as we have only in the first instance deduced these from the com- parison of natural facts, although we have confirmed them by new observations and par- ticular experiments, one may be desirous of seeing them confirmed by experiments of a more general bearing. To the reasonableness of this wish we yield assent the more willingly, as the results we have to quote are deductions from some of the most admirable researches that have been instituted by physiologists;— I allude to the enquiries of Legallois, Sir Benjamin Brodie, and Dr. Chossat. The first of these experimenters, by the em- ployment of various means for impeding re- spiration, or limiting the consumption of air, found that the refrigeration of animals is in the compound ratio of the difficulty experienced in breathing and of the quantity of oxygen con- sumed ; so that when, in two experiments, the difficulty of breathing is the same, the greatest extent of cooling occurs in that in which the smallest quantity of oxygen is vitiated, and the contrary. Now, the end of the process of respiration being to change the venous into arterial blood, this conclusion of Legallois con- firms directly the one of the two principal conditions—the state of the blood, which we have laid down as influencing the production of heat among animals, and to the knowledge of which we had attained by induction. The results of the direct experiments which we have still to quote also come powerfully in aid of our inferences concerning the other principal condition, which we have assumed from induction, influencing the production of animal heat: this is the state or action of THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Sir B. Brodie demonstrated by a series of the most ingeniously conceived and happily executed experiments, that when animals were decapitated and respiration was kept up by artificial means, so that the blood circulated as usual, and the process of change from the venous to the arterial state went on uninter- ruptedly, the ordinary quantity of carbonic acid being eliminated, all the while, that, ne- vertheless, the temperature fell rapidly, even more rapidly than when no artificial respiration was maintained. Dr. Chossat completed these researches upon the nervous system in its relations with the production of heat, by demonstrating in a series of experiments the following very im- portant fact, viz. that the depression of animal heat is constantly in relation with lesions of the nervous system, whether these lesions im- plicate the cerebrospinal system, or the system of the great sympathetic. We necessarily confine ourselves, in alluding to these admirable researches, to the most general results, and the conclusions flowing most immediately from the experiments insti- tuted. We reserve a more particular mention of them for the proper place, namely, the article on Respiration, to which we beg to refer. With regard to the opinions of writers generally, we shall be content to observe here, that they have for the most part regarded the single physiological condition which was the subject of their particular study as the only source of animal heat. The general result of their united labours, however, is, that there are two principal sources, the one depending on the arterial blood, the other on the energy of the nervous system,—a conclusion to which we have come by another way, by combining all the known facts that bear upon animal heat, and embracing the manifestations presented by the whole of the animal kingdom as well as the isolated phenomena exhibited by man, and this not in one but in every condition of ex- istence, not only in the state of health but of disease likewise, not as beings independent of all things around them, but as living in intimate relationship with external agents. Of the physical cause of animal heat, With regard to the physical cause of animal heat, or to its mode of production, there was a time, which we have not yet left very far behind us, when natural philosophers and chemists imagined they possessed the secret, especially with reference to the mineral king- dom. They have now discovered their mis- take ; and as the evolution of heat is a mystery to them, it is not to be expected that it is less so to physiologists, as manifested in the do- main which they cultivate in peculiar. The problem, in fact, becomes immensely com- plicated by a variety of phenomena when from the inorganic we ascend to the organic world. All that could be done has been accomplished ; from the particular conditions of organization and of function upon which this effect seemed to depend, physiologists have risen to those that were the most general and com- prehensive. This, in fact, was the end we proposed in commencing this article. That nothing may be omitted which can make the sketch more complete, and none of the great inquiries which have had animal heat for their object may be passed over in silence, we shall briefly cite the more important of those in which the mode of production of animal heat is discussed, always reserving to ourselves the