828 ILIAC ARTERIES. aorta upon the left side of the spine; Velpeau, however, seems to question the existence of any difference in the length of the two vessels, inas- much as the right divides generally nearer to the spine than the left, the inclination of their origin to the left being thus compensated, but to what- ever extent this view may hold good, it is by no means strictly correct; in fact the length of the arteries, whether comparative or absolute, is far from regular; nor is the preponderance, when present, always upon the same side; the opinion generally entertained is probably correct, the light artery being in the majority of instances somewhat longer than the left; but the writer has found the left the longer of the two, and the same disposition has been observed by J. F. Meckel; this is,however, an unusual disposition. The relations of the arteries are simple. During their descent they are situate in front of the bodies of the lumbar vertebras, with the intervening fibro-cartilages, of one, two, or more of these bones, according to the height at which the arteries arise, and also of the lateral part of the base of the sacrum ; they are both covered upon three sides by the peritoneum, viz. in front and laterally, the membrane descending upon them from the root of the mesentery; the mesentery itself also and the small intestines are placed before them, and the latter overlap them upon either side. Farther, they are in front of the superior branches of the middle sacral artery and of the sympathetic nerve. That of the right side at its outset is placed before the left primitive iliac vein, which it crosses at its junction with the cava,'and par- tially before the commencement of the cava itself; during its course it is in front of the right primitive vein, at first only partially, but, as it proceeds, covering it to a greater extent, until at its termination it is directly before it. External to both, but on a plane posterior to them, are the psoae muscles, the left artery how- ever being nearer to the muscle than the right, between which and the psoas the right primitive vein and the cava intervene, being at the same time posterior to it. Internal to both at their origin is the middle sacral artery; on the left side the left primitive vein lies along the inside of the artery, but on a plane behind it. Anteriorly the arteries are crossed at their termination by the corresponding ureter, that duct being interposed between the peritoneum and the vessel, but more adherent to the former. The relation of the ureter to the iliac arteries is not uniform, either on opposite sides or in different subjects; the bifurcation of the pri- mitive iliac may be assumed as the mean point of reference for its transit, the duct descending into the pelvis between the external and internal iliacs, and before the internal; but its precise relation will depend upon the height at which the bifurcation takes place and the side of the body to which it belongs, and hence it very frequently, if not usually, crosses the external iliac upon the right and the termination of the internal on the left. The artery and vein, the relations of which differ remarkably upon the two sides, the vein beirfg external upon the right and internal upon the left, and upon both posterior, are enclosed within a condensed cellular investment, pro- longed upward upon the aorta and downward upon the secondary iliacs; upon the primitive vessels it is so thin that it may at times seem absent; but, as it descends, it increases in thickness, and acquires upon the external iliacs considerable strength. The primitive iliac arteries ordinarily give only minute branches to the adjoining parts, viz. the ureter, the peritoneum, the. vein, lym- phatic glands and cellular structure; but occa- sionally they have been found to give off the ilio-lumbar artery, and more rarely a renal or spermatic artery.* Although,according to the view usually taken, the primitive iliac terminates by dividing into internal and external, yet in many instances it will be found that the primitive and external iliacs appear as one vessel giving off the internal from its posterior side, and nearly at right angles, while in the foetus the reverse seems the case, the primitive and internal being continuous and rather giving off the external. Internal iliac artery.f (Arteria iliuca interna, s. hypogastrica, s. umbilicalis ; Fr. artere iliaque interne, ou hypogastrique; Germ. Becken-pulsader oder innere Huft-pulsader.) This artery from the time of birth supplies the viscera and parietes of the pelvis, both externally and internally ; prior to that epoch it is the channel through which the blood is trans- mitted from the body of the foetus to the placenta, whence it may then be termed with propriety the " placental artery," since such is its chief office, the other distribution being of inconsiderable extent, and the divisions of the artery intended for it small in proportion; hence the vessel presents a remarkable contrast at the two periods of life, in the foetus being a large and long vessel extending from the ter- mination of the aorta, for, as has been before stated, it seems at that time the continuation of the primitive iliac artery, to the placenta giving off in its course small branches to the viscera and parietes of the pelvis, while in after life the placental artery has disappeared, and in its stead is found a short trunk of considerable size,—the commencement of the placental artery as it had been—from which arise nume- rous vessels for the pelvis and its viscera. The internal iliac arises from the posterior side of the primitive iliac artery,} between the body of the last lumbar vertebra or the sacro- vertebral angle, and the sacro-iliac articulation, but generally higher upon the right side than the left; it descends into the pelvis in front of * J. F. Meckel. t The internal iliac and its branches should be examined first with the pelvis complete, the peri- toneum and viscera being detached trom its lateral wall, and the latter alternately empty and distended ; afterward a section of the pelvis may be made through the symphysis pubis and the middle of the sacrum, preserving the viscera with their attach- ments to one side ; but this should not be done until after the dissection of the perineum. | See primitive iliac for point and mo^e of division.