EXTREMITY. portion of the articular cylinder is raised con- siderably above it. This arrangement accounts for the hollow angle manifest on the outer side of the elbow-joint when the forearm is extended. We have yet to describe two processes which are connected in great measure with the outer and inner extremities of the articular cy- linder, and to which we have already referred, as being the points in which the margins of the bone terminate. The external one is trian- gular and thick, rough upon its surface, and projects slightly. It is improperly called the external condyle—more correctly it should be designated epicondi/le, being applied to the outer surface of what is properly the external condyle. This process affords attachment to the external lateral ligament of the elbow- joint and to the principal supinator and ex- tensor muscles on the forearm, whence it has been called condylus extensorius. The inter- nal process is very prominent, distinctly trian- gular, terminating the inner edge of the hu- merus and connected with the trochlea; it is more correctly denominated epitrochlea. It affords insertion to the internal lateral ligament, and to the pronator and flexor muscles of the forearm. Its posterior surface is slightly hol- lowed at the line of its junction with the rest of the bone ; the ulnar nerve passes behind it. The humerus is the principal lever of the pectoral extremity ; hence in all animals its strength is proportionate to the force and power which is required in the limb. In the ele- phant it is a massive pillar of support; and here we may notice a variety following the same law which influences the difference in the aspect of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, already noticed; namely, that the angle be- tween the axes of the head and shaft of the humerus, is at its maximum when the arm- bone is mainly an instrument of support, and diminishes as that bone is more used for pre- hension and other purposes; and as this use is found for this bone chiefly in the human sub- ject, we may presume that in man the angle in question is the least removed from a right angle. When this limb is used mainly for support and progression, a considerable range of motion in the shoulder-joint is not required, the tuberosities at the upper extremity of the bone project and limit the motions of the joint. When, however, a considerable motion is ne- cessary,these tubercles are depressed as in man, so as not to interfere with these motions. The lower extremity of the humerus likewise affords marks indicative of the mobility of the fore- arm and hand; thus, in the one case one or both of the edges of the bone which terminate in the epitrochlea and epicondyle are promi- nent and strong in proportion as the muscles which arise from it are frequently called into play, as when the pronating and supinating motions of the forearm are extensive : in the other case this ridge is imperfectly developed, and the principal modification of the lower end of the bone is to be seen in the articular cy- linder, where greater depth is given to the trochlea, in order to afford increased strength and security to the elbow-joint. VOL. II. One of the most singular instances of the developement of bony processes in accordance with muscular power is in the case of the mole. In this little animal the whole anterior ex- tremity is constructed entirely with reference to its burrowing habits; its short, thick, and almost square clavicle and its elongated lever- like scapula tend to the same end, as its amaz- ingly strong humerus. The upper extremity of this latter bone is extremely broad; it pre- sents two articular surfaces, being articulated with the clavicle as well as with the scapula, and the tuberosities which give insertion to the muscles of rotation are enormously de- veloped. The body of the bone is short, thick, and strong; the inferior extremity is nearly as large as the superior; both the epicondyle and epitrochlea are very highly developed, especially the latter, which is accounted for by the fact that the muscles of pronation are those most called into action, in order to enable the animal to employ the accessory bone on the radial side of the hand, in scraping up the earth. This large size of the humerus, and great develope- ment of its muscular eminences, is found in all fossorial animals, as the megatherium, the pan- golins, beavers, ant-eaters, moles, and mono- tremata. In the two last the developement is the most remarkable. In the class of Birds, the humerus is de- veloped as regards the prominence of its mus- cular protuberances, in proportion to the powers of flight. In birds which fly, those eminences are strong and prominent, and the bone itself is proportionally strong; but in those which do not fly, the bone is weak and gene- rally short. In the common pigeon, for ex- ample, the enlargement of the scapular ex- tremity of the humerus, and the developement of the tubercles is very manifest, as well as the strength and thickness of the shaft of the bone. Structure.—The structure of the humerus is characteristic of that of long bones in general. In a vertical section we observe that the re- ticular texture is chiefly accumulated towards the extremities; the shaft being mainly formed of compact tissue. At the upper extremity we notice the mark of union of the epiphysis of the head, which corresponds to the line of the anatomical neck of the bone. The canal, when a transverse section of it is viewed, appears somewhat quadrilateral in form. Its walls are formed of very dense compact tissue. Developement.—The ossification of the hu- merus begins in its shaft, and that very early, according to Meckel about the second month ; the shaft goes on enlarging, but the extremities are still cartilaginous during the whole of in- tra-uterine life, and for the first year after birth. The superior extremity is developed by two points of ossification, one for the head, the other for the great tuberosity ; about the be- ginning of the second year the ossification of the head of the bone commences, and from the four-and-twentieth to the thirtieth month the ossification of the great tuberosity begins. According to Beclard, a small ossific point for the lesser tuberosity is visible in the fifth or M