61 ELASTICITY. ready seen, possessed of extraordinary elasticity. The chord, instead of filling the whole cavity, is suspended within it by means of an elastic liga- ment; and thus this delicate cylinder of nervous matter is hung loosely upon a series of elastic springs which effectually break the many jolts and concussions incident to the frame in the various movements of active life. It is owing to this extreme elasticity of the spinal column, that even after very long-continued pressure, it soon recovers its proper condition. When, for instance, from long and severe exercise the fibro- cartilages have become somewhat pressed down by the superincumbent weight, a few hours' repose in the horizontal position is sufficient to restore the spine to its proper length. This fact has not escaped the shrewd practical observa- tion of the lower classes ; when admission into the army can be obtained only by persons of a certain stature, the candidate who apprehends he can spare nothing in that particular, usually presents himself after his night's repose. The delicate viscera of the thoracic cavity owe like- wise their safety in a great degree to the same me- chanism. The cartilages which connect the ribs and sternum, and which, as we shall presently find, are destined to modify the movements of the thorax, tend likewise to its security by per- mitting it to yield to external forces. The ob- scure elasticity of the ribs themselves and of the ligaments connecting them to the spine contri- bute to the same end; hence we seldom find the thoracic viscera ruptured even by the greatest violence applied against their walls. It is this elasticity, aided no doubt by other still more efficient causes, which enables the mountebank to receive with impunity the blows of the weightiest sledge on an anvil laid upon his chest. 2. Elasticity is often had recourse to as a substitute for muscular contraction, and, as it would appear, with a view to economize that more important property. We find, for ex- ample, that in most animals the abdominal viscera are supported in their position chiefly by the muscles of the abdomen, and that on being forced downwards in inspiration by the descent of the diaphragm, they are again pressed upwards by the contraction of these muscles. In the large ruminating quadrupeds whose abdominal viscera are of so great a size, and in whom, owing to the horizontal position of the trunk, these organs tend directly down- wards, the quantity of muscular power requi- site to support and move them should neces- sarily have been of great amount; but instead of increasing the quantity of muscle to such an extent, nature has effected her purposes by much more simple means. Beneath the abdominal integuments there exists a mem- brane of great strength and elasticity, which not only supports the viscera but also helps to elevate them after they have been forced downwards in inspiration. The elastic liga- mentum nucha, which in these animals sup- ports the very weighty head, is a simple but complete substitute for the great mass of muscle which should have existed on the back part of the neck, in order to effect the same end. So obviously in this instance is elasticity a substitute for muscularity, that upon com- paring the structure in various animals we find the strength and elasticity of the ligament always proportionate to the weight of the head which it has to support. In the carnivora an interesting application of this property is seen in the retractile ligament passing between the claw and the phalangeal bone; as the claw in many genera is the chief weapon of attack, it must not be suffered to come into contact with the ground in progression, for otherwise it would become blunted, as seen in those which do not use it for the purposes mentioned; it is consequently suspended by the retractile liga- ment until drawn down at the will of the animal by means of the flexor muscles. Elasticity is here used as the means of suspension in order to save the effort of a constant muscular exer- tion. In the mollusea we see this property again employed to economize muscularity: the shell of the oyster admits of being opened as well as closed at the will of the animal; but muscularity is the source of the one ac- tion; elasticity residing in a strong ligament is the means of effecting the other. 3. Elasticity frequently preserves the patu- lous condition of certain outlets in the animal body, as, for example, those of the eyes and nostrils. This object is attained by the inser- tion of a rim of highly elastic cartilage into the soft parts which bound these openings. A material of greater rigidity, such as bone, would, it may be objected, have answered the purpose still better: but the rigidity of that substance would have greatly interfered with the free movements necessary for the functions of the lids, and in the nose would not only have increased the risk of injury from external violence, but would have prevented the ap- proximation of the alse which must take place in order to expel the nasal mucus. Neither would a soft and inelastic material have an- swered the purpose, for then the first effect of inspiration would be to approximate the edges of the opening, and thus to prevent the further entrance of air. The tracheal and bronchial canals are likewise preserved patulous by the same elastic material; and we again meet with it performing a like office in the Eustachian tube and the external meatus of the ear. 4. Elasticity is sometimes rendered subser- vient to locomotion, or the general movement of the body. The elastic pad placed beneath the foot of the dromedary and many other ani- mals is no doubt intended to facilitate progres- sion, and to compensate in some degree for the yielding looseness of the sands upon which they tread. The same apparatus is found in very great perfection in the feet of the carni- vora, and must be of great use in enabling them to make those enormous bounds by which they spring upon their prey. But perhaps one of the most interesting examples of elasticity being rendered subservient to locomotion is met with in certain fish. The salmon, during its annual ascent to fresh-water streams for the