FACE. and further from the median line than the artery ; 2. the transverse facial vein and some other small branches of the temporal; 3. veins corresponding to the branches of the internal maxillary artery already mentioned; and, lastly, some veins about the nose and brow, which are connected with the ophthalmic vein within the orbit. Both arteries and veins are imbedded in the adipose tissue, and are often remarkably tortuous, more especially the ar- teries, in old persons. Their trunks and branches open in a direction towards the me- dian line, particularly at the upper part of the face. The lymphatics are much more numerous than those of the cranium, and follow prin- cipally the course of the bloodvessels, and terminate in the submaxillary and parotid lym- phatic ganglions; in their course they traverse some ganglions, which are situated on the buc- cinator. The superficial lymphatics arise from all parts of the face, and, accompanying the su- perficial vessels, end in the submaxillary gan- glions; some of them traverse the smaller buccal ganglions. The deep lymphatics are situated in the zy- gomatic and pterygo-maxillary fossae ; they also accompany the bloodvessels, and ter- minate in the deep parotid and submaxillary ganglions. The lymphatic ganglions of the face are prin- cipally situated along the base of the jaw, and are termed the submaxillary ganglions. Others are placed on the jaw and buccinator, in front of the masseter (the buccal ganglions), and follow the facial vessels. Some lymphatic ganglions are situated underneath the zygoma (the zygomatic ganglions); and others, more numerous, are placed upon, within, or under- neath the parotid gland, and are termed the parotid ganglions. The deep lymphatics of the orbits, nose, and mouth, will be described with those cavities. The nerves (tf the face are derived from the three divisions of the fifth and from the portio dura of the seventh cerebral nerves. The branches from the fifth emerge on the face, 1. from the orbit; these come from the oph- thalmic or first division of the fifth, and are the frontal, the supra-trochlear, the infra- trochlear, and the lachrymal: 2. from the infra-orbitar foramen escape the infra-orbitar nerve, from the second division of the fifth or superior maxillary, and from the same source, emerging from underneath the ramus of the jaw, the buccal nerves: 3. from the mental foramen emerge branches of the inferior den- tal nerve, derived from the third division of the fifth or the inferior maxillary ; and from the same source, piercing the masseter, the masseteric nerves. The portio dura, after turn- ing over the posterior border of the lower jaw, forms a plexus (the pes anserinus) within the parotid gland, and divides into a great num- ber of branches, which are distributed on the face, and which have received various names corresponding to the regions where they run. The branches of the fifth nerve which are dis- tributed to the face principally supply the in- teguments, and those of the portio dura the muscles. Some filaments, however, of the fifth, such as the buccal branch, derived from the ganglionous portion, supply muscles; and, on the other hand, some cutaneous twigs are sent from the portio dura of the seventh to the commissure of the lips. Both nerves freely anastomose with each other on the face. For a more particular account of these nerves and of their functions, see Fifth pair of Nerves, Seventh pair of Cerebral Nerves, and Physiognomy. Abnormal conditions of the soft parts of the face.—The muscles of the face offer nothing very remarkable in their abnormal conditions ; like others, they become much developed by constant exercise, and on the other hand, when paralytic, they waste and lose both their colour and consistence; their fibres have been ob- served occasionally to have degenerated into a fatty substance, and the trichina spiralis has also been found among them as among those of other voluntary muscles. The bloodcessels of the face are subject to no anomalies in their course which call for notice in this place. It may be remarked, however, that they vary in size in different individuals, and are sometimes superficially and sometimes more deeply situated among the soft parts around ; their tortuosity in old age has already been adverted to. Vascular nevi are not unfrequentlv found on the face, in some cases deeply situated within the cavities or underneath the bones; in others, and more commonly, they lie superficially in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. They occur of the venous, arterial, or mixed kinds. The first sometimes attain a considerable magni- tude, as I have witnessed in the case of an old woman, in whom such a naevus grew on one cheek and lip, and exceeded in size the whole face. Such swellings are easily compressed, and often produce no other inconvenience than that of their deformity and weight. The arte- rial njevus, however, and more especially when deeply seated, is sometimes a formidable dis- ease, which may involve all the surrounding structures and ultimately prove fatal. The cu- taneous capillaries of the cheeks, and about the tip and ala; of the nose, often become enlarged and varicose, presenting a peculiar appearance, which is not uncommon in hard drinkers. The lymphatic glands of the face are particu- larly liable to inflammation, enlargement, and suppuration. In scrofula they often form im- mense swellings along the base of the jaw and about the parotid gland, sometimes remaining permanently enlarged, and sometimes suppura- ting and terminating in abscesses difficult to heal. The nerves of the face are liable to be pressed upon and irritated by the enlarged glands and by the tumours in this part of the body. The face is also subject to a most distressing com- plaint, termed tic dovlouroux, which may arise spontaneously or from injury, and which ap- pears to affect particularly, if not exclusively, the branches of the fifth pair of nerves, and