EYE. 184 considers it destitute of sensibility, and as- sumes that the pupil is dilated after death. Any anatomist may, however, demonstrate the orbicular muscle; any surgeon breaking up a cataract, may elicit the irritability, and see the pupil contract, as the fragments of the lens or the side of the needle touch its margin. The pain produced by pinching or cutting the iris in operations for cataract and artificial pupil is no longer matter of doubt, and the assumption that the pupil dilates when death takes place is disproved by daily observation. The pupd contracts to exclude light when too abundant, and dilates to admit it when deficient in quan- tity ; the heart contracts to expel the blood, and dilates to receive it; the diaphragm con- tracts to fill the lungs, and relaxes to assist in emptying them. I can see no material differ- ence between the phenomena exhibited by the actions of the iris, and those displayed by the muscular system generally. I believe that when the pupil contracts to intercept light, that con- traction is accomplished by the orbicular mus- cle, which operates as any other sphincter; and that when the pupil is dilated to admit light, the dilatation is accomplished by the con- traction of the structure, which I have said re- sembles the carnea columnm and corda tendinea in the heart. During foetal life the aperture in the centre is closed by a membrane, hence technically called membrana pupi/laris. The discovery of this membrane was first announced by VVachendorf, but was subsequently claimed by Albinus, and still later by Dr. Hunter for a person of the name of Sandys. It is usually described as existing from the earliest period of fatal life to the seventh month, when it disappears. In the paper communicated by me to the Medico- Chirurgical Society, I have endeavoured to shew that this description is not correct, but that this membrane continues to the ninth month. The account there given is as follows : " If the eye be examined about the fifth month, the membrana papillaris is found in great perfec- tion, extended across a very large pupil; the vessels presenting that singular looped arrange- ment, (with a small irregular transparent por- tion in the centre,) well depicted by Wrisberg, Blumenbach, Albinus, Sommerring, Cloquet, and others. About the sixth month it is equally perfect; the pupil is however smaller, the iris being more developed. Subsequently to this date the vessels begin to diminish in size and number, and a larger transparent portion occu- pies the centre. At the approach of the eighth month, a few vessels cross the pupil, or ramify through the membrane at a short distance from the margin, without at all presenting the looped appearance of the previous period, but ad- muting a free communication between the ves- sels of the opposite side of the iris. The pupil is now still more diminished in size, and the iris has assumed its characteristic coloured ap- pearance; notwithstanding the absence of ves- sels, the membrane still preserves its integrity, though perfectly transparent. The period now approaches when it is to disappear; this occur- rence takes place, according to my observations, a short time previous or subsequent to birth. In every instance where I have made the exa- mination, I have found the membrana papillaris existing in a greater or less degree of perfection in the new-born infant; frequently perfect without the smallest breach, sometimes pre- senting ragged apertures in several places, and, in other instances, nothing existing but a rem- nant hanging across the pupil like a cobweb. I have even succeeded in injecting a single ves- sel in the membrana papillaris of the ninth month. Where I have examined it in subjects who have lived for a week or fortnight after birth, as proved by the umbilicus being healed, I have uniformly found a few shreds still re- maining. It is obvious from the preceding observations, that the membrane does not dis- appear by a rent taking place in the centre, and retraction of the vessels to the iris, as sup- posed by Blumenbach, but that it at first loses its vascularity, then becomes exceedingly thin and delicate, and is finally absorbed. The de- monstration of what I have advanced respect- ing this delicate part is attended with much difficulty, and requires great patience. The display of the membrana papillaris of the seventh month is comparatively easy ; but at the ninth month, or subsequently, it can only be accom- plished by particular management. The eye, together with the appendages, should be care- fully removed from the head; it should then be freed from all extraneous parts by the scis- sors, under water, and a careful section made at a short distance behind the cornea; taking care to include the vitreous humour in the divi- sion, in order that the lens may remain in its proper situation. The portion to be examined should now be removed into a shallow vessel of water, to the bottom of which a piece of wax has been secured. The operator should be provided with fine dissecting forceps and nee- dles in light handles; with one needle he should pin the sclerotic down to the wax, and with the other raise the lens, and portion of vitreous humour attached to it, from the ciliary processes, and separate the ciliary ligament from the sclerotic. He may now expect to dis- cover the membrana pupillaris, but its perfect transparency renders it completely invisible; he may, however, ascertain the existence, by taking a minute particle of the retina and dropping it into the centre of the pupil, where it remains suspended if this membrane exist. The preparation should now be taken up in a watch-glass, and placed in a weak mix- ture of spirit and water, and a little pow- dered alum raised on the point of a needle dropped upon it. After a day or two it may be examined; and if the membrane be pre- sent, it has become sufficiently opaque to be visible, and may now be suspended in a bottle of very dilute spirit." In the annexed engravings, A represents the membrana pu- pillaris of about the fifth month, present- ing the peculiar looped arrangement of the vessels. B represents the membrane about the eighth month, not presenting the looped ar- rangement. C represents the membrane with a red vessel in its structure at the ninth month. D