INSECTA. 8G5 VOL. 11. 3 L and tarsi with only three joints. The larva and pupa are active, voracious, and aquatic, and like those of the Ephemera, resemble the per- fect insect. Metamorphosis incomplete. The fourth section, Termitina, have large and nearly equal sized wings, either disposed horizontally or erect, with the antennae rather long and filiform, as in Hemerobidee, lace- winged flies, or club-shaped, as in the ant-lions, Myrmelionida■. The larvae are active and pre- daceous. The ant-lion lives at the bottom of a minute pit-fall, which it digs to entrap other insects. The Hemerobius lives among crowds of Aphides, plant-lice, upon which it feeds, while the larvae of the Termites, or white ants, live in societies of almost innumerable indivi- duals. The first two of these families undergo a complete metamorphosis, and the insects in the condition of nymphs are inactive in the earlier stages of the pupa state. In the latter family the larva and pupa greatly resemble the perfect insect, and are active at every period of existence. The fifth section, Megaloptera, have the pos- terior wings rather larger than the anterior, the head and pro-thorax large and quadrate, and the antennae long and setaceous. Metamor- phosis incomplete. According to Mr. West- wood * the larva and pupa are active, and not inclosed in a case, are aquatic, and greatly re- semble the perfect insect. Order V. TRICHOPTERA. Wings four, deflexed, hairy, not reticulated ; texture slightly coriaceous ; posterior pair pli- cated, broader than the anterior; antennae very long, setaceous ; ocelli three ; maxillary palpi long ; " mouth unfitted for mastication ; man- dibles rudimental." Metamorphosis complete. The perfect insects of this Order, called by fishermen " stone-flies," \ are found on water- plants, stems of trees, and palings by the side of rivers. The larvae, the caddis, or case-worms, are aquatic, and reside in little cases which they carry about with them, and construct by uniting bits of wood, minute shells, and frag- ments of stones, which are woven together with threads of fine silk. The pupa is semi-com- plete, and quiescent during the greater part of its period, but becomes active, and creeps out of the water upon the stems of plants before changing to the perfect insect. OrderVI. HYMENOPTERA. Wings four, membranous with large areolar cells; posterior pair smaller than the anterior; antenna; longer than the head ; eyes large; ocelli three. Mandibles strong, and generally dentated ; maxillae largely developed ; labium and ligula together forming a long proboscis sheathed by the maxillae. Female armed either with a borer or sting. Metamorphosis com- plete. This Order is divided into four sections. In the first, Terebrantia, borers, the abdo- men is sessile or united to the thorax by its * Introdnct. to Entom. vol. ii. p. 23. t YarreU's British Fishes, vol. ii. p. 84. whole breadth. In one family, the saw-flies, (fig. 355, d), the abdomen is armed with two serrated partially concealed plates, with which the insect cuts through the bark or pierces the leaves of plants to deposit her eggs. In ano- ther family, Urocerida, the true borers, the ab- domen is armed with a strong projecting cylin- drical spiculum, which is grooved on its under surface, and contains two smaller dentated spi- cula, analogous to the plates of the saw-fly, with which the insect bores into timber- trees and deposits its eggs. The larvae are active and extremely voracious. Those of the saw-flies, pseudo-caterpillars (Jig. 355, a,) de- vour the leaves of plants, and are sometimes exceedingly injurious to the agriculturist, as has been the case with those of Athalia eenti- folice to the turnip crops during the last few summers,* while the larvae of Urucerida are said to be equally destructive to living trees.f In the second section, Pnpophaga, the ich- neumon flies, the body is long and slender, and the abdomen is petiolated, or connected only by a constricted neck with the thorax, and the antennae are long and setaceous. The larvae are apodal, and are parasitic on other insects. In the third section, Aculeata, the body is short and pedunculated, and furnished with a true aculeus, which is used as a weapon of de- fence. The larvae are apodal, are fed. by the parent or by sterile females, and generally re- side in cells. Some species are solitary, and feed their young with the bodies of other in- sects, Crabronida ; others live in society, and are either omnivorous, as the Formicidit, ants, and Vespida, hornets (fig. 346) and wasps, or Fig. 346. Vespa crabro. The Hornet. (Samouelle.) mellivorous, as the humble and hive bees, (Apida), which feed their young upon a mix- ture of pollen and honey. In the fourth section, Tubitlifera, the body is short, slightly convex, and often compressed laterally; the posterior wings are almost en- tirely destitute of nervures, and the abdomen is * Prize Essay of the Entomological Society on the Anatomy, Habits, and Economy of Athalia centifolia, 1838, by G. Newport. t Westwood, Introd. &c. vol. ii. p. 119. Mr. Ruddon in Trans. Entomological Society, vol. i. p. Ixxitv.