452 GENERATION. constitutes the cicatricula or germinal disc is easily seen in the larger ovula, occupying almost always the same position on the surface of the yolk, somewhere near the pedicle of the ovarian capsule. When the cicatricula is examined carefully in the ovulum, a small dark round spot is perceived in its centre, the relations of which to the first production of the foetus are very important. This little dark spot was discovered by Purkinje to contain im- planted in the centre of the cicatricula a minute transparent vesicle filled with fluid. He farther shewed that during the passage of the ovulum from the capsule of the ovary into the infun- dibulum of the oviduct, this little vesicle dis- appears, being probably burst, and leaves in its place a thin and tender transparent mem- brane. The vesicle of Purkinje, as it is called from its discoverer, occupies then the centre of the germinal spot, and it is in the transparent membrane left in its place when the vesicle is dispelled that the first rudiments of -the foetus afterwards make their appearance. Hence the vesicle has also received the name of germinal vesicle, a most appropriate term, since it may be regarded as the more immediate seat of the germ or germinating faculty of the egg. The Purkinjean or germinal vesicle exists in the smallest as well as in the more advanced ovula of the fowl's ovary, and it is proportion- ally much larger in small than in large ovula. In the very small ovula it is not, as in the riper ones, situated on the surface of the yolk, but towards the centre of that body; and as the ovu- lum advances to perfection, the germinal vesicle gradually approaches more near the surface, and becomes more prominent on the surface of the cicatricula. In ovula less than two lines in diameter the vesicle is usually unconnected with the germinal layer or cicatricula, but in those of four lines in diameter it is already placed in the middle of the germinal spot. In all oviparous animals a vesicle, simi- lar to that now described in the common fowl, occupies the central part of the germinal layer so long as the ovulum remains in the ovary, and undergoes the same rupture and other changes at the time of the discharge of the ovulum from the ovary.* In turning now to mammiferous or vivipa- rous animals, it may be remarked in the first place, that although the extremely minute size of the body discovered by Baer to be constantly present in the ovarian vesicle prevents us from observing it with ease, and establishing with certainty its analogy to the yolk and its accom- panying parts in the egg of the fowl before deve- lopment begins; yet after the commencement * Purkinje's description of this vesicle was first given in his excellent " Symbolae ad ovi ovium historiam ante incubationem, Vratisl. 1825," and second edition at Leipzig, in 1830. Baer contri- buted in his " Epistola" many important facts concerning its existence and changes in other ovi- parous animals. Coste, Valentin, and Wagner have since added several observations. We may state here that the bursting of the vesicle does not occur in all oviparous animals exactly at the time of the escape of the ovulum from the ovary, but nearly about the same time. of foetal formation, the early changes which this body undergoes prove its correspondence with the ovum of birds in a most satisfactory manner. We have already, however, stated the reasons for regarding the vesicle of Baer as the ovulum of mammalia, and need not now recapitulate them. We shall only remark that although the vesicle of Baer and ovulum of birds differ widely in size, that vesicle appears to contain the same essential parts of the egg belonging to birds and other oviparous animals, viz. a fluid granular mass or yolk enclosed by an in- vesting membrane, and furnished also with a more compact granular layer situated on the surface of the yolk, but also enveloped by its membrane, in which the rudiments of the fcetus first appear, and which is, therefore, the germinal layer of the mammiferous ovum. The membranes of the ovarian vesicle in mammalia and the capsules of the ovary in the fowl are corresponding parts, and the prin- cipal difference between the ovarian' cavities containing ovula in oviparous animals, and those of viviparous animals, consists in this, that in the latter the ovulum (the vesicle of Baer) is placed in the granular proligerous disc, and has all the fluid of the vesicle interposed between it and the coats of this cavity. At the time when Baer first discovered the ovulum of mammalia, there was still wanting, in order to complete the proof of its analogy witli the ovulum of birds, the observation of the ger- minal vesicle (vesicle of Purkinje) within it. This additional proof has been supplied within the last few years by the researches of T. W. Jones, Coste, Purkinje, Valentin, and Wag- ner, which we have ourselves confirmed. The germinal vesicle of the very small ovu- lum of quadrupeds is of course a most minute object, and in fact it can only be seen with a good microscope; but in favourable circum- stances it is nevertheless quite distinct, and the investigations above referred to, conjoined with analogical evidence, make it highly pro- bable that the little vesicle found within the ovulum of viviparous animals occupies the place in which the foetus first makes its ap- pearance, and that at the time of the passage of the ovulum from the ovary to the Fallopian tube this little vesicle is burst, and undergoes analogous changes to those which have been noticed in the fowl.* In birds the shell with its lining membrane forms the external covering of the egg; and in all oviparous animals a similar external enve- lope (besides the membrane enclosing the yolk) is to be found, though varying greatly in thick- ness, consistence, and structure in different animals. The ovum of mammalia at the time * In his " Epistola," published in 1827, Baer compared the vesicle he had discovered within the Graafian vesicles of the ovary to the vesicle which Purkinje had in 1825 discovered in the cicatricula of the fowl's yolk: erroneously as we think; for the facts mentioned above are sufficient to disprove any such analogy. For the sake of clearness we here subjoin a tabular view of the parts which correspond with one another in the bird and quad- ruped.