FOETUS. 325 regarding it as simply the result of inflamma- tion and gangrene. Haller evidently was not aware of any such case, for although he gives a long list of extraordinary mutilations of the fcetus, he considers them as the result of im- perfect development or malformation, and not of separation or removal of parts alreadyformed ; for he expressly objects to the authors who have furnished such descriptions, that they cannot even quote one instance in which " manus truncata, aliusve artus, in membranis fcetus seorsim a corpore, repertus sit."* Having sought with diligence through authors, the only cases which I have been able to find are those which I shall now briefly mention. In the 54th volume of the Lond. Med. Phys. Journ. Mr. Watkinson states, that being in attendance on a lady twenty years of age in her first labour, which was natural and easy, he discovered, on the birth of the child, that the left foot had been amputated a little above the ankle, and the part was nearly but not quite healed, the bones protruding a little. The child was alive, but survived only a few minutes; on making further search the ampu- tated foot was found in utero, and it, also, was nearly healed. There did not appear to have been any haemorrhage from the limb; the sepa- rated foot was much smaller than the other; it shewed no mark of putrefaction, but appeared to be in a state of perfect preservation, not being even discoloured. The mother had not met with any accident nor any particular mental emotion, and she was sufficiently independent to render unnecessary any over-exertion on her part. Mr. Watkinson offers no opinion on the nature or cause of the accident. The annexed sketch represents the condition of the parts. Fig. 154. Chaussierf mentions having examined two cases in which separation of a part of the fore- arm had taken place before birth, and in a third case he found the separated portion of the arm and hand lying apart, and the stump of the limb healed. * Elemcnta Physiologic, t. viii. p. 135. t Discours prononc6 a 1'Hospice de la Maternite, 1812. Chaussier also attributes the accident to gan- grene as the cause which would most obviously account for its production, though it does not appear from his account that there were present any of the pathological evidences of that con- dition ; and in the case first related the child was born alive, and it is expressly mentioned that neither the stump of the limb nor the part amputated shewed any symptom of disorganiza- tion or disease, not being even discoloured. The next case was one occurring in my own practice, and appears to me of great importance as exhibiting the amputation absolutely in pro- gress, under the influence of the agent which I believe to be the general, and, most probably, the invariable cause of its occurrence. About eight years since I attended a patient under circumstances of considerable danger from haemorrhage attending abortion in the fiftli month, and on the expulsion of the fcetus its singular conformation fortunately attracted my attention strongly, and induced me to examine it with care. The head was mis-shapen and monstrous, the brain covered only by integu- ment, and towering upwards like a helmet over the head; but the circumstance deserving of especial notice was the appearance of com- plete ligaments surrounding the limbs, and on examining them closely I found that they con- sisted of distinct threads, passing from both hands downwards to the legs (seefig. 155); at one end, Fig. 155. each of these threads or fine cords had formed a complete ligature round the middle of each hand, causing a distinct depression where it passed, the part of the hand below it being almost completely undeveloped. From the hands these cords descended towards the legs, which were crossed, and surrounding them in this position just above the ankles, compressed them so tightly that fully two-thirds of their whole thickness were thereby divided, without, however, causing any breach in the skin; nor