HEART. 606 distention of the auricle, as any one may easily satisfy himself by repeating the experiment. Besides, the distention of the auricles by the blood flowing along the veins is too gradual for this sudden and rapid impulse of the heart; nay more,—the impulse may be observed when no blood is flowing into the auricles. Sabatier* believed that this impulse depends upon two causes,—1st, principally upon the distention of the auricles, more particularly the left; and, 2dly, upon the curvature of the large arteries. Apparently, however, perceiving the necessity of there being a sudden distention of the auri- cles to produce this, he supposed that this was effected by the auriculo-ventricular valves. He argued that, as these valves during the diastole of the heart form a cone stretching from the base towards the point of the ventricle, which is full of blood when the systole commences, when the valves are carried upwards to ob- struct the auriculo-ventricular orifices, this blood is pushed before them into the auricles, producing a reflux into the auricles, which, with the blood flowing along the cava; and pul- monary veins, causes a sudden distention of the auricles, which pushes the ventricle forwards.f Meckel appears to have adopted the opinions of Sabatier. We need not repeat our objec- tions to this explanation. Dr. Alison, per- ceiving the insufficiency of all these explana- tions, has for a considerable time past sug- gested in his lectures, that this might be ex- plained by the arrangement of the fibres, " more particularly by the irregular cone which they form, beingJluttened posteriorly, and by the consequent greater mass of fibres on the anterior surface." More lately Mr. Carlisle + has also attempted to explain this by the greater length of the anterior fibres of the heart than of the posterior. As the shape of the ventricles is an oblique cone, and as they have their long- est sides in front, he argues, " that it is a law of muscular contraction that fibres are shortened during their contraction in proportion to their length when relaxed. For instance, if a fibre one inch long lose by contraction one- fourth of its length, or one quarter of an inch, a fibre two inches in length will lose one inch by contractions of equal intensity. The apex then does not approach the base in the line of the axis of the ventricles, but is drawn more to the side of the longer fibres, that is, towards the front, thus producing the tilting forwards." We believe that it may be proved on mechani- cal principles, that though the anterior and left surfaces of the ventricles are considerably longer than those on the posterior and right, yet during their contraction, when they are drawn towards their fixed attachments, if the fibres are of equal thickness, the apex will be drawn up nearly in the diagonal of the two forces, and that if any tilting upwards of the apex take place, this will be only to a small extent, and * Traite complct d'Anatomie, torn. ii. p. 230. t Dr. Bostock has failed of his usual accuracy in detailing the opinion of Sabatier on this ques- tion. X Transactions of British Scientific Association, vol. iii. Dublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. iv. be quite insufficient to account for the impulse felt at the chest. We must therefore look to some other circumstances besides a mere diffe- rence in length of the two surfaces to account for this. Mr. Alderson* has ingeniously at- tempted to apply the law of action and reaction between bodies,—one of considerable import- ance in mechanical philosophy, and upon which Barker's centrifugal mill has been constructed. Unfortunately, however, for this explanation, the axes of the large arteries and the direction in which the apex is tilted do not by any means accord. Dr. Hope's supposition that " the re- tropulsion of the auricular valves" may assist in producing this impulse, " as these act on a column of blood which offers a greater resist- ance than the weight of the heart, the action is reflected on the organ itself and impels it for- wards," is, on the other hand, completely op- posed to the law that action and reaction are the same. As well may a man attempt to pro- pel a boat by standing in the stern, and push with an oar against the prow. Dr. Filhos attri- buted the impulse to the spiral turns of the fibres at the apex of the heart attempting to straighten themselves during their contraction, and so raise themselves suddenly and throw themselves forwards. The objections to this explanation are so palpable that they must occur to every one. Since the tilting of the apex of the heart forwards is observed after the blood has ceased to flow through its cavities, it is obvious that we must look for the cause of this in the arrangement of the muscular fibres themselves, though it may be difficult to point out that particular arrangement. It appears to me that the distribution of some of the strong bands of fibres, the course of which I have already described when treating of the muscu- lar tissue of the heart, may satisfactorily account for it. We there pointed out that several strong bands of fibres arise from the base of the septum between the ventricles, pass downwards and form part of the septum, then emerge from the anterior longitudinal groove {fig. 274, d), and wind round in a spiral manner to form both the anterior and posterior part of the lower portion of the heart. On entering the apices of the ventricles, (principally the left,) the fibres are scattered over their inner surfaces, and while a great number of them go directly to be inserted into the tendinous rings, others form part of the columnar carnea?. We have thus strong bands of fibres attached by one extremity (their septal extremity) to the base of the ventricles at a point pretty far posterior, while at the other ex- tremity many of the fibres are loose, or at least only attached to the tendinous rings through the media of the chordae tendinea? and valves, which must admit of a certain degree of con- traction of these fibres before they become tense. At each systole of the heart when these fibres act, it is evident that the tendinous rings must form the fixed points towards which all these fibres contract; and since they are by one ex- tremity all closely and directly connected to a * Quarterly Journal of Science, &c. vol. xviii. p. 223.