IWSECTA. 891 Fig. 371. Antennae, from Burmeister, 3/eigen, Paly, and Hope. M, antenna of Melolontlta folio; 1, scapus ; 2, pedicella; 3, clavus ; 3*, the lamina;. called setaceous (fig. 371, A), but when, as in some of the Locustidce, each joint is much smal- ler than the preceding and is angulated at its sides, the. whole forming a sword-like organ, it is called ensiform (B). When all the joints of the clavola are of uniform thickness, as in the Carabidte, (fig. 329,) the antenna is said to be filiform (fig. 371, C), but when the joints are of equal size, but are globular or rounded, as in the Tenebrionida (Jig. 340), it is called jnoniliform (jig. 371, D). When the joints, as in some of the Elateridte, (fig. 334,) ap- pear like inverted triangles, with the inner margin more produced than the outer, they are said to be serrated (fig. 371, E), and when, as in the Prionidce, the acute base of each joint is inserted into the middle of the broad apex of the joint behind it, imbricated (F). When every joint is developed on one side into a spine or process, the organ is said to be pectinated (G); and when a spine or process is developed on each side of the joints, bipectinaled (&). In like manner it is called pli/mose(N) when each joint producesone or more rami which are themselves minutely pectinated, as in many of the Bombycidir; and when, as in Hemirr/iipus fiabellicornis and other Elaterida, each process from a joint is flattened, and is nearly as long as the whole of the succeeding joints taken together, and the whole form a fan-shaped organ, the antenna is called Jiabel- late (I). But when, as in the true beetles, Pentamera, the clavola ends in a true capi- tulum or knob, it is said to be donate (K), or capitate (L), according as the knob is gra- dually or suddenly formed at the extremity of the organ. In Hydrous the capitulum exists in that form which is designated perfoliate, in which the joints of the club are separated a little from each other by a minute foot-stalk. This form exists also in the Necrophori, and in a less degree in the clavated antenna of other Silphida. It is in some of the Lamellicornes, the Scarabceida, Geotrvpidte, Dynastida, and Melolonthidx, that the antenna? reach a degree of completeness which seems to indicate the real use of the organs. Thus in the Melolon- thidte (M), the capitulum is divided into seven laminae, which may either be applied closely together, or be widely expanded at the plea- sure of the insect. In the Dynastida and Geotrupida the capitulum is formed of only three laminae, the two outer ones being convex externally, but flat on their internal surface, while the intermediate one is flat on both sur- faces, the flat surfaces of each being more delicately organized than the hard corneous exterior. A similar structure exists also in the Scarabteidaz. When the insect is in motion the antennae are stretched out, and the laminae are expanded to their fullest extent, but by many species are immediately retracted on the occurrence of any loud or sudden noise. These are the usual forms of the antennae, but in some species they are subject to much greater variation. Thus, in the remarkable order Strepsiptera (fig. 347), each antenna has a distinct lobe at its base. This is also the case in some of the Muscida (N), in which the filamentous portion of the antenna represents the true clavola, and the club-shaped portion of the organ is simply an appendage. A simi- lar deviation from the usual structure occurs in some Coleoptera,more particularly in the smal- ler water-beetles. Thus, in the Gyrinidit, the true pcdicella is developed into a large ear- shaped cup, which nearly covers the clavola. In another insect, Globaria Leachii, Latr. very beautifully figured in the recent work of the Rev. F. W. Hope,* the pedicella, (O, 2) instead of being a small rounded joint, is elongated like the scapus (1), while the cla- vola (3) ends in a large capitulum, attached laterally to the base of the fifth joint and di- rected backwards. These are a few of the variations which occur in the form of these * The Coleouterist's Manual, part ii. tab. tig. 6. 1U38.