HIBERNATION. 768 que les chauves-souris produisent habituelle- ment moins de chaleur que les animaux a sang chaud, et que c'est principalement a cette cause qu'il faut attribuer l'abaissement de leur tempe- rature pendant la saison froide. En comparant cette experience sur la chauve-souris adulte avec celles que nous avons faites sur les jeunes animaux a sang chaud, on y apercoit un rap- port remarquable; ils ne produisent pas assez de chaleur pour soutenir une temperature elevee, lorsque l'air est a un degre voisin de zero. Mais il y a cette difference, que c'est un £tat passager chez les jeunes animaux a sang chaud, et qu'il est permanent chez les chauves- souris. " II est evident que les autres mammiferes hibernans doivent participer plus ou moins de cette maniere d'etre. Les faits que j'ai exposes suffisent pour nous faire considerer ce groupe d'animaux sous le point de vue suivant; qu'au printemps et en ete, dans leur ttat d'activite et de veille, lorsque leur temperature est assez elevee pour ne pas diflerer essentiellement de celle qui caracterise les animaux a sang chaud, ils n'ont pas la faculte de produire autant de chaleur; et tout en admettant que d'autres causes peuvent influer sur leur refroidissement pendant leur hibernation, il faut cependant l'attribuer en grande partie a cette particularite de leur constitution." * There are, in fact, these differences between the young and the hibernating animal: 1. the former cannot, when exposed alone to severe cold, maintain its own temperature ; if the lat- ter appears to be in the same case, it is only because it has become affected with its peculiar lethargy; in its state of wakefulness and activity it maintains its usual elevated temperature in the same manner as other adult animals ; 2. the young animal, in losing its temperature, be- comes affected, not, like the hibernating animal, with lethargy, but with torpor, a totally diffe- rent and a pathological condition which gene- rally proves fatal. I must conclude these re- marks by observing that I think the eminent physiologist whom I have quoted has assimi- lated the condition of the very young animal and the adult hibernating animal erroneously. The mere phenomenon of loss of temperature is the same; but the rationale of this pheno- menon, its causes and its effects, are totally different. III. Of perfect hibernation.—I now proceed to treat of perfect hibernation, of its causes, and of its effects on the various functions which I have enumerated. My observations will con- sist principally of a detail of a series of obser- vations and experiments made in the course of the year 1831-1832, compared with the results obtained by other inquirers. I consider that there is one special cause of hibernation,—that law imposed by the Creator, according to which all animals become affected with sleep at some period of each revolving day, and the hibernating animal at some period of the revolving year. We have thus presented to us the phenomena of diurnal and nocturnal * Des Agens Physiques, p. 155. animals, and the winter-sleep and the summer- sleep of hibernating animals. Exposure to cold, not too severe, disposes to hibernation, as it disposes to ordinary sleep. Severe cold, on the contrary, first rouses the hibernating animal from its lethargy, and then plunges this and all animals into a state of fatal torpor. The absence of every kind of stimulus or ex- citant, and a somewhat confined atmosphere,* also conduce to hibernation. Every excitement, on the contrary, that of hunger, that of the sexes probably, tend to dis- turb this peculiar lethargy. It is in this man- ner that we explain the periodicity of sleep and hibernation, though there is probably also some hidden influence of the seasons, of the day or of the year, influences which have been traced by Dr. Prout and by M. Edwards in regard to the quantity of respiration. I now proceed to treat of the condition of the several functions in hibernation. The process of sanguification is, in some hibernating animals, nearly arrested ; in others, it is entirely so. There is much difference in the powers of digestion, and in the fact of omitting to take food, in the hibernation of different animals. The bat, being insectivorous, would awake in vain; no food could be found : the hedgehog might obtain snails or worms, if the ground were not very hard from frost: the dormouse would find less difficulty in meeting with grain and fruits. We accordingly observe a remark- able difference in the habits of awaking from their lethargy or hibernation, in these different animals. I have observed no disposition to awake at all in the bat, except from external warmth or excite- ment. If the temperature be about 40° or 45°, the hedgehog, on the other hand, awakes, after various intervals of two, three, or four days passed in lethargy, to take food ; and again re- turns to its state of hibernation. The dor- mouse, under similar circumstances, awakes daily. Proportionate to the disposition to awake and take food, is the state of the functions of the stomach, bowels and kidneys. The dor- mouse and the hedgehog pass the faeces and urine in abundance during their intervals of activity. The bat is scarcely observed to have any excretions during its continued lethargy. In the dormouse and the hedgehog, the sense of hunger appears to rouse the animal from its hibernation, whilst the food taken conduces to a return of the state of lethargy. It has already been observed, that there are alternations be- tween activity and lethargy in this animal, with the taking of food, in temperatures about 40° or 45°. Nevertheless, abstinence doubtless con- duces to hibernation, by rendering the system * M. de Saissy observes, " la marmotte, que j'ai engourdie par deux fois differentes, ne l'a ete, je crois, que parceque je me suis avise, quand la re- spiration a ete bien affaiblie, de boucher le trou du couvercle. Ce n'a ete que de cette maniere que je suis parvenu a l'engourdir; car toutes les tentatives que j'avais faites avant out ete vaines."