299 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. states M that several very delicate filaments go from the carotid plexus to the semilunar gan- glion, particularly to the first and third branches of the nerve, and upon those points the gan- glionic matter is accumulated in greater abun- dance."* Besides this connection between the sympathetic and the ganglion, others exist between it and the branches of the ganglion. The ganglion appears to constitute an essen- tial part of the fifth nerve throughout verte- brate animals, and to be uniformly present. It also presents in all the common character of being composed both of white and cineri- tious matter, though the comparative amount of the two constituents vanes according to the class, the order, or even the individual. The presence of the two structures the author would regard as essential to the constitution of cerebro-spinal ganglia, and he would ex- clude from such those enlargements presented by nerves in certain situations, but from which cineritious matter appears to be absent. In Mammalia, Birds, and Reptiles, the fifth nerve is provided with a single ganglion, but in Fish and in both orders of that class it possesses for the mosi part two ganglia and two gan- glionic fasciculi; this however is not uniformly so, for in some, e. g. the lophius piscatorius, the ganglion is single. Vital Properties of the Fifth Pair of Nerves. — The discussion of the vital properties of the fifth nerve the writer pro- poses may be fitly arranged under the following heads: 1. its sensibility; 2. its influence upon the faculties of sensation and volition, as also upon the ordinary sensibility of the parts to which it is distributed; 3. its relation to the special senses and connection with the function of nutrition. 1. Sensibility.—Numerous experiments per- formed and repeated by different physiologists have established the fact, that the filth nerve enjoys exquisite sensibility. Bell appears to have been the first who directed attention particularly to this point: in his paper, pub- lished in the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1821, it is stated that, touching the su- perior maxillary branch of the fifth nerve, when exposed in an ass, " gave acute pain." In the first of Mayo's experiments upon the fifth nerve, published in his Commentaries in 1822, it was also found that " on pinching the opposite extremities" (those connected with the brain) " of the infraorbital and inferior maxillary nerves in an ass, the animal struggled violently as at the moment of dividing the nerves: these latter results uniformly attend the division of the nerves above-mentioned, and of that branch of the fifth which joins the portio dura."! Similar results were obtained by the writer last quoted from experiments of the same description upon the dog and the rabbit, and upon the pigeon, in regard to the first division of the fifth. He also found " that on pinching the gustatory nerves in living rabbits pain was evinced." Magendie * Journ. Compl. torn. xxiv. t Commentaries, No. 1, p. 110. carried the inquiry farther, and in the fourth volume* of the Journal of Physiology, has related an experiment in which he exposed the fifth nerve within the cranium in the rabbit and dog, and found that the slightest touch produced signs of acute sensibility. From the preceding facts we infer that the ganglionic portion of the nerve at least is exquisitely sensitive, and that it is endowed with sen- sibility through its entire extent: further, the experiment of Magendie indicates that the sen- sibility of the nerve is proper and independent of the influence of other nerves, he having ex- perimented upon it at a point prior to its junction with any other. With regard to the non-ganglionic portion of the nerve, our data are at present altogether analogical: it is so situated that satisfactory experiments upon it separately are hardly to be accomplished, so that we are left to infer of it as probable what has been ascertained of other non-ganglionic nervous cords, viz. the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. The question in regard to the functions of the different portions of the spinal nerves has been inquired into by Magendie, by whom the endowments of both sets of roots have been tested in various modes, and who has inferred that the anterior roots are not devoid of sen- sibility, and if they be sensitive it is probable that the lesser packet of the fifth is sensitive also.f 2. Influence of the fifth nerve upon sensation and volition.— It is hardly necessary to remark that this point has been the subject of much dispute, as well with regard to the fact itself as to the relative claims of the several inquirers to whom we are indebted for the investigation of the matter: however, physiologists now seem to be generally agreed that the nerve is one of compound function, being subservient to both the faculties of sensation and volition, and that the faculty of sensation is dependent upon its ganglionic, that of voluntary motion upon its non-ganglionic portion, and that it thus resembles the spinal nerves. That the nerve is one of compound function, and sub- servient to the two faculties, was announced by Bell in the paper already alluded to. He there distinguishes the nerves into two classes ; one original and symmetrical, the other super- added and irregular. To the former class he refers the spinal nerves, the suboccipital, and the fifth nerve, and assigns to them the fol- lowing characters, namely, they hive all double origins ; they have all ganglia on one of their roots ; they go out laterally to certain divisions of the body; they do not interfere to unite the divisions of the frame; thei/ are all mus- cular nerves, ordering the voluntary motions of the frame ; they are all exquisitely sensible, and the source of the common sensibility of the surfaces of the body: to ii he refers the nerves of the spine, the suboccipital, and the fifth nerve.I It has been already stated that * P. 314. t Journal tie Physiologie, t. ii. p. 368. X Philosophical Transactions, 1821, p. 404.