175 EYE. situation; but that there is no general thick- ening in this part from this cause is proved by the thinness of the membrane in the inter- vals between and beneath these tendons. The consequence of this greater thinness of the membrane anteriorly is, that when the eyeball is ruptured by a blow, the laceration takes place at a short distance from the cornea. In animals in whom the eyeball deviates much from a true sphere, as in the horse, ox, sheep, and above all, in the whale, the sclerotic is much thicker posteriorly than anteriorly, being in the latter animal from three quarters to an inch in thickness, while it is not more than a line at its junction with the cornea. The rea- son for the existence of this provision is, that the form of the perfect sphere is preserved by the uniform resistance of the contents, but when these contents are spherical in one part, and flattened in another, the external case must pos- sess strength sufficient to preserve this irregu- larity of form. It is remarkable that this strength is conferred in the class mammalia by giving to the sclerotic increase of thickness, the fibrous structure remaining nearly the same in its nature, while in birds, reptiles, and fishes, the requisite strength is derived from the pre- sence of a cartilaginous cup or portion of sphere, disposed within a very thin fibrous sclerotic. This cartilaginous sclerotic, as it is often called in the books, exists, as far as 1 have been able to ascertain, in these three classes, and is in some individuals very remarkable. In birds it is thin and flexible, giving a degree of elasticity, which distinguishes the eyeball in this class. In fishes, as has been observed by Cuvier and others, the cartilage is always present, and is particularly thick in the sturgeon; it is even osseous in some, as the sea-bream, from the eye of which animal I have often obtained it in the form of a hard crust by putrefactive maceration. Among the reptiles the turtle presents a good example of this structure. Where the deviation from the spherical form is very great, as in birds, additional provision is made to sustain the form of the organ. This consists of a series of small osseous plates ar- ranged in a circle round the margin of the cor- nea, lapping over each other at the edges, and intimately connected with the fibrous and car- tilaginous layers of the sclerotic. A similar provision exists in* the turtle, and also in the chameleon, and many other lizards, but not perhaps so neatly and perfectly arranged as in birds. It is found in the great fossil reptiles Ichthyosaurus and Plesiosaurus. The sclerotic, like other fibrous membranes, being inelastic and unyielding, does not be- come stretched when fluids accumulate in the eyeball in consequence of inflammation, or in other words, the eyeball does not become en- larged from effusion of serum or secretion of purulent matter into its chambers. To this probably may be attributed the intolerable torture and sense of tension experienced when the eyeball suppurates, as well as the severe pain extending to the temple in some forms of inflammation. The pain in such cases must not, however, be wholly attributed to this dis- tension of an unyielding membrane. The fibrous membranes in general, when affected by rheumatic or arthritic inflammation, become acutely sensible, and the cause of much suffer- ing ; and the sclerotic, when similarly affected, acquires the same description of painful sen- sibility, apparently independent of distension from effusion. In certain forms of inflam- mation and other morbid changes of the eyeball, the sclerotic appears to yield to distension, as in scrofulous inflammation and hydrophthalmia ; but this is not a mechanical stretching, but an alteration in structure at- tended witli a thinning of the membrane, and consequent alteration in the shape of the globe. It appears that the cornea and sclerotic are peculiarly, if not in many instances almost ex- clusively, the seat of the disease in chronic scrofulous inflammation of the eyeball. This inference may, I think, be justly drawn from the fact, that in such cases the sclerotic becomes so much thinned that the dark choroid projects in the form of a tumour, and the eye loses its spherical form ; yet the pupil remains regular, the lens transparent, and the retina sensible to light. When the cornea is destroyed by slough or ulceration in severe ophthalmia, allowing the lens and more or less of the vitreous hu- mour to escape, the sclerotic does not accom- modate itself to the diminished contents by a uniform contraction, but merely falls in ; and when the eye has been completely emptied, it is found many years after the injury folded up into a small irregular mass in the bottom of the orbit. When the organization of the eye is completely destroyed by idiopathic, rheumatic, or syphilitic inflammation, the sclerotic becomes flaccid, and the whole eyeball soft, allovfing the contraction of the four straight muscles to produce corresponding depressions, and thus convert the sphere into a form somewhat cu- bical. Of the cornea.—This is the transparent body which fills the circular aperture in the anterior part of the spherical sclerotic; it is called cornea from its supposed resemblance to transparent horn,and cornea transparent in contradistinction to the sclerotic, which, as has been stated, is called cornea opaca. It is generally described as a transparent structure, serving to the eye the same purpose as the crystal to the watch; but this is not a correct comparison : the crystal merely transmits the light without changing the direction of the rays ; the cornea, whether it be considered in itself a lens, or as the sphe- rical surface of the aqueous humour, refracts the rays and causes them to converge to a focus. Haller, although he does not directly say that it is a lens, yet states that if held over ■a book it magnifies the letters, which of course results from its lenticular form; and Cuvier and Biot distinctly call it a meniscus. On the other hand, the Sommerrings, both father and son, describe it as a mere segment of a sphere, the curve of the convexity corresponding to that of the concavity, as in the watch crystal. I consider it to be a lens and a meniscus. If it be removed from the eye a short time after death with a portion of the sclerotic, and dipped in water to smooth its surfaces, it magnifies ob- jects when held between them and the eye, as