266 FIBROUS TISSUE. as the valves are designed by nature to be separated only to a limited extent, an elastic ligamentous structure is placed between them towards their centre, and in this manner all undue separation is prevented without any demand being made on the force of the ad- ductor muscle.* Morbid anatomy. I. Inflammation.— The low degree of organization possessed by this tissue modifies the inflammatory process, which is usually chronic in its nature, and often extremely insidious in its progress; occa- sionally, however, as in sprains, acute rheu- matism, &c, the fibrous organs are the seat of very active disease. Owing to their great density, but little swelling takes place unless there be chronic and prolonged inflammation ; in which case, as is particularly observed in disease of the joints, a quantity of jelly-like fluid is poured into the interstitial cellular tissue, the proper fibres become massed toge- ther and with the surrounding parts, till in the advanced stage all traces of the original for- mation being lost in the diseased mass, it be- comes reduced to the pulpy consistence of diseased cellular membrane, of which the healthy structure is a modification. This deposit and thickening are the most common products of inflammation in liga- mentous parts; but it occasionally happens that a true abscess is formed, as when pus is thrown out between the dura mater and cra- nium. I have known one case connected with disease of the bone, in which matter was de- posited in the substance of the dura mater, and in which the operation of trephining was ultimately required for the relief of the patient. Ulceration is a frequent result of scrophu- lous disease of the joints, causing great ravages in the ligaments and neighbouring parts. Mortification of ligament is not a common occurrence, whilst in the acute inflammation of tendon, especially in neglected thecal ab- scess, and of fascia in consequence of large abscess under it, sloughing is not unfrequently witnessed. There are of course certain modifications in the effects of inflammation according to the part attacked. Thus, in ligament, there is a great tendency to ulceration; in tendon to mortification; in the periosteum to great in- duration ; and, as we see in the formation of a node and of callus, to a transformation into cartilage and even bone. When fascia is the seat of disease, the consolidation arising from effusion often gives rise to a retraction of the affected part; a result which has been observed, for example, in inflammation of the aponeu- * Leach, Bullet, des Sciences, 1818. P. 14. [Mr. Hunter fully recognised the value of this elastic tissue, and in his Museum he set apart a series for its illustration under two classes—1st, as an antagonist to muscle, and 2d, in aid of mus- cular action. In the former class he places such examples as that of the oyster alluded to in the text, in the latter the ligamenta nuchae and the elastic fibrous expansion on the abdomen of the elephant and other larger quadrupeds. See the Descriptive and Illustrated Catalogue of the Hun- terian Museum, vol. i.—Ed.] rosis of the fore-arm, and in that affection of the palmar fascia called by Boyer and other writers crispatura tendinum* II. Cartilaginous transformation and ossi- fication.—Many parts of the fibrous system not unfrequently become cartilaginous or even osseous. The cartilaginous transformation is often observed in the ligaments of diseased and anchylosed joints; in the periosteum after fractures and in the formation of nodes; in tendons, especially those which are exposed to great friction in the fibrous covering of the spleen. I have had opportunities of seeing many specimens of cartilaginous deposit taking place between the periosteum and the bone, and evidently arising from the former. The valuable collection of my friend Mr. Listen contains a very fine specimen of a large carti- laginous tumour proceeding from the peri- osteum. Ossification, although extremely common, occurs much more frequently in some than in other classes of these organs: thus it is often met with in the dura mater, in which structure, as far as I have observed, the bony excres- cence always proceeds from the inner layer or that towards the arachnoid, and consequently presses against the brain. In one very re- markable specimen in my possession, nearly the whole of the falx, and a large extent of the membrane attached to the vault of the cranium, are completely ossified. In an instance, ob- served I believe by Dr. Barlow (Southwark), the heart was completely encased in bone, owing to the entire ossification of the peri- cardium. The cicatrix of a wounded tendon is often osseous. III. Fungus.—The dura mater, the peri- osteum, the fascia, &c, are subject to excres- cences having a fungoid appearance, which vary in their nature, often consisting of a chronic, indolent growth, whilst at other times they are evidently scrophulous, and occasion- ally they are malignant. In the progress of those cases where the disease is situated near the bones, these organs are implicated, and some doubt has conse- quently arisen concerning the first seat of the disease ; it is, however, proved by examination that in the fungus of the dura mater and other fibrous parts, the bones are only secondarily affected. A good illustration of this fact is afforded by a preparation consisting of an extensive fungus arising from the periosteum covering the tibia, in which it is evident, al- * Boyer, Traite des Malad. Chir. torn. v. p. 55. This peculiar affection was some years since pointed out by Sir A. Cooper, and has since been more fully described by Baron Dupuytren, (Lecons Orales de Chir. Clin. torn. i. p. 2). The tension and contrac- tion of the palmar fascia, which are usually caused by continued pressure, give rise to aretraction of one or more of the fingers, and may be removed by transversely and freely dividing the aponeurosis opposite to the metacarpo phalangean joint. I have known one case of similar induration of the fibrous sheath of the corpus cavcrnosum penis; and I have learnt from Sir A. Cooper that he has seen several such cases, occurring in persons who had freely indulged in sexual intercourse. Boyer has made a similar observation.