GLUTEAL REGION. 501 passed into the substance of the great gluteus muscle; these are from the gluteal and ischiatic arteries, and appear principally at the upper and posterior part of the gluteus medius; 2d, the whole of the gluteus medius, the pos- terior two-thirds of which had been covered by the larger muscle; 3d, at the posterior edge of the gluteus medius is thepyriformis muscle part- ly concealed by it, and coming out of the supe- rior sacro-sciatic foramen ; 4th, next below the piriformis lie the two gemelli, with the tendon of the obturator internus between them, and below these is the quadratus femoris, having underneath it the strong tendon of the obturator externus; 5th, the great sciatic nerve is seen emerging from the superior sacro-sciatic fora- men near the sciatic artery. Sometimes it comes out entirely below the piriformis; some- times it descends in two branches, one of which peiforates that muscle, and they then unite. The trunk passes directly downwards, cross- ing the rotator muscles of the hip, and pass- ing between the projecting tuberosity of the ischium and the trochanter major. In this part of its course it is accompanied by the sciatic artery, which is seen about half an inch to the internal or sacral side of the nerve, and sends one considerable branch to supply the nerve, and runs tortuously imbedded in its iieuri'.ema. The course which the nerve and artery here take will be represented by a line drawn from the posterior superior spinous pro- cess of the ilium to a spot midway between the tuber ischii and trochanter major. Lastly, in this view are exposed the bursal sacs, of which there are several between the gluteus maxim us and the subjacent parts. The most considerable is found between it and the external surface of the trochanter major. A consider- able but smaller one is placed between its broad tendinous expansion and the upper part of the vastus externus, and two smaller ones com- monly between the muscle and the os femoris at the upper and back part of the thigh. The ischiatic artery at the commencement of its course is smaller than the gluteal, and comes down over the pyriformis muscle, and makes its exit from the pelvis through the lower part of the sciatic notch, between the pyriform and levator ani muscles, above the lesser sciatic ligament, and in front of the sciatic nerve; it sometimes passes between the roots of this nerve. On the dorsum of the pelvis the sciatic artery is covered by the gluteus maximus muscle, and may be seen by a similar dissec- tion to that which exposes the gluteal artery, excepting that it is found about an inch and a half lower down than the last-named vessel. The gluteal artery comes out of the pelvis at the upper part of the sciatic notch in com- pany with the superior gluteal nerve and vein. It immediately winds upwards upon the dorsum ilii, keeping close to the bone, and shortly after its arrival upon the dorsum it divides into branches principally distributed to the gluteal muscles. To expose this artery and its branches in dissection, it is necessary to proceed as in the dissection of the gluteus maximus muscle. Next divide this muscle in a line from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the tuberosity of the ischium. In making this dis- section several large arteries and veins must be injured. If the edges of the muscle be now- separated and the subjacent cellular membrane removed, the gluteal artery, accompanied by one or two large veins and by the gluteal nerve, may be seen escaping from the sciatic notch above the pyriform muscle, between it and the gluteus medius. This artery, as it escapes from the pelvis, lies three inches and a half from the mesian line, or from the spinous processes of the sacrum. The gluteal and ischiadic arteries, as we have seen, are covered by the gluteus maximus mus- cle, and lie at such a depth from the surface that they are not very liable to injury. Wounds, however, of this part do occasionally implicate these vessels, either in their large branches or even the trunks themselves, and they have been affected with aneurism, an instance of which is mentioned by Mr. J. Bell,* and which attained a considerable size. In the case of a wound, its direction will lead us to the situation of the artery; and in the instance of aneurism just mentioned, Mr. Bell ventured to lay open the sac and thus reach the mouth of the gluteal artery, which he secured by liga- ture, and this perhaps might be accomplished in a very emaciated person; but generally speaking the artery lies so deep, and the vessels which must be wounded in rhak ing the neces- sary incisions would by their bleeding so ob- scure the operation, that the most experienced surgeons do not recommend the attempt under ordinary circumstances, but prefer the operation of tying the internal iliac.f As a guide, how- ever, to the situation of the gluteal artery, whether in the examination of a wound or in operating upon it, its position on the dorsum of the pelvis may be ascertained by drawing a line from the posterior spinous process of the ilium to the middle of the space between the tuberosity of the ischium and trochanter major. If this line is divided into three, the gluteal artery will be found emerging from the pelvis at the juncture of its upper and middle thirds.! To return to the consideration of the anato- mical structures which we expose in succession. We are struck with the difference in texture of the three glutei muscles. The fibres of the two smaller glutei are of moderate size and strength, while those of the larger gluteus are remarkable for their coarseness and large dimen- sions. The relative situation of the three muscles is also important. The position and direction of the gluteus maximus is just in that line in which the greatest vigour of action is required to erect the body by drawing the back part of the pelvis towards the trochanter major. In this operation it is assisted by the position of the gluteus medius and minimus, * Principles of Surgery, vol. i. p. 421. f See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. v. Also Guthrie on Diseases of Arteries, p. 364. } See Harrison's Surgical Anatomy of the Arte- ries, vol. ii. p. 1U0.