HEART. 598 bag surrounding the heart and origin of the large bloodvessels, but without any direct attachment to the heart itself, having its inner surface lined by a serous membrane. It is from this latter circumstance that it is generally termed a fibro-serous membrane. It is placed behind the cartilages of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs of the left side and middle part of the sternum. Posteriorly it rests upon the parts contained in the posterior mediastinum ; anteriorly it corresponds to the anterior medias- tinum, and may be reached by perforating the left side of the sternum, as has been proposed in some cases of hydrops pericardii. The pleurae adhere to its lateral and part of its anterior surface by pretty close cellular tissue, when the interposed tat is small in quantity. The phrenic nerves with their small accom- panying arteries pass down the thorax between the pleurae and lateral surfaces of the pericar- dium. Below, the fibrous part of the pericar- dium adheres intimately to the upper surface of the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm, and is also connected by pretty dense cellular tissue to the upper surface of the muscular fibres running into the anterior part of the left lobe of the tendon. It adheres more firmly to the cordiform tendon at the edges, particularly anteriorly, than at the centre. It is broader below where it adheres to the upper surface of the diaphragm, narrower above where it is attached to the large vessels that pass in and out from the heart. Upon these large vessels the fibrous part of the pericardium is prolonged, forming a kind of sheath, which gradually be- comes thinner until it is confounded with the cellular coat of the vessels. From the manner, however, in which the vena cava inferior enters the heart, it can have no fibrous sheath of this kind. At the different points where the fibrous coat becomes applied upon these vessels, and where the cava inferior passes through the cordiform tendon, the serous coat is reflected upon the outer surface of the vessels, and accompanies them back to the heart to cover the outer surface of that organ. In this man- ner the serous part of the pericardium is a shut sac, the outer surface of which adheres to the inner surface of the fibrous portion, and to the outer surface of the heart. The inner surface, like that of all the other serous membranes, is unadherent, smooth, and shining, and is every- where in contact with itself, and only contains the small quantity of fluid which serves to lubricate its interior. The serous portion of the pericardium adheres intimately to the inner surface of the fibrous. At that part, however, where the serous leaves the fibrous to pass back upon the surface of the large vessels, there is a small triangular space left between them. The serous membrane is reflected upon and covers the outer surface of the aorta rather more than two inches above its origin; upon the pulmonary artery about the same distance and immediately before its bifurcation ; upon the cava superior about an inch above its entrance into the right auricle; upon the cava inferior shortly before it reaches the heart; upon the two right pulmonary veins soon after they have emerged from the right lung; and upon the left pulmonary veins shortly before they enter the auricle. This serous membrane, in passing upon the aorta and pulmonary arteries, covers the anterior surfaces of both before it passes round upon their posterior; it then en- velopes both arteries in the same sheath, so that their opposed surfaces are only separated from each other by a little cellular tissue. It leaves part of the posterior surface of the cavae and pulmonary veins uncovered, occasionally, however, enveloping the whole or nearly the whole, of the left pulmonary veins. It adheres but loosely to the large bloodvessels, and firmly to the outer surface of the auricles and ven- tricles. The attachment of the fibrous part to the cordiform tendon is very firm at the edges and blended with the tendon, but becomes looser towards the centre. Cloquet* describes the serous membrane as lying in contact with the upper surface of the cordiform tendon; or, in other words, he appears to consider the fibrous part not to be prolonged over the upper surface of the tendon, but to stop at its attached margin. In most cases I have been able to trace the fibrous part of the pericardium over the upper surface of the cordiform tendon, but almost always more or less diminished in thick- ness. In some cases I was unable to detect anything like a fibrous layer at this part. The fibrous part of the pericardium is comparatively thin, and is composed of tendinous fibres interwoven together. It is not much larger than sufficient to contain the heart when its cavities are distended. This fact taken along with the physical properties of the membrane, not admitting of sudden dilatation, explains how the sudden escape of a small quantity of blood (8 oz. or sometimes less) into the interior of the pericardium is sufficient to arrest the heart's action. The arteries of the pericardium are small and come from various sources, from the bronchial, oesophageal, phrenic, from the arteries of the thymus gland, internal mammary, coronary arteries, and the aorta itself. Its veins partly terminate in the azygos, and partly accompany the corresponding arteries to terminate in the veins of the same name. Its lymphatics pass to the glands placed around the cava superior. The nerves can be traced into its texture. Uses of the pericardium.—The pericardium restrains within certain limits the irregular movements of the heart. The inner serous surface of the pericardium must also facilitate its ordinary and healthy movements. Relative position of the vessels within the pericardium.—The pulmonary artery at its origin overlaps the anterior surface of the aorta as it springs from the left ventricle. (See fig. 276, s, for the lelative position of these vessels at their * Traite d'Anatomie Descriptive, p. 633, trans- lated by Knox. Cloquet does not state distinctly that the fibrous part of the pericardium is not con- tinued over the cordiform tendon, but this may be inferred from the statement that the serous mem- brane " is applied below, directly and in a very close manner upon the aponeuroses of the dia- phragm."