503 HiEMATOSINE. muscle, as we have seen it occur in a marked degree in a rather severe attack of inflammation of the joint, which readily yielded to treat- ment.* Then in the more advanced stages of disease of the joint, the depressions above mentioned are not only lost, but from morbid depositions in the neighbourhood of the hip they become elevated and swollen, and the sharp prominences of the trochanter lost in the general fulness of the part. (A. T. S. Dodd.) GROIN, REGION OF THE, (Surgical Anatomy.) (Fr. Vaine, region inguinale.) The limits of this region, as understood by most surgical writers, seem to be wholly artificial. The groin constitutes the confines of the ab- domen and the thigh; and Poupart's ligament forms a natural line of division between its femoral and its abdominal portions. A line drawn horizontally, the subject being erect, from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the linea alba, forms the superior limit of this region, while below it may be defined by a line parallel to the former one, and extending from the pubis to the outer part of the thigh. For the particulars of this region, see Hernia, Femoral Artery, Abdomen, and Thigh, regions of the. (R. B. Todd.) H^MATOSINE, (ai^a, blood, and tt.ttto, to fall.) The colouring matter of the biood.f This principle separates with the fibrine of the blood when that fluid coagulates, and may be obtained free from adherent albuminous matter by the process recommended by Berzelius, which is as follows. The coagulum is first to be sliced in thin pieces with a sharp knife, and then carefully washed in separate portions of distilled water; by these means we separate the adherent serum, and if the washing is gently performed, but little haematosine be- comes washed away with it. The slices thus prepared are placed on a filter and allowed to drain : when the draining is complete, the slices are to be thrown into a glass vessel and broken up in distilled water; we thus procure a solution of the colouring matter while any fibrine pre- sent gradually subsides. The liquor when poured off is a tolerably pure solution of haematosine. If it is wished to procure the principle in the solid form, the solution may be evaporated at a temperature not exceeding 100° Fahrenheit. Engelhart prefers heating the solution after filtration to about 150° Fahrenheit, which deter- mines the precipitation of the haematosine, while any albumen which may possibly exist * There seems to be a law of the animal economy that when a joint is diseased the muscles moving it immediately lose tone and bulk, and there is no more marked symptom of disease of an articulation than this wasting of the muscles which belong to it. t Lecanu considers that haematosine is a com- pound of albumen with a substance which lie be- lieves to be the true colouring matter of the blood, and which he calls Olobuline. in solution with it, remains dissolved at that temperature. Engelhart's process yields us haematosine in its purest form, but when thus obtained it is no longer soluble in water, whereas, if procured by evaporation at 100° Fahrenheit, it is still soluble, and what is very extraordinary, dry haematosine procured at that temperature, though it be afterwards subjected to a heat of 212" Fahrenheit, does not lose its property of dissolving in water. Haematosine may be described under two forms, viz. in solution and in the dry state. The aqueous solution of hamatosine is pre- cipitated by alcohol and the acids. The alkaline hydro-sulphurets and sulphuretted hy- drogen change the colour of the solution to green ; nearly all the metallic and earthy salts precipitate it. Infusion of galls produces a pale red precipitate; gallic acid, however, does not show this effect. Chlorine passed through a solution of haematosine decolorizes it. Bromine produces a similar result, but it is some time before the effect is observed. Iodine will also decolorize the solution after some hours, and produces a brown precipitate, which is found to contain iodine. Haematosine when dry is of a dark red co- lour and exceedingly hard, having a vitreous fracture. Its chemical properties in many re- spects resemble those of fibrine, and albumen in the coagulated state. Berzelius remarks that, like fibrine, it contains a fatty matter pe- culiar to itself which can be separated by ether; this is one point of resemblance in the opinion of that chemist. The action of acetic acid on haematosine is a very striking point of resem- blance between that body and fibrine; for when the acid in the concentrated state is al- lowed to remain in contact with haematosine for a few hours, we observe that it is converted into a tremulous brown mass which is more or less soluble in water, and which during solu- tion evolves nitrogen gas. The nitric, hydro- chloric, and sulphuric acids, if diluted with an equal bulk of water, and digested on haema- tosine, become coloured yellow and disengage nitrogen; but they do not dissolve the prin- ciple even at a boiling heat. The results of such digestions, however, in the hydrochloric and sulphuric acids, are soluble in water; but that which has been digested in nitric acid remains insoluble. Potash, soda, and ammonia dissolve haema- tosine with facility, and it is precipitated from such solution by the addition of an acid. The acetic acid acts thus, but re-dissolves the pre- cipitate if added in excess, as it would albu- men or fibrine. Tannin precipitates haematosine from solu- tion in alkalies. Tiedemann and Gmelin have observed that boiling alcohol will dissolve haematosine ; this is also the case to a considerable extent with its combinations with several of the acids which precipitate it. When haematosine is incinerated and decarbonized, it yields an ash amounting to 1.3 per cent, of its weight: this, according to Berzelius, is composed of the following sub- stances :—