ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 784 and would of course consider all the pheno- mena of the malformation we have dwelt on, as the mere consequences of the paralytic con- dition of the muscles. With such a doctrine we are not at all disposed to agree; in no other instances do we find paralysis produce similar results; besides, the muscles of the hip-joints in many of these cases seem in the exercise of running and leaping endowed with very ener- getic powers of action. It is perfectly clear that to refer all in these cases to a paralysis of the muscles is quite unsatisfactory, because the abnormal conditions of the several structures around the affected joints are in these cases so varied and numerous that we feel that they never can be rationally referred to this single source. In some instances we find a very well marked oval eminence on the side of the pelvis for articulation with the malformed head of the femur, while no trace of cotyloid cavity exists; in some the defect is slight, in others the de- formity is great; thus the ligamentum teres may be a long and slender thread without vas- cularity or strength in some cases, in others we have seen it four inches long, and at the same time of considerable breadth; while in others again no trace of ligamentum teres or head of the femur existed, the imperfect representation of a head being retained by a lengthened cap- sular ligament, supported by the smaller mus- cles around the malformed articulation. These observations satisfy us that we cannot refer to " paralysis of the muscles of the lower extremity as a consequence of irritation from teething arising during infancy," the pheno- mena that this affection termed congenital mal- formation of the hip-joint presents. We have no doubt seen some instances in which a certain paralytic tendency and other congenital defects seemed combined with the malformation of the hip-joint; but again we have seen many others in which there was no paralytic tendency, and in which no other de- fect than a double congenital luxation of the hip-joint existed; and in Dupuytren's twenty- six cases no mention is made of paralysis, nor of atrophy of the cerebral convolutions. We confess we are glad to feel ourselves able successfully to oppose the hopeless idea of pa- ralysis of the muscles being in fault, because we have reason to believe that mechanical treat- ment of the malformed hip-joint has succeeded, when early applied, in lessening the infirmity. The idea of paralysis of the muscles being the root of the evil, precludes all hope of mecha- nical treatment being at all serviceable to these unfortunate individuals. History of a case of congenital malformation of the lef t hip-joint, with the anatomical exa- mination of the articulation.—A man named John North, aet. 31, of weak intellect, was admitted under the care of Dr. Hutton, July 1835, into the Richmond Hospital; he was afflicted with a most severe form of inflamma- tion of the larynx, trachea, and lungs. I was asked to visit him, and report my opinion as to whether the operation of tracheotomy should be performed, or whether such a measure would be calculated to relieve the urgent symptoms of dyspnoea which seemed in this case to threaten suffocation. While I was examining the pa- tient he wished to get out of his bed, and then I noticed that besides having an atrophied and contracted state of the left forearm and wrist, his left lower extremity was deformed, and seemed much shorter than the opposite limb. Upon even a very superficial view of this left hip-joint and the position of the limb, all the more obvious features of a dislocation up- wards and backwards on the dorsum ilii, were recognized. Upon inquiry it was ascertained, as far as could be from such a patient and from his ordinary attendants, that the hip-joint had never suffered any accident, and that, although he had issues inserted, he never had had any acute disease or suffering in the deformed hip, which deformity, with the contraction of the upper extremity, was coeval with their earliest recollections of him. I agreed with those in consultation on the case that the state of the lungs would speedily bring about the death of the patient, and that no operation, such as tracheotomy or laryngo- tomy, should be resorted to. I also expressed my conviction that the left hip-joint presented a very fine illustration of the abnormal state of this articulation, which Dupuytren and others had described as a congenital or original luxa- tion of the hip. The next day the patient died of the inflammatory affection of the chest, and a post-mortem examination was made by Dr. Hutton, at which Mr. Smith and the writer were present. There were observed the same appearances of luxation on the dorsum ilii as before noticed; the body being held up and maintained in the erect posture, the pelvis was seen to be very oblique and elevated towards the malformed side, the left lower extremity seemed three inches shorter than the right or perfectly formed limb, but on measurement it was plain that the deformed limb was not really shortened, but had merely ascended on the dorsum ilii. The trochanter major (natu- rally on a level with the horizontal ramus of the pubis) was elevated two inches above this bone. In the prominence and elevation of the great trochanter, in the semiflexion and adduc- tion of the limb, in the circumstance of the motions of rotation and abduction being li- mited,—in all these the case nearly resembled the ordinary luxation on the dorsum ilii, whe- ther produced by accident or the result of an old caries; but the history of the case was op- posed to either of these conjectures, and the marks of issues placed there through ignorance were not to mislead us, or induce us to alter our opinion already expressed, as we were well aware that in almost all the cases seen by Du- puytren similar evidences of surgical ignorance of the true nature of the affection had existed. Besides the unusual prominence and elevation of the trochanter major already mentioned, the head of the femur could itself be plainly enough felt, when a movement of rotation outwards was given to the shaft of the bone; but when the limb was forcibly elevated or extended, even now in the dead subject, its range of move- ment of ascent and descent was not more than