163 EXTREMITY. sigmoid cavity; like the similar surface on the olecranon, it is divided by an obtuse ridge directed from before backwards, into two une- qual portions; these portions correspond in shape and size with those already noticed on the olecranon. The shaft of the ulna gradually tapers from above downwards; it is triangular in its entire extent, excepting for about an inch above the inferior extremity, where the bone is distinctly cylindrical. On the shaft anatomists commonly describe three surfaces. The anterior surface is broader in the middle than at its extremities; it is slightly concave in the transverse direction in its middle third ; on this surface, at its upper part, we notice the orifice of the nutritious canal, which is directed upwards towards the coro- noid and olecranon. By its three superior fourths this surface affords attachments to the flexor digitorum profundus, and by its inferior fourth to the pronator quadratus; the place of attachment of this latter muscle is limited above by an oblique line which passes from without inwards and from above downwards. The in- ternal surface is smooth, and convex in its en- tire extent; widest above, it gradually tapers to the inferior extremity. In its inferior fourth it is subcutaneous, and to its three superior fourths is attached the deep flexor muscle of the fingers ; the aspect of this surface is back- wards as well as inwards. The third surface is posterior. The two in- ferior thirds of this surface are smooth, the mid- dle being flat and the lowest rounded; here are attached the extensor muscles of the thumb and that of the index finger. In the superior third we distinctly notice two surfaces, easily distinguishable by the difference of aspect; the internal one, which is continued up on the olecranon process, looks backwards and slightly outwards; to it the anconaeus muscle is attached superiorly, and inferiorly the extensor carpi ulnaris. The external of these two surfaces looks directly outwards, and is separated from that last described by a line which passes ob- liquely downwards and inwards; to this sur- face, which commences just below the lesser sigmoid cavity, the supinator brevis is attached, and below it, commences the line of attachment of the extensor muscles already alluded to. Three edges separate the surfaces above de- scribed ; of these the external is at once distin- guished by its greater prominence; it is sharp in nearly its two inferior thirds, and superiorly is lost on the surface to which the supinator brevis is attached; all that part of this edge which is prominent and sharp gives insertion to the interosseous ligament. The anterior edge commences just below the coronoid pro- cess, and terminates, inclining a little back- wards, in front of the styloid process of the ulna: it is rounded and smooth in its entire extent, and has the deep flexor of the fingers and the pronator quadratus inserted into it. The posterior edge commences at the apex of the posterior surface of the olecranon, and ter- minates insensibly towards the inferior fourth of the bone. The inferior or carpal extremity of the ulna is very small; it forms a slightly rounded head; on its posterior and internal part is a small process, projecting vertically downwards and ending in a point, to which the internal lateral ligament of' the wrist-joint is attached : this process is the styloid process; external to this is a depression or pit, into which is inserted the triangular cartilage of the wrist-joint, and external to this depression is the rounded head, which is smooth on its inferior surface, covered with cartilage in the recent state ; the triangular cartilage glides upon this surface. On the outer side of the head is an articular convexity which articulates with a concave surface on the inner side of the carpal extremity of the radius. On the posterior surface of the head, imme- diately external to the styloid process, there is a slight channel, in which is lodged the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. Structure. — The olecranon and coronoid processes are completely cellular in structure, excepting the external cortex of compact tissue. The inferior extremity of the ulna is likewise cellular, but the shaft is mainly composed of compact tissue, hollowed by a medullary canal, which commences a little below the coronoid process, and terminates just above the inferior extremity. liadius, (Germ, die Speiche,) so called from its being compared to the spoke of a wheel; it is the shorter of the two bones of the forearm ; its proportion to the ulna being as 11 to 12. The superior extremity or head of the radius is a cylindrical head excavated on its superior surface so as to form a superficial cavity, cuvitas glenoidea, which is articulated with the external condyle of the humerus. The circumference of this head consists of a deep lip of bone present- ing a smooth surface covered by cartilage in the recent state, the depth of which, measured verti- cally, is greatest on the inner side, so as there to form an oval convex articular facet which is adapted to the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna; the remainder of the circumference is embraced by the annular ligament of the radius. The head of the radius is connected to the shaft by a short and cylindrical neck, which passes obliquely downwards and inwards; the neck of the radius is limited inferiorly and on the ulnar side by a rounded tubercular process, into the internal posterior and roughpartof which the biceps mus- cle is inserted, the bicipital tuberosity or tubercle of the radius; the anterior part of this tubercle, over which the tendon of the biceps glides, is smooth. For about an inch below this process the bone retains the cylindrical form, being here embraced by the inferior fibres of the su- pinator brevis muscle; but below this the bone becomes distinctly prismatic in its form, and begins to expand to its inferior or carpal extre- mity. We here describe three surfaces as in the ulna: the anterior is inclined inwards, its aspect is forwards and inwards; about its middle this surface is slightly hollowed from above downwards; at the junction of its middle and inferior third it is convex, and in its inferior third, where it attains its greatest lateral expan- sion, it is concave again. At the superior third of the bone we notice on this surface the nutri-