665 ANIMAL HEAT. liarly interesting manner. The young Mam- malia which are born with the eyes closed, at first present the phenomena of refrigeration nearly in the same degree during the two or three first days of their life ; though they after- wards exhibit differences of great extent in this respect. Thus a young rabbit two days old had cooled down to 14° from 23° c. (to 58° from 74° F.) in the course of three hours fifty minutes, theair being at the time temperate; another three days old took seven hours twenty-five minutes to cool through a range of 18° c, when the process of refrigeration ceased. A third, of the age of five days only, lost 5° c. in temperature in the course of one hour fifty-five minutes, and maintained itself afterwards at this tem- perature. During the following days, smaller and smaller depressions of temperature were observed, till the eleventh day after birth, when the power of sustaining the temperature a little below that of the adult female parent seemed to be acquired permanently. When the modifi- cations of internal structure are examined during this interval of time, we find that the ductus arteriosus has been contracting in the same proportion as the faculty of maintaining the temperature has been increasing, and that it is entirely closed at the epoch when the tem- perature becomes stationary, the external tem- perature being understood all the while as mild or pleasant. At the same period pre- cisely too, the eyes are unsealed, a circum- stance which confirms the exactness of the character derived from the state of this latter organ, as distinctive of the young of those Mammalia which are born as it were cold- blooded animals, from those that come into the world with the distinguishing attribute of warm- blooded animals. Among the young of Birds we observe as marked differences in the calorific function as we have just acknowledged among Mammalia. Some lose heat rapidly when separated from the mother; others maintain their temperature to within a little of that of their species. Spar- rows, for instance, which have been hatched but a short while, present a temperature from 4° to 5° c. lower than that of their parents when still contained in the nest, where they contribute to each other's warmth. But taken out of the nest and isolated, although the temperature be that of summer they begin to cool with extreme rapidity. A young sparrow a few days old lost as many as 12° c. in the short space of one hour seven minutes, the air at the time marking 22° c. (72° F.). The same thing happens with swallows, sparrow-hawks, &c. But the law is not universal; it does not hold in re- ference to all the genera. There are several that have the power of sustaining their tempera- ture in spring and summer at a degree but little below that of their parents. Birds, there- fore, form two groups as regards the production of temperature, just as the Mammalia do. The first cool down to the standard of cold-blooded animals; the second preserve their warmth, when the air is mild or agreeable as it is in the spring and summer. But the zoological characters that distinguish them are not the same as among mammiferous animals. All birds are hatched or born with their eyes open. But there are other characters which coincide with the difference of temperature; and this consists in the absence or presence of feathers. The covering of those that are hatched so pro- vided, consists in a kind of down, very close and very warm, so that we might imagine the differences observed in the liability to lose heat or in the capacity to engender it, belonged to the coat. This has undoubtedly some influence, but analogy even will not suffer us to ascribe the chief effect to this cause. In the Mammalia which are born with their eyes closed, the refrigeration takes place to the same extent whether they are born with a fur-coat, as the kitten, the puppy, &c, or come into the world naked like the rabbit; the cooling is only more rapid in the latter than in the former. What further proves, and directly proves, that the refrigeration is not entirely due to the dif- ference in the external condition as regards covering, although this of course must go for something, is that when the want of natural covering is artificially supplied, the cooling does not go on the less certainly on this account, and to the same ultimate extent; it only takes place somewhat more slowly. The counter- proof is attended with the same result. An adult sparrow which has had all its feathers clipped off does not at first suffer loss of tem- perature to the extent of more than a degree, and by-and-by recovers even this; whilst a young bird of the same species, though fur- nished with some feathers, cools rapidly and to a great extent, as we have already seen. Birds are therefore divided into two groups as regards the production of heat. The one comprises those that are hatched with the skin naked, and which cool in a temperate air in the same manner as cold-blooded animals; the other embraces those that are produced with a downy covering, and maintain their temperature at a considerable elevation in the ordinary heat of spring and sumtner. There is not a less remarkable contrast between these two groups of birds in point of calorific power, than between the two groups of Mammalia already mentioned ; but the zoological or external characters which dis- tinguish them in the present instance are not of the same kind. The state of the eyes does not apply here, for all Birds are disclosed with their eyes unsealed. They also all come into the world with the ductus arteriosus closed or nearly so,—a circumstance which might have been predicated, or inferred from analogy. Yet the young of Birds in the power of producing heat present diversities no less remarkable than are observed among the young of the Mammalia. The separation of the two kinds of blood con- sequently is not the only condition which influences the production of heat; but all that modifies the blood on the one hand, and the nervous system on the other, as we have had occasion to observe in a previous part of this paper. Now it happens that we have an op- portunity of applying this principle in a very particular manner in the instance of the two