INSECTA. 950 ' Lamcllicornes, as shown in Swammerdam's drawing of Oryctes,* and Burmeister has delineated a like condition in the larva of Calandra Sommeri.f We have before seen (fig- 405) that such is also the case in the brain of Timarcha. From this it would appear that the cerebral ganglia are the parts of the nervous system last perfected in the larva, while it is interesting to observe that the reverse is the case as respects the terminal ganglion; that part, as correctly remarked by Professor Grant,J being the first to advance forwards and become united to the penultimate ganglion, to form the great caudal mass, at an early period of the larva. This is evident in the Timarcha, in which the eleventh and twelfth ganglia have coalesced into a single mass, while the cerebral ganglia only just meet above the oesophagus. But this is not the case in the perfect insect, (fig. 408,) in which the cerebral ganglia (A) Fig. 408. Nervous system of perfect state of Timarcha tene- bricosa. A, cerebral mass or brain; B, optic nerves; G, origin of sympathetic. have become greatly enlarged, united together, and represent a distinct brain, from which pro- ceed the uerves of sense, and united by long crura to the medulla oblongata (1), from which, are given off as before the nerves of the organs * Biblia Nat. tab. xviii. fig. 1. + Zur Naturgeschichte dor Gattung Calandra, fig. 13, Berlin, 1837. t Phil. Trans. 1832, part ii. p. 384. Outlines of Comparative Anatomy, p. 193. of manducation. The cords are enlarged, as also are the three ganglia of the thorax and their nerves, and a coalescence has taken place between the fourth, fifth, and sixth ganglia, their intervening cords being entirely obliterated, and the nerves aggregated together are now derived from one mass, the great meta-thoracic ganglion, the last part of the nervous system in the thorax. A similar change has also taken place in the remaining part of the cord and ganglia, which now forms the abdominal por- tion. The cord between each of the ganglia has been shortened, and the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth are united and form the caudal mass, which is situated about half way across the abdomen. Such are the changes that take place in the nervous system of an inferior type of Coleoptera; in the higher forms, as in the Melolonthida, the series of approximated ganglia does not extend beyond the middle of the meta-thorax, the cords being terminated by a kind of cauda equina, all the nerves that go to the abdomen are aggregated together and' extended into that region over the post-furca. A similar structure, but in a less complete form, exists in the JJi/tiscida, in which, as in the Hi/daticus cinercus, a short cord is found with seven constrictions upon it, corresponding to that number of ganglia which probably existed in the larva state, but have nearly dis- appeared during the metamorphoses. But that this concentrated form of the nervous system is not necessarily connected with high develop- ment of other parts of the body is further shown in the common Earwig, Furficula auri- cularia, in which there are ten distinct sub- Fig. 409. Nervous system of the Earwig (Forficula auricularia). oesophageal ganglia. The first, or medulla, is large and closely connected by very short crura with the brain, there being only a narrow