ELASTICITY. S7 tory these two properties were looked upon as identical; that even the illustrious Cullen has scarcely distinguished them, and that some of our most eminent living physiologists have fallen into manifest errors upon the same sub- ject, it becomes plain that we cannot be too particular in familiarizing ourselves with the distinctions between these totally independent forces. It is not enough to say that contractility is a vital and elasticity a physical property; for as we are ignorant alike of the nature of life and of elasticity, a distinction founded upon any such assumption must necessarily be futile. It is only by a diligent comparison of then- respective laws that we can assign to each its proper limits. Let us then observe in con- trasting them, first, that elasticity can never act as a prime mover; it is never a source of power, but merely the reaction of a force pre- viously applied: thus, the elasticity of the spring will never of itself set the watch in motion unless some external force shall, in the first instance, have acted upon or bent it. But contractility can of itself originate motion, at least it is not essential that any mechanical force with which we are acquainted should precede its action. Again, the force of elas- ticity can never exceed that other power which has called it into existence; if, for instance, a weight of one pound be required to depress an elastic spring, the force of reaction upon the removal of that weight can never exceed the measure of a pound. But, in the case of muscular contraction, there is no such limit; there is no fixed ratio between the cause and the effect; the slightest touch of a sharp in- strument will, in an irritable muscle, such as the heart, excite the most violent contractions. Elasticity cannot manifest itself except by the removal or suspension of the cause which has called it into action : muscularity requires no such suspension of its exciting cause. The exciting cause of elasticity is always of a phy- sical nature; but many other causes no ways allied to physical ones may excite the muscular power. Lastly, elasticity is not destroyed by death nor affected by opium or other narcotics, while contractility presents a very striking con- trast in both these respects. These facts are quite conclusive in proving that muscular and elastic contraction are go- verned by distinct laws, and cannot conse- quently be referred to the same source. But if some physiologists have erred in overlooking the distinctions between these two properties, if they have not analysed with sufficient care, others have unquestionably erred in an oppo- site direction, and by pushing analysis too far, have attributed to imaginary forces effects which are the result of elasticity alone. We feel much diffidence in controverting any doc- trine supported by the genius and authority of Bichat, but we confess that the distinction which that celebrated anatomist is so anxious throughout his various works to establish be- tween what he terms " contractility of tissue" and elasticity, appears to us unfounded. Elas- ticity according to him is a purely physical property. Contractility of tissue, though not actually a vital one, is however found only in the animal tissues; it does not depend directly upon life, but results merely from the texture and organization of those particles which con- stitute the vital organs. The following passage from his work upon " Life and Death" may, perhaps, assist us in understanding his views upon this subject. " Most organs of our bodies are held in a state of tension by various causes; the voluntary muscles by their anta- gonists ; the hollow muscles by the substances contained within them; the vessels by means of their circulating fluids; the skin of one portion of the body by that which covers the neighbouring part; the alveolar walls by the teeth contained within them. Now, upon the suspension of the distending causes, contrac- tion takes place: divide a long muscle,—its antagonist becomes shortened; empty a hol- low muscle, it shrinks upon itself: prevent the blood from entering an artery, the vessel be- comes a ligament: cut through the integu- ments, the divided edges are separated from each other by the contraction of the adjoining skin : extract a tooth from its alveolus, that channel becomes obliterated. * * * In all these cases it is the removal of a tension naturally inherent in the tissue which determines its contraction:—in other instances it is the re- moval of a tension which does not naturally reside in the part. Thus we see the abdomen contract after parturition; the maxillary sinus after the extirpation of a fungous growth; the cellular tissue after the removal of an abscess; the tunica vaginalis after the operation for hydrocele; the integument of the scrotum after the removal of an enlarged testicle; the aneurismal sac upon the emptying of its fluid." He remarks in another place that motion when the result of elasticity is quick and sud- den, and ceases as abruptly as it has been pro- duced; but the motions which result from contractility of tissue are slow and impercep- tible, lasting frequently for hours and even days, as are seen in the retraction of muscles after amputation. The distinction laid down in these passages appears to us totally un- supported : to say, for example, that even in a dead artery there are two principles of con- traction which, though their mode of action is literally the same, should nevertheless be con- sidered distinct and referred to different sources appears contrary to every rule of philosophic reasoning. As to the distinction drawn from the comparative quickness of these motions, it is only necessary to say that upon this view of the subject even the movement of the watch-spring itself cannot be attributed to elas- ticity. We must then conclude that there are two and only two forces to which all the various movements of living bodies can be referred ; the one a vital force regulated by its own proper laws, the other a general physical property, whose mode of action is essentially the same in organized and unorganized bodies : the phenomena above enumerated by Bichat