275 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. viz . the attachment of the two packets to the same point, the existence of the eminence at the inser- tion, and that of a cord of communication with the anterior column of the spinal marrow. The encephalic connections of the nerve, as detailed, are corroborated by those to be observed in inferior animals. In those Mam- malia in which the pons is but little deve- loped, the nerve is attached between that part and the trapezium; in those instances in which the pons is more so, the nerve is attached, superficially, not actually behind that part, but near to its posterior margin; with little trouble it can be followed to the back of the pons, where it is attached, as in Man, to the medulla oblongata, the point of attachment presenting here also, after the separation of the adjoining matter, the appearance of an emi- nence or tubercle, from whence a cord de- scends beneath the trapezium into the lateral column of the spinal bulb. This cord is of great size in many animals; and in some can be seen distinctly, without dissection, upon the surface of the spinal bulb, in consequence of the degree to which it projects: it is well expressed in the delineation of the brain of the calf in the third plate of Gall and Spurzheim, and in that of the brain of the horse in fig. 275 of M. Serres' Illustrations of the Comparative Anatomy of the Brain. In Birds, Reptiles, and Fish, neither pons, trapezium, nor olivary bodies exist, and the nerve is attached to the lateral part of the spinal bulb at its superior or anterior extremity, and to its lateral column—the prolongation of the superior column of the spinal cord. In all three the point of attachment is situate a little way from the back of the bulb and be- neath the floor of the ventricle, the cineritioua stratum, of which the latter consists, being directly connected to the back of the nerve. In Birds (fig. 142) the continuation of the nerve Fig. 142. Brain and Fifth Nerves of the Goose. 1 Inferior surface of cerebrum. 2 Spinal bulb. 3 Ganglia of fifth nerves. 4 Root of nerve from lateral column of the bulb exposed by turning aside the superficial stratum of that part. 5 First division of the fifth. 6 Second do. 7 Third do. 8 Auditory nerve. On one side (the reader's right) the non-gan- glionic fasciculus has been traced beneath the gan- glion into the third division of the nerve. can be traced downward along the side of the bulb toward the spinal cord, and without diffi- culty, inasmuch as it is superficial and is not crossed by a trapezium, as in the Mammalia. In the Turtle the nerve can be traced in like manner from the point of attachment down- ward into the lateral column; and in Fish the Fig. 143. Origin of nerve in Turtle. 1 Spinal bulb. 2 Fifth nerves. The pin is passed between the ganglionic and non-ganglionic fasciculi, the latter being continued into the third division. 3 Ganglion. 4 First division of the nerve. 5 Second do. 6 Third do. attachment is in all essentials similar: the com- parative smallness of the bulb and the direc- tion which the nerve takes in its course out- ward, make it resemble the spinal nerves more than in the other classes; but its encephalic connection is strictly the same, namely, to the lateral column of the bulb beneath the floor of the ventricle. In the Cod, after the removal of the floor of the ventricle from the back of the nerve, the latter may be followed for some way into the column, though neither to the same extent nor so satisfactorily as in the bird or the Turtle; and in the Ray, while the two inferior fasciculi of the nerve—for in this fish it consists originally of three—are connected in the usual mode to the lateral column, the superior is attached to a convolution formed by the floor, in consequence of a greater developement of its margin. In the Cod the convolution adverted to does not exist, but the floor of the ventricle cannot be raised from the nerve without destroy- ing a connection of some kind between them. In the latter fish the fifth nerve is attached before and rather superior to the auditory nerve, and the two nerves are quite distinct as far as the point of attachment, but there they are in t 2