463 GENERATION. gested to Spallanzani* the ingenious expe- riment of artificial fecundation, which he first performed, and which furnished the most con- vincing proof that could be obtained, that, in such animals as the frog, sexual union is not essential to fecundation, and that, when the ova are ripe and the seminal fluid of the suit- able quality, the mere contact of the male and female products is sufficient to confer fertility upon the ova. Spallanzani opened very many female frogs at the time of propagation, but before they had laid any spawn, and consequently before im- pregnation could have occurred, and he satis- fied himself that the ripest ova extracted from the oviduct, and placed in water, gradually passed into putrefaction without undergoing any of the changes of development; while some of the same ova, upon which he had sprinkled some of the seminal fluid taken from the body of the male, and placed in similar vessels of water, had tadpoles formed from them in the same manner exactly as those which were fe- cundated by the male frog itself, f The same experiments were performed by Spallanzani on toads and newts with exactly the same result. . Spallanzani, in order to avoid every fallacy, allowed the female to remain in union with the male, and to lay her spawn in the natural way, preventing only the access of any of the seminal fluid of the male to the ova, by tying up the hinder part of the male's body in oiled silk, and these ova were alike barren, unless he added to them some of the seminal fluid in the artificial mode. TreviranusJ mentions the performance of the experiment of artificial fecundation in Fishes, viz. on the spawn of the Salmon, Trout, and Carp, by Duhamel and by Jacobi. Jacobi's experiments were repeated by Dr. Walker of Edinburgh ; and very recently it has again been performed on the spawn of the Tench and Bleak by Itusconi of Pavia. (Cyprinus Tine a and Alburnus.) The very complete series of experiments of Messrs. Prevost and Dumas§ on the frog- afford the most satisfactory confirmation of those of the Abbe Spallanzani. The following appear to be the more im- portant results deducible from these two sets of experiments. 1st. That a very small quantity indeed of the seminal matter is requisite for the fecundation of the ovum. 2d. That dilution of the seminal fluid with water within certain limits does not impede, but rather is favourable to its operation. 3d. That the absorbent power of the albumi- nous or gelatinous matter which surrounds the black yolk is highly useful in bringing the seminal substance in contact with the yolk, where it is obvious its effect must be produced. * Dissertazioni di fisica animale, &c. t This experiment the author has more than once performed with a similar result. t Erscheinungen und Gesezte des Organischen Ijebens. § Annul, des Sciences Nat. torn. i. This albuminous covering, corresponding to the white of the bird's egg, possesses the remark- able property of absorbing water, somewhat like gum tragacanth, in a determinate quantity, and thus increases greatly in bulk after being laid in water. In the experiments referred to, the absorption of the water by the jelly was fully demonstrated by the immersion of the ova in coloured water, and it was found also that the experiment of artificial fecundation suc- ceeded best when the ova had not been im- mersed in water for any considerable time pre- vious to the addition of the seminal fluid. The fecundation was less certain the longer the ova were allowed to remain in water before the ad- dition of the semen ; and it was shewn that this did not depend simply on the length of time of the separation of the ova from the body of the parent, by the fact that ova taken from the oviduct and kept without moisture re- tained their susceptibility of being fecundated for a much longer period, as sixteen or twenty hours. 4th. That the seminal fluid of the frog retains its fecundating power for about thirty hours after it has left the body of the male. 5th. Attempts were made by both the expe- rimenters above quoted to ascertain, by way of experiment, whether the seminal animalcules are indispensable to fecundation. Spallanzani came to the conclusion that the seminal fluid did not lose its peculiar powers although de- prived of its animalcules, or although the ani- malcules were dead; but it must be admitted that the means employed by that observer to ascertain the presence or absence of the seminal animalcule were inferior to those we possess in more recent times. Messrs. Prevost and Dumas, who, it has already been remarked, consider the animalcules as the most important part of the seminal fluid in reference to its fecundating properties, state that they found in their experiments, that that part of the seminal fluid which had been subjected to a very careful filtration, and which had thus been wholly de- prived of its animalcules, had lost all fecunda- ting power, while the substance which remained in the filter, and which was rich in animalcules when diluted with water, possessed the same powers of fecundation as the pure seminal fluid. We think this experiment requires repetition and some modifications, for other ingredients, besides the animalcules of the seminal fluid, might be retained on the filter. 6th. Both Spallanzani and Prevostand Dumas have attempted to estimate the quantity of seminal fluid required for the fecundation of a certain number of ova, and the latter observers, pursuing their favourite idea to the utmost, have even endeavoured to calculate the number of animalcules which are necessary for the fructi- fication of one or more ova. In Spallanzani's experiments two grains of the semen of the toad fecundated one hundred and thirteen ova. Five grains of semen were mixed with eighteen ounces of water; the point of a needle dipped in this was made to touch an egg for an instant and produced fecundation. The proportion here might be estimated as