761 HERNIA. taken singly may prove but an indifferent dia- gnostic, but in the aggregate they establish such distinction that it must be the result of sad in- attention or of actual ignorance if any serious mistake is committed. It has been stated that a varix of the saphena vein may present symptoms and appearances strongly resembling crural hernia, inasmuch as the tumour disappears under pressure or in the horizontal posture, and returns again imme- diately on these influences being removed, and also as it receives a certain degree of impulse from coughing or sneezing. From anatomical considerations it would almost seem impossible that such an error could be committed, and at first sight the observation seems to have been made for the purpose of creating nice distinc- tions and rendering the subject apparently com- plete rather than for any practical utility. A case, however, is related by Petit, who distin- guished the real nature of the tumour by its dark-coloured appearance and by the general varicose state of the remainder of the vein. If difficulty is experienced in any particular case, it may be easily resolved by making pressure on the trunk of the iliac vein above Poupart's ligament, when the tumour will re-appear, even although the patient maintains the horizontal posture. " Fatty tumours are not unfrequently found on dissection occupying the exact situation of crural hernia. I have not had an opportunity of seeing any case of this kind in the living body, but have had occasion to remark at least five or six instances of it every season in the dissecting room, from which I presume such tumours are more common than is generally suspected. In all those instances the fatty tu- mour was connected with or rather seemed to grow from the outer surface of the peritoneum lining the crural ring; and the inner surface of this membrane when viewed from the abdomen had a contracted, wrinkled, and thickened ap- pearance, resembling very closely the appearance of a reduced hernial sac. Whether the perito- neum had been protruded in these instances I cannot pretend to say; nor can I venture to lay down the symptoms which should guide us in our diagnosis in the living body. This much at least is obvious, that these steatoma- tous tumours will not be accompanied by symptoms of strangulation."* Umbilical hernia.— The navel is the remnant of an aperture that had been situated nearly in the centre of the front of the belly, but nearer to the pubis than to the ensiform cartilage: it is placed in the lmea alba,and of course its edges are tendinous. During foetal life it serves for the transmission of the umbilical vein and arte- ries, but its size is greater than would merely suffice for the passage of these vessels, in order that the circulation of the blood through them should suffer no interruption by accidental com- pression ; and in a foetus of seven months the edge of the aponeurotic opening is still thin, weak, and unresisting. After birth, when the * This passage is copied from Colles's Surg. Ana- tomy, p. 84. navel string (as it is called) has dropped off, the umbilical aperture begins to close, until finally that puckered cicatrix is formed, the appearance of which is so familiar; but the periods at which this process commences and is completed, and the circumstances that may occur to interfere with it, are of some importance with reference to the phenomena of hernia. Scarpa says that it begins immediately, and that if the finger is passed up the peritoneal wall of the abdomen in a child two months after birth, not only will the navel be found firmly formed and completely cicatrised, but there will be a knot or elevation felt at this spot, shewing that it is then really stronger than most other parts of the abdominal parietes Lawrence states that the contraction commences about the third or fourth month after birth, and thence inculcates the necessity of an infant being tolerably accu- rately bandaged anterior to that period in order to prevent the occurrence of umbilical rupture from its struggles or its cries. It is not of much consequence which of these opinions may be correct: probably both are so to a cer- tain extent, for the opening is larger in some infants than in others, and will require a longer time to close, and the process of obliteration does not commence in all exactly at the same period after birth. Whatever variety may exist in this respect, when the process is com- plete the umbilicus can never afterwards be called an aperture; it never again re-opens; and when ruptures are observed in after-life seem- ing to occupy this situation, it will be found on examination that some neighbouring parts of the linea alba have given way, and the disease more strictly belongs to the ventral than to umbilical hernia. It appears then that by the salutary provi- sions of nature the front of the abdominal pa- rietes is well supported, and the contained viscera protected from protrusion ; and even if the operations by which the umbilicus is closed should be accidentally suspended or interfered with, (as by the presence of a hernia for in- stance,) the disposition is not lost, and the aper- ture preserves its tendency to close and become obliterated for the first five or six years of childhood. Thus at any time within that period there may be a reasonable probability of obtain- ing a permanent cure of umbilical hernia; whereas after the age of ten or twelve years this disposition ceases to operate, or at least is greatly impaired, and there is little or no chance of so fortunate an occurrence. The condition in which the umbilicus exists at and after birth divides the hernia? that occur in this situation into different orders according as they may appear at the period of birth or afterwards. Scarpa considers the disease to consist of only two species, the congenital and the adventitious—the congenital being that which appears in the infant when born, and the other occurring at any subsequent period. Lawrence speaks of three kinds, the congenital, that which appears at birth, and in which the protruded viscera are lodged in the umbilical cord; the umbilical hernia of children occur- ring after the navel has been formed, but pro-