ENDOSMOSIS. 99 tending branch containing a column of mer- cury,* which was raised by the interior fluid of the §ndosmometer in proportion as the en- dosmosis, increased the volume of this fluid.* By means of these two instruments I have foetid that the velocity and strength of endos- mosis follow exactly the same law. Both are m relation to the quantities which express, in two comparative experiments, the excess of density of two dense fluids contained in the endosmometer, above the density of water, which in these two experiments is exterior to the instrument. Thus, for example, in putting successively into the same endosmometer, syrup of which the density is 1.1, and syrup of which the density is 1.2, and in plunging in both cases the reservoir of the endosmometer into pure water, you obtain in the first case an en- dosmosis, of which the strength and velocity are represented by 1, and in the second case an endosmosis, of which the strength and velocity are represented by 2 ; that is to say, by the numbers relative to the fractionals 0.1 and 0.2, which express the excesses of density of the two solutions of sugar above the density of water, which is 1. I have ascertained by ex- periment that the strength of endosmosis is such that, with syrup of which the density is 1.11, and an endosmometer, the opening of which is closed by three pieces of bladder, one over the other, you obtain an endosmosis which raises the mercury to 1 metre 238 millimetres, or 4.5 inches 9 lines, which is equivalent to an elevation of water of 16 metres 77 centimetres, or 51 feet 8 inches. It follows from this, that in employing syrup, of which the density was 1.33, (its ordinary density,) you would obtain an endosmosis, the strength of which would be capable of raising water more than 150 feet. Fluids of a different nature have, with refer- ence to endosmosis, properties which are in no way in proportion to their respective densities. Thus sugar-water and gum-water of the same density, being put successively into the same endosmometer, which is plunged into pure water, the former produces the endosmosis with a velocity as 17, and the latter with a velocity as 8 only. I have seen, in the same manner, a solution of hydrochlorate of soda and a solution of sulphate of soda of the same density, put successively in the same endosmo- meter surrounded with pure water; the velo- city of the endosmosis produced by the solu- tion of sulphate of soda is exactly double that of the endosmosis produced by the solution of hydrochlorate of soda. These results are inva- riable, and I am persuaded that if 1 have ever obtained a different result, the experiment has been defective. I have made several experiments since with gelatinous and albuminous waters placed suc- cessively in the same endosmometer, surround- ed with pure water, which produced endos- mosis severally in the proportion of 1 to 4 ; so that the albumen had four times more power of endosmosis than the gelatine. I have seen * See my work entitled, Nouvelles Recherches sur l'cndosmose et l'exosmose, &c. 8vo. Paris, 1828. by another experiment that the power of en- dosmosis of syrup is to the power of endos- mosis of albuminous water of the same den- sity, as 11 is to 12. All alkalies and soluble salts produce en- dosmosis ; so do all acids, but each with spe- cial phenomena, which will be noticed by and by. These chemical agents in general occasion an endosmosis of short duration only, when the endosmometer is closed with a portion of an animal membrane. Organic fluids alone, which are not very sensibly either acid or alkaline, or salt, produce lasting endosmosis, which, in- deed, does not stop until the fluids are altered by putrefaction, when they become charged with sulphuretted hydrogen. I have shown that when an endosmometer is closed with a thin plate of baked clay instead of the animal mem- brane, the endosmosis which a saline solution produces, and which would have stopped in a few hours with the animal membrane, continues to go on indefinitely with the baked clay. The property of destroying endosmosis may be considered as belonging to all chemical re- agents, but merely on account of their sus- ceptibility to enter into combination with the permeable partition of the endosmometer. Thus all acids, alkalies, soluble salts, alcohol, &c. being disposed to combine with the elements of organic membranes, destroy endosmosis, al- though they had induced it before their complete combination with the elements of the membrane had taken place ; and it is not until this combi- nation is complete that endosmosis ceases. Or- ganic fluids, which have no chemical action upon the elements of the membrane of the endosmo- meter, ought not, consequently, to tend to the destruction of endosmosis, unless some change should take place which should give them a chemical action, such as they usually acquire by decomposition, when they usually become charged with sulphuretted hydrogen. My earlier experiments tended to show that carbonate of lime (chuux carbonatee) reduced to thin laminje, and employed to close an en- dosmometer, is totally without the power of producing endosmosis; my latter experiments have somewhat modified this conclusion. After having vainly employed lamhrae of carbonate of lime of greater or less thickness, I finished .by making use of one of white marble, two millimetres in thickness, but with no better success. Without carrying my experiments further, I concluded that porous carbonate of lime was totally unapt to excite endosmosis. This conclusion having, notwithstanding, left some doubts in my mind, I again took the same plate of marble with the intention of measuring- its permeability to water, compared with the various degrees of thickness which I could give it, and of renewing, at the same time, my at- tempts to make it produce endosmosis. Having closed an endosmometer with this plate of mar- ble, I filled the reservoir and the tube of the instrument with pure water, and suspended it over a vessel filled with water,in which the plate of marble only was immersed. If the marble had been permeable to water, the fluid con- tained in the endosmometer would have flowed h 2