316 FCETUS. upon both sides, the lower jaw ceases to be supported by its muscles, and falls.* Influence of disease on the junctions of the nerve.—The inferences drawn from the anatomy of the nerve and from physiological experiment conjointly have been confirmed in a remarkable manner by the effect of disease of the nerve upon the functions of the parts to which it is distributed: several instances have been pub- lished exemplifying either partially or com- pletely that effect, when, whether from disease of the trunk of the nerve itself or from pressure upon it, its office has been interrupted, all the parts supplied by it are deprived altogether of both their tactile and ordinary sensibility: this loss of sensibility extends to the whole of the corresponding side of the head so far as the distribution of the nerve reaches to the fore- head, temple, ear, surface of the eye and its appendages, cheek, nostril externally and inter- nally, lower part of the face, lips, and mouth, the corresponding half of the tongue, of the palate, and the fauces ; upon all these parts the roughest contact produces no perceptible im- pression ; inflammation is not attended by pain, the most pungent or irritating effluvia do not affect the nostril or the conjunctiva, and the sense of taste is altogether lost in the aute- rior part of the same side of the tongue : at the same time the muscles of mastication—the ex- ternal ones at least—lose their contractile power, remain inactive during the process and waste, whence are produced a flattening and depres- sion in the site of the temporal and masseter, with prominence of the adjoining points of bone : however the special senses continue un- affected apparently, unless in so far as the sense of contact may be necessary to the perfect or ordinary fulfilment of their function, the olfac- tory function seems much impaired ; the pa- tient is insensible to the impression of ammo- nia, snuff, or other pungent agent, but still ac- knowledges a perception of odour. Vision continues throughout, and appears unaf- fected, unless from the supervention of in- flammation, by which the eye may be spoiled, or from the extension of the disease to the optic nerve or the brain: in the case before alluded to, which the author has witnessed, vision re- mained perfect for a considerable time ; amau- rotic symptoms supervened during the course of the disease; but even after the occurrence of opacity of the cornea in consequence of in- flammation, the patient could still distinguish light. Hearing appears to have been affected in most, if not all the cases, in which the dis- ease had attained a considerable degree; it was so in the case seen by the author; the sense of contact would seem associated with the perfect exercise of the sense. The facial muscles re- tain their contractile power; in the instance alluded to, though the temporal and masseter seemed quite paralyzed, the buccinator acted with energy as ascertained by holding the cheek between the finger and thumb during its con- tractions ; the slight want of adjustment, which may occur about the mouth, seems caused by * Magendie, Bell. the want of sensation in the lips. Lastly, in all such cases the eye of the affected side is liable to have inflammation excited in it by incidental causes ; for the most part this occurs at an advanced stage of the disease, and can be referred to some exciting cause; it is attended by but little, if any pain, and opacity of the cornea is an usual result.* (For the Bibliography see Nerve.) (B. Alcock.) FOETUS, Gr. wnpa.; Ft, foetus; Germ. die Frucht; (normal anatomy). See Ovum. FOETUS (abnormal anatomy). Considering the peculiar circumstances of the foetus in utero, we would, at first sight, be inclined to suppose that, although of course exposed to the risk of injury from accidents or diseases occurring to the mother, it would not be liable to many or serious accidents of its own; nevertheless, ob- servation and experience soon reveal to us a very different state of facts, and force upon us the sad truth that the seeds of life are often sown adulterated with those of infirmity and decay, that disease may mutilate, and death destroy, even before our entrance into life ; for as far as investigation has enabled us to reach, we have reason to believe that the child before birth is not only liable to certain affections which may be considered peculiarly its own, but is also subject to almost all those which affect the adult. Of these affections some appear to be, 1. strictly innate in the constitution of the foetus; 2. some communicated by infection from the mother's system ; 3. some from the father's sys- tem, or perhaps through that of the mother, she herself not being the subject of the affection entailed, as in certain forms of syphilis, scrofula, and small-pox ; 4. some, from strong mental impressions on the mother; 5. some, arising from morbid alterations in the envelopes of the ovum, the placenta, and cord, or in the uterus itself; 6. some, from the influence of external agents, as falls, blows, pressure, &c. The investigation of these abnormal con- ditions is invested with a deep interest, not only as an important pathological inquiry, but as conducive to the adoption of mea- sures calculated to be beneficial to both mo- ther and child; to the child, by suggesting the strong necessity for preventing the exposure of the mother to influences likely to affect the welfare of her unborn offspring, as well as for removing their effects by proper remedial means : and to the mother, by affording us occasionally information of the existence of diseased taints in her system, of which we might otherwise long remain ignorant; or by guarding her against the ill effects of unhealthy states of the child; for, although each indivi- dual has a separate existence, there is at the * Mayo, Commentaries and Physiology ; Bell, Philosoph. Transactions and on Nerves, 1830; Serres, Journal de Physiologic, t. viii; Noble, Medical Gazette ; Bishop, Medical Gazette, vol. xvii.