459 GENERATION. a lid somewhat like the cork of a phial, be- tween which and the main body of the case a spiral spring is interposed, so contrived that when the case is immersed in water the spring expands, forces off the top of the case, and allows the seminal fluid to issue from the interior. We must refer to the anatomical articles for an account of the varieties- of structure of the male generative organs in different animals. In some of those in which the vesiciila; semi- nales are wanting, as in the familiar example of the dog, copulation is necessarily longer than in others. Very little is known as to the uses of the prostatic body or Cowper's glands. See Generation, Organs of.- Spermatic animalcules.—The most reinark-< able circumstance undoubtedly which is known respecting the spermatic fluid, is the almost constant existence in it of an immense number of minute moving bodies of the nature of In- fusorial animalculae,— the well-known and celebrated spermatic animalcules, which, since the time of their first discovery in 1677, have excited the curiosity and speculative fancy of many naturalists.* The spermatic animalcules have been found, at one time or other, in the semen of almost all the animals in which they have been sought for,f but at that period of their life, and in that season of the year only, when the animals to which they belong are fit for propagation. They are diminished in number, or even en- tirely disappear, after very frequent emission of the seminal fluid. They almost always exist in the fluid secreted by the testicles, and very often in that of the seminal vesicles, into which they have doubtless been introduced along with the fluid of the testicles. From these circumstances, as well as others to which we shall afterwards advert, there is good reason to believe, that the existence of seminal animalcules in the male product is in some way or other intimately connected with the integrity of its fecundating property; if not, * Haller states as his conviction, that Ludwig Hamm (then a student at Leyden) -was the first discoverer of the seminal animalcules in August of 1677. Leeuwenhoek claimed the merit of having made the discovery, in November of the same year, and in 1678, Hartsoeker published an account of them, professing to have seen them as early as in 1674. A great deal has since been written re- garding them. Needham, Buffon, Der Gleichcn, Spallanzani, Prevost and Dumas, and Wagner, may be mentioned as those who have devoted most attention to these curious little animals. Our remarks are taken chiefly from the investigations of the three last authors, as well as from original observations. t The class of fishes are stated by Messrs. Pre- vost and Dumas to form an exception to this remark, these observers not having been able to discover any seminal animalcules in the seminal fluid of fishes ; but they are stated to have been seen by older authors (see Hallcr's Elementa, vol. vii. p. 521); and from the latest investigations it appears that they exist, though of a form different from the spermatic animalculae of most other ani- mals. The author has seen them very clearly in the seminal fluid of the Perch, and one or two other fishes. See Fig. 51, p. 112, vol. ii. as some are inclined to hold, the essential cause of it. The form, appearance, and size of the semi- nal animalcule are different in almost every different animal, and in each species of the more perfect animals the kind of animalcule seems, like that of Entozoa, to be constant and determinate. While, therefore, these little crea- tures, by their minute size and their general structure and appearance (so far as these are known), are distinctly animals of the infusorial kind, their residence in other living animals entitles them to be classed among the Entozoa. Baer considers them as most nearly allied to the Cercaria among the Infusoria, and gives them the very appropriate name of Sperma- tozoa. ,", In what we have hitherto said of the seminal animaicules, we have drawn our description principally from what has been observed in quadrupeds and birds, but they differ consi- derably from these in some of the inferior animals. Czermak* holds that these various forms may be referred to three principal heads, viz.:— 1. Cephaloidea, merely rounded bodies with- out tails, existing in fishes and some Annelida. 2. Uroidea, thread-like, in Mollusca, Am- phibia, and some birds. 3. Cephal-uroidea, consisting of a globular and a tail part, in Mammalia, Birds, and In- sects. /^^- '— The first of thesif ki/Sds of Spermatozoa are like the Monades among Infusoria, the second resemble the Vibriones, and the third, as has been already remarked, the Cercaria, It is important to remark that, in so far as has as yet been ascertained, the form and size of the spermatic animalcules do not bear any intimate relation to the animal in which they exist, nor to the ova of the female. In respect of form, Messrs. Prevost and Dumas state that the head is usually of a round lenticular shape in quadrupeds, while in most birds it is of a long oval shape; but in some birds the form is the same as in most quadrupeds. The semi- nal animalcules present nearly the same ap- pearance in man and in the dog. Various marking's are represented in the cephalic por- tion of the animalculae of some quadrupeds by Messrs. Prevost and Dumas, but these, we are inclined to believe, are not constant, and are appearances which have arisen from acci- dental circumstances. In respect to size, there appears to be still a greater want of correspondence. The semi- nal animalculae are said not to be larger in the whale than in the mouse. They are very much larger in Insects, Mollusca, and others of the lower animals than in Man. In the snail they are fifty-four times longer than in the dog, and considerably larger in the mouse than in the horse >. The following table exhibits approximatively the sizes of the spermatic animalculae of some * Beytrage zu der Lehre von der Spermatozoen, Wien, 1833. 2 II 2