506 BONES OF THE HAND. by this bone is easily felt during life, more especially during flexion of the wrist-joint. It is round every where, except posteriorly, where it presents a flat circular surface, by which it is articulated with the cuneiform bone. This bone is intimately connected with and as it were inclosed in the terminal portion of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. 5. Os trapezium (os multangulum majus; Fr. le trapeze; Germ, das grouse vielysinkliche Bein). This bone is situated at the radial extremity of the inferior carpal row, having the scaphoid above it and the metacarpal bone of the thumb below it. We may describe six surfaces upon it, four articular and two non- articular, a. A large articular surface, situated on the external and inferior aspect of the bone. This surface is for articulation with the meta- carpal bone of the thumb: it is somewhat oval in form, the long axis passing from without inwards and downwards; in this direction it is concave, from before backwards it is convex. The three remaining articular surfaces are on the internal and superior aspects of the bone. b. Internally, a very small plane surface, adapted to a corresponding one on the radial side of the carpal extremity of the second metacarpal bone. c. Above the last described surface and separated from it merely by a slight ridge, we find one of a somewhat triangular form and slightly concave, articulated with the radial side of the trapezoid, d. Quite on the superior aspect a small semicircular surface, adapted to the scaphoid. Of the non-articular surfaces, one is on the palmar aspect of the bone, and is easily distinguished by the prominent ridge or tubercle at its outer part, which gives attach- ment to the annular ligament, (tuberculum, eminentia carpi radialis inferior;) and on the ulnar side of this ridge a groove in which the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis glides. The second non-articular surface is on the dorsal aspect: it is more extensive than the last, rough and tuberculated, affording insertion to ligaments. 6. Os trapezoides (os multangulum minus; Fr. le trapezoide; Germ, das K/eine viel- winkliche Bein). This is the second bone of the inferior carpal row ; it has the os trapezium on its radial and the os magnum on its ulnar side, the scaphoid above and the second meta- carpal bone below it. We describe four articular surfaces and two non-articular, a. The inferior one the largest, quadrilateral, much narrower in front than behind, convex from side to side, slightly concave from before backwards, is entirely devoted to articulation with the second metacarpal bone. b. On the radial side, a slightly convex surface for the trapezium. c. Superiorly a quadrilateral concave surface for articulation with the scaphoid, d. On the ulnar side a very small surface, adapted to a corresponding one on the radial side of the os magnum. The palmar surface is non-articular, five-sided, slightly excavated, and rough from the insertion of ligaments. The dorsal surface, also non-articular, is of greater extent, con- vex, and likewise rough. 7. Os magnum (os capitatum ; Fr. le grand os; Germ, das Kupfbein). This bone is, as its name implies, principally characterized by its excess in size over the other carpal bones, and from the number of bones with which it is connected, it may be regarded as the key-bone of the carpus. Superiorly it is in the form of a rounded head (capitulum), flattened on the ulnar side, where it articulates with the unciform bone. The superior prominent portion of this head is received into the excavation of the lunar bone, and by its radial side it articulates with the inferior hollow surface of the scaphoid. The inferior portion of the bone is cuboid, and has been called the body ; it is rough and con- vex on its palmar surface, also rough but irregular on its dorsal, both these surfaces affording insertion to numerous ligaments. Inferiorly we notice an extensive articular sur- face, which is adapted in the centre to the third metacarpal bone, on the radial side to the second, and by a very small portion on the ulnar side to the fourth metacarpal bone. On the ulnar side of its inferior portion it articu- lates a second time with the os unciforme by a small circular articular surface, the cir- cumference of which nearly equals that of the flat surface of a split pea. Lastly, on its radial side it articulates with the trapezoid bone. Thus the os magnum articulates with seven bones; three metacarpal bones, two carpal bones in the inferior row, and two in the supe- rior row. 8. Os unciforme (from uncus, a hook, os ha- matum; Fr, pos crocliu ou unciforme; Germ. das Hakenbein, oder Keilformiger Knocfien). This bone has received its name from that which allows of its being easily distinguished from all the carpal bones,—namely, the hooked process, which projects from the radial edge of its palmar surface. This process constitutes a considerable prominence on the ulnar side of the carpus (eminentia carpi ulnaris inferior), and affords insertion to the annular ligament. Its concavity looks towards the radial side of the carpus; the remainder of the palmar sur- face is rough for ligamentous insertion. The dorsal surface is likewise rough, convex, and of considerable extent. This bone articulates inferiorly with the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, on its radial side with the os magnum, and on its superior surface with the cuneiform bone. Structure of the carpal bones.—These bones are chiefly composed of the reticular osseous tissue, to which their extreme lightness is attri- butable, the surface being invested by a thin layer of compact texture, in this respect per- fectly resembling the bones of the tarsus. Developement.—The carpal bones are very late in their developement; at birth they are completely cartilaginous. According to Cru- veilhier, each bone is developed by a single point of ossification. The os magnum and os unciforme are the first in which the ossific pro- cess commences, about the end of the first year; between the third and fourth years it begins in the cuneiform, a year later in the trapezium and lunar, and between the eighth and ninth years in the scaphoid and trapezoid bones. The ossification of the pisiform does