296 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. a more particular account of it necessary than would otherwise be required. The chorda tym- pani—a delicate filament—is given offfrom the portio dura shortly before that nerve escapes from the aqueduct of Fallopius, behind and be- low the tympanum : it passes upward and for- ward toward the tympanum, contained in a spe- cial canal of the bone, and having reached the back of the chamber it emerges from its posterior wall through a small aperture beneath the base of the pyramid; it then attaches itself to the outer wall of the tympanum and crosses it toward the anterior, having first received* a delicate filament from the sympathetic, and running forward, upward, and outward. During its course from the posterior to the anterior wall it is situate at first beneath the short cms of the incus, then between the long crus of the incus and the superior part of the handle of the malleus, to which it is connected by the lining membrane of the tympanum. Having ascended above the internal muscle of the malleus it changes its direction and runs down- ward, forward, and inward along the superior anterior part of the circumference of the mem- brana tympani, until it has reached the anterior wall of the chamber, from which it goes out through the Glaserian fissure, along the tendon of the anterior muscle of the malleus. It is throughout excluded from the interior of the tympanum by the lining membrane, which is connected to it upon that side; it is therefore incorrect to say that it crosses the chamber. After its escape from the tympanum the nerve continues to descend forward and inward in front of the levator palati muscle, and after a course from three-fourths of an inch to an inch long it is attached at a very acute angle to the back of the lingual branch, becomes inclosed in the same sheath with the nerve, and con- tinues connected with it altogether until the nerve has reached the posterior extremity of the submaxillary gland: at that point the chorda tympani divides into two parts, one of which is despatched to the submaxillary gan- glion, and the other continued along with the lingual branch. By somef it is stated that it separates from the nerve at the ganglion, and is altogether ununited to it; this, however, is incorrect. During its descent in company with the lingual branch there may be observed, upon particular examination of the conjoined trunk, a communication and identification be- tween the nervous matter of the two nerves. Originally the chorda tympani was regarded as either a recurrent filament of the lingual branch of the fifth or a branch of the portio dura : afterwards the opinion was adopted that it was not a branch of the portio dura, but the cranial superficial petrous branch of the Vidian nerve, which, instead of uniting and being iden- tified with the portio dura, descended through the aqueduct merely in apposition with it or within the same sheath, separated from it again before the nerve escaped from the aqueduct, and constituted the chorda tympani. This view * Bock, Meckel junior, Cloquet. t Cloquet. of the nature of the chord, suggested first, as it would appear, by J. Hunter, has been advo- cated also by Cloquet and Hirzel, and is at present entertained by many in this country at least; it has been objected to by Arnold, and another has been advanced by him from obser- vations made upon the calf and the human subject. Hunter's account of the connection of the nerves is as follows : " This nerve com- posed of portio dura and the branch of the fifth pair sends off, in the adult, the chorda tympani before its exit from the skull, and in the foetus, immediately after. The termination of the branch called chorda tympani I shall not de- scribe, yet I am almost certain it is not a branch of the seventh pair of nerves, but the last-described branch from the fifth pair," i. e. the Vidian, " for I think I have been able to separate this branch from the portio dura, and have found it lead to the chorda tympani; per- haps is continued into it; but this is a point very difficult to determine, as the portio dura is a compact nerve, and not so fasciculated as some others are."* According to Arnold, nei- ther of the previous opinions is correct; but the petrous nerve anastomoses with filaments of the facial nerve, principally the external, with which it forms a gangliform swelling at the place at which the nerve receives it; and the branch which forms the corda tympani arises from the gangliform swelling of the facial nerve, and holds in an intimate manner to the petrous nerve; however it is not to be consi- dered a continuation of the latter: it is united, during its course, to the facial nerve by several filaments, and consequently the chorda tympani ought to be regarded neither as a branch of the facial nerve nor as a continuation of the petrous nerve, but as one composed of both.f Cru- veilhier J maintains that the chorda tympani is not a prolongation of the Vidian nerve, but he assigns no reason for his opinion. The ques- tion at issue probably cannot be decided from the human subject: the impediment opposed to its satisfactory determination by the density of the facial nerve, as admitted by Hunter, and by the manner in which the facial and the Vidian nerves are in it blended together at their junction, will hardly permit the point being accurately ascertained; but the same diffi- culty does not exist in other animals, and if the disposition of the Vidian nerve at its junction with the facial be examined, in the horse e.g., no doubt will remain that, 1. the Vidian nerve certainly does not run simply in apposition with the facial nerve, and, 2. the chorda tympani is certainly not a mere conti- nuation of the Vidian nerve. In the horse the facial nerve is much less dense, and more easily analyzed than in man, and at the point of junc- tion with the Vidian its filaments are so free and so loosely connected, that little more is re- quired than to open the packet without violence in order to display satisfactorily the disposition of the Vidian at its junction with the facial: the * Animal (Economy, p. 267. t Journ. Compl. t. xxiv. p. 339, 341. i Anatomie Descriptive.