HEART. 612 Upon what does this irritability of the heart depend ?—This has been one of the most keenly agitated questions in physiology, as a great part of the experiments, and much of the reasoning upon the nature of muscular irritability, have been furnished by this organ. As, however, the general doctrines entertained on this subject have already been fully discussed under the article Contractility, we shall here confine ourselves to a few of the leading facts connected with it which have a special reference to the heart. The two principal questions on this point since the time of Haller have been, whe- ther does it depend upon nervous influence ? or is it a property of the muscular fibre itself independent of the nerves ? • We have seen that the nerves distributed upon the heart are the par vagum and sympa- thetic. Numerous experimenters have removed portions of the par. vagum on both sides of the neck without the slightest diminution of the strength of the contractions of the heart. These experiments we have frequently performed with the same results. There can now be no doubt that the sudden death which occasionally fol- lows this operation is not to be attributed to the cessation of the heart's action, as some of the older experimenters believed, but, as Legallois has shewn, it depends upon an arrestment of the movements of the muscles attached to the arytenoid cartilages. Portions of the sympa- thetic have also been destroyed in the middle of the neck without any effect upon the con- traction of the heart, except what could be sufficiently accounted for by the pain of the incisions and the terror of the animal. A por- tion of both of the sympathetic and pneumo- gastric nerves may be removed in the neck with the same results; in fact we cannot, in the dog and most quadrupeds, cut the par vagum in the middle of the neck without also dividing the sympathetic. Magendie affirms that all the sympathetic ganglia of the neck, along with the first dorsal, may be removed without any sensible derangement of the parts to which their nerves are distributed. Brachet* supposes that the reason why the excision of the sympathetic ganglia in the neck does not always arrest the heart's action, is because there is another source of nervous influence for the cardiac nerves placed below this in the cardiac plexus or ganglion. He accordingly put this opinion to the test of experiment, and he as- sures us that the total destruction of the cardiac plexus was followed by the sudden and perma- nent arrestment of the heart's action. Now may be readily increased or renewed under those circumstances, by mild excitants applied to its inner surface, are completely opposed to the supposition that the heart is called into contraction in a manner similar to those sympathetic movements more lately described under the term excito-motary. Though this mode of explanation may be considered quite legitimate when applied to those sympathetic move- ments which do not require the intervention of the brain for their performance, such as deglutition, respiration, &c, it is certainly pushing the doctrine far beyond its proper limits to apply it to the explanation of the movements of the heart. * Du systeme nerveux ganglionairc.. p. 120. when we consider the nature of such an ex- periment as this, with the chest of the animal laid open, the respiration arrested, and the heart exposed during the time the experimenter is searching and tearing for the plexus placed deep behind the aorta and pulmonary artery, and which would require a considerable time to display even in the dead body when unem- barrassed by the movements of the heart, we must be more astonished that the action of the heart had not completely ceased before the ex- periment was finished, than that it should have continued so long. Besides, even allowing that this experiment could be relied upon, we have sufficient evidence, from the facts stated above, to entitle us to conclude that the heart is not dependent for its movement upon any influence constantly transmitted along its nerves from the central organs of the nervous system,—the brain and spinal marrow. Brachet is himself obliged to admit, from other experiments which he performed, that the division of the sympa- thetic at the lower part of the neck is not suffi- cient to arrest the heart's action, so that this experiment is intended to shew that its irrita- bility depends upon the ganglia of the sympa- thetic itself. The independence of the irrita- bility of the heart upon the brain and spinal marrow can be very satisfactorily proved in another manner. The occurrence of acephalous monsters,* and the experiments of Wilson Philip,! CliftjJ and Brachet§ demonstrate that the brain or spinal marrow may be naturally wanting ; that one or both of them may be removed entirely, or destroyed in small portions at a time, without arresting the heart's action. We may here observe that the experiments of Legallois,|| Wilson Philip, Wedemeyer,1f Bra- chet, and many others, in which the action of the heart was arrested by crushing large portions of the brain or spinal marrow, though they do not prove the dependence of the irritability of the heart upon the brain and spinal cord, at least shew, what the effects of mental emotions upon the movements of the heart had already pointed out, that it can be influenced to a great and most important extent through these organs. The advocates for the dependence of the irrita- bility of the heart upon the nerves appear to have pretty generally abandoned the opinion that this is derived from the central organs of the nervous system, and now maintain the doctrine, which was more prominently deve- loped by Bichat, that this is derived from the sympathetic, the ganglia of which, according to him, are independent sources of nervous influence. From the manner in which the sympathetic is distributed upon the heart, it is * The heart is generally though not always ab- sent in acephalous monsters. f Experimental Inquiry into the vital functions. X Phil. Trans. 1815. § Systeme nerveux ganglionaire. || Legallois performed these experiments on the spinal cord alone, and supposed he had proved that the movements of the heart were dependent upon that portion of the nervous system. K Physiol. Untersuchungen iiber das Nerven- systcm, &c. p. 235.