EC HI NOD ERM ATA. 44 intestine, form a plexus along its first portion, whose branches ultimately terminate in a large longitudinal venous trunk (n, n, n, n). The blood is conveyed from this great vein to the right branch of the respiratory organ, (which lies between the first and second portions of intestine,) by a considerable number of vessels which divide like arteries into smaller ramifi- cations on the lung, and may therefore be com- pared to pulmonary arteries. The capillary branches of these vessels transmit the blood into the commencing pulmonary veins, which, uniting into larger and larger branches, ter- minate in a third longitudinal vessel (t>), situated on the second portion of intestine. This last-mentioned vessel, which may be con- sidered as the great pulmonary vein, sends branches on the intestine which open into the wide part of the main artery, and thus the blood is carried to the place whence it set out. According to Delle Chiaje, the principal vein, after diminishing in width, opens into the oblong sac which is connected with the vessels of the feet, and out of this bag six vessels issue. One of these is the great artery, which runs along the intestine; the other five are the vessels of the tentacula and feet previously described; each of them sends four branches forwards to the tentacula, and a long one backwards between the longitudinal muscles to the vesicles of the feet. 5. Nerves.—Tiedemann discovered a nervous system in the star-fish. He describes it (in A. aurantiaca) as consisting of a delicate white cord surrounding the mouth, in form of a ring immediately on the outside of the circular vessel into which the heart opens, and of di- verging filaments which arise from the annular cord opposite the rays. (Fig. 23.) There are Fig. 23. c,feet; e,feet cut across ; f, apertures for the feet. three filaments for each ray; one runs along the under surface in the median line, and ap- pears to send small branches to the feet; the other two, which are shorter, pass between the first and second segment of the ray into the interior of the body, and are probably distri- buted to the stomach. Tiedemann could dis- cover no ganglia, but others describe minute ganglia as existing at the points where the diverging filaments originate.* The Echinodermata have not generally been supposed to possess any other sense than that of touch. Professor Ehrenberg has how- ever recently called attention to certain parts in the Asterias, which he is disposed to re- gard as organs of vision.f These have the ap- pearance of small red spots, one of which is seen at the extremity of each ray. They have been long known to exist in several species of Asterias, but no one ever assigned to them any particular use till lately, when Professor Ehrenberg, struck with their resemblance in aspect to the eyes of Entomostraca and Infusoria, conjectured that they might be of the same nature. He states that he has traced the long nerve of the ray as far as the extremity, where it swells into a sort of ganglion with which the red point or supposed eye is connected. In the Echinus Tiedemann observed fine filaments on the internal surface of the mem- brane which fills the inferior opening of the shell, and on the dental apparatus and the longitudinal vessels of the feet, from which he inferred that a nervous system probably existed in the Echinus analogous in form to that of the Asterias. In the same way he was led to sus- pect the existence of such a system in the Holothuria, though by dissection he could make out nothing more than several exceedingly delicate filaments, some of which were situated in the neighbourhood of the mouth, and ap- peared to enter the tentacula, and others lay on the longitudinal muscles. Dr. Grant de- scribes a connected nervous system in the Echi- nus and Holothuria, but without mentioning on whose observations his description, which we here transcribe, is founded. " A nervous chord," he states, " is seen round the oeso- phagus of the Echinus, which sends delicate white filaments to the complicated muscular and sensitive apparatus of the mouth; other nerves are seen extending upwards from the same oesophageal ring, along the course of the vessels in the interior of the abdominal cavity. In the Holothuria the nervous sys- tem is extensively developed. Interior to the osseous apparatus of the mouth is a white nervous ring around the oesophagus, from which nerves pass outwards to the large ramified tentacula around the mouth, and others extend upwards along the course of the eight strong longitudinal muscular bands. Fine white filaments are likewise seen passing inwards to the stomach and alimentary ap- paratus."! In a recent notice of some obser- vations on the Echinus by M. Van Beneden, it is stated that he distinctly recognized a nervous collar surrounding the oesophagus. 6. Generative organs. — The only organs hitherto discovered in the Echinodermata, which * Grant's Comparative Anatomy, p. 184. t Miiller's Archiv fiir Anatomie, Physiologie, &c, 1834. p. 577. X Comparative Anatomy, p. 184.