GENERATION. 478 rating, the application of the mother's hand to any part of her own body will cause a dis- figuration or specific impression on a corres- ponding part of the body of the child." § 3. Number of children; and relative proportion of the male and J'emale sexes. The simpler animals are, generally speaking, more fruitful than the complicated ones. As examples of great fecundity, may be mentioned some of the Entozoa and Mollusca, which pro- duce hundreds of thousands of ova ; among Crustacea and Insects some produce many thousand young. The Perch and Cyprinus genus among fishes produce some hundreds of thousands, and the common Cod, it is said, some millions of ova. Most of the Batrachia produce at least some hundreds. But in the warm-blooded Vertebrata, the necessity of in- cubation or utero-gestation puts a limit to the number of young ; and there are also compara- tively few in the Blenny, Skate, Shark, Land Salamander, or such animals as are ovo-vivi- parous. In the humau female, the number of chil- dren altogether produced is limited, first, by the number of Graafian vesicles in the ovaries, which usually amounts to from twelve to fif- teen in each ovary ; and second, by the length of the time during which a woman bears chil- dren, (the greatest extent of which is usually twenty-five years, that is, from the age of fifteen to forty, or twenty to forty-five,) the length of this period again depending upon the rapidity with which the births succeed one another, and the number of children produced at each. Women most frequently bear every twenty months, but some have children at shorter in- tervals, as of fifteen or even twelve months. This often depends upon the circumstance that in some lactation prevents conception; in others it does not. The number of the eggs of birds for one in- cubation varies from two to sixteen. The num- ber of the young of Mammalia produced in one utero-gestation varies from one to fifteen, and occasionally more. Woman usually bears a single child. The proportion of twin-births to those of single children is estimated by Burdach as one to seventy or eighty : the proportion of triplet births one to six or seven thousand ; quadru- plets, one to twenty or fifty thousand. Occa- sionally five children come at one birth, and there are instances on record of six or even seven children being born at once. The causes of this greater or less fecundity are not known : they are in all probability various; being not of an accidental nature, but connected with the constitution of one or other of the parents, most frequently per- haps of the mother. A healthy woman bearing during the whole time, and with the common duration of inter- val, may have in all from twelve to sixteen chil- dren ; but some have as many as eighteen or twenty; and when there are twins, &c. con- siderably more, as in the following remarkable instances. First, eighteen children at six births. Second, forty-four children in all, thirty in the first marriage, and fourteen in the second; and in a still more extraordinary case, fifty-three children in all in one marriage, eighteen times single births, five limes twins, four times tri- plets, once six, and once seven.* Men have been known to beget seventy or eighty children in two or more marriages, but the tendency of polygamy is generally believed to be to diminish rather than to increase the number of the whole progeny. According to Marc, not more than two or three children are born from two thousand pros- titutes in the course of a year,—a circumstance depending in part on their want of liability to conception, and in part on frequent abortion. The proportion of children born in each mar- riage varies much in different countries. The following statement of the average number is taken from Burdach: Germany, 6—8 ; Eng- land, 5—7; France, 4—5; Spain and Italy, 2—3.f In reference to the average proportion of male and female births, it appears from very exten- sive data that in this and most other countries the number of males usually exceeds that of females; in this country in the proportion of four or five in a hundred. The circumstances which influence the pre- ponderance of male births are not known. The accompanying table shews how very constant it is in different countries. Table of the proportional number of males and females born in different countries; the females being taken as 100. Great Britain 104.75 ^ f 106.55 FranCe(103.38 Prussia {ISqo Sweden 104.72 Wurtemburg .. 105.69 Westphalia and Rhine .... 105.86 Bohemia 105.38 Netherlands 106.44 Saxony and Silesia 106.05 Austria 106.10 Sicily 106.18 Brandenburg 106.27 Mecklenburg 107.07 Mailand 107.61 Russia 108.91 Jews in Prussia 112. in Breslau 114. in Leghorn 120. Christians in Leghorn 104. It has been found, on the other hand, that the first children of a marriage consist of a greater number of females and fewer males, in the pro- portion, according to Burdach, of fifty-three male births to a hundred females. A similar preponderance of females is said to exist among illegitimate children; but the difference is ff See Fournier, Diet, des Scien. Med. torn iv. + According to Burdach, one marriage out of fifty is unfruitful; there is one birth on an average for every twenty-five of the population of a place ; and taking the whole population of the world at six hundred and thirty-three millions, about fifty-one children are born every second !