ILIAC ARTERIES. rather to be continuous with the last branch arising from it. A variable number of branches arise from it; these are generally the superior vesical, at times the vaginal or the uterine ; and according to their number and size its size varies; it is not destined to any part, but only gives rise to these branches, being in reality not a branch of the iliac but so much of the vessel, originally the umbilical or placental, as inter- venes between the origin of the great branches and the point at which it becomes impervious, which remains open because of the origin of the vesical arteries, &c. from it, but is thus re- duced in size because of their minuteness. 6. The uterine artery arises either from the anterior division of the iliac, or from the pudic, or at times from the umbilical; it runs forward, inward, and somewhat downward, until it reaches the superior lateral part of the vagina, and entering the broad peritoneal fold of the uterus it ascends in it along the lateral region of the uterus in a very tortuous manner, its tortuosity increasing as it proceeds. As it as- cends, it gives off a considerable number of transverse branches, which attach themselves to both surfaces of the organ, penetrate its substance, and supply it with blood, anasto- mosing, at the same time, freely with those from the other side. When it has reached the attachment of the ligament of the ovary, the artery anastomoses with the spermatic artery. Before the artery attaches itself to the uterus, it gives a considerable branch to the vagina, which descends along it to a greater or less extent and is distributed to both its aspects. Branches also go from it to the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ligament of the ovary, and likewise communicate with branches of the spermatic. The uterine artery in the unimpregnated con- dition of the uterus is a small vessel, little, if at all, larger than the hemorrhoidal or vesical arteries, but during impregnation, and the more so in proportion as that state advances, it un- dergoes a remarkable change, becoming greatly enlarged, so much so as to equal or exceed in size any of the other branches of the internal iliac ; and at the same time assuming a most tortuous arrangement as well in its branches as in its trunk. 7. The vaginal artery arises also, when pre- sent, from the anterior division of the iliac, or from the pudic, the uterine, the umbilical, or hemorrhoidal; it is therefore very irregular and often absent, its place being supplied by branches from others. It runs forward and downward along the side of the vagina, dis- tributing branches to it, and also to the bladder and rectum. At the extremity of the vagina it terminates in the external genital organs, and communicates with the branches of the pudic artery. The external branches of the internal iliac artery are four, viz. 1. The obturator or thyroid arteri/, (artere sous-pubio-femorale, Chauss.) is a vessel of con- siderable size, inferior only to the gluteal, pu- dic, and sciatic branches, and about equal to the epigastric artery, but irregular in that as well as in other respects. It arises most fre- quently from the posterior division of the internal iliac or from the iliac itself imme- diately before its division; it runs forward and somewhat downward along the lateral wall of the pelvis toward the superior posterior part of the subpubic or thyroid foramen, through which it escapes from the pelvis into the supe- rior internal part of the thigh. The course of the vessel may be divided into three parts :— 1st, that within the pelvis ; 2d, that in the sub- pubic canal; 3d, that in the thigh. Within the pelvis the artery is nearly parallel to the brim of the pelvis, or ilio-pectineal line, and from one-half to three-fourths of an inch be- neath it, it holds a similar relation to the exter- nal iliac vessels, which are above the line and from which it is distant from three-fourths of an inch to one and one-fourth. It is accompanied by the obturator vein and nerve, and is placed between them, the nerve being above and the vein beneath it. It is situate within the pelvic fascia; externally it rests against this fascia above the origin of the levator ani muscle, and separated by it from the internal obturator muscle ; internally it corresponds in front to the side of the bladder to an extent proportioned to the degree to which that viscus may be dis- tended, and is connected to it by cellular sub- stance ; posteriorly it corresponds to the peri- toneum of the pelvis, the ureter, and at times to the anterior division of the iliac artery or some of its other branches. In this part of its course it gives off a branch which ascends- to the iliacus and psoas, brandies to the obtura- tor internus, to the lymphatic glands of the pelvis and the bladder; lastly, as it approaches the subpubic foramen it gives an important branch, which ascends posterior to the pubis, distributes small branches as it proceeds, and ends in an anastomosis with a branch, which descends from the epigastric artery. Harrison has occasionally found a considerable branch given off in this situation, which passed to the side of the prostate and the perineum, supply- ing the place of deficient branches of the pudic artery.- In escaping from the pelvis the artery is contained in an oblique canal leading inward and forward. This canal, the subpubic, is bounded superiorly and externally by the pu- bis, which presents on the under surface of its horizontal ramus an oblique channel, by which the roof of the canal is formed ; inferiorly and internally it is bounded by the margins of the obturator muscles and ligament; toward the pelvis it presents a defined aperture circum- scribed above by the pubis and below by the pelvic fascia, the attachment of which to the bone is interrupted at the part at which the artery passes out, and which describing a curve beneath the vessels, between its points of attachment at either side contributes thus to form a rounded aperture through which they escape without perforating the fascia; a thin prolongation of the fascia is detached from it beneath the vessels into the canal. Hernia occasionally protrudes through this canal, and the artery has been found by Cooper behind