220 FACE. extended between tlie lower extremity of t!ie internal pterygoid plate of tlie sphenoid bone and the posterior extremity of the internal ob- lique line of tlie lower. Above, the buccinator arises, 2. from the outer surface of the upper alveolar process, between the first malar tooth and the tuberosity; 3. below from the outer side of the alveolar border opposite the three last malar teeth. From these three origins the fibres proceed forwards, the superior curving a little downwards, the inferior upwards, and the middle passing horizontally towards the angle of the mouth, where they mingle with the fibres of the orbicularis and the elevators and depressors of tlie commissure. The infe- rior and superior fibres become shorter as we trace them forwards, and some of them decus- sate at the angle of the mouth to unite with the opposite labial half of the orbicularis. The fibres of the buccinator are wavy, over- lapping each other, so that they admit of great distention, which is, however, limited by a buccal fascia, which is given off from the pterygo-maxillary ligament. Relations.—The buccinator is deeply situated behind, where it is covered by the ramus of the jaw and the edge of the masseter, from which it is separated by a quantity of fat, which projects beyond the mass, fills up the hollow in front of the masseter, and is always found even in thin subjects. In the middle it corresponds to the buccal vessels and nerves and to tlie transverse facial artery, which runs nearly parallel to its fibres, and to the duct of the parotid gland, which, resting at first upon its fibres, pierces them opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, and opens obliquely into the mouth. A buccal fascia covers the posterior half of the muscle. At the commissure the buccinator is covered by the muscles which are attached to the angle of the mouth, and is crossed at right angles by the external maxillary artery and vein. By its internal surface this muscle covers the mucous membrane of the mouth, from which it is only separated by a layer of buccal glands. Action.—This muscle, being fixed behind, above, and below, acts principally in front on the commissure of the lips, which it draws horizontally backwards, elongating the aperture of the mouth transversely, and throwing the cheek into the vertical folds which are so re- markable in old age. In this respect it is the direct antagonist of the orbicularis oris: if both these muscles act together, the lips are extended and pressed against the teeth. When the cavity of the mouth is distended with air or liquids, this muscle is protruded at the checks, and its fibres become separated and curved. If now the muscle acts, the fibres become straightened, and the fluid is expelled from the mouth either abruptly or gradually according to the resistance of the orbicularis. This action of the orbicularis is exemplified either in spirting fluids from the mouth, or in playing on wind instruments. In mastica- tion the buccinator presses the food from between the cheek and gums into the cavity of the mouth. It assists also in deglutition when the mouth is closed, by pressing the food backwards towards the pharynx. Among the muscles of the face, it is ne- cessary to allude to some parts of the platysma, which are not only seen in this region, but which contribute materially to the motion and expression of the face. The platysma (p, p,p, Jig. 138) is a large, broad, membranous layer of fibres, which extend from the upper and an- terior part of the chest, where they commence in the subcutaneous tissue, upwards over the anterior and lateral part of the neck, to the jaw and lower part of the face, where they are inserted above. The whole superficial surface of the muscle is subcutaneous, but less firmly attached to the integument just under the jaw than elsewhere. The under surface of its cervical portion is in relation with numerous important parts on the face: it covers from before backwards the lower part of the chin, the quadratus menti, the triangularis oris, the base of the lower jaw, tlie facial vessels, and part of the masseter. The arrangement of its facial portion is all that need be described here. Fig. 138. ' \ '^v'vvv As the fibres of the muscle incline upwards towards the median line, they meet below the symphysis of the chin, and some ascend as high as the levator menti. Externally the fibres seem to split to enclose the depressor anguli oris, and to proceed upwards and for- wards with that muscle and the quadratus menti to the lower lip and its angle. The middle fibres are attached to the base of the jaw, and posteriorly they mount over the