273 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. the same part as the greater packet, and poste- rior to it. (See fig. 140). This view of the con- nection of the lesser packet, if confirmed, must lead to interesting results with regard to the rela- tions of the two portions of the fifth nerve at least; it will at all events decide the question as yet in dispute, whether they are to be regarded as distinct nerves, or parts of the same ; upon this point further light will be thrown by the disposition of the same part in fish, in which the source of the uncertainty prevailing with regard to the nerve in the higher classes does not exist to the same amount; inasmuch as the ganglionic and non-ganglionic divisions of the nerve seem for the greater part associated in their distribution. Fig. 141. Back view of pons, bulb, and course of the Fifth Nerve in man, 18 Tubercula quadrigemina. 19 Continuation upward of the tract from which the Fifth Nerve arises. The other referenoes indicate the same parts as in the preceding figure. When the adjoining matter has been care- fully cleared away from the part to which the packets of the nerve are attached, that part ap- pears to be a longitudinal tract of a yellowish- white colour, composed of fibres running in the same direction, and capable of being followed both upward and downward : upward this tract seems continued beneath the superior peduncle of the cerebellum;* downward it descends from * Of the nature of the structure continued up- ward from the attachment of the nerve the author is not satisfied : it presents, when cleared, the ap- pearance given to it in fig. 141,19, but it is very cine- ritious in character, and he is not prepared to say whether it be a continuation of the tract from which the nerve appears to arise, or a part of the floor of the fourth ventricle at its upper extremity, con- nected to the attachment of the nerve : the mode in which the nerve arises in the bird and the turtle appears to the author opposed to the opinion that the tract to which the nerve is attached is, in them at least, any thing more than a continuation or VOL. II. behind the pons into the spinal bulb, and after a short course divides into two cords, one for each column of the spinal marrow (see Jigs. 140, 141). At the entrance of the tract into the bulb it is situate deep, before the floor of the fourth ventricle and behind the superficial attachment of the two portions of the seventh pair, which must be separated from each other and displaced in order that it may be ex- posed : externally the tract corresponds to the peduncles of the cerebellum, and is united in- ternally to the cineritious matter of the floor of the ventricle. At the point of attachment the tract presents a somewhat prominent en- largement, (Jigs. 140, 141, 12,) which the au- thor will venture to call an eminence, though with hesitation, lest it be considered an ex- aggeration, from which the nerve may be held to arise. It is said that the nerve may be held to arise from this tract, because, though it be certainly not its ultimate connection with the brain, and though cords can be traced from it to more remote parts, yet the union of the cords at the point, and the attachment of both portions of the nerve to it, seem to mark it as the origin of the nerve ; the change of character too which will be described as occurring at the attach- ment of the nerve, countenances the opinion that the tract is not simply a continuation of the nerve. It may be doubted whether the eminence really exist, or whether it be not merely the result of dissection : the author will not insist upon it, but several considerations induce him to consider it real: in the first place, he almost uniformly finds it,* and secondly, it seems to be a common point to the two portions of the nerve and to the other cords, which form part of its encephalic connections ; and lastly, this view is corroborated by the disposition of the same part in other animals; for a similar ap- pearance will be found, at the attachment of the nerve behind the pons, in other mammalia as well as in man after the separation of the adjoining matter, e. g. in the horse; and it is even asserted by Desmoulins that an eminence may be observed naturally upon the floor of the fourth ventricle, in some animals, at the attachment of the nerve. His statement is: " on observe meme dans les rongeurs, les taupes, et les herissons, un petit mamelon ou tubercle sur l'extremite ant6rieure du bord du ventricule ; mamelon, clans tequel se conlinuent les fibres posterieures de la cinquieme paire, et de l'acouslique." When the tract has reached the point at which the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum first inclines outward toward the hemisphere, it separates, as has been stated, into two parts or cords, (seeJigs. 140, 141,) destined, one, as is already known, to the posterior, the other, according to the author's belief, to the an- terior column of the spinal cord. The course and disposition of these cords are remarkable and root of the nerve, but admitting this, he cannot satisfy himself that it is to be regarded in the same light in the Mammalia. * The attachment of both the packets must be made out, else the enlargement will not appear. T