INSECTA. 986 jecling and apparently unwieldy structures are rendered exceedingly light, while their solid exterior fits them for all the purposes of strength required by the insect. The large and apparently heavy body of the humble-bee is lightened in a similar manner. In this insect and others of the same order, the vesicles are fewer but very much larger than in Coleoptera. The lateral trachea; in the abdomen form one continuous chain of dilatations, which are larger in the males of the species (fig. 436) Fig. 436. The lateral and inferior series of vesicular respi- ratory organs in the abdomen of a male individual of Bombus terrestris. ( Newport, Phil. Trans.) than in the females. The longitudinal tra- chea (a), that pass backwards from the thoracic region, are connected just as they pass through the petiole or thoracico-abdo- minal segment into the abdomen, by a very short transverse branch (/>), which gives off two pairs of minute branches into the ab- domen. The longitudinal trachea? (c) pur- suing their course onwards are dilated, soon after they enter the large first segment of the abdomen, into two enormously expanded vesicles (_/'), above which is placed transversely a third and much larger one, which is formed from the anastomosing branches of the opposite sides of the segment, and is also connected with the little branches given off from the transverse branch (b). Beneath this large vesicle passes the dorsal vessel, and between the tv. o lateral ones (f) the alimentary canal. Besides the branches from the transverse tracheae (6) there are two others from the large tra- cheae (e), which pass longitudinally backwards, one on each side of the oesophagus. That on the left side (e, e) passes as far as the posterior part of the proventriculus, and then turning forwards distributes its branches to that organ. The other on the right (d, d) extends no farther than the anterior part of the proventriculus, immediately behind the crop or honey-bag, upon which it is chiefly distributed. The large vesicle (,/*) is connected with the dilated trachea? in the succeeding segments, and the whole form one continuous irregularly-shaped vesicular cavity, which, along its under surface in each segment, is dilated into a funnel-shaped transverse trachea (g), that anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, passing beneath the muscles as in the larva. From the upper surface of the longitudinal canals similar fun- nel-shaped dilatations (i, k) pass over the dorsal surface of the abdomen and anastomose in like manner with those of the opposite side, besides which single undilated ramifications of trachea? (/i) pass inwards on each side and are distributed over the alimentary canal. At the posterior part of the body the vesicular canals communicate directly by a large branch (/), from which large trunks are given to the colon and organs of generation. Thus, then, the use of the vesicles is distinctly indicated, even in the peculiar distribution of undilated trachea? to the whole of the organs of nutrition. The distribution of single ramified trachea? from large vesicles appears to be constant in this order; it was formerly shown by Leon Du- four* in Scolia hortorum, and we have always found it in the Ichneumonida and other fami- lies. Burmeister states that he has been un- able to ascertain whether this is also the case in Diptera, in which order the vesicles are both large and numerous. According to Marcel de Serresf the Asilida have an immense number of small elongated vesicles on each side. In one species they amount to so many as sixty. Burmeister remarks]; that, in Lepidoptera, the vesicles in the Sphingida and moths are chiefly found in the males, which agrees with our own observations in Hymenoptera. In Acherontia Atropos he states also that the existence of spiral fibre in the vesicles is so distinct as not to be doubted. This is the structure of the respiratory organs in volant insects, but throughout the class, whether in volant or creeping insects, there is always a complete anastomosis of the trachea? on one side of the body with those on the opposite, as has been well exemplified by almost all insect anatomists, Swammerdam, Lyonet, Marcel de Serres, Dufour, Straus, and others. The development of the vesicles begins to take place at about the period when the larva ceases to feed, preparatory to changing into the pupa state. At the time when the larva of the Sphinx enters the earth, and is forming the cell in which it is to undergo its transformation, the longitudinal trachea? of the second, third, fourth, and fifth segments become a little en- larged. In the butterfly, Vanessa urtica, which does not enter the earth, but suspends * Journal dc Physique, Sept. 1830. t Meraoires des Museum, torn. iv. p. 362. X Op. cit. p. 181.