525 REGIONS OF THE HAND. The annular ligament gives attachment inferiorly on either side to the muscles of the thumb and little ringer, and in the centre to the palmar fascia, a dense fibrous layer binding down the flexor tendons in their passage along the hand. The pulmar fascia is chiefly derived from the expansion of the palmaris longus, which, when present, is its tightening muscle. It is strongest in the palmar hollow, where it is triangular in shape, its apex at the an- nular ligament, and is composed of divergent and longitudinal, interwoven with a few trans- verse fibres; the latter, becoming gradually fewer and more scattered, are lost on the tendons running to the fingers, and some few are at times continuous with the tendinous sheaths of the fingers. Near the roots of the fingers this portion of the palmar fascia divides into four hands, which subdivide each into two tongue-like processes, that embrace the heads of the metacarpal bones, and are attached to the sides of the first phalanges and the inferior transverse metacarpal ligament. At this point of division the transverse fibres are stengthened, and convert these slits into four distinct fibrous arches, through which pass the flexor tendons. Between these arches we find three lesser ones resulting from the primary division of the fascia. They transmit the collateral vessels and nerves, and the lumbricales. This fascia is intimately connected with the preceding layer anteriorly, its deep surface covering the superficial palmar arch, flexor tendons, ulnar and median nerves, from which it is separated by loose and very extensible cellular tissue, which permits the tendons to play freely. This portion of the fascia presents numerous apertures through which the deep fat and cellular tissue commu- nicate with the subcutaneous, and when the parts beneath are swollen they protrude, form- ing small hernia3, which, getting strangulated in these apertures, give rise 10 great pain. It de- taches from either side two processes, a superfi- cial and a deep one. The two deep processes dive deep into the palm, to form the interosseous aponeurosis ; of the superficial ones, the exter- nal, assisted by the tendinous expansion of the extensor ossis metacarpi, envelopes the thenar muscles; the interna) stronger, and assisted by the flexor carpi ulnaris expansion, encloses the hypothenar muscles, and to it is attached the palmans brevis. We next meet with the strong sheaths binding down the flexor tendons in their passage along the fingers. They are continuous above with the palmar fascia, by means of strong detached transverse fibres, which are prolonged over the tendons ,as they pass through the arches of the fascia; laterally they are firmly attached to the ridges on the sides of the phalanges. On the bodies of the two first phalanges these sheaths are very strong and resisting; but opposite the articula- tions they become very thin, and are often wanting; so that the synovial sacs of the ten- dons are in contact with the subcutaneous layer; and it is through these spaces that the inflam- mation in whitlow is propagated to the synovial membrane and joints. At the last joint of the fingers they become weak and thin, and are confounded with the pulp and periosteum. They each enclose a distinct elongated synovial sac, which reaches as far upwards as the fibrous arch of the fascia, but does not communicate with the synovial membranes of the joints, en- tirely enveloping the flexor tendons, lubricating them, and facilitating these motions in the sheaths. At the point where the tendon of the profundus passes through the divisions of the sublimis, there is a falciform process of the synovial sheath of considerable strength, at- taching the tendon of the latter to the first pha- lanx, so that if the fingers be amputated at the second joint, the power of moving the first phalanx will still be retained, though the con- trary has been stated. We may here likewise notice that the gradual contraction of the three last fingers occurring in adults, (crispatura ten- dinum,) formerly thought incurable, as it was supposed to be the result of a drying or con- traction of the tendons, is stated by Baron Dupuytren to be nothing more than a band or strip of the palmar fascia, adhering to the sheath of the tendon, upon the division of which a complete cure may be effected; or it may be caused by a fibrous transformation of the subcutaneous cellular layer, depriving it of its elasticity, and causing it to contract, so that the finger cannot be extended. What favours this opinion is, that this malady generally oc- curs in labourers, boatmen, and those whose avocations necessitate constant flexion of the fingers, at the same time that firm pressure is kept up, especially against the roots of the three inner fingers, as in handling a spade, or grasping an oar. 4. The vessels and nerves are exposed on removing the fascia, being immediately under- neath it. The palmar aspect of the hand being that of flexion, according to the general rule of arterial distribution, the principal trunks are there found; they are the ulnar and radial arteries, and a branch of the interosseous ac- companying the median nerve. The ulnar artery at the wrist lies on the annular ligament, to the radial side of the pisi- form bone, where it is covered by the expan- sions of the flexor carpi ulnaris; it then curves towards the mesial line, and crossing the annu- lar ligament, traverses the palm between the fascia and the flexor tendons, in a curved direc- tion towards the centre of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. In this course it forms an arch, the convexity of which looks downwards and inwards, towards the ring and little fingers, its concavity being turned to the ball of the thumb. It then inosculates with two branches from the radial, the superficialis vola;, and the radialis indicis, forming thus the superficial palmar arch, from the convexity of which pro- ceed four digital arteries which subdivide into the collateral branches at about two lines below the metacarpo-phalangean articulations; they supply the palmar and lateral surfaces of all the fingers except the thumb and the radial side of the index finger. They all run along the sides of the fingers external to the sheaths, to the last phalanx, where those of either side coalesce, forming an arch, from which arise numerous