INSECTA. 887 which live on the pollen of flowers, the eyes are very protuberant. From these circumstan- ces it may be inferred that all those insects in which the eyes are either protuberant or very large are directed by sight alone to some parti- cular object of their search, whether this be the female of the species, as with the glow-worm, &c. or the active living prey, as with the rapa- cious beetles; and consequently in these in- stances a more extended held of vision is re- quired than in those whose object of search is more easily discovered, or whose means of sub- sistence is less precarious. In many Coleop- tera each eye is divided anteriorly by a process of the epicranium, the canthus, as is particu- larly the case in the Lamellicornes (fig. 333). The extent to which this is developed in dif- ferent insects varies considerably, and seems to be greatest in those species which are constantly engaged in burrowing. Thus, while it is ex- tended only a little way into the eye in Ceto- niidff, it is carried half way across it in Copris, and in the female of Lucanus cervus, but less than half in the male; in the genera Atcuchus and Dorcas more than half way across ; while, according to Kirby and Spence,* in another genus, Ryssonatus, it completely divides the eye into two. In other instances the canthus is not produced, but the eye is encroached upon anteriorly by a portion of the epicranium or by the base of the antenna, which sometimes, as in the Cerumbycidce, appears as if inserted into the eye itself. In other families, as in the Gyrinida, the middle of the eye is excavated across its whole surface by a deep furrow, which gives the appearance of two distinct eyes on each side of the head. In some insects the eyes are entirely absent, an instance of which occurs in one of the Xylophagi, Annomalus terricola, recently discovered by M. Robert, near Liege, and an account of which was read before the Royal Academy of Sciences of Brus- sels by M. Wesmael, in Oct. 1835. This in- sect, whose habits are believed to be entirely subterraneous, is without any external organs of vision.f The ocelli, stemmata, or single eyes, are simple, convex, hemispheric lenses, varying in number from one to three. They are always situated, in those insects in which they exist, on the superior part of the epicranium, poste- riorly to the triangular suture. They are en- tirely absent in Hydrous and all Coleoptera except the Dcrmestida, in which there is a single ocellus situated on the centre of the epi- cranium, a little posteriorly to the true eyes; in one of the Paussida, and in some of the smaller Brachelytra ;J but they almost invariably exist in some of the other orders, as in the Iiymen- optera, Neuroptera, &c. The under surface of the head is formed chiefly by the posterior and lateral parts of the gula (fig- 369, n), which unite with the lateral parts of the epicranium and occiput. It is bounded anteriorly by an indistinct suture, and laterally by the inferior portions of the cornea;. In Me- * Introduction to Entomology, vol. iii. p. 602. t Er. Ent. Soc. vol. ii. Proceeding, p, xii. J Entomologist's Text-book, p. 238. lolonthida it is of great extent, and rs the piece busilaire of Straus Durckhelm. In Hy- drous it is excavated in the middle line, on each side of which are two elevated ridges, the remains of the basilar parts of the mandibles (o), the proper appendages of the fifth sub-segment, or basilar portion of the head, with which they have become consolidated. The sub-mentum (in), piece pie-basilaire of Straus, is the most posterior of the parts that form the under faUnus* lip. Straus Durckheim and others appear to have considered this part as a process of the immoveable structure of the head, with which at first it appears to be firmly united. Mr. Westwood remarks, that although it appears to be articulated in some beetles, it is immove- able, and forms part of the under surface of the head.* We have but little doubt that it is a distinct piece, and is part of the third sub-segment of the head, however it may be- come anchytosed to the gula by the obli- teration of the fourth in some instances, or be itself entirely obliterated in others. In Melolontha it is exceedingly short, but of great width. In Hydrous it is very distinct, and the maxilla are articulated to the skull on each side of its base, as is the case also in Melolontha and most other instances. It is a little narrower posteriorly than anteriorly, and its length is not more than one-half its breadth. It is articulated anteriorly with the mentum (I); this is a short transverse plate, in Hydrous somewhat lunated on its anterior margin, rather broader than long, but not so short as the sub- mentum. In Dyticus it is excavated at its anterior margin, the sides being carried forward like separate lobes. In this genus it forms with the sub-mentum, from which it is sepa- rated only by a slight transverse articulation, a broad plate, rounded on its edges, and cover- ing nearly the whole of the under surface of the mouth ; in some of the Staphylinidie it is ex- ceedingly short and broad, in Melolontha it is nearly of a square form, but its anterior mar- gin is acute; in Celonia aurata, on the contrary, its anterior margin is much wider than its pos- terior, or articulation with the sub-mentum. In Amphimalla it is quadrate as in Melolontha, and forms with the palpiger a nearly square plate. Thepa/piger, first described by Mr. New- man^ is not developed in the lip of Hydrous. In those genera in which it is found, as in Dy- ticus, it is an articulation which, as its name implies, bears the labial palpi, and is situated between the mentum and ligula, of which it seems to be only a portion. It is subject to great diversity in size and shape, and in conse- quence is often confounded with the ligula itself. It is said to be very distinct in most of the Ca- rabidd;, and in Cychrus rostratus, as remarked by Mr. Newman, it seems at first to have entirely taken the place of theligula. Inthe Staphylinidte, Goerius, it is much narrower and longer than the mentum, with which it forms as it were a cone. In one of the Endomycliidce, Lycoperdina * Op. cit. 1838, p. 256. t Entomol. Magazine, vol. ii. p. 82 et scq. Also- a Paper on the Nomenclature of the Parts of the Head in Insects, p. 19.