ORGAN OF HEARING. 55C auditory passage to the membrana tympani, between the layers of which it glides and sepa- rates into very delicate filaments, by one or two of which it anastomoses with the chorda tym- pani. The last branch of the superficial tem- poral nerve sends filaments to the auricle and its anterior and superior muscles. The third and most considerable branch of the auricular nerve of the pneumogastric, ramus auricular is nervi vagi, gets into the cana- liculus mastoideus of Arnold, through an open- ing near the lower aperture of the cunalis chorda tympani. It heie divides into two branches, one of which joins, as has been said, the pos- terior auricular branch of the facial nerve; the other, which is stronger, arrives at the posterior wall of the external auditory passage, gives filaments to the ceruminous glands, and in company with a branch of the posterior auricu- lar artery penetrates the cartikige of the ear to ramify on the skin covering its convex surface. Arteries of the external ear and tympanum. The posterior auricular artery. This sup- plies branches which ramify on the convex surface of the auricle, and also turn over the helix to spread out on the other surface. Twigs are also given off to the auditory passage. A remarkable branch of the posterior auri- cular is the stylo-mastoid artery. This enters the stylo-mastoid hole and runs along the aqueduct of Fallopius, and ends by anasto- mosing with a branch of the middle meningeal, called the Vidian artery, which enters by the hiatus of Fallopius. In its course the stylo- mastoid artery transmits twigs to the mastoid cells, the external auditory passage, the mem- brana tympani, the stapedius muscle, and the external semicircular canal. The twig to the membrana tympani is called arteria tympanica superior. This artery, toge- ther with the arteria tympanica inferior from the internal maxillary, supplies the membrana tympani. The arteries run round the circum- ference of the membrane and down along the handle of the malleus, and branching out form by their inosculations a fine net-work. The temporal artery sends branches to the anterior part of the auricle, the external auditory passage, and to the ceruminous glands. It also gives off' a branch which enters the tympanum by the fissure of Glasser, and ramifies in the mucous membrane of the outer wall of that cavity. The occipital artery gives twigs to the auricle. The internal ?naxillary artery.—This artery gives off a branch to the joint of the lower jaw, a twig of which, the arteria tympanica inferior, just mentioned, passes through the fissure of Glasser into the tympanum and inosculates on the membrana tympani with the twigs of the su- perior tympanic artery of the stylo-mastoid. The internal maxillary also sends a branch, the deep auricular artery, arteria auricularis profunda, to the cartilaginous portion of the auditory passage, where it supplies the lining integu- ment and glands. It moreover sometimes gives small branches to the Eustachian tube. The middle meningeal artery in the first part of its course gives branches to the Eustachian tube. In the cranium it sends a branch, arteria Vidiana, into the Fallopian canal, which has been already described as anastomosing with the stylo-mastoid. It also sends branches to the tympanum, which ramify in the mucous membrane of that cavity and in the muscles of the small bones. The accessory middle meningeal artery, when present, gives branches to the Eustachian tube. The inferior pharyngeal artery also gives branches to the Eustachian tube, to the pyramid and cavity of the tympanum. The Eustachian tube also receives twigs from the inferior pala- tine brunch of the facial artery. The internal carotid, before entering the cranium, sometimes gives a small twig to the Eustachian tube and sends another, through a small passage leading from the carotid canal into the tympanum, to the promontory. In some animals, such as the mole, the squirrel, the guinea-pig, the marmot, &c. there is an osseous canal like a bar of bone extending over the vestibular fenestra and running through between the crura of the stapes. This was first observed by Sir Anthony Carlisle in the marmot and guinea-pig, who describes it as " an osseous bolt to rivet it (the stapes) to its situation."* The canal is for the passage of an artery and nerve which in some other animals are unprovided with an osseous canal in their course through the stapes. The artery running through the stapes was observed about ten years ago by Professor Ottof in hybernating animals; but Professor Hyrtl of Prague} has shewn that the artery is by no means peculiar to those animals, as it does not occur in all, and as it occurs in animals which do not hyber- nate. Mr. Shrapnell § describes in the human ear an artery accompanied by a nerve, passing through the membrane which fills up the space between the arms of the stapes. Mr. Shrapnell was led to this observation from what he had seen in the rat, viz. a nerve and artery passing through the stapes and supported by a minute channel of bone. Professor Hyrtl || has more recently described three modes of distribution of the arteries in man, which he has met with, analogous to the artery running through the stapes in the animals above mentioned. The arteries of the external and middle ear are accompanied by corresponding veins. As to lymphatics, there are some small glands behind the auricle and in front of the mastoid process. ' The lymphatic vessels of the external ear accompany the arteries and veins, but prin- cipally the latter. Little or nothing is known of the lymphatics of the tympanum. * On the Physiology of the Stapes in Philosoph. Trans. 1805, p. 204. t Nova Acta Acad. Caes. Leop., torn. xiii. p. 662. % Ueber die Analogien der durch den Steigbiigel verlaufenden Arterie, &c. in Medicinische Jahr- biicher des oesterreichischen Staates, Bd. xix. p. 457, Wien 1836. S On the Nerves of the Ear, in London Medical Gazette, vol. x. p. 507, 1832. || Loc. cit.