791 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. tnent and fibrous capsule had yielded from ulceration, and the muscles had dislocated the head of the femur from the acetabulum on the dorsum ilii; but the shortening was not sudden, as we have known it to have been in such cases, but gradual, nor by a careful ex- amination of the dorsum of the ilium, and searching deeply behind the situation of the great trochanter, could we feel the head of the femur where it should be, were it really dis- located from the cavity of the acetabulum, nor by a forced rotation inwards of the whole limb could the head of the bone be rendered mani- fest. Our strongest reason, however, for con- cluding that the head of the bone is not really luxated on the dorsum ilii is, that although the foot may habitually be directed a little in- wards, still the foot is susceptible of rotation outwards to a greater extent than is compatible with any idea of the head and neck of the femur being thrown, as in the ordinary luxation, on the dorsum ilii. The following case of acute arthritis coxae presents a remarkable example of this affection, in which the course of the disease was rapid, its symptoms obscure, and death occurred sud- denly and unexpectedly. On the 11th of January, 1829, I was requested by my friend Mr. Speedy, then one of my pupils at the Richmond School of Medicine, to assist him at the post-mortem ex- amination of a grenadier, who died with a psoas abscess rather suddenly and unexpect- edly. The man, aged 32, had been only one month complaining of pains about his loins and hip-joint, and was only a few days confined to bed. The body was thin, though not ema- ciated ; in the inguinal region a large fluctua- ting swelling was perceived, which evidently extended into the abdominal cavity, and had assumed the situation and form of a psoas abscess. While cutting into the cavity of the abdomen, pus was noticed to issue from some of the veins which were divided, and particu- larly from the epigastric. When the abdomen was opened, we obseived that the sheath of the psoas muscle was distended as high up as the diaphragm, and on puncturing it a quantity of purulent matter escaped. A second abscess was discovered in the true pelvis, which ex- tended from the back part of the thyroid fora- men to the sacrum, lying outside the bladder and rectum. We next laid fully open the sheath of the psoas muscle, which we observed had not been organized into the usual form of a cyst, and search was made for some point of diseased bone along the spinal column, but none was found here; we then directed our attention to the hip-joint; we found the cap- sular ligament perfect, except where it arises from the transverse ligament of the notch near the thyroid foramen. Here a large per- foration existed in the capsular ligament, through which the finger could be passed on through the thyroid foramen into the interior of the abscess in the true pelvis ; the sac of this last abscess we traced as high as the bifurcation of the aorta and junction of the common iliac veins with the vena cava; here this latter vessel was found firmly adherent to the sac, and on carefully removing both in connection, and slitting up the vena cava posteriorly, we had a view of a perforation in its anterior wall, close to its junction with the iliacs; this perforation was large enough to admit a goose-quill, and established a free communication between the vein and the cavity of the abscess, by which blood and purulent matter had an easy passage from one to the otlier. How long this commu- nication had existed we could not ascertain ; but thus was satisfactorily explained the extra- ordinary phenomenon which had attracted our attention in an earlier stage of the dissection, viz. the issue of pus from some of the veins of the abdominal parietes which were cut across. On prosecuting the examination still further, we found that close to the anterior inferior spine of the ilium and iliopubal eminence, where the united tendons of the psoas and iliacus mus- cles pass over this part of the horizontal ramus of the os innominatum, a vertical perforation of the brim of the acetabulum existed, half an inch deep, of a funnel shape, with its largest part towards the acetabulum, and capable of allowing at its smallest part a large sized bougie Fig. 310. to pass; through this the matter had passed up and elevated the psoas muscle or distended its sheath, which thus presented the ordinary cha- racters of a psoas abscess, but which we learned had appeared suddenly and without having been preceded by the usual premonitory signs. There was no trace of cartilage, Haversian gland, or synovial membrane on the acetabu- lum; the round ligament was gone, and the cartilaginous covering of the head of the femur had been removed, as well as the synovial membrane of the neck of this bone. The ex- posed surfaces of the bones were carious, but the acetabulum had suffered more particularly ; it was deeper, but not wider than usual; its fundus, where formed by the ischium, was thin as paper, but yet no perforation had taken