177 EYE. as speedily recovers its transparency upon the removal of the pressure. The chemical com- position of the cornea is similar to that of the fibrous membranes in general and the sclerotic in particular: like the latter structure, it is con- verted into gelatine by boiling; but Berzelius states that it contains also a small quantity of fibrine or coagulated albumen, as proved by the formation of a precipitate upon adding the cyanuret of ferro-prussiate of potass to acetic acid, in which the membrane has been digested. The cornea possesses great strength, being seldom or never ruptured by blows on the eye- ball, which frequently tear the sclerotic exten- sively. It does not yield to distension from increased secretion, effusion, or suppuration within the eyeball in consequence of inflam- mation, but it becomes extended and altered by growth both in shape and dimensions, as may be observed in prominent staphyloma, lvydrophthalmia, and that peculiar alteration called staphyloma pellucidum, in which the spherical form of the membrane degenerates into a cone, but retains its transparency. The cornea is destitute of red vessels, yet it affords a signal example of colourless and transparent texture possessing vital powers inferior to no other. No structure in the body appears more capable of uniting by the first intention. The wound inflicted in extracting a cataract is often healed in forty-eight hours, yet the lips are bathed internally with the aqueous humour, and externally with the tears. Ulcers fill up and cicatrize upon its surface; and al- though the vessels, under such circumstances, frequently become so much enlarged as to admit red blood, yet there can be no doubt that ulcers do heal without a single red vessel making its appearance. Abscesses form in the cornea, and contain purulent matter of the same appearance as elsewhere; they are gene- rally said to be between the layers of the cornea, but they are evidently distinct cavities circumscribed by the inflammatory process as i. ^her cases; occasionally, however, the whole texture of the cornea becomes infil- trated with purulent matter, as the cellular membrane in erysipelas. The rapidity with which this membrane is destroyed by the ul- cerative process is another proof of its superior vitality. In a few days a mere speck of ulce- ration, the consequence of a pustule, extends through the entire thickness, and permits the iris to protrude; and in gonorrhoeal and infantile purulent ophthalmia, the process is much more rapid and extensive. It is true that in the latter case the destruction is attributed to gan- grene or sloughing, and to a certain extent correctly; but an accurate observer must admit that the two processes co-operate in the pro- duction of the lamentable consequences which result from these diseases. Ulcers of the cornea fill up by granulation and cicatrize as in other parts of the body, but the repaired part does not possess the original organization, and is consequently destitute of that transparency and regularity of surface so essential for its func- tions ; hence the various forms and degrees of VOL. II. opacity enumerated under the technical titles of albugo, leucoma, margarita, nebula, &c. which are probably never remedied, however minute they may be, notwithstanding the ge- neral reliance placed in the various stimulating applications made for this purpose. Slight opacities, or nebula as they are called, if con- fined to the conjunctival covering of the cornea, gradually disappear after the inflammation sub- sides, as does also diffused opacity of the cornea itself, the consequence of scrofulous inflammation; but I believe opacities from ulceration and cicatrix are seldom if ever re- moved. The effect of acute inflammation is to render this, and perhaps all transparent and colourless membranes, white and opaque with- out producing redness; this may be seen in wounds, where the edges speedily become gray; and in the white circle which frequently occupies the margin of the cornea in the in- flammations of the eyeball commonly called iritis. The cornea in a state of health is destitute of sensibility. Of this I have frequently sa- tisfied myself by actual experiment in cases of injury of the eye, where the texture of the part is exposed. When foreign bodies, such as specks of steel or other metals, are lodged in its structure, the surgeon experiences much dif- ficulty in his attempts to remove them, from the extremely painful sensibility of the con- junctiva as he touches it with his needle ; but the moment he strikes the point of the instru- ment beneath the foreign body into the cornea itself, the eye becomes steady, and he may touch, scrape, or cut any part of the membrane uncovered by conjunctiva without complaint. It has already been stated that the cornea, as it constitutes the transparent medium for the passage of the rays of light, is composed of three distinct forms of structure altogether dif- ferent from each other, the conjunctiva, the cornea proper, and the elastic cornea. The latter membrane is now to be described. In many of our books this membrane is vaguely alluded to as the membrane of the aqueous humour ; but with this it must not for a mo- ment be confounded. It is a distinct provision for a specific purpose, totally different from that for which the other is provided. It was known to and described by Duddell, Decemet, Demours, and latterly by Mr. Sawrey ; but all these authors having unfortunately published their accounts in separate and probably small treatises, not preserved in any journal, I have not been able to consult them. It is, however, distinctly recognized by Clemens, D. W. Sommerring, Blainville, and Hegar; and in a paper on the anatomy of the eye in the Me- dico-Chirurgical Transactions, I endeavoured to direct attention to it without effect. The struc- ture here alluded to is a firm, elastic, exqui- sitely transparent membrane, exactly applied to the inner surface of the cornea proper, and se- parating it from the aqueous humour. When the eye has been macerated for a week or ten days in water, by which the cornea proper is rendered completely opaque, this membrane re- N