ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HAND. 518 the living. When we have opportunities of examining, in the dead subject, a hand in wnich tins contraction of the palmar aponeurosis has existed, and have raised the skin in all its ex- tent from the palm of the hand and palmar sur- face of the fingers, its folds and ruga; all dis- appear, and it then becomes evident that this defect does not reside in the skin. When the aponeurosis is exposed, it is found contracted, thickened, and diminished in length. From its inferior part, the tense fibrous chords which were already supposed to exist are now exposed, and seen to be inserted into the periosteum on the lateral aspects of the contracted finger. Dupuytren, by various anatomical and pa- thological investigations of this disease, satisfied himself that this peculiar contraction of the fingers depends essentially on this shortening, thickening, and organic alteration of the palmar aponeurosis and the digitations proceeding from it to the sidesof the fingers; for he invariably found when he had opportunities of investigating this disease in the dead subject, that the tendons were of their accustomed volume and mobility. He cut them across, and then made efforts in vain to extend the finger. The bones were found of their natural form, and no alteration was perceptible in either the synovial mem- branes or lateral ligaments; but as soon as the section of the expansions of the fascia which go to the fingers was effected, the flexion dis- appeared, and the finger could be brought to its normal position. Finally, he infers, and indeed, as far as a few instances go, he proves, that a similar result will follow the division of the fascia in the living subject, and that the proper use and adjustment of a peculiar splint on the back of the forearm and hand, so as to keep the affected fingers for a time extended, will complete the cure of this disease. Sir A. Cooper alludes to these deformities when he says, " The fingers are sometimes con- tracted by a chronic inflammation of the theca and aponeurosis of the palm of the hand, from excessive action of the hand in the use of the hammer, the oar, ploughing, &c," evidently recognising two species, in one of which the aponeurosis is the cause of the contraction, and the contracted hand is narrow. " And this hand," he adds, " may with advantage be di- vided by a pointed bistoury, introduced through a small wound in the integuments; the finger may be then extended, and a splint applied to preserve it in the straight position." But he observes that " where the theca is contracted, nothing should be attempted for the patient's relief, as no operation or other means have suc- ceeded." Anchylosis of some of the joints of the phalanges sometimes succeeds to an attack of acute or chronic inflammation of one or more of these small articulations; this may have arisen from disease; for example, paronychia or accident; but from whatever cause the inflam- mation has arisen, anchylosis of a finger in the extended position, which cannot be contracted, or of a joint in the flexed position, which can- not be extended, is the too frequent result. The history of the case, and the actual state of the anchylosed joint, which cannot be overlooked, will prevent the surgeon from falling into any eiror in his diagnosis. A contracted state of the ring finger and little finger is frequently to be noticed in those who have suffered much from gout; but we are acquainted with no dis- ease which more frequently produces deformity of the hand and fingers than chronic rheumu- tism (chronic rheumatic arthritis). This mor- bid condition of the joints of the hand is too cursorily alluded to by authors under the head of rheumatic gout, nodosity of the joints of the fingers, &c. &c. It is a complaint which is erro- neously supposed to be met with only in elderly persons. We have, however, in the pauper de- partment of the House of Industry in Dublin, examples of it in females under the age of 30; but of course it is more frequently observed in the aged and rheumatic patient. When the disease has existed long, the whole hand be- comes greatly deformed, and the distortion the fingers have undergone in these cases is of it- self calculated to impress us with a correct idea of the sufferings the victims of this disease have endured. The carpus is usually preter- naturally convex on its dorsal aspect, owing to the thickening and distension of the synovial bursa?, which become like solid ganglions. All the joints of the hand and fingers become en- larged, particularly those which are formed by the junction of the first phalanges and metacar- pal bones; at these joints the fingers are more or less flexed towards the palm, and are, at the same time, adducted or drawn to the ulnar side of the hand. The head of the metacarpal bone, where it joins with the first phalanx of the index finger, seems particularly swelled and enlarged, and projects much towards the radial side and dor- sal aspect of the hand, as is represented in^g. 231. Fig. 231. Chronic rheumatism, or nodosity of the joints. The last phalanx of a finger is frequently flexed, while the middle phalanx is extended. Whatever be the faulty position which the fin- gers happen to have assumed, they are usually found to be remarkably rigid. All movements