EYE. 172 sphere, and at a short distance behind the trans- parent convex portion or cornea, is fixed a double convex lens, called the crystalline lens or crystalline humour; and between this cor- nea and crystalline lens is interposed a parti- tion or screen called the iris, with a circular aperture in its centre called the pupil. The inner surface of this hollow sphere, as well as the back, of the iris or screen, are covered or stained with a black material. The space be- tween the cornea and crystalline lens, in which the iris is placed, is filled with a transparent fluid, called the aqueous humour, and the space between the crystalline lens and the bot- tom of the sphere is filled with a similar fluid, called the vitreous humour. The annexed figure represents a section of this simple piece of opti- cal mechanism, much larger than natural to render the parts more distinct. Fig. 100. An acquaintance with the laws which regu- late the transmission of the rays of light through transparent bodies, and with the manner in which the lenticular form changes the direction of these rays,:teaches;" ttyat a correct image of ex- ternal objects is form^d-in-the bottom of the eye in consequence of the^above adjustment of its parts. First, the rays of 'light acquire a con- vergence in their passage through the cornea and aqueous humour, then the central portion of the pencil of rays is transmitted through the pupil, and, finally, the rays in their passage through the crystalline lens acquire such addi- tional convergence, that they are brought to a focus on the bottom as represented in the an- nexed diagram. Such are the essential component parts of the eye, considered as a piece of optical me- chanism, but viewed as a piece of anatomical mechanism, its construction is much more com- plicated, and the materials of which it is com- posed are necessarily totally different from those of any human contrivance of a similar nature. It lives in common with the body of which it forms a part, it grows and is repaired; conse- quently, the animal organisation destined for such functions must constitute an essential part of its construction. The organ derives its permanent spherical form, its external strength, and the support of the delicate parts within it, from a strong opaque membrane called the sclerotic coat; while the convex portion, called cornea, in front, equally strong, being transparent, allows the rays of light to pass without interruption. The interior of the portion of the sphere formed by the sclerotic coat is lined throughout by a soft membrane called the choroid, necessarily con- stituting another hollow sphere, accurately adapted and adhering to the inside of the for- mer. This also has its circular aperture ante- riorly, into which is fitted the screen called iris, as the cornea is fitted into the aperture in the sclerotic. While the external surface of this choroid coat is comparatively rough and coarse in its organization, as it adheres to the equally coarse surface of the sclerotic, the interior is exquisitely smooth and soft, being destined to embrace the retina, another spherically dis- posed membrane of extreme delicacy. The screen called iris, which is fitted into the cir- cular aperture anteriorly, is as different from the choroid coat in its organization as the cor- nea is from the sclerotic: it is perfectly plane, and therefore forms with the concave surface of the cornea a cavity of the shape of a plano- convex lens, called the anterior chamber. In or on the choroid coat the principal vessels and nerves, destined to supply the interior of the organ, are distributed, and in its texture and upon its inner surface is deposited the black material, which in this part of the chamber, as well as on the back of the iris, is so essential a provision. At the anterior margin the choroid is more firmly united to the corresponding mar- gin of the sclerotic by a circular band of pecu- liar structure called the ciliary ligament, and on its inner surface, in the same place, it is fur- Fig. 101.