648 ANIMAL HEAT. ferior animals, Mammalia, as well as birds, reptiles, and fishes.* States of the blood in the heart after death.— "What appears to be the natural state of the contents of the heart after death is as follows. The right auricle contains a coagulum of dark fclood, and the right ventricle contains a similar one, of less size; a very small quantity of coa- gulum or of fluid blood is found in the left cavities, and it is not uncommon to find a coa- gulum extending into the aorta ; white coagula are often found in these cavities. Sometimes these coagula, especially at the right side, adhere closely to the wall of the cavity in which ihey are situated, and appear as it were moulded upon it, sinking into the interstices between the fleshy columns, so as to render it difficult to remove them. The modification which we most frequently meet with in this state of the heart's contents, is that in cases of asphyxia; affording, however, merely an in- stance of aggravation, if I may so speak, of the natural state; the right cavities and the vessels leading to and from them are gorged with dark blood, liquid or coagulated, while the left cavi- ties are nearly empty. Such states of the heart's cavities, it is obvious, are formed in articulo mortis. Fibrinous masses, either mixed with or deprived of the colouring matter of the blood, have been many times found, which it cannot be doubted were formed in the heart some time prior to death, and probably gave rise to symptoms of a serious nature; these are the true polypous concretions of the heart. The manner in which Mr. Allan Burns, one of our earliest British writers on the heart, explains the formation of some of these concretions, is deserving of attention. " If," he says, " we strictly scrutinize all the reputed cases of poly- pus in the heart, we shall reduce the real ex- amples of this affection to a very limited num- ber indeed. Still we shall leave a few, where there is reason to believe that the concretion had been formed a very considerable time be- fore death : but it must be understood, that these concretions are seldom found except in hearts otherwise diseased. In health, the blood does not tarry for any length of time in either the heart or vessels; it is incessantly in motion, circulating with greater or less rapidity, accord- ing to the state of the heart and arteries. The blood never in health remains so long in con- tact with the surfaces of the heart, as to allow of its being changed by their action. In some diseases of this organ, irregular actions are ex- cited by very trifling causes ; the blood stag- nates longer in the heart than it usually does or ought to do, while here it undergoes changes by the reciprocal action of the blood on the heart and the heart on the blood; new organized matter is deposited, and adheres to the parietes of the cavity in which it is lodged. This con- cretion slowly increases, the first panicle acting as the exciting cause for the deposition of the second, and so on." The strongest evidence of the formation of * For a list of the references to such cases, see South's edit, of Otto, Path. Anat. p. 293. such coagula some time before death consists in their being organised : in a case recorded by the writer from whom the preceding passage was quoted, a large and fully organised polypus was found in the right auricle; its attachment was by a rough surface to the musculi pectinati, and its body hung down into the right ventricle. It very much resembled a nasal polypus, and it was so firmly fixed to the heart, that it allow- ed the whole mass of the heart and a consider- able portion of the lungs to be suspended by it, without showing any tendency to separate. It was pendulous and tapered from below up- ward ; its structure was dense and lamellated, and not a single red globule entered into its composition." In this casp, as in other similar ones quoted by Andral, the adhesion of the po- lypus seemed due to an inflammation of the endocardium, either excited by the contact, or before the formation of the coagulum. That such coagula may be permeated by bloodves- sels is proved by the cases of Bouillaud and Rigacci, quoted by Andral: in the latter cases, these reddish filaments passed from thecolumna: carrteae and entered the substance of the poly- pous mass : they had all the appearance of bloodvessels, and when injected with mercury were found to divide into a number of small branches that ramified through the substance of the polypus. By careful dissection it was as- certained that the tumour was formed altogether of a mass of fibrine, such as is found in the sac of arterial aneurisms Pus is occasionally found in the centre of these fibrinous concretions, but whether carried to the heart in the blood, and accidentally enclosed in the coagulum during its solidification, or formed in the coagulum by some action within it, it is impossible to decide. Osseous and cartilaginous deposits toohave been found in them, as in the case from Burns, in which one of these polypi was ossified in several points, and so perfectly organized that on inflat- ing the coronary vein, a number of minute ves- sels on the surface and in the substance of the tumour became distended with air. (R. B. Todd.) HEAT, ANIMAL.—Judging merely by our sensations, we should infallibly conclude that our bodies undergo very considerable changes of temperature. This belief was in- deed necessarily entertained previously to the time when natural philosophy had discovered a means of ascertaining the true state of the matter. The application of the thermometer has dissipated the error. But then error of an opposite kind was run into, and the results of a very limited number of observations led men to conclude that the temperature of the human body was invariable or nearly so. Still the measures of temperature given by different ob- servers did not perfectly accord, though each presented his conclusions as the temperature of the race. It was but reasonable to imagine that these discrepancies arose not from any want of accuracy in observation, but from diversities inherent in the subjects observed. This is now known to be the case. But though proofs of this truth have been greatly multiplied, the