HERMAPHRODITISM. 694 point a hard mass could be felt, probably con- sisting of the prostate gland; and more up- wards and outwards, nearly in the natural situation of the bulb, was seen the split urethra (c) with a row of three considerably sized open- ings (./,'/)> which, under pressure and irritation of the genital parts, gave out several drops of a transparent mucous fluid. Otto considers these openings as the extremities of the ducts of the prostate and Cowper's glands, and of the semi- nal canals. The right half of the scrotum con- tained a small testicle about the size of that of a boy of ten years of age ; the left testicle lay like- wise external to the abdominal ring, and was still softer and smaller than the right. Both were furnished with spermatic cords. The ge- neral configuration of the individual was strong, muscular, and meagre ; the beard was thin and soft, and the face, maram;e, thorax, pelvis, and extremities were evidently masculine. Along with the preceding instances we are inclined to classify the case of Maria Nonzia, as detailed by Julien and Soules.* This indi- vidual was born in Corsica in 1695, was twice married as a female, and at last divorced in 1739 by her second husband, after having lived sixteen years in wedlock. The penis was two inches in length, but imperforate, and the mea- tus urinarius was placed at its root. Two bodies, like ordinary sized testicles, and fur- nished with spermatic cords, were felt in the divided scrotum ; and there was a narrow false vagina or perineal canal one inch and three Jines in depth, and crossed at its upper extre- mity by two small traversing membraneous bridles. The character and appearance of the person were masculine; the visage was beard- ed ; the mammae were as fully developed as in the adult woman, but the nipples were each surrounded with hair. So far as the preceding details go, they seem amply sufficient to justify us in considering Maria Nonzia as a malformed male; and we are still inclined to take this view of the case, notwithstanding the statement inserted in the report of Julien and Soules, that the menses were present as in other women. For not to insist upon the circumstance that the reporters do not shew that they made any minute or satisfactory inquiry into this alleged fact, and not improbably took it upon the mere word of the subject of the case, who was necessarily greatly interested in maintaining the reputed female character, it would be requisite, in any such paradoxical instance, to ascertain if the discharge actually agreed in character with the menstrual fluid, or was not pure blood, the re- sult of an haemorrhage from the genito-urinary passages, or from the rectum, where, as in other parts of the body, this form of disease frequently assumes a periodical type. We would be in- clined to apply even still more strongly these remarks to the celebrated case of Hannah Wild, detailed by Dr. Sampson.-)- This person had * Observ. sur l'Hist. Nat. sur la Physique et sur la Peinture, torn. i. p. 18, with a plate. t Ephem. Nat. Curios. Dec. i. an. iii. p. 323. evidently the male genital organs malformed in the manner mentioned with regard to the other cases included under the present section, and possessed all the secondary sexual peculiarities of the male; so that we can only receive with great doubt and distrust the alleged existence of the menstrual discharge, and the more so, as this is evidently stated on the report of the subject of the case alone, who, deriving a pre- carious subsistence from the exhibition of his malformations, had a deep interest in amplify- ing every circumstance that could enhance the public curiosity with respect to the reality of his hermaphroditic character. At the same lime, however, it must be re- marked that in some instances of spurious her- maphroditism, it is found extremely difficult or even impossible during life to determine with precision the true or predominant sex of the malformed individual; and in regard to several well-known cases on record, we find on this point the most discrepant opinions offered by different authors. Thus while Morand,* Ar- naud,f and DeliusJ described Michel-Anne Drouart as a male; Guyot,§ Ferrein,|| and Caldanif maintained that this person was a female; and Mertrud** regarded the individual as an example of a real hermaphrodite. A useful lesson of caution to us against our forming too decided and dogmatic an opinion in cases in which the sexual conformation ap- pears in any marked degree doubtful, has lately been offered in the instance of Maria- Dorothee Duriee, or, as this individual was named in the latter years of 'his life, Charles Durge. While Metzgerff considered this per- son as a specimen of that kind of equivocal sexual formation to which the designation of her- maphroditism is truly applicable, Hufeland,IJ Mursinna,§§ Gall, Brookes,|||| and othersllH declared the sex of Duriee to be in reality female; and Stark,*** Mertens,fft and the Members of the Faculty of Medicine at Paris J J J were equally positive in regarding the indivi- dual as merely a malformed male. The dis- section of the body of Duriee by Professor Mayer has, as we shall afterwards state more in detail, shewn the sexual conformation of this individual to consist of a true mixture of both the male and female organs. * Mem. de l'Acad. des Sc. 1750, p. 165. t Dissert, sur les Hermaphr. p. 298. J Frank, Sammlung. Th. viii. s. 398. I Mem. de l'Acad. des Sc. 1756, p. 71. II lb. 1767, p. 205. «j[ Mem. della Societa Italiaua, t. vii. p. 130. ** Arnaud, loc. cit. p. 293. tt Gericht.-medic. Abhandlungen. Bd. i. s. 177. Journ. der Praktischen Heilkunde, Bd. xii. s. 170. &§ Journ. fur die Chirurgie, Arzneikunde, &c. Bd. i. s. 555. Illl Medical Gazette for October, 1836. ^f^f Von dem Neuangekommen. Hermaphrod. Berl. 1801. *** Neuen Archiv. fur die Geburtshiilfe. Bd. ii. s. 538. fttBeschreibungder mannlichen Geschleehtslheile von M. D. Durrier. Leipzig, 1802, with two plates, ttt Med. Gaz. for October, 1836.