922 INSECTA. of the organs of generation, are retractile within the abdomen. The sixth segment is concealed, and the seventh and eighth segments, particu- larly the latter, which is greatly enlarged, form the chief portion of the abdomen. In the common honey-bee there appear at first to be but five segments ; but one segment, the sixth, which forms the base of the abdomen, is almost concealed, and the others constitute the sting and retractile organs of generation. In the male or drone two segments are lost in the termination of the male organs of generation. Thus, then, the actual number of the segments is the same in all Hymenoptera, the apparent difference being occasioned by the retraction of one or more segments within those which pre- cede them. To so great an extent is this car- ried in some species, as in the Clirysididce, that the abdomen at first sight appears to be formed of only four segments, the margin of the posterior being armed with several spines. But even in this family the number of segments is exactly the same as in the Ichneumon above noticed, in which all the segments are apparent. The five last segments are retractile within the abdomen, and when extended form a long jointed tube, which is employed by the insect for the purposes of oviposition. Thus then the ovipositor of the Tubulifera, the sheath of the sting in the Aculeata, and that of the terebra or borer in the Terebrantia, are all derived from the terminal segments of the body. But we have already seen that in the hymenopterous larva there is an additional segment to the body, which from the existence of an appa- rently additional organ in the perfect insect, may reasonably be supposed to be especially connected with the developement of that part. On examination, however, it is discovered that it is not from the fourteenth or terminal seg- ment that the ovipositor, or sting, is entirely derived, but from at least the two last segments, the sheath being developed from elongated portions of the thirteenth or penultimate seg- ment, while the fourteenth forms only a short valve at its base, like the extremity of the abdomen in Sirex. From these circumstances it is evident that the defensive organs of the aculeate Hymenoptera are simply developments of certain parts only of the sides of the abdominal segments, while the tubulated joints of the ovi- positor of the Clirysididce, with which there are many analogies among the Lepidoptera, are the entire segments. It is evident also that al- though the fourteenth segment is certainly con- nected with the sting or borer, it does not become its chief part, the sheath of the organ being always formed by parts of the thirteenth and sometimes also of the twelfth segment, so that these organs are simply developements of parts which already exist in all insects. The analogues of the ovipositor are found in the PanorpidtE among the Neuroptera, and in the Boy/tbycidiB among the Lepidopteia; while those of the other forms of the same part, the terebra and sting, exist in the exserted oviposi- tors of the female Gryllidie in the Orthoptera, and in the prehensile ones of some of the Arcliida. and other species, in almost every instance the parts being derived from similar segments. In Lepidoptera the size of the three segments of the thorax is more unequal than in Hymen- optera. The prothorax is reduced to a very thin plate or ring, more especially on its upper sur- face or pronotum. On the prosternal surface the primary parts, although greatly reduced fn size, are still distinguishable. The prosternum is a small square piece, which is articulated in front by suture with a part of the anterior of the basal joint of the first pair of legs, and which we are inclined to regard as the tro- chantinus (Jig- 392, 2 k). Immediately above this is a short semicircular piece, which is perhaps the analogue of the epimeron, and which is united by suture to a large broad lunated piece, that forms the greater part of the lateral surface of the prothorax, and is con- tinuous with the narrow ring on the upper sur- face (Jigs. 391,392,2). The meso-notum is enor- mously developed. The prcEscutum (Jig. 391) Fig. 391. Dorsal surface of Sphinx liyustri. is hidden within the segment and forms the pro- phragma, the anterior boundary of the segment. Laterally it is extended on each side beneath the scutum as far as the anterior boundary of the wings, where it is developed on each side