971 INSECTA. the common cavity of the oesophagus, although not separated from it by a valve, neither is the oesophagus separated by a valvular structure from the gizzard. The chylific stomach is ex- ceedingly long and cylindrical, but is without gastric coeca, like the larva of Car-abidee, since like that, the Punorpa appears to subsist rather by sucking the juices than by swallowing the hard parts of the body of its victims. Thus, then, although in the Cicindelida'(fig. 37, vol. 1), the canal is scarcely longer than the body, as formerly shewn by Dufour, and since fre- quently instanced as proving that the length or shortness of the canal is characteristic of a car- nivorous or phytophagous feeder, we cannot admit that the length of the digestive organs, and the existence of a gizzard and gastric ves- sels, are indicatory of predacity of habits in the insect, because a similar conformation of parts exists often in strictly vegetable feeders. The existence and length of these parts seem rather to refer to the comparative digestibility of the food than to its animal or vegetable nature. Among the more omnivorous feeders, as in the Forficulida, the gizzard is still present. In Forjicula auriculuria the oesophagus is long and dilated, and a short, broad, and very muscular gizzard is present. Internally it is thrown into six longitudinal folds, which pro- ject for some distance at their extremity into the cavity of the digestive stomach, to the en- trance of which, when closed, they serve as a valve. The canal of this insect, which, although in part carnivorous in its habits, certainly is not of the most rapacious nature, but lives equally upon the juices of fruits and flowers, is scarcely longer than that of the most predaceous Cieindela or Dyticus, since it passes almost in a direct line through the body, making but one slight convolution, a further proof that the length of the canal must not be taken as a cri- terion whereby to judge of the habits of a species. This will apply equally to the om- nivorous Gryllidee, in which there exists a short alimentary canal, but a gizzard of more com- plicated structure than that of Di/ticida. In these insects the two layers of the mucous coat are visible even in the oesophagus. The second layer is distinctly glandular and secre- tory, and in it there are many thousands of very minute granulary glandular bodies, which probably secrete the fluid that is often ejected from the mouth of the insect when captured. The inner layer, or proper mucous lining, is often folded longitudinally, and in Acrida viridissima these folds, which are six in number, assist to form a valve between the oesophagus and gizzard. They are each armed with five very minute hooked teeth, and continued into the gizzard develope many more in their course through that organ. These first teeth are ar- ranged around the entrance to the gizzard, and seem designed to retain the insufficiently com- minuted food and pass it on to that organ. Next to these in succession on each of the lon- gitudinal ridges are four flat, broad, and some- what quadrate teeth, each of which is very finely denticulated along its free margin. These extend about half-way through the gizzard. They appear to be alternately elevated and de- pressed during the action of the gizzard, and to serve to carry on the food to the twelve cutting teeth with which each ridge is also armed, and which occupy the posterior part of the organ. These teeth are triangular, sharp-pointed, and directed posteriorly, and gradually decrease in size in succession from before backwards. Each tooth is very strong, sharp-pointed, and of the colour and consistence of tortoise-shell, and is armed on each side by a smaller pointed tooth. These form the six longitudinal ridges of the gizzard, between each two of which there are two other rows of very minute teeth of a tri- angular form, somewhat resembling the larger ones in structure occupying the channels be- tween the ridges. The muscular portion of the gizzard is equally interesting. It is not merely formed of transverse and longitudinal fibres, but sends from its inner surface into the cavity of each of the large teeth other minute but powerful muscles, a pair of which are inserted into each tooth. The number of teeth in the gizzard amounts to two hundred and seventy, which is the same number in these Gryllidee as found formerly by Dr. Kidd* in the mole- cricket. Of the different kinds of teeth there areas follows: seventy-two large treble teeth, twenty-four flat quadrate teeth; thirty small single-hooked teeth, and twelve rows of small triangular teeth, each row being formed of twelve teeth. This is the complicated gizzard of the higher Orthoptera. In the same insect immediately posterior to the gizzard the chylific stomach is expanded on each side into two large rounded coeca, into the upper part of which some minute vessels are traced which in appear- ance resemble the hepatic vessels. Posteriorly to these ccsca the stomach becomes narrowed and makes one convolution, and receives around its termination the hepatic vessels, which are small but very numerous. It then is continued backwards as a long ilium, and terminates in a muscular banded colon without a distinct rectum. The whole length of this alimentary canal does not exceed more than about one length and a half of that of the body. A simi- lar structure exists in the Blattida. In these insects eight large vessels are inserted around the commencement of the stomach behind the gizzard. Four of these are long and four short, and as observed by Burmeister, these have been thought to be analogous to pancreatic or gastral salivary organs. In the proper Locustidte there is only a rudimentary gizzard, as Bur- meister has shown in Locusta migratoriu, in which the interior lining of the whole oeso- phagus and crop is covered by an immense number of very minute horny teeth, for the purpose of comminuting the hard ligneous matter which we have sometimes found in foreign specimens. The rudiments of the gizzard exist in six flat pieces, studded with minute teeth like the lining of the oesophagus. The commencement of the stomach is sur- rounded by two sets of coecal appendages, six in each set, and similar in form to those of the second set in the larva of Melolontha, like which those on the under surface are the J Phil. Trans. 1826.