952 INSECTA. centrated structure, although the cords still remain more distinct from each other than in the higher forms of Coleoptera. In the Achetida, of which the Mole-cricket affords us an exam- ple, as combining amazing strength and activity with apparently highly developed instinct, there is a more complete general form of the nervous system than in the Acrida. The ganglia of the thorax are particularly large, but the ganglia of the pro-thoracic segment, in which, and in the enormous limbs, nearly the whole strength of the insect, as we have before seen, is con- centrated, does not equal in size the meta- thoracic ganglion, winch is nearly one-third larger than either of the others, although the wings unto which it is given, as well as to the legs, are only of secondary importance as organs of locomotion, and although a fifth and much smaller ganglion is also attached to the meta-thoracic. The cord of the thorax is also large in proportion to the size of the ganglia. In the abdomen the relative size of the cord is less than in the Acrida, and there are only three small oval ganglia in it besides the large terminal one, so that the cord is extended scarcely halt way through the abdomen, and yet the whole of the segments, and more especially the posterior ones, are capable of the most free and extensive motion. Thus, then, although in these and other forms of insects, particularly in the Hymenoptera, Lepi- doptera, and Diptera, the ganglia are usually aggregated together in certain segments, appa- rently as a means of concentrating the energies of the animal when one particular region of its body is more actively employed than another, the presence of ganglia in the different segments is not more indispensable to the mobility than to the sensibility of these parts to external im- pressions, since the nerves that convey both motion and sensation to them may be derived from ganglia in distant segments, and yet the freedom of motion be not less than when each segment contains its own ganglion, and derives its nerves immediately from it. The structure of the cords in the perfect insect is almost as distinct as in the larva, although the whole of the parts have become more opaque and closely connected together. In some instances it is more strongly marked than in others after the cord has remained for some time in spirits of wine, which is necessary before an examination of its structure is attempted. In many of the Coleoptera the motor column is seen passing in almost a direct line over the ganglia of the sensitive, but the transverse nerves are less easily detected, and in many instances. appear to have become united with the other structures. We have, however, seen what we regard as such in the GryllidtB, and more distinctly in Gryllotalpa, lying upon and above the motor column. In some specimens we have not found them from their being easily detached in those insects, and, probably, removed during dissection. But in these families we have always found the motor column strongly marked, particularly while passing over the ganglia of the thorax. In the Curubida (Jig. 411) the course of the motor column (6) is distinctly indicated as it passes over the surface of a ganglion (a) by a Fig. 411. A portion of the ganyliated abdominal cord of Carabus monilis. a, a ganglion of the external or sensitive column ; b, the upper or motor column; c, a ganglion of the transverse nerves. longitudinal sulcus. Just as it is entering upon and also as it is leaving the surface of the ganglion, the motor column gives off a minute branch to join with the large branch from the ganglion of the sensitive column, and with it form a compound nerve. At a part of the cord corresponding to the anterior margin of each ganglion, lying upon and attached to the motor column on each side, is a minute gangli- form mass (c), which we regard as the analogue of the plexus of the transverse nerves. It is of an obtusely angulated shape, and is attached to the motor column by a minute filament from its base on either side, and which passes out- wards in the direction of the anterior pair of nerves. From its upper part in the median line extends another filament, the course of which we have not been able to follow. In Lucanus cervus the motor column is slightly elevated while passing over the ganglia, and at the anterior margin of each gives off a filament to join with the nerve from that part of the cord. We have sometimes observed attached to the motor column, just as it had passed over the meta-thoracic ganglion, on each side a little gangliform mass, which may possibly be part of a series of nerves like those on the cord in the Carabus. In the aculeate Hymenoptera, in which the ganglia of the thorax are large, the motor column is readily observed, but in some of the Terebrantia, as in the Turnip-fly, Athalia centifolicc, when the cord is examined by a strong light, the motor column is most distinctly seen both on the ganglia of the thorax and abdomen, and in this insect exhibits an appear- ance which we have not observed in any other. This is a slight increase in the diameter of the column when it has passed about half-way over a ganglion, and a decrease to its original size when leaving it. Two filaments appear to be given off from the column to join the nerve from the ganglion, one as usual at the anterior margin of the ganglion, and the other, which appears to be the analogue of the transverse nerves, united to the motor column when about half-way over the ganglion. This en- largement of the motor column is greatest where it is passing over the thoracic ganglion, but is best seen on the abdominal ones. This fact has appeared particularly interesting