169 EXTREMITY. where the crucial ligaments are attached. Anterior and posterior to this spine are two rough depressions, the posterior more hollowed than the anterior: into the former the posterior crucial ligament is inserted, and the latter re- ceives the anterior crucial ligament. The circumference of the head is rough and perforated by a vast number of minute vas- cular foramina. Each condyle projects late- rally beyond the plane of the corresponding surface of the shaft, the internal to a greater extent than the external. These lateral pro- jections are distinguished by the name of Tu- berosities. The internal tuberosity gives in- sertion at its lower part to the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint; posteriorly this tuberosity is grooved, and one of the tendons of the semi-membranosus is inserted into the groove, and separates the internal lateral ligament from the bone in this situation. At the pos- terior part of the external tuberosity there is a small articular facet, nearly circular and plane, with which the fibula is articulated. In front of the head of the tibia there is a rough triangular surface, the apex of which is directed downwards and forms a promi- nence, which is smooth at its superior part, but rough inferiorly. The ligamentum patellae is inserted in the latter situation; the smooth portion indicates the position of a bursa which intervenes between the ligament and the bone. This prominence is called the anterior tube- rosity, and by some anatomists the spine. From the inferior rough portion of this tube- rosity there passes upwards and outwards a prominent line, most prominent at its ter- mination, where the tibialis anticus muscle has one of its attachments. The shaft of the tibia has the form of a triangular prism in almost its whole extent: at its inferior third this form is less distinct, in consequence of the angles being rounded off. Of the three surfaces the anterior is that which presents the greatest dimensions : it is smooth and slightly convex in its entire extent, in- clined backwards and inwards, subcutaneous, except at its upper part, where an aponeurotic expansion connected with the tendons of the semi-tendinosus, sartorius, and gracilis muscles. The inferior fourth of this surface is much more convex than the upper portion, and looks directly inwards. The external surface is in- clined backwards and outwards, and is con- cave in its three superior fifths, convex in the rest of its extent. The depth of the superior concave portion is proportionate to the de- velopement of the tibialis anticus muscle, to which it gives insertion. The inferior con- vex portion is of less extent than the superior, and as it descends it experiences a change of aspect, so as to look directly forwards. This change is in accordance with the altered di- rection of the tendons of the tibialis anticus and extensor muscles of the toes, which lie in contact with the bone in this situation. The posterior surface is expanded at its extremities and contracted in the centre. At its superior part a triangular surface is marked off from the rest, towards the upper extremity by an oblique line, which proceeds from below up- wards, and from within outwards; into this line are inserted the poplitasus, soloeus, tibialis posticus, and the long flexor muscle of the toes. The space which intervenes between this line and the posterior margin of the head of the bone is covered by the poplitaeus muscle and forms part of the floor of the popliteal space. Immediately below this oblique line, the orifice of the nutritious canal is situated, penetrating the bone obliquely downwards; this canal is the largest of the medullary canals of the long bones ; and Cruveilhier states that he has traced a nervous filament passing into it in company with its artery. All that portion of the posterior surface which is below the oblique line is smooth and divided by a ver- tical line, which is variously developed in dif- ferent subjects; the tibialis posticus muscle and the long flexor of the toes are attached to this surface. Three distinct edges separate these surfaces. The anterior edge (crista tibia) is very promi- nent and sharp in its three superior fourths, but rounded off below : in its upper part it is quite subcutaneous, and may be felt under the skin. The external edge forms a very distinct line of demarcation between the internal and posterior surfaces; it gives attachment to the interosseous ligament, and at its inferior extremity it bifur- cates and encloses a concave triangular surface, in which the fibula rests. The internal edge is more rounded than either of the others; more distinct inferiorly than superiorly. At its up- per end it gives insertion to the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint and the popliteus muscle, and lower down to the solceus and the common flexor of the toes. ^^.j..-—— The inferior or tarsal extneihity of the tibia is of larger dimensions than the shaft, although much smaller than the superior. On its infe- rior surface we notice a quadrilateral articular cavity, of greater dimensions transversely than from before backwards, concave in this latter direction, and slightly convex transversely, in consequence of the existence of a slight ridge in the centre, which passes from before backwards. This surface is for articulation with the supe- rior part of the body of the astragalus to form the ankle-joint. The anterior surface of the inferior extremity of the tibia is convex and rough ; it gives in- sertion to the anterior ligamentous fibres of the ankle-joint, and the tendons of the extensor muscles pass over it. The posterior surface is very slightly convex; sometimes a very super- ficial groove exists upon it for lodging the ten- don of the flexor pollicis longus ; and internal to that, and lying behind the internal malleolus, a more distinct and constant groove, which passes obliquely downwards and inwards, and lodges the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor communis. On the inside of the inferior extremity, we observe that the bone is prolonged downwards and slightly inwards, forming a thick and flat- tened process, quadrilateral in form, called malleolus interims. The internal surface of this process is rough and convex; it is quite