FEMORAL ARTERY. 240 anil deeper layer of the fascia. The canal thus formed, to which the author would apply, with Cloquet, the term femoral canal, is widest at its upper extremity, i. e. at Poupart's ligament; from whence, as it descends, it contracts in width until it has passed the entrance of the saphena, beyond which it continues of nearly uniform capacity to its termination. The diminution in the transverse extent of the canal is due to the direction of the line of union between the superficial lamina of the iliac portion and the pubic portion of the fascia, which, as has been already stated, inclines outward as it descends from the pectineal line of the pubis to the point at which the saphena joins the femoral vein. In the interval between Poupart's ligament and the junction of the two veins the superficial lamina is thinner, less aponeu- rotic, and more of a cellular character than other parts of the fascia; but it is subject to much variety in this respect: in all cases it is thinner and weaker internally than externally, but in some it is throughout distinct and un- broken, unless by the passage of vessels, and presents aponeurotic characters as decidedly as many other parts of the expansion; while in others it is cellular, indistinct, and even fatty, not easily distinguishable from the subcuta- neous structure, and so thin as to seem de- ficient toward its inner part, or to have its line of union with the pubic portion inter- rupted at one or more points. The extent and connections of this portion of the fascia will be most satisfactorily displayed by first detaching Poupart's ligament, upon its abdo- minal side, from the fascia transversalis as it descends beneath the ligament, and then care- fully insinuating the handle of a knife down- ward beneath the ligament and the superficial lamina of the iliac portion of the fascia lata, between them and the prolongation of the fascia transversalis: this done, the superficial lamina may, with the guidance of the instru- ment beneath it, be satisfactorily traced. The fourth structure, by which the femoral artery is covered in the first stage of its course, is the prolongation of the fascia transversalis. The two abdominal fascia?, the transversalis and the iliaca, which are, at every other part of the crural arch, either identified and united, or inserted into bone, are separated in the in- terval between the middle of Poupart's and the base of Gimbernat's ligament, and de- scend into the thigh, the former in front of or superficial to the femoral vessels, beneath Pou- part's ligament and the superficial lamina of the iliac portion of the fascia lata; the latter behind or deeper than the vessels, between them and the psoas and pectinalis muscles, constituting or continued into the pubic or deep portion of the fascia lata. The two fascia; thus leave an aperture beneath Poupart's liga- ment, through which the vessels escape from the abdomen, and at the same time inclose them between them; the prolongation of the transversalis covering them in front, the iliac and pubic portion of the fascia lata situate behind them. As it descends upon the vessels, the prolongation from the transversalis is united to the fascia iliaca and iliac portion of the fascia lata upon their outside ; and to the pubic portion upon their inside, in the same manner as the superficial lamina of the iliac portion, and within it in reference to the femoral canal: it may therefore be viewed in one of two lights with regard to that canal, viz. either as de- scending into it superficial to the vessels, and entering into the constitution of its anterior wall, or as concurring with the other fasciae to form, beneath the superficial lamina of the iliac portion of the fascia lata, a sheath, in which the vessels are immediately contained. The latter is the view which has been adopted by anatomists, and the appellation femoral has been given to the sheath so formed. Like the superficial lamina of the iliac portion of the fascia lata, the prolongation of the fascia trans- versalis is wider at Poupart's ligament, and diminishes in w idth as it descends to the junc- tion of the saphena and femoral veins: hence the femoral sheath is considerably larger supe- riorly than inferiorly, does not embrace the vessels closely at their entrance into the thigh, and but for the aponeurotic expansion described by Colles, and termed by Cloquet the crural septum, would be open toward the abdomen ; but in proportion as they descend, it invests them more closely until it reaches the entrance of the saphena, at which point its connection to them is intimate, and from whence the prolon- gation seems to the author to be continued down- ward into the dense thin cellular or fibro-cellular investment, by which the artery and vein are surrounded and connected together within the femoral canal during the remainder of their course through the thigh. From Sir A. Coo- per's account of the prolongation it would appear that it terminated, or cannot be traced further than two inches below Poupart's liga- ment. Sir Astley says, " these vessels pass down within the sheath for about two inches, after which they carry with them a closely investing fascia derived from the fascia lata." By the " closely investing fascia," the author understands the proper sheath of the vessels, which has been adverted to, and with which the prolongation of the fascia transversalis appears to him to be identified. According to Professor Harrison,* " it soon becomes thin and indistinct, and is lost in the cribriform part of the fascia lata;" but in this view of its termination the author cannot concur ; the pro- longation is doubtless connected to the cribri- form fascia (the superficial lamina of the iliac portion of the fascia lata) by the vessels, which traverse both structures, but it is notwith- standing separable, without much difficulty, from it, by means of the proceeding already recommended for the display of that part— a proceeding equally applicable to that of the distinct existence and the connections of the expansion in question ; the superficial lamina being at the same time, as directed by Colles, divided from above downward, and its parts held to either side, inasmuch as a thin cellular * Dublin Dissector, p. 153.