933 INSECTA. tarsi, as in the latter instances.* Those insects which support themselves upon the surface of water, as the common gnat, have the under surface of each tarsus covered with rows of line hairs, which repel the water, and support the insect upon the surface. If the under sur- face of the tarsi be wetted with spirits of wine, the insect can no longer support itself upon the surface, but immediately sinks dovvn.f When the legs are employed in jumping, as in Haltica, the destructive flea-beetle of the turnip, and the Gryllida and Locust id a, the posterior pair, upon which devolves the greatest effort, as in the swimming insects, are con- siderably larger than the others; the thighs in particular are enlarged and lengthened, to allow room for the insertion of the muscles. But when the legs are employed in digging or burrowing, it is the anterior pair that become the most important, as in the mole-cricket, Gryllotalpa (G). In that insect the coxa («) is of an enormous size, and the trochanter at- tached to its inferior margin consists of two distinct articulations, one of which projects in a lobulated form, and probably is useful in assisting to remove the earth during the ope- rations of the insect. The femur (6) is short and broad, and is articulated both to the coxa and trochanter, and thus derives additional strength from its more secure connexion with the base of the limb ; while the tibia (c), which is the part immediately employed in burrow- ing, is also short, and divided at its extremity into four strong curved spines, directed out- wards, and forming as it were a broad hand, like the claw of the mole, for digging into and rapidly removing the earth in its burrow. The tarsus id), which appears to be almost useless in these subterranean labours, consists of three short articulations, which are attached to the external surface of the tibia. A similar con- formation of the tibia exists in other burrowing insects, since it is always this part of the limb that is employed in digging, and not the tarsus, which is used only in scraping or scratching away loose soil, as by the oil-beetles, Meloe, and the sand-wasps. Thus in the Scarabaida and Geotrupidte the anterior tarsi are broad and dentated laterally, and the posterior ones are armed with strong spines. In some genera, as in the Coprides and Onthophagi, the extremities are not only strongly spined, but are also broad and club- shaped, to assist them in penetrating into the loose excrement beneath which they are ac- customed to burrow. There are circumstances connected with the organs of locomotion in insects of considerable interest, and which cannot be passed over. These are the aberrations of form which they undergo as a consequence of incomplete de- velopment, and the occasional existence of supernumerary limbs, the result of an opposite tendency in the development of the germ. We have already alluded to the changes of form occasioned by the former of these circum- * Dcgccr Memoires, t. ii. p. 810, pi. 28. t Dr. Kogct's Biklgewater Treatise, vol. i. p. 334. stances, and we have now to notice the not less remarkable occurrence of the latter. Although every part of the body is subject more or less to these occurrences, the supernumerary parts are almost always antenna; or legs. We do not remember a single instance of a supernu- merary wing, or elytron, or organ of mandu- cation, although the whole of these parts are occasionally subjected to an aberration of form in consequence of imperfect development. Many instances of this kind are given by Dr. Herrmann Asmuss,* who has collected a mul- titude of facts connected with this interesting subject, from which it appears that abnormal forms are more frequent in the antenna? and legs than in other parts of the body. Only one instance is given of abnormal form of the mandible from arrested development, but several of the antenna; and legs. But the most frequent abnormal condition is found in the existence of supernumerary parts. Of these he has given two instances in which the antenna on one side of the head was double. These occurred in one of the FJaleridcc, Athous /lirtwijf and Carabus auratv$,% and one instance also in which it was trifurcated, in Helops cwruleHS.§ But it is remarkable that the most frequent occurrence of supernumerary parts is of the legs. Of these Asmuss has collected eight examples, and it is remarkable that in six of them the parts on one side are treble. Of the two instances in which the parts were double the first occurred in Agriotes obscurus,\\ in which there were two perfect prothoracic legs on the right side of the body, connected with the sternum by two distinct coxae. In the other instance, which occurred in Tele- phorus fuscus,% there were two meso-thoracic legs on the left side, connected together, and attached by a single coxa to the sternum. To these we may add a third instance, which occurred in Chrysomela hmmoptera, captured by Mr. Curtis, and described in his British Entomology.** In this specimen the super- numerary part is a tibia, apparently moveable, and developed from the extremity of the femur of one of the hinder pair of legs. A similar remarkable condition is described by Tiede- mannff as having occurred in Melolont/ia vul- garis, in which three tibia; and tarsi originated from a single coxa of the right metathoracic leg. Asmuss alludes also to the specimen of Oryctes nasicornis described by Audouin,U in which a similar number originated from the right prothoracic leg; and to a second example of Melolontha vulgaris,^ in which three tibia; and tarsi originated from a triangular, spatula- formed femur of the right prothoracic leg. In * Monstrositates Colcoptcrorum, Riga; et Dornati, 1835. t Bassi. f Doumcrc. § Seringe. || Germar. Bassi. ** PI. 111. Apr. 1826. ft Meckel's Archiv tiir Physiologic, t. v. 1819. p. 125. tab. 2, fig. 1. \% Annalcs dc la Soc. Entora. de France, 1834. 5<j Doumcrc.