281 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. guments of the eyebrow and forehead : one of these branches, as described by Meckel, runs outward, through the orbicularis, toward the external canthus, and establishes anasto- moses with filaments of the facial portio dura nerve. The long branches are two, an external and an internal; of those the external is, for the most part, the larger ; they ascend beneath the frontalis and the frontal aponeurosis, the former inclining outward, the latter inward, as they ascend; they distribute in their course ramifications to the muscle, and to the deeper structures of the scalp, as well as some- times, according to Meckel, to the pericra- nium, and traversing the frontal aponeurosis, they become subcutaneous, and terminate in the structure and integument of the scalp. The external communicates with the superficial temporal nerves ; the internal with the internal frontal, the supra-trochlear. They are said both to anastomose with the branches of the sub- occipital nerve; but Meckel states that he has pursued them until they have escaped his sight, and yet he could not discover any anastomoses between them and the branches of that nerve. 2. The nasal nerve is in size the second branch of the first division of the fifth, and arises always separately from the original trunk. Its course is inferior and internal to those of the other two, and hence the nerve is called by some the inferior, by others the internal branch. It is distributed partly to the eye and its appen- dages and partly to the nostril, and hence it is also called naso-ocular by Scemmerring. The direction of its course is forward and very much inward; it passes through the foramen lacerum into the orbit; then traverses that re- gion from without inward toward its internal wall, and having reached it at the foramen or- bitarium internum anterius, it escapes from the orbit through that foramen, and passes into the cranium; it emerges into the cranium from beneath the margin of the orbitar process of the frontal bone, and crosses the cribriform plate of the ethmoid obliquely forward and inward, contained in a channel in the bone, and in- vested by the dura mater, until it reaches the crista gal 1 i; it then descends from the cranium into the nostril, through the cleft, which exists at either side of the crista galli at the anterior part of the cribriform plate, and having reached the roof of the nostril, it divides into its final branches.* The nasal branch is concealed at its origin by the frontal, which is situate external and superior to it. Before its entrance into the orbit it is placed by the outer side of and closely ap- plied to the third nerve. In entering the orbit * The nasal is usually described as terminating by dividing within the orbit into two branches, the ethmoidal or internal nasal, and the infra-trochlear or external nasal: the author has preferred considering the former as the continuation of the nerve, be- cause in inferior animals both the nasal is the prin- cipal portion of the first division of the fifth, or alone constitutes it', and it is manifestly prolonged, as such, into the nostril and the beak. See Com- parative Distribution, it passes between the two.posterior attachments of the external rectus muscle, in company with the third and sixth nerves, external to the former and between its two divisions, and internal and somewhat superior to the latter. In its course across the orbit the nasal nerve passes above the optic nerve, immersed in fat, and accompanied by the ophthalmic artery, being at the same time beneath the levator palpebral, ihe superior oblique, and superior rectus muscles, and in crossing the optic nerve, it is placed between it and the last mentioned muscle. Through the foramen or- bitarium the nerve is accompanied by the an- terior ethmoidal artery, and within the cra- nium is situate beneath but not in contact with the olfactory bulb, being separated from it by the dura mater. The course of the nerve from the orbit to the nostril is liable to be modified by the developement of the frontal sinuses ; when they are very large, and extend, as they not unfrequently do, into the orbitar processes of the frontal bone and the horizontal plate of the ethmoid, the nerve may cross to the side of the crista galli without entering the cranium, being contained in a lamella of the ethmoidal bone. The nasal branch, before entering the orbit, receives, according to Bock, J. F. Meckel, and Cloquet, a filament from the sympathetic. The branches which the nasal gives ofT, are the lenticular, the ciliary, the infra-trochlear, and the nasal. The lenticular branch is given off as the nasal enters the orbit, and on the outer side of the optic nerve; it is a delicate branch, about half an inch long; it first anastomoses with the supe- rior division of the third nerve; then inns for- ward along the outer side of the optic nerve, and terminates by joining the superior and pos- terior part of the lenticular ganglion. Accord- ing to Bock and Meckel junior, it occasionally gives off a ciliary nerve, and according to Meckel senior it is, in rare instances, derived from the third nerve. To the latter statement, however, the author hesitates to assent: it ap- pears to him, that it should rather be said in such cases to be wanting. The ophthalmic, lenticular or ciliary ganglion, according to Cloquet, is of an oblong form— its greater length from behind forward; it is one of the smallest ganglia of the body, being, however, variable in size; its colour is reddish, at times white ; it exists constantly in the human subject: it is situate between the external rectus muscle and the optic nerve, laid against the outer side of the nerve, at a little distance from its entrance into the orbit; its external surface convex, corresponding to the muscle ; its internal, concave, to the nerve ; to its superior posterior angle is attached the len- ticular twig of the nasal branch of the first division of the fifth ; this filament constituting its long root; to its inferior posterior angle a filament from the inferior division of the third nerve is attached, constituting its short root. To the posterior part of the ganglion are also attached two filaments derived, one from the cavernous ganglion or the carotid plexus ; the other, the constant existence of which has not