INSECTA. 804 the cornete, but the ridge is absent, while the transverse ridges between the two portions of the clypeus are distinct, and also their corres- ponding sutures on the exterior. On the other hand, in the large Buprestis chrysis, the longi- tudinal portion of the epicranial suture is very distinctly marked on the upper surface, and ex- tends as far forward as the middle between the cornea, while internally the ridge is so largely ■developed that it extends downwards into the cavity of the head, like the ossified falx in the head of some Carnivorous Mammalia, partially dividing the posterior region of the head into two halves. But the clypeus anterior and pos- terior are so solidified together, and united with the epicranium, that they are not easily distin- guished. This is also the case in the rapacious ground-beetles, Cicindelidce, in which all the parts of the cranium are completely united, and the true clypeus is reduced to a narrow trans- verse plate, with which the labrum is freely ar- ticulated. But in the rapacious water-beetle, Dyticus niarginalis, although the ridge of the •epicranial suture is wanting, as in Cicindelida, the suture itself is remarkably distinct, and the anterior and posterior clypeus are well marked, and are very clearly seen owing to their thin- ness and translucency, when examined by transmitted light. The inferior surface of the head affords us ■equal reason with the superior, for believing that this part of the insect is formed of an ag- gregation of several segments. We shall ex- amine them more particularly when speaking of its development. On its interior surface are parts which tend much to confirm the opi- nion. In Hydrous piceus on each side of the occipital foramen there arises a strong bony plate, lamina posterior (t), which, bending a little towards the median line, extends across the basilar portion of the skull, as far as the os transversum (j), with which it is united. At a short distance from the occipital foramen the lamina of one side is connected with its fellow of the opposite by a narrow bony arch (u), which has been called by Straus ('arcade, and by Burmeister, who has described it in Dyticus, the tentorium. The two lamina beyond this are expanded upwards and laterally, and uniting anteriorly by a thin process form a cradle, or bed, which, as Straus and Burmeister have re- marked, supports the first suboesophageal gan- glion, while the two lamina posteriores inclose between them, as in a canal, the anterior por- tion of the spinal cord, which passes under the tentorium in its exit from the cranium through the occipital foramen. Each of these expanded portions of the lamina are united hy their superior angles with a narrow process (s), which articulates, as before noticed, with one of the apophyses of the upper surface or vault of the cranium. The orbital plates (w) above described are continued around the margin of the cornea, and form the inferior lateral boun- dary of the basilar portion of the cranium. Between the anterior margins of the cornea, extending across and dividing the basilar part of the skull from the sub-mentum, is a thick elevated ridge, the os transversum (x). On its anterior border the os transversum is connected with a minute bony ridge, which ex- tends forwards on each side of the sub-mentum, and it has also two articulating surfaces. The first and most internal of these (,r) is situated close to the base of the sub-mentum, and is that with which the hinge of the maxilla is articu- lated. The second is situated more externally, between this and the margin of the cornea. It is a deep smooth cotyloid cavity (y), which re- ceives the external inferior angle of the man- dible, and is separated from the articulation for the hinge of the maxilla by an elevated tubercle. Externally the base of the skull is connected only by an indistinct suture with a quadrate plate, the sub-mentum, which was sup- posed by Straus-Durckheim to form a process only of the basilar piece in melolontha, and was called by him the pre-basilaire. We have already seen that it is part of a distinct segment, and seems to correspond to the clypeus poste- rior of the upper surface. At the anterior mar- gin of the sub-mentum, or rather extending backwards upon that segment from the men- turn, are two broad diverging lamina (z), which support the fleshy pharynx and tongue, in which respect they are similar in office to the proper hyoid bones of vertebrata. They serve as means of attachment for some of the muscles of the pharynx, and are connected with similar lamina that cover the upper sur- face of the pharynx, and seem to be connected with the clypeus, as in the Lucanus cervus. The mcntum, like the sub-mentum, to which it is attached, is broad, quadrate, and supports the diverging lamina which form the floor of the mouth, and it also affords an attachment for some of the muscles of the tongue and labial palpi. The ligula, or most anterior portion of the labium, is densely covered on its upper surface with hairs. It is divided in the median line into two halves, which, when developed to a much greater extent, as in some other insects, take the name of paraglossa. The general structure of these parts is similar in most Coleoptera, but in some species there is considerable variation of form and relative size, owing to the greater development of one part than of another. Thus in Lucanus cervus, (Jig.388,) in which the whole head is developed to its greatest extent, and the epicranial and basilar regions, with the mandibles (,/'), have very far exceeded their usual proportions, the labrum is very minute, and soldered to the clypeus (d), and the maxilla (g) are reduced to small palpiform organs. Internally, the pos- terior lamina (t) do not extend forward to an os transversum, but are short, strong, triangular plates, which, instead of being connected, as in Hydrous and Melolontha, by an arcade, or ten- torium (w), support a double ring, or annulus, like the ring of a vertebra, through which the nervous cord passes before it arrives at the occipital foramen. In Geotrupes stercorurius there is a like annular form of the same parts, but the (amine squamosa, which are absent in Lucanus, are thick and strong, and form a complete cradle for the supra-cesophageal ganglion. In like manner a similar change in