880 INSECTA. by the cutaneous and respiratory surfaces. But when the changes in the internal structures are nearly completed, and the perfect insect is soon to be developed, the respiration of the pupa is greatly increased, and the gaseous expenditure of its body is augmented in the ratio of the volume of its respiration, which is greatest the nearer the period of development. Thus in the same insect in which the diminution of weight was so trifling during eight months' quiescence and abstinence, it amounted in the succeeding fifty-one days to nearly half the original weight •of the pupa, since the perfect insect, imme- diately after its appearance on the 24th of May, weighed only thirty-six grains. This increased activity of function is attended with a correspondent alteration in the general appearance of the pupa. In the sphinx all the parts of the future Imago become more and more apparent on the exterior of the pupa case, the divisions into head, thorax, and abdomen are more distinctly marked, the eyes, the an- tennae, and the limbs appear as if swollen and ready to burst their envelope, and the pupa gives signs of increasing activity by frequent and vigorous contortions of its abdominal seg- ments. The naked pupa or nymph, in which, as we have seen, all the parts of the body are free, and encased only in a very delicate mem- brane, acquires a darker colouring and a firmer texture, while the species which undergo their metamorphoses into nymphs in the water, Tri- choptcra, the caddis-flies, acquire a power of lo- comotion as the period of their full develop- ment approaches, to enable them to creep up the stems of plants, and leave that medium in which it is impossible for them to exist as per- fect insects. In every instance the assumption of the per- fect state is accompanied by a slipping off of the external covering. Before this can be ef- fected, many Lepidoptera, like the Trichoptera, have first to remove themselves from the locality in which they have undergone their previous metamorphoses. When this happens to be in the interior of the trunks of trees, or in other situations from which it is difficult to escape, the abdominal segments of the pupa are often beset with minute hooks (fig. 367), similar to those on the feet of the larva. By means of these, by alternately contracting and extending its abdominal segments, the pupa is enabled to force an opening through its silken coccoon, or to move itself along until it has overcome the obstacles which might oppose its escape as a perfect insect. The imago or perfect state.—Immediately after the insect has burst from the pupa case it suspends itself in a vertical position with its new organs, the wings, somewhat depending, and makes several powerful respiratory efforts. At each respiration the wings become more and more enlarged by the expansion and extension of the tracheal vessels within them, accompa- nied by the circulatory fluids. When these organs have acquired their full development the insect remains at rest for a few hours and gains strength, and the exterior of the body be- comes hardened and consolidated, and forms, what we shall presently consider, the Dermo- skeleton. This is what takes place in Lepidop- terous insects. Some of the Coleoptera, as in the instance of Melolontha vulgaris, the com- mon chaffer-beetle, remain for a greater length of time in their nidi before they come abroad after entering the imago state. This is also the case with the Humble-bees. When these in- sects first come from their cells they are exceed- ingly feeble, their bodies are soft, and covered with moisture, their thick coating of hairs has not acquired its proper colour, but is of a gray- ish white, and they are exceedingly susceptible of diminished warmth. They crowd every where among the cells, and among other bees, where there is most warmth. In a few hours this great susceptibility is diminished, and their bodies acquire their proper colours, but they do not become sufficiently strong to be capable of great muscular exertion, and undertake the labours of the nest until the following day. When an insect has once entered its perfect state, it is believed to undergo no further meta- morphosis or change of covering. But there exists an apparent exception to this general law in the Ephemeridte, which are noted for the shortness of their existence in the imago state. When these insects have crept out of the water, and rid themselves of the pupa covering, and their wings have become expanded, they soon take flight, but their first movements in the air are performed with some difficulty, and they shortly alight again and throw off a very deli- cate membrane with which every part of the body has been covered, and then resume their flight with increased activity. The condition of the insect previously to this final change has been called by Mr. Curtis the pseudimago state. It was noticed long ago by Swammerdam, and has usually been thought to be peculiar to the Ephemeridte, but occurs also in the Lepidoptera and Diptera,* but in them takes place at the same time with the change from the pupa state. Swammerdam thought the change peculiar to the males of the Ephemeridte, but Mr. West- wood has seen it also in the females. Many insects, of which the Ephemeridte arid Bombycidte are known examples, take no food in the perfect state, and exist only for a few hours, or at most only a few days, the business of life being almost entirely devoted to the pro- pagation of the species. In every instance of the entire abstinence of a species in the perfect state there is a corresponding atrophy of the parts of the mouth. This we shall find is the case in the Ephemera, in the gad-fly, (Estrus, and in the silk-worm moth. In the latter in- stance the parts of the mouth are simply so much diminished in size as to be unfitted for taking food; in the former they have almost disappeared. On the other hand, when the life of the imago is continued for a long period, all the parts of the mouth are fully developed. The duration of life in these species often ex- tends for many weeks, or in some even months, and the quantity of food taken is consequently greater than is taken by the larva. In those * Westwood's Introduction, &c. vol. ii. p. 28.