51 EDENTATA. small, triangular and slightly concave ; but the most extraordinary articulation is that of the fibula with the astragalus; its inferior extremity terminates in a conical point, which enters and plays in a corresponding cavity in the latter bone. This peculiarity of the articulation of the ankle, which was considered by Cuvier as only additional evidence of the imperfection of the animal's structure, is no less admirably adapted to its habits than those points which have been previously noticed. The feet, it is true, are turned inwards, and there is no pos- sibility of placing the sole on the ground; but it is the better adapted for clasping boughs, and the freedom of rotation which is provided by this curious joint allows of every kind of motion required in such circumstances. The tarsus consists of the astragalus and os calcis, which are separate, and of the usual anterior series of bones, which in the aged individuals are anchylosed together as well as to the meta- tarsal bones, which are themselves united as in the carpus. The tubercle of the os calcis is very long, and so situated as to afford a sort of opposing thumb to the flexed phalanges. The latter bones very nearly resemble those of the anterior extremity. It is impossible not to be struck, even on a superficial view of the extraordinary structure of the anterior and posterior extremities of the Sloth, with the complete adaptation of this deviation from the normal form to its peculiar mode of life. Grasping the boughs of trees on which it both feeds and reposes, crawling along with the back downwards and the belly pressed against the tree, and culling, with the long arms, the leaves at the inaccessible extre- mities of the branches, the usual construction of the members would be absolutely useless, and an incumbrance instead of an assistance. But by the great breadth of the pelvis, the di- rection of the femora, the long and curved claws, the consolidation of the tarsus, and the curious structure of the articulation of the fibula with the astragalus, every requirement of security and progression is obtained; whilst in the an- terior extremity the extensive motion of the shoulder-joint, the great length of the arms, the complete flexion of the fingers, and other peculia- rities, combine, with that security and facility of progression, the most effective means of ob- taining the animal's peculiar food. Of the Edentata proper.—The extremities in animals of this class are, as may be con- cluded from their habits, very differently constituted from those which have just been described. In all of them the object to be obtained is facility in digging the ground, or scratching up immense nests, in search of the insects which constitute the principal food of most of these animals. The gigantic Megatherium, however, appears to have combined the phytopha- gous character of the Sloth with the fossorial habits of the Dasy- pus, and is supposed to have lived upon roots, which it snatched or dug up with its enormous claws. The scapula of theA.nt-eaters and Armadillos is found nearly like that of the Sloth ; in the Myrmecophagajubata a process of bone extends from the coracoid process to the anterior margin, rendering that which is a notch in other species a complete foramen. A second spine inferior to the true one is also observed in that species, in which respect it resembles the Unau or two-toed Sloth. The scapula of the Armadillos is very high and narrow. In that of the Mega- therium there exists a large process of bone ex- tending from the coracoid process to the acro- mion,andthus completely uniting theseprocesses. The clavicle exists in many of the Edentata, as the Armadillos and Ant-eaters, but is wanting in the Manis or Pangolin. That of the Megathe- rium offers a remarkable peculiarity. It extends from the acromion, not to the sternum as in all other cases, but to the first rib. The humerus is in most of the order very short and robust, and its elevations strongly marked. In the Ant-eaters the part above the inner condyle is extremely developed, to give attachment to the powerful flexors of the claws ; and the crests for the in- sertion of the deltoid and great pectoral muscles are very prominent and angular,—a structure which is also conspicuous in the Armadillos and Manis. The humerus of the Megatherium has a similar general form; it is rude, short, and excessively strong, with abrupt and large ele- vations for the different muscular attachments ; the inferior part especially becomes suddenly larger, from the existence of a strong and ele- vated external crest. The habits of the Edentata proper demand a very different construction of the fore-arm from that of the Sloth. Requiring immense strength in digging the ground, the short ole- cranon which exists in the Sloth would be wholly inefficient. A long lever is necessary, and hence we find that in the whole of these the olecranon is of an extraordinary length, and that in the Megatherium its more moderate length is compensated for by its immense strength. In the five-toed Armadillo this pro- cess is so extensive as to render the ulna no less than twice the length of the radius, and in the other species of the same genus it is not much less. Trie radius is broad, robust, and strongly marked, particularly towards the carpal extremity. The hand in the Myrmeco- phuga (fig 36) and its kindred genus Manis Fig. 36. Hand of the Ant-eater. E 2