587 HEART. Relative dimensions of the auricula -ven- tricular orifices,.—The right auricula-ventricular orifice is larger than the left, as was correctly stated by Portal.* According to Cruveilhier, the largest diameter of. the right auriculo- ventricular opening which is antero-posterior is from 16 to 18 lines, and its smallest diameter is 12 lines; while the largest diameter of the left auriculo-ventricular opening, which is di- rected almost transversely, is from 13 to 14, and its smallest is from 9 to 10 lines. Bouillaud gives the results which he obtained from the accurate measurement of the circumference of these two openings in three perfectly healthy hearts. The average circumference of the left auriculo-ventricular opening was 3 inches 63 lines : the maximum was 3 inches 10 lines, and the minimum was 3 inches 3 lines. The average circumference of the right auriculo- ventricular opening was 3 inches 10 lines: the maximum was 4 inches, and the minimum was 3 inches 9 lines. Circumference of the aortic and pulmonary orifices.—The circumference of the aortic and ventriculo - pulmonary orifices is sometimes nearly equal ; more generally, however, the ventriculo-pulmonary is the larger. Bouillaud gives the following measurements of these openings taken from four healthy hearts :— Average circumference of the aortic opening, 2 inches 5J lines: the maximum 2 inches 8 lines, and the minimum 2 inches 4 lines. Average circumference of the ventriculo-pul- monary opening, 2 inches 7| lines: the maximum 2 inches 10 lines, and the minimum 2 inches 6 lines. I have found this difference between the circumference of these two open- ings marked distinctly at seven years of age. M. Bizot has given measurements of the ar- terial orifices, of which the following is the average. Aortic orifice, male. Average from 16 to 79 years.. 45^- lines. Aortic orifice, female. Average from 16 to 89 years .. 413 lines. Pulmonary orifice, male. Average from 16 to 79 years .. 54Jf lines. Pulmonary orifice, female. Average from 16 to 89 years .. 48^ lines. Size and weight.—Laennec has stated that the size of the heart in general nearly corre- sponds to the closed fist of the individual. This can only be considered as a loose ap- proximation, as the size of the hand may vary in different individuals otherways resembling each other, either from original conformation or from dissimilar modes of life ; and., besides, the size and form of the healthy heart itself may vary sufficiently to effect an apparent difference in these respects. The average length of the heart, according to Meckel, is 5J indies, of which about 4 inches are to be allowed for the ventricles, and \ \ inch for the auricles. Bouillaud found that a line drawn from the origin of the aorta to the point of the heart ranged, in nine * Anatomie Medicalc, t. iii. p. 69. healthy hearts, from 4 inches to 3 inches 2J lines. The average length was 3 inches 7J lines. The weight of the heart, according to Meckel, is about 10 ounces, and its propor- tionate weight to the whole body is as 1 to 200. Tiedemann is of opinion that the proportionate weight of the heart to the body is as 1 to 1-60.* The weight of the healthy and empty heart, according to Cruveilhier, is from 7 to 8 ounces. Bouillaud found the average weight in thirteen healthy hearts to be 8 ounces 3 drachms. According to Lobstein it weighs between 9 and 10 ounces. The size and weight of the heart must generally be to a great extent in. conformity with the size and weight of the body. In an athletic male we would expect it to weigh about 10 ounces, in an ordinary-sized individual about 8 ounces, and in weakly persons, or in cases of pro- tracted debility, it would be still more dimi- nished in weight. For the same reason it is generally larger and heavier in males than in females. Structure of the heart.—The heart consists of muscular and tendinous textures, of cellular tissue, of bloodvessels, of nerves, and of lym- phatics, enclosed between two serous mem- branes. Tendinous texture.-—The tendinous texture of the heart is placed, 1, around the auriculo- ventricular and arterial orifices; 2, within the reduplicature of the lining membrane forming the auriculo-ventricular and arterial valves; 3, it forms the chorda? tendinea?. Auriculo-ventricular tendinous rings.— Around each auriculo-ventricular opening we find a tendinous circle or ring, from the upper part of which the muscular fibres of the au- ricles arise, and from the lower part those of the ventricles, thus affording perhaps the only example in the human body of a strictly in- voluntary muscle having tendinous attach- ments. The tendinous ring surrounding the left auriculo-ventricular opening is stronger than that surrounding the right. These tendinous zones are thicker along the lower edge where the muscular fibres of the ventricle are attached, and become thinner along the upper edge where the muscular fibres of the auricles are attached, so that the fat occupying the auricular groove is seen through the upper portion of the ring on the right side. The right margin of the left auriculo-ventricular ring is connected with that surrounding the aortic opening. The existence of the auriculo-ventricular and arterial tendi- nous rings was well known to Lower.f Arterial tendinous rings.—The form of the tendinous rings surrounding the arterial open- ings, and the manner in which the large arte- ries are attached to their upper edges, have not, I think, been described with sufficient accu- racy. These textures are very plainly observed * If wc consider the ordinary weight of an adult heart to be 8 ounces, and the average weight of the whole body to be 150 lbs. the proportionate weight of the heart to the body would be as I to 225. f Tractatus De Corde, p. 29. 1669.