HERMAPHRODITISM. 705 Fig. 297. well developed fimbriae (e) at its abdominal extremity, and the broad ligament or fold of peritonaeum along which it ran contained an oblong soft body (i), (which Eschricht considered as distinctly an ovary,) ajid a round ligament that took its course through the inguinal canal of the same side. On the right side an ovary (k) and Fallopian tube (J') were likewise dis- covered, but they were displaced and separated from the body of the uterus. The ovary lay in the iliac region, and above it and towards its outer side was placed the fimbriated extremity of the corresponding Fallopian tube. The tube presented towards this extremity a vesicular swelling of the size of a small pea, which admitted of being inflated and filled with quicksilver through a small opening between the fimbriae. Below this it was impervious, and apparently diverged off into two prolonga- tions, one of which (the round ligament) passed down into the inguinal canal, and the other crossed over with a fold of peritonseum to where the rectum and urinary bladder were preter- naturally connected together. Professor Jacob- son suggested that this latter part was a rudi- ment of the right half or horn of the uterus. It may perhaps, however, be more properly regarded as the commencement of the right Fallopian tube, and in this case it would, if continued onwards, have been joined to the neck of the uterus,—an arrangement which would be quite in accordance with the usual deep and displaced origin of one of the tubes in instances of congenital obliquity of the uterus. The child was malformed in other respects also. The anus was imperforate, and the rectum (n) opened into the urinary bladder, which was very contracted. The kidneys (m) were irregularly formed, and lay near the pro- montory of the sacrum. There was an acces- sory spleen, and the formation of the heart and VOL. II. large vessels was abnormal. The other twin child was well formed and lived. b. The case of transverse hermaphroditism observed by Bouillaud* was even still better marked than that of Eschricht. Valmont, the individual who was the subject of it, died in one of the hospitals of Paris of the epidemic cholera. He was a hatter by trade, and had been married as a male. No further particulars of his history or habits could be obtained. The following was found by MM. Manec and Bouillaud to be the state of the external and internal sexual organs. Externally there was a penis (fig. 298) of a Fig. 298. medium size, terminating in a regularly formed glans (a), and furnished with a prepuce (b). The urethra (fig. 299, b b) opened on the inferior side of the glans (fig. 298 & 299, a). In its course from this point backwards to tlie bladder, it perfectly resembled the urethra of the male, and was surrounded at its origin by a well- formed prostate gland (fig. 299, k k). Cowper's glands were also present (fig. 298, d). The verumontanum or caput gallinaginis was dis- tinct, as well as the orifices of the prostatic follicles; but the usual openings of the seminal canals could not be found. The corpus spon- giosum urethra (fig. 298, g) and the corpora cavernosa (fig. 299, m m) were as well deve- loped as in the perfect male subject. The scrotum was small, and did not contain any testicles; it presented on its middle a line or raphe extending from the prepuce to the anus, and which was harder and better marked than it usually is upon male subjects. The various muscles of the male perinreum (fig. 298, c c) were present, and very perfectly formed. The constrictoresurinos muscles (e) were particularly long and thick. In the cavity of the pelvis two ovaries (fig. 399, d d), similar in form and structure, according to M. Manec, to those of a girl of fifteen or sixteen years of age, or (to adopt * Journ. Hebdom. de Med., torn. x. p. 466. " Exposition Raisonnee d'un cas de nouvelle ct singuliere variete d'hermapluodisme observce chez riioinme." 3 A