FIBRES OF THE HEART. 62G portion 2 is seen crossing over to join the band CpcaaaaC, just before it becomes the rope ; the fasciculus of fibres a from the aorta a a is also seen joining this band at its inner sur- face nearer the base. By the union of these two fasciculi with the band in question, the basial half of the posterior boundary of the right ventricle is formed. By pursuing, in fig. 282, this band or combination of fibres, lettered CpcaaaaC, it is seen to form, while it is gradually twisting upon itself, the brim of the left ventricle, and then to make a sharp twist of its fibres into the rope R R, by which means they are rendered the internal fibres of the left ventricle; in fig. 280 they may be traced expanding- again into a layer, pursuing the same spiral sweep from left to right, but from the base towards the apex, and inwardly instead of outwardly. Thus the de- monstration brings us back to our starting-point. We have yet to trace the shorter of the two bands which originate in the splitting of the middle mass of fibres, cue, in fig. 278, to embrace the right ventricle. This view ex- hibits only the inner fibres of this mass as they are prolonged into the inner or longer of the two bands; but fig. 281 affords an outer view of this mass of fibres as they are prolonged into the outer or shorter band. They are seen winding spirally up from the apex marked crc, and at the anterior coronary track, act, they split, in the form of a band, from the general mass to pass over the lower half of the cavity of the right ventricle. In this figure this band is separated and left extended, in order that the accessions of fibres it receives from the right surface of the septum may be seen, which are the fibres a from the aorta aa, and the fibres c and c form two of the carneee columns (not in view) passing obliquely down from right to left to the anterior edge of the septum, from which they extend into the band which is lettered Cacc, and unite in- timately with its fibres. When the band is replaced in its course over the ventricle, its accessory fibres are made to reflect at an acute angle upon themselves, and thus form the apicial part of its anterior boundary. This band describes one spiral circle round the heart, arriving again at the anterior coronary track at its basial extremity; it is inserted into the aorta, and if the fibres make a very oblique approach to the base, they will be also inserted into the tendinous margin of the annulus arte- riosus. The continuation of this band round the posterior side of the heart can be traced in fig. 279. Its width is equal to about a third of the heart's axis; it is seen marked Cacc in its spiral ascent from left to right, passing, first, a little below the middle third of the heart; at the posterior coronary track, pet, becom- ing the middle third, and afterwards approach- ing gradually the base m its way to its points of insertion before-mentioned. As the tracing the fibres from the circum- ference to the centre, and from the centre to the circumference, is a matter of much difficulty, and as the description has been attended with much detail, it is desirable that a more general and concise view by means of a diagram should be afforded of the courses which the fibres take in constructing this organ. Recapitulation. (Vid. the diagram fig.283.) We commence tracing the fibres of the heart from its very centre. The fibres, cc, from the two carneas columnae of the left ventricle, lv, are joined by the fibres, r, from the rope RR, after those fibres of the rope have expanded and formed the internal layer of the septum S ; in winding round the axis of this cavity they blend together as the initial letters crc indi- cate. The inmost of these fibres descend as far as the apex, where they twist sharply round and close the cavity, by which means they construct the apex, and become the superficial fibres of the heart. But the chief bulk of this mass of blended fibres makes a spiral sweep from left to right round the axis above the apex; and when it has described two circles, crc, it splits at the anterior edge of the septum into two bands, one being considerably longer than the other. The longer first makes one circle round the left ventricle, then another, enclosing both ventri- cles. In making the first circle it passes through the septum forming its middle layer, and on reaching its posterior edge itreceives from the pulmonary artery accessory fibres, which have crossed over the cavity of the right ven- tricle, forming the inmost layer of its right or proper wall, and fibres from one of the carnese columnae of this ventricle, and from the aorta, being marked Cpca. The accessory fibres are not represented, as they would have ren- dered the diagram complicated and unintelligi- ble ; but they are indicated by their initials being added in the lettering of the bands. This band in question may now be traced round the middle third of the left ventricle advancing towards both the base and the outer surface of the heart; on completing its first Fig. 283.