422 ORGANS OF GENERATION. ejaculated during copulation by a muscular arrangement provided for that purpose ; and in the last place the emission of the fecundating fluid is further provided for by the addition of secondary secretions, which from augmenting its quantity facilitates its ejection. We shall proceed to speak of these circum- stances seriatim, examining first, the structure and position of the testis and its duct; secondly, auxiliary glands which add their secretions to the seminal liquor; thirdly, the structure of the penis, and arrangement of the organs of intro- mission. We have found in all the classes of verte- brata of which we have hitherto treated, that the testes consisted essentially of blind tubes. In Frogs these sperm-secreting canals were ex- ceedingly short; in other Amphibia they become elongated and flexuous. In Reptiles their length and convolution was still further in- creased, until at length in Birds and Mamma- lia their length is so great, and their delicacy so excessive, that they are with difficulty unra- velled. In all animals the terminations of the seminal tubes are found to be closed, neither is any increase or diminution perceptible in the diameter of one of these vessels throughout its whole course. Another circumstance which, with one or two exceptions, is common to all Mammals, is that they never ramify or divide.* Mammalia differ much amongst each other as regards the length, number, convolutions, and general arrangement of these secerning vessels of the testis. In the Ass they are very delicate; of greater diameter in the Cynoce- phalus and larger Carnivora, as well as in the Hog and Rhinoceros. They are very large in the Glire$, and in Sciurus their diameter reaches -0-01453 inch (Paris), whilst in the Hedgehog they are only 0-00970 inch. The tenuity of the walls of these seminal vessels is extreme, and scarcely applicable by the micrometer; they are united together by a most delicate tissue of capillary bloodvessels, serving to imbue them with that blood from which the semen is separated, which when se- creted accumulates in the cavities of these tubes in readiness for expulsion. The testes are very variously situated in the adult state of different mammals. Sometimes they are contained within the abdominal cavity, attached on each side of the spinal column by folds of the peritoneum, as in the ovipara; at other times they descend into the skin of the groin through the inguinal canal, and not un- fiequently are contained in a scrotal pouch formed by the integument behind the pubic arch; and in the Marsupial division, which, when describing the female sexual organs, we shall find to constitute a distinct type of the generative system, they are suspended in front of the pelvis. The excretory duct of each testis or vas de- ferens is formed by the junction of the seminal canals of the testis ; it is at first much convo- luted, forming a mass appended to the testicle, denominated the epididymus; and whatever * In Sciurus they have been observed to divide dichotomously. may be the position of the testicle, it runs to discharge itself into the canal of the urethra near the commencement of that tube. The prostate gland is a secreting- body of pe- culiar structure, which, in man, embraces the neck of the bladder, and opens by ten or twelve ducts into the urethra near its commencement. It is very constant in its existence, being found in all orders of Mammalia, excepting, perhaps, the greater number of the Rodentia, the Mole, and the Hedgehog, in which it is apparently replaced by secerning organs of a widely dif- ferent structure; otherwise, the internal organi- zation of this gland is nearly the same in all animals that possess it, consisting essentially of cells, each of which is subdivided into others of extreme minuteness. From these cells the excretory ducts take their rise, and the whole organ may be readily inflated by forcing air into the canals which issue from it: the whole is enclosed in a dense fibrous capsule. In some animals, as the Elephant and Solipeds, the prostate is double or even quadruple, and in this case the centre of each portion has within it a large cavity which communicates with the smaller cells, and gives origin to the excretory tube. Coivpers glands.—These glands in the hu- man subject are two very small bodies situated behind the bulb of the urethra, which furnish minute canals, opening obliquely into the urino- generative canal near its posterior portion; but minute as they are in man, they are found in other creatures to be much more voluminous, net unfrequently equalling the prostate in size, and in some cases, especially in the Marsupial division, they are increased in number; thus in the Opossums and Kangaroo-rat there are four, while in the Wombat (Fhascolomys), the Kangaroo, and others, even six are found: nevertheless in most of the Carnivora, except the Felidae and Hyenas, and in the greater number of Ruminants, Solipeds, Amphibia, and Cetacea, they are deficient. The internal structure of Coivpers glands varies. In man and many others they are composed of simple follicles ; in other cases, as in Sciurus, the Marmot and the Hog, they consist of conical sacculi, which exhibit in- ternally a cellular appearance. In the Beaver (Castor Fiber) their texture is spongy, being formed of large cells, divided by septa into smaller ones of extreme minuteness ; those of the Mole are similarly constructed. In Vi- verra Zibetha, the feline tribes and the Hyena, they are made up of separate lobules; and in the Ichneumon these glands are composed of vesicles united by a common duct. In the Hedgehog (Erinaceus Europceus) they are found in a very singular position, being partly situated beneath the rami of the pubis and ischium, and partly beneath the skin on the inner side of the thigh, being so remote from the other glands that their existence was over- looked by Cuvier. Each gland consists of pyramidal lobules, which, by their apices, give rise to the excretory canals. In some of the Marsupiata their minute structure resembles what is found in the Hedge- hog; and each of them is surrounded by a