HEARING. 567 the two stations ought to be conjugate foci of the reflecting surface, i. e. such that if the reflecting surface were polished, rays of light diverging from one would be made after re- flexion to converge to the other. Hence, if a vault be in the form of a hollow ellipsoid of revolution, and a speaker be placed in one focus, his words will be heard by an auditor in the other, as if his ears were close to the other's lips. The same will hold good if the vault be composed of twosegments of paraboloids having a common axis, and their concavities turned towards each other; only in this case sounds excited in the focus of one segment will be collected in the focus of the other after two reflexions. The most favourable circumstances for the production of a distinct echo from plane sur- faces is when the auditor is placed between two such exactly half-way. In this situation the sounds reverberated from both will reach him at the same instant, and reinforce each other: if nearer to one surface than the other, the one will reach him sooner than the other, and the echo will be double and confused.* We propose to enquire the part which each portion of the complex auditory apparatus of man performs in the function of hearing. I. Of the internal ear.—The fact that a part, answering precisely to the vestibule, is to be met with in every class of animals in whom an auditory apparatus can be detected, affords a strong presumption that this portion of the labyrinth is the essential part of the organ. Here is the seat of the principal expansion of the auditory nerve upon the saccule and common sinus, which floating in the perilymph communicate, through the medium of that fluid, with the membrane of the fenestra ovalis, and consequently with the air contained in the tym- panum. Any vibrations or oscillations then excited in the membrane of the fenestra ovalis, cannot fail to affect the perilymph to a propor- tional extent, and through it the membranous vestibule. In the simple ear of Crustaceans as well as that of Cephalopods and the lowest Cyclostomous fishes, the sonorous impressions are conveyed directly to the vestibular cavity through the solid material in which that cavity is formed, or, as in some Crustaceans, through the vibration of an external membrane. In the higher organized fishes, too, the labyrinth constitutes the whole of the auditory apparatus, nor has it any kind of opening to or communication with the external air, being lodged in the walls or cavity of the cranium, the sonorous impressions must be conveyed through the solid cranial parietes; for, in truth, there is no other mode in which they can be conveyed, and we know that solids are even better conductors of sound than either liquids or aerial fluids.f As to the function performed by the otolithes, * Herschel, Encycl. Metrop. t Hunter, Monro, Weber, and Treviranus, how- ever, describe a communication with the exterior in Rays and the Shark by two long canals ; but Scarpa, Bell, and Blainville positively deny that these ducts perform the office of auditory canals, j or the calcareous dust, otokonies, which are found in the sacculus vestibuli of the ears of Cephalopods and Fishes, no satisfactory theory has as yet been offered by any physiologist. Although it is now admitted that similar cal- careous particles exist in the vestibules of all vertebrated animals, still they are only in a rudimental condition when compared with those of fishes ; indeed it seems not unreason- able to suppose that the calcareous dust or otokonie of cartilaginous fishes (the ray or shark for example) is rudimental of the hard, porcellaneous, and artfully formed otolithe of the osseous fishes.* A sort of loose notion seems to prevail, that the presence of this hard body in the vestibule favours the communication of sound, by impinging upon the expansion of the auditory nerve. The following obser- vations of Camper no doubt propagated this idea, if they did not originally give rise to it: " Pour etre convaincfi," says this distinguished physiologist, " qu'un corps plus on moins dur, mais flottant dans une substance gela- tineuse recoit la plus legere commotion ou mouvement exterieur, on n'a qu'a remplir un verre de gelce de corne de cerf, ct y plonger quelque corps, on sentira aux doigts le mouve- ment de ce corps des qu'on remuera le verre, ou qu'on lui donnera un petit choc avec un doigt de l'autre main. Quand on enferme dans une petite vessie quelque corps dur, le moindre mouvement de la vessie fait branler ce corps, qui produit une sensation tres forte sur le doigt qui tient la vessie." f Sir A. Carlisle thinks that the nature of this substance has reference to the habits of the particular class of fishes in which it exists. " Fishes," he says, " are only provided with more simple organs of hearing, ordained to inform them of collisions among rocks and stones, or the rushing of water or moving bodies in that element: and since the collisions of stones or of water are only variable in their magnitude or intensity, fishes are provided with these dense ossicles to repeat the sem- blable acute tones of similarly dense substances, such as rocks, stones, gravel, &c." Again, " There is an especial sac of calcareous pulp given to skates and some other cartilaginous fishes in the place of the dense ossicles, ap- parently intended to respond to the movements of sand and muddy strata on which they are doomed to reside; and it is remarkable that the sturgeon has its auditory ossicles consisting partly of hard substance and partly of calca- reous pulp." % Weber believes that the otolithes in fishes supply the place of the cochlea which is want- ing in these animals: the auditory nerves being connected with them receive the vibrations * So definite does the form of these otolithes appear to be in osseous fishes, that Cuvier says the osseous fishes may be determined by their otolithes as well as by any other character. t Mem. de l'Acad. des Sciences, an. 1779, and quoted in Scarpa De auditu et olfactu, p. 23. % Quoted from a Mss. Essay on sound, in the Hunterian Catalogue, vol. iii. p. 193. Miiller calls the otolithe " Eine freier solider Schwingungen repcrcutirender Kbrpcr."