fixed attachment, viz. the tendinous rings, while by their other extremity part only are directly attached to the tendinous rings, the other part being loose, or at least only connected to the tendinous rings through the lax chorda? tendi- nea and valves, it must follow that the force with which the contraction takes place towards the septal extremity must preponderate over the other. If these bands of fibres had been as closely connected to the tendinous rings at the one extremity as at the other, then the force of the contraction towards both would have been equal; but since this is not the case, the apex must be carried forwards at the same time that it is drawn upwards towards the base. This forward motion may also probably be assisted by another arrangement of the same fibres which we have been describing; for some of these muscular bands are attached by their inner extremity to the anterior part of the left auriculo-tendinous ring, so as to form loops, the greater part of which lie more in front than be- hind the axis of the heart, and may have a ten- dency, when in a state of contraction, to draw the apex forwards and upwards. Now when we remember that by this elevation of the apex forwards, the heart, before placed obliquely, now becomes more horizontal, and conse- quently more approximated to the walls of the chest,—the more particularly as the transverse diameter of the chest diminishes rapidly as we proceed from below upwards, we believe that we have here sufficient to account for this im- pulse against the chest. As the proximity of the apex of the heart to the chest is affected by the position of the body, as we have already pointed out, this circumstance ought to be at- tended to in judging of the strength of the im- pulse of the heart. What parts of the heart most irritable.—The inner surface of the heart is considerably more irritable than the outer. In experiments, when the heart has become quiescent, and refuses to obey a stimidus applied to the outer surface, it frequently contracts readily for a short time after this when air is introduced into its cavi- ties, or when any other stimulant is applied to its inner surface. After death the different cavities of the heart generally lose their contrac- tility in the following order, the left ventricle, the right ventricle, the left auricle, and last of all the right auricle.* And as the heart is gene- rally the part of the body which shews the latest evidences of contractility, the right auricle has long received the name of ultlmum moriens. Ualler supposed that the greater persistence of contractility in the right side of the heart over the left might depend on the circumstance that the right side of the heart generally contains a greater or less quantity of blood after death, while the left side is generally empty. In this * There is occasionally considerable variety ob- served in the order in which the different cavities lose their contractility after death. The left ven- tricle has been seen to contract after the right auri- cle ; and Haller has observed in experiments upon cats the irritability of the left auricle first cease. In experiments upon dogs I have seen the ventri- cles contract after the auricles had ceased to do so. 607 HEART. manner the inner surface of the right side of the heart is subject after death to the presence of a stimulant from which the left side is compara- tively free. He put this opinion to the test by performing repeatedly the following experi- ment* He emptied the right side of the heart by the section of the pulmonary artery and venae cava, having previously retained the blood of the left side by passing a ligature around the aorta. The experiment succeeded many times : the right auricle remained per- fectly immoveable, and the only motion which the right side retained arose from the connexion of its fibres with those of the left ventricle. The left auricle retained its movements for a certain time, the ventricles during a longer period, sometimes even for two hours. He adds, we thus transfer from the right auricle to the left ventricle the property of being the last living part in the body, in preserving for it during a longer period the irritation produced by the contact of blood. These experiments of Haller certainly shew that the left side of the heart will continue to contract longer than the right where it is subjected to a stimulant of which the other is deprived ; but they do not entitle us to conclude that the persistence of their contractility is the same when placed un- der similar circumstances. We have every reason for believing that the right auricle is the part of the heart which last loses its contracti- lity. Indeed Haller himself confesses, that if any part of the heart remains longer contractile than another, it is the right auricle. Nysten,f who performed a number of experiments upon the comparative persistence of the irritability in the different contractile parts of the body in the human species, after decapitation by the guillotine, and when the heart was conse- quently emptied of its blood, obtained the fol- lowing results upon the order in which the dif- ferent parts of the heart lose their contractility : —1st, the left ventricle, the contractility of which is annihilated much more quickly than that of the other organs ; 2d, the right ventri- cle, the movements of which generally continue more than an hour after death; 3d, the two auricles, the right being of all the parts of the heart that which preserves for the longest time its contractile power. The stimulant used in these experiments was galvanism. The greater persistence of the con- tractility in the right auricle over the other parts of the heart has been observed by other experi- menters, after it had been cut from the body, and consequently without any contained blood. The particular part of the auricle which last loses its contractility varies in different cases. Sometimes the appendix is found contracting when the rest of the auricle is quiescent; at other times, and perhaps more frequently, those parts of the auricle around the entrance of the venaj cava? retain their contractility longest. * Sur le mouvement du sang, p. 172. Similar experiments were performed by Walther with the same results : Experimenta de vivis animalibus, p. 11, as quoted by Burdach. t Rechcrches de Physiologie, &c. p. 321.