600 HEART. pointed out in describing the interior of the right auricle, is also intimately connected with the peculiarities of foetal life. It was discovered by Eustachius about the middle of the six- teenth century, who contented himself by point- ing out its position. Little attention was paid to it until the commencement of the eighteenth century, when it was more particularly brought into notice by Boerhaave and Lancisi, who published a new edition of the works and plates of Eustachius, which had then become very scarce. Lancisi supposed that this valve prevented the blood of the superior cava from falling with too much force upon the column ascending by the cava inferior. Winslow,* finding it only perfect in the foetal state, and having cause to believe that its diminution kept pace with the increase of the valve of the foramen ovale, was led to adopt the opinion that its presence had a special reference to that state, and believed that it not only served to break the current of the superior cava as stated by Lancisi, but also opposed the regurgitation of the blood of the auricle into the inferior cava. In the absence of this valve he supposed there would arise two inconveniences in the foetus—the imperfect intermixture of the con- tained blood, and the regurgitation of the blood of the umbilical vein into the placenta. Senacf believed that the Eustachian valve can have no effect in preventing the blood of the cava supe- rior from falling upon the current ascending by the cava inferior, and that it must direct a part of the blood of the cava inferior through the foramen ovale. SabatierJ more particularly pointed out that from the position of this valve passing from the anterior and left part of the vena cava inferior to the left side of the foramen ovale, and from the situation of the foramen ovale at the inferior part of the auricle, the blood of the cava inferior must be directed through the foramen ovale; and further, from the difference in the direction of the two cavae themselves—the superior looking downwards, forwards, and to the left side, while the inferior, though it is also slightly directed to the left, passes at the same time upwards and back- wards, when combined with the upper thick margin of the foramen ovale—it would neces- sarily happen that the blood of the superior cava must fill the right auricle. In three injections of the foetal circulation which I performed, where arrangements were made to imitate, as far as possibly could be done, the manner in which the two currents flow into the heart during the life of the foetus, results were obtained confirmatory of the opi- nion of Sabatier.§ This arrangement cannot of course exist in the early months of uterine * Memoires de l'Acad. Roy., annee 1717. t Op. cit. torn. i. p. 228. t Traite complet d'Anatomie, torn. ii. p. 224. § Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 1835. These injections are also confirmatory of one made by Kilian, where the fluid thrown along the aorta passed to the head and superior extremities, and that along the pulmonary artery to the lower part of the body. life from the imperfect developement of th e heart itself, and in all probability part only of the blood of the inferior cava is transmitted through the foramen ovale into the left side of the heart for a short time before birth. The pulmonary veins appear to bring very little blood to the left side of the heart until the time approaches that the foetus must necessarily assume an independent existence. The circu- latory apparatus becomes gradually prepared for this change;—the Eustachian valve begins to shrink, the foramen ovale to diminish in size, and a greater quantity of blood is transmitted through the lungs. Billard* has ascertained from the examination of the bodies of a great number of infants who died within a few days after birth, that the foramen ovale and the other circulatory passages peculiar to the foetus are generally shut about the eighth day after birth. In nineteen infants who had lived only one day the foramen ovale was completely open in fourteen; in two it had commenced to become obliterated, in the remaining two it was com- pletely shut. On the subsequent days the number of those with the foramen shut con- tinued to increase; and in twenty examined, who had died on the eighth day, five only had the foramen open. Physiology of the heart. Mode of action of the valves of the heart.— While the blood is rushing through the auri- culo-ventricular openings during the contrac- tion of the auricles, the lips of the mitral and tricuspid valves are separated from each other and thrown outwards from the axis of the opening, and the larger lip of both is at this time carried towards the arterial orifices. It has generally been supposed that the mitral and tricuspid valves are, during the systole of the ventricles, passively floated up towards, and obstruct the auriculo-ventricular orifices so as to prevent the free regurgitation of the blood into the auricles; and that the use of the cordse tendmese is merely to limit the movements of the valves,—to permit them to be raised suffi- ciently to close the orifices, but at the same time to provide against the otherwise unavoid- ably fatal consequences that would result from these unresisting valves being carried through into the auricles by the current of blood. Mayo, Bouillaud, and others have, however, main- tained that the lips of these valves are not approximated in the mechanical manner just stated, but by the contraction of the musculi papillares of which the cordae tendineae are the proper tendons. As the musculi papillares contract along with the other fibres of the ven- tricles, the lips of the valves are drawn towards the axis of the opening, and are closely applied to each other, forming a kind of cone, the apex of which projects downwards into the ven- tricles. Jt is from the adoption of these views that Bouillaud proposes to call these musculi papillares, the tensor, elevator, or adductor muscles of the valves. That the lips of the * Traite des Maladies des Enfaas nouveau-nes, &c, p. 557, 1828.