204 EYE. adherent to the capsule of the lens by an inser- tion a little narrower. This insertion appears to be effected by the intervention of the hyaloid membrane, to which this fan is attached. I have not had time to establish this con- nexion to my satisfaction, and I still entertain doubts respecting it. I have seen a red artery accompany this feather-like production and run to the crystalline. It would be very convenient for physiology that this folded membrane should prove muscular ; we should then have the organ sought after, which would retract the crystalline to the bottom of the eye." In the Elementa Physiologic, t. v. p. 390, he says it originates from the entrance of the optic nerve, but that you may remove the retina and leave the pecten. He says again, " it advances for- ward to the posteiior part of the capsule, to which it sometimes adheres by a thread, and sometimes the lens is merely drawn toward it." An artery and vein is supplied to each fold, and perhaps to the capsule of the lens. In the Opera Minora he says that there are two red vessels to each fold in the kite, and no cord runs to the lens; that in the heron a branch of artery runs to each fold, and it adheres so closely to the lens that it cannot be ascertained whether a red vessel runs from it to the lens or not; that in the duck it is contracted toward the lens, and adheres to it by a thread contain- ing a red vessel. He also says that in the wild duck it arises from the margin of the linea alba, which terminates the entrance of the optic nerve, contains numerous vessels, and adheres to the lens; and in the pie it is large and adheres to the lens, so as to pull it. D. W. Sbmmerring says, that in the pecten of the golden eagle, of which Jig. 128 is a representation, there are fourteen folds like ciliary processes, and that it adheres by a transparent filament to the capsule of the lens; that in the great horned owl it is short and thick, with eight folds, and adhering to the lens by an hyaloid filament, although at a great distance from it; and that in the macaw it is longer than broad, has seven folds, and adheres to the lens. In the ostrich he says it is shaped like a patella at its base, which is white, oval, and thick; eight lines long and five broad, distinctly separate from the choroid, above which it rises, the retina being interposed. From the longer diameter of this patella (or base) a white plane or lamina projects even up to the lens, and sends out on each side seven small plaits, the lower ones partly double, the upper ones simple, black, and delicate. This conical body, something like a black purse, tapers toward the lens, and by its apex is attached to the capsule by a short semi-pellucid ligament. The white substance of the base and partition of the pecten should not be con- founded with the medullary part of the optic nerve, which, emerging on all sides from be- neath the base, expands into a great, ample, and tender retina, terminating behind the ciliary processes with a defined margin. Cuvier, in his Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, says, " It appears of the same nature as the choroid, although it has no connexion with it; it is like- wise very delicate, very vascular, and imbued with black pigment. Its vessels are derived from a particular branch of the ophthalmic artery, different from two which belong to the choroid; they descend on the folds of the black membrane and form ramifications there of great beauty when injected. This mem- brane penetrates directly into the vitreous humour, as if a wedge had been driven into it; it is in a vertical plane directed obliquely forward. The angle nearest the cornea in those species in which it is very broad, and all its anterior margin in those in which it is narrow, comes nearly to the inferior boundary of the capsule of the crystalline. In some species it approaches so near that it is difficult to say whether or not it is attached to it; such is the case in the swan, the heron, the turkey, &c. according to Petit; but there are other birds in which it remains at some distance, and in which it does not appear to attach itself except to some of the numerous plates which divide the vitreous humour into cells. In the swan, heron, and turkey, this membrane is broader in the direction parallel to the produced extre- mity of the optic nerve than in the contrary direction. In the ostrich, cassowary, and owl the reverse is observed. It is folded like a sleeve in a direction perpendicular to the caudal termination of the optic nerve. The folds are rounded in most species; in the ostrich and cassowary they are compressed and sharp, and so high perpendicular to the plane of the membrane that at first sight it resembles a black purse. The folds vary in number, there being sixteen in the swan, ten or twelve in the duck and vulture, fifteen in the ostrich, and seven in the grand duke or great horned owl. The purpose for which the pecten exists in the eyes of birds does not appear to be fully ascertained. Petit says, " when a bird views an object with both eyes, the rays enter oblique- ly in consequence of the situation of the cornea and crystalline lens, and proceed to the bottom of the eye; but as they enter in lines parallel to the membrane, they do not encounter it. The rays which enter the eye in lines perpen- dicular to the plane of the cornea encounter this membrane, and are absorbed by it as well as those which come from the posterior side; the subject is, however, a difficult one." Haller supposed that it was merely destined to afford a medium through which vessels might pass to carry blood to the crystalline. Cuvier says, " It is difficult to assign the real use of this membrane. Its position should cause part of the rays which come from objects at the side of the bird to fall upon it. Petit believed that it was destined to absorb these rays and prevent their disturbing distinct vision of objects placed in front. Others thought, and the opinion has been lately reiterated by Home, that it possesses muscular power, and that its use is to approach the lens to the retina when the bird wishes to see distant objects. Never- theless, muscular fibre cannot be detected in it, and the experiments intended to prove its muscularity after death are not absolutely con- clusive ; moreover, as it is attached to the side