159 EXTREMITY. the humerus to the scapula. The rule seems to be that where the pectoral extremity is chiefly a pillar of support, the aspect of the glenoid cavity is nearly vertically downwards. If free- dom and rapidity of motion be required in addition to strength as a member of support, the trunk being lighter, the scapula is oblique, and consequently the glenoid cavity looks downwards and forwards; or if the limb be not used to support the trunk, then the aspect of the glenoid cavity is no longer downwards but outwards, as in man. Structure.—The greatest part of the scapula is composed of very thin almost papyraceous compact substance; but its processes, and the enlargements at its edges and angles, contain reticular tissue. Developement.—This bone is developed by six points of ossification; one for the body, and five supplementary ones, viz. one for the coracoid process, two for the acromion, one for the posterior border of the bone, and one for its inferior angle. The ossification of the body commences about the second month, and the spine appears in the third month as a growth from the posterior surface of the scapula. The union of the several epiphyses is not completed till late, and it is not until after the fifteenth year that the ossification is finished. The bones of the upper extremity, properly so called, are the humerus, radius, ulna, and bones of the hand. Humerus, (os brachii; Fr. Vos du bras; Germ, das Oberarmbein). This is the longest bone of the upper extremity; it is situated between the scapula and forearm, being, as it were, suspended by muscle and ligament from the former. Like all long bones, the humerus consists of a shaft and two extremities. The superior extremity is formed by a smooth and rounded convexity, rather less than half a sphere; a slight depression in, or constriction of, the bone, most manifest above, marks the limit of this articular eminence. The eminence is called the head of the humerus; the constric- tion indicates what is denominated the anato- mical neck of the bone, being that portion which connects the head to the shaft, and analogous to the more developed neck of the thigh-bone. The axis of the neck is but a continuation of that of the head, and passes in a direction from within outwards and down- wards, forming an obtuse angle with the axis of the shaft. The head of the humerus is entirely covered by articular cartilage, and arti- culates with the glenoid cavity of the scapula, to which, however, it obviously does not at all correspond in dimensions. The inferior part of the anatomical neck of the humerus is very slightly marked, and is continued in a smooth declivity slightly con- cave from above downwards, into the shaft of the bone. Its superior part is more distinct, and the depth of the groove here seems in a great degree owing to the prominence of two bony protuberances, one situated anteriorly, called the lesser tuberosity, and the other pos- teriorly, denominated the greater tuberosity. The lesser tuberosity of the humerus (tuber- culum minus) is somewhat conical in shape, and inferiorly it ends in a smooth, rounded bony ridge (spina tuberculi minoris), which extends downwards and inwards, gradually diminishing in prominence till it is lost in the shaft of the bone at the inner part of its ante- rior surface. The lesser tuberosity gives in- sertion to the tendon of the subscapulars muscle, and the ridge or spine last described forms the anterior and internal boundary of the bicipital groove. The greater tuberosity (tuberculum majus, externum s. posterius) forms a considerable prominence on the upper and outer part of the humerus, being the most external part in that situation and easily to be felt under the integuments. Superiorly the constriction cor- responding to the anatomical neck separates it from the head of the humerus; inferiorly it is continued into and gradually lost in the shaft of the bone at its outer part. A very distinct and prominent ridge (spina tuberculi majoris) is continued from its anterior extremity down- wards and inclining very slightly inwards, which terminates about the middle of the an- terior surface of the bone, just internal to the deltoid ridge. This ridge is most prominent but smooth in its upper third, in its inferior two-thirds it is less prominent but rough; it forms the posterior boundary of the bicipital groove. On the greater tuberosity three dis- tinct surfaces are marked, to the anterior of which the supra-spinatus muscle is attached, to the middle the infra-spinatus, and to the posterior the teres minor. The bicipital groove commences above be- tween the two tuberosities, and passes down- wards and slightly inwards, bounded before and behind by the spines which proceed from those tubercles. This groove, very distinct at its commencement, ceases to be so a little above the termination of the superior third ; in the recent state it is lined by the tendinous expansion of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles, and lodges the tendon of the biceps muscle, whence its name. From the anatomical neck the bone gra- dually tapers down and becomes more cylin- drical in its form; this upper portion is, for the convenience of description, distinguished by the name of surgical neck of the humerus. The middle third of the shaft of the bone is prismatic in form ; the external spine whicli commences at the greater tuberosity is continued down, forming a prominent ridge all down the front of the bone to the termination of its flattened inferior third. The outer part of the middle third of the humerus is remarkable for the rough surface into which the deltoid muscle is inserted, the deltoid ridge, situated nearer the upper than the lower part of this portion, and directed downwards and very slightly forwards. The inner part of the middle third presents a smooth, flattened, and inclined surface, which is continued down in this form to within a very short distance of the inferior extremity of the bone. The posterior surface is rounded and very smooth.