522 MUSCLES OF THE HAND. these origins are separated by a fibrous arch, through which the radial artery passes ; they .ire large and fleshy, and soon unite, forming a triangular flattened muscle, which is inserted into the external side of the first phalanx. The insertion of the other muscles are, the two mid- dle into either side of the first phalanx; they are called the prior and posterior medii; and the last, or posterior annularis, into the inter- nal side of the ring-finger. Relations.—Posteriorly they correspond to the extensor tendons and skin ; anteriorly they appear beside the palmar interossei, from which they are separated by a strong septum derived from the deep palmar aponeurosis. Their other relations are the same as the palmar interossei. The first, the abductor indicis, corresponds an- teriorly to the adductor pollicis and part of the flexor brevis, which it crosses at right angles ; its inferior and external margin is subcuta- neous. Use.—They are all abductors of the fingers from the axis of the hand, and by reason of their insertion into the extensor tendons, act best when the hand is extended. The same may be said of the palmar. Before we enter on the general uses of this complex muscular apparatus, it would be well to remark that the proper muscles of the thumb and little finger appear to be nothing more than exaggerated and multiplied lumbricales and in- terossei. We may, in this light, view the short flexor of the thumb as the first lumbricalis, its abductor and opponens as a dorsal interosseus, while its adductor would represent a palmar interosseous muscle; again, as regards the little finger, its abductor and short flexor together personate a dorsal interosseus, while its adduc- tor would be but an internal or palmar inter- osseous. Their principal use is, by acting on the carpo-metacarpal articulations of the thumb and little finger, which enjoy freer motion than the intermediate ones, especially that of the thumb, to oppose these extreme points of the hand to each other, more or less increasing its concavity, and thereby giving a firmer grasp, inasmuch as they adapt the cavity of the palm to the volume of the body grasped. The great use of this opposable faculty of the thumb (which action is the peculiar characte- ristic of the hand as distinguishing it from the foot) may be shewn by firmly clenching the fist, when the thumb, by its combined powers of opposition and flexion, is made to overlap the fore and middle, and in some the third fingers, pressing them firmly against the palm, while, at the same time, the thenar eminence is thrown forwards and inwards, meeting them in the palm, and by abutting against counteracts their tendency to fly open when a blow is struck, acting at the same time as a cushion to deaden the violence of the shock. We here see, also, the flexion of the fingers modified by the radial interossei and lumbricales, which, by their action, throw the fingers radiad, so as to bring the three outer ones to abut against the thenar eminence; the little finger is pro- tected, in like manner, by the hypothenar, which is thrown forwards and outwards. The converse modification of the flexion of the fingers by means of the ulnar interossei may be seen in the action of the left hand of a fiddler, where the fingers are flexed and pointed ulnad to run up the scale. It only remains for us to give a summary view of the muscles, extrinsic and intrinsic, concerned in the motions of the hand. These motions are flexion, extension, adduction or motion ulnad, abduction or motion radiad. First, the flexors of the wrist are six. 1. Flexor longus pollicis ; 2 and 3, flexor sub- limis et profundus ; 4, palmaris longus ; 5, flexor carpi radialis; 6, flexor carpi ulnaris. The extensors are six. 1, Extensor communis; 2, indicator; 3, extensor secundi internodii pollicis; 4 and 5, extensores carpi radiales longior et brevior; 6, extensor carpi ulnaris. The last three of the extensors as well as the last three of the flexors act directly on the wrist; the others act first on the phalanges. These also are the muscles that, in extreme flexion and extension, call into play the motion that exists between the two rows of the carpus, the two former extending, the three latter flexing the second row upon the first. The adductors are five. 1, Extensor carpi ulnaris ; 2, extensor communis ; 3, flexor carpi ulnaris ; 4, sublimis ; 5, profundus. The abductors are also five. 1 and 2, Ex- tensores ossis metacarpi et primi internodii pollicis; 3 and 4, extensores carpi radiales longior et brevior ; 5, flexor carpi radialis. The following table is intended to exhibit at one view the motions of which the lingers are capable, and the muscles which effect them. The movements of the fingers are— 1. Flexion performed by nine. Flexor longus pollicis. Flexor sublimis. Flexor profundus. Three internal lumbricales. Three interossei interni. 2. Extension by eight. Three extensores pollicis. Extensor communis. Indicator. Three internal dorsal interossei. 3. Adduction by seven. Three adductor, flexor brevis, and oppo- nens pollicis. Abductor minimi digiti. Three interossei, viz. posterior indicis, posterior medii, posterior annularis. 4. Abduction by eleven. Abductor pollicis. Adductor et opponens minimi digiti. Four lumbricales. Four interossei, viz. abductor indicis, prior medii, prior annularis, interosseus au- ricularis. We thus see that the hand is furnished with no less than thirty-three muscles, each capable of acting either singly or in conjunction with others. The most powerful of these are the flexois and opposers, both performing actions, as we have seen, peculiarly adapted for the pre- hension and retention of bodies. But there is yet another function in which