ENTOZOA. 131 Digestive organs.—We have already alluded to the two leading modifications of the ali- mentary canal, on which the binary division of the Entozoa of Rudolphi is founded, viz. into Sterelmintha or those in which the nu- trient tubes, without anal outlet, are simply excavated in the general parenchyma, and into the Cazlelmintha, in which an intestinal canal, with proper parietes, floats in a distinct ab- dominal cavity, and has a separate outlet for the excrements. In both these divisions the mouth is variously modified, so as to afford zoological characters for the subordinate groups; and the alimentary canal itself in the Sterelmintha presents several important differences of structure. Cystica.—The Cystic worms are generally gifted, as in the species (Cysticercivs cellulose) which occasionally infests the human subject, with an uncinated proboscis for adhering to and irritating, and four suctorious mouths for ab- sorbing the fluid secreted by, the adventitious cyst in which they are lodged. In the larger Cysticerci lateral canals may be traced from the suctorious pores extending down the body towards the terminal cyst, but they appear not to terminate in that cavity, the fluid of which is more probably the result of secretion or endosmosis. We cannot, however, partici- pate in the opinion of Rudolphi,* that the retracted head derives nutriment from the surrounding fluid of the caudal vesicle, for if that were the case, where would be the neces- sity for an armed rostellum in addition to the absorbent pores? The frequency with which the Cysticerci are found with the head so retracted, may be attributed to the in- stinctive action arising from the stimulus of diminished temperature and other changes in the surrounding parts occasioned by the death of the animal in which the hydatid has been developed. Cestoidea.—In the Ccstoidea the digestive apparatus commences for the most part by two or four oral apertures, to which, in many spe- cies (the Tania armata), a central uncinated proboscis is superadded, as in the Cysticerci. Sometimes the mouths are in the form of oblong pits or fossa?, as in the Botliriocephalus lotus, and the allied species grouped under the same gene- ric name; or they have the structure of circular suctorious discs, as in the Tania solium, and othertrue Tania.f In both genera two alimen- tary canals are continued backwards in a straight line near the lateral margins of the body (e, e, . " Osculis lamen canalihusque dictis omnem aquae vim vesica caudali collectam parari potuisse vix credibile, sed hac parata vermem eandem absorbere ideoque semper fere caput liuic immissum offerre, longe aliam vero fluidi advehendi viam dari, plurima suadent."— Hist. Entoz. i. p. 279. t Many beautiful preparations, showing the nutrient canals of the Tania solium injected with coloured size and quicksilver, are preserved in the Hunterian collection, (see Nos. 843, 844, 845.) These were prepared, during the life-time of John Hunter, and were presented to that great anato- mist by Sir Anthony Carlisle, by whom they are described in the ' Observations upon the Struc- ture and (Economy of Taeniae,' in the second vo- lume of the Linnscan Transactions, (1794). Jig. 90), and are united by transverse canals (fi.fi Jig-W) passing across the posterior margins of the segments. These connecting canals are relatively wider in the Tania solium than in the Bothriocephalus latus, their size apparently depending on the length of the segments, which is much greater in the former than the latter. Neither the transverse nor the longi- tudinal vessels undergo any partial dilatations. The chief point at issue respecting the digestive organs of the Tape-worms is, whether the nu- triment is imbibed by them through the pores which occur at the sides or margins of each joint, or whether the entire body is dependent for its nutriment upon the anterior mouths from which the lateral canals commence. The re- sults of numerous examinations, which I have made with this view, both on Bothriocephali* and Taeniae, have uniformly corresponded with those of Rudolphi, and I entirely subscribe to the opinion of that experienced helminthologist, that the marginal or lateral orifices of the seg- ments are exclusively the outlets of the gene- rative organs. In some species of Tape-worm, as the Tania sphanocephalus, in which no ovaria have been detected, there has been a corresponding ab- sence both of lateral and marginal pores, while the lateral longitudinal canals have been pre- sent and of the ordinary size. In the Tania solium the generative pores being placed at one or other of the lateral margins of the seg- ments, the ducts of the ovary and testis (g, h, Jig. 90) cross the longitudinal canal of that side, and give rise to a deceptive appearance, as if a short tube were continued from the alimentary canal to the pore. But in the Bothriocephalus latus and Bothriocephalus Pythonis the generative pores open upon the middle of one of the surfaces of each segment, and in these it is plain that the lateral nu- trient vessels have no communication with the central pores. The orifices of the segments, in short, correspond with the modifications of the generative apparatus, while the nutrient canals undergo no corresponding change. Nutrition may be assisted by superficial ab- sorption ; and, as Rudolphi suggests,! the se- parated segments may for a short time imbibe nutriment by the open orifices of the broken canals ; but setting aside cutaneous absorption and the more problematical action of the rup- * Principally on that species which infests the intestines of the large serpent commonly exhibited in this country the Python Tigris, Dand. And we invite the attention of comparative anatomists interested in this point to an injected preparation of one of these worms in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, No. 846 A. t " Al. Olfers (de veget. et anim. p. 35) articulos TamicB singulos ope absorptionis cutanea? perparum, maxime autem ope osculi marginalis nutriri contendit, sed osculum hoc vere ad genitalia pertinpre in capite insequente evincam. Si cl. vir absorptionem cutaneam minoris sestumat, hac de re non litigabo, sed res alio modo explicari potest. Annon enim ad vasa linearia nutneniia, utrinque longitudinaliter decurrentia, si articulus solutus est, in utroque ejus fine utrinque hiantia, absorbendi ofncium deferri posset."—Synops. Entoz. p. 585. K 2