ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HEART. 043* svrface, to fat. A mere layer of red muscular structure covered the internal and external parts of the heart and the columns earner : within every spot was fatty matter."* Rupture, of the heart.—A degenerate con- dition of the muscular tissue is the most com- mon cause of rupture of the heart: the states last described are those in which it most fre- quently occurs; they correspond to the senile softening of Blaud :f the wall literally gives way at a certain point, and a laceration fre- quently to a very trifling extent is found in that situation on examination after death : in some cases, moreover, several ruptures are found in the wall of the same cavity, and sometimes the rupture is very extensive, or it is large in- ternally and small externally, or vice versa. Any of the cavities may afford examples of this form of rupture, but the left ventricle is by far the most frequent seat of it, as may be understood from the following numerical state- ment by Ollivier: " out of forty-nine cases the rupture was seated in the left ventricle in thirty- four, in the right ventricle in eight, in the left auricle in three, and in two cases the ventricles presented several ruptures. In these cases the apex was the situation of the rupture in nine; in the rest the rupture took place near the base. Rupture, however, may occur in a healthy state of the organ, from violent bodily exertion; of this a remarkable example was afforded in the case of one of Whitbread's draymen, who in attempting to raise a butt of porter, fell dead, from a large laceration of the left ventricle, the structure of which was per- fectly healthy. I had lately an opportunity of examining the preparation of this heart in the Museum of Guy's Hospital. Rupture is also found to ensue upon abscess in the heart, or upon ulceration and conse- quent perforation; it is sometimes caused by dilatation of it, and sometimes by contraction of one or more of the orifices. Partial rupture may occur, i. e. the external fibres may be ruptured to a certain depth, without penetrating the cavity, or the internal ones may be similarly torn, the exterior being unaffected. A more remarkable kind of par- tial rupture is that in which the carnese co- lumns or chorda; tendinea? are engaged. Cases of this form of rupture seem to have been detailed first by Corvisart, who attributed the rupture to violent efforts. Other cases have been subsequently recorded by Cheyne, Adams, and Townsend. In Dr. Cheyne's case, " the internal surface of the left ventricle was much inflamed, several irregular excrescences were attached to the mitral and semilunar valves. The chorda? tendinea?, which connected the larger portion of the mitral valve to the wall of the left ventricle, were torn off just at the point of their insertion into the edge of the valve; four of these ruptured tendons hung loose into the ventricle."! * Croonian Lectures on the Heart, p. 32. t bland, Bibl. Med. an. 1820. X Dublin Hosp. Rep. vol. iv. On the subject of rupture of the heart the reader may consult Olli- MoRBID STATES OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE HEART. I. Morbid slates of the pericardium.—1. Pe- ricarditis. The morbid changes of the serous pericardium which most frequently come under the notice of the anatomist, are those which are consequent upon inflammation. What the alterations are which indicate the first onset of inflammatory action it is not easy to determine precisely, as the opportunities of inspecting the parts in this early stage of peri- carditis are extremely rare. The following, however, may be stated as indicative of the earliest period of pericarditis. The natural exhalation becomes diminished or totally suppressed, and consequently the surfaces of the membrane do not present their usual moist appearance; the visceral layer of the pericar- dium is not so transparent as in the natural state, and several red points, which to the naked eye appear like extravasations of blood, are manifested on a considerable portion of the membrane. These spots, however, are not extravasations, but when examined with a lens, they are seen to be produced by a close net- work of extremely minute capillary vessels; as inflammation advances these spots increase in number, neighbouring ones coalesce, a more or less diffused redness is produced, as well from vessels subjacent to, as in the membrane, the membrane becomes less and less transparent, and now an exudation is distinctly formed on its surface of a very soft semifluid material (co- agulable lymph), which, on looking carefully along the inflamed surface, is seen to be de- veloped in minute granules. The further pro- gress of the disease is characterised by the increased deposition of this plastic material, and the effusion of a straw-coloured serous fluid into the bag of the pericardium. These morbid changes, of course, vary in extent; but it is not uncommon to find them extending over the greatest part or even the whole heart, so that in some cases a second complete enve- lope is formed for the heart between the visce- ral and parietal layers of the serous pericar- dium ; on the other hand a very circumscribed spot may be occupied by these changes, not ex- ceeding a half-crown or a crown piece in circumfe- rence ; but we seldom or never have opportu- nities of seeing the disease on this limited scale in so early a stage, and judge of its occurrence only from the existence of alterations which may justly be regarded as its sequela?. Certain varieties are observed as regards the form assumed by the lymph, and the quantity of the fluid effused in this disease. The lymph varies in its characters ; almost always depo- sited in a membranous form, it is sometimes quite smooth and uniform on its free sur- face ; at other times it is rough, and hangs in flocculi into the fluid contained in the sac of the pericardium ; again it presents a reticulate appearance, compared by Corvisart, Laennec, and Bertin, to the inner surface of the second vicr's article (Cceur Rupture) in Diet, de Med., Townsend in Cyclop. Pract. Med. vol. iv. p. 630., and Bouillaud's work. 2 u 2