DIGESTION. 17 not acted upon, thus proving decisively that the effect was not produced by a mere mecha- nical operation* The results of these experi- ments have been confirmed by some remark- able facts, which bear still more directly upon the point under investigation, where certain in- dividuals have had preternatural openings made into the stomach, either from accident or dis- ease, while the functions of the part appear to have been but little, if at all, impaired. By this means the operation that is going forwards in this organ may be minutely watched in all its various stages, and we are enabled to ob- serve the change which the food undergoes from the time that it enters the stomach until it passes from the pylorus, and to compare the changes which the different kinds of food ex- perience during the progress of the whole mass. A case of this kind is related by Circaud, where an individual lived many years with a fistulous opening into the stomach ;f but a much more remarkable case of the same de- scription has been lately communicated by Dr. Beaumont. The individual in question was wounded, early in life, by a shot in the epigas- tric region, which perforated the stomach. After some time the wounded part healed, with the exception of an aperture two and a half inches in diameter, which communicated with the stomach. He lived many years in this state, in perfect health and vigour, so as to be capable of following a laborious occupation, while the fistulous opening still remained. Under these circumstances he was made the subject of experiment by Dr. Beaumont, who for the space of eight years continued his ob- servations, with great assiduity and minuteness, on the action of the stomach both in its ordi- nary state, and when subjected to different con- ditions, for the immediate purpose of the expe- riment. We may remark generally, that the results of the experiments confirm those of Spallanzani in their most essential particulars, and at the same time enable us to decide upon some points which were left imperfect by that naturalist.I Among the more important points respecting the formation of chyme, which appear to be confirmed by the experiments of Dr. Beau- mont, are the following; that the different kinds of aliment all require to undergo the same process, by means of the gastric fluid, in order to be reduced into chyme; that the rapidity of the process differs considerably according to the delicacy of their natural tex- ture or the degree of their mechanical division; that the saliva is of no specific use in the con- version of aliment into chyme; that animal substances are more easily converted into chyme than vegetables; and that oily sub- stances, although they contain a large quantity * Reaumur, Med. Acad, pour 1752, p. 266 et seq. and p. 461 et seq. ; Stevens, De Alim. Concoct, cap. xii. ex. 1 ... 9 and 11 . . .23; Spallanzani, Exp&r. sur la Digest, passim ; Blumenbach, Inst. Physiol. §358,9 ; Monro (Tert.) Elem. v. i. p. 532. J- Journ. de Phys. t. liii. p. 156, 7. X Beaumont on the Gastric Juice and on Diges- tion, sect. 1, 5. VOL. II. of nutriment, are comparatively difficult of digestion.* We must next inquire into the physical and chemical properties of the gastric juice, the fluid secreted from the interior of the stomach, by which the change in the aliment, that we have been describing, is produced. Since the publication of Reaumur's experiments, about the middle of the last century, the general opinion among physiologists and chemists has been, that the gastric juice possesses specific properties, which enable it to dissolve or com- bine with the aliment; and many experiments have been performed for the purpose of ascer- taining the chemical nature of the secretion, so as to account for the powerful action which it appears to possess over such a great variety of substances. Besides the more general ac- count which we have of the gastric juice by Boerhaave, Haller, and Reaumur,f it was made the subject of an elaborate series of expe- riments by Spallanzani;]: it was also analyzed by Scopoli§ and by Carminati,|[ and has been lately examined by Dr. Prout,5[ and by MM. Tiedemann and Gmelin.** The result is, upon the whole, rather unsatisfactory, or at least it may be said, that nothing has been detected in the fluid, which seems to account for or explain the powerful action which it exercises on the alimentary substances subjected to its influence.ft All that we learn is, that the gastric juice contains certain saline substances in small quantity, more especially the muriate of soda, in common with the other animal fluids, but that it does not differ essentially, in its chemical properties, from saliva, or from the secretions of mucous membranes gene- rally. Dr. Prout indeed informs us, that a quantity of muriatic acid is always present in the stomach during digestion ;}} but as there does not seem to be any decisive evidence of its appearance previously to the introduction of the food into the stomach, we ought probably rather to consider it as developed by the pro- cess of digestion, than as entering into the constitution of the gastric juice; nor indeed, if it were so, are we able to explain the mode in which it operates in converting aliment into chyme.§§ This apparent difficulty in account- ing for the mode in which chyme is formed by the gastric juice, and the supposed inadequacy * Beaumont, page 275 . . 8 et alibi. t Boerhaave, Praelect. § 77 et seq.; Haller, El. Phys. xix. 1. 15. et 4. 20; Reaumur, Mem. Acad, pour 1752, p. 480, 495. t Ut supra, § 81 et seq. 145, 185, 192. § In Spallanzani, § 244. || Jour. Phys. t. xxiv. p. 168 et seq. if Ann. Phil. v. xiii. p. 13. ** Rechcrchcs sur la Digestion, trad, par Jour- dan. tt Henry's Chem. v. ii. p. 410, 1. it Phil. Trans, for 1824, p. 45 et seq. The presence of acid in the stomach, in its healthy state, has been made the subject of in- quiry by many experimentalists, and of much con- troversy ; the result is that the older physiologists generally denied its existence, except in morbid states of the stomach, while many of the most eminent modern physiologists believe it to be always present, and indeed regard it as an esscn- C