FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. 298 of separation between the stylo-glossus and the genio-glossus; they traverse the substance of the tongue toward its superior surface and mar- gin, and run along its inferior surface, above the mucous membrane, toward its extremity; as they proceed they subdivide, and thus re- sults a great number of filaments, the course of which through the tongue is remarkable; they appear not to terminate, any of them, in the substance of it, but they traverse it as long, slender, single filaments, unconnected with its structure until they approach its superior sur- face, when they break up into pencils (to adopt the phrase used) of still more delicate filaments, which may be followed into the mu- cous membrane; the posterior filaments of the posterior branch insinuate themselves internal to the hyoglossus, and reach as far back as the foramen coecum; the filaments of the anterior are distributed to the extremity of the tongue, and are continued between the under surface of it and the mucous membrane very near to the tip, the substance of which they then tra- verse in order to reach its superior aspect and margin : they thus supply the mucous mem- brane of the organ upon its superior and lateral parts, from the foramen ccecum to its point. Ganglion of the fijtk nerve (Ganglion semilunare Gasseri). See Jig. 140, 9. — The ganglion of the fifth nerve is a body of crescentic form, a cineritious colour, and firm consistence. It presents two surfaces, two margins, and two extremities: its surfaces are both slightly pro- minent, and are directed one upward, outward, and forward, the other downward, inward, and backward; they are also, the former con- cave and the latter convex longitudinally, the ganglion being somewhat curved upon itself in the same direction : they are both for the most part adherent to the lamina? of dura mater, which form the chamber in which the gan- glion is contained; but it is not uncommon to find the arachnoid membrane prolonged beneath it, so that its inferior surface in such instances is free; the superior corresponds to the cranial cavity in its middle fossa, being excluded from it only by the dura mater; the inferior rests, with the intervention of dura mater also, upon the petrous portion of the temporal bone, the great ala of the sphenoid, and against the outer side of the cavernous sinus. The margins of the ganglion are di- rected one forward and downward, the other backward and upward ; the anterior is convex, and to it are attached the three great trunks, which compose the ganglionic portion of the nerve in its third stage; the posterior is con- cave and presents through its entire length a deep groove, into which the fasciculi of the ganglionic packet of the nerve are received. The extremities are obtuse, and project beyond the packet at either side; they are situate re- latively, one superior, internal, and anterior to the other. When the ganglion is in situ, the chord of the arch which it forms is six or seven lines long; Niemeyer has sometimes found it amount to from nine to ten:* its width * De origine pans quinti nervorum cerebri mono- graphia, Halae, 1812. is about two lines, and its thickness, according to the part, from half a line to a line. Its colour and appearance vary much according to the subject: the former is always of a cine- ritious tint of different degrees of intensity ; when the subject is wasted, flabby, or anasar- cous, it is pale or grey, while, if the subject have been robust and corpulent, it is of a deep brown colour: in the former case also a plexi- form arrangement is more perceptible, whereas in the latter the ganglion seems composed of two concentric arcs, an anterior of lighter colour and manifestly plexiform character, and a posterior of very deep colour and apparently homogeneous indeterminate texture, devoid al- together of the plexiform appearance. A particular inquiry into the structure and probable function of the ganglion of the fifth nerve would involve that of the cerebro-spinal ganglia in general, and will be better post- poned to another occasion : it will suffice for the present to state that according to both Monro and Scarpa, they are composed in part of nervous chords, and in part by a soft grey or brown substance, which fills the intervals between the nervous filaments, and which according to the former resembles the cortical matter of the brain, while in the opinion of the latter it is a cellular texture filled by a matter, which varies in character according to the subject; thus he states that he has found it fatty in fat and watery in anasar- cous subjects. 2. That nervous filaments can be traced through them without interruption from the nerves situate above to those situate below the ganglion, which opinion is objected to by Niemeyer, who compares the connection of the former with the ganglion to that of the foetal and maternal portions of the placenta; but inspection suffices to satisfy one that this idea of Niemeyer is incorrect; for whether additional filaments be furnished or not by the ganglion, the continuity of filaments above and below it is evident even in the human subject, and is still more manifest in other animals: in the horse it is easily seen, par- ticularly after a section of the ganglion. The question whether the ganglion receives filaments from the sympathetic system has been a subject of dispute among anatomists. The elder Meckel* denies the existence of any filaments of connection between the sympa- thetic and the fifth nerve, while within the fibrous chamber or while situate by the cavern- ous sinus; and others also, among whom are Eustachius, Haller, Albinus, and Morgagni, are of the same opinion ; but later investiga- tions have put it beyond doubt that such a communication does exist. Bockf has de- scribed filaments of the sympathetic united to the trunk of the fifth, before the formation of the Gasserian ganglion, and which join chiefly the fasciculi of the trunk, from which the ophthalmic nerve originates. And Arnold * Scriptores Neurologici Minores, torn. i. t Beschreibung des funften Nervenpaares und seiner Verbindung mit andern Nerven, vorzuglich mlt dem Gangliensystem, 1817.