REGIONS OF THE FOOT. 354 to a considerable degree. The sensibility of this part of the integuments is not at all in relation to its apparent want of delicacy in structure; no part of the body possesses a covering more acutely sensitive. The effects of pricking, of titillation, of cold or heat applied to the sole of the foot, exemplify this. Its sympathies also are as remarkable for their liveliness as for their extent. Not even the arm-pits or sides of the ribs are at all equal to it in this respect. The bladder, the urethra, the stomach and intestines, in fact almost all the mucous membranes, together with the whole voluntary system of nerves, and through them the whole system of voluntary muscles, may be said especially to sympathize with and to be influenced by this one part. Of this no one can doubt when we see the effects of sudden cold applied to it in relaxing spasm of the urethra or bowels, in checking vomiting, or in rousing the whole nervous and muscular system during fainting, &c. The effect also of hot applications of stimulants and irritants applied to this part familiarly illustrate its ex- tensive sympathies. The most sensitive part of the sole is the hollow, that part where the cuticle is least dense. When the cutis is removed, we expose a stratum of cellular tissue remarkable for its density and toughness, and for the granular fat witli which its cells are filled; it lies imme- diately under the true skin, and over the plantar fascia. We may here observe that a similar integument, and the same kind of cel- lular web under it, is spread over the heel, and, from the peculiarity of its texture, is probably more likely to inflame under the effects of pressure than the skin of other parts of the body ; at any rate, it very frequently does inflame, and even slough, when long subjected to pressure ; and inattention to this point is often the source of great misery in the treatment of fractures and dislocations of the lower extremity. The heel resting upon some hard portion of the apparatus often so torments the patient as to be a serious impedi- ment to the successful treatment of the case. The fascia plantaris demands our particular attention. It is a strong tendinous structure forming a covering to the muscles and impor- tant structures of the sole. It is very thick and dense at its posterior part, and becomes thinner, though still of the same consistence, at the anterior part. The cellular web just mentioned strongly adheres to it externally, while the muscles which it covers are not only adherent to its inner side, but many of their fibres arise directly from it. It not only forms a layer of separation between these muscles and the more external parts, but it sends pro- cesses of a similar tendinous structure between the principal muscles, which also afford origin to many of their fibres. It divides itself into three portions, one covering each of the three principal groups of muscles found here. These three portions are, however, united behind where they arise in common from the under projecting part of the os calcis, while ante- riorly the layer becomes quite incomplete from the subdivision into five slips, each of these again splitting to pass to be fixed into each side of the heads of the metatarsal bones. The situation, structure, and connexions of this fascia, of the dense stratum of cellular tissue, and of the peculiar skin covering this, are highly important to the surgeon. The know- ledge of these points teaches why phlegmonous inflammation must be difficult of treatment, and often dangerous in its results, whether it occurs immediately under the skin or under the fascia, but particularly in the latter situa- tion, the dense unyielding structure of which prevents the swelling from pressing outward, thus greatly aggravating the pain and irritation, and when matter has formed, equally prevents its pointing outwards, and calls for the early application of the lancet to give it free vent, and thus prevent its spreading along the foot. The structure of the parts just described is, as far as it goes, an objection to the partial ampu- tation of the foot recommended by Chopart, wherein the flap is formed from these parts in the sole, together with the muscles and tendons found there. But this objection is by no means fatal to operations upon these parts, which have often been successfully performed, and when they are so, often give a limb much more useful than a wooden one. We now come to the deep-seated parts of the foot. These consist, 1. of the muscles and tendons; 2. of veins and arteries ; 3. of nerves; 4. of absorbents. The muscles and tendons compose three principal groups des- tined to accomplish the movements of the great toe, of the three middle toes, and of the little toe, and according to their destination and use, so is their situation in the sole. On the inner side the abductor, the adductor, the flexor brevis, and tendon of the flexor longus pollicis form a pretty considerable mass, and have a separate slip of the fascia plantaris lying under them, in contact with the most superficial of them, viz. the abductor. On the outer or fibular side of the sole, a similar mass of muscles, but smaller, lie underneath the metatarsal bone of the little toe, composed also of an abductor and a short flexor, while one slip both from the long and short common flexors joins them anteriorly. The space be- tween these two masses of muscles is occupied, most superficially, and immediately in contact with the plantar fascia, by the flexor brevis digitorum, next by the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, accompanied by their acces- sories ; posteriorly, the accessories or massa carnea Jacobi Sylvii; and anteriorly, the lum- bricales, while deeper still than all there are the interossei interni. Amidst this number of small muscles, the plantar arteries take their course in the follow- ing manner. The posterior tibial artery, as we have elsewhere seen (vide Ankle-joint, Regions of), passing down behind the inner malleolus, gets into the hollow of the os calcis, lying pretty close to this bone, and covered only by the integuments, cellular tissue, and fascia. It now passes between the origins of the adductor pollicis, and in doing