871 INSECTA. spiracultc, or breathing holes. These are situ- ated in the true larva, or caterpillar, in the second, fifth, sixth, and following segments to the twelfth. This is the general structure of the larva, but there are modifications of it in every particular. Thus, in the larva of those Ht/menopterous insects which are entirely desti- tute of feet, there are fourteen distinct segments in the body, besides an anal tubercle, and ten spiraculae on each side (Jig. 356). These are Fig. 356. Fig. 357. Lateral view. Inferior view. Larva of Vespa crabro, magnified. situated in the second, third, fourth, and remain- ing segments to the twelfth, so that in these in- sects the thoracic portion of the body contains an additional spiracle, while the abdomen has one additional segment. This fact is particularly interesting from the circumstance of its appa- rently disturbing the opinions hitherto advocated by naturalists respecting the normal number of segments, which has been thought to be con- stantly thirteen in this class of invertebrata, while it derivesa greater importance from theadditional segment belonging to the abdomen, as we shall hereafter prove. This additional number of segments, as constantly occurring in apodal Hymenoptera, was first pointed out by Mr. Westwood,* and has been observed by ourselves in every instance in the larvae of Vespa Crabro, (jig. 356.) Bomb us terrcstris, Anthophora return, Ichneumon Atropos, and other species. In the common maggots or larvae of the flesh- flies, Muscidte, the body is elongated, and tapering at its anterior extremity, and con- sists of fourteen segments.f In the larva of a species of Musca which infests bacon and other dried provisions, and in that of the common flesh-fly, Musca vomitoria, we have distinctly * Trans. Ent. Soc. vol. ii. p. 124. t Fifteen, if wc include the anterior portion of the third segment, which appears like a distinct part. Since these observations have been in print the XII. and XIII. Parts of Mr. Wcstwood's " In- troduction " have been published, and it is grati- fying to observe that he has found fifteen segments, including the head, in th<i larvu of OdynerilS, Col- letes, and Anthidium. noticed fourteen (fig. 358). The first four of Fig. 358. A, Apodal larva of Sfusca; B, headof do.:,a, mandi- bular hooks ; b, the anterior bronchia; c, the labium ; C, organs of respiration; D, a portion of the dorsal vessel. these appear to constitute the head of the larva, since in them are contained the palpi and oral apparatus, besides two remarkable orange- coloured organs, which project from the sides of the fourth segment, and on a cursory view appear to be the organs of vision, but are in reality the branchiae of the future pro-thorax (B /;). In the larva of the sheep-bot, (Estrus ovis, which resides for many months in the frontal sinuses and roots of the horns of that animal, there are thirteen segments, but the terminal one is very indistinct, while the an- terior one, which is exceedingly minute, is proved to form a large proportion of the head, by its containing the oral apparatus-, and by the existence in it, at its anterior part, of two very distinct eyes. These larvae respire by means of two sets of branchiated organs, (fig. 358, c) situated at the posterior part of the body, and not by lateral spiracles. The apparently anomalous condition of the head in these insects, like the additional segment in Hymenoptera, is a circumstance of much interest, but is not without its parallel in perfect individuals of other classes, as in Myriapoda, in which the head is most distinctly composed of at least three seg- ments. We must not conclude, however, with Dr. Ratzeburg, as noticed by Mr. West- wood,* that in Hymenoptera the head of the Imago corresponds to the first two segments of the larva, because at the latter period of the larva state, just before the insect becomes * Trans. Ent. Soc. vol. ii. p. 125.