800 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. of the fossa which is normally destined to con- tain the substance called Haversian gland, the shortening of the neck of the femur and depres- sion of the head towards the lesser trochanter, and the ivory deposition on it. In this view Mr. Smith, who had so well described the disease in question, and the hospital surgeons around him, concurred, and Mr. Snow Harris himself quickly became a convert to our views, and we are sa- tisfied from what we observed of his liberality, that we have his full permission to communicate this case in its present form to the profession. The sketch (fig. 315) is taken from the cast of the Fig. 315. Mr. Snow Harris's case. head and neck of the femur presented by Mr. Harris to the College of Surgeons, Dublin. The upper part of the head of the femur was exceed- ingly rough on its surface, and of an oval form from above downwards; the axis of the neck was at right angles with the shaft, and seemed lo run horizontally inwards and backwards, so that the length of the fossa which exists poste- riorly between the corona of the head and the posterior inter-trochanteric line, was in this case less than a quarter of an inch, a fossa which we know naturally measures two inches. In viewing the oval form of the head, we conclude the movement of rotation must have been im- possible ; from the shortening of the neck pos- teriorly, we can infer that the toe and foot must have been greatly everted, and from the depres- sion of the head, to the level of the trochanter, the femur must have been nearly one inch shorter than the other. The lamented indivi- dual had not suffered from the disease more than ten years, so that the morbid appearances were not to the same amount as we are accus- tomed to see as the result of this very slow dis- ease. The following case is that of an individual who has been, to the writer's knowledge, suffer- ing for many years under this disease. Patrick Macken, now- aged seventy-seven years, was brought up as a postilion and groom, but for the last seventeen years has been quite unfit for service in consequence of his having been afflicted with a very severe pain in his right hip ; from the first attack of which he be- came lame, and ever since the lameness has been slowly but gradually increasing. In every Fig. 316. Chronic rheumatic arthritis of tlie Hip. other respect his health is excellent, except that he has some wandering rheumatic pains in other joints, particularly in the right shoulder. Hewalkswith great labour and pain, and now requires the assistance of a stick in each hand (Jig. 316); in the morning his movements are stiff and confined, but they become freer on exercise; in the evening of a day he has walked much, the pain and stiffness are worse and increased in propor- tion to the excess of exercise and labour he had undergone in the day. While he remains in bed he rests on the affected hip, and suffers no pain whatever except he suddenly turns himself in- cautiously. As soon as he gets up and throws his entire weight on the diseased hip-joint, the pain commences; if asked in what particular part of the joint he feels most suffering, he points to the back part of the great trochanter and to a point which corresponds to the situation of the lesser trochanter; he says the pain shoots from these points down the front of the thigh to the knee. These pains are sometimes more severe, and sometimes less, without his being able to as- sign any cause for these alterations, and he can- not observe that the state of the weather has any influence on them whatever. As he stands at rest, he throws the weight of his body on the left or unaffected limb,