209 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. be, the data, from which it is professedly drawn, may be reasonably objected to. In the first place the volume of the organ cannot be assumed as being alone the measure of that of the nerve supplying it • the degree of ner- vous endowment, whether general or special, which the organ enjoys, must be also taken into account; and in the second, the extent of the organs of the senses cannot be admitted as a measure of the volume of the fifth nerve, which is not connected with them all; thus the greater part of the organs of touch is inde- pendent of that nerve. It appears to me that the extent of distribution and amount of endowment conjointly determine the volume of the nerve, and that the latter cannot be inferred a priori. Each nerve is composed of two portions, which are remarkable for particular characters, and have received distinct names; they differ from each other in size, in anatomical disposi- tion, and in function ; one of them, larger than the other, is provided with a ganglion, and dif- fers in its distribution ; it also differs in proper- ties, being subservient to sensation ; the other is small, has no ganglion, and is destined to volition; they are hence denominated, the former the larger, the ganglionic or the sentient portion, the latter the smaller, the non-ganglio- nic or the voluntary portion. The distinction of the nerve into two por- tions appears to prevail uniformly throughout the animal series. According to M. Serres, it is to be observed in all the classes of the ver- tebrate animals except the Reptiles; but in them, according to him, the lateral fasciculi * are wanting. The latter assertion, however, is incorrect, the distinction being to be observed as satisfactorily in that class as in any other.f Again, the distinction is not equally remarkable in all; in some it is still more so than in man ; in others it is less; and according to the same authority, it is to be observed among Mam- malia the more easily as we pass from Man to the Rodentia. Among the Cetacea it is divi- ded throughout into two separate fasciculi.}; Each of the two portions of which the nerve consists is a packet containing numerous fas- ciculi, which are again divisible into filaments. The fasciculi, of which the packets are com- posed, are differently circumstanced in different stages of the course of the nerve; in one part they are bound up so closely together that they cannot without difficulty be separated from each other and disentangled, while in another they are but loosely connected and are easily sepa- rated. The two packets are associated together more or less intimately throughout their course ; but inasmuch as they present remarkable varieties in their disposition and mutual relations at dif- ferent parts, it may be advantageous to divide the nerve, through its course, into three por- tions or stages; one from the ganglion to the connexion of the nerve with the brain, which * The name by which he designates the lesser portion of the nerve, t See sketch of fifth nerve in the Turtle,/,?. 143. t Op. cit. may be denominated its internal or encephalic portion; a second from the ganglion to its ulti- mate distribution, its external or peripheric portion ; and, thirdly, its ganglion. Such a distinction may not be free from objection, but being adopted for the convenience of descrip- tion, it possesses at least the recommendation that there exist well-defined points of demar- cation, whether there exist or not any difference in the properties of those several portions. The nerve, in its encephalic portion, is partly within and partly superficial to the substance of the brain. The superficial part is from one-half to three-fourths of an inch in length, of a flattened form, and of very considerable size. It presents a loose fascicular texture, and is enclosed within a prolongation of the arachnoid membrane sent off upon it from the surface of the brain; this prolongation is, as in the case of all those sent upon the vessels or nerves, in their passage from that organ to the parietes of the cranium, a cylindrical sheath, within which the nerve is enclosed; it is at first remarkably loose, but as the nerve recedes from the brain, the membrane invests it more closely, and is continued upon it as far as the ganglion, from which it is reflected to the surface of the canal in which the nerve is contained. In the last particular the disposition of the membrane is subject to variety, for it is at times continued beneath the ganglion, and partially invests the trunks proceeding from this body before it is reflected to line the canal. Throughout this part of the nerve the two packets composing it are connected by cellular structure and vessels, and are enclosed within the prolongation of arachnoid membrane just described; but there does not appear to be any interchange of nervous filaments between them, and they are connected so loosely that they can be separated from each other with great facility. They consist each of numerous fasciculi held together, like the packets themselves, so loosely that the latter can be easily opened out and decomposed. The fasciculi of both packets are irregular in size, some large, others small; those of the larger are for the most part some- what smaller than those of the lesser, but they are much more numerous, amounting, accord- ing to J. F. Meckel,* to thirty or forty; while those of the lesser amount, according to the same authority, only to from nine to fourteen. The fasciculi again are composed of numerous and delicate filaments. The number of the fila- ments is very great, but differently estimated by different authorities; according to Meckel those of the greater packet amount to about one hundred, collected into thirty or forty fasciculi; while, according to Cloquet,f the total number of filaments contained by both packets varies from seventy to one hundred, of which he allots five or six to the smaller, and the remainder to the larger packet. This difference of opinion Meckel explains by sup- posing that fasciculi have been taken for fila- ments and not decomposed, and this appears * Manuel d'Anatomic. t Anatomic Descriptive.