932 INSECTA. mary divisions of the leg, connected together by distinct articulations, and in the most de- veloped condition of the limb are almost in- variably found in every insect. The articu- lation of the coxa with the acetabulum is either ginglymoid, as in the Lamellicornes and many others, or cotyloid, as in most of the Rhinchophora; that between the coxa and trochanter, and between the trochanter and femur, is chiefly of the former kind, which also invariably exists between the femur and tibia, while the articulations of the different joints of the tarsus with one another, and also with the tibia, are almost invariably cotyloid, as in Lucanus, except in the four posterior legs of the Ilydradephaga and other water insects, in which they are usually ginglymoid, because the tarsi of these insects being used chiefly for one purpose, that of swimming, this form of joint appears to be necessary to give greater strength to the tarsus, which is employed to strike the water almost wholly in one direction. Although the number of joints in the tarsus varies in different insects, it is very constant in some families, which are also connected by other circumstances. Thus in a large group of the Coleoptera the tarsi are invariably com- posed of five joints, besides a terminal claw, and upon this character they have been formed into one group, the Pentumera; while in another, the Heteromera, there are constantly five joints in each tarsus of the pro and meso- thoracic legs, but only four in each of the two metathoracic. This tendency to the production of the full number of joints is remarkably shewn in many instances. Thus in a large number of families, Pseudo-tctramera, in which on a cursory examination there appear to be only four joints in each tarsus, it is found on a closer inspection that a fifth joint actually does exist, in the form of a very minute articulation (Jig. 398, A, 4), at the base of the terminal joint in each tarsus. So again in another group, Pseudo-trimera, in which there appear at first to be only three joints in each, it is found that there are actually four (B, 3), the additional joint being, as in the preceding instances, de- veloped at the base of the terminal one, but more distinctly than in the Pseudo-tetramera. This tendency to a reproduction of parts is also shewn in the claws at the extremity of the tarsi. In many Coleoptera, as in the Melolon- th'ulie (C), each claw is double; while in others, as in Lucanus, in which the proper claw is simple, and articulated to the terminal joint of the tarsus, there is also an unguicula or little claw, supported upon a distinct joint, which is articulated separately from the proper claw, with the last joint of the tarsus, in the middle line below the larger one. The variations that occur in the form of the parts of the leg, as in other parts of the body, are directly referable to the habits or necessi- ties of the insect. Thus where the legs are employed chiefly in running, as in the Ci- cindclida, Carabida, Scaritides, and Hurpulidce, they are usually long and slender, particularly the tarsi and tibia;; the coxse are very freely articulated with the body, and the trochanters, particularly those of the hinder pair of legs, are remarkably large. But when, as in the Gyrinidee, Dyticida, and Hydrop/iilida, they are employed entirely in swimming, they are long, as in running insects, and the tarsi of the second and third pairs are flattened and broad like oars, and their margins, apparently to in- crease the breadth of their oar-like form in the water, without the inconvenience of an actual enlargement of the limbs, are densely clothed with long stiff hairs (K). Besides this, the posterior pair, on which the chief action of swimming depends, are much longer than the others, and the tarsi are ciliated to the very articulation of the unguis. The extremity of each tibia is also armed with one or more long- spines, which may assist the insect perhaps in burrowing into the mud. When the legs are employed simply in walking, and the motions of the insect are slow, the legs are all of the same length, and, as in the Chrysomelida, are often covered on the under surface of the tarsi with little hairy cushions, pulvilli. These are generally present also in climbing insects. In the common house-fly, and others of the same genus, instead of hairy cushions the ter- minal joint of each tarsus is furnished near its extremity with two funnel-shaped mem- branous suckers (E), by means of which the insect is enabled to adhere to smooth surfaces, and suspend itself in an inverted position. Each of these is concave, and covered by a membrane, and the manner in which the in- sect attaches itself is by exhausting the air beneath each sucker. The cushions are parti- cularly large in those anomalous insects the Strepsiptera, in which they form a broad heart- shaped surface to each joint of the tarsi (M). They are also present, but in a less perfect form, in some of the running insects, the Cicin- delida and Carabidte, as in Dioryche torta* (Mac'sL.), in which the joints of the anterior tarsi are furnished with a little hairy cushion. But in these families the tarsi of the anterior legs of the males are always enlarged for the same purpose as in the Dyticida, that of more securely attaching themselves to the female. This is also the case in Hydrous, in which the terminal joints of the anterior tarsi {fig. 330, A) are very much dilated. In the Dyticida the first three joints of the anterior tarsi are consolidated together, and form a broad cir- cular disc, covered with many minute funnel- shaped suckers, two or three of which are much larger than the others; in some, as in Hyderodes Shuckardi, Hope,! a New-Holland species (H), all the suckers are of nearly the same size. They exist also in the first three joints of the second pair of tarsi (I). A some- what similar structure exists in the males of some of the sand-wasps, Crubronida (F). It is supposed to be designed for the same purpose as in the Dytkidce. But in those insects it consists of a broad and slightly convex dila- tation of the anterior tibia;, and not of the * Coleoptevist's Manual, Part ii. tab. 2. fig. 4, d. f Op. cit. pi. 3, fig. 5. a. b.