116 ENTOZOA. the immature states of the higher orders of Sterelmintha. Ordo II. Cestoidea, (xscto?, cingulum, uh>s, forma.) Vermes taniaformes, Bandwurmer, Tape-worms. Char. Body elongated, flattened, soft, continuous, or articulated. Head either simply labiate, or provided with pits (bothria) or suctorious orifices (oscula suctoria) either two or four in number, and sometimes with four retractile un- armed or uncinated tentacles. Andro- gynous generative organs. Obs. In this order Rudolphi includes the inarticulated Ligula, with simple heads un- provided with bothria or suckers; a conjunc- tion which detracts from the natural character of the group. Cuvier separates the Ligula from the Tania, and they form exclusively his Order Cestoidea; it must be observed, however, that the passage from the one to the other is rendered very gradual by the traces of bothria, and of generative organs which appear in the higher organized Ligula found in the intestines of Birds; and respecting which Rudolphi hazards the theory that they are the more simple Ligula of Fishes, developed into a higher grade of structure by the warmth and abundant nutri- ment which they meet with in the intestines of Birds which have swallowed the Fishes infested by them. Oudo III. Thematoda, (T^fta, foramen, r^ri/ji.cc.TaS'rii foraminosus.) Vermes suctorii, Saugwurmer, Fluke- worms. Char. Body soft, rounded, or flattened. Head indistinct, with a suctorious fo- ramen ; generally one or more suctorious cavities for adhesion in different parts of the body. Organs of' both sexes in each individual. Obs. This very natural order includes, in the system of Cuvier, many species which do not infest other animals, but are found only in fresh waters; these non-parasitic species form the greater part of the genus Planaria of Muller, (Jig. 80.) Rudolphi, who seems to have sup- posed the Planaria to be of a more simple organization than they truly possess, approxi- mates them to the Ligulas or inarticulated Ces- toidea. Other naturalists, unwilling to asso- ciate the Planaria with the Entozoa, have placed them in the Class Anellida, but the absence of a ganglionic abdominal nervous chord, of a floating intestine, and of an anus, renders such an association very arbitrary. Ordo IV. Acanthocepuala, (a.jca>6a, spina, x.i$a.\-n, caput.) Vermes uncinati, Haeken-wvrmer, Hooked-woi^ms. Char. Body elongated, round, sub-elas- tic. Head with a retractile proboscis armed with recurved spines, (Jig. 74.) Sexual Organs appropriated to distinct individuals, male and female. Obs. This natural group includes the most noxious of the internal parasites; fortunately no species is known to infest the human body. They abound in the lower animals, and present great diversity of form, some being cylindrical and others sacciform. OrdoV. Nematoidea, (iD^a.,Jilum, ei^oj, forma.) Vermes teretes, Rund-w'urmer. Round- worms. Char. Body elongated, rounded, elastic. Mouth variously organized according to the genera. A true intestinal canal terminating by a distinct anus. Sexes distinct. Obs. The internal character which Rudolphi has introduced in his definition of this Order,* viz. that derived from the structure of the ali- mentary canal, its free course through the body, and its termination by a distinct anus at the extremity opposite the mouth, is one of much greater value than any of the external modifica- tions of the body which characterize the four preceding orders. It is, in fact, a trait of or- ganization which is accompanied by corre- sponding modifications of other important parts, more especially the nervous system. The Entozoa which manifest this higher type of structure form in the syslem of Cuvier a group equivalent to that which is constituted by the four other orders combined. The En- tozoa composing the first four orders above characterized have no distinct abdominal cavity or intestine,but the digestive function is carried on in canals without an anal outlet excavated in the parenchymatous substance of the body, and Cuvier accordingly denominates them the Vers intestinaux parenchymateux. The Ne- matoidea, with which Cuvier rightly associates the genus Pentastoma of Rudolphi, and also (but less naturally) the Vers rigidules of La- marck, or Epizoa, he denominates ' Vers intes- tinaux cavitaires.' With respect to the Epizoa, or the external Lerna?an parasites of Fishes, although they agree with the Nematoidea and all inferior Entozoa in the absence of distinct respiratory organs, yet the ciliated natatory members which they possess in the young state, and the exter- nal ovarian appendages of the adult, are cha- racters which raise them above the Entozoa as a distinct and higher class of animals, having intimate relations with the soft-skinned Sipho- nostomous Crustaceans. Limiting, then, the Cavitary Entozoa to the Nematoidea of Rudolphi, and the Genera Lin- guatula, Pentastoma, Porocephulus, and Syn- gamus, which, under the habit of Cestoid or Trematode Worms, mask a higher grade of organization, we propose to regard them as a group equivalent to the Sterelmintha, and to retain for them the name of Ctzlelmintha. The class of Entozoa thus constituted em- braces already the types of three different orders, of which one is formed by the Nema- toidea of Rudolphi, a second has been esta- blished by Diesing for the genus Pentastoma and its congeneric forms, under the name of * " Corpus teres elasticum, tractus intestinalis hinc ore, illinc ano terminatus. Alia individua mascula, alia feminea."Synops. Entox. p. 3.