813 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. has satisfied himself that osseous union some- times takes place, and he has in his own col- lection a most unequivocal specimen of it, which he was kind enough to show me two years ago. The possibility of bony union is now universally acknowledged, but the cure in this way is far less frequent than that by means of a ligamentary connexion."* It does not appear to us that this question is yet so entirely settled as the last writer's obser- vations would lead us to imagine ; although in this city (Dublin) the subject has been care- fully investigated for many years, we do not find our museums yet contain a single speci- men of the intra-capsular fracture united by bone. In Paris we find Cruveilhier, one of the most eminent pathologists in France, ex- pressing himself in the most unreserved manner, that a bony consolidation of the intra-capsular fracture was impossible. Not unaware, as must be supposed, of the eight cases referred to by his pupil, M. Chassaignac,f (amongst which are those of Langstaff, Stanley, and Sir A. Cooper,) Cruveilhier, to whom Chassaignac's memoir is dedicated, thus expresses himself:—"Je suis porte a considerer comme des cas de deforma- tion de la tete et du col, la plupart, si non la totalite desfaits, que Ton invoque gen6ralement pour etablir la reunion de fractures intia-cap- sulaires du col du femur, a. l'aide d'un cal os- seux, le cal est impossible, parceque les frag- menslibres, au milieu de la synovie, ne sont point entoures des tissues charges de la reparation de la solution de continuite." Thus not content with asserting that bony union is impossible, lie further adds that he is convinced from nu- merous pathological observations, and from ex- periments on animals, that the ideas of bony union by means of a first, a provisional callus, and then by means of a final callus, are erro- neous; he is certain that there is but one and the same callus, which passes through different stages of development, until the ossification is complete ; he is of opinion that the ends of the broken bone, no matter how confronted or held together, never are directly united. This union, he thinks, can only take place through the in- tervention of callus, which is always thrown round the bones where fractured, like a clasp or bony ferule ; therefore, he reasons, the cause of the difference between the intra-capsular and extra-capsular fractuffi, with reference to their susceptibility of b(my consolidation, is, that in the first the fragments are as it were abandoned to themselves to effect an union ; here there is no bony ferule or clasp possible, while in the second the fragments are in the same condition as in all other fractures; that is to say, they are surrounded by soft parts, by the ossification of which the bony clasp is formed. Thus does he not only deny the possibility of bony conso- lidation in the case of the intra-capsular fracture, but endeavours to explain why the union is impracticable. We cannot agree with this eminent patholo- gist in the observations that the ends of the * Loc. cit. t De la Fracture du col du femur. Par E. Clias- saignac, M.D., Paris, 1835. bones themselves take no part in effecting a bony union, for in cases of impacted fracture alluded to by us in a preceding article, particu- larly in the case of Sherlock, from which fig. 320 has been taken, bony consolidation had taken place in almost the whole line of the fracture, and could only have been effected by the union of the two bony surfaces which were confronted to each other. No doubt the union here was further fortified by the external effusion of new callus, which surrounded the bone at the seat of the fracture. When we re- flect on the cases adduced in proof of the bony consolidation of the intra-capsular fracture, we must either disbelieve the facts, or admit that the union is not impossible. It would have been satisfactory if the test by boiling the specimens of the united fractures had been resorted to in all these cases, as it had been in Mr. Langstaff's ; this observation par- ticularly applies to the case reported by Dr. Brulalour. of Bourdeaux. We find in Chas- saignac's report of this same case, taken from the memoir sent to the Academy of Medicine of Paris, (Seancedu 16 Avril, 1827) in alluding to the specimen in question he says:—"Scie, dans toute sa longueur le cal se presentait sous la forme d'une ligne oblique, raboteuse, d'une couleur moins blanche etd'un consistence un peu moins ferme que le reste de l'os.'' We had thus far entered into this much agi- tated question, when an interesting opportunity occurred to us of making the post-mortem exa- mination of a case of united intra-capsular fracture. The history of the case was this:— Owen Curran, set. 70, was for the last five years an inmate of the pauper department of the House of Industry; he was very infirm on his limbs, and his mind was in a state of dotage; on the 1st of August, 1837, while walking across his ward, he fell on his right side ; he was unable to rise, and complained of pain in his right hip; he was carried to bed, and was immediately visited by the late Mr. William Johnstone, who was then acting for me as clinical pupil, who found the limb everted, and only half an inch shorter than the other. Mr. Johnstone considered the case a fracture of the cervix femoris, which required no other surgical treatment than that of placing and preserving the limb in a semiflexed po- sition over pillows. The old man suffered but little pain in the injured part, at all events he did not complain of it. In about five weeks after the accident he was raised out of his bed, and when placed standing, he was able to put the heel of the injured limb to the ground. On the 30th of September, that is, about eight weeks after the accident, my friend Mr. Smith entered in his note-book the following memo- randum of this case :—" As the patient lies in bed he can elevate the injured limb by the un- assisted efforts of its own muscles. The ever- sion is slight, and the degree of shortening amounts to one inch; no force can bring the limb down to the length of the other. From the history and symptoms, this seems to have been a case of impacted fracture." This man survived the accident one year and nearly