FACE. 20? low groove for lodging the posterior palatine nerves and vessels. The nasal portion of the internal surface is placed above the palatine process, and is lined on its anterior three-fourths by the pituitary membrane. Tracing this sur- face from before backwards we observe, 1. the lower aperture of the naso-lachrymal canal, situate just behind the inferior turbinated crest of the nasal process; 2. posterior to this, the orifice of the maxillary sinus, or antrum of Highmore, which in the sepaiated bone is a large opening, but is contracted in the united face by the lachrymal, the ethmoid, the palate, and the inferior turbinated bones, which are attached around its margin. Above this aper- ture are seen some cells which unite with those of the ethmoid, and its lower edge presents a fissure in which is received the maxillary pro- cess of the palate-bone. Below the inferior turbinated crest, the naso-lachrymal canal and the orifice of the antrum, the bone is concave and smooth, and forms a part of the inferior meatus of the nose; behind this smooth surface and the orifice of the antrum, the bone is rough for the attachment of the vertical plate of the os palati, and it presents a groove, which, descending obliquely forwards to the palatine division of this surface, forms a part of the posterior palatine canal. The rnaxil/ary sinus (sinus maxillaris, antrum Hig/irnori; Germ, die Oberkieferhohlc) oc- cupies in the adult the whole body of the bone: its form is triangular, with the base directed internally towards the orifice which has been already described, and the apex out- wards towards the malar process. Its superior wall is formed by the orbitar plate; the pos- terior corresponds to the maxillary tuberosity ; and the anterior to the canine fossa. All these walls present ridges or crests, which lodge canals for the passage of nerves. The posterior and anterior walls contain the su- perior, anterior, and posterior dental canals, which lodge nerves of the same name. The upper wall contains the infra-orbitar groove and canal, which gives passage to the upper maxillary nerve. Borders.—1. The anterior or naso-maxillary border is united above along the nasal process to the nasal bone. Below this it is thin and presents a deep semicircular notch, which forms the lateral and inferior portions of the anterior aperture of the nose. At the lower extremity of this notch the bone projects, and forms with its fellow of the opposite side the anterior nasal spine. The remainder of this border proceeds downwards and a little forwards to terminate on the alveolar border of the bone between the two middle incisor teeth. 2. The posterior or pterygo-pa/atine border, thick, rounded, and vertical, is united below to the palate bone, and above it forms, with the palate bone, the anterior border of the pterygo-maxillary fissure. 3. The inferior or alveolar border is thick and broad, especially behind, and forms about the fourth of an oval. It is perforated with conical cavities (alveoli) for the reception of the roots of eight teeth. These cavities are VOL. It. separated by thin transverse laminae. Tracing them backwards from the anterior extremity of the border, the orifices of the two first are nearly circular, and receive the incisors ; they are the largest, and are placed below the nasal notch. The third, in form transversely oval, receives the canine tooth, is of great depth, and ascends in front of the canine fossa. The fourth and fifth, also transversely oval, but not so deep, receive the lesser molar teeth; they generally present ridges in their septa which correspond to grooves in the fangs of the teeth which are implanted into them. The orifices of the three last cavities are quadrilateral, and receive the molar teeth. The sixth and seventh are subdivided into three lesser cavities, of which the two external are smaller than the inner one. Sometimes one of the molar teeth has four fangs, and then we find its socket subdivided into a cor- responding number of cavities. The eighth alveolus, which receives the last molar tooth or dens sapiential, is not so distinctly divided into subordinate cavities, but presents ridges like the lesser molar. The outline of the alveolar border is waving, convex where it corresponds to the alveoli, and depressed op- posite their septa. The whole of this border is covered by the gums, and presents innu- merable pores for the nutritious vessels. The surfaces of the alveoli are also similarly marked. Connexions.— The upper maxillary articu- lates with two bones of the cranium, viz. the ethmoid and frontal, and sometimes with the sphenoid by its pterygoid processes, or by an union of the orbitar plates of both bones at the outer extremity of the spheno-maxillary fissure. In this case the malar bone does not enter into the formation of this fissure. The upper maxillary articulates with its fellow and with all the bones of the face. The me- dian and lateral cartilages of the nose are at- tached to it. It receives the upper teeth, and gives attachment to eight muscles, viz. the orbicularis palpebrarum, the inferior oblique of the eye, the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, the levator labii proprius, the depressor alae nasi, the compressor narium, the levator anguli oris, and the buccinator; often also to some of the fibres of the temporal and the external pterygoid muscles. It lodges the naso-palatine ganglion, and gives passage to the infra-orbitar and to the anterior and pos- terior palatine and dental vessels and nerves. It forms the greater part of the sides of the nose, and of the floor of that cavity, and of the orbit, as well as of the roof of the mouth. It contains the maxillary sinus and the nasal duct. Structure.—This bone is lighter than might be expected from its size, being occupied by the large antrum maxillare. It is cancellous only at the tuberosity, along the alveolar border, and at the malar and palatine processes. Developement.—The ossification of this bone commences as early as the thirtieth or thirty- fifth day of fipetal life, near its alveolar border, and it is complete at birth. It presents at p