EYE. 195 suits of the numerous experiments of Petit lead to the conclusion, that the anterior curvature is that of a portion of a sphere from six to seven lines and a half in diameter, the posterior that of a sphere of from five to six lines and a quarter. From the same source it appears that the dia- meter is from four lines to four lines and a half, the axis or thickness about two lines, and the weight three or four grains. I am, however, inclined to agree with the observation of Porter- field, that, " as it is scarce possible to measure the crystalline and the other parts of the eye with that exactness that may be depended on, all nice calculations founded on such measures must be fallacious and uncertain, and, therefore, should, for the most part, be looked on rather as illustrations than strict demonstrations of the points in question." The method by which Petit arrived at these results must render them of doubtful value, the curvatures having been determined by the application of brass plates cut to the requisite form. The results of Chossat's experiments, conducted with great care, and with the assistance of the megascope, are thus stated by Mr. Lloyd in his Treatise on Optics: " This author has found that the cornea of the eye of the ox is an ellipsoid of revolution round the greater axis, this axis being inclined inwards about 10°. The ratio of the major axis to the distance between the foci in the generating ellipse he found to be 1.3 ; and this agreeing very nearly with 1.337, the index of refraction of the aqueous humour, it follows that parallel rays will be refracted to a focus, by the surface of this humour, with mathemathical accuracy. The same author found likewise that the two surfaces of the crystalline lens are ellip- soids of revolution round the lesser axis ; and it is somewhat remarkable that the axes of these sur- faces do notcoincide in direction either with each other, or with the axis of the cornea, these axes being both inclined outwards, and containing with each other, in the horizontal section in which they lie, an angle of about 5P." It must not be forgotten that these observations apply to the crystalline of the ox, not to that of man, and also that, as Chossat himself admits, the evaporation of the fluid part of the lens, or the absorption or imbibition of the water in which it is immersed, may materially alter the curva- ture. I cannot myself believe it possible to separate a fresh lens in its capsule perfectly from the hyaloid membrane without injuring its structure, and endangering an alteration in its form. Haller states that Kepler considered the anterior convexity to approach to a sphe- roid, and the posterior to a hyperbolic cone. Wintringham states the results of his inquiries as to this matter as follows:—" In order to take the dimensions of the eye of an ox, I placed it on a horizontal board and applied three moveable silks, which were kept extended by small plummets, so as to be exact tangents to the arch of the cornea, as well at each can- thus, as at the vertex; then applying a very exactly divided scale, I found that the chord of the cornea was equal to 1.05 of an inch, the versed sine of this chord to be 0.29, and con- sequently the radius of the cornea was equal to 0.620215 of an inch. I then carefully took off the cornea, and replaced the eye as before, and found, by applying one of the threads as a tan- gent to the vertex of the crystalline, that the distance between this and the vertex of the cor- nea was 0.355 of an inch. Afterwards I took the crystalline out without injuring its figure, or displacing the capsula, and then applying the threads to each surface of this humour, as was done before to the arch of the cornea, I found that the chord of the crystalline was 0.74 of an inch, and its versed sine, with respect to the anterior surface, to be 0.189 of an inch, and consequently the radius of this surface was 0.45665 of the same. In like manner the versed sine to the same chord, with respect to the posterior surface of the crystalline, I found to be equal to 0.38845 of an inch. Lastly, I found the axis of the crystalline and that of the whole eye from the cornea to the retina to be 0.574, 2.21 respectively.'" Whatever doubts may be entertained respecting the accuracy of the measurements of the lens, there can be none that the form is different at different periods of life, in the human subject. It also appears to differ in different individuals at the same period of life, and probably the curvature is not the same in both eyes. In other animals the dif- ference in form is most remarkable. In the human fetus, even up to the ninth month, it is almost spherical. Petit states that he found the anterior curvature in a fetus of seven months, a portion of a sphere of three lines diameter, and the posterior of two and a half, and the same in a new-born infant. In an in- fant eight days old, the anterior convexity was a portion of a sphere of four lines, and the posterior of three. All anatomists concur in considering the lens to approach more to a sphere at this period. In childhood the curva- tures still continue much greater than in ad- vanced life; from ten to twenty probably de- crease, and from that period to forty, forty-five, or fifty, remain stationary, when they become much less; being, according to the tables of Petit, portions of spheres from seven to even twelve lines in diameter, and on the posterior of six or eight. Every day's observation proves that the lens becomes flattened, and its curva- tures diminished as persons advance in life. It is seen in dissection, when extracted by opera- tion, and even during life; the distance between its anterior surface and the back of the iris be- ing so great in some old persons, that the sha- dow of the pupil may be seen upon it, while at an earlier period it actually touches that part of the membrane. This diminution of the curva- tures of the lens commences about the age of forty-five. Petit found the anterior convexity varying from a sphere of about seven to twelve lines diameter, and the posterior from fire to eight in persons from fifty to sixty-five years of age. The alteration in power of adaptation, and the indistinctness of vision of near objects which takes place at this period, is probably to be attributed to this cause, although a diminu- tion of the muscular power of the iris, and con- sequent inactivity of the pupil, may contribute to the defect. It is also to be recollected that the density of the lens is much increased at this period, and that the young person whose lens o 2