547 ORGAN OF HEARING. der Amboss.—This has been compared, also, to a bicuspid molar tooth. It is divided into a body, and two processes, or crura. The body, corpus, presents a concave articu- lar surface, by which it is joined to the malleus : around this surface is a groove, (particularly deep and broad on the side towards the laby- rinth, that is, the side on which the lenticular process projects,) for the insertion of the articu- lar capsule. The shorter of the two processes, crus s. pro- cessus superior s. brevis, is blunt at its apex, and compressed from one side to another. The longer process, crus s. processus inferior s. longus, is more slender, and becomes gradually thinner towards its extremity, where it is slightly curved, and where it presents, supported on a short bony pedicle, given off at a right angle from its side, the lenticular process, processus lenticularis incudis ;*'—a small oval plate so situated, that a line drawn through the long diameter of it would intersect obliquely a line corresponding to the long crus of the incus. The free surface of the lenticular process is convex, and is destined to articulate with the corresponding concave surface on the head of the stapes. The lenticular process has been, and is still, often described as a separate bone, under the name of os lenticulare. The stirrup bone, (stapes). Fr. Uetrier. Germ. Der Ziteigbiigel.—Exactly like a stirrup, this bone presents a base, two crura, and a head, where the crura unite. The base, basis, the essential part of the bone, has precisely the same shape as the vestibular fenestra to which it is applied, only a little smaller. The arched margin of the base cor- responds to the upper edge of the fenestra, and the indented margin to the lower edge. The surface of the base corresponding to the vestibular fenestra is slightly convex. The other surface is grooved ; but the groove is subdivided by a ridge, which extends obliquely along it lengthways, and which is continuous at its ex- tremities with the upper margin of the groove on the inner surface of one crus, and the lower margin of the groove of the opposite crus. The margin of the base projects like a ledge beyond the insertion of the crura. Of the two crura, one is shorter and straighter than the other; both are grooved on the surfaces regarding each other, and the grooves are con- tinued into that just described in the base, in such a way that the groove of one crus is con- tinued into one of the divisions, and the groove of the other crus into the other. The head, capitulum, somewhat oblong and flat, presents a superficial depression on its top, oblique from above downwards, and from with- out inwards, for receiving the convex articular surface of the lenticular process of the incus. There is sometimes an appearance of a neck supporting the head. Position, connexions, and articulations of the small bones of the tympanum.-—The handle of * Blumenbach, Geschichte, und Beschreibung der menschl. Knochen, s. 50, p. 145. Fig. 250. Small bones of the tympanum of the left side, mag- nified considerably more than twice. ( f rom Soem- mering.) A is the malleus seen from the side correspond- ing to the membrana tympani : a. head ; b. articu- lar surface ; c. neck; d. handle; e. short process; f. long process. B. The incus seen from its outer surface also : a. body; b. articular surface ; c. short crus ; d. long crus ; e e. lenticular process. C. The stapes: a. head; b. neck; c. anterior and less bent crus ; d. posterior and more bent crus; e. base. D. A fore-shortened view of the stapes: a. an- terior and less curved crus ; b. posterior crus, the two are seen uniting at the head, the articular sur- face of which is seen; c. base. the malleus is fixed to the membrana tympani. The articular surface on the head of the malleus, to the corresponding surface on the body of the incus, and the long process of the incus, is through the medium of its lenticular process articulated with the stapes. These two joints are furnished with small articular capsules. The head of the malleus lies in the upper space of the tympanum, above the upper margin of the membrana tympani. Its articular sur- face is directed obliquely backwards and in- wards. The surface of the neck, corresponding to the prominence of the angle which it forms with the manubrium, is hitched like a shoulder under the upper part of the circumference of the inner extremity of the auditory passage. The handle of the malleus, it has been said, is compressed from one side to another, so that it presents two flat surfaces and two edges or ridges. That edge or ridge which is continued down from the short process is turned outwards, and corresponds to the membrana tympani ; into it, indeed, along its whole extent, the cen- tral extremities of the radiating fibres of that membrane are inserted. The extremity of the handle of the malleus, which is curved forwards and outwards, is compressed, but in a direction contrary to the rest of the handle; so that one of the flat surfaces, that corresponding to the outer ridge of the rest of the handle, is con- nected with the membrana tympani at a point below its centre, and nearer its anterior edge. It is at this point that the bottom of the con- cavity is which the membrana tympani presents externally. At its upper part the membrana tympani is pushed outwards by the short pro- cess of the malleus, which projects towards the auditory passage. 2 o 2