EXCRETION. 152 which in the natural state is found only in the bile, has been found deposited in diseased structures in the brain, kidneys, pelvis, scro- tum, &c.; and lithic acid, naturally existing only in the urine, is deposited in cases of chalk- stone in the textures immediately surrounding the joints of the fingers and toes. It seems to be nearly in like manner that purulent matter, when mixed in unusual quantity with the blood, as by inflammation of a vein, is fre- quently deposited in individual parts of the body, with little or none of the usual sym- ptoms, or of the other accompaniments, of in- flammation at these parts. 3. There are a considerable number of cases recorded on unexceptionable evidence, where excretions have passed off per aliena cola, i. e. by organs which in the natural state yield no such products, and the structure of which is widely different from that of the glands where they are usually secreted. This has been most frequently observed of the milk and of the urine, and of the latter, both in cases where the secretion at the kidneys had been sup- pressed, and in cases where its discharge by the urinary passages has been obstructed, so as to occasion its re-absorption. In both cases it is obvious that the peculiar matter of this excretion must have been first mixed generally with the blood, and then deposited in indivi- dual parts of the system, widely different as well as distant from those where it usually appears. In cases of this kind collected by Haller,* the vicarious discharge of urine is stated to have occurred from the skin, from the stomach, from the intestines, and from the nipples; and in cases recorded by Dr. Arnold and Dr. Sen- ter in America, it is stated to have been passed by vomiting, by stool, from the nose and from the mammae, as well as other parts.f Both in cases given by Haller, and in one recorded in Magendie's Journal de Physiologie, (vol. vii.) milk is stated to have been evacuated in quan- tity from pustules that formed on the thigh ; and among the former are instances of its hav- ing passed off from the salivary glands, the kidneys, and the uterus. Such statements were formerly considered as fabulous, but since the facts already mentioned (and particularly the appearance of urea in the blood after ex- tirpation of the kidneys) have been ascertained, this scepticism seems no longer reasonable. It must be here observed, that the healthy blood is easily shown to contain in itself mat- ters more nearly akin to all the solid textures and to the other secreted fluids of the body, than to the bile and the urine; and hence, if we are satisfied that the elaboration of these latter fluids is effected in the blood itself, and does not essentially require any special action of the organs in which they usually appear, there can be little hesitation about extending this inference to other acts of secretion and to nutrition. It appears, therefore, at least highly probable, that the whole processes of as- similation and elaboration of the fluids in the * Elem. Phys. lib. vii. ch. 1. t London Med. and Phys. Journal, 1828. living body are carried on, as other chemical changes on fluids are, in the interior of these fluids themselves, and that the solids of the body are concerned in these changes only in two ways : first, by securing the complete sub- division and intimate intermixture of the fluids necessary to their chemical changes; and second- ly, by determining the parts of the body where peculiar matters, already existing in the blood, shall be deposited from it, or attracted out of it. VI. We may next enquire, what is the most probable original source of the matters which are thrown out of the body in the way of ex- cretion. As it is generally believed, and on strong grounds, that the solid textures, as well as prepared fluids of the body, are liable to continual decay and renovation, it has long been the general belief, that the materials for the ex- cretions are supplied chiefly from those sub- stances which have formed part of the textures, and, after fulfilling their office there, have been taken back into the circulation with a view to their discharge from the body. And it has been conjectured, certainly with much probabi- lity, by Berzelius and by Autenrieth, that the animal matters thus mixed with the blood on their way to the excretories, are distinguishable from the albuminous or nutritious parts of the blood, by their solubility both in hot and cold water, and constitute the animal matter of the serosity, or uncoagulable animal matter of the blood. This is supported by the observation, that, when the kidneys are extirpated, this part of the blood is first observed to increase in amount, and afterwards it is here that the urea is detected.* And the connexion of the excretions with absorption from all parts of the body seems farther illustrated by the pheno- mena of diabetes, which may be held to be the disease in which there is the strongest evidence of increased absorption in all parts of the body, from the rapid digestion, the rapid recurrence of thirst after drinking, the dryness of the sur- face, and the progressive emaciation notwith- standing the excessive amount of ingesta ; and in which the quantity of the urine is often ten times, and the solid contents of the urine often twenty times, the average quantity in health.f But it should not be too hastily concluded, that all the solid constituents of the animal body are liable to continual absorption and renova- tion. The permanence of coloured marks on the skin, noticed by Magendie, is sufficient evidence, that, in some of the textures, any such change must go on very slowly ; and some of the best observers doubt whether any such pro- cess of alternate deposition and absorption takes place in vegetables, in which, nevertheless, as we have seen, excretion is a necessary process. * Provost ct Dumas in Ann. de Chimie, t. xxiii. p. 97. t The change of nature of the animal part of this solid matter, (viz. the disappearance of part of the urea, and substitution of an excessive quantity of sugar,) is evidently connected with the singular fact ascertained by Dr. Prout, that sugar differs from urea simply in containing no azote, and a dou- hle quantity of carbon and oxygen: a discovery which will, probably, acquire a greatly increased importance in the progress of organic chemistry.