78 ABNORMAL CONDITION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. very violent attack of inflammation, which, no matter in what situation it had originated, ulti- mately we find had not spared any of the tis- sues entering into the formation of the articu- lation. Bone.—The elastic white swelling (which is one of the usual external signs of this articular caries when the bones of the elbow-joint are the seat of the affection) is always situated poste- riorly, and gives a characteristic appearance and a rounded form to the back part of the elbow-joint, which cannot be mistaken nor misunderstood. The wasted appearance of the arm above and of the fore-arm below makes this swelling more conspicuous, and the whole limb remains habitually in the semiflexed posi- tion, with the fore-arm somewhat prone ; every movement of the articulation causes the patient much pain. The disease, thus arrived at its second or third stage, may remain stationary for a time or terminate in an anchylosis of the bones; commonly, however, the morbid pro- cess goes on. Luxation of one or both bones of the fore-arm occurs, symptomatic abscesses present themselves, and these after a time make their way to the surface, and discharge their contents through openings, sometimes near, and frequently at a distance from the joint; and thus, at length, we see formed direct outlets as well as sinuses and fistulous canals, which give exit to exhausting discharges. The pain and irritation attendant on the disease itself, added to all these, give rise to hectic fever, which too frequently nothing but the desperate measure of amputation will arrest. The disease, which produces such serious consequences, often be- gins very insidiously, either in the head of the radius and external condyle of the humerus, or in the trochlea of this bone and the great sig- moid cavity of the ulna. When the disease begins at the radial side, the pain runs along the course of the musculo-spiral nerve, and there is a manifest swelling externally in the situation of the radio-humeral articulation : although there is even now a marked tendency in the fore-arm to remain in a semiflexed posi- tion, still gentle flexion and limited extension are admissible ; but when the radius is pressed against the humerus, and a movement of rota- tion at the same time is given to the fore-arm, much pain is complained of. The disease may go on, confining itself chiefly to the radial side of the elbow-joint through its first stage of pain and swelling; through its second of effu- sion of fluids and relaxation of the coronary and external lateral ligament; and, thirdly, to dislo- cation backwards of the head of the radius, and even to suppuration and discharge of mat- ter through an ulceration or slough of the inte- guments. When the caries has commenced in one of the opposed surfaces of the trochlea of the humerus or great sigmoid cavity of the ulna, the swelling and effusion are first noticed in- ternally at the side of the olecranon and inter- nal condyle. The pain extends to the wrist along the course of the ulnar nerve ; the fore- arm is in this case also in a state of semi- flexion, and any attempt to extend or increase the degree of flexion causes very severe pain, while, on the contrary, a movement of rotation of the fore-arm is permitted. If the disease pro- ceeds, the great sigmoid cavity of the ulna be- comes wider and deeper, and the humerus ad- vances on the coronoid process; the internal lateral ligaments are relaxed, and the triceps drags back the fore-arm, so that the olecranon process projects somewhat posteriorly, and there is a tendency to a displacement backwards. Whether the disease has originated on the radial or ulnar side of the joint, it very generally spreads so as to involve the articular surfaces of the three bones, and now the disease, termed scrophulous white swelling, becomes fully esta- blished, and is easily recognized by the usual signs. Besides dislocation backwards, either of the radius or of the ulna singly, or of both these bones together, lateral displacements of the bones of the fore-arm at the elbow have been noticed as a consequence of caries; nor need we be surprised at such variety of posi- tion being assumed by the bones, when inflam- mation has softened the strong lateral ligaments and caused their ulceration. While the patient is confined to bed or to the horizontal posture, the mere position which is given to the fore-arm on the pillow will influence the direction of the displacement that will occur. We have seen, under such circumstances, complete late- ral displacement of both bones of the fore-arm outwards. The internal condyle of the hume- rus pressing against the integuments covering it had caused a round slough, through which the internal condyle of this bone protruded, while the rounded head of the radius had on the outer side caused a similar slough and ulceration of the integuments, through which the upper cup-like extremity of this bone had protruded. This lateral displacement of both bones of the fore-arm outwards, whether occurring sud- denly from accident, or slowly from the effects of articular caries, if it be complete, must always (we imagine) be followed by a consecutive dislocation upwards. In this case of caries above alluded to, we found the whole extremity somewhat shortened, that the hand remained habitually prone, and that the fore- arm (in a state of semiflexion as to the arm) was directed with considerable obliquity in- wards. It was plain that the causes of all these external signs were, that both bones of the fore-arm having their normal relation to each other, were first carried completely out- side the inferior extremity of the humerus, and were then drawn upwards above the level of the outer condyle of this bone. The olecranon process was not thrown at all backwards, but was situated immediately above and outside the external condyle of the humerus ; the coro- noid process was in front of this bone; the inner semilunar edge of the great sigmoid ca- vity therefore corresponded to the convexity of the outer side of the humerus, and seemed, as it were, to embrace this bone here so as to for- bid any further retraction of the fore-arm. When we proceed to examine an elbow-joint which has been the seat of a scrophulous white