954 INSECTA. always accompanies that of the trachea. The crura vary much in length in different species. In Neuroptera, Hymenoptera, Lepidoptera, Diptera, and Homoptera they are short and thick, and form with the medulla a thick collar, through which the oesophagus passes as a narrow lube; but in the Gryllidte (Jig. 410),' and more particularly in the Lucanida: (fig. 413), they are excessively elongated, and they are also of great length in the Timurcha. The medulla oblongata varies much in size; in some, as in the Lepidoptera, it is as large as one of the lobes of the cerebrum, while in others it is scarcely thicker than the crura. It is always largest where large nerves are required for the parts of the mouth, which in all cases are derived from it. In this respect there is a striking analogy between it and the medulla oblongata of vertebrata. The anterior pair of nerves from this part are given to the labium and lingua, while the two next pairs are given to the man- dibles and maxilla. In the distribution of these nerves there is great similitude to that of the fifth pair in the higher animals. In the larva state these nerves are always distinct from each other, but in the perfect they are often united at their base into one trunk. This is the case in the Timurcha and Gryllida. The anterior pair is the largest in mandibulated insects, and supplies the powerful mandibles, while the posterior pair is given to the maxilla;. The union of these nerves at their base is interesting from the circumstance that during manducation a consentaneous movement of these parts is required, since, while the mandibles are em- ployed in chewing, the maxilla? are also em- ployed in turning and assisting to pass the food into the pharynx. In the Sphinx ligustri, and other Lepidoptera, the chief portion of the man- dibular nerve has disappeared in the perfect state, in consequence of the atrophy which has taken place in the mandibles during the trans- formations ; but one branch of the nerve which exists in the larva state appears to have become approximated to the maxillary nerve, which is now greatly elongated and given to the pro- boscis, the representative of the maxillae of the larva. The branch that appears to have belonged to the mandibular nerve is extended along the concave or inner side of each half of the proboscis, where the sense of taste may justly be suspected to reside, and is traceable very nearly to the extremity of the organ, where the papillae we formerly noticed are situated, and in the direction of which this nerve is extended. From this we believe it to be analogous in function to the gustatory portion of the fifth nerve in vertebrata. In Lucanus cervus the mandibular nerve is of great length, and is so extensively developed as to afford almost a proof of the elongation of nerves during the metamorphoses of the insect. We have traced this nerve from its origin (Jig. 413, c) into the base of the mandible, which it enters a little external to the insertion of the flexor muscles, where it is divided into three trunks, the inner one of which we have traced very nearly as far as the apex of the mandible. The other two are situated more externally. Fig. 413. Nervous system of Lucanus cervus. A, the brain; B, optic nerves; C, sympathetic; D, antennal nerves; a, ganglion of the vagus nerve; b, the nerve; i, its division on the oeso- phagus ; d, nerve to the first pair of legs; /, nerve to the wings, giving off at its base a small nerve to the elytra; g, nerve to second pair of legs ; k, to third pair; I, abdominal cord and ganglia.