INSECT A. 982 of perfect rest, previously to changing its skin, the number is pretty nearly equal at each pe- riod, being about thirty. When the insect has passed into the pupa state it sinks down to twenty-two, and subsequently to ten or twelve, and after that, during the period of hybernation, it almost entirely ceases. But when the same insect which we had watched from its earliest condition was developed into the perfect state in May of the following spring, the number of pulsations, after the insect had been for some time excited in flight around the room, amounted to from one hundred and ten to one hundred and thirty-nine; and when the same insect was in a state of repose, to from forty-one to fifty. When, however, the great business of life, the continuation of the species, has been accom- plished, or when the insect is exhausted, and perishing through want of food or other causes, the number of pulsations gradually diminishes, until the motions of the heart are almost im- perceptible. Insects, then, do not deviate from other animals, as has been supposed, in re- gard to their vital phenomena, although it has been somewhat curiously imagined that the nutrient and circulatory functions are less active in the perfect than in the larva condition. This supposed inferiority has been attempted to be accounted for on the hypothesis that as insects no longer increase in size after entering the perfect state, there is but little expendi- ture or waste of body, and that, consequently, they must require less nourishment. But we have elsewhere shown * that the expenditure of the body, whether in the larva or perfect state, is in the ratio of the amount of activity and length of life of the insect, while it will be remembered that those insects which exist but for a short time in the perfect state, and take little or no food, invariably have a supply of nourishment stored up within their own bodies, in immense accumulations of adipose matter; and that those which exist for a lona; period have within themselves only a small quantity of nourishment, but are by no means sparing in the quantity of food daily consumed by them, being, as they often are, some of the most voracious of the insect race. Organs of respiration.—All perfect insects, whether inhabitants of air or water, breathe air alone; but some larva?, that are constant in- habitants of water, respire the air which is me- chanically mixed with the water, by means of branchias; but respiratory organs in the form of trachea; (fig. 435) are almost as extensively distributed throughout every part of their bodies as in the perfect insects. We shall divide the respiratory organs into external and internal. The external are of three kinds, spiracles, tra- chea, and branchia. The internal are either simply tracheal, or tracheal and vesicular. The spiracles are apertures situated along the sides of the body communicating directly with the internal respiratory organs. They are usually nine in number on each side. In Hy- menopterous larva? there are ten. Each spi- racle consists of a horny ring, generally of an oval form, within which is a valve formed of a * Phil, Trans, p. 2, 1837, Fig. 435. Portion o f a tracfseal vessel of the larva of Vanessa ■urticce, shewing, a, the spiral fibre j and b, the loose investing covering. (Netvport, Phil. Trans.y series of converging fibres, and which opens perpendicularly in its long axis, guarding the external entrance. At a little distance within this valve the spiracle is somewhat enlarged, and there is a second valve of a more com- plicated form. This has already been noticed in our account of the muscular structure, but we must again describe it in connexion with the respiratory organs. The anterior half of this inner or second valve is strong, immovable, and of a horny texture, of the colour of tortoise- shell. It is thin and lunated at its margin. The posterior half is thick, rounded, and freely moveable, and closes- on the anterior like a cushion or pad. This is the structure of the spiracle in the Sphinx and most other insects. But m some, in which the spiracle is concealed beneath a portion of the skeleton, the horny external ring is absent, and instead of it the entrance, or margin of the spiracle, is merely a little thickened and fringed with short hairs. This description of spiracle exists in the pro- thorax of some Coleoptera and Orthoptera as in Gryllolalpa, in which one portion or lip overlaps the other, thus forming as it were an outer valve or lid. In other instances,as in the Lamellicornes, the spiracles of the abdomen are very minute and circular, and their open- ing appears to be cribriform, or at most only very minute, and surrounded by short hairs. In others, again, as in some larvae, the spiracles consist of a broad margin with a narrow middle space and central aperture that leads immediately into the tracheal vessel, the open- ing into which is exceedingly small. The size of the spiracles in different parts of the body varies very much in different insects. Those of the abdomen are always much smaller than those of the thorax, and the most posterior ones, which were of great importance in the larva