ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HEART. 644 of pericarditis. Every museum contains many * Dub. Journ, vol. ix. p. 419. stomach of the calf, or, as Laennec suggested, to the appearance produced by quickly se- parating two slabs of marble which have been applied together, with a small quantity of butter or some similar substance between them. The depth of the depressions iri this false membrane varies with the thickness of the membrane itself. Shortly after its deposition the lymph is very tender and easily torn, but when it has been some time deposited, it ac- quires a considerable power of resistance. The effused fluid in pericarditis varies likewise in quality and quantity. In some cases it is whey-coloured, with flocculi of lymph floating in it; in others it is of a yellowish colour, ap- proaching that of pus, and in some degree of the same consistence: sometimes it is of a brownish colour. When it is in very small quantity it is less turbid ; when in large quan- tity it resembles whey. In some cases the quantity is very considerable. It may be said to vary from a few ounces to more than a pint; but in some extreme cases it goes even far be- yond this; thus Corvisart mentions a case in which the effused fluid amounted to eight pounds, and in one described by Bertin the distended pericardium formed a bag seven or eight inches broad, five deep, and ten or eleven in height. Sometimes the effusion cannot be distinguished from pus. The coagulable lymph is effused not only on the free surface of the visceral layer of the pe- ricardium, but likewise on that of the parietal layer. That which is effused upon this latter layer is, however, often much thinner and more delicate. These two deposits of lymph are continuous with each other at the reflection of the serous pericardium from the great vessels on to the muscular fibres. When the effused fluid hasbeen lenioved by absorption, the two pseudo- membranes being brought into apposition with each other, areas it were glued together; they become organised by new vessels shooting into them from the cardiac vessels, and at length they assume the form of cellular tissue. The •cavity of the pericardium thus becomes oblite- rated by the development of this new cellular tissue. The adhesions thus formed are more or less extensive according to the extent of the primitive inflammation, so that in some cases the pericardium is universally adherent to the heart; in others the adhesion is circumscribed within very narrow limits; in this latter case the new cellular membrane is often of conside- rable length, inasmuch as the spots to which it adheres on the opposed layers of serous mem- brane do not at all correspond; but when the adhesion is extensive, the connecting cellular membrane is generally short and close, so much so in some cases that the pericardium and heart appear to be completely identified. The mus- cular substance subjacent to the inflamed peri- cardium sometimes appeals to participate in the inflammatory process, acquires a greater hue of redness than is natural, and becomes softer, and loses to a greater or less degree its cohesive power. Such is the ordinary course and termination specimens illustrative of the different stages of this disease. The cellular adhesion which fills up the pericardial cavity occasionally exhibits further alterations. Sometimes we find it infil- trated with serum,and quiteanasarcous; at other times a sero-purulent or purulent fluid is effused into it. It becomes condensed, fibrous in its character; or cartilaginous or fibro-cartilaginous or even osseous plates are formed in it, which sometimes are of so large a size that the heart appears as if enveloped in an osseous case. This cartilaginous or osseous deposit, however, sometimes takes place in the fibrous pericardium. Dr. Hodgkin mentions a case of osseous trans- formation so extensive that the osseous plate occupied a large portion of the base of the heart, where it formed a complete bony ring, the apex of the heart, however, being; left at liberty. A somewhat similar case is recorded by my friend Mr. Smith. " The pericardium was united to the surface of the heart by close and old adhesions, and around the base of the organ bony matter was deposited in considera- ble quantity, apparently between the two serous layers of the pericardium; it formed an osseous belt surrounding nearly theentireofthebase ofthe heart ; its surface flat and rough, its margin irregular and waving, and its average breadth about one inch. This bony girdle penetrated into the substance of the ventricles, and reached in some parts almost to the lining membrane of the latter."* In Mr. Burns' case the whole extent of the pericardium covering the ventricles, and the ventricles themselves, except about a cubic inch at the apex of the heart, were ossified and firm as the skull. White spot on the heart.—-There is no ap- pearance with which anatomists are more familiar than the white spots on the heart. A single portion of white opaque, or nearly opaque membrane, situated on the anterior part of the right ventricle nearer its apex than its base, and varying in circumference from that of a shilling to that of a half-crown, as thick as the pericardium itself and sometimes conside- rably thicker, constitutes what I have most fre- quently seen. They may be found, however, oc- casionally on the posterior surface as well as the anterior, on the left side as well as the right, on the auricles as well as the ventricles. On careful examination, it is evident that the opa- city is occasioned by an adventitious deposit. This deposit, in a great number of the cases in which I have examined it, consisted of a thin lamina of condensed cellular membrane adherent to the free surface of the visceral layer of the pericardium, which could easily be dissected off, and which I have often peeled off with my fingers, leaving the pericardium appa- rently as if no deposit had been found there. Dr. Baillie, and more recently Laennec and Louis, testify to the facility with which it may be dissected off. Others, however, affirm that the deposit is most frequently under the serous covering of the heart, and consequently in the subserous cellular tissue by which that layer is connected to the heart. Corvisart