548 ORGAN OF HEARING. The long process of the malleus is directed forwards, and lies in a groove within the anterior part of that for the reception of the membrana tympani, and close to the fissure of Glasser. To the top of the head of the malleus, a ligament extends downwards from the upper wall of the cavity of the tympanum. Another ligament, known also under the name of the great external muscle of the malleus, proceeds from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone backwards and inwards, through the fissure of Glasser, and is inserted into the long process of the malleus. A third ligament has been de- scribed, as arising from within the upper and posterior margin of the inner orifice of the auditory passage above the margin of the niem- brana tympani, and proceeding downwards and inwards to be inserted into the handle of the malleus below the short process, close to the place where the connexion between the handle of the malleus and the membrana tympani ceases. Of this ligament, which has also been described as a muscle, small external muscle of the malleus, there is not much trace, except in the reddish cellular tissue already mentioned. The body of the incus lies in the upper and posterior part of the tympanic cavity. Its articular surface, corresponding to that of the malleus, is directed forwards, and a little up- wards and outwards. The articulating surfaces of the two bones are incrusted with cartilage, and the joint is provided with a synovial mem- brane, which is strengthened by ligamentous fibres. The short branch is directed horizon- tally backwards towards the entrance into the mastoid cells, and is there fixed by means of a short and broad ligament, which arises from a small pit in the outer wall, and embracing its extremity, is inserted on it. The long branch extends perpendicularly downwards, almost pa- rallel with the handle of the malleus, but nearer the inner wall of the tympanum, towards which its extremity, bearing the lenticular process, is curved. The stapes, situated lower down in the cavity of the tympanum than the other bones, lies with its base applied to the vestibular fenestra, to the circumference of which it is closely fixed by a circular ligament, ligamenhm annulare buseos stapidis. This ligament springs from the margin of the vestibular fenestra, and is inserted into the jutting margin of the base of the stapes all round. Besides this ligament, there are re- flections of the membrane lining the tympanum, and of that lining the vestibule. The con- nexions of the base of the stapes with the ves- tibular fenestra are such as to admit of some degree of movement, but not to any very great extent,—so little, that it would seem one object of the mechanism of the fenestra ovalis, and its closure by the base of the stapes, was merely to interrupt the continuity of the osseous walls of the vestibule. The short branch of the stapes is in front; the long branch behind, and its head outwards, where it meets and art.culates with the lenticu- lar process of the Ion? branch of the incus. This articulation presents also cartilages of in- crustation, and a minute synovial capsule, to- gether with strengthening ligamentous fibres. Fig. 251. The small bones connected together, and their relation to the osseous labyrinth. Left side. Magnified. ( From Soemmerring.) Muscles of the small bones.—Some anatomists admit four muscles : three attached to the mal- leus and one to the stapes. Of the three at- tached to the malleus,two are described as having for their action the relaxation of the membrana tympani; but these so called laxutores tym- pani are merely ligaments, and have been de- scribed above as such. I agree with Hagen- bach,* Breschet,t and Lincke,J that two muscles only can be distinctly demonstrated, and these two are both tensors of the tympanum. A relaxation, or state of rest of the membrana tympani, takes place of itself, as Treviranus§ remarks, when the tensors cease to act; hence a relaxator muscle of the membrana tympani was not required Muscle of the malleus, musculus interims mallei s. tensor tympani.—This muscle occupies the canal, or half canal, which was described as lying above the osseous part of the Eustachian tube. It arises from the posterior and under part of the sphenoid bone, from the superior part of the cartilaginous portion of the Eusta- chian tube, and also from an aponeurotic sheath which lines the canal, or completes the groove in which it is lodged. Its fibres proceed from before backwards, and terminate in a slender tendon, which bending at a right angle, as a rope over a pulley, enters the cavity of the tympanum, through the tubular projection al- ready described as a continuation of the canal in which it lies. Having entered the tympanum, it proceeds outwards, and is inserted into a slight elevation, sometimes remarked on the inner and anterior surface of the handle of the malleus below the long process, and also a little below and opposite the root of the shoit * Disquisitiones anatomicae circa miisculos amis intern* hominis et Mammalium, &c. Basileae, 1833, p. 20. t Op. cit. s. xxxiii. } Das Ciehororgan, &c. Leipzig, 1837, p. 140, s. 114. § Biolo^ie, Band. vi. p. 376.