HEART. 591 the muscular fibres of the ventricles may be stated to be as follows. 1st, Most of these fibres are connected by both extremities to the tendinous structure of the heart, a fact well known to Lower,* though overlooked by many subsequent anatomists. 2d, The direction of these fibres is more or less oblique, a com- paratively small part of them only being vertical, and that too for a limited part of their course. The degree of obliquity of these spiral turns is different in different por- tions of the heart: they are more ob- lique on the surface and less oblique as we proceed to the deeper fibres, more particularly at the base. The deeper fibres approach more to the cir- cular form. 3d, As has been already stated, part of these fibres are common to both ventricles; while part only belong exclusively to a single ventricle, and that principally at the base. 4th, The external fibres are longer than the next in order, and after turning round the apex pass upwards into the interior, below the lower margin of the shorter fibres, and form the inner surface of the ventricles, while the deeper again turn up below the lower margin of the fibres next in succession, so that the longer enclose by their two extremities all the shorter fibres. By this arrange- ment we can explain how the base and middle part of the ventricles should be much thicker than the apex. This arrangement has been particularly in- sisted upon by Dr. Duncan and Gerdy, and to illustrate it Gerdy has given an ideal illustration, of which fig. 271 is a copy. Fie. 271. run in a spiral manner from above downwards and from right to left, while those on the pos- terior surface, which are in general more ver- tical, run from left to right. Most of these bands are thin and broad at the upper part, and become narrower and thicker as they ap- proach the apex, where they form a remarkable twisting, which has been termed the vortex, (of which jig. 272, taken from the human heart after boiling, is an accurate representation,) and then pass in to assist in forming the inner surface Fig. 272. of the left ventricle and the columnar carnere. The manner in which the external fibres turn in at the apex to form the inner surface of the ventricles and enclose the deeper fibres was well known to Lower, and he has illustrated it by an engraving, of which Jig. 273 is a copy. In examining the course of the fibres of the ventricles we shall not attempt to describe each particular band of fibres, but confine ourselves to their general arrangement.f In examining the surface of the ventricles the superficial fibres of the anterior surface are observed to * Tractatus de Corde, p. 34 to 37. Lugd. Batav. 1669. t Wolff has named and minutely described eight distinct bands of muscular fibres on the surface of the right ventricle : Acta Petropolit. pro anno 1781, torn. viii. p. 251, 1785.