797 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. of early affections of the hip-disease, in which little or no displacement of the head of the femur occurred. The acetabulum, we know, is generally widened in this disease, and the head of the femur is drawn upwards and outwaids ; if at this period the inflammation be arrested, true bony anchylosis may occur; and if a happy direction can be given to the shaft of the femur, a very useful limb may remain, even though the hip-joint itself has lost all motion; the sacro-lumbar joint and the neighbouring inter- vertebral structures admit of much freedom of motion. In examining anatomically the hip-joints of those who, having had the chronic scrofulous disease of this articulation in their youth, and have recovered and lived for years, though lame, in these, instead of anchylosis, we find a false joint is formed. Of this imperfect cure of hip disease we have seen some examples, and we possess one remarkable specimen of it. In this the acetabulum was altogether removed, and a triangular space, encircled by a rounded brim covered with a compact stratum of bone, existed. The removal of the neck of the femur was so complete that a plane or rather concave surface corresponded to the inner side of the trochanter major, from which the neck of the bone naturally arises. It has been stated that luxation on the dor- sum of the ilium sometimes happens as a con- sequence of chronic disease of the joint; some- times the disease which carried away, in this instance, the borders of the acetabulum, seems, as it were, to have been transferred to the new surface of the os innominatum with which the head of the femur came in contact, and we find the process of ulceration has even continued its course ; again it sometimes happens that an- chylosis or a false joint has been formed. Albers and Rust have described the change which the bones of the pelvis undergo in their form and situation. The pelvis, in those who have for a long time gone lame, is pushed up- wards, and the sacrum is flat and straight. In a few cases, however, it is more curved than in the natural state; the coccyx is bent strongly forwards, and the connexion of the last lumbar vertebra with the sacrum forms a right angle ; the ilium of the affected side stands higher, and has in general a perpendicular direction, and more of a triangular form ; the external surface is smooth, whilst the iliac fossa appears more hollowed than usual; this hollowing probably depends on the action of the iliacus intern us, which is greater than that of the gluta;i. The horizontal ramus of the pubes often seems lengthened and lower than in the natural state, and the ischium is usually drawn outwards and forwards ; the perpendicular direction of the foramen ovale is changed more to a hori- zontal one, and the opening assumes more of a triangular form, its base being turned towards the acetabulum. In consequence of the changed situation of the bones of the pelvis, its different diameters undergo an essential devia- tion from the natural state, the superior aper- tures of the pelvis are commonly somewhat oblique, and the pelvis is broader on the affected side from before backwards.* The muscles in advanced cases are in a state of atrophy, of a greenish hue, and often matted together; sometimes they form the walls of scrofulous symptomatic abscesses, containing a thin serous pus mixed with flakes ; sometimes the pus is inodorous, of ordinary character. Usually the contents of the abscess make their way to the skin, more rarely to the mucous surfaces. In more advanced cases these ab- scesses are found to contain fetid air and puru- lent matter of a very bad quality; in these latter circumstances we discover either an ex- ternal or internal fistulous opening; the walls of the abscesses have collapsed, and have been converted into fistulous canals lined by false membranes ; these have become, as it were, the excretory canals, through which the matter has been discharged from the interior of the dis- eased joint, and through which sabulous mat- ter, small hard pieces of bone, or pieces as large as the epiphysis of the head of the femur, as elsewhere noticed, have made their way. The abscesses are found, on dissection of those who have died of morbus coxae strumosa?, pointing or to have opened in various directions. We have already stated that the capsular ligament has been found perforated by fistulous openings, and that in the advanced stage of the disease little or no vestige of the capsule is left. The abscesses, therefore, we meet with on dis- section may be considered as reservoirs for the matter which proceeds from the carious bones ; occasionally, no doubt, we shall find around the joint abscesses which have no communica- tion whatever with the diseased articulation: not only in the soft parts around the joint have we met with such isolated collections of matter, but also in the body of the os ilii, and in the centre of the trochanter major of the femur. We have given an account of an acute case of morbus coxae, in which a psoas abscess was found to have originated in a carious hip-joint. The communication of the carious bones with the interior of the sheath of the psoas took place through a small perforation in the hori- zontal ramus of the os innominatum. In this case also an abscess existed in the true pelvis, and death was the consequence of it, having burst into the vena cava. In Mr. Liston's collection there is a specimen shewing ex- tensive destruction of the acetabulum, head and neck of the femur, with several sinuses leading from the joint, and one in particular of large size, leading towards the rectum through the foramen ovale; there is also the rectum corresponding to this preparation, with a rounded opening sufficient to admit the point of the little finger, about an inch and a half above the anus. In this case the abscess lay across the pelvis; by one of its extremities it communicated with the diseased hip-joint through the foramen ovale and ulcerated cap- sular ligament, and by its posterior extremity with the rectum. The case of pelvic abscess I have so often adverted to was very similarly * Coulson, p. 42.