822 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. upon the iliacus internus and psoas muscles. The head and neck of the thigh-bone are flattened, and much changed in their form. Upon the pubes a new acetabulum is formed for the neck of the thigh-bone, for the head of the bone is above the level of the pubes. The new acetabulum extended upon each side of the neck of the bone, so as to lock it in a cer- tain direction upon the pubes. Poupart's ligament confines it on the fore-part; on the inner side of the neck of the bone passed the artery and vein, so that the head of the bone was seated between the crural sheath, and the anterior and inferior spinous process of the ilium. d. Luxation downwards and inwards into the foramen ovale.—When the femur is in a forced state of abduction, if violence be in any man- ner applied so as still further to exaggerate this movement, the head of the femur having pre- viously glided from above downwards in the acetabulum to its utmost, applies itself to the interior of the capsular ligament, which it stretches; if the force be continued the capsule soon gives way, and the head of the femur, bursting through the rent, is dislocated and lodged in front of the obturator foramen. The symptoms by which we recognize this accident are very well marked, as the limb in this dislocation is two inches longer than the other. The body is bent forwards owing to the psoas and iliacus internus muscles being put upon the stretch (fig. 326). The knee is consi- derably advanced; if the body be erect it is widely separated from the other, and cannot be brought without great difficulty towards the middle line or made to touch the other knee, owing to the extension of the glutaei and pyriform muscles. The foot, though widely separated from the other, is generally neither turned outwards nor inwards, although it varies a little in this respect in different instances, but the position of the foot does not in this case mark the accident. The adductor muscles are elongated and form a round prominent line which extends from the pubes to the middle of the thigh. The foot and the knee are turned outwards because the adductor and the other muscles which execute the movement of rotation outwards are on the stretch and elongated. The thigh cannot be adducted, and when we wish to communicate this movement to the limb the patient feels severe pains because of the tension which the glutaei and rotators outwards suffer. The reason of the flexion of the leg is two-fold; first to relax the hamstring muscles which are put upon the stretch by the dislocation, and to establish an approach to an equality in the length of the limb. When we examine closely the injured hip, we notice a considerable hollow at the upper and outer part of the thigh where the great trochanter is normally seen projecting, and a depression is noticed below the centre of Pou- part's ligament. The head of the dislocated bone can be felt occasionally at the inner and outer parts of the thigh towards the perineum. The position of the head of the bone is below Fig. 326. Luxation into the foramen ovale. the acetabulum and a little anterior to it. The bent position of the body, the separated knees, and the increased length of the limb constitute the striking and characteristic features of this rare accident. That excellent practical surgeon, Mr. Hey of Leeds, had not during a period of public and private practice for thirty-eight years seen a case of this accident of luxation downwards and inwards into the foramen ovale, until in the year 1797 three patients were brought into the infirmary of Leeds. In one of the best marked examples of this accident the dislocated thigh appeared much thicker at the superior part than the other; the adductor muscles, it appears, were upon the stretch, and the inguinal hollow we can collect was effaced (perhaps by the tension of the skin and effusion). Mr. Hey says, the head of the bone could not be dis- tinctly felt through the muscles; yet, from the appearance and the touch, it was sufficiently evident that the head of the bone lay upon the great foramen of the os innominatum. It seemed probable that it had passed so far from the acetabulum as to be in contact with the descending part of the os pubis. There was in this case a considerable hollow at the upper and outer part of the thigh where the great trochanter is usually felt projecting. The following case of dislocation of the