883 INSECTA. were not prepared to meet with anything like an approach to the same number in a perfect insect. In the female of the Gryllotalpa vulgaris we have found nine distinct segments in the abdomen, besides the post-scuteHum, which resembles a tenth one in a rudimen- tary condition on the dorsal surface between the meta-thorax and base of the abdomen. In the male of the same species there are also nine distinct segments, but the penultimate and ante-penultimate are in a rudimentary con- dition, corresponding to those in the female Forficula. The post-scutellum at the base of the meta-thorax is as much developed as in the female, and is very distinct as a portion of the meta-thorax. We have also found the same number in a foreign species, Gryl- lotalpa didactyla. The similarity in the num- ber of segments thus appears to connect the Gryllotulpa; with the Forficula. These va- riations in perfect insects lead us to hesitate in admitting thirteen to be the normal number of segments, especially as we shall presently endeavour to show that the head itself is com- posed of more than one. The varied forms of the body in the different classes are entirely dependent upon the extent to which these primary segments are developed, whatever be their true number, and chiefly upon the greater or less development of parts of the first four seg- ments. But whether the changes in these seg- ments be greater or less, they are always in reference to the habits or economy of the mdi- dividual. Thus in the Coleoptera and Orthop- tera the parts of the mouth are nearly equally developed, and are admirably fitted for all the purposes of manducation. In the Lcpidoptera some of these parts are developed to their greatest possible extent, the consequence of which is that the neighbouring parts become atro- phied, and leave scarcely a trace of their former existence. This is the case with the mandibles and lips, the most conspicuous parts of the mouth in the larvae of this order. In the imago the maxillasare greatly elongated, and altered in shape, to form a flexible tube, because the per- fect insects are destined to take their food in a liquid state, and because still further, the food is produced in situations where it would be in- accessible to the insect, were the mouth of the same form as in those the food of which re- quires to be comminuted by the jaws, before it is passed into the stomach.* Then again in the same segment in which the oral organs are nearly equally developed, other parts are often enlarged, and in like manner encroach upon those which are in immediate connexion with them. In the rapacious Neuroptera which obtain their food solely by means of the organs of vision, and are constantly hawking in search of it in the brightest light, the corneas of the eyes are expanded over nearly two-thirds of the whole surface of the head, and in consequence reduce to their minimum of development those parts which are most conspicuous in the head of Coleoptera, which usually obtain their food * See Newman on the External Anatomy of Insects, p. 13. by the aid of other senses. The causes which regulate the development of the segments of the thorax are exactly those which influence the development of the head. In the mole-cricket, which burrows in the earth for its food, the second segment, or pro-thorax, with its ap- pendages the anterior extremities, is enlarged to its greatest extent, because it is necessary that nearly the whole strength of the insect should be concentrated in this segment, to enable it to dig its way with ease and rapidity through a resisting medium, while the third and fourth segments, which bear the organs of flight, in this species of minor importance, are smaller than in most other insects. In the Coleoptera, Geotrupidic, which not only burrow in the earth, but require to be trans- ported from place to place in quest of food, the pro-thoracic, and the wing-bearing meta- thoracic segments are largely developed, and form a great proportion of die body, and the intermediate segment, the meso-thoracic, en- croached upon by both, is almost atrophied between them. On the other hand, in the Hy- menoptera, Lepidoptera, and Diptera, in which the principal organs of locomotion are the anterior wings, the meso-thoracic segment is enormously enlarged, and the pro-thorax and meta-thorax are reduced to a size of compara- tive insignificance. These important modifications of structure, by means of which every part of the body is beautifully adapted to the habits and wants of the individual, and the insect itself becomes an agent employed by nature to work certain necessary effects on other parts of Creation, are accomplished during the metamorphoses by cer- tain changes in the form of parts of the external teguments. By this means many insects which in their naked larva condition scarcely at all differ in their general external appearance, are made to assume forms, when they have undergone their metamorphoses, so totally distinct from each other as to be instantly recognisable by the most unpractised observer. The primary divi- sion of the body into segments is effected simply by a duplicative of the external covering. One margin of the fold is carried over the other, and a simple telescope articulation is produced. In this way the body of the larva in its earliest condition is first divided into its normal num- ber of segments, and by a continuation of the same process, as we have before shown, into distinct regions. The articulations of the limbs and organs of manducation are as much the result of changes in the form of the external surface as the divi- sion of the body into segments or regions. The folding, the intussusception, the depression, or the extension of certain portions of the inte- gument, when solidified, at the completion of the metamorphoses, serve all the offices, and become parts of the different kinds of articula- tions, which in principle are precisely similar in insects to some of the more important ones in the Vertebrata. In the simple approximation of two surfaces, completely solidified, and allowing of no motion between them, we discover the common sutural connexion of some of the 3 m 2