GENERATION. 444 junctions and ceremonies relating to marriage and concubinage, are to be regarded rather as a picture of the state of civilization among the different people to which they have belonged, and as the result of local situation and circum- stances, than a consequence of their physical organization or natural endowments, as some would have us to believe. But the considera- tion of these modifications in the customs and habits of different nations belongs more appro- priately to the province of the political econo- mist than of the physiologist. 4. Kelution of reproduction to the brain.— In how far the sexual feelings just spoken of, and the reproductive function as a whole, are connected with the brain or any of its parts, we leave to be discussed by others. We shall only remark in this place respecting this connection, that the mental feeling and local affection rela- ting to sex are very intimately associated toge- ther; on the one hand, the local irritation of the genital organs exciting mental desire, and on the other, the erection and other signs of affection of the sexual organs being immediately caused by all those ideas and passions of the mind which bear a relation to sex. In the same manner as the action of the heart, the flow of the blood in some of the bloodvessels, the processes of digestion, respiration, and secre- tion are modified by mental emotions, the sexual function may be regarded as subject to their influence, and consequently subject to modifi- cation from the condition of the mind or brain. In the phrenological system, as is well known, it is held that the cerebellum is that particular part of the encephalon which presides over the sexual function,—in other words, that sexual feeling belongs to the cere- bellum as its sensorium commune, to which impressions of a sexual kind proceed, and from which emanates sexual desire, as well as the influence under which the reproductive organs execute their appropriate functions. The proofs alleged in favour of the phrenological hypothesis are principally of the following kind : 1st, that the back of the head and neck, and particularly the cerebellum, is largest in those of the human species who shew much sexual love, and among animals in those in which sexual feeling and productive power are greatest; 2d, that local affections of the genital organs, and variations in the degree of sexual desire, frequently coincide with congenital deviations from the natural form and structure of the cerebellum, and morbid organic changes of that organ, such as inflammation, suppuration, effusion, tu- mours, and softening, or violent injuries, such as wounds producing the destruction or re- moval of portions of the same part of the brain.* We leave to others the examination of the truth of this view, observing merely that we are not inclined to adopt the hypo- * The proofs of the connection of the cerebellum with the sexual function may be more fully stated as follows: 1st. The coincidence of barrenness or impotence with hydrocephalus, ramollissement, suppuration, or wounds of the head, and in particular of the back part and cerebellum. thesis as already established upon sufficiently accurate or extensive data; and we would re- mark that the comparative anatomy of the brain (in which, rather than in experiments on animals, we should feel disposed to place much reliance, from the acknowledged difficulty of making correct deductions as to function from the effects of morbid alteration or artificial injury of the encephalon) affords very few argu- ments in favour of the view now alluded to, and furnishes several facts which militate strongly against it. 5. Distinction of species. Mules.—The in- stinctive feelings which lead to the union of male and female animals of the same species may be looked upon as one of the means pro- vided by nature for the distinct preservation of each specific race. So general indeed is the law that animals of one species propagate with one another only, that, as we already remarked, this circumstance alone has been adopted by some as the true specific character. We shall see reason, however, to doubt its sufficiency. While the natural repugnance which the males and females of different species or genera have to propagate together may be regarded as one of the most powerful means by which the distinction of species is insured, we must not lose sight of other circumstan- ces which contribute to the same effect. Among these may be mentioned, in the first place, the unfruitfulness which generally attends the union of different species when it has oc- curred ; then the difference in the size of ani- mals, the discordant properties of the semen of the one and ova of the other, the difference of season at which nearly allied animals come into heat, as well as many other circumstances which put a bar to the extension of races by promiscuous propagation of species or genera. In the state of domesticity, however, this, 2d. The coincidence of excited states of the re- productive organs, as priapism, nymphomania, and satyriasis, with inflammation of the same parts. 3d. Instances occurring in birds (mentioned by Serres) of cerebellar apoplexy from the persistence of unsatisfied sexual desire. 4th. Coincidence of cerebellar apoplexy, inflam- mation, &c. and diminution of the sensorial power, with over-exertion of the sexual powers, excess in venereal pleasures, &c. 5th. Large size of the cerebellum or upper and back part of the neck in those individuals among the human species or among animals in which the sexual desire and reproductive power are greatest, 6th. The reverse being the case in those in whom the function is inactive; as the small size of the back of the neck, &c. in castrated animals. In endeavouring to ascertain the value of this kind of evidence adduced in favour of the phrenolo- gical view, we must consider well the nature of the alleged facts themselves, and weigh them candidly against facts of an opposite tendency adduced on the other side, such as those cases of small size or absence of the cerebellum, in which the sexual propensities have been highly developed, and the converse cases ; and we must, at the same time, not lose sight of those other experiments and obser- vations which would tend to shew either that the cerebellum is intimately connected with other func- tions than the reproductive, or that the sexual powers are influenced by the condition of other parts of the brain besides the cerebellum.