976 INSECTA. like the omentum of the higher animals, and they are extended also among the muscles; between which they occupy the interstices, both between the different layers and the tegumen- tary skeleton. They do not form in the abdo- men one continuous surface like the mesentery, but are simply attached to each other, and to the surrounding structures by constricted por- tions, which allow of the freest communication. They are most abundant in the abdomen, but are extended into the thorax and cover more particularly the nervous cord. There are but very few in the region of the head or in the extremities. We have never yet seen them in actual communication with bloodvessels, although we have observed them attached by minute points along the whole course of the dorsal vessel, in the abdomen, as if they were in some way connected with the return of the blood to the auricular space that appears to surround that organ. It is amongst these vesicles in particular that the Malpighian or so-called biliary vessels extend around the alimentary canal, and the tracheae ramify among them in the greatest abundance, but we have not observed them distributed over the sides of individual vesicles as over some other structures. These circumstances lead us to suspect that the vesicular structures are in some way con- nected with the circulatory system, although they cannot be regarded either as arteries or veins. May they not serve the purpose of lymphatics, while they become at the same time depositaries of the nutrient matter? Oken and Treviranus appear to have considered them as analogous to the liver, and the latter author has supported his opinion by the existence of a somewhat analogous structure in the scorpion, which is believed to be the liver of that animal. That they are most intimately connected with the function of nutrition is proved by the cir- cumstance that they exist in the greatest abundance at the period when the larva ceases to feed, just before it enters the pupa state; that their contents are gradually diminished during that condition ; and that they disappear most rapidly towards the latter end of the pupa state, when the organs of generation are in the most rapid progress of development. After the insect has entered the perfect state their contents have nearly disappeared. Added to these circumstances we have observed that, during the earliest periods of the larva state, the quantity of adipose substance contained in the vesicles is very small, and also that in all perfect insects that pass the winter in a state of hybernation the quantity of adipose matter is much greater than in those which do not live through the summer, while it has nearly all disappeared in these insects after they have left their hybernacula in the spring. We have remarked these circumstances particularly in the later broods of butterflies, which being hatched at the end of autumn pass the winter as hybernants and appear again in the spring, and we have constantly noticed the same thing in the large females of Bombus terrestris, which live through the winter. From these circum- stances there can be no doubt but that the adipose matter is intimately connected with the function of nutrition and the circulatory system, while the free communication which we have constantly observed to exist between the vesicles seems to favour our opinion that they may serve the office of lymphatic vessels. That they cannot be supposed to answer the purpose of a liver seems evident from the increase and diminution of their contents at certain periods, while their apparent connexion with the Mal- pighian vessels seems to support the opinion we have advanced, more especially if these be regard- ed as uriniferous rather than as biliary organs. Circulatory system.—It was formerly sup- posed that there was a total absence of a circu- latory motion of the fluids in insects, and that the whole body was nourished by a simple imbibition of fluids that occupied the cavities of its different regions. This opinion was strengthened by the circumstance of the air- vessels being distributed to every separate structure and ramifying extensively even upon the most delicate organs, a fact so remarkable that it appeared entirely to obviate the necessity for a motion of the fluids, and led to the pro- mulgation of Cuvier's beautifully ingenious theory, that as the blood could not be carried to be aerated in a separate organ or lung, the air was in consequence brought into contact with it throughout the whole body. But the dis- covery of Carus in 1827 of an actual motion of the fluids, and subsequently the discovery by Straus Durckheim of a structure in the dorsal vessel, which clearly indicates the true use of this organ as a centre of circulation, have sufficiently shown that insects do not differ from other animals in the absence of a circulation of their fluids, whatever modifica- tions may exist in the form and situation of the organs by which it is accomplished. The heart or great dorsal vessel (fig. 433, A) is an elongated tapering organ, which, in every insect, occupies the middle line of the dorsal surface of the body, and extends from the posterior part of the penultimate segment of the abdomen, through the thorax, into the first segment or head of the animal. That portion of it which is situated in the abdominal region is the proper analogue of the heart of other other animals, and is composed of a certain number of separate compartments or chambers (a). It is distinctly muscular, and is of con- siderable diameter, and is that part which is actively employed in circulating the blood. The other part which extends through the thorax is much narrower than the preceding, and is not divided into chambers, but is one conti- nuous vessel that becomes gradually narrower as it passes through the thorax to the head, where it is divided into separate branches (B). This part is less actively employed than the abdominal, being only the great vessel through which the blood is sent from the muscular heart to the system, and, consequently, repre- sents the aorta. In the structure of the abdo- minal portion or true heart we recognize three separate coats, two of which are most distinctly marked, and form the substance of the organ; but the third or external one is very delicate and not easily observed. Straus Durckheim recognises but two distinct structures, the