850 ARTERIA INNOMINATA. more particularly the point of division of the vessel,* which will also correspond nearly to the centre of a line drawn from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the umbilieus.f The practicability and success of these ope- rations have been so long established that they do not now require to be insisted upon. When the external iliac has been tied below the origin of the epigastric and circumflex ilii branches, the circulation of the limb is main- tained through the communications of the branches of the internal iliac with those of the femoral, of which the principal have been ascertained by Sir A. Cooper} to be the gluteal with the external circumflex, the obturator with the internal circumflex, and the ischiatic with the profunda, and through those of the circumflex iliac with the same. (See Femoral Artery.) When the ligature has been applied above the origin of these branches, the circulation is esta- blished also through their communications with the internal iliac, the internal mammary, the inferior intercostal and lumbar arteries. The ligature of the internal iliac artery can cause little interruption of the supply of blood to the parts to which it is distributed ; its com- munications are so numerous and free, exter- nally and inferiorly with the external iliac and femoral arteries; inward with that of the other side, and upward with the aorta through the middle sacral and hemorrhoidal arteries, that the obstruction of the main trunk can affect it but little. When the primitive iliac has been tied the circulation must be restored by means of the communication which exists between the arte- ries of the upper and lower extremities through the internal mammary and epigastric arteries, of that between the aorta and the iliac arteries, through the intercostal, lumbar, middle sacral, hemorrhoidal, and the branches of the latter, and of that between the iliac arteries of both sides. For Bibliography, see Anatomy and Artery. (B. Alcock.) ARTERIA INNOMINATA, (in human anatomy) Fr. Tronc brach'w-cephalique. The innominata or brachiocephalic artery is situated to the anterior and right side of the thorax, extending from the arch of the aorta to the sterno-clavicular articulation. Of the three large vessels proceeding from the arch of the aorta, the innominata is the most anterior, the shortest, but of the largest calibre; it takes its origin at a point corres- ponding and very nearly parallel to, the upper edge of the cartilage of the second rib almost immediately from that part of the arch of the aorta where it alters its direction from the right towards the left side, or rather from the com- mencement of what is termed the transverse portion of the arch, and hence the cause of its being at this point not only to the right side but also anterior and rather superior to the other two, which arise from the remainder of * Guthrie, t Harrison. J iVledico-Cliirurgical Transactions, vol. iv. the transverse division of the arch, the left carotid and subclavian arteries. It imme- diately ascends obliquely upwards, outwards, and very slightly backwards, to opposite the. right sterno-clavicular articulation, where it divides into the right sub-clavian and carotid arteries, the latter of which, although the smal- lest in diameter, appears from direction to be its continuation. The innominata, therefore, is but a short trunk, rarely exceeding from an inch and a half to two inches in length. Ne- vertheless instances are upon record in which it has attained above two inches and a half; but these may be considered more in the light of anomalies than regular occurrences. We now proceed to consider the various re- lations which this vessel bears to the several important organs in its neighbourhood, and we shall then the more readily be able to account for the many distressing symptoms usually accompanying its enlargement. At its origin, it lies upon the trachea and at its division cor- responds, although at a considerable distance, to the longus colli muscle separated from it by glands and cellular tissue. Internally, or on its left side from below upwards, are the com- mencement of the left carotid artery and the trachea, the latter, however, lying upon a plane posterior to the artery, a quantity of cellular tissue and glands being usually met with between them. Externally or to its right the relations are more complicated and consist of parts of very great importance. It is here connected to the right pleura and the middle and inferior cardiac branches of the great sym- pathetic nerve; the internal jugular vein lies above it and on its right side, whilst the right brachio-cephalic vein is to its right but some- what anterior. Behind this vein and crossing the subclavian artery at right angles very close to its origin, we find the pneumo-gastric nerve entering the thorax and giving back its recur- rent branch which winds round the subclavian artery; still more externally is the phrenic nerve conducted into the thorax upon the an- terior border of the anterior scajpnus muscle, and between the two latter the internal mam- mary branch of the subclavian artery. The parts covering the vessel are studied with greatest advantage from the integuments back- wards ; and the best method of effecting this is as follows, as it enables us at the same time to take a clear view of the attachment of the various layers of the cervical fascia to the first bone of the sternum and the inter-clavicular ligament. Having placed the subject with a block underneath the shoulders, and the head hanging down, thus drawing the vessel as much as possible out of the thorax, carry an incision of about five inches upwards, commencing at the middle of the sternum opposite the carti- lage of the second rib. Through this incision carry another of the same length at right angles, commencing at the left sterno-clavicular arti- culation, and extending along the right clavicle as far as its centre. This crucial incision should merely divide the skin, the triangular flaps of which are next to be raised and re-