766 HIBERNATION. * Phil. Trans, for 1809. '" I b. of nitrogen, See. causes; and it is equally manifested in its pe- culiar effects, only varying in degree and inten- sity. In giving a distinct idea of hibernation we must extend our views to the altered condition of each function in the animal economy, for this peculiar state is not limited to any special function or organ. It is, in fact, a treatise on physiology which should be written, compa- ring the state of each function and of each organ, in the hibernant or lethargic and in the active condition, a disquisition on sleep, indeed, in its various degrees, and in its effects in mo- difying the various functions. The first question then is,—what is sleep ? a question difficult, perhaps impossible, to an- swer, if we mean by it what is its nature or essence, but highly interesting to prosecute, if we mean what are its special phenomena and their mutual relations. In order to treat of sleep properly, I must first observe that, of the nervous system, of which it is primarily a modification, formerly divided into the cerebrospinal and the ganglio- nic, the first division must now be subdivided into the cerebral and the true spinal, the former being the exclusive seat of sensation, volition, &c.; the latter, the special source of certain actions now designated excito-motory, and ob- served in the orifices, the ingestors, the expul- sors, the sphincters, &c. Now it is the cere- bral system which sleeps, the true spinal re- taining all its energies. From this enunciation of the primary fact in sleep, we may trace the whole of the pheno- mena of this singular condition. In the state of activity, the cerebral system exerts a peculiar and continual influence over the true spinal, which ceases during sleep. In this manner the functions of the latter appear impaired ; the re- spiration especially, and with the respiration the circulation, with which it always maintains a certain relation, becomes slower, irregular, and suspended at intervals. These phenomena observable in ordinary sleep are still more re- markable in the deep sleep or lethargy of hibernation or diumation. In order that the effects of hibernation may be traced in relation to all the functions of the animal economy, I must enter into a few brief details relative to the arrangement of these functions and the order in which I propose to notice them. The most simple and natural arrangement of the functions appears to me to be the following :— I. Sanguification. 1. The ingestion and > cc , rpi j' *■ t of food. 2. The digestion .... J „ r™ r (a. of chyme. 3. The formation.... ^ 6fchJle. ., ( a. by the Iacteals. 4. Absorption | 6. bJ imbibition. 5. The organization of the blood. II. Respiration. - rrx, i .• S «• of oxygen. • 1. The absorption .. \ , f -; b B r (b. of nitrogen, &c. ••, a. of carbonic acid. 3. The results s a. augmented temperature. b. a direct ratio between the pulsations and respirations. c. an inverse ratio between the respiration and irrita- bility. 2. The exhalation III. The Circulation. 1. The pulmonic. 2. The systemic. 3. The cardiac or coronary. 4. The hepatic. 5. The splenic. 6. The circulation as the ( a. of nutrition. carrier lb. of temperature. IV. Defcecation. 1. Re-absorption by the lymphatics. f a. by the lungs. « b. by the skin. 2. Excretion <* c. by the liver. J d. by the kidneys, v e. by the intestines. V. The Nervous System. 1. The cerebral, or the system of a. The sensations, the senses. b. Volition, spontaneous motion. 2. The true spinal or excito-motory, or the system of a. The orifices. b. Ingestion. c. Expulsion. d. The sphincters. 3. The ganglionic. VI. The Muscular System. 1. The irritability. 2. The motility. I proceed to trace the influence of sleep, and of the deeper sleep of hibernation upon these various functions, beginning with the former. I. Of sleep.—It was first ascertained experi- mentally by Messrs. Allen and Pepys, that the quantity of respiration is diminished in ordinary sleep.* The acts of respiration are obviously less frequent and less regular, being frequently suspended for a moment and renewed by a deep inspiration. The animal frame becomes more susceptible of the influence of cold. It is most probable that, during this condition, the irrita- bility of the muscular system is augmented, and that this is one of the final objects of sleep; experiments, however, are still wanting to establish a fact in reference to ordinary sleep, which is clearly proved in regard to the sleep of hibernating animals, and the deeper sleep or lethargy of hibernation. I shall now proceed to treat of the sleep of hibernating animals. II. Of the sleep of hibernating animals.—In the sleep of the hibernating animal, the respira- tion is more or less impaired : if the animal be placed in circumstances which best admit of observation, the acts of respiration will be found to have greatly diminished; if it be placed in the pneumatometer, little alteration is