HEART. 618 Williams that we owe the first direct experi- ments in support of it. In one experiment he ascertained that the second sound was louder over the origin of the large arteries than over the surface of the ventricles, while it was the reverse with the first sound; that pressure upon the origin of the aorta and pulmonary artery suspended the second sound ; and that the second sound disappeared after the auricles had been laid open, although the first conti- nued. In a second experiment* we find the fol- lowing observations stated:—" Observation 6. A common dissecting hook was passed into the pulmonary artery, and was made to draw back and thus prevent the closure of the semi- lunar valves; the second sound was evidently weakened and a hissing murmur accompanied it. A shoemaker's curved awl was then passed into the aorta so as to act in the same way on the aortic valves. The second sound now entirely censed and was replaced by a hissing. Observation 7. The hook and the awl were withdrawn ; the second sound returned and the hissing ceased. Observation 8. The experi- ment 6th was iepeated with the same result, and whilst Dr. Hope listened I withdrew the awl from the aorta. He immediately said, ' Now I hear the second sound.' I then removed the hook from the pulmonary artery ; Dr. Hope said, ' Now the second sound is stronger and the murmur has ceased.'" The Dublin Committee have repeated and con- firmed these experiments of Dr. Williams. In tlieir experiments one of the valves in each artery was transfixed and confined to the side of the vessel by a needle, and the second sound disappeared ; on withdrawing the needles they re-appeared. As the second sound thus appears to be pro- duced by the shock of the blood upon the semi- lunar valves, its intensity must, in a great measure, depend upon the diastole of the ven- tricle drawing part of the blood back upon them, but perhaps more particularly upon the elasticity of the large arteries returning suddenly upon their contents during the diastole of the ventricles, when the distending force of the ventricles has been withdrawn. We would therefore expect that the second sound should be louder in those whose aorta retains its elas- ticity, than in those (a circumstance sufficiently common in old age) in whom, from a morbid alteration of the structure of its coats, the elasticity is either lost or greatly diminished. This is an observation which, as far as I know, has not yet been verified; but my friend Dr. VV. Henderson informs me that he is positive from numerous observations that the second sound is louder in young than in older persons ; but whether this is in the exact ratio of the change upon the elasticity of the coats of the large vessels he is not at present prepared to say. * These experiments were performed upon asses, in which the sensation was first suspended by a dose of wourara poison and then maintaining arti- ficial respiration. In this manner the heart con- tinued to act upwards of an hour after the com- mencement of the artificial respiration. Bibliography.—as a complete bibliography of the Anatomy and Physiology of the Heart would include all the systematic works on Anatomy and Physiology, we shall here confine ourselves to the enumeration of those works and memoirs which treat exclusively or in a prominent manner of the normal anatomy or functions of that organ. Harvey, De motu cordis, Rot. 1661. Lower (Richard), Tractus de corde, &c. Lond. 1669. Pechlinus (John Nicol), Dissertat. de fabrica et usu cordis, Riel. 1676. Bartholin (Casp.), Dis- sert, de cordis structura et usu, Hafnise, 1678. Charleton ( Walter), The organic structure of the heart, Lond. 1683. .Morton (C), Dissert, de corde, Lugd. Batav. 1683. Bellini (Laurent.), Opuscula aliquot de urinis, de motu cordis, &c. Lugd. Bat. 1696. 4to. Chirac (Peter), De motu cordis adversaria analytical Montp. 1698. Vieus- sens, Nouvelles Decouvertes sur le cceur, Montp. 1706. Traite nouveau de la structure du cceur, &c. Toulouse, 1715. Thebesius, De circnlo sanguinis in corde, Leipsick, 1708. Ibid. De circulo san- guinis per cor, Leipsick, 1759. Borelli (J. A.), De motu animalium, Lugd. Bat. 1710. Winslow, Surles fibres du cceur et sur ses valves, Mem. do I'Acad. Roy. de Paris, 1711. Morgagni (Jo.Bapt.), Adversaria Anatomica, Lugd. Bat. 1723. Santo- rinus, Observ. Anatomies, Venise, 1724, cap. viii. Ruysch, Epist. Anat. problemata decima de auri- cularum cordis earumque fibraruin metriciam struc- tura, Amsterdam, 1725. Lancisi (Jo. Mar.), De motu cordis, Sec, Rom. 1728. fol. Op. Om. torn. iv. 1745. 4to. Walther, De structura cordis auricu- larum, Leipsick, 1738, reprinted in Haller's Dis- put. Anat. torn. ii. 1747. Stuart (Alex.) De motu et structura musculari, Lond. 1738. Examen de la question si le coeur se raccourcit on s'alonge lorsqu'il se contracte, Mem. de I'Acad. de Paris, vol. i. p. 114. 1743. Senac, Traite de la struc- ture du coeur, de son action, &c. Paris, 1749. torn. i. and Appendix to torn. ii. Lieutaud, Observ. Anatom. sur le coeur, dans Memoires de I'Acad. de Paris, 1752-54. Haller (Albertus), Memoires sur la nature sensible et irritable des parties du corps animal, Laus. 1756. torn. i. Ibid. Elementa Physiologic, torn, i 1757. This last work, and the Traite de la Structure du Cceur, &c. of Senac, contain a most accurate and detailed account of all that was known upon the Anatomy and Physiology of the Heart before and at the time they were written. Wolff ( C. F.), Dissertationes de ordine fibrarum muscularum cordis, in Acta Acad. Petro- polit. 1780-1792. Abernethy (John), Observations on the Foramina Thebesii of the Heart, Phil. Trans. 1798. Legallois, Dictionnaire des Sc. Med. torn. v. 1813. Gerdy (P. N.j, Journal Compl. du Diction, des Sc. Med. torn. x. 1821. Recherches, Discussions, et Propositions d'Anatomie, Physio- logie, &c. 1823. The plates given by Gerdy in the latter work have been copied by M. Jules-Cloquet in his Planches d'Anat. de l'Homme, Sec. torn. iv. Vaust (J. F.), Recherches sur la structure et les mouvemens du coeur, Liege, 1821. Memoirs exclusively on the relative sixe of the several cavities of tJie heart.—Helvetius, Sur Pinegalite de capacite qui se trouve entre les organs destines a la circulation du sang dans le corps de l'homme, &c. Mem. de I'Acad. de Paris, 1718. Weiss, De dextro cordis ventriculo post mortem ampliore, Altdorf, 1745. Avrivillius, De cavit. cordis inaequali amplitudine, &c. Haller, Disp. Anat. Sel. vol. viii. pars ii. p. 257. 1751. Sabatier, Mem. de I'Acad. de Paris, 1774. Treatises exclusively on the nerves of the heart.— Neubauer (J. E.), Descriptio nervorum cardiaca- rum, Frankfort et Leipsick, 1772. Andersch, De- script, nerv. cord, in torn. ii. Ludwig Script. Neurol. 1792. Behrends (Jo. B. 0.), Dissertatio qua. demonstratur cor nervis carere, Mayence, 1792 ; reprinted in torn. iii. Ludwig Script. Neu- rol, torn. iii. 1793. Zerenner, An cor nervis careat iisque carere possit ? Erford, 1794 ; reprinted in