596 HEART. The left middle cardiac nerve is generally smaller than the right, and is frequently partly formed by a branch from the inferior cervical ganglion. It passes behind the arch of the aorta, sometimes in the form of a single trunk, sometimes double, at other times triple, and generally throws itself into the upper and left part of the cardiac plexus. Cardiac plexus (great cardiac plexus of Haller) is placed behind the arch of the aorta and in front of the lower part of the trachea, extending from the arteria innominata to the right branch of the pulmonary artery, and is formed by the convergence of nearly the whole of the cardiac nerves of both sides, but more particularly of the middle cardiac nerves. There is occasionally a distinct ganglion at the junction of these nerves; more generally there is only a plexiform arrangement. From this plexus a very few branches pass upon the ante- rior surface of the aorta ( cardiuci superficiales aorta), and anastomose with the right coronary plexus : some twigs also pass backwards to anastomose with the bronchial plexuses. By far the greater part of the cardiac plexus pro- ceeds to the heart in the form of two large divisions to form the right and left coronary plexuses which accompany the coronary arte- ries. Where the right branch leaves the lower part of the plexus there is a gangliform swelling (ganglion of Wrisberg), which is occasionally, however, very indistinct. This ganglion fur- nishes the greater part of the superficial plexus of the aorta which we have just described. This great right cardiac branch divides into two parts; the smaller passes between the aorta and pulmonary artery to reach the right side of the origin of the pulmonary artery, where it attaches itself to the right coronary artery to form the principal part of the right coronary plexus ; the other and larger portion creeps under the pul- monary artery to the posterior part of the heart, to assist in forming the left coronary plexus. The great left cardiac branch, which principally comes from the upper part of the cardiac plexus, and at first passes from right to left posterior to the ductus arteriosus, after which it is joined by other smaller branches which pass in front of the ductus arteriosus. It also divides into two branches ; the smaller passes between the aorta and pulmonary artery, and reaches the origin of the right coronary artery, and throws itself into the right coronary plexus ; the larger bends round the posterior surface of the pulmo- nary artery to reach the left coronary artery, where it forms, with the larger branch of the right, the left coronary plexus. There is thus a free interchange of filaments between the nerves of both sides. The left coronary plexus is considerably larger than the right, in propor- tion as the left side of the heart is thicker than the right. These coronary plexuses consist of a number of minute filaments which accom- pany the ramifications of the coronary arteries everywhere, and are distributed upon the sur- face of the auricles as well as upon the ventri- cles. They anastomose with each other upon the anterior and posterior surface of the heart. All the nerves of the heart enter into its sub- stance upon the surface of the arteries, and cannot be traced beyond the second or third division of the arteries. The nerves of the heart are generally considered to be small com- pared to the size of the organ.* Though the nerves of the heart are not equal in size to those of the tongue and eye, yet Scarpa is doubtful if they are not equal to the nerves of the other voluntary muscles, as, for example, the muscles of the arm. It must be remem- bered that the minute subdivision and diffusion of these nerves over a large extent of surface, by which many of them can only be seen after a minute examination, causes them to appear of less size than what they collectively really are. Soemmerring maintained that very few of the nerves of the heart were distributed to the mus- cular tissue of the heart, and that they more properly belonged to the arteries : " nervi car- diaci proprie ad arterias, ad aortam et arterias coronarias pertinent, eaque filia subtilia nervo- rum parum sibi (cordi) constant."\ Behrends, the pupil of Soemmering, affirmed that not a single twig went to the muscular tissue of the heart, but that they were entirely distributed on the coats of the arteries.J The announcement of these opinions, bearing so directly as they do upon the Hallerian doctrine of the nature of irritability, so keenly agitated immediately be- fore throughout Europe, could not fail to create considerable sensation at the time, and it is probable that to this we owe the splendid work of Scarpa upon the nerves of the heart, which has entirely set the question concerning the dis- tribution of these nerves at rest. Scarpa has shown that when followed to their minute dis- tribution, the nerves of the other muscles ac- company the arteries in the same manner as the nerves of the heart, and that the nerves of the heart only differ from those of voluntary motion in this, that the nerves accompanying the arteries of the voluntary muscles are firmer and thicker than those of the heart. Bloodvessels of the heart.—The heart is sup- plied with blood by the two coronary arteries, for a description of which see Aorta. The blood is returned by the coronary veins. The branches of the coronary veins generally accom- pany those of the arteries. They are divided into the larger coronary vein and smaller coro- nary veins. Great coronary vein (vena coronaria maxima cordis). — This vein is formed by several branches, three of which surpass the others considerably in size. One of these lies in the anterior longitudinal groove ; another runs along the obtuse or left margin of the heart; and the third, which may be replaced by two or three * Bichat in his Anatomie Gencrale says, " that the nervous mass intended for the muscles of orga- nic life is much inferior to that of the voluntary muscles. The heart and deltoid muscle, on being compared together, display in this respect a very considerable difference." t Corporis humani labrica, torn. v. \ Dissertatio qua demonstratur cor nervis carere. After making this general statement, he admits, in one part of his treatise, that he has (raced two twigs of the cardiac nerves into the substance of the heart.