EYE. 189 Fig. 113. Regiee Gottingenses, gives the following account of the discovery. " On the 27th of January, 1791, while I examined the eyes of a very fine and healthy young man, a few hours previously drowned in the Rhine, being per- fectly fresh, transparent, and full, and sup- ported in an appropriate fluid, with the in- tention of exhibiting a perfect specimen of the retina to my pupils in the anatomical theatre, I so clearly detected in the posterior part of the retina, which was expanded without a single fold, on account of the perfect state of the eye, a round yellow spot, that I was convinced it was a natural appearance, and not a colour produced by any method of preparation. In examining this spot more accurately, I perceived in its centre a little hole occupying the situation of the true centre of the retina. With the same care I examined the other eye and found it exactly similar. I then communicated the discovery to my pupils in the public demonstrations." " In this precise spot, or in the very centre of the re- tina, is found an actual deficiency of the me- dullary layer, or a real hole perfectly round, with a defined margin a fourth of a line in diameter." " The transparent vitreous humour and black pigment are so clearly seen through this hole, that there can be no doubt that it is a real aperture, which being situated in the centre of the retina may be appro- priately termed the foramen centrule. Sur- rounding this J'oramen centrale the remark- able yellow colour resembling that of gum guita is so disposed that it appears much deeper toward the margin, and totally dis- appears at a distance of a line. This colour varies much according to the age of the individual, being very faint in infants, much deeper at puberty, on account of the thickness and whiteness of the retina at that period, appearing of a deep yellow brownish or crocus colour. In more ad- vanced age the colour is less intense, prin- cipally on account of the diminished whiteness of the retina, which also appears extenuated at that period. Even the choroid, where it corresponds to this fora- men, sometimes appears a little deeper- coloured." In the paper above alluded to, published in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, I have given the result of some careful in- quiries into the structure of this part, from which the following observations are ex- tracted. " Sommerring describes it as a hole in the retina with a yellow margin, mentioning as accidental a fold which occupies the situation of this hole and tends to conceal it, and thus accounting for its remaining so long unnoticed. This appearance is so constant and remarkable, that its existence may be very rationally considered essential to correct vision, and it therefore becomes an interesting object of speculation. The circumstances which it seems important to ascertain, are, whe- ther it is actually a hole in the retina with a yellow margin; whether, in addition to this hole, the retina is folded or puckered in at this part; or whether the appearance of a hole arises from a deficiency of the medullary layer of the retina without any orifice in its vascular layer. Both Sommerring himself and many others seem to consider that the fold is accidental and the consequences of changes occurring after death. It is here necessary to call to mind what those changes are with respect to the retina. If the eye had become flaccid previous to dissection, the retina on being exposed presents an irre- gular surface, arising from a number of folds diverging from the optic nerve as from a centre, and evidently produced by the loss of support from the partial evaporation of the fluid of the vitreous humour. These folds, however, never observe any regular form, or preserve precise situations, and may be obliterated by changing the position of the eye in the water. They disappear altogether after the part has remained some time in water, in consequence of the vitreous humour becoming again distended from imbibing the fluid in which it is im- mersed. It however requires no very great care or experience to distinguish between those accidental folds and the peculiar one in ques- tion. tlf the examination be made from with- out, removing the sclerotic and choroid behind,