INSECTA. 874 any surface in walking these hooks attach themselves, and are. released again when the sole of the foot is contracted, previously to the caterpillar's raising it to make another step forwards. In the Sphingida the abdominal feet are formed of two parts, the external one, broad, semicircular, and edged with minute hooks, directed inwards like a claw, and the internal one smaller, with its hooks directed outwards, so that two parts of the foot are opposed to each other, and grasp the surface upon which they are walking like the foot of a bird. It is with these that the Sphinx at- taches itself so firmly to the stems and branches of plants, that it is often almost impossible to remove it without injury. In the Sphinx there are four pairs of these legs, attached to the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth segments, besides one pair at the thirteenth, or anal ex- tremity. In some Dipterous larva the abdomi- nal legs are the only organs of locomotion—as in the rat-tailed larva of Eristalis tenax. In every instance these abdominal legs are only processes of the exterior covering of the insect, furnished externally with peculiar deve- lopments of the cuticle, in the form of hardened spines or hooks like the claws and nails of ver- tebrated animals, and internally with a greater development of certain portions of the muscles of the abdomen. We have full proof of this in those numerous apodal larva which are capable of locomotion, as in most of the Muscida, the common maggots. In all these, in which both the true and false legs are entirely absent, the whole external surface of the body is modified for this purpose. In the maggot of the flesh-fly the whole anterior part of every segment is surrounded and beset with numbers of very minute hooks, with their apices directed backwards. With these the larva attaches itself to the surface over which it moves, and carries itself along by the alternate contraction and relaxation of the longitudinal muscles of its body. A beautiful adaptation of these dermal hooks to the peculiar habits of the individual is observed on comparing their form and position on the bodies of the larva; of two very distinct species of (Est?-us, the one (Est?-us ovis, parasitic in the head of the sheep, the other beneath the skin on the backs of oxen, (Eslrus bovis. In the first of these larva, which moves about freely in its habitation, the hooks (Jig- 360) are all directed backwards around the posterior margin of each segment, a direc- tion rendered necessary for their employment as organs of locomotion ; but in the latter insect, which is confined to one spot for many months, in the tumour occasioned by it on the back of the ox in the cellular tissue beneath the skin, the hooks are not required as organs of pro- gression, but yet are rendered necessary for the purpose of retaining the larva in its nidus un- affected by the varied muscular movements of the parts around it. To accomplish this object each segment of the larva is provided with two sets of hooks. One of these is arranged around the anterior part of the segments, and consists of very numerous minute sharp-pointed spines, directed forwards, while the other is composed of strong flattened scales with curved points, very much larger but less numerous than the preceding. These are disposed around the posterior part of the segments, and have their points directed backwards. The effect of the spines thus placed in opposite directions evi- dently is that of retaining the larva in exactly the same position among the cellular tissue in the back of the animal, while the greater strength of the posterior spines enables it at will to penetrate deeper beneath the skin of its victim. We have thus seen that in apodal larva en- dowed with powers of locomotion the place of the true organs of progression is supplied by peculiar developrrients of the cuticular covering of the body, analogous to the scales on the bodies of Ophidian Reptiles, and these are employed by the larva in all their progressive movements in the same manner as the scales on the body of the snake. But in those apodal larva which remain in the same locality until they have passed through all their changes, as the larva of the bee and wasp, these develop- ments of the quticular surface do not exist, but the body is perfectly smooth. It is not always, however, that the spines on the bodies of larva are employed as organs of locomotion since they exist on many larva which possess'both true and false feet, and are then either merely ornamental appendages or a means of defence. But whatever be their use in the economy of the larva, they are only developments of its external covering, and generally disappear when the insect undergoes its change into the pupa state, being thrown off with the skin. Growth and changes of the larva.—The life of an insect that undergoes a true metamor- phosis is one continued series of changes from the period of its leaving the egg to that of its assuming the perfect state. These are not merely from the larva to the pupa and from that to the perfect animal, during which the insect gradually acquires new organs, but con- sist also of repeated sheddings of its skin, which occur at certain intervals before the larva has attained its full size. These changes and the circumstances connected with them have been more particularly watched in Lepidopterous insects, and have been carefully noted by many naturalists, especially by those of the last cen- tury, Redi, Malpighi, Gcedart, Merian, Ray, Swammerdam, Reaumur, Lyonet, Bonnet, De Geer, and others, who concur in their state- ments respecting the manner in which these changes are effected. Almost immediately after the insect is liberated from the egg it begins to feed with avidity, and increases much in size. Accord- ing to the observations of Count Dandalo* the common silk-worm, Liparis mori, does not then weigh more than one hundredth of a grain, and is scarcely a line in length, but at the expiration of about thirty days, when it has done feeding and has acquired its full size, its * Count Dandalo on Silk-worms (Eng. Trans.) p. 326.