915 INSECTA. Surface, or meso-noturn. It is the segment that bears the elytra and middle pair of legs. The first piece, the prascutum (3 a), is in ge- neral narrow and transverse ; it is very readily overlooked, being in most cases bent down- wards to form the meso-phrqgma, the anterior boundary of the segment. The second piece, the scutum (3 />), is a much broader and very distinct corneous plate, and may be regarded, perhaps, as the most important division ot the meso-notum, since it is to this that the ante- rior pair of wings, the elytra, are articulated. It is followed by the scutellum (3 c), which also is a very important division. Like the scutum it is a broad piece, that covers the pos- terior part of tire meso-notum, and extends on each side to the base of the elytra, the ulula, which arc continuous with them, being •attached to its margin. It is developed in the middle line into a remarkable elevated plate, that is shaped like an armorial shield, and •is so exceedingly large in some species, that it covers nearly the whole of the body. In Dyticus, and most of the Coleoptera, it is the small triangular plate which is situated be- tween the elytra, at their base, and is supposed to be of use in keeping these organs steady during flight. The fourth and last piece of the meso-notum, the post-Hcutelktm (3 d), like the prse-scutum, is narrow and inconspicuous. It is situated immediately behind the scutellum, and is the posterior boundary of the meso- notum. These parts together form the dorsal surface of the first wing-bearing segment, which is developed to as great an extent on its tinder as on its upper surface. The meso- notum is most fully developed in those insects in which the anterior pair of wings are the largest, as in the Lepidoptera, Ilymenoptera, and Dipteia, while in those in which the chief organs of flight are the posterior wings, as in the Coleoptera, it is the smallest of the three thoracic segments. The mew-sternum (fig. 385, A), like the pro-sternum, is formed by a strong middle piece, the proper sternum of the seg- ment, (3 g,) which is developed laterally into two processes, behind which the coxae of the middle pair of legs are articulated, and anteri- orly and laterally the episterna (3 /') and epi- mera (3 h). Each episternal piece is a broad elongated plate, which forms the anterior part of the meso-sternum. It is attached to the ante- rior margin of the lateral sternal process, so that its actual position is a little altered, the corresponding part of the pro-thoracic segment being situated behind the process of the sternal piece. This is a circumstance which occa- sionally takes place in the development of every part of the skeleton, the actual position of one part being altered by the greater or less de- velopement of another, while the relative posi- tion of each part always continues the same. Thus, although the episternum is situated more anteriorly in the meso- than in the pro-sternal surface, it still continues to be articulated with the sternum. The epimeron (3 A) is situated behind the episternum. It is a narrow elon- gated plate, that forms the posterior portion of die meso-thorax, and is united to the anterior of the meta-thorax. At its superior extremity it is much broader than at its inferior, which is articulated with the extremity of the sternal process, and also with the coxae of the middle legs. At the anterior border of the episternum there is a verv narrow but distinct plate, the parapteron (3 e). This piece, which is con- nected especially with the wings, undergoes a great change of form and size in the different orders. In the Coleoptera. it is narrow and evanescent, but as we shall hereafter see, is largely developed in the Lepidoptera. It is evidently a normal portion of the skeleton, but has only been described by Audouin as found in the meso- and meta-thoracic segments. We have before alluded to the existence of two detached pieces in the connecting membrane of the pro-thorax and head, which we regard as the analogues of these pieces of the meso- and meta-thorax. If this be correct, the relative position of these to the other parts of the pro- sternum is precisely similar to that of the same parts of the meso-stemum. The medifurca, (3 s,) or ento-thorax of this segment, is at- tached to the internal surface of the sternal piece, as in the pro-thorax. It is formed by two ascending rami, which are larger and longer than those of the pro-thorax, but like them are developed into two expanded por- tions, which are approximated together and form an arch, under which the nervous cord passes in its course to the meta-thorax. Fig. 386. A ^ 4-a Parts of the meta-thorax. ( Audouin.) A, meso-sternum ; 4 a, prae-scutum ; 4 b, scutum ; 4 c, scutellum; 4 d, post-scutellum ; 4 e, parapteron; 4f, episternum ; 4 g, meta-sternum-, 4 h, epimeron ; 4 3, post-furca. The meta-thorax (fig. 386) is the fourth seg- ment of the body, and the third of the thoracic region. Its upper surface, or meta-notum, as in the preceding segments, is divided into four portions. The pra-scutum (4 a) is a narrow transverse plate, which is bent down at its ante- rior margin like the prasscutum of the meso- notum, to form the meta-phragma, and is ex- tended on each side as far as the paraptera, bounding the insertion of the wings. In the middle line it is extended backwards upon the dorsal surface as far as the scutellum, thus di- viding into two parts the second piece, the scutum, (4 b,) which, like the corresponding part of the meso-notum, is connected with the 3 o 2