978 INSECTA. into which the blood is received both in return- ing backwards from the head and thorax and laterally from the sides of the abdomen. We have observed a similar space in many insects, particularly in Asilus crabroniformis (Jig. 434, D), and also in Bombus terrestris. Fig. 434. One valve of the heart of Asilus crabroniformis. a, the chamber; b, the lateral muscles; c, the auricular space ; the arrows denote the course of the blood. In this insect we have observed the fibres of the heart crossing each other in an oblique di- rection, forming as it were a series of festoons around the posterior part of each chamber. These, like the transverse fibres observed in Melolontha by Straus, contract the diameter of each chamber, and extend the vessel. Be- sides the proper muscular structure of the heart itself, there are attached on each side of the organ several sets of muscular fibres, arranged in pairs along the upper and under surface of each chamber. Each set of these fibres, con- verging to a tendon, and passing outwards, forms a triangular muscle (A, b, b), which is attached to the lateral surface of each seg- ment. These, which have been called the wings of the heart, assist by their contraction to shorten and expand the chambers at the auricular, or receiving period of the heart's mo- tions, while, as just explained, the transverse and diagonal muscles occasion the ventricular, by their contracting and narrowing the diameter of each chamber. It is between the upper and under set of the lateral muscles that we believe the auricular space to exist, bounded by a de- licate membrane. The thoracic or aortal por- tion of the heart commences at the anterior part of the first abdominal segment, where the organ bends downwards to pass under the metaphragma, and enter the thorax. When it has entered that region it immediately ascends again between the great longitudinal dorsal muscles of the wings, and passes onwards until it arrives at the posterior margin of the pronotum; it then again descends and con- tinues its course along the upper surface of the oesophagus, with which it passes beneath the cerebrum, anterior to which, and immediately above the pharynx, it is bifurcated and divided into several branches, as formerly noticed by us in the sphinx.* Previously to our notice, how- * Phil. Trans. 1832, p. ii. p. 385. ever, Carus had seen the course of the blood in the head of insects following directions cor- responding to the situations in which we have been able to trace a distinct division of the aorta into vessels. We have found a similar division of the aorta into branches in several species of Coleopterous insects, as in Meloe, Maps, and Timarcha, although we have omitted to trace it in Lucanus. In the Sphinx and Vanessa urticce, immediately after the aorta has passed beneath the cerebrum it gives off laterally two large trunks, which are each equal in capacity to about one-third of the main vessel. These pass one on each side of the head, and are divided into three branches, which are directed back- wards, but have not been traced farther in conse- quence of their extreme delicacy. Anterior to these trunks are two smaller ones, which appear to be given to the parts of the mouth and an- tennae, and nearer the median line are two others, which are the continuations of the aorta. These pass upwards and are lost in the integuments. The whole of these parts are so exceedingly delicate that we have not as yet been able to follow them beyond their origin at the termina- tion of the aorta, but believe them to be con- tinuous with very delicate circulatory passages along the course of the tracheal vessels. It is in the head alone that the aorta is divided into branches, since throughout its whole course from the abdomen it is one continuous vessel, neither giving off branches nor possessing la- teral muscles, auricular orifices, or separate chambers. In the larva state it is far more difficult to recognise the true structure of the vessel by actual dissection than in the perfect, because the valves are only in a rudimentary condition. But it is easy to observe it in the bodies of living transparent specimens, as done by Carus, Wagner, Bowerbank, and others in the Ephemerida: and Agr'wnidm, in which not only the form of the valves and motions of the vessel are distinct, but also the abundance of globules that circulate in every direction. Even in some of the opaque-bodied maggots of Dip- tera we have seen the form of the valves very distinctly through the tegument in the eight posterior segments. When viewed in that state each chamber appears to be much narrower at its anterior and posterior extremity than in its middle (jig. 358, D), and the valves formed by the reflexion of its parietes inwards, although distinct, are very small. Near the middle of each chamber there is attached on each side a narrow muscle, which passing backwards is attached to the anterior margin of each seg- ment. Between the muscle and the heart in each segment, a large tracheal vessel crosses to anastomose with its fellow on the opposite side, and on each side of the dorsal vessel, nearly in the course of the lateral muscles, there is a faint indication of a line which seems to form the boundary of what we regard as the auricular space in which the blood is collected before passing into the chambers, of which there are eight very distinct ones in these larvae. The motion and course of the blood, as will be seen from the above account of the structure of the chief organ of the circulation, is first