34 ECHINODERMATA. mouth. It is made up of ten pieces alternately larger and smaller, and gives attachment to the longitudinal muscles of the body. It is re- garded as the rudiment of a skeleton, while the addition of scales or plates in the skin forms in some species an approach to the more perfect cutaneous skeletons of the star-fish and sea-urchin. 2. Organs of motion.—The spines of some Echinodermata are employed to a certain extent as organs of locomotion; they have been al- ready described. The star-fish has the power of slowly moving its rays; it can bend them towards the dorsal or ventral surface, or ap- proximate some of them while it separates others more widely, and thus prepare itself for creeping through narrow passages. Tiedemann ascribes these motions wholly to the contractile skin ; they are no doubt partly effected by that tissue, but Meckel describes distinct muscles passing between the calcareous plates which form the floor of the rays, and we have our- selves observed a distinct band of muscular fibres running along the roof of each ray be- tween the coriaceous skin and peritoneal mem- brane, and also transverse fibres, but less marked, lying between the same parts; the latter are seen adhering to the external surface of the peritoneal membrane when it is stript off. The muscular system of the Holothuria is much more developed. Ten longitudinal mus- cles (jig. 20, s, s, s,) arise from the calcareous ring in the vicinity of the mouth, and pass along the body in the form of broad bands to the posterior extremity; between these and the skin transverse or circular muscles (/, /,) are situated; they extend over the whole internal surface of the skin. The principal locomotive organs of Echino- dermata are the membranous tubes named the feet. These are very numerous and are usually disposed in regular rows; they contain a clear fluid, which is conveyed to them by a peculiar system of vessels. Each foot consists of two parts, an internal and generally vesicular por- tion (Jig. 12, d,) placed within the body, and a tubular part (c) on the outside, projecting from the surface and continuous with the first through an aperture in the skin or shell (Jig. 23,/J. The tube is closed at the extremity and terminates there in a sucker, which has usually the form of a disk slightly depressed in the centre. Both parts of the foot are evidently muscular, the fibres of the tubular portion being disposed in a circular and a longitudinal layer; the cavity is lined with a transparent membrane, and the tubular part moreover receives an external covering from the epidermis. The foot is extended by the contraction of its inter- nal vesicle, which forces the fluid into the tube, or when a vesicle is wanting, by the projection of a fluid into the tube from a communicating vessel; the tubular part is thus distended and elongated ; it retracts itself of course by its muscular fibres, and when this takes place the fluid is forced back again into the vesicular or internal part. In progression the animal extends a few of its feet in the direction in which it desires to go, attaches the suckers to rocks, stones, or other fixed objects immedi- ately in advance, then shortening its feet it draws its body in the wished-for direction. a. In the starfish the feet are disposed in rows along the under surface of the rays, di- minishing in size as they approach the extre- mity (Jig. 7, a, b, d). There are usually two sim- ple rows in each ray, (fig. 23, c,J and the vesi- cular part is for the most part deeply cleft into two lobes (as in A. aurantiaca, fig. 22, d, d). In Fig. 12.