929 INSECTA. in newly developed specimens, particularly in Acrida viridissima, the teeth or markings on the file are more distinct than in those which have been a longer time in the perfect state, in which the teeth appear as if partially oblite- rated by use. The sounds, as remarked by M. Goureau, may be readily produced in the dead insect by gently rubbing the bases of the wings together, a further proof that the rushing of air from the spiracles is totally unconnected with their production. A similar structure exists in the wings of Acrida grisea and others of the same genus. In the Achetida the parts for stridulation are somewhat differently con- structed. The wing of the common house- cricket, Acheta domestica, differs materially in the two sexes. In the male (Jig. 395) the two Fig. 395. Wing of the male House-Cricket, Acheta domestica, shewing the file, b, and tympanum, a. wings exactly resemble each other, and the nervures are more irregularly disposed than in the female, in which they are arranged either longitudinally or diagonally with but very few that run in a transverse direction. When the wing of the male is attentively examined, near ly one-half of its surface is found to be adapted to perform the office of a tympanum. This part is more transparent and elastic than the other, and is crossed by many nervures in a manner somewhat similar to the tympanum in Acrida bracheh/tra. Besides these there is on the under surface of each wing a large nervure, which is curved and placed somewhat trans- versely near the base of the wing, as in Acrida. It is the file or bow, and is covered by a vast number of minute, but freely elevated, semi- circular teeth, which gradually decrease in size as they approach the external angle of the wing (fig- 396). The smallness of the teeth, and the extent of surface over which they are passed when the two wings are rubbed briskly across each other, is probably the cause of the very acute sounds produced by this insect. In Gryllotalpa, which is said to produce a hoarse croaking sound, the two wings exactly resem- VOL. II. Fig. 396. \\ Tlie round file of Acheta domestica. ble each other, as in Acheta. The nervures are thick and strong, and there is no distinct vibratory membrane, but on the under surface of each wing are a vast number of minute sharp-pointed teeth arranged closely together along the middle of the nervures, not only upon that one which is analogous to the file in Acrida and Acheta, but also upon three others which run in a parallel direction with it, as well as on their transverse or connecting branches, so that the whole of the nervures at the base of each wing are covered with files, which, when the two wings are rubbed across each other, produce, owing to the shortness of the nervures, a low grating sound. We do not at first perceive the necessity for a stridulatory apparatus on the under-surfaces of both wings, if the sounds produced result simply from the attrition of the wings against each other, and the wings have always the same relative posi- tion. But on close examination it is found that, although in the Gryllida the right wing either constantly overlaps the left or the left the right, in the Achetide this is not the case, but that sometimes one wing and sometimes the other in the same insect is the superior. With regard to the acuteness of the sounds produced by the house-cricket, it probably depends much upon the length of the vibrating nervures on the large tympanum, as well as the small- ness of the teeth in the file, as the hoarse sounds do, perhaps, upon the shortness of the nervures in Gryllotalpa. In Locustidtc the stridulation is not connected with the structure of the wings. Besides these various parts for the produc- tion of sounds, the wings of some insects are furnished with others equally remarkable, but designed for a different purpose. These con- sist of certain little hooks and foldings on the margins of the wings, by means of which in some families the two pairs are united during flight, in order that the motions of these organs may be in perfect unison with each other. In some genera, as in the Lepidoptera, the males alone are provided with these hook lets, as was formerly noticed by Mr. Haworth* in Apatura Iris, in which the wings of the male are con- nected at their base by means of a strong elastic spring, which arises from the base of the costal * Lepidoptera Britannica, 8vo. Lontlini, 1803. 3 )'