ENDOSMOSIS. 107 sought for in a more dense solution of tartaric acid, and this I actually found in a solution of the density of 1.21 (40 acid to 100 solution). Every solution of this acid of greater density than 1.21, at the temperature of £th of a degree above zero cent, caused the endosmotic cur- rent to flow from the water towards the acid, and every solution of the same acid, under the density of 1.21, caused the endosmotic current from the acid towards the water. From all these experiments it follows that a fall of tem- perature favours the endosmosis towards the water, and that a rise of temperature favours the endosmosis towards the acid. Jn fact, the same solution of tartaric acid occasions at one time endosmosis towards the acid, when the temperature is high; at another, endosmosis towards the water when the temperature is re- latively low. It would appear from this, that a depression of temperature renders the solu- tion of tartaric acid more apt than water to permeate animal membranes, and that there is a certain concordance between this capacity of permeation and the temperature and the den- sity of the acid solution. This phenonemon, at first sight, appears analogous to that which M. Girard discovered,* in regard to the com- parative flow of a solution of nitre and of pure water through a capillary glass tube. M. Girard found that, at a temperature of +10°, a solu- tion of one part of nitrate of potash in three parts of water flows more rapidly than pure water through a capillary glass tube, whilst the same solution flows more slowly than water when the temperature is above -|- 10°. To discover whether this apparent analogy was well founded or not, I made an experiment to ascertain the relative duration of the flow through a capillary glass tube of a given mea- sure of pure water, and a like measure of a solution of tartaric acid, the density of which was 1.05 (21.8 parts acid, 100 solution.) The temperature being + 7° cent. I found that fifteen centilitres of water flowed through a ca- pillary glass tube in 157 seconds; but the same quantity of the solution of tartaric acid required 301 seconds to pass through the same capillary tube. There is consequently no ac- tual analogy to be established between the re- sults of the experiments of M. Girard and the fact of the endosmosis towards the water, which takes place when at a temperature of +7° cent, a solution of tartaric acid of the den- sity of 1.105, is separated from a volume of pure water by a piece of an animal membrane. It may be as well if I here state that when a solution of one part of nitrate of potash in three parts of water was separated by a piece of bladder from pure water, I have always ob- served the endosmotic current directed towards the solution; the temperature might be at zero, or-J- 10°, or higher, the same phenome- non always occurred. This is sufficient to prove that endosmosis is governed by laws en- tirely different from those that preside over simple capillary filtration. I add, that the solution of tartaric acid, of 1.105 density, hav- ' Mem. de l'Acud. des Sciences, 1816. ing a viscidity nearly the double of that of water, and passing, nevertheless, by endosmo- sis into the latter fluid, when it is separated from it by an animal membrane, and the tem- perature is + 7° cent, also proves that endos- mosis does not generally depend on the visci- dity of fluids. Acid solutions are the only fluids which have yet been found to occasion the endosmotic cur- rent to flow towards water when separated from this fluid by an animal membrane. The whole of the acids, without exception, exhibit this phenomenon, which was long overlooked by me, from its having been confounded with another phenomenon, namely, the abolition of endosmosis. I have in fact shown, in a work already before the public,* that all fluids which act chemically on the membrane of the endos- mometer, put an end, with greater or less cele- rity, to the phenomenon of endosmosis,—it goes on for some time, but it never fails to cease at length. Sulphuric acid, above all the other acids, has the property of putting an end to endosmosis. This acid, poured into the en- dosmometer, sinks by virtue of its simple gravity towards the lower water, filtering mechanically through the membrane placed between it and the water. If the position of the two fluids be reversed, the endosmometer being charged with water, and the sulphuric acid placed externally and on the lower level, the water still sinks to- wards the acid, passing in its turn mechani- cally through the membranous septum of the instrument, rendered incapable of effecting en- dosmosis. From these experiments I was led at first to conclude that sulphuric acid was in- active as regards endosmosis; in other words, was incapable of exhibiting or producing this phenomenon. I have since found, however, that the sulphuric, like all the other acids, has the faculty of exerting endosmosis in the two opposite directions, but always during a very brief space of time only. Thus the tempera- ture being + 10° cent., sulphuric acid, of the density of 1.093, separated from water by a piece of bladder, the endosmotic current is directed from the water towards the acid, but the phenomenon lasts only for a short time; the current soon ceases, and if the acid be on the higher level, it then begins to sink by sim- ple mechanical filtration towards the water. At the same temperature of + 10° cent., the sulphuric acid attenuated to 1.054 being placed in the endosmometer, and the reservoir and a part of the tube being plunged in water, en- dosmosis is established, but in this case the current is from the acid towards the water, so that the acid liquor sinks in the tube ; and that this sinking is due to endosmosis is demon- strated by the fact of the acid continuing to sink in the tube of the endosmometer a consi- derable way below the level of the external water, and not stopping short when the level is obtained, as it does when the descent is owing to simple mechanical filtration. In this expe- riment, as in the one detailed immediately be- * Nouv. Redhetches sur l'Emlosmose, &c. p. 25. See also my Memoir in the 49th vol. of the Annates de Chimie, p. 415.