403 GASTEROPODA. servient to mastication, the apparatus of the external senses, and of the organs employed in copulation, which are, when unemployed, re- tracted within its cavity by special muscular fasciculi spoken of elsewhere. Retractile muscles.—In the spirivalve genera the muscular walls which inclose the body only exist in such parts as, during the extended state of the animal, are protruded from the shell; that part of the body which is concealed within its cavity being provided with a much more delicate and membranous envelope ; in such, however, a necessity exists for an additional muscular apparatus, serving to retract the body and foot within the cavity of its calcareous abode, and of course exhibiting various modifi- cations of arrangement in conformity with the shape of the shell itself. In the turbinated shells, the retracting muscles consist of strong fasciculi of fibres arising from the columella or axis of the shell, and diverging from this point, spread in several slips, which become interlaced with the fibres composing the foot and muscular investment. In the flattened forms of Patella and Chiton, the muscular fibres arise all around the margin of the shell, excepting at its anterior part; these penetrating the mantle are intimately interwoven with the muscles forming the circumference of the foot. The animal of the Haliotis is fixed to its ex- panded and semi-turbinated shell by a single large and ovoid muscle, which takes its origin from near the middle of the last spire; what- ever the disposition of these muscles, however, their action is obviously of two kinds; and not only are they the agents by which the creature retires within its covering, but by raising the central portion of the disc of the foot, whilst its margins are in apposition with the plane of progression, they will, by producing a vacuum beneath, convert the whole apparatus into a sucker, the adhesive power of which will be proportioned to the extent of its surface. Foot.—The foot of the Gasteropoda is their principal agent of progression. It is generally a fleshy disc, of variable size and shape, attached to the ventral surface, and forming when ex- panded an organ by means of which the animal can adhere to surrounding objects. In the naked genera it is small, but in the conchife- rous species, especially in such as are provided with dense and weighty shells, its dimensions and force are proportionally increased. In its internal structure it resembles the muscular in- vestment of the body, of which in fact it is merely an expansion, consisting of muscular fibres interlacing each other in every possible direction, as may be developed by continued maceration. In the Slug, when opened from the back, the superior layer of fibres is found to run transversely, arising apparently from two tendinous lines which run longitudinally near the centre of the organ, and terminating near the margins of the disc ; beneath these, longi- tudinal fasciculi may be detected, but so inter- laced with other fibres assuming every degree of obliquity, that it is impossible to unravel the complicated structure which they form. In the Limpet (Patella) the lower fibres of the foot are transverse, but near the circumference they become distinctly interwoven with circular fas- ciculi ; the superior stratum viewed from above consists of two series of oblique fibres, which meet at an acute angle on the middle line, whilst the substance of the organ is composed of muscular bands variously disposed : from such a structure the movements of the foot are readily understood; the transverse fibres by their contraction will elongate the ellipsis of the foot by diminishing its breadth, whilst the longitudinal, having a contrary action, will, by the combination of their effects, produce every movement needful for the progression of the creature. On minutely inspecting the foot of a terrestrial Gasteropod, as it crawls upon a transparent surface, it will be found to be divided into a certain number of transverse seg- ments of variable size by a particular arrange- ment of the longitudinal muscular fibres, which seem to form, when the creature advances, un- dulations limited by the points of contact. These sections appear alternately to form a vacuum upon the surface where the animal is placed, that which follows advancing to take the place of that which precedes it, the trans- mission of movement occurring from behind forwards, a mechanism which causes the animal to advance by a slow and uniform progression. The above structure of the foot, and conse- quent mode of locomotion, although the most usual, is susceptible of considerable modifica- tion. Thus in Sci/llaa, we find it only adapted for grasping the thin stems of fuci and other submarine plants, being for that purpose com- pressed and grooved inferiorly into a deep sul- cus. In the Tornatella fusciata, Lam. the struc- ture of the foot is remarkable: beaten incessantly by the waves, in the cavities of rocks which it frequents, nearly on a level with the surface of the sea, to the violence of which it is always exposed, it has need of additional powers of retaining its hold; its foot is therefore divided into two adhering portions, placed at each extremity, and separated by a wide interval; when it crawls it fixes the posterior disc and advances the other, which it attaches firmly to the plane of progression, and this being effected, the hinder sucker is detached and drawn for- wards, locomotion being accomplished by the alternate adhesion of these two prehensile discs. In Cyclostorna the foot is likewise furnished with two longitudinal adhering lobes, which are advanced alternately. But the foot is not merely an instrument of progression on a solid surface, in many species being convertible, at the will of the animal, into a boat, by means of which the creature can suspend itself in an in- verted position at the surface of the water, where by the aid of its mantle and tentacles, it can row itself from place to place. The Buli- mus stagnalis, so common in our pools of fresh water, is a good example of this mode of sail- ing ; and in the marine species, Aplysia and Gastropteron may be enumerated as exhibiting a similar structure. Some of the naked Gasteropods, as Aplysia and Thethys, are able to move through the water in the same manner as the leech by an