EDENTATA. 48 Creator display itself more fully than in the construction of these contemned and apparently apathetic beings. I must refer the reader to a highly interesting paper by Professor Buck- land in the Linnaean Transactions, in which the libels of Cuvier on this maligned animal are beautifully and satisfactorily refuted. The Ant-eaters and Armadillos, on the other hand, which may be considered as the true Edentata, are constructed for very different habits, and the Chlurnyphorus must be consi- dered as offering a very near affinity to the latter genus. The Ant-eaters with their thick long hair and fossorial claws, and the long ex- tensile tongue with which they are furnished, are thus enabled to scratch or dig up the ant- hills and to receive their minute but multi- tudinous inhabitants on the mucous surface of the tongue; whilst by their long dense hair they are protected from the annoyance or dan- ger which their little troublesome victims would otherwise inflict. The Armadillos and the Chlamyphorus, on the other hand, pursue their insect prey either on or beneath the sur- face of the earth, and are protected from the attacks of their enemies by the panoply of mail with which they are furnished. The osseous system. The cranium.—The ge- neral character which at once strikes us in look- ing at the cranium of the Sloths (Jig. 29) is its Fig. 29. Head of the Sloth. extreme shortness, particularly with regard to the facial portion, and the roundness of its whole contour. In the insectivorous forms the muzzle, on the contrary, is greatly elongated. The frontal bone in the Tardigrada is large, and the anterior portion convex; it has no zygo- matic process, and the frontal and orbital por- tions pass into each other by a very obtuse angle. The parietal bone in most is of a square figure. In the Armadillos (fig. 30) and in the Fig. 30. Head of the Armadillo. Orycteropus the two parietals are united from an early period; in the Ant-eaters, on the con- trary, they remain separate. In the Sloth the squamous portion of the temporal bone is of large dimensions, and the acoustic portion of but moderate size. The zygomatic process is small and does not reach the jugal bone; a con- struction which is still more conspicuously seen in the Ant-eaters. The occipital bone is large; the squamous portion broad and rounded, the superior part being continued to the inferior by an obtuse angle in the Sloths, and by nearly a right anglein the true Edentata. The occipital foramen is round. The jugal bone offers some remarkable peculiarities in its form. In the Ant-eaters (Jig. 31) it occurs in a Fig. 31. Head of the Ant-eater. very imperfect condition, being merely an ob- long plate of bone, terminating posteriorly in a rounded point, situated in the posterior ex- tremity of the superior maxillary bone, and beneath the lachrymal, extending posteriorly scarcely beyond the latter; consequently it is remote from the temporal bone throughout the whole length of the temporal fossa, and there is no zygomatic arch. In the Munis (fig. 32) it is absolutely wanting. In the Arma- Fig. 32. Head of the Manis. dillos it is somewhat more fully developed; it is larger and higher and reaches the tem- poral bone by its posterior portion. In the Sloths, especially in the Bradypus diJactylus, or Unau, it attains a much greater size, and has on its inferior margin a long process extending downwards and backwards almost to the base of the lower jaw. This remarkable process is also found in the enormous fossil animal the Megatherium (Jig. 33). The posterior extremity of the jugal bone is remote from the zygomatic process of the temporal in the Sloths, but in the Megatherium these bones are united, and the zygomatic arch is therefore complete. The in- ferior maxillary bone varies excessively in this order. In the Orycteropus, Manis, and Myrme- cophaga, it is extremely long and depressed ; its height does not greatly vary in the whole of its length. In the Armadillos it is much shorter, and in the Sloths it is extremely short and trun- cated. The intermaxillary bone is excessively small in the Ant-eaters and the Sloth, which are not furnished with any incisive teeth, but in Armadillos it attains a somewhat greater degree of development, especially in the genus Da-