GASTEROPODA. 396 fleshy, and by the position of the eyes at the extremity of so long a stem these can be readily directed to different objects. In no case, how- ever, can they be retracted within the body so as to be quite enclosed in the visceral cavity. In the terrestrial Gasteropods the eyes are gene- rally placed at the extremity of the superior horns, a position which manifestly extends the range of vision, and moreover, in consequence of the structure which we have described when speaking of the organs of touch, may be com- pletely drawn within the body. In jig. 189, b, the eye of Vaginulus is seen at the extremity of the upper tentacle, and the origin of the optic nerve (c) from the brain (d), as well as the convolutions which it makes to allow of its adaptation to the varying length of the tentacle, and the bulb in which it terminates behind the eyeball (b*), are sufficiently displayed. In Jig. 192, b, the eye of the snail exhibiting the same circumstances has been represented, and the apparatus by which the movements of the whole organ are effected is so clearly shewn as to render further description superfluous. Generative system.—The description of the generative apparatus of the Gasteropoda forms one of the most remarkable parts of their history, and the complication which it presents in some orders is probably unique in the ani- mal kingdom. The class may be divided, as far as relates to this function, into three great divisions:—1st. Hermaphrodite and self-im- pregnating; 2d. Hermaphrodite, but recipro- cally impregnating each other by mutual copulation ; 3d. Sexes distinct, the female being impregnated by copulation with the male. We shall consider each of these divi- sions in the order in which they have been enumerated. The lowest orders approximate the Conchifera in most parts of their organisa- tion, and in the arrangement of their generative system we need not be surprised to see a manifest resemblance. The Scutibr uncinate and Cyclobranchiate orders, therefore, present this great distinguishing character, which more than any other detaches them from the others, namely, that every individual being furnished both with ovigerous and impregnating organs is sufficient to the impregnation of its own ova. Nothing, in truth, can be more simple than such an arrangement. The ovary is found, ■when empty, embedded in the substance of the liver, but at certain epochs it becomes so much distended with ova as to cover in great part the rest of the viscera; from this ovary arises a simple canal or oviduct, which termi- nates after a short course in the neighbourhood of the anus. No trace of accessory apparatus has been found, and the only part to which the office of a testis is assignable is the tube through which the ova are discharged, which probably furnishes a secretion subservient to the impregnation of the eggs. Such is the structure of the generative system in Haliotis, Patella, and others of the orders to which these respectively belong, exhibiting a simpli- city of parts widely different from what is found in the division which next presents itself to our notice. The second type of the genera- tive apparatus is common to the Nudibran- chiute, Infer abranchiate, Tectibranchiate, and Inoperculatedpulmonary orders; in all of which every individual is provided with both male and female organs of copulation, and, accordingly, mutual impregnation is effected by the congress of two individuals, or in a few instances by the combination of several. We shall select the common snail (Helixpomatia) as the most familiar illustration of the general arrangement of the parts composing this double apparatus, leaving the varieties which it presents to sub- sequent notice. The admirable plate of Cuvier, of which Jig. 190 is a copy, represents the whole system with that clearness and fidelity so characteristic of all the laborious contribu- tions to science which we owe to his indefati- gable industry. The female portion consists of the ovary, the oviduct, and an enlarged portion of the oviduct which forms a receptacle for the ova, and is called by Cuvier the womb (la matrice). The ovary (q) is a racemose mass embedded in that portion of the liver which is enclosed in the last spire of the body, i. e. that part which is placed nearest to the apex of the shell; from this proceeds a slender oviduct (r), folded in zigzag curves, and vari- ously convoluted : it commences by many small branches derived from the ovary, and terminates in a mass (s), regarded by Cuvier as the testis, in which it becomes so attenuated that it is difficult to trace it; emerging, how- ever, from this mass, it expands into the womb (t), which is a long, capacious, and sacculated canal, and capable of much dis- tension, in which the eggs are retained until they have acquired their full development: this viscus opens into the common generative cavity at e, Jig. 194. The male organs consist of a testicle, vas deferens, and penis. The testicle (s, Jig.190) appears to be composed of two distinct portions, the larger of which is soft and homogeneous in texture, but the smaller has a granulated ap- pearance ; the latter (m) runs along the womb like a mesentery, connecting its folds as far as the termination of that viscus. The testicle varies much in size at different periods, being generally very small, but during the season of love it dilates so as to fill nearly half of the viscera] cavity, at which time the womb like- wise is much enlarged. From the testicle arises its vas deferens or excretory duct, which terminates in the penis near the base of that organ. The penis (fig. 194, n) is a most sin- gular instrument, resembling a long hollow whip-lash, formed of circular fibres, and, like the tentacles, capable of complete inversion, which in fact occurs whenever it is protruded from the body; it is also furnished with a re- tractor muscle (Jig. 190, w), serving to draw it back again after copulation is accomplished. The penis is not perforated at its extremity, but the vas deferens terminates within it by a small aperture, which of course during the inversion of the organ opens externally at about one-third of the length of the penis from its root; the aperture by which the vas defe- rens thus opens upon the exterior of the penis,