919 INSECTA. In Orthoptera the structure of the thorax is similar to that of the Coleoptera, but it is un- necessary to describe it more minutely at pre- sent, a greater interest being attached to the whole skeleton of those insects which undergo metamorphoses, more particularly the Hymen- optera and Lepidoptera, than to those in which these interesting changes do not take place. The structure of the thorax in Hymenoptera merits considerable attention, from the circum- stance that it is scarcely yet decided whether it be composed only of three distinct segments of the larva, or whether a fourth one enters in part into the composition of it. We have seen that in the larva state in this order there are fourteen distinct segments, besides an anal tubercle, and that during the transformations the body is con- stricted in the fifth segment, which seems to form the connexion between the thorax and abdomen. According to the usually received opinions, the true thorax is always composed of but three segments, but M. Audouin believes that this is not strictly the case in Hymenop- tera, and has endeavoured to shew that in this order the posterior portion of the thoracic region is part of a segment that belongs to the abdo- men. Mr. Macleay, on the contrary, contends* that this is not an additional segment, but is in reality part of the fourth or meta-thoracic seg- ment of the larva. In this opinion he is sup- ported by Burmeister and Westwood, while the views of Audouin are advocated by Latreille and Kirby and Spence. The pro-thorax, which is a large segment in the larva state, is greatly reduced in size in the perfect insect, owing to the operation of causes which take place during the metamor- phoses. But it is not so much reduced as in the Lepidoptera and Diptera. The boundaries of this segment in Hymenoptera, like those of the meta-thorax, are a subject of dispute among naturalists, owing to the segment in the perfect state being divided into two distinct parts, the first of which is articulated with the head, and freely moveable upon the other, which is at- tached firmly to the meso-thorax. The piece articulated with the head is believed by Kirby and Spence to represent the entire pro-thorax, or second segment of the larva. It bears the first pair of legs, and in the winged species is readily detached from the other, which is the collure of those authors, who, on account of its being attached to the great meso-thorax, believe it forms a part of that segment. This, as Mr. Macleay has shewn, is not the fact, as is proved by the circumstance that in the Ants and other walking Hymenoptera it is readily removed from the meso-thorax, and is united to the anterior piece, which bears the first pair of legs ; while he suggests that the reason for its being attached to the meso-thorax in the flying spe- cies, is to give strength to that segment, and support the wings.f We have convinced our- selves of the correctness of this view of the subject by an examination of the parts in Ich- neumon atropos, (fig. 389, 390,) in which the * Zoological Journal, vol. i. p. 145, et scq. t Op. cit. p. 168. Fig. 389. Ichneumon Atropos. 2, pronotum ; 3 ft, scutum of meso-thorax ; 3 c, scutellum ; 3 e, parapteron ; wing ; 4 6, scutum of meta-thorax ; 4 d, frenum; 4 c, scutellum ; * *, spiracle ; I, coxa. two pieces are freely separable. The pro-scutum and scutum of the pro-notum are exceedingly short and evanescent, as described by Mr. Macleay in Polistes, the prse-scutum being merely a ligamentous membrane that unites this segment to the head. The scutum is a short plate that forms the upper surface of the anterior portion of the segment, the sides being formed, as we shall see, by the epimera and episterna (2 g). The posterior piece, the scutel- lum, is of considerable size laterally (2 A), but it is short on the upper surface (2), and is deeply notched to fit it to the anterior part of the meso- notum, its two sides being produced into a some- what triangular shape, and wedged in between the scutum of the meso-thorax and the epister- num on each side. The post-scutcllum exists only as a rudimentary membrane, which assists to mark the proper boundary of the pro-thorax, this being, as Mr. Macleay has observed, one of the proofs that the scutellum now described does not belong to the meso-thorax, while the non-existence of a similar membrane, or phragma, between the two portions of the pro- thorax itself, affords an additional reason for considering these but as parts only of one segment. The meso-notum is the most largely deve- loped portion of the thorax in this order, as in Diptera and Lepidoptera. It is a convex elon- gated plate that covers nearly the whole of the dorsal surface of the thorax. The prae-scutum is a vertical piece, developed inwards to assist in the formation of the pro-phragma that di- vides the collar from the scutum. The scutum (3 b) is broad, convex, and lozenge-shaped. At its sides are developed the anterior pair of wings, and at its base, which is slightly trun-