818 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. on the head of the femur, which marked its point of contact with the os innominatum: the articulating surface thus formed on the head of the femur was very slightly convex, about one inch and a half in diameter, smooth, whitish, hard, and polished, though not uniformly so ; for in some parts the bone appeared red and porous; the remaining portion of the head of the femur was not opposed to bone, but applied to the capsule which surrounded the joint; the head had lost its natural rounded form, was very irregular, and deprived of its cartilage, but some parts of it were covered by a substance of the nature of ligament. There were several small pits on the head of the femur, but none of them appeared to have been the depression for the attachment of the round ligament. There was an irregular ossific deposit round the lesser trochanter. The surface of the ilium, to which the head of the bone was applied, was elevated half an inch above the level of the surrounding bone, so that this cavity appeared to have been formed upon a plate of bone which had been planted, as it were, on the ilium. The superior and posterior portion of the new acetabulum, or about two-thirds of its whole extent, was smooth and polished, and presented a suitable corresponding surface to receive the head of the femur ; the aspect of the articulating surface on the ilium was backwards, outwards, and up- wards. There was scarcely a vestige of the old acetabulum in its site; there was a superficial fossa, of a triangular form, filled with a fibrous substance, continuous with a surrounding cel- lular tissue. There was no articular cartilage on any portion of the bones which formed the new joint. There was a deep groove, one inch in depth, formed on the outer side of the ilio- pubic symphysis, for the lodgement of the con- joined tendons of the psoas and iliacus muscles in their passage over the brim of the pelvis to the lesser trochanter. The pelvis, in this case, was much elevated on the side corresponding to the luxation. b. Lupatio/i backwards or towards the ischia- tic notch.—The space which is called the ischiatic notch is bounded above and anteriorly by the ilium, posteriorly by the sacrum, and in- feriorly by the sacro-sciatic ligament (Jig. 323). It is formed forgiving passage to the pyriformis muscle and to the sciatic nerve, as well as to the great arteries, the gluteal, ischiatic, and internal pudendal. Its situation, with respect to the acetabulum in the natural position of the pelvis, is a little above its level, and it is also placed behind it; when the head of the bone is thrown into this space, it is placed backwards and up- wards with respect to the acetabulum. Therefore though called the dislocation backwards, it is to be remembered that it is a dislocation back- wards and a little upwards. In this dislocation the head of the thigh-bone is placed on the pyriformis muscle, between the edge of the bone which forms the upper part of the ischiatic notch and the sacro-sciatic liga- ments, behind the acetabulum, and a little above the level of the middle of that cavity. Fig. 323. 1, Pyriformis; 2, lesser sacro-sciatic ligament; 3, gemellus superior; 4, obturator internum; 5, ge- mellus inferior ; 6, tuber ischii. It is the dislocation most difficult both to detect and to reduce; to detect, because the length of the limb differs but little, and its po- sition is not much changed as regards the knee and foot, as in the dislocation upwards; to re- duce, because the head of the bone is placed deep behind the acetabulum, and it therefore requires to be lifted over its edge, as well as to be drawn towards its socket. The signs of this dislocation are, that the limb is about half an inch shorter than the other, but generally not more than half an inch ; that the trochanter major is behind its usual place, but still remains nearly at right an- gles with the ilium, with a slight inclination towards the acetabulum ; the head of the bone is so buried in the ischiatic notch that it cannot be distinctly felt, except in thin persons, and then only by rolling the thigh-bone forwards, as far as the comparatively fixed state of the limb will allow. The knee and the foot are turned inwards, but not so much as in the dis- location upwards, and the toe rests against the ball of the great toe of the other foot. When the patient is standing, the toe touches the ground, but the heel does not quite reach it; the knee is not so much advanced as in the dislocation on the dorsum ilii, but is still brought a little more forwards than the other, and is slightly bent. The limb is fixed, so that flexion and rotation are in a great degree pre- vented. The following case of dislocation backwards towards the ischiatic notch affords us a good example of this accident. John Magee, set. 54, a strong muscular labourer, was admitted into Jervis-street Infirmary, lOthof November,1831, under my care, in consequence of his having been severely injured in his left hip. He stated that while carrying on his back a sack of pota- toes, (about 3 cwt.) he unfortunately placed his