627 FIBRES OF THE HEART. circle it arrives again at the anterior edge of the septum, receives another fasciculus of fibres from the aorta, and is marked Cpcaa. It is then seen to take its course round the base and in front of the right ventricle. As it passes by the right aspect of the aorta,it again receives from it a fasciculus of fibres, and is lettered Cpcaaa ; on reaching the posterior edge of the septum, it is further augmented by two accessions of fibres, one from the aorta at its posterior aspect, and the other from the middle layer of the septum. This combination of fibres from various sources is indicated by the combination of their initial letters, CpcaaaaC. It should be borne in mind that C large is the synalepha of crc—the initials of the primitive mass of blended fibres. This band, in passing along the base of the left ventricle, makes at first a gentle twist of its fibres form- ing the brim of this chamber; it afterwards makes a sharp twist and assumes the form of a rope, by which means its fibres are transferred to the interior of the ventricle. In descending this chamber, they expand again into a layer, and wind spirally round its cavity, first forming the internal layer, R, of the septum, and then associating with the expanded fibres of the two carneae columnae, and thus arrive at the points from which we commenced tracing them. We now return to the anterior edge of the septum, S, in order to trace the shorter band. At this part the primitive mass of blended fibres splits into two bands : the longer passes behind the right ventricle through the septum as already described ; the shorter passes in front. The shorter first receives a considerable accession of fibres from the right surface of the septum, which pass down from the aorta, and from the two Games columns springing from this sur- face : it is lettered Cacc ; it describes one spiral circle round both ventricles. It first passes over the lower half of the right ventri- cle, forming the apicial band of the middle layer of its proper wall, and then round the left ventricle in an oblique direction to the base, and terminates at the aorta near the anterior coronary track, having completed its spiral circle round the heart. As the demonstration has, in reference to the construction of the septum and of the right ventricle, been unavoidably disconnected, it is requisite to give a more systematic and com- prehensive description of their particular for- mation. The septum is composed of three layers : a left, a middle, and a right layer. The two former properly belong to the left ventricle ; and the last or right layer exclusively pertains to the right ventricle. The two former are composed of the primitive mass of fibres de- rived from the rope and the carnece columns? of the left ventricle; the left layer being formed of the expanded fibres, R, of the rope, Rii,^g.280, in their first sweep round the cavity ; and the middle layer of the continued fibres of the rope in its second sweep, blended with the ex- panded fibres of the two carneae columnae. These blended fibres form the extended layer crc ; its cut edge a applies itself to the cut edge b, evidently forming the middle layer of the septum. The last or right layer of the septum has not the same origins as the two former have. Its fibres arise from the root and lower margin of the valve of that section of the aorta which pertains to the right ven- tricle, from that part of the root of the pulmo- nary artery contiguous to the aorta, and from the carneae columnae of the right surface of the septum. The fibres attached to the aorta and pulmonary artery may be seen in fig. 278, lettered a and r respectively, and in Jig. 280 the fibres from the aorta blended with those of the car- neae columnae are exhibited marked acc, forming the right layer of the septum. The right ventricle.—Although the right layer of the septum belongs anatomically to the right ventricle, yet when functionally considered it pertains, as well as the other layers, entirely to the left. For the concavity of this layer is, like that of the other layers of the septum, to- wards the cavity of the left ventricle, and therefore during the systole approaches the axis of this cavity, while it recedes from that of the right ventricle ; thereby assisting in the propul- sion of the blood from the former, and to a limited extent counteracting the propulsive effort of the latter ventricle. The right ventricle has, therefore, but one proper wall, which is connected to the left ventricle in a manner to be described hereafter. The right chamber should be divided into three channels: the auricular, the pulmonary or ventricular, and the apicial. The auricular is that which receives the blood directly from the right auricle; the pulmonary is that formed by the fibres which arise from the root of the pulmonary artery at its entire circumference : in Jig. 278, the pulmonary artery, pp, and the fibres, p, are seen turned a little upon their axis, by which means the fibres are rendered oblique, and the channel the more complete; and the apicial channel is that which forms the channel of communication between the other two, and which extends to the apex. The pro- per wall is considered as having three layers, the superficial, middle, and internal, although they cannot always be detached from each other. The superficial is composed of the mere superficial fibres of this wall, having the same origins and terminations as have its sub- jacent fibres; it forms the left wing Cacc of Jig. 279, and may be seen in Jig. 281, raised from the right ventricle and reflected over the base marked Cacc The middle layer is composed of two bands, the apicial and the basial. The apicial is formed of the first semi- circular portion of the shorter band of the heart, and passes over the lower half or apicial channel of this chamber; it lies separated and extended over the apex of Jig. 281, marked Cacc The basial bind of this layer is formed of the first semicircular portion of the longer band as it makes its second circle round the heart. It is bisected and separated as seen at Cpcaa, of Jig. 281; in its natural situation it passes over the pulmonary and auricular channels of this ventricle, and is closely connected to the base. The internal 2 t 2