40 ECHINODERMATA. very simple (fig. 20, e,f, g, h.) At the mouth it is surrounded by the tentacula and calcareous ring already described, it passes back- wards on the right side the whole length of the body (from e to/,) then bending forwards it returns to near the mouth (from f to g,) and at last runs back again to the posterior extremity (from g to A,) where it terminates in a short and wide cloacal cavity (d), common to it and the respiratory organ, and opening externally at the anus. The intestine is fixed by a mesentery, and the cloaca is con- nected to the parietes of the body by numerous muscular bands de- rived from the transverse muscles. The coats of the canal are thin; Tiedemann enumerates three, an external derived from the perito- neum, a middle which is very vas- cular and contains muscular fibres, and an internal or mucous. In H. tubulosa a small part of the canal near its commencement is wider than the rest, has thicker coats, and is more decidedly mus- cular; Tiedemann regards this part as the stomach. In H. pentactes, the part immediately succeeding the oesophagus and ex- tending nearly to the first flexure, is somewhat cellular and at the same time wider, but thin- ner in its coats than the rest of the canal; this part is considered to be the stomach by Meckel. It is a singular fact, which it appears was first noticed by Iledi, that several species of Holothuria, on being taken from the sea and put into a vessel of sea-water, discharge their intestine and part of the respiratory organ through the anus. This operation is effected by repeated contractions of the cutaneous muscles, and some naturalists are disposed to regard it as a voluntary act. 4. Respii'atory organs.—The Echinodermata breathe through the medium of sea-water. In the star-fish and urchin the water enters the body, passing into the space in which the viscera are lodged, and this cavity, which, as already stated, is lined by a peritoneal mem- brane and occupies the greater part of the body, is generally regarded as the chief seat of the respiratory process. In the Holothuria the water is alternately drawn in and expelled from a tubular respiratory organ ramified within the body. a. In the star-fish the water is generally be- lieved to enter and issue from the body by numerous small tubes on the surface, which have accordingly been named the respiratory tubes. These are very small, membranous, and in figure somewhat conical (fig. 298, c, c, p. 615, vol. i.); they communicate at their base with the interior of the body, and are perforated at the summit by an orifice which can be very accurately closed. Most of them are placed in groups or patches, and opposite Fig. 21. Portion of the shin of Asterias rubens, seen on the inside and magnified, c, c, peritoneal membrane raised. each group the fibrous membrane forming the wall of the body presents on its inside a shal- low pit (fig.2l, a; fig.298, vol. i. e; fig. 16, s,s,) perforated with holes, through which the tubes communicate with the internal cavity. The tubes are formed externally of the superficial layer of the skin, and are lined in the inside by a prolongation of the peritoneal membrane. This membrane lines the parietes of the body, and is reflected over the contained parts; at least it covers the stomach and caeca, and pro- bably also the ovaries and vesicles of the feet; opposite the perforated pits it sends prolonga- tions (b, b,) through the holes into the tubes, as may be easilv seen on stripping off" a portion of it. There can be no doubt that sea-water enters the peritoneal cavity. The animal slowly dis- tends itself with that fluid, and again, but at no stated interval, gives out a portion of it: this is obvious from the fact that the same animal may be seen distended at one time and flaccid at another. Naturalists are generally of opinion that the water enters and issues by the respiratory tubes, and indeed no other orifices have been discovered; we must, however, freely own that we have never been able actually to observe its passage through these tubes. The peritoneal membrane seems to be the principal seat of respiration; spread over the viscera and the parietes of their containing cavity, and lining the respiratory tubes, it pre- sents a great extent of surface continually in contact with the surrounding medium ; and we have found that a beautiful provision exists for maintaining currents of water along the mem- brane, and thus effecting that constant reno- vation of the fluid in contact with its surface