ANIMAL HEAT. 649 whole subject has never been presented in a connected and systematic manner. Since it is proved that the temperature of the human body varies, we can only obtain an approximation to its actual amount by taking the mean of all the good observations that have ever been made, being particularly care- ful to include the extremes ; for a mean gives but a very imperfect idea of a term that ought to represent a variable number, if the limits are not at the same time assigned and taken into the account. The best observations of this kind, provided they be sufficiently numerous, will be those that have been made by the same individual, inasmuch as there is great likeli- hood that he will always have made use of the same procedure and of the same instruments, by which the results become more readily com- parable one with another. Temperature of the human eody.— In the following obseivations we shall make use of the measures of temperature given by Dr. John Davy. These amount to one hun- dred and fourteen in number, and were made on individuals of both sexes and of different ages in three quarters of the world, in Europe, Asia, and Africa, in different latitudes, under various temperatures, and among individuals of different races. But, as the knowledge of the mean and extreme temperatures of the body of man would have little value apart from the statement of the circumstances and conditions under which they were ascertained, we shall at the same time give the ages of the subjects and the temperature of the air at the time of the observations. The mean age of the subjects of Dr. Davy's observations was twenty-seven years. The mean temperature oftheairwas 23°, 3 c. (74° F.*)be- tween the limits of 1.5°, 5 (60° F.) and 27°, 8 (82° F.). In these circumstances the mean temperature of the body, which was always taken in the mouth, was 37°, 7 (100° F.) be- tween the extremes 35°, 8 (96°, 5 F.) and 38°, 9 (102° F.). The greatest difference in one hundred and fourteen observations, there- fore, scarcely exceeded three degrees. The temperature of the human body thus obtained might be considered as exact if the conditions of age and external atmospheric temperature approached pretty closely to their respective means. This, in fact, was the case as regards the first term, but not as concerns the second ; for some of the observations were made under very intense degrees of heat, such as 27°, 8 (82° F.), but none at the opposite extreme, or at a temperature which could be reputed cold, a temperature of 15° (59° F.) being already suf- ficiently agreeable. So that if the temperature of the air influences that of the body, a ques- tion which we shall examine by-and-by, the mean which we have stated as the temperature of the species would be too high. It is of some consequence to pursue * [The valuations according to Fahrenheit's scale the editor desires may be regarded as mere though close approximations to the indications according to the centigrade scale.]—Ed. these inquiries among the lower members of creation, among animals; and the writer to whom we are indebted for the observations quoted upon man has also made a great num- ber upon the lower animals. We shall there- fore continue to make use of this series of experiments, as we have already made use of that which bore upon man individually. Temperature of the Mammalia.—The observations here were made on thirty-one dif- ferent species taken from among the principal divisions of this class, and under a mean tem- perature of the external air equal to 25° (77° F.), between the limits of 15° (59° F.) and 30° (86° F.). The mean temperature of the body of the Mammalia was 38°, 4 (101°, 10 F.), the max- imum being 40°, 5 (105° F.), the minimum 37°, 2 (99° F.). The extent of variation Con- sequently presented by the Mammalia, 3°, 3 of the centigrade scale (6° F.), is nearly equal to that exhibited by man. But there is this difference between the two scales, that the extremes and the mean in the case of man are inferior to the corresponding terms in the case of the Mammalia. Temperature of Birds.— The observa- tions here were made on fifteen species in different orders. The mean temperature of the air was 26°, 1 (79° F.), between the extremes 15° (59° F.) and 31°, 5 (88°, 75 F.). The temperature of the subjects of the experiments offered a mean of 42°, 1 (107°, 86 F.), the su- perior limit being 43°, 9 (111° F.), the inferior 37°, 2 (99° F.). The temperature of birds, therefore, presents a scale much more exten- sive than that of man and the Mammalia, amounting to as many as 6°, 7 degrees centi- grade (12° F.). It also stands above both of the others in the point of its mean, which is higher by 3°, 7 (6° F. nearly) in its upper limit, and 5° centigrade (about 9° F.) higher in its lower limit. The lower limit, in tact, corresponds very nearly with the mean term of the heat of the Mammalia as exhibited in the preceding scale. But in neither scale can we say much in regard to the inferior limit, inas- much as no observation was taken at a tem- perature lower than that of fifteen degrees cen- tigrade (59° F.). When we compare the preceding statements of the temperature of animals, it is apparent that it varies but little between one species and another of the same class. In passing to dif- ferent classes, however, the difference becomes very considerable, and though the observations are here much fewer in number, they are per- fectly satisfactory as regards the general result. Temperature of Reptiles.— From nine observations made on members of the four orders of Reptiles, Dr. Davy found, the ex- ternal air having a mean temperature of 26°, 5 (79°, 75 F.) between the extremes 32° and 16° (89°, 5 and 60°, 75 F.), that the temperature of Reptiles was not higher than 28° (82°, 5 F.). Temperature of Fishes.—If from Rep- tiles we pass to Fishes, corresponding and even more remarkable differences are perceived. Dr. Davy, indeed, gives the temperature of