43 ECHINODERMATA. this vessel or its branches and the rest of the vascular system, and he professes himself at a loss to conjecture what may be its function. According to Delle Chiaje the circular ves- sel (i, i, Jigs.12 and 22,) into which the canals of the feet open receives also the veins from the up- per surface of the cceca and stomach. The same vessel, which he names the venous sinus, gives out—1. twenty short dental arteries; 2. the mesa- raics to the under surface of the cceca; 3. five vertebral arteries which open into the vesicles of the feet; 4. the radial to the under part of each ray; 5. the dorsal arteries to the upper part of the ray, which extend their ramifications to the external surface of the body. b. Echinus. A circular vessel, supposed to be of a venous nature, surrounds the anal extremity of the intestine (fig. 19, at c), being situated on the internal surface of the shell. A vertical vessel (e, cut short) descends from it towards the lantern and opens into a short oval canal (h) with muscular parietes, which exhibits during life slow but distinct contrac- tions and dilatations, and which is therefore considered as a heart. The heart is situated near the commencement of the intestine; a vessel (i, i, i, i) issues from it which first sends branches to the oesophagus and the muscles and membranes of the lantern, and then runs along the whole intestine on its inner border, first increasing somewhat in diameter, afterwards gradually diminishing as it ap- proaches the anus, where it terminates. This vessel gives off at all points of its course small branches to the intestine; it contains a dark yellow fluid coagulable by alcohol, and its parietes contract on mechanical irritation; Tiedemann conceives it to be an artery. Ano- ther vessel (A', k, k, k) equal in length to the last described, but not directly connected with the heart, runs along the intestine on its outer or mesenteric border; it also is widest in the middle of its course, fiom whence it may be traced in one direction as far as the lantern, and in the other to the vicinity of the anus. Along its whole course this vessel receives small branches from the intestine, and gives off branches from its other side, which pass along the mesentery to the internal surface of the shell, and are ramified on the lining or peritoneal membrane. Tiedemann regards this vessel as a vein ; but as it does not directly communicate with either the heart or the cir- cular vessel, he conceives that the fluid which it circulates is conveyed into it by one set of branches, and out of it by the other, the in- testinal being its entering and the mesenteric or peritoneal its issuing branches. Lastly, the circular vessel placed round the termination of the intestine receives several vessels which come from the peritoneal lining of the shell, and whose commencing branches are probably continuous with the terminations of the peri- toneal branches from the longitudinal vein. Tiedemann conceives the circulation to take place in the following manner. The blood passes from the circular vessel into the heart; it is then propelled along the artery and its branches; from these it passes into the veins of the intestine, which also absorb the chyle, and the mixed fluid is conveyed into the great longitudinal vein; it next passes into the branches of this vessel, which are distributed to the lining membrane of the shell, and is at last conveyed back by another set of vessels into the circular vein, from which we have supposed it to set out. That this is the course of the circulation is inferred from the anatomy of the circulating organs. On similar grounds Tiedemann with great probability supposes that the blood undergoes its respiratory change, at least chiefly, in its passage through the vessels of the peritoneal membrane, being there most effectually exposed to the influence of the water; he accordingly compares the branches of the great vein which ramify on that membrane to pulmonary or branchial arteries, and the vessels which return the blood to the circular vein, together with that vein itself, to pulmonary veins. He found that the fluid contained in the longitudinal vein was of a yellowish white colour, from which cir- cumstance, as well as from the fact that he could discover no special chyliferous vessels, he inferred that the chyle was absorbed by its intestinal branches. This vein did not con- tract on the application of stimuli. Delle Chiaje's description of the vessels of the Echinus is in substance as follows. An annular vessel surrounds the oesophagus; it receives the termination of the intestinal vein, and gives out the intestinal artery, which like the vein runs along the intestine, and also five oesophageal arteries, which before ramifying on the mouth communicate (by means of a branch passing between the muscles of the teeth) with the dorsal arteries. These last are the canals of the feet; they run along the ambulacra to the anus, where, according to Delle Chiaje, they form a ring, and in their course send lateral branches into the feet. c. Holothuria. A vessel (Jig. 20, i, i, i, i,), which Tiedemann conceives to be the great artery, runs along the free border of the intes- tine. It is widest in the middle, and gradually disappears posteriorly in the neighbourhood of the cloaca, while anteriorly it forms an annular vessel (at e) round the stomach, out of which branches proceed to the stomach, the ovaries and the sac connected with the canals of the feet and ten taenia formerly described. A short but wide anastomosing branch (cut at k, k,) passes from the artery about the middle of the first portion of the intestine, to join it again at the middle of the second portion (m), that is, nearly about the middle of the arterial trunk itself. Slow contractions, followed by dilata- tions, were observed by Tiedemann in this vessel; they commenced at the middle or widest part, and proceeded in opposite direc- tions to its two extremities, carrying on the light brown-coloured blood contained within it in a corresponding manner. The main artery, which seems thus also to serve the purpose of a heart, sends in its course numerous branches to the intestine, from these the blood is received by the commencing veins, which, uniting to- gether at the opposite or attached border of the