GANGLION. 371 ment to the lachrymal branch of the fifth. Before its entrance into the orbit the nerve receives a filament from the sympathetic,* and at or immediately after entering, it receives one also from the frontal branch of the fifth, by the accession of which it is sensibly increased in size. It is very closely connected to the frontal itself at the back of the orbit. Upon the fourth nerve the power of the superior oblique muscle is considered to depend. It is remarkable that this muscle should be provided with an especial nerve, differing, apparently, so much in its encephalic relations from those by which the others are supplied ; but the theories which have been advanced upon the subject are as yet so unsubstantial, that we think it better to leave them untouched. (See Orbit, muscles of the). The nerve exists with similar relations in all the veriebrata. For the Bibliography, see Nerve. (B. Alcock.) GANGLION, (Gr. yayyXiov, Germ. Nerven Knoten.)—This term is applied to several dis- tinct structures : to the nodules placed on cer- tain nerves, to the lymphatic glands or gan- glions, to certain bodies, as the thyroid, the thymus, &c, which have been called by some anatomists vascular ganglions, and lastly, in surgical language, to the enlargement of the synovial bursas. It is, however, most gene- rally applied to the ganglions of the nerves; but of late years many anatomists, who con- ceive that the various masses of grey matter met with in the encephalon and spinal chord are, together with the ganglia of the nerves, sources of nervous power, have extended to those masses the general term of ganglion. Although there can be no doubt that the analogy has a real foundation, and that this application of the word is both convenient and correct, it is nevertheless proposed, in obe- dience to custom, to retain the old and more limited sense of the term ganglion, and to devote the present article to the structure of the ganglions of the spinal and sympathetic nerves, referring the reader for an account of the functions of these bodies to the articles Nervous System and Sympathetic Nerve. The nervous ganglions consist of a number of oval or roundish organs connected with certain nerves, and placed deeply in the trunk of the body, to which they are confined, being situated, with the exception of those of the head, in the immediate vicinity of the vertebral column. Their number and size are subject to variation, not only in different persons, but even on the two sides of the same individual; the following is the enumeration which approaches nearest to the truth: thirty on each side of the body, placed on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves; one on each side, situated on the larger origin of the fifth pair; the ganglions of the great sympathetic consisting of the follow- ing, connected on each side of the body with what * See Pauli in Muller's Archiv. for 1834. is regarded as the trunk of this nerve, viz. three cervical, twelve dorsal, three to four or five lumbar, three to five sacral; to these we must add some large masses placed near the mesial plane, viz. two semilunar, three or four coeliac ganglions, and one cardiac ganglion, first de- scribed by Wrisberg, but which is occasionally deficient; and lastly, forming a part of the great sympathetic, the ophthalmic, the sphenopala- tine, the otic, and the submaxillary ganglions, and a small body usually met with in the caver nous sinus, the cavernous ganglion. M. Hip. Cloquet has described in rather vague terms a small reddish mass placed in the anterior palatine canal, which he calls the nasopalatine ganglion ; but Arnold, Cruveilhier, and others deny, and with good reason, the existence of this body. A gangliform enlargement is con- stantly seen on the commencement of the ner- vus vagus, and a second lower down; a similar swelling is also placed on the glosso- pharyngeal nerve (g. petrosum). Professor Miiller of Berlin has discovered above this enlargement a true ganglion on the the. glosso-pharyngeal (ganglion jugulare nervi glosso-pharyngei), occupying half or two-thirds of the trunk of the nerve, and being precisely to that nerve what the Intervertebral ganglion and the Gasserian are to the spinal nerves and the fifth pair. My colleague Mr. Walker has shown me this ganglion, which is placed in the upper part of the foramen lacerum basis cranii posterius, and corresponds to the above descrip- tion.* Arnold has further noticed that at the junc- tion of the superior twig of the Vidian nerve, or nervus innominatus, with the facial nerve, there is a gangliform swelling.f Mayer has discovered a minute posterior root of the sublingual nerve, with a ganglion on it, in some mammalia (ox, dog, pig), and in one instance in man. Thus the total number of ganglions in the human body amounts to about one hundred and twenty-seven, exclusive of the gangliform enlargements on the pneumo-gastric, glosso- pharyngeal, and the facial nerves. These bodies have been variously arranged. by writers on this subject; thus by WeberJ they are divided into ganglions of reinforce- ment, such as those on the spinal nerves, and into ganglions of origin, of which those of the sympathetic, the ophthalmic, and the spheno- palatine are examples; whilst Wutzer,§ classing them according to their situation and relations, considers that there are three orders, 1. the cerebral ; 2. the spinal ; 3. the vegetative : the first comprises the Gasserian ganglion, the ophthalmic, and the ganglion of Meckel, to which must be added the otic ganglion of Ar- * This very interesting discovery confirms the opinion that the glosso-pharyngeal is, like the spi- nal and the fifth, a compound nerve of motion and sensation. See Medizinische Vereins-Zeitune. Berlin, 1833. t Icones Nerv. Corp. p. 2. tab. ii. and vii. t Anat. Compar. nervi sympath. § De corp. hum. ganglior. fabrica atquc usu, p. 52.