869 INSECTA. be seen that a large majority of insects have four states of existence,—the egg, the larva, the pupa, and the imago or perfect state. Until very lately, it was supposed that this peculiarity of existing at different periods under such different forms belonged only to this class of the Invertebrata, but recent observation,* as shown in the article Cirrhopoda, &c.,f has made it appear that there are other classes also which undergo metamorphoses, although in no instances do the animals continue so long in their preparatory states, nor undergo such remarkable changes of form in passing from one state to another, as insects. The egg.—In the egg, or earliest stage of extra-uterine existence, the insect continues for a longer or shorter time according to external circumstances. We have at present only to notice the external form, markings, and colour of the egg, which vary as greatly in the dif- ferent species as the locality in which it is placed by the parent. The greatest variety of these occurs among the Lepidopterous insects. In some, as in the butterfly, Pontia brassica, the egg is of an obtuse conical figure, like a Florence flask, and is beautifully ribbed and beaded on its exterior surface ; in others, as in one of the night-moths, Acronycta Psi, it is ribbed, and is flattened like a lens;J in the small but beautiful butterfly, Tliecla betula, it is shaped like a turban ;§ in Clisiocampa neustria, which glues its eggs together like a ring around the small branches of fruit-trees, it is cylindrical, and flattened at both ends, and in the puss-moth, Cerura vinulu, its form is compressed and lenticular. Among the Neu- roptera, Hemiptera, and Diptera there are other forms equally curious. The lace-winged fly, Chrysopa perla, suspends its egg in the air upon a long pedicle ;|| the egg of the water-scorpion, Nepa cinerea (fig. 3.52), is encircled at one extremity by a coronet of rays or processes,!! while in one of the dung-flies the egg has two projecting appendages which have somewhat the appearance of ears. The color and mark- ings of the egg are not so various as its form. In the common green grasshopper, Acrida viridissima, it is green, like the seeds of some plants. In Pedicia rivosa and Tipula oleracea it is perfectly black, and in other instances, as in Odonestis potatoria, it is beautifully en- circled with bands of white and green, or is speckled with darker spots, like the esgs of birds, as in Lassiocampa quercus. The prevailing colours, however, are yellow, as in the cylindrical eggs of the oil-beetles, the Mcloe and Proscarabai; or white as in the flesh-flies, Musca vomitoriu and duwestica ; or perfectly translucent, as in the saw-fly of the turnip, Alitalia centifolie. The external markings and sculpture on the egg are not less remark- able than its general form and colour. Some- * Phil. Trans, part ii, 1835. , f Vol. i. p. 692. t Sepp. § Id. quoted by Burmeister, Manual of Ento- mology (Trans.), p. 633. UReaumur, Kirby and Spcnce, vol. iii. p. 95. I Swammcrdam Bib. Nat. t. iii. figs. 7 and 8. times the egg, as above stated, is ribbed and beaded, sometimes excavated over its whole surface into regular cells like a honey-comb, at others it is imbricated like the tiling of a house, but in the greater number of instances it is smooth as in other animals. These peculiarities of form and color appear in many instances to have relation to the cir- cumstances under which the egg is deposited by the parent, to its preservation, or to the locality in which it is placed. The egg of Scatophaga stercoruria, Kirby, is only par- tially inserted into recent cow-dung,* with its auricular processes, through which it is sup- posed to respire, exposed to the influence of light and air; that of Chrysopa perla, K., the lace- winged fly, is attached by its pedicle in the midst of crowds of Aphides, upon which the young larva is to subsist ;f while the coro- netted eggs of Nepa (Jig. 352) are inserted into the stems of water-plants, with their processes only exposed,^ probably for the purposes of respiration, until the enclosed germs are stimu- lated into active existence by the vivifying influence of light and air, without which perhaps they would perish. This indeed happens with the eggs of the great water- beetle, Hydrous piceus (Jig. 330) which, ac- cording to Lyonet, are deposited in a little nest that floats upon the surface, and from which the larva; escape into the water immediately they are developed. We have found that if the eggs of this insect be allowed to fall to the bottom of a vessel of water, and remain there for some days, organisation proceeds in them for a day or two, after which they perish. For a similar purpose the eggs of Athalia centi- j'olia (Jig. 355), which require a high atmos- pheric temperature for their speedy development, are inserted into little spaces between the cuticle and parenchymatous tissue of the leaf of the turnip. In each of these instances the object to be insured is the safety of the egg itself; either its preservation from external injury, or its full exposure to atmospheric influence to accelerate its development. It may be re- marked as a general rule, that those eggs from which the larva; are most rapidly developed are those which require the highest tempera- ture and fullest exposure to the atmosphere. These are the external circumstances which greatly influence the development of the germ into the state of larva. The larva.—Immediately the insect is liber- ated from the external coverings of the egg it is called a larva. It is so designated from its then being as it were under a mask or in dis- guise, and unable to fulfil one of the principal objects of its existence, the continuation of its kind. In some species, as anions the Aptera, it has at this period the form of the parent, from which it differs in nothing externally but size, being always very much smaller. Instances of this kind occur in the Pediculi and Nirmi (fig. 351). In other species, examples of which are seen in the Cimkes, Btatta (fig. 343)» * Kirby and Spencc, vol. iii. p.97. + Reaumur, torn. iv. p. 376. j Kirby and Spcnce, vol. iii. p. 95.