FCETUS. same time a very close and intimate mutual dependence of the one on the other; and, con- trary to what we would at first expect, the health of the mother is more apt to suffer from morbid conditions of the foetus in utero than is the latter to be injured in its developement by the state of the mother's system. Thus we see how great a disturbance is often caused in the maternal system by a blighted ovum, or a dead and putrid foetus ; while, on the other hand, we frequently observe that women in states of the most infirm health,* both mental and bo- dily, nay even when sinking under the ravages of some wasting disease, or depressed and worn out by mental suffering, by want of food or ex- cessive fatigue, give birth to full-grown and well-thriven children. The affections to which the foetus is liable vary not a little according to the period of its existence at which we consider it; during the earlier periods, when the formative process is in most active operation, and the developement of the different organs is proceeding rapidly, many important and remarkable organic altera- tions take place; some from arrest of develop- ment caused by imperfection in or morbid alteration of the structures of the ovum ; some by destruction of parts already formed, by atrophy or inflammation, or both conjoined ; some by the effects of excessive secretion and the consequent unnatural distension, &c; while those affections, to which more strictly belong the name of diseases, affect the more matured foetus, whose organization approaches more closely that of the new-born child. In order to give a full account of the morbid and abnormal conditions of the foetus, we should embrace also those of its appendages or surrounding structures of the ovum ; these, however, will be alluded to at present only so far as is absolutely unavoidable, as they will receive full consideration in the articles Ovum and Placenta : and in like manner several varieties of malformation will be with more propriety described under the head of Mon- strosity, while others will be found under the account of the different organs concerned. The germ, even before its vivification in the ovary, may have a morbid taint communicated to it from the system of the female in whom it resides, or from that of the man with whom she cohabits, so that the tendency to disease or malformation sometimes precedes the first im- pulse that leads to the establishment of life. Another source of abnormal conditions in the foetus occurs in the cohesion or intus-susception of germs, in consequence of more than one ovulum being contained within the same vesi- cle ; under which circumstances unnatural union may take place between two foetuses, and give rise to the production of such anoma- lies in organization as the Siamese twins, or to other forms of foetal duplicity, more or less re- sembling the remarkable instance represented in the annexed sketch of two children born a * See several instances recorded by Mauriceau, Malad. <les femmes grosses, vol. ii. obs. 439, 497, 530, 622, (529, 656. few years since at Boyle, in the county of Ros common. Fig. 146. They were born alive, and lived for more than a week ; after death they were sold to the College of Surgeons in Dublin, in whose mag- nificent Museum a preparation of.their skeleton is preserved.* The writer lately received from the President of the College of Physicians, Dr. Croker, two hen's eggs united at their end by a connecting stalk as thick as one's little finger, which, in common with the two eggs, was covered by a tough white membrane. From intus-susception of one germ within another, arise also some very singular pheno- mena, such as the existence of perfect teeth set in bony sockets, long hair, &c. in situations far remote from those in which such structures are naturally formed; and the still more extra- ordinary fact of foetuses being found within the bodies of males;! facts which, in the opinion of the writer, can be explained only on the supposition of original intus-susception of germs, constituting that abnormal condition which has been called monstrosity by inclu- sion ;X an accident which appears to be by no means confined to the germs of the mammalia nor even of the animal kingdom. The writer has in his museum a small egg about as large as a gooseberry, which was found within ano- ther egg of the common hen, which also oc- curred to IIarvey,ยง who says, " I have seen an exceeding small egge, which had a shell of its own, and yet was contained within another egge, greater and fairer than it, which egge also had a shell too. And this egge I shewed King Charles my most gracious master in presence * See also case by Dr. Alcock in Dublin Medical Essays, vol. ii. p. 33, and Hall on the Ca?sarean operation, p. 470. t Med. Chir. Trans, vol. i. p. 234, case of a foetus found in a young man, by Nathaniel High- more, 1815. t See Archives Generales de Medecine, torn. vii. p. 355. $ Exercitation xi. pp. 50, 51 ; Ent's translation.