ENDOSMOSIS. 103 in silence all the proofs that seem to establish this theory upon a basis of sufficient solidity ; for I cannot but perceive that it is applicable to the most general phenomena of endosmosis, phenomena, too, which the acids, like all other fluid bodies, exhibit, although they also present endosmotic phenomena in addition of a diffe- rent nature, and which belong to them exclu- sively. Inequality of density being one cause of en- dosmosis among fluids, it became a point with me first to ascertain what differences in power of capillary ascension resulted from determi- nate differences of density among fluids ; and next, to discover whether the difference in power of capillary ascent of two fluids bore any constant ratio to the difference of endos- mosis as it is proclaimed by experiment. The height to which different fluids rise in capillary tubes depends on a variety of causes, in appearance very different, but which must have some fundamental analogy. Of all fluids water is that which rises highest; and sub- stances held dissolved in it which increase its density, lessen its power of capillary ascent, which is also diminished by increase of tempe- rature : hot water ascends a less way in a capil- lary tube than cold water. Combustible fluids, such as alcohol and ether, are like dense fluids in regard to power of capillary ascent; so that combustibility acts in the same manner as den- sity in this respect. The matter of which ca- pillary tubes are formed is also endowed with the power of modifying the capillary ascent of fluids. Thus water, at the same temperature, will not rise to the same height in a series of equal capillary tubes made of different mate- rials. These multiplied elements, which enter into the determination of the capillary ascend- ing power of different fluids, render it an ex- tremely complicated phenomenon. To simplify the study of this phenomenon in the greatest possible degree, let us confine ourselves to the use of two fluids, namely, water and a solution of the hydrochlorate of soda. It is easy to try the latter fluid of different densities, and to compare the power of capillary ascent pos- sessed by each of these with that of pure water at like temperatures. The same glass tube will answer for these comparative experiments. Be- fore detailing these experiments, however, I have one important remark to make, which is this; that the layer of fluid which moistens, internally, the canal of a tube is one of the elements of the capillary ascension which this tube effects. Thus, water will rise to a de- terminate height, in a tube interiorly moistened with water; but if the interior of the tube be moistened by a saline solution, or by any other watery fluid, or by alcohol, pure water will not again rise so high in this tube as when it was moistened by water only. It will be in vain to attempt to cleanse the tube by passing water repeatedly through it; water will never detach the stratum of saline or other liquid which ad- heres to it, and which diminishes its power of producing capillary ascension. To detach this stratum of fluid you must pass a filiform body repeatedly through the tube full of water; it is only by the rubbing of this body that the stratum can be detached. It must be evident after this observation, that in making experiments on the power of capillary ascension with various fluids and with the same tube, it is necessary to cleanse this tube with great care before each experiment; without this we should have de- fective results. We must also take care not to warm the tube by holding it between the fingers, for if the temperature be increased it will no longer exert so strong a capillary attrac- tion. Let us now pass to the detail of these experiments. I prepared a solution of hydrochlorate of soda, the density of which was 1.12, the den- sity of the water being one. I took a part of this solution and to it added an equal volume of water, which gave it a density of 1.06. I had thus two saline solutions, of which the excess of density, above the density of water, was 0.12 and 0.06. The excess was thus in the relation of two to one. From my former experiments, these two excesses ought to serve as measures of the endosmosis produced by each of these saline solutions, put successively into the same endosmometer plunged in pure water. In fact, having submitted both of the saline solutions to experiment, I obtained from the most dense solution an endosmosis exactly double of that which was produced by the least dense solution. I next inquired into the rela- tion existing between the known density of these two saline solutions and water, and the power of capillary ascension possessed by the three fluids. I took a glass tube, whose capillary action raised water to the height of 12 lines at a temperature of + 10 degrees It. (50 Fahrenh.) I found that the same tube, at the same tem- perature, raised to 6j lines the solution of hydrochlorate of soda, the density of which was 1.12, and that it raised to 9^ lines the solution of the same salt, the density of which was 1.06. 1. The capillary ascension of the water being .... 12 The capillary ascension of the most dense fluid being 6\ The excess of the capillary ascension of water is 51 2. The capillary ascension of water being ... 12 The capillary ascension of the least dense saline solution being 91 The excess of the capillary ascension of water is 21 Thus the two excesses of the capillary ascen- sion of water above the capillary ascension of each of these saline solutions are 5i| and 2^, or 4| and 2f. numbers which are in the relation of two to one, as are the two excesses 0.12 and 0.06 of the density of the two saline solutions above the density of water. Here, then, are two saline solutions which, put separately in relation to pure water, produce endosmosis intherelation of 2 to 1. Shall we refer this result to the