975 INSECTA. Fig. 432. a, part of the hepatic vessel of the larva of Sphinx ligustri when nearly full grown, showing the cceca ; h, part of the same in the pupa, the coeca disappearing, Durckheim, and others. From each of these supposed coeca in the larva of sphinx we have traced an exceedingly minute and transparent vessel which has appeared to be connected with other delicate ramifications, and sometimes with the immense quantity of adipose sacculi with which the whole viscera are surrounded. These Malpighian vessels undergo considerable, changes while the insect is passing from the larva to the perfect state. The cceca begin to disappear soon after the insect has entered the pupa state (b), and not a trace of them is dis- coverable in the perfect insect, so that the function of the organ is gradually diminished in activity. During the larva state they exhibit a remarkable peculiarity at their connexion with the alimentary canal which seems to have some reference to their function. It is a dilatation at the point of union of these vessels in the sphinx to form a single duct that opens into the ilium, and if these be hepatic vessels may represent a gall-bladder, as once observed to us by Dr. Grant, but the exact function of the vessels is very difficult to determine. The following observation which we made in the summer of 1832 and havesince repeated seems a little to show the nature of the contents of these vessels, and also of other parts of the alimentary canal. We gave sugared water, coloured with indigo, to some specimens of Vanessa urlica which had been confined for several hours without food after they had left the pupa state. On examining the insects about two hours afterwards the stomach was found filled with fluid containing a great quan- tity of pink-coloured granules, which appeared to be the vegetable indigo acted upon by the acid contents of the stomach by which it had become saturated, thus distinctly indicating the presence of an acid in the stomach during digestion. But it was remarkable that some of the indigo that had passed the pyloric extremity of the stomach, where these supposed biliary vessels enter, and had also passed throughout the whole length of the ilium and even in part into the colon, had been restored again to its original dark blue colour, thus indicating the presence of an alkalescent fluid secreted either by the hepatic vessels or the ilium along which the indigo had passed. But another curious circumstance was that the hepatic ves- sels also partook of the same pinkish hue as the contents of the stomach, which seemed to indicate that the contents of these also are acid. The conclusions we drew from these observa- tions, which we repeated very carefully in 1834, were, that there is an acid gastric juice secreted in the stomach during digestion, that the contents of the so-called hepatic vessels are probably also acid, and that an alkaline fluid is secreted by the ilium, otherwise the indigo reddened in the stomach could not have been restored to its original colour. These circum- stances seem to lead to the conclusion that the Malpighian vessels are rather uriniferous than biliary, more especially as they have been found by Chevreul* and Audouinf to contain uric acid; but if this be really their function, a question then arises why they are inserted so near to the pyloric extremity of the stomach in almost all insects, and the excreted fluid be thus required to traverse nearly one-half of the whole alimentary canal before it is ejected from the body ? This consideration still inclines us to suspend our opinion as to their true function, and leads us still to believe that they may be in some way connected with the function of digestion and assimilation. The anal or proper uriniferous organs.—We agree with Burmeister that the anal are the true urinary organs. They do not in general evacuate their contents directly into the canal, but on each side of the anus. They exist, as we have seen, in the Curabidte (Jig. 424, s), and their general form, as long ago shown by Dufour in these insects, is that of a long vessel convoluted upon the colon and emptying itself into an oval or kidney-shaped vesicle on each side of the colon, and terminating in a single duct close to the anus. Dufour found the minute vessel on the colon connected with an aggregation of rounded glandular bodies, each connected with the vessels by a very minute filament, but we have overlooked this structure in our own examinations. Neither have we seen it in the Di/ticida, in which each urini- ferous organ commences in two apparently coecal tubes, which, after being a little convo- luted, unite into one which empties itself into a vesicle on each side of the colon and rectum. Similar vesicles have been shown by Dufour in the Staphylinida, as in Staphylinus erythropterus and in the Sdphida, in both which we have ourselves distinctly seen them arising by a single vessel which empties itself into an urinary bladder on each side of the anus. In the Silphida this bladder opens directly into the termination of the rectum. The adipose tissue.—This tissue, which it is necessary to allude to in connexion with the organs of nutrition, consists of an immense number of little transparent membranous vesicles filled with opaque adipose matter, which, in the generality of insects, is perfectly white, but in others, as in the butterflies, is of a bright yellow colour. The vesicles are usually very irregular in form, being sometimes nearly oval and at others elongated or triangular. They communicate freely with each other and form a most intricate web or reticulated structure. They cover the whole of the abdominal viscera * Straus Durckheim,Considcrat. tkc. 1828, iv. 251, t L'institut. 135.