INSECTA. 951 passage between the two for the oesophagus. Each segment of the thorax contains a ganglion, the meta-thoracic one, which gives nerves to the wings, being the largest. In the abdominal portion of the cord, which extends as far as the penultimate segment, there are six double ganglia very distinct fr,om each other. This is exactly the number found by us in the same portion of cord in the Car-abida:, although, according to Burmeister, there are only five. Thus, then, in the Forficulida, in which there is the most extensive motion of the segments of the abdomen, there is the same number of ganglia as in the Carabida, in which most of the abdominal segments are anchylosed together and immovable, as in the Lamelli- cornes, in which the whole of the cord is situated within the region of the thorax. In the oil-beetles, as in Proscarabuvus vulgaris, there are as usual three thoracic ganglia, the largest being the meta-thoracic, although the proper wings, and scarcely even the elytra, do not exist. In the abdominal region there are five ganglia, but smaller than those of the thorax, although it is stated by Burmeister* that these ganglia of the thorax are larger than those of the abdomen when perfect organs of flight are developed, but smaller when they are absent. So far as our own observations have extended, we have invariably found the thoracic ganglia larger than the abdominal, whether organs of flight exist or not, a condition that might naturally be expected whether the ganglia be connected with the production of nervous energy in the parts, or be only the centres of sensation. In the full-grown larva of this insect, of which we have examined a considerable number, but which at present appears to be scarcely if at all known to naturalists, we have found twelve per- fectly distinct sub-cesophageal ganglia. Of these the fifth was the largest and separated from the fourth only by a very short cord, as were also the eleventh and twelfth, besides which the twelfth was larger than the eleventh, and ap- peared as if formed at an early period of two approximated ganglia. That in the earliest state of this insect there are thirteen sub- cesophageal ganglia seems highly probable. On watching the changes that tal<e place it is found that this double terminal ganglion becomes united to the eleventh, and that a similar union takes place between the fourth, fifth, and sixth, so that only five separate abdominal ganglia exist in the perfect insect. In the Forficula, which does not undergo a perfect metamorphosis, a similar change appears to take place at a much earlier period, the terminal ganglion being dis- tinctly formed of two masses, and the ganglion of the meta-thorax or wing-bearing segment of three. A similar change appears also to occur in the Staphylinidee. In Creophilus maxillosus (fig. 341), in which the abdominal segments are as freely moveable as in the Earwig, but which undergoes a more complete metamorphosis, there are nine sub-cesophageal ganglia, only the last three of which are abdominal, the last five segments being entirely without ganglia. * Op. cit. p. 281. There is exactly the same form and position of the nervous system in the common species, Goerius olens. On comparing these circum- stances it is found that a much smaller number of ganglia in general exists in those perfect insects which have undergone a complete meta- morphosis than in the'larva state, and than in those that scarcely change their form. In the Grylliim, Acrida viridisaima (fig. 410), there is Fig. 410. Nervous system of Acrida viridissirna. A, brain; 1), antennas; B, optic nerves 5 d, man- dibular nerve ; e, auxiliary connecting nerve ; 17, nerve of prothoracic legs ; i, of second pair of legs; k, third pair; «, tendon of llcxor mus- cle with its nerve accompanying it to its insertion at extremity of the femur; c, second head of the same flexor muscle at the end of the tibia. the same number of ganglia as in the Forficula, and a similar difference in the size of the thoracic ganglia. But in this insect there is also a closer lateral approximation of the abdo- minal cords, and a comparatively smaller size and more elongated form of their ganglia, evidently shewing a tendency to a more con-