ENTOZOA. 141 the gut, as it descends, gradually enlarging, to the lower part of the intestine, where it sud- denly contracts and runs down, as a very slender canal, to near the vulva. It is partly covered by two long slender bodies of a horny sub- stance, representing a bifurcate penis. From this comparison of different genera of the Nematoidea, it is seen that, although there are many varieties of structure in the efferent and copulative part of the male gene- rative apparatus, the essential or secerning por- tion uniformly consists of a single tube. A like uniformity of structure does not obtain in the essential parts of the female organs : in a few instances the ovary is single, correspond- ing to the testis in the male, but in the greater number of the Nematoid worms it consists of two filamentary tubes. The Strongylus gigas is an example of the more simple structure above alluded to. The single ovary commences by an obtuse blind extremity close to the anal extremity of the body, and is firmly attached to the termination of the intestine; it passes first in a straight line towards the anterior extremity of the body, and when arrived to within a short distance from the vulva, is again Fig. 95. attached to the parietes of the body, and makes Jpjk a sudden turn back- »B wards (f,fig- 95); it MvWRk then forms two long AwlHsm. loops about the mid- dle of the body and returns again forwards, suddenly dilating into an uterus (e), which is three inches in length, and from the anterior extremity of which a slender cylindrical tube, or vagina, about an inch in length, (e,d, Jig. 95) is continued, BWjpKK' ft X\ which after forming a ' 1 ■ small convolution ter- minates in the vulva, at the distance of two inches from the ante- rior extremity of the body. Rudolphi was uncertain as to the ter- mination of the ovi- duct in the Strongylus gigas, and Professor Otto, who appears to have mistaken its blind commencement for its termination, believed that the oviduct opened into the rectum. The theory which had suggested itself to Rudolphi of the corre- lation of a simple ovi- Anterior extremity of the duct in the female with Strongylus gtgas, showing ^ splcmum simplex the commencement oj the f , r . A t digestive and the termina- ot tne male, and Ot a Hon of the generative tube, double oviduct with the spiculum duplex, receives additional dis- proof from the circumstance of the uteri and oviducts being double in the Strongylus in- Jiexus and Strongylus armatus. In the former species (which infests the bronchial tubes and pulmonary vessels of the Porpesse, and which I once found in the right ventricle of the heart of that animal,) each of the two female tubular organs may be divided into ovary, oviduct, and uterus: the ovary is one inch in length, commences by a point opposite the middle of the body, and, after slightly enlarging, abruptly contracts into a capillary duct about two lines in length, which may be termed the oviduct, or Fallopian tube, and this opens into a dilated moniliform uterus three inches in length; the divisions here described were constant in several individuals examined, and cannot, therefore, be considered to result from partial contractions. Both tubes are remark- ably short, presenting none of the convolutions characteristic of the oviducts of Ascaris and Filaria, but extend, in a straight line, (with the exception of the short twisted capillary communication between the ovaria and uteri,) to the vulva, which forms a slight projec- tion below the curved anal extremity of the body. The reason of this situation of the vulva seems to be the fixed condition of the head of this species of Strongylus. In both sexes it is commonly imbedded so tightly in a con- densed portion of the periphery of the lung as to be with difficulty extracted; the anal extre- mity, on the contrary, hangs freely in the larger branches of the bronchi, where the coitus, in consequence of the above dispo- sition of the female organs, may readily take place. In the Strongylus armatus the two oviducts terminate in a single dilated uterus, and the vulva is situated at the anterior extremity of the body, close to the mouth. We find a similar situation of the vulva in a species of Filaria, about thirty inches in length, which infests the abdominal cavity of the Rhea, or American Ostrich. The single portion of the genital tube continued from the vulva is one inch and a quarter in length; it then divides, and the two oviducts, after forming several interlaced convolutions in the middle third of the body, separate; one ex- tends to the anal, the other to the oral ex- tremities of the body, where the capillary portions of the oviducts respectively com- mence. In the Asearis Lumbricoides the female organs (Jig. 96) consist of a vulva, a vagina, a uterus, which divides into two long tortuous oviducts gradually diminishing to a capillary tube, which may be regarded as ovaries. All these parts are remarkable in the recent animal for their extreme whiteness. The vulva (d, Jig. 72,) is situated on the ventral surface of the body at the junction of the anterior and middle thirds of the body, which is generally marked at that part by a slight constriction. The vagina is a slightly wavy canal five or six lines in length, which passes beneath the in-