84 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. it is more so than the shock produced by the Leyden phial; and Configliachi compares it to that caused by the contact of two poles of the voltaic pile. Ingenhousz thus describes his sensations under the discharge of the tor- pedo. " I took a torpedo in my hand, so that my thumbs pressed gently on the upper surface of the lateral fin, whilst my forefingers pressed the opposite side. About one or two minutes after I felt a sudden trembling in my thumbs, which extended no further than my hands ; this lasted about two or three seconds. After some seconds more, the same trembling was felt again. Sometimes it did not return in several minutes, and then came again at very different intervals. Sometimes I felt the trem- bling both in my fingers and my thumb. These tremors gave me the same sensations as if a great number of very small electrical bottles were discharged through my hand very quickly one after the other. Sometimes the shock was very weak, at other times so strong that I was very near being obliged to quit my hold of the animal."* Walsh ascertained that the same torpedo has the power of discharging in two different manners, so as to produce at one time the effect described by Ingenhousz as a trembling, and at another time a sharp instan- taneous shock closely resembling that produced by the discharge of a Leyden phial.f Accord- ing to Sir H. Davy, " whoever has felt the shocks both of the voltaic battery and of the torpedo must have been convinced, as far as sensation is concerned, of their strict ana- logy-"t Sometimes the torpedo buries itself in the sand left dry at ebb-tide; and it has occasionally happened, according to some naturalists, that persons walking across the sand, and treading upon the spot beneath which the electrical fish lay concealed, have received his discharge so fully as to be thrown down.ยง The effects produced by the discharge of the Gymnotus are more severe. When it is touched with one hand, a smart shock is generally felt in the hand and fore-arm; and, when both hands are applied, the shock passes through the breast. The discharges of large fish (they grow to the length of twenty feet in their native rivers) sometimes prove sufficient to deprive * Phil. Trans. 1775, 2. t Phil. Trans. 1773, 467. % Phil. Trans. 1829, 15. ยง The experience of Dr. Davy would lead us to call in question the possibility of such an occurrence ; for he has always found it necessary to touch the opposite surfaces of the electrical organs or organ to receive the torpedo's shock. He has irritated torpe- dos very frequently by pressing with the finger on different parts of the back, but however much the fish were irritated he never had any sensation re- ferable to the passage of the electricity. In corro- boration of his opinion that the fish cannot give a shock excepting the two opposite surfaces of its electrical organs be connected by conductors, Dr.D. states that when one surface only is touched and irri- tated, the fish themselves appear to make an effort to bring, by muscular contraction, the border of the other surface into contact with the offending body. This" is done even by fcetal fish. Phil. Trans. 1834.' men, while bathing, of sense and motion. Fermin found that a strong one had power to give a shock to fourteen persons at the same time ; and other experimenters have seen twenty- seven persons simultaneously receive its shock. Humboldt states that, having placed his feet on a fresh Gymnotus, he experienced a more dreadful shock than he ever received from a Leyden phial, and that it left a severe pain in his knees and in other parts of his body, which continued for seveial hours. Sometimes the discharge occasions strong contractions of the flexor muscles of the hand which grasps the fish, so that it cannot be immediately let go; and then, the shock being repeated still more severely, painful sensations are experienced thoughout the whole body, and headache with soreness of the legs remains for some time after.* Paralytic affections, as well as giddiness and dimness of sight, are said sometimes to have followed the reception of strong discharges.f It is stated by some observers that there are men who are as insusceptible of the shocks of electrical fishes as others are of those from the Leyden phial; and that women affected with nervous diseases are seldom conscious of receiving the discharge. Kaempfer asserted} that, by sup- pressing respiration for a short time, any man may render himself insensible to the torpedo's discharge; but this has been disproved by Walsh and other observers. Regarding the effects of the discharges of the other electrical fishes, we know very little. The shock given by the Malapterurusof the Nile and Niger (Silurus, Linn.) is said to be more feeble than that of the Torpedo, and yet very painful, attended with trembling, and followed by soreness of the limbs. In attempting to take an individual of Tetraodon electricus in his hand, Lieutenant Paterson (its discoverer) received so severe an electrical shock that he was obliged to quit his hold. The effects of the discharge of the Gymnotus on the larger animals cannot be better illustrated then by the account which Humboldt has given of the method of capturing the fish adopted by the South American Indians. This method consists in irritating the fish by driving horses into the pools which it inhabits. It directs its electricity in repeated discharges against these horses until it becomes exhausted, when it falls an easy and harmless prey into the hands of the fishermen. Humboldt saw about thirty wild horses and mules forced into a pool con- taining numerous Gymnoti. The Indians sur- rounded the banks closely, and being armed with harpoons and long reeds, effectually pre- vented the escape of the horses. The fishes were aroused by their trampling, and, coming to the surface, directed their electrical discharges against the bellies of the intruders. Several horses were quickly stunned, and disappeared beneath the surface of the water. Others, ex- hibiting signs of dreadful agony, hurried to the bank, with bristled mane and haggard eye, but * Bryant, Trans. Amer. Soc. ii. 167. t Flagg, do. ii. 170. - I X Amoen. Exot. 514.