441 GENERATION. correctly be regarded as the indication of the presence in the system of that quantity of nutrient matter, which, during pregnancy, is destined to serve for the nourishment of the child. We say that this flow does no more than indicate the surplus quantity of blood in the female genital organs; for, as Burdach remarks, the loss of six ounces of blood for ten successive lunar periods amounts to only three pounds twelve ounces, whereas the foetus and its appendages during that period attain the weight of from ten to fifteen pounds, to which we might add the enormously increased weight of the uterus in order to estimate the whole addition which is made to the uterine system during pregnancy. Again, during lac- tation or nursing the tendency to a super- abundance of blood or plethora in the uterus is generally relieved by the flow of milk from the mammae, which, as has already been remarked, sympathize very constantly with the uterus and other parts of the generative system. Such a tendency to plethora as that we have just alluded to, it is scarcely necessary to remark, can have no connexion with lunar or planetary influences, and we are, perhaps, more justified in classing it along with those other changes of the economy which indicate a remarkable ten- dency in the human constitution to periodical recurrence of its actions. The crises of fevers on days terminating periods which are most frequently of the dura- tion of seven, fourteen, twenty-one, or twenty- eight days, are of this kind ; and it is deserving of notice that menstruation recurs more fre- quently in periods, the number of days of which are multiplies of seven, than in any others.* It has been attempted to be shewn that the male is subject to a periodical plethora in some respects similar to that which gives rise to menstruation in the female, but without any just reason, unless we choose to consider as such the gradual accumulation of seminal fluid, which frequently takes place in healthy men of sanguine temperament, and which gives rise to its periodical emission. With regard to menstruation we shall only farther remark that, according to Ilaller, Bur- dach, and some others, women are more liable to become pregnant immediately or within a few days after the cessation of menstruation than at other parts of the interval; the probable reason of which will appear from details given in a subsequent part of this article. Periodical heat in animals.—None of the lower animals in the natural state appear to be subject to anything like a menstrual change or periodical discharge of blood. In lascivious Apes and in some of the domestic animals fed * According to the researches of Mr, Roberton of Manchester, detailed in an interesting paper, pub- lished in the Edinburgh Med. and Suig. Journal, vol. xxxviii. p. 237, out of 100 women, in sixty-eight the menstrual discharge returned every fourth week ; in twenty-eight every third week ; in one every se- cond week ; in ten at irregular intervals. These varieties usually exist as family and constitutional peculiarities. VOL. 11. highly, an exudation of bloody mucus from the vagina and external genital organs of the females sometimes occurs, but this is manifestly quite different from menstruation. There is, however, in most of the lower animals a very obvious periodicity in the functions of the reproductive organs; for while the human female is, during a certain period of life, nearly equally fit for propagation at all times, this is the case with very few animals, and, indeed, chiefly among those living in the un- natural state of domesticity. At certain seasons of the year there occurs in most of the lower animals a determination of blood to the genital organs of the female, accompanied by sexual desire, which leads them to the propagation of their species. This state of excitement, generally named " the heat,"* lasts for a longer or shorter period; in the ewe for twenty-four hours only, in the cow and mare for a few days, in the bitch nine or ten days, and in the hen-pheasant for as long as two months. In most animals, after it has run its accustomed course, it disappears naturally, but it is more certainly and sooner dispelled by fruitful sexual union. The heat belongs more properly to the female than to the male, as there are many species whose females receive the male only at par- ticular seasons, while the male is at all times fit for propagation. In others, constituting the majority of instances, the male organs are sub- ject to the same periodical increase of activity as the female. The male in these animals is usually in heat at an earlier period than the female.f In some animals there is a more frequent periodical return of the heat than in others; thus the ewe which remains unimpregnated conies in heat every fourteen days; the cow and some apes, the mare, ass, and buffalo every four weeks; the sow every fifteen or eighteen days; but in these animals the high feeding attendant on domesticity may very probably occasion a more frequent and less natural return of the period of heat than would occur in the wild state. It would appear that the season of the year at which animals most commonly breed is subject to very many and extensive variations, according to the temperature, latitude, and other circumstances connected with the country which they inhabit. During the continuance of the heat a peculiar odour is exhaled from the genital organs, and there exudes chiefly from the external organs some bloody mucus, which, in some lascivious apes, resembles blood so much as to have given rise to the belief already alluded to that these animals menstruate. Age at which puberty occurs.—The appear- * Termed the Itut in the deer, wild boar, tkc. t In some male animals the signs of heat are very apparent. The fine colour of the plumage of most male birds in the breeding season, the deep colour of the comb, &c. in gallinaceous fowls, the thickness and bushy hair of the deer's neck, the greatly enlarged size of the testicles in the cock- sparrow, may be mentioned as familial' examples. 2 G