GLAND. 487 of Glisson's capsules, and, lastly, of those which quit the organ. The limitation thus established, and which I have no doubt is strictly correct, may be applied to all those glands, such as the salivary, mammary organs, &c, which, like the liver, possess distinct lobules. In the kidney the true secreting structure is probably restricted to the serpen- tine tubes contained in the cortical texture, (canales corticales, or ducts of Ferrein,) the straight canals (tub. Belliniani) constituting the cones, which bodies, in a minute injection of the bloodvessels, are nearly colourless, being merely for excretion.* The testis, with its appendix the epididymis, presents an in- tricate arrangement; it is probable, however, that the principal secreting part consists of the seminal tubes which form the lobules, and that the vasa recta and efferentia are merely ex- cretory in their office; in the upper part of the epididymis a second secreting structure is met with, constituting the coni vasculosi, whilst the lower part containing the convolutions of the vas deferens is of the excretory character. It is proper to observe that the process of secretion is incessantly going on ; but with the exceptions of the mucous, sebaceous, and a few other glands, the fluids produced are destined to be poured out only at stated in- tervals ; it is, therefore, evident that some con- trivance is required, by which the several secre- tions may be retained, till the moment arrives when it is necessary they should be discharged. The liver may be selected to illustrate this principle : one of the most essential functions of that organ being the decarbonization of venous blood, its constant action is no less indispensable, indeed considering the whole animal series, is even more indispensable than that of the lungs themselves; and yet the pro- duct of that action, the bile, is only designed to be poured into the duodenum during the process of digestion. In order to obviate the irritation of the bowels that would result from the incessant discharge of the bile, and at the same time to economise that fluid, the gall- bladder is provided, which, receiving the se- creted fluid in the intervals of digestion, fulfils all the conditions required. The absence of the gall-bladder in several classes of animals can scarcely be admitted as being incompatible with this explanation; for the majority of these instances of deficiency occur in non- ruminant vegetable feeders, in several genera of the Pachydermata and Rodentia for example, in which it is evident that as the process of digestion must occupy a considerable period, a prolonged flow of bile is requisite, and a special reservoir is less necessary; in addition to * It is stated by Muller that all his researches induce him to conclude that the serpentine tubuli of the cortical part constitute the true secreting texture; an opinion which is corroborated by a very curious preparation contained in the museum of the Webb-Street School of Anatomy, in which a sac has been formed on the outer surface of the kidney, containing a number of small calculi, and having no connexion whatever either with the straight tubes or with the infundibula. which it is known that in some of these cases, as in the horse and elephant, the principal trunk of the biliary ducts is very large, and may in some degree supply the place of a gall- bladder* The urinary bladder is a provision rather of convenience than of necessity, enabling the animals that possess it to retain the urine as it flows from the ureters, until a considerable accumulation takes place. These are the only instances in the human body of a distinct re- servoir being provided ;f but every gland, by retaining its secretion in the excretory ducts, has a power of emitting the fluid, under certain circumstances, in larger quantities than usual, as in the case of the salivary and lachrymal glands; a similar accumulation must take place in the seminal tubes and prostatic ducts, and especially in the lactiferous tubes and their terminal sinuses. In animals the examples of distinct reservoirs are too numerous to be here enumerated. Structure of the secreting canals and excre- tory ducts.—It is now certain that all these tubes are composed essentially of a prolonga- tion of the mucous membrane. The former, according to Muller, consist only of a single coat, but it must be presumed that they pos- sess in addition a tunic, having, independently of elasticity, a power of contraction by whicli their contents are propelled often in a direction opposed to gravity, and in obedience to the application of a mechanical stimulus to the surface on which the ducts terminate. In the excretory ducts the internal membrane is sur- rounded by a fibrous structure, which is very apparent in some of the larger canals, and probably exists in all. The fibres of this coat are of a greyish white or brownish colour, and are often so fine and compact that they are distinguished with great difficulty. The real character of this structure is not known ; in appearance there is little or no resemblance to proper muscle; the action, however, of the excretory canal seems to require a contractile power; and Meckel states that he has dis- tinctly perceived circular fibres in the vas deferens, which tube is said to be distinctly muscular in the bull. Bloodvessels.—If it be recollected that the arteries carry to the glands the materials of their various secretions, and if the large quan- tity of fluid formed by those viscera be called to mind, we shall not be surprised to find that with a few exceptions, such as the lungs and the brain, there are no organs so abundantly supplied with arterial blood. This supply is in proportion to the activity of secretion, rather than to the size of the gland ; thus the kidneys, * Carus, Traite Elem. d'An. Comp. ii. p. 269. It may be proper to state that the Otter, according to Daubenton, possesses the above dilatation of the duct in conjunction with a gall-bladder. f Some anatomists conceive that the vesiculas seminales are merely receptacles of the semen ; but this opinion has been to a great extent aban- doned in England since the observations of Hunter. See the works of Hunter, edit, by Palmer, vol. iv. p. 20. Note, p. 26.