ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 78G ances which the post-mortem examination fur- ther disclosed, we merely state that evidences of diffuse inflammation of the mucous and submucous tissues of the pharynx and larynx, with purulent infiltration in the submucous tissue, existed with extensive bronchitis, as well as splenization of the lungs. It was more- over discovered that the right hemisphere of the brain was deficient, and that a cyst five inches in length and between two and three in its transverse diameter occupied the interval (which was an inch in depth) between the sur- face of the atrophied brain and interior of the calvarium; this cyst was filled with limpid serum. The whole of the left upper extremity was in a state of atrophy, flexed at the elbow and wrist-joints, and the forearm and hand were rigidly pronated. A case of congenital luxation of the left hip- joint very similar to the foregoing was under the writer's observation for some time as an out-pa- tient of the Richmond Hospital. This lad was on different occasions seen and prescribed for by Dr. Ilutton, who first recognized the nature of the case, and the other surgeons of the insti- tution. His name was Martin Hannon; he was a labourer, setat. 19 years. In his ordinary attitude, standing, the spine was curved laterally to the well-formed side, so that the line of gra- vity seemed to pass to the ground through the centre of the right or well-formed thigh and leg : on this side the pelvis was depressed, and on the opposite side elevated, so that the left lower extremity appeared three inches shorter than the right. The oblique position of the pelvis above alluded to accounted for much of this apparent shortening, which nevertheless, by accurate measurement from the spine of the ilium to the inner malleolus, was proved to be real to a certain extent, viz. one inch and a half. Next to the shortening of the limb, the most remarkable circumstances which caught our attention were the prominency and elevation of the trochanter major, which was found to be two inches above the horizontal Fig. 308. ramus of the pubis. The trochanter major was also behind its usual situation (Jig. 308). The hip-joint possessed a certain degree of the mo- tions of flexion and abduction, and when the patient was directed to extend the thigh back- wards, the motion about the sacro-lumbar arti- culations seemed preternaturally free. When the hand was placed on the left hip-joint, the head of the femur could be felt plainly to be situated in a very unusual position, namely, forwards and upwards, close to the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, and in advance of its neck and the great trochanter, which lay towards the ischiatic notch: if now a motion of rotation outwards were commu- nicated to the femur, the trochanter major moved backwards, while the head of the femur rolled forwards and outwards; and so very thin was the patient that the head of the bone could be seen and easily felt moving in this novel situation. The deformed thigh was at its upper part thrown much outwards (jig. 308), and to re- cover, as it were, this deviation outwards above, it passed much inwards towards its lower ex- tremity; the thigh and leg were cold and atrophied, and the poor lad had also that mal- formation of the ankle called valgus. He walked with the assistance of a stick, and in consequence of the double defect of the left hip-joint and ankle very imperfectly. The sound limb, which seemed, in standing, to bear the whole weight of the body, was very muscular, and was larger in proportion than to be expected, when compared with the left or deformed leg, thigh, chest, and upper extremities, which last presented no peculi- arities. Such were the notes the writer had taken of this case in December 1837, when the lad ap- plied to him at the hospital to be relieved of an indolent ulcer he had on the weak limb. In the beginning of the spring of this year he became affected with phthisis, and died of that disease in the VVhitworth Hospital on the 12th June, 1838. Mr. Smith had a cast taken of the lower part of the body, pelvis, and lower extremities, which is preserved in our Museum. The interior of the thorax presented the usual effects of phthisis. Left hip-joint.— The muscles around the joint were remarkably pale and greatly attenu- ated ; they held the same position relatively to the head of the bone, as in the preceding case of North, but they were more atrophied; in many places all appearance of muscular fibre was lost, and its place supplied by a yellow fatty fibrous tissue. The muscles of the rest of the extremity, particularly the gas- trocnemius and solceus, were in a similar con- dition. The sciatic nerve had not a very healthy aspect; it was yellowish; and its fibres, though firm, were more loosely connected than usual. The capsular ligament was remarkably thick, and was lined on its interior or synovial surface with a very red vascular membrane, like scarlet cloth. The internal ligament of the joint or ligamentum teres was fully three inches long, and much stronger than usual (Jig. 309); it