ENTOZOA. 143 The ova of the greater part of the Tremutoda are excluded prior to the full development of the fcetus ; they are generally of an oval but some- times spherical form, and many of them singu- larly resemble the seeds or capsules of certain mosses, in having a small circular portion of the outer covering separate from the rest, and closing the cavity of the egg like a lid. Nordmann has studied the development of the young of the Distoma hians, which infest the intestines of the perch. According to this excellent observer the foetus raises, in its en- deavours to slip out of the egg, the small lid, and writhes about for- some time, being still attached to one point of the egg. In about six hours it succeeds in freeing itself from the egg-coverings; and at this period it differs in every respect from the shape of the parent animal; the body, which is of a mucous con- sistence and perfectly transparent, is of an oval form ; the anterior mouth forms a small square- shaped projection, and the whole surface of the body is beset with many longitudinal rows of short cilia, which are in rapid and incessant motion, and create a vortex in the surrounding water, similar to that which the Polygastric Infusoria produce. The little animal having its anterior extremity diminish- ing to a point, is well formed for swimming, and by means of its vibratile cilia, quickly darts out of the field of vision when under the microscope. At the distance of one-third of the body from the anterior extremity there is a single coloured eye-speck, from which, when pressed between glass plates, there escapes a brilliant blue-coloured pigment. Thus orga- nized, the young of the intestinal parasite just described move to and fro in water as if this were their natural element, and approximate in form and structure most closely to the Poly- gastric Infusoria of the genus Paramaciuiii, Ehrenb. In this state, doubtless, they are ejected by the Fish, in the intestines of which they were originally developed, into the sur- rounding water, and when again received into the alimentary canal undergo their metamorphosis, lose, like the Lerneae and Cirripedes, the organ of vision which guided the movements of their young and free life, and grow and procreate at the expense of the nutrient secretions with which they are now abundantly provided. In the Cceklmintha the young cast their in- tegument, and would seem in some species, as the Fittirkt Medinaisis, to undergo a change in the form and proportions of the extremities of the body, but they do not possess cilia or ocelli, as in the Trematoda above-mentioned. The ova of the Linguutula are of an oval form : the germinal vesicle is situated near the superficies half-way between the two extremi- ties ; the vitelline membrane is surrounded with a strong cortical membrane : the develop- ment of the fcetus takes place out of the body. In the Strongylus gigas, Strongt/tus injiexus, and a species of Trichosoma infesting the in- testines of the Goatsucker, we have found the fcetus completely formed in the ova contained in the uterus or terminal segment of the gene- rative tube, while those in the ovary or narrow commencement of the same part were still occu- pied with the granular matter of the vitellus. The mature ova of the Strongylus gigas are of an elliptical form, and the embryo within is plainly seen coiled up through the trans- parent coats of the egg; the resemblance which these bear to the Trichina when inclosed in its inner cyst is very striking: the hypothesis suggested by this resemblance need only be alluded to for the purpose of exciting the at- tention of those, who may hereafter meet with the preceding minute muscular parasite, to the existence of larger Nematoid Entozoa in other parts of the body. Cloquet describes the ova in the beginning of the ovaries of the Ascuris Lwnbricoides as consisting of rounded linear corpuscles, pointed at one extremity, thickened at the other; in the middle of the ovaries they as- sume an elongated triangular form, and one of their angles frequently supports a small spherical eminence; the base of the ovum adheres to the parietes of the oviduct, the apex projects into its cavity. In the enlarged canals, which he terms the cornua of the uterus, the ova are unattached and of a conoid or irre- gularly triangular figure. In the uterus itself they have assumed an ovoid or elliptical form, are surrounded by a transparent glairy mucus, and are composed of a transparent cortical membrane, perfectly smooth on the external surface, and filled with a transparent fluid, in which floats a linear embryo, disposed either in a straight line or coiled up. Cloquet never observed the young Ascarides excluded from the egg in the interior of the uterus, and we equally searched in vain for free embryos in the generative tubes of the Strongylus and Oxyurus above-mentioned, although their de- velopment in regard to form appeared to be complete in the ovum; the structure of the embryo resembles that of the simpler Vibriones, there being no generative tubes apparent, and the cavity of the body being occupied by a granular parenchyma. With respect to the exclusion of the ova in these and similar ovo-viviparous Nematoid Entozoa, it would appear to be very commonly accompanied with a rupture of the parietes of the body and of the generative tube. Ru- dolphi observes, with respect to the Cucullanus, " Ovula, verme quieto, per intervalla ex vulva pullulent; quin eodem disrupto, quod saepe accidit, ovula vel embryones ex ovariis pro- lapsis parituque ruptis vi quadam et undatim protroduntur." The generation of the Filaria Mediaensis is of the viviparous kind, and the progeny is countless,—" Filaria? nostra," observes Rudol- phi, " prole quasi farctae sunt, quod si harum longitudinem illius vero minutiem spectas, foetuum multa millium millia singulis tribuit." What is most remarkable is, that these em- bryos are not, as in the Sti-ungt/lus and the Nematoid genera above-mentioned, enveloped in an egg-covering, nor are they included in a special generative tube, but float freely along witli a granular substance in the common mus- cular envelope of the cavity of the body.