ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HEART. 642 lesion which has been sometimes designated ' " aiieurisma herniosum," and sometimes " internal mixed aneurism." This form of arterial aneurism has been described by Haller, Dubois, Dupuytren, and Breschet. In a large number of these cases of aneu- rism of the heart, the pericardium has been at some period or other of the disease more or less extensively inflamed, and adhesions are consequently found: the endocardium like- wise frequently exhibits marks of inflammatory action, opacities, white spots, &c. and this sometimes extends to the valves. In some the muscular substance in the neighbourhood of the sac is degenerated, and assumes the cellulo- fibrous form.* Atrop/n/ of the heart.—The heart, or a por- tion of it, may be said to be in the state of atrophy, when its muscular fibres are pale, soft, easily torn, inelastic, attenuated, so that the thickness of the parietes is greatly di- minished, and the pericardium covering the heart or the atrophied part of it, is shrivelled and wrinkled. When atrophy affects the whole heart, that organ becomes much diminished in size, the capacity of its several cavities being proportionally diminished ; and in some in- stances the diminution of the general size ap- pears to be more at the expense of the dimen- sions of the cavities than of the thickness of the walls. Morbid deposit of fat on the heart (fatty degeneration of some authors). There is an alteration met with not uncommonly in the muscles of animal life, which is very often de- scribed as the fatty degeneration of muscle, but which is in truth an atrophy of the mus- cular tissue, and not at all a transformation into fat. This condition, which resembles fat only in its yellow colour, and may be easily distinguished from it by its fibrous form, has never, I believe, been met with in the heart; a perfect cessation from active contraction must be essential to its production; and as such a state of quiescence cannot occur in the heart during life, this form of degenerate muscular tissue is not found in that organ. We do, how- ever, meet with cases frequently, in which fat seems to take the place of the muscular fibres of the heart: in proportion as they appear to waste away the fat is deposited under the serous membrane, until the muscular parietes of the heart are reduced to a very thin lamina, of a pale colour and easily torn, between which and the pericardium a thick stratum of fat is deposited, so that a superficial examination might lead one to suppose that the walls of the heart were wholly converted into this tissue. The ventricles are generally, if not uniformly, the seat of this deposit, which must be re- garded as an increase in the deposit which is * On the subject of aneurisms of the heart, the reader may consult with benefit Corvisart's clas- sical work, Adams in Dublin Hosp. Rep. vol. iv., Dreschet sur IWneurysme Faux consecutif du Cieur, Rep. Gen. d'Anat. t. iii., Dr. Hope's work, Elliotson's Lectures on Diseases of the Heart, but especially the admirable paper of Mr. Thurnam. found naturally along the course of the coro- nary arteries. It occurs chiefly in old persons, and it is difficult to say whether the muscular atrophy which is always present is a con- sequence of the fatty deposit, or precedes it. So enfeebled has the muscular tissue become that persons labouring under this disease very commonly die of a rupture, or rather a giving way, of the wall of one of the ventricles. It occurs in persons of debilitated habits, who either are incapable of active exertion or from circumstances never attempt it, and, what is remarkable, the subjects of this disease are frequently very emaciated: thus M. Bizot* found this condition in fourteen out of twenty- nine emaciated females. The disease is like- wise more common in women than in men; and sometimes free oil is present in the blood in inordinate quantity. Such I believe to be the correct history of this state of the heart, of which most erroneous notions have been formed, owing in a great measure to the name under which the disease has been so often described. The description which I venture to offer has been drawn up from several cases of the disease in various grades of the deposit, which have come under my observation, and on comparing this description with some of the best detailed cases on record, it seems perfectly to con- sist with the appearances described in them. In Mr. Adams' case,f for instance, " the right ventricle seemed composed of fat, of a deep yellow colour through' most of its sub- stance. The reticulated lining of the ventricle, which here and there allowed the fat to appear between its fibres, alone presented any ap- pearance of muscular structure. The left ven- tricle was very thin, and its whole surface was covered with a layer of fat. Beneath this the muscular structure was not a line in thickness, and was soft, easily torn, and like liver." Two cases, recorded by Mr. R. Smithy presented the remarkable concomitant of an oily con- dition of the blood; in one " numerous glo- bules of oil were found floating on the surface of the blood which escaped from the divided vessels ;" and in the other " the surface of the blood was thickly covered with globules of limpid oil." In this last case the condition of the heart's substance is described as follows : " the heart was remarkably soft, pale, and flaccid, its substance most easily broken, and its surface covered with a layer of fat a quarter of an inch in depth; the parietes of the ven- tricles were thin." The anatomical condition of the former case is not so precisely described as to admit of comparison. The subjects of both these cases were old women, one aged ninety, the other seventy ; and the former died of rupture of the left ventricle. I am quite unable to account for the follow- ing description of a case by Dr. Elliotson. He says, " I once saw the muscular substance of the heart completely changed, except at the m Mem. de la Soc. Med. d'Observation, t Dublin Hosp. Rep. vol. iv. p. 396. \ Dublin Journal, vol. ix. p. 412.