1003 INSECTIVORA. cult, and require intense ardour and, perseve- rance to effect this object. The most remarkable and interesting pecu- liarities which are to be met. with in the struc- ture of any of the Mammalia are to be found in the eye of the mole, and doubtless of the nearly allied forms of Chrysochloris and the other subterranean species. In these, in order to meet the requirements of their habits, the organ of sight is reduced to a mere rudiment, whilst those of hearing and of smell are deve- loped to an extraordinary degree; and the theory of the balance of organs can scarcely boast of a stronger support in the whole range of animal organization than in this instance. The question whether the mole possesses vi- sion has been long and often debated. With- out entering into an unnecessary examination of all that has been said on both sides of the question, it may be well to observe that the principal argument which has been urged on the negative is derived from the absence of an optic nerve. That this animal, at least our common species, does possess the faculty of vision to a certain degree cannot, however, be disproved, whatever may be the means by which the sense is communicated, that is to say, whatever the nerve may be which supplies the place of the true optic nerve; and the ex- periments of Henri le Court and Geoffroi St. Hilaire* would well nigh go to prove the affirmative of the proposition. It has been urged then that an optic nerve is absolutely necessary to the existence of vision; and that, therefore, either the mole has a true optic nerve, or that it does not possess vision. There have indeed been three classes of observers on this point; those who maintain that the mole sees, and that it possesses an optic nerve ; those who contend that it is blind, and possesses no such nerve ; and others have ventured to agree with the former as to its power of vision, and with the latter in denying the existence of the optic nerve. The eye of the mole is extremely small, but differs not materially in its structure from that of other animals. The pupil is elliptic and vertical; the cornea even more convex than that of birds; there is a sclerotic and a true choroid. The crystalline lens is perfect, and much more convex than in most of the Mammalia; and the eye-ball, emptied of its contents, exhibits at the base a lining of a whitish colour. " In an injected subject," says Geoffroi, " the cen- tral artery of the retina was distinctly seen." Whether there be or not a true retina will be variously solved according to the views of dif- ferent physiologists. If the nerve, whatever it may be, which takes here the place of the optic nerve, be really the seat of the sense of vision, there seems to be no objection to con- sider its expansion, upon which the pictures of objects are impressed, as a retina; giving the name rather to the physiological than to the anatomical character of the part; but be this as it may, from the posterior part of this minute * Geoff. St. Hilaire, C'ours d'Hist. Nat. des Mam. lev. 16. eye there passes a distinct branch of a nerve. Perhaps, after all, the name and analogy of this nerve will be viewed differently according to the general views of organic developement entertained by different physiologists. Geoffroy considers it as the optic nerve, notwithstanding it has no connexion with that part of the brain which in all other cases is in immediate com- munication with it; and he founds this opinion upon the theory that all organs are developed from without. His words are as follow: — " Qu'est ce que ce nerf ? La monstruosite et la nouvelle theorie sur le point de depart des developpemens organiques assure ma marche: appuye sur ces deux fanaux, aujourd'hui heu- reusement importes dans l'histoire encore si obscure des premieres formations je ne doute pas que ce ne soit le nerf optique. C'est ce nerf, parceque cet appareil, qui est au complet comme globe oculaire, a du se former de toutes ses dependances jusqu'a l'empechement qui en arrete le cours. Cette determination ne sauroit etre douteuse pour qui reconnait que les or- ganes naissent a la circonference de I'etre, d'ou ils envoient leurs rameaux s'embrancher au plus pres dans le centre.* Amongst those who assert that the mole pos- sesses a true optic nerve is Miiller. His state- ment is so brief, and, it may be said, so unsa- tisfactory, that it can scarcely be considered as sufficient to outweigh the carefully formed opi- nion of many who differ from him. His state- ment, as given in Dr. Baly's translation of his admirable book, is as follows:—" Some ani- mals, though provided with eyes—for instance, the mole and the proteus anguinus—have been said to want the optic nerves; the sense of vision being then placed in the ophthalmic branch of the fifth nerve. This statement has arisen, in the case of the mole, from inaccuracy in the anatomical examination; and the same is the case probably in the Proteus. The mole has an uncommonly small optic nerve, as Dr. Henle has shewn me."f On the other hand, Serres, Gall, Desmoulins, and others have agreed in delating that there is no nerve passing- from the optic lobes to the eye ; and Dr. Todd has recently verified this statement, and traced the nerve which does supply this organ, which he finds to be the ophthalmic branch of the fifth pair. I give an enlarged view of a dissec- tion of this nerve, drawn by Mr. Bowman. (Fig. 453.) a is the fifth nerve within the cranium, b the Gasserian ganglion, c the inferior maxillary nerve, d the ophthalmic nerve going to the eye (e,) f the superior maxillary nerve, g branch of the ophthalmic, supplying the side of the nose. Dr. Todd in a letter to me says, " I have been lately looking at the point about the optic nerve in the mole. I can see an optic commis- sure, but no optic nerve beyond it, and I can very distinctly trace a branch [the ophthalmic] of the fifth to the eye. I carefully searched to see if a second nerve were bound up in the cellular sheath with it, but could find none. * Cours d'Hist. Nat. des Mammif. 16 If 9. p. 27. t Miiller's Phys. by Baly, p. 767.