INSECTA. 864 Brachelytra by tire forcipated anus, the great length of the antennae, and the breadth and circularity of the wings when expanded, com- pared with the narrow and acute ones of the latter insects. Order III. ORTHOPTERA. Wings four, anterior ones coriaceous, reticu- lated, and overlapping each other, posterior ones partly coriaceous partly membranous, re- ticulated, and folded longitudinally; head ver- tical ; mandibles, thick, strong, and dentated; palpi four, maxillary ones in most genera five- jointed. Metamorphosis incomplete. The larvae are active, and resemble the perfect insect. In this Order are included many remarkable families. The Locustid<e, Locusts; the Ache- tidic, the House and Mole-crickets (fig. 342); Fig. 342. Gryllotalpa vulgaris, (male). Mole-cricket. the Mantida, or praying insects ; and the Blat- tidce (fig. 343), or destructive Cock-roaches. Fig. 343. Blutta Orientals (male.) The Ccck-rOach. Order IV. NEUROPTERA. Wings four, linear, naked, membranaceous, and minutely reticulated; all employed in flight; head large, eyes projecting; body linear. This Order is divided into five sections. In the first section, Panorpina, or Scorpion- flies (fig. 344), the head is produced anteriorly Fig. 344. Panorpa communis (male). Scorpion-fly. ( Samouelle.J into a short rostrum, at the extremity of which is the mouth, as in some of the Curculionida:; the antenna; are long and filiform, and the body is slender, and terminates in the female in an acute ovipositor, and in the male in an articulated claw (a) like the tail of the Scor- pion, from which the insect derives its name. The larva is unknown, but is supposed to un- dergo a complete metamorphosis. The pupa or nymph is inactive.* The perfect insect is predaceous. In the second section, the Anisoptera or Ephe- meridtE, May-flies (fig. 345), are distinguished Fig. 345. Ephemera vulgata. May-fly. (Samouelle.) by the smallness of their posterior wings, by the shortness of the antenna;, and by the long setae at the extremity of the abdomen. The larvae are active, and much resemble the perfect in- sect. They reside constantly beneath stones, or in burrows at the bottom of running streams,! and undergo an incomplete metamorphosis. The pupa is active like the' larva. In the per- fect insect, which takes no food, and is prover- bially noted for the shortness of its existence, which is seldom more than a few hours, the parts of the mouth are almost entirely oblite- rated. In the third section, Libellulina, Dragon- flies, all the wings are of equal size, eyes large and prominent, antennae minute, body slender, * Westwood, Introduction to Entomology, vol. ii. p. 53. t Ibid. vol. ii. p. 29.