364 FORE-ARM. is a branch of the ulnar artery, and not unfre- quently is of large size, though usually of a calibre about intermediate to the two last men- tioned. It arises from the ulnar artery where that vessel is covered by the pronator radii teres, and descending towards the interosseal ligament reaches that structure a little below the tendon of the biceps. It is accompanied by a branch of the median nerve in its course downwards; lies between the interosseous liga- ments and the external edge of the flexor com- munis digitorum profundus; it terminates by dividing into two branches, of which one passes backwards through the interosseal liga- ment, anastomosing with the posterior inter- osseal, and the other, a small branch, descends over the wrist-joint into the palm of the hand, where it anastomoses with the deep palmar arch. In the posterior region of the fore-arm we meet with only one vessel of any size ; this is the posterior interosseal artery, a branch from the anterior interosseal, which passes through the interosseal ligament opposite the tubercle of the radius; its course is not so straight and uniform as the anterior, its distri- buent branches are larger and more numerous, and it may be said to ramble down between the extensor muscles and the interosseal liga- ment, though it does not lie so immediately in contact with the ligament as the anterior inter- osseal. It terminates by anastomosis with the vessels about the wrist-joint. Such is the usual distribution of these ves- sels ; they are, nevertheless, subject to every kind of variety,and theoperator previously to the commencement of an operation ought always carefully to examine the course of these vessels in order to detect any anormal arrangement either in relation to their size or distribution. The arteries of the fore-arm are more ex- posed to accidents from cutting instruments than most other vessels in the body ; and the usual plan of securing the vessel in these cases is to apply two ligatures on the wounded trunk, one above and the other below the orifice, the latter being required in consequence of the free anastomosis of the vessels in the hand. But the fore-arm is occasionally wounded by sharp penetrating instruments, which passing deeply into the fleshy mass, the vessel which has been wounded is not immediately indicated, and the surgeon is consequently at a loss to discover which of the three main trunks requires the application of a ligature. An examination through the wound would tend to aggravate the mischief, and besides, the search is often attended with difficulty, and often unsatisfactory. In such cases it will be found far more advantageous to arrest the hemorrhage by pres- sure on the brachial artery, at the same time allaying the local inflammation by due attention to the position of the arm, and the usual antiphlogistic remedies, a plan which I have seen adopted with great success by Mr. Tyrrell, at St. Thomas's Hospital.* * See St. Thomas's Hospital Reports, edited by John F. South, No. i. p. 25. There are some cases, however, which im- peratively require the application of ligatures, as for instance, when either of these vessels is opened by sloughing of the tissues from phleg- monous inflammation, or from aneurism in the fore-arm or hand. In the first of these cases, patients have frequently been lost from the temporary suspension of the hemorrhage by the use of cold applications or accidental circumstance, and its occurring again suddenly during the absence of the surgeon. In the performance of the operation of tying the radial artery the supinator radii longus muscle affords an unerring guide throughout the fore-arm, but the surgeon must remember that the inner edge of this muscle is not on the outer side of the fore-arm, but as nearly in the centre as possible. The needle must be passed from without inwards, in order to avoid wound- ing the nerve. The ulnar artery cannot be secured in the upper third of the arm, it lies so completely covered by most of the flexors arising from the inner condyle; as soon as the vessel has gained its position between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor digitorum communis, it may be easily reached, the former muscle overlapping it, and therefore forming an excellent guide. The needle in this operation must be passed from within outwards, as the nerve lies to the ulnar side of the artery. The bones of the fore-arm are not unfre- quently fractured, either singly or together, but the radius, from its external position and strong connection with the bones of the hand, is more frequently fractured than the ulna. The injury generally takes place a little above the middle of the bone. When both bones are fractured, the accident is frequently occasioned by the passage of a heavy weight over the limb, the violence acting immediately on the injured portions. Jn child- hood these bones are sometimes bent instead of being broken, and as the deformity is slight, though the effect altogether very serious, the nature of the accident is not very readily de- tected. " When these bones are fractured near their inferior extremities," says M. Boyer,* " the in- flammatory swelling might render the diagnosis difficult, and cause the fracture to be mistaken for a luxation of the hand. But the two cases may be distinguished by simply moving the hand ; by the motion, if there be luxation with- out fracture, the styloid processes of the radius and ulna will not change their situation; but if a fracture do exist, these processes will follow the motion of the hand." If the radius be fractured a little below the head and above the tubercle, that is, through the neck, and the annular ligament remain en- tire, the deformity is so slight that there is great difficulty in detecting the nature of the injury, especially if there be much swelling and effu- * Lectures of Boyer upon Diseases of the Bones, arranged by M. Richerand, translated by M. Far- rell, vol. i. p. 161.