4T3 GENERATION. superior qualities. Bad qualities may become fear that the mind, with all its peculiar tastes, as fixed as good ones, and a judicious selection prejudices, and passions, has too much to do of the good ones (as adapted for his purpose) with the greater number of matrimonial al- ought to be his first and principal object.* liances to allow physiological considerations A belief exists with some, founded, it is much jurisdiction, said, both on common observation and scien- From the different facts now touched upon, tific research, that frequent breeding in the it is obvious that the original type of the parents same family, or what is commonly called modifies that of their offspring; while, in gene- breeding in and in, has the effect of deterior- ral, varieties accidentally acquired do not pass ating a race. There appears, however, much in hereditary descent, unless they are of such a reason to believe that the opinion just now nature as to constitute a permanently distinct stated is founded in error. In a state of nature race or variety. it not unfrequently happens, among those ani- In the mixture of different races of the human mals especially which do not pair, that the species and of distinct species of animals we strongest males take precedence of the weaker, recognise a constant tendency in succeeding and naturally select the finest females (as generations to return to the original type or pure occurs in the deer); but in a state of domes- breed; an effect which seems to proceed natu- ticily this cannot always be the case, and rally from the general law already announced, inferior animals coming together give rise to that the purer the breed of either of the parents, inferior offspring; but, if in the farm-yard or in other words, the more nearly it approaches sufficient care be taken in the selection of the the original type or unmixed race, the more breeding males and females, it does not appear readily will its qualities descend to the off- that near relationship has any effect in dete- spring . When the mixed offspring of the black riorating the race, nor in impeding the trans- and white races of men unites with either the mission of good qualities which may be found black or the white, the offspring in successive in males and females of the same family. generations becomes more and more nearly The belief now alluded to has been held in allied to the pure breed with which the cross is relation to the human species also, and it is made, and at last wholly identified with it. affirmed that both the bodily and mental qua- We must look upon this general law of the lities of the offspring suffer gradual and pro- tendency of all mixed varieties to return to the gressive injury from the continued mixture of original type,together with the circumstance that successive generations of the same family or a hybrids rarely breed as means adopted by na- small number of families. Hence we find ture for the preservation of distinct species, that the marriage of cousins-german, which The transmission of hereditary resemblance, is according to law in this country, is repro- either as regards the general structure of the bated as prejudicial by some; and various body or peculiarities, is not, however, invan- royal families and aristocratic families are re- able, nor always immediate from parents to off- ferred to as examples of the bad effect of spring. Thus parents with certain deformities the restriction of conjugal union to a narrow may produce all their children naturally formed circle. and healthy; or some of them only (in one It must be remembered, however, that the case the males, in a second the females, in a mutual selection of the parents is not quite the third some of both sexes) may inherit the ab- same in the human species as among the lower normal peculiarity, while the rest of the chil- animals ; and in the examples just referred to dren are healthy. But these healthy children, we feel even inclined to doubt whether, when from some disposition of their constitution, may due allowance is made for the nature of their transmit to their descendants either in the first education, it will be found that kings or or in a subsequent generation the defect which princes have become worse or less talented existed in their parents. The varieties in this re- in modern than in ancient times, or whether spect in the human species are almost infinite, among that class there is, on an average, a Thus,in one family all the children resembleone greater proportion of stupid men than in other parent in a striking manner; in another the ranks of society. male children take after the father chiefly, the The regularity of feature and beauty of the females after the mother ; and in a third the Persian race has been greatly improved by converse holds, the peculiarities of the father their choice of the most beautiful Circassian descending principally to daughters, those of and Georgian wives; and there are many the mother to sons,-—an arrangement of family examples of particular families in this country resemblance which is the most commonly pre- in which regular and handsome features and a valent according to M. Girou, who endeavours well-knit and fully developed form of body to shew that family resemblance frequently are hereditary. We shall not pursue the at- passes in an alternating manner from grand- tempt, however, which some have made to parent to grandchild. Thus, the grandchild apply the principles of cattle-breeding to the resembles the grandparent of the same sex, so human species ; for however desirable and that a boy whose father is like his (the father's) necessary an improvement of the breed may mother resembles most the grandfather, as in appear to some Utopian philanthropists, we the following plan. ^st Generation. Grand/. Grandm. Grand/. Gramlm. 2d ditto | Father Mother | 3d ditto Son Daughter Son Daiifrh. If it should be proved that a first or earlier 2 I * We refer the reader to the Farmer's Series of the Library of Useful Knowledge. Vols. Horse and Cattle. vol. ir.