GLAND. 482 mity which, with the aid of Comparative Ana- tomy, has been so satisfactorily demonstrated in the development of the nervous and osseous systems, is equally evinced in the glands ; for whatever diversities may be presented in their form and appearances—whatever varieties may be remarked in the internal disposition of their component parts, as in contrasting a simple follicle with a conglomerate gland, or the tubu- lar biliferous organs of insects with the appa- rently solid liver of the Mammalia; whether, in short, they appear solid, cellular, or tubular, every glandular organ is nothing else than a modification of a simple closed sac. This im- portant truth is distinctly announced by Meckel in the following passage. " The most simple mucous glands, which are only simple sacs, present the type of the glandular formation. If we picture to ourselves this sac as being pro- longed and ramified, and interlacing its branches between those of the bloodvessels, we shall at length arrive at the most compound gland, without there ever being a direct communica- tion between the bloodvessels and the excretory ducts." * We have here briefly but clearly ex- pressed the great principle, in obedience to which the various glands are developed; but that which Meckel only figuratively expressed, has since been realized in all its bearings and intricate details, by the extensive and laborious researches of several distinguished anatomists, and especially by Professor Miiller of Berlin. As it would be in vain to attempt to demon- strate the essential characters of the glandular formation, and to prove the uniformity which pervades the whole system, by selecting, as has been generally done, the most intricate organs ; I propose, in the first place, to describe the most simple form of gland, and, seizing this as a clue, to trace its gradual development through- out the whole series of glandular organs, so as to convey a general, but, it is hoped, compre- hensive account of this interesting branch of anatomy. With this object in view, the simple follicles of the skin and mucous membrane may be ad- vantageously selected ; because by tracing the successive development of these bodies, the gradual transformation of a simple sac into a tube, a ramified canal, and even a conglome- rate gland, may be very distinctly demonstrated. In fishes, whose aquatic mode of life renders an abundant defensive secretion necessary, the cutaneous follicles are more developed than in other animals, and constitute tubes or canals, which being carefully examined are found to end in ccecal extremities. A similar formation is seen in the bulbus glandulosus of most birds, where the mucous crypts are prolonged into short tubuli (fig. 209) ; whilst in the Ostrich (Struthio camelus) the follicles present an ap- pearance of cells. (Fig. 209, b). In some Amphibia, Salamandra maculuta for example, the glands of the external integument being very much developed, it is seen that each of * Man. d'An. i. p. 515. Beclard has a similar comparison : " it is true that a gland, like a folli- cle, consists of a canal closed at the extremity." Anat. Gen. p. 424. Fig. 209. a. Conglomerate folli- cular gland, Struthio rhea ; c. same, Meleagris; d. same, Anser ;* the upper drawing shows the cylin- drical follicles in a young falcon. Fig. 210. those bodies is com- posed of a small flask- shaped pouch of the skin, which at one ex- tremity becoming en- larged into a base, there terminates in a. blindsac; whilst at the other end being con- tracted, it opens by a short neck on the ex- ternal surface. (See fig. 210*.) A micro- scopical view of the coecal canals in the simpler glands is ap- pended. (See$g.2ll.) Fig. 211. Flask-shaped cutaneous The simple sacs and follicle or gland magni- tuDes just described are Jied—\W.i yery often couected t0ge. ther, giviug rise to aggregate or compound folli- cles, the arrangement and degree of complexity of which are very various. In some instances these sacs unite so as to form a gland witha single orifice or excretory duct, of which the Meibo- mian glands of the eye-lids are an example ; or again, the aggregate follicles may themselves be joined together with various degrees of compli- cation, in the form of a cluster, from which several excretory ducts proceed, as in the cu- runcula lachrymalis, the labial, buccal, and other mucous glands of the mouth, the tonsils, &c. In all these instances there is nothing but an evolution of the original sac, so that in the same manner as this is formed from the mucous membrane or skin, are the tubes and canals prolonged from the third pouch, by which con- trivance the surface subservient to secretion is, within a given space, greatly increased. The conversion of a sac or tube into a granular mass is also in this manner rendered very apparent; and thus it is easy to understand how a rami- fied canal may produce the apparently solid * Home, Lect. on Comp. An. ii. tab. 46. t Berres.