407 ORGANS OF GENERATION. 2nd. Gemmiparous, in which the young sprout as it were from the substance of the parent. 3rd. Oviparous, producing their offspring from ova or germs developed in special organs adapted to their formation. Of these modes of reproduction the two first are confined to the lowest or acrite division of the animal kingdom, whilst the third or ovipa- r?Uo type is common to all other classes. Fissiparous generation is the simplest possi- ble, and presupposes a corresponding simpli- city of structure in the animals which propa- gate in this manner. It is principally confined to the Polygastric animalcules, most of which are multiplied by the spontaneous separation of an individual into two portions precisely resem- bling each other, and capable of performing all the functions which originally belonged to the undivided creature. Some of the larger species of Trichoda are well calculated to exhibit to the microscopic observer the steps by which this process is accomplished : the animalcule, prior to its division, is seen to become slightly elongated, and a tiansparent line is gradually distinguishable, indicating the course of the in- tended fissure ; at each extremity of this line a contraction of the body is speedily observable, and the lateral indentations become deeper and deeper, till at length a perfect separation is effected. The direction in which this divi- sion occurs is not always the same even in the same species; thus, instead of traversing the shorter axis of the body it not unfrequently assumes a longitudinal or oblique direction, and from this cause it is not unusual to find the newly divided creatures differing materially in appearance from their adult or rather conjoined form ; for in this process the old animalcules literally become converted into young ones. In some of the more complex forms of Poly- gastrica the fissiparous mode of generation exhi- bits modifications which are extremely curious. In the beautiful Vorticella, whose bell-shaped bodies are supported on long and exquisitely irritable stems, the division commences at the large ciliated extremity of the animalcule, from which point it gradually extends in a longitudi- nal direction towards the insertion of the stem, dividing the body into two equal portions, one or both of which becoming speedily detached from the pedicle, might easily in this state be mistaken for creatures of a different genus, and have in fact been described as such by many authors. The new animalcule, when thus deprived of its pedicle, is seen to be fur- nished with cilia at the opposite extremity to that on which they were previously found, while from the other end, originally the mouth, a new foot-stalk becomes gradually developed, and the creature assumes the shape proper to its species. If one of the bells remain attached to the pedi- cle, it continues to perform the same movements as before the separation of the new animalcule ; but if both become detached, the foot-stalk perishes. In the strangely compound symmetrical bo- dies of Gonium a provision for separation appears to be made in the detached portions of which each perfect animal is apparently com- posed. The body of Gonium pectorale con- sists of sixteen minute transparent globes of unequal size, arranged in the same plane. This beautiful animalcule is propagated by a separation of its integrant spherules, the creature dividing into four portions precisely similar to each other, and composed individually of one of the central globules united to three of the smaller marginal ones ; and no sooner is the division accomplished than the component globes of each portion increasing in number, the new animalcules assume the dimensions and appearance of that of which they originally formed parts. In the Gonium pulvinatum the fissiparous mode of generation gives origin to a still more numerous progeny. The young animalcule is a minute, flat, diaphanous and quadrangular membrane, which swims through the fluid in which it is found by movements sufficiently in- dicative of its animal nature : as it enlarges, the surface is seen to become marked by two series of parallel lines which cross each other at right an- gles and divide the creature into smaller squares, which ultimately separate and become distinct representations of the original animalcule. Some of the Nematoid worms, as the Nais, are likewise said to propagate by spontaneous division. Gemmiparous generation.—This mode of re- production, like the fissiparous, is confined to the lowest tribes of animal existence, and the creatures which propagate in this manner are unprovided with any apparatus specially appro- priated to generation. The young appear as gemmae or buds, which at certain periods sprout from the homogeneous parenchyma which com- poses the body of the parent, and these buds gra- dually assuming the form of the original by a kind of vegetative growth, become in a short time capable of an independent existence. The gemmiparous type of the generative function is met with through a wider range of the animal kingdom than the last, existing under modified forms in many species of Polygastric Infusoria, and of Polyps, as well as in Sponges, the Cys- tiform Entozoa, and probably in some Acale- phae. It is in the Cystoid Entozoa that we find it in its simplest form. In the Cysticercus and like- wise in the Ccenurus, the transparent membra- nous bag of which the animal consists is filled with a glairy fluid, in which occasionally young hydatids are seen floating about. These young Cysticerci in the earliest period of their forma- tion are seen to pullulate from the parietes of the parent sac, and gradually enlarging they ultimately separate from their connexions, be- coming detached and perfect animals. Many of the Polygastrica are multiplied by a similar process, of which the Volvox globator may serve as an illustration. This beautiful ani- malcule is a minute diaphanous globe, which under the microscope is generally seen to con- tain a variable number of smaller globules, which are the young : these, when first discoverable, are .attached to the inner surface of the parent, but speedily detaching themselves they are