GASTEROPODA, 389 of the pylorus. A similar disposition in Vaginulus (fig. 189, /, h'). Fig. 189. In Scyllea the liver (fig. 187, d) is divided into six small and detached round masses, the excretory ducts of which open above the point where the oesophagus joins the singularly armed gizzard (c). The liver of Aplyslu is very large and forms three principal masses, among which are seen the convolutions of the intestine. The biliary canals are very wide and open into the third stomach near the aperture communicating with the rudimentary pancreas (fig. 188, e). In Testacella Haliotoidea there are two livers perfectly distinct from each other, and from each arises a proper duct, which opens sepa- rately into the commencement of the intestine near its origin. Onchidium furnishes us with a still more curious arrangement, being pro- vided with three distinct livers, pouring their secretions by separate canals into different parts of the alimentary tube. Each portion perfectly resembles the others in external appearance, and in structure as well as in the nature of their respective secretions. The excretory canal which proceeds from the largest mass enters the oesophagus, discharging itself near to its cardiac termination; the duct of the second terminates near the same point, whilst the bile produced by the third is poured into the gizzard itself. The insertion of the two former above the gizzard would seem intended for the same purpose as the abundant secretion which is poured into the ventriculus succenturiatus of Birds, namely, to moisten the food before its in- troduction into the gizzard ; it is, however, sin- gular to find the biliary fluid employed for this purpose ; nor is the insertion of the third duct into the first of the three stomachs of this animal less extraordinary, a similar arrangement occur- ring only in a few fishes, as in the Diodon Mala. The liver of Doris is very large, and not only is the bile which it secretes discharged by large and numerous ducts into the stomach, so wide, indeed, that it is difficult to conceive how the food is prevented from entering them, but moreover the liver furnishes a second duct of large calibre, which opens externally in the vicinity of the anus. A part of the bile in this case is evidently excrementitious, as there is no doubt that the second canal takes its origin from the substance of the liver. " This," says Cuvier speaking upon this subject, " is the first instance of the kind which I have met with, and the fact was sufficiently singular to make me hesitate long and examine the matter with all possible precaution before admitting it. It is only by one supposition that it can be explained otherwise,—namely, that the lobes of two different glands are so interwoven that they are not to be distinguished from each other, one portion producing bile used in the process of digestion, and the other secreting a fluid which escapes by the canal in question." Before its termination externally, the secondary duct communicates by a short canal with a lateral receptacle, which forms a kind of gall- bladder, having its lining membrane much corrugated and its walls apparently muscular ; this is probably a reservoir for the excremen- titious fluid, in which it may be retained until the animal feels its discharge necessary. There is reason to suspect that the fluid thus furnished is a colouring matter, used as a means of de- fence, and expelled like the ink of the cuttle-fish on the approach of danger, but the matter is undecided. The bile is in all cases produced from arte- rial blood, and the liver is provided with but one system of veins answering to the hepatic. Organs of respiration.—The respiratory or- gans of the Gasteropoda are found to be con- structed upon very various principles, adapted to the medium which they inhabit, or the pecu- liar exigencies of the individuals composing each order. Nevertheless in different groups allied by the generalities of their organization, the respiratory system is, in most instances, found to be constructed upon the same plan, and this circumstance more than any other has rendered the position and nature of the respira- tory organs the most eligible basis of classifica- tion. On looking over the table which we have given at the commencement of this ar- ticle, the reader will perceive at once that the names by which the different orders are desig- nated indicate the general disposition of the pulmonary or branchial appendages, and we shall therefore follow the arrangement there adopted in considering more minutely the pe- culiarities belonging to each. The first or Nudibranchiate order is distin- guished by having the breathing apparatus per- fectly exposed to the influence of the surround- ing medium, which in all the genera belonging to this division is the water of the ocean ; the branchiae constantly assume the shape of arbo- rescent tufts, placed in different situations upon the dorsal aspect of the animal. In Doris (see