539 ORGAN OF HEARING. or endolymph or vitreous humour (if' the ear. (Aquula labyrinthi membranacei. Humor vitreus auris. Fr. Vitrine auditive. Germ. Wasser des hdutigen Labyrinths. Die Glasf'euchtigkeit des Ohres.—This humour, first distinctly pointed out by Scarpa, fills exactly all the cavities of the membrane- ous labyrinth,—that is to say, in the human ear, the common sinus, ampullae, the semi- circular tubes, and saccule. Like the peri- lymph, it is almost as limpid as water. In the endolymph there are, as has been said, always found suspended calcareous concre- tions. The endolymph is in birds as limpid as in the Mammifera; but in reptiles it is in general more dense than water and a little viscid. It is viscid in all fishes, but especially so in the Chondropterygenous, in which it often presents itself in the form of jelly. It is also very decidedly viscid in the Cephalopodous Mollusca. The masses of calcareous matter contained within the membraneous labyrinth. —In the ear- bulb of all animals which possess one, there are found small masses of a chalky nature; in some solid, in others pulverulent. Solid concretions are found in the osseous fishes, and in the Chondropterygenous fishes with free gills, such as the sturgeon. The chalky mat- ter is in a pulverulent state in Mammifera, birds, reptiles, and in Chondropterygenous fishes with fixed gills. In the Batrachian rep- tiles and Cephalopodous Mollusca, the cal- careous matter appears rather under a concrete form. These calcareous masses are best known in osseous fishes, in which they are hard but brittle bodies of a determinate shape. In those animals, indeed, they have been erro- neously considered as analogous to the tym- panic ossicles of the higher V'ertebrata. MM. Breschet* and Huschkef have lately called particular attention to the subject, and have described masses of calcareous matter in the ear of reptiles, birds, and Mammifera. Scarpa and Comparetti had observed them in the human ear, without, however, detecting their nature. But they had been unequivocally noticed before by De Blainville ; % and pre- viously to the first publication of Breschet's papers on the ear in the Annates des Sciences Maturelles, I had also studied them throughout the animal series. Breschet has proposed for the solid masses the name of otolithi, from ovs, auris, and AiGo?, lapis; and for the pulverulent ones that of otoconia, from ot;;, and xon;, pulvis. Otoconia has been translated into German by Lincke § Ohrsand. Huschke calls the pulverulent matter * Lib. cit. t Isis, 1834. Heft. 1. p. 107. 1833. Heft. vii. p. 676. \ De l'Organization des Animauxou Principes d'Anatomie comparee, torn. i. p. 451-458. Paris, 1822. Also, Cours ile Physiologie generale et com- paree, &c. Paris, 1829. xii Lecon. p. 399. § Das Gehororgan, &c. s. 176. p. 203. Leipzic. 1837. V h ear-crystals, Ohrkrystalle. Krause, ear-chalk, Ohrkalk. In the ear of man and the Mammifera in general there are two masses of calcareous matter; one in the common sinus and the other in the saccule. According to Huschke and Barruel they are composed of mucus, carbonate and phosphate of lime, and some animal matter. They are said to be more dis- tinct in the foetus than in the adult. From my own observations I should say that they exist in the human adult as distinctly as in the fcetus. Concretions are never found in the ampulla; or semicircular canals, either in man or any of the lower animals. Examined in man and the Mammifera the concretions are suspended in the endolymph, and correspond to the points of the common sinus and saccule where the nervous filaments are implanted. The grains composing the calcareous mass are held together by a soft mucous tissue. Huschke describes the grains as crystalline, small six-sided columns, pointed at the ends with three surfaces. They appear to me, under the microscope, to have an oval form, more or less elongated, in man and the mammifera, passing into a spindle shape in birds and rep- tiles, and, though transparent, they do not pre- sent any very decided crystalline form. The particles of chalk examined through the micro- scope have a somewhat similar appearance, but much smaller. The grains of the ear are of different sizes. Of a mass which I removed from the ear of a middle-aged man, the greatest number had their longest diameter equal to that of the globules of the human blood, that is, about the three-thousandth part of an inch. There is found in the cochlea of birds a mass of calcareous matter. Breschet says he has found, in cochleae of the human fcetus, which had been dried but not macerated, small masses of cretaceous matter deposited near the summit of the cochlea; and Huschke* once found, in the fluid of the cochlea of a child, a collection of microscopical crystals. Cruveilhier* asks, do the small masses of cretaceous matter, found in the ear of man and the mammifera, fulfil the same function as the stones in the ear of fishes ? or must they be considered as a remains only of a part import- ant in other animals ? Breschet says, " the otolithes and otoconies have, for their use, to communicate to the nervous extremities a more vivid and energetic impression than a simple liquid like the endolymph could do; for the vibrations of a solid body are much more sen- sible for their force and degree of intensity than those of a liquid body." However this may be, it appears that the development of these con- cretions coincides, in some degree, with the medium inhabited by the animal; thus, they are stony in most animals living in water, and pulverulent in such as exist in air. The auditory or acoustic nerve.—Nervus au- * Loc. cit. t Anatomie descriptive, tome iii. p. 524.