HYPEREMIA AND ANEMIA. 825 is preserved in the museum of the hospital. Fig. 328. Fig. 328. Dislocation downwards and backwards. B, obturator internus; C, trochanter major; D, the acetabulum; E, obturator externus; V, sciatic nerve; I, shaft of the femur. " A maniac who eluded the vigilance of his keepers, leaped from a third story window. Besides dislocating his thigh, he received other injuries, of which he died in about an hour. " On examining the dislocated limb, it was found considerably shortened and inverted, forming about half a right angle with the body, the shaft of the femur crossing the symphysis pubis was fixed immoveably in this situation; as the patient was sinking, no attempt was made at reduction. " Twelve hours after the death of the patient I commenced the dissection, by reflecting the gluteus maximus, when I found some of the fibres of the glutoeus medius and minimus rup- tured at their posterior edge. The pyriformis and gemelli were also partially torn, but those portions of the tendon of the obturator internus which pass through the lesser ischiatic notch were drawn out, and separated from their con- nexion with the muscular fibres ; the head of the femur presented itself through a rent of the capsule, opposite to the upper part of the tuber ischii above the quadratus, so that the great sciatic nerve was somewhat displaced and pressed against the tuber ischii. " In this case there was no difficulty in de- tecting the nature of the injury, as, besides the symptoms already described, the head of the femur could be felt resting on the tuber ischii, covered by the outer edge of the gluteus maxi- mus. " If this patient had been in a condition to attempt reduction of the dislocation by fixing the pelvis, and employing extension in the direction of the shaft of the bone, at the same time everting the limb, the head of the femur would have been brought opposite the rent in the capsule, and would have been in all pro- bability replaced in the acetabulum without greater difficulty than is usually experienced." ( Robert Adams.) HYPEREMIA and ANiEMlA, (v^, super; a,, negative; and onyLoc, sanguis) (in morbid anatomy). These are terms employed to denote opposite conditions of the various membranous or parenchymatous textures of the body as regards the quantity of blood contained in their bloodvessels; the former, as its deriva- tion denotes, indicating a superabundant sup- ply of blood, the latter a deficiency of that fluid. They are useful terms to the anatomist, inasmuch as they express simply the state of a texture, without any theory being involved respecting the cause or origin of that state. It ought always to be the first business of the anatomist to observe carefully the actual con- dition of the parts submitted to his examination; this having been done, he should search dili- gently for some cause, mechanical, chemical, or vital, which will satisfactorily account for the phenomena. All vascular textures, it is obvious, are liable to these conditions; and it is equally evident that the relative frequency of their occurrence in different textures will coincide with the natural facility of the flow of blood to or from them, as well as the quantity of blood con- tained in them in the normal state. Thus the lung or the spleen is favourable for the forma- tion of hyperemia, as well from the large supply of blood in each as from the free com- munication between their respective arterial and venous systems, and between the ramifications of vessels of the same kind. A bleached slate of the same organs may be taken as a good example of the opposite con- dition, or anaemia; but the most complete anosmia is, of course, to be found in organs or tissues which, in the natural state, contain but a small quantity of blood. It is important to notice that hyperemia may occur independently of disease and altogether as a cadaveric phenomenon, and there is no mistake more frequently committed by the incautious observer than that of attributing to the influence of a morbid process during life appearances which simply result from the ordinary physical laws which death has allowed to exert full sway over the tissues. Indeed, it is only since anatomists have ceased to regard every instance of an unduly injected tissue as a diseased one, that valuable practical conclu- sions have been drawn from post-mortem obser- vations. We may pronounce hyperemia not to be mor- bid, when it is found to occupy only the most dependent parts of organs, the blood having deserted the vessels of the more elevated parts. At every post-mcrtem examination we have abundant examples of hyperemia of this kind ; if the body have been laid on the back, as is usually the case, the whole of the skin of that region is largely injected with blood ; the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue is in a similar condi- tion, and the adjacent muscles more or less so