346 BONES OF THE FOOT. highest bone of the tarsus; from this bone, again, the weight is transmitted to the os calcis in the backward direction, and to the anterior row of tarsal bones in front, where the transverse extent of the tarsus is consider- ably increased, in order to enlarge the basis of support. It is worthy of remark that the solidity of the anterior part of the tarsus is less on its inner than on its outer side, the effect of which is to increase the elasticity of the former part without materially diminishing its strength. The object of this arrangement appears to be ex- plained by the observation that the weight of the body is transmitted by the astragalus principally to the inner side of the tarsus. It is toward the inner side also that the concavity of the under surface of the tarsus is most evident, by which not only can the sole of the foot adapt itself to the irregularities of surface to which ,it is applied, but it is enabled to yield under the superincumbent weight, and so to counteract the effects of sudden concussion in walking, leaping, &c. In the foot anatomists have described two arches as connected with its mechanical arrange- ments. The first is best seen in a profile view of the foot; it is termed the antero-posteripr arch ; upon this arch we rest when the toes are applied to the ground, the posterior extremity of it being the heel, the anterior the balls of the toes, and the astragalus resembling the key- stone of the arch. The second is the transverse arch, which may be most satisfactorily demon- strated by a transverse section made along the line of the cuneiform bones. The effect of the constant and violent exercises of the foot to which public dancers are accustomed is to in- crease the mobility of the different parts of the foot, to an extent which unfits it, in a great measure, for its office as an instrument of sup- port in standing or walking, as may be ob- served, says Sir C. Bell, in any of the retired dancers and old figurantes. By standing so much on the toes, he adds, the human foot is converted to something more resembling that of a quadruped, where the heel never reaches the ground, and where the paw is nothing more than the phalanges of the toes. The following considerations connected with the human foot may be quoted as so many in- dications that the erect attitude is natural to man: 1. the articulation of the foot at right angles with the leg; 2. the great comparative size of the foot, contrasted with that of other animals; 3- the great transverse extent of the foot; 4. the predominance of its solid parts, the tarsus and metatarsus, over its moveable part, the phalanges ; 5. the direction of the me- tatarsal bone supporting the great toe; its situa- tion and want of mobility; 6. the limited mo- bility of the phalanges of the foot as compared with those of the fingers; 7. the horizontal po- sition of the os calcis ;* the excess of its trans- * " Even the Simiae and the bear," says Mr. Lawrence, " have the end of the os calcis raised, so that this bone begins to form an acute angle with the leg; the dog, the cat, and other digitated quadrupeds, even the elephant himself, do not rest on the tarsus or carpus, but merely on the toes ; verse extent at its posterior over that of its an- terior part, and the developement of its tuber- cles ; 8. the great strength and developement of the calcaneo-cuboid ligament; 9. the early ossification of the bones of the foot as compared with those of the hand. The extraordinary extent to which art can modify the positions of the several bones, and the form of the whole foot, is remarkably ex- emplified in the case of the Chinese foot. It is well known that, among other barbarities practised on Chinese females, their feet are from an early period subjected to the most violent pressure, with the view of reducing them to that diminutive size which is esteemed a point of great beauty. Hence the anatomical examination of a foot thus compressed is a point of great interest, not alone to the physio- logist, but also to the surgeon, as indicating what properly applied force may do when em- ployed at a sufficiently early period. An inte- resting account of such an examination was communicated in the year 1829 to the Royal Society by Mr. Bransby Cooper, from whose paper we extract the following statements. The foot at first view had the appearance of being congenitally deformed; it was remarka- bly short; from the heel to the great toe its measurement did not exceed five inches; it was very much contracted in its transverse dimen- sions, and the instep extremely high, being un- usually convex not only from before backwards, but also from side to side. " The position of the os calcis," to use Mr. B. Cooper's words, " is very remarkably altered: instead of the posterior projection which usually forms the heel, a straight line is preserved in this direction, not deviating from the line of the tibia; and the projecting point which forms in an ordinary foot the most posterior process into which the tendo Achillis is inserted, touches the ground, and becomes the point d'appui for sustaining the whole weight of the body. The articular surface of the os calcis in connexion with the cuboid bone is about half an inch an- terior to and two inches above this point; while the astragalar joint is behind and some- what below the calco-cuboidal articulation; consequently the direction of the os calcis, (in its long axis,) instead of being from behind for- wards, is from below upwards, with the slightest possible inclination forwards. The most pro- minent parts of the instep are the round head of the astragalus and the cuboidal articulation of the os calcis. From this the remaining tarsal bones slope downwards at nearly a right- angular inclination to join the metatarsal bones, whose obliquity is still downwards, until they rest on their phalangeal extremities." The points of support are the os calcis, the anterior extremity of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and the dorsal surface of the fourth and fifth toes, which are bent under the foot so as to press the ground at this part. (R. B. Todd.) the cloven-hoofed ruminants and the Solipeda touch the ground merely with the extremities of the third phalanges, and the os calcis is raised nearly into a perpendicular position."