EYE. 183 the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. " In order to obtain a correct view of the posterior surface of the iris, a transverse vertical section of the eye should be made at the distance of about an eighth of an inch behind the cornea, and the lens, and portion of vitreous humour attached to it, removed : the iris now appears covered by a thick layer of black pigment, marked by a number of converging lines; these lines on close inspection are found to be channels or hollows, as if resulting from a puckering or folding of the membrane. The pigment is secured from being detached, and diffused in the aqueous humour, by a fine transparent membrane, which is closely attached to the margin of the pupil, from whence it is continued over the back of the iris, and anterior extremities of the ciliary processes, to the cir- cumference of the lens, over the front of the • capsule of which it is also probably extended, if it be, as may be supposed, the membrane of the aqueous humour. This delicate membrane may be turned down by the point of a needle ; as it is connected to the iris by loose cellular structure only, in the interstices of which the black pigment is deposited. It is at first black, but by gentle agitation in water the colouring matter is removed, and the membrane remains transparent. When the membrane and pig- ment have been removed, the back of the iris appears free from colour, and marked by a number of delicate elevated folds, converging from the ciliary processes to within a short distance of the pupil; they are permanent and essential, and seem of the same nature as the ciliary processes. The pupil is immediately surrounded by a well-defined distinct circle, about the twentieth part of an inch in diameter, of a denser structure than the rest of the iris : this is what has been long described as the orbicular muscle, or constrictor of the pupil. If the iris be treated, as I before mentioned, by maceration and extension, this appearance still preserves its integrity, and retains its original character." Haller and Zinn describe these converging radiating folds, but the former de- nies the existence of the circular arrangement round the margin of the pupil, of the presence of which I do not entertain the slightest doubt, but which is sometimes so slightly marked, that I am not surprized to find its existence doubted if the part has not been examined in a variety of examples. This circle, or orbicular muscle, is sometimes equally visible on the anterior surface, but is generally obscured by the converging cords above described. The folds or elevations on the back of the iris, con- verging toward the pupil, have been considered the muscular agents for dilating the pupil, but if examined in the eyes of the larger quadru- peds, it is obvious that they are destined to give this part of the organ the requisite degree of opacity, and to afford an appropriate place for the deposit of the black pigment, in this res- pect closely resembling the ciliary processes, and the pecten in the eye of birds, so much so, that I think they might be appropriately called the ciliary processes of the iris. The iris is most plentifully supplied with bloodvessels and nerves. The two long ciliary arteries which penetrate the sclerotic posteri- orly advance horizontally, about the middle of the eyeball, between that membrane and the choriod, to the iris, where each divides into two branches, which proceed round the circumfer- ence and inosculate with each other, thus form- ing an arterial circle, from which numberless branches converge to the pupil. Much impor- tance has been attached by anatomists to the manner in which these radiating vessels are disposed, in consequence of the representation of Ruysch, who exhibited them as forming a series of inosculations at a short distance from the pupil, since called the lesser circle of the iris. I do not deny that the vessels of the iris inosculate as in other parts of the body, but I do not believe that they present this very re- markable appearance, and I suspect that Ruysch exaggerated what he had seen, or de- scribed from an iris in which the injection had been extravasated and entangled in the tendi- nous cords, which I have described as extend- ing from the fleshy bodies to the margin of the pupil. The question is fortunately of no importance. It is sufficient to know that the organ is amply supplied with arterial blood. The iris is plentifully furnished with nerves : they are derived from the third and fifth pairs, with communications from the sym- pathetic, and consequently having connexions with the sixjth. They penetrate the sclerotic posteriorly, and advance towards the iris be- tween the sclerotic and choroid, about fifteen or twenty in number: arrived at the ciliary ligament, they divide at acute angles, and may be traced through this structure until they are finally lost in the iris, as seen in the annexed figure. Fig. 108. From the foregoing description, it appears that the iris is eminently distinguished for the perfection of its organization ; and endowed as it is with the power of enlarging or diminishing the aperture in its centre, there can be little doubt that it is a beautiful application of mus- cular structure and function to the perfection of this most elaborately constructed organ. The authority of Haller operates to the pre- sent day to throw a doubt upon the muscula- rity of the iris; but Haller, strange as it may appear, was not correctly informed in many particulars respecting this structure. He de- nies the existence of the orbicular muscle; he doubts the irritability of the organ, and he even