735 HERMAPHRODITISM. dence, there is every reason to believe, with a slight predominance in size in the hemispheres of the encephalon of the same side. In ad- ducing these two cases we do not wish to draw any inference with regard to the relation of causation between the size and development of the encephalic mass and the determination of the sex, but would merely point out the facts themselves in the meantime, for the purpose of drawing attention to the subject in the observa- tion of any future similar instances that may happen to occur. In connection with the question of the causes of hermaphroditism, it is interesting to remark that in some instances malformations of the genital organs giving rise to appearances of her- maphroditism have been observed both to be hereditary in particular families, and in other cases to occur among several of the children of the same parents. Thus Heuremann* mentions an example of a family the females of which had for several generations given birth to males who were all affected with hypospadias ; and Lecatf alleges that a degree of hypospadias is not uncommon among families in Nor- mandy. In Rust's Magazine an instance is related of a degree of hypospadias existing in a father and son.] Baum,§ in his essay on con- genital fissures of the urethra, has referred to two instances of the existence of hypospadias in brothers of the same family, the first men- tioned by Walreeht,|| and the second by Gockel.1l Sir Everard Home** found two cases of hypospadias in two children belonging to the same parents. Kauw Boerhaaveff men- tions an example of four hvpospadiac brothers, and Lepechin another instance of three.]:! Naegele has reported a case in which two male twins were both hypospadic,§§ and Katsky |||| and SaviardUK have mentioned similar in- stances. We have already, when treating of transverse hermaphroditism, alluded to another fact long and extensively known among our agriculturists, but first prominently brought before the notice of physiologists by Mr. Hunter, that the free- martin cow, or the cow that is born a co-twin with a male, is generally barren and has its sexual organs more or less defectively developed or hermaphroditically formed.*** In three dif- * Medicin. Beobaclit. Bd. ii. s. 234, and Laroche sur les Monstrnsites de la Face, p. 30. t Armaud, 1. c. p. 312. % Magazin fuer die Gesammte Heilkundc, Bd. xviii. s. 113. § De fissuris urethra? virilis fissuris congenitis, p. 54. || Burdach's Metamorphose des Geschlechter, p. 52. f Eph. Nat. Cur. Dec. ii. Ann. 5. (1686), p. 85. ** Comp. Anat. iii. p. 320. tt Nov, Com. Acad. Sc. Petropolit. t. i. p. 61. tab. xi. It Ibid. t. xvi. p. 525. i§ Meckel's Archiv. Bd. v. s. 136. |f|| Acta M. Berol. Dec. 1, torn, ix, p. 61. ff Observ. Chirurg. p. 284. *** From the Romans employing the female noun taura to signify a barren cow, it has been ingeni- ously conjectured that they w re not unacquainted with the free-martin. Thus Columella de Re Rus- ferent instances Mr. Hunter confirmed the fact of the anomalous sexual development of such animals by dissection; and Scarpa* and Gurltf have published some additional ob- servations and cases. We have lately had an opportunity of dissecting the sexual parts of two adult free-martins, and found them, as already detailed, formed after an abnormal and imperfect sexual type; and our friend Dr. Allen Thomson made some years ago a similar observation upon a free-martin twin fcetal calf. Cases, however, exceptional to the general fact of the sterility and imperfect sexual conforma- tion of the free-martin twin cow are not unfre- quently met with. Mr. Hunter found the sexual organs of a free-martin calf that died when about a month old apparently naturally constituted. He speaks also of having heard of some free-martins that were so perfectly formed in their sexual parts as to be capable of breeding; and different instances of their fe- cundity have been published by Dr. Moulson and others]; since the time that Mr. Hunter directed attention to this subject. In some pretty extensive inquiries which we have made in regard to this point among the agriculturists of the Lothians, we have learned only of two instances in which free-martins proved capable of propagating, and such cases seem to be always looked upon as forming exceptions to the general rule. VVe are not aware that among other uni- parous domestic animals, as the goat, mare, &c , when a female is born a co-twin with a male, this female is sterile, and has its sexual organs hermaphroditically formed, as in the free-martin cow ; and we are sufficiently as- sured that no such law holds with regard to twins of opposite sexes among sheep. Sir Everard Home, in his essay on monstrous for- mations, § mentions that in warm countries nurses and midwives have a prejudice that such women as have been born twins with males seldom breed; and we have found the same prejudice existing to a considerable degree among the lower orders in Scotland. Mr. Cribb,|| of Cambridge, published in 1823 a short paper in order to refute this notion as far as regarded the human subject. He refers to the histories of seven women who had been born co-twins with males. Six of these had children, and the remaining seventh subject alone had been married for several years without any issue. We have ourselves made a series of extensive inquiries of the same nature tica, lib. vi. chap. 22, speaks of " tauras which occupy the place of fertile cows ;" and Varro in like manner (lib. ii cap. 5.) states that " the cow which is barren is called taura" (quae sterilis est, taura vocatur). There is no evidence, however, that they were acquainted with the particular cir- cumstances relative to birth under which free-mar- tins are produced. * Mem. della Societa Italiana, t. ii. p. 846. f Lerbuch der pathol. Anat. Bd. ii. s. 188. \ Loudon's Magazine of Natural History, vol. v. p. 765. See also Youatt on Cattle, p. 539, Farmers' Magazine for Nov. 1806 and Nov. 1807. & Comp. Anat. vol. iii. p. 333-4. || London Med. Repos. vol. xx. p. 213.