509 GLUTEAL REGION. divided m reflecting the muscle, and which which retains much of the softness and pliabi- With regard to the argument in favour of the motal properties of this nerve, drawn by Muller from its anatomy, it appears to me that this analogical mode of investigation, valuable though it is, must be permitted to yield to the more positive observations obtained from expe- riment. And though it may be granted that the apparent limitation of the ganglion jugu- lare to the posterior filaments of this nerve causes it here to resemble closely the double roots of the spinal nerves, yet we must be wary in drawing analogies between the glosso- pharyngeal and spinal nerves, since we have another ganglion situated immediately below this, viz. the ganglion petrosum, which involves the whole of the nerve, and to this assuredly we have no analogical structure in the spinal nerves. No doubt Miiller supposes that this inferior ganglion differs from those placed upon the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and that it. belongs to the sympathetic system. But as nothing like conclusive proof is advanced in support of this opinion, we may in the mean time reasonably suspend our belief as to the probable influence which this lower ganglion may exert upon the functions of the nerve. Of course the fact that some of the filaments of the glosso-pharyngeal terminate in the mus- cular fibre, is no proof that these filaments are motal, for the muscular bundles have their sen- sitive as well as their motal filaments. (John Reid.) GLUTEAL REGION, (Surgical Anatomy.) (Fr. region fessiere.) The gluta?al region may be defined with tolerable precision to be all that space external to the pelvis which is covered by the glutaei muscles of each side. Its boun- daries seem naturally to be the crista of the ilium above; behind, the mesian line as low down as the point of the coccyx ; before, a line drawn from the anterior superior spinous pro- cess of the ilium to the trochanter major; and below, a line drawn from the point of the coccyx to the insertion of the glutaeus maximus; in fact, the inferior margin of this muscle forms the boundary line. These limits, better defined than those of most of the anatomical regions, separate this tract from the lumbar and iliac regions above, from the superior anterior region of the thigh in front, from the perineal and posterior regions of the thigh below, and from the corresponding part of the opposite side at the posterior mesian line. This space, which does not comprise many points of importance in surgical anatomy, is yet not without interest. Here are the glutseal and ischiadic arteries, also the commencement of the course of the great sciatic nerve. The internal pudic artery also skirts along the inferior edge of the gluteal region, but this will be best considered as part of the region of the perineum. The first thing that strikes us in the exami- nation of this region is the great density and thickness of the integuments; they are inferior in this respect only to the sole of the foot. This density is, however, found greater pro- portionally in the true skin than in the cuticle, lity of the same covering in other parts of the body, and the end of this is evident, since whatever the pressure may be upon the gluttsal parts, a dense state of the cuticle in any degree similar to the sole of the foot would, in the varied positions and movements of the trunk, be quite incompatible with comfort. On the other hand, the true skin, though pliant, is remarkably dense and strong, its fibres almost tendinous in structure, interlacing each other in every direction, and united underneath to a strong but rather loose cellular tissue which connects it to the gluteus muscle. It is to the laxity of this cellular connexion that the inte- guments of this part are partly indebted for that pliability which enables us to rest with ease and comfort upon surfaces of various degrees of hardness and inequality. It contains a considerable quantity of fat, which adds to the softness and elasticity of this cushion, and is very different from the granular hard fat found in the plantar region. The density of the integumental covering of the gluteal region varies somewhat in different parts. It is greatest where it covers the tuber ischii, and gradually diminishes on all sides except on the side next the perineum, where the change is very abrupt from its characteristic density to the extreme thinness and delicacy of the perineal covering. The peculiarity of structure of the integument covering the glutaei should be borne in mind by the surgeon in the treatment of diseases of this part. Abscesses should on this account be earlier opened from the obstacle thus pre- sented to their pointing. It is on this account also, probably, that we so generally find abscesses here accompanied with sloughing of the cellular tissue, which is best, obviated by an early opening. The fleshy fibres of the gluteus maximus are covered by a somewhat denser stratum of cellular tissue, forming an aponeurosis distinct from the fascia lata of the thigh, though conti- nuous with it at the anterior edge of the muscle, where the fascia lata lies upon the anterior half of the glutaeus medius. The great glutaeus is composed of coarse and loosely connected fasciculi, running in a direction downwards and forwards. It commences by a somewhat semicircular line of origin from the posterior two-thirds of the crista ilii, from the side of the sacrum and of the coccyx. From this origin the fibres run somewhat converging towards the great trochanter and upper pait of the linea aspera. This direction of the fibres should be borne in mind in connexion with all remedial manipulations on this part, that the position in which the limb should be placed may be chosen most favourably for the relaxing of the muscle. The other muscles which are in this neighbourhood, and all of which move the thigh-bone, are so much smaller than this great muscle that the relaxing of this is of the first importance, and the position must be chosen with reference almost entirely to this. On reflecting the glutseus maximus the fol- lowing parts are brought into view:— 1st, several large branches of arteries and veins, which were