ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 808 his weight on the fractured limb, then it is more particularly that the power of the obtu- rator externus is called into action to restrain the ascent of the trochanter major, which is kept downwards by the obturator and by the strength of the capsular ligament, which under- goes a corresponding change of structure. The capsular ligament has been found semi-cartila- ginous, and occasionally even spiculae of bone have been found in it; we have also known it to be much elongated, so as to allow the lower fragment to ascend much on the dorsum of the ilium. We have found the capsular ligament usually entire in old cases, but occasionally the bursa, which exists in front of or under the psoas muscle, seems to have freely communi- cated with the interior of the joint. In some cases the natural thickness of the capsule is not much increased; in others it is very con- siderably so. In one of the cases alluded to by Mr. Colles, the capsular ligament was a quarter of an inch thick, in some places half an inch, and it had, at the same time, a firmness of texture which might be termed semicartila- ginous. Two or three particles of bone were found in it. The synovial membrane, where it meets the neck of the femur, has been fre- quently found lacerated in recent cases; in older, inflamed, and in older still, adhesions of the synovial structures to each other have been observed. Thus the head of the fractured femur lias been found adherent to the acetabu- lum, and we have frequently found filamentous adhesions between the synovial membrane of the neck of the bone and the interior of the synovial lining of the fibrous capsule. The synovial membrane, in the normal state, where it invests the narrowest part of the neck of the bone, is thrown into longitudinal plicae or folds; some of the lowest and most distinct of these are denominated by Weitbrecht " retinacula." We do not believe that this accurate anatomist gave this name to these fibro-synovial folds with any practical knowledge of the functions which they occasionally perform in cases of fracture; but we know very well by experience that, in recent cases of the simple intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the femur, it very fre- quently, if not generally, happens that, although the neck of the femur is broken transversely with respect to its longitudinal axis, the cylin- der of fibro-synovial membrane, which is re- flected over the neck of the bone, is sometimes left unbroken, or is only partially lacerated. The fibrous periosteum, which is here added to the synovial investment of the neck of the femur, strengthens much this part of the mem- brane, and both together, in cases of intra-cap- sular fractures, serve the purpose of keeping nearly in apposition the broken fragments; and in cases in which the greater part of this cylin- drical investment of the neck of the bone re- mains entire, or nearly so, the unbroken mem- brane and the vessels which pass along it must be the medium of vascular communication be- tween the fragments. Thephenomena whichextra-capsulnr fractures present are not unlike those which are the result of fractures elsewhere of the femur. We may remark, however, that one of the results of this lesion of the neck of the femur (as it is, in- deed, of almost all other injuries or alterations of structure of this part of the bone) is, that the posterior part of the neck of the femur is diminished one-half in its normal length; the posterior inter-trochanteric ridge of bone ap- proaches to within half an inch of the circular line which marks the junction of the head and neck of the bone. A large quantity of callus is usually thrown out in the line of the extra- capsular fracture, and the trochanter major be- comes much deformed by it, and the neck so much shortened, that there is danger of the motions of the hip-joint being interfered with. In recent cases in which intra-capsular fracture had occurred, little or no change has been ob- served worth noticing; but in old cases several phenomena of importance present themselves. 1st, In some cases we find a false articulation to have been formed; 2dly, there is union of the broken surfaces of the upper and lower fragment by means of ligamentous bands; 3dly, it is reported that complete bony union is effected, but the controversy upon this sub- ject can scarcely be said to be yet terminated. Very soon after intra-capsular fracture has occurred, the surfaces of the broken frag- ments undergo changes ; they are smoothed off by the power of the absorbents, or are mechani- cally rubbed down by the friction of the broken surfaces, or by both these processes combined. In general the neck of the femur disappears altogether, and the basis of the head of' the bone corresponds to the level of the circular brim of the acetabulum. The surfaces are ge- nerally brought into contact by the muscles, and frequently adhesions are formed between the neck of the bone and the internal surface of the capsular ligament, which, as has already been remarked, is greatly thickened ; an oily fluid, resembling natural synovia, is shed over the broken surfaces, and here are all the ele- ments of a false articulation present. The tro- chanters are, in consequence of the removal of the neck of the bone, brought near to the edge of the acetabulum, and bony growths generally shoot out from these processes and from the inter-trochanteric line posteriorly. These bony projections or vegetations sometimes rise as high as the edge of the acetabulum, and when the patient stands or walks, these bony growths rising up from the trochanter are supposed to afford a prop to the pelvis, and thus to assist somewhat the structures which perform the functions of the false articulation. It has been noticed that, in general, the removal of bone from the upper fragment extends as far as the basis of the head and the level of the circular brim of the acetabulum; but in some cases this fragment has been hollowed out. Again, in obedience to influences which we cannot ex- plain, it has happened that the lower surface of the upper fragment formed an uniform convex surface, looking downwards, and corresponded to a large excavation formed in the substance of the great trochanter. This, we find, occurred in one of Mr. Colles's cases : the lower surface of the upper fragment was convex, and covered