924 INSECTA. space, from the sides of which originate the second pair of wings (*•). It is hounded pos- teriorly by a short thick rid;je, the remains of the scutellum (4 c), the extremities of which pass outwards and are connected with the base of the wings. The post-seutellum (4 d) is also a very short fold, that forms the most posterior part of the true thorax. It is de- veloped inwards and becomes continuous with the remains of the upper portion of the fifth or thoracico-abdominal segment (5). At each side it is connected with the lateral portions of the scutellum, and with it is connected to the base of the posterior wings, and also with a membrane or fraenum (5*) that passes from the base of the posterior wings to the posterior margin of the thoracico-abdominal segment, thus clearly indicating the relation which this segment bears to the last segment of the thorax. The ?netaphragma or septum that exists between the thorax and abdomen is formed during the metamorphoses by a constriction in the middle of the fifth segment, and as the changes pro- ceed, a portion of the fourth segment, the post- scutellum, is included in the fold or constriction, and assists to form the metaphfagma, so that the fifth segment, at least in Lepidoptera, is common both to the thorax and abdomen, and cannot properly be said to belong more espe- cially to one than to the other. Only a short portion of the fifth segment exists on the dorsal surface of the abdomen, posterior to the thorax, while the inferior portion, which was more reduced in extent during the changes than the upper, is reduced to a very short piece, which has entirely coalesced with the under surface of the sixth segment, the first true segment of the abdomen. In the meta-sternal surface there are the same parts developed as in the nieso- sternal, the arrangement of all the parts being precisely similar to those of the meso-thorax. The trockantinus (4 A;) is united with the coxa (I), from which it is distinguished, as in the limbs of the preceding segments, by a lateral suture. The first is articulated ante- riorly with the sternum (4 g), and the second posteriorly with the epimeron (4 h). The second or meta-thoracic spiracle is situated in a deep cavity behind the wings. The abdomen in Lepidoptera consists of nine distinct segments, or the remnants of that num- ber of the larva if we include the segment which we have thus seen is connected with the thorax. We prefer, however, to consider the fifth as a distinct segment, although a portion of it covers the base of the abdomen. Each segment is formed, as in other insects, of two arches, a su- perior and an inferior one. The superior one is a strong corneous plate, and is equal to nearly a complete semicircle. The inferior plate is similar in its form, but does not include so large a portion of an arch, and is not so completely solidified. The lateral margins of the inferior arches are nearly straight, but those of the superior ones are emarginated or notched, each notch or incisure being near the middle of the edge. It is occupied by an oval corneous ring, the stigma or spiracle which exists in the soft membrane or conjunctiva that connects the margins of the superior and inferior arches of the segments. A similar membrane connects the different segments together longitudinally in such a manner that the anterior margin of one segment is drawn beneath the posterior of the one that immediately precedes it. By this arrangement of the parts of the segments the abdomen can be elongated or shortened at the will of the insect, and expanded or contracted during respiration, which takes place in the abdominal as well as in the thoracic region. There are nine stigmata or spiracles on each side of the body. Two of these we have seen are situated in the thorax, and the remaining ones in the abdomen, from the sixth to the twelfth segment; but the twelfth is apparently closed, and probably does not take part in the function of respiration, which is carried on chiefly through the thoracic spiracles. It is worthy of note also that there appears to be a change in the situation of one of the spiracles during the transformation of the larva and pupa state. In the larva a spiracle exists in the fifth segment, but this does not seem to be the case in the perfect insect, in which the spiracle is removed forward to the base of the wing in the fourth, a circumstance which is highly interesting from the fact that the wings are directly con- nected with the organs and function of respira- tion. We will not enter further upon an examina- tion of the thorax and abdomen in the different orders, sufficient illustrations having been given of the parts of which they are composed, and of the manner in which they are developed from the almost uniform body of the larva. 3. Organs of locomotion.— The wings, the organs of flight in Insects, differ from those of Birds in being supernumerary parts adapted especially for aerial motion, as the legs, the proper organs of progression, are for terres- trial. The wings of Birds are simply mo- difications of the anterior pair of extremi- ties, which are employed in most other Ver- tebrata either as organs of prehension or of terrestrial or aquatic locomotion, and form parts of the normal type of the skeleton.* But the wings of Insects have no more analogy with the legs, the proper organs of locomotion, in the invertebrated than in the vertebrated classes. They are derived entirely from the respiratory structures, and have sometimes been aptly designated aerial gills. They are ex- panded portions of the common tegument of the sides of the meso- and meta-thorax, occa- sioned by the enlargement and extension of numerous tracheae and the accompanying pas- sages for the circulatory fluids, and their motions are intimately connected with the function of respiration. These trachea; ramify throughout every part of the wing, and immediately after the assumption by the insect of the imago state become solidified like the rest of the skeleton. They are hollow for the reception of air like the proper respiratory organs within the body, * See the Article Aves.