ANIMAL HEAT. 668 early life, it is difficult to suppose that a young animal will resist the action of intense cold in the same manner as an adult. This inference is fully borne out by the following experiment. A young guinea-pig a month old, the tempe- rature of whose body was high and steady, the temperature of the external air being mild, was exposed along with an adult to the same degree of diminished temperature—the air was at 6°c. (32° F.). In the course of an hour the young creature had lost 9° c. in temperature, whilst the adult had only lost 2°,.5 c. This experi- ment, repeated several times with the same species of animal, always gave the same result. Young and adult birds of the same species, treated in a similar manner, showed the same diversity in their powers of resisting the effects of external cold, from which we may infer that the law is quite general. Several young mag- pies, for instance, whose temperature was sta- tionary in a mild spring atmosphere, were placed with an adult in air cooled to +4°c. After the lapse of twenty minutes, one of the young ones was found to have lost 14° of tem- perature. The others, examined at intervals, none of which exceeded one hour and ten mi- nutes in length, had cooled from 14° to 16° c. The adult bird, on the contrary, similarly cir- cumstanced, did not suffer a greater depression of temperature than 3° c. The loss of heat sustained by the young birds was so great as to be incompatible with life, if continued ; that endured by the old one was trifling in amount, and not inconsistent with health. It is quite true that the difference in point of size and quantity of plumage has an influence upon this inequality of cooling ; but at the period of de- velopment, when the experiment was tried, the difference was not remarkable in regard to either point; nevertheless it is only proper to take notice of it. By prolonging the period during which the adults were exposed to the cooling process, the advantages they derive from their greater size and closer plumage may be counterbalanced or compensated. It is es- sential to observe that in the course of the fust hour the adult bird had only lost temperature in the proportion of one-fifth of that lost by the young birds, which obviously bears no ratio to the difference in point of size, plumage, &c. And then, the operation of the cold being con- tinued, the adult suffered no further depres- sion of temperature : it fell three degrees cen- tigrade, and then became stationary. We can- not, therefore, ascribe the entire difference in the cooling to that of the physical conditions of size and plumage ; a difference of constitution must go for a great deal; there are inherent diversities of constitution, favourable or the re- verse, to the production of heat. The truth of this conclusion appears much more clearly if we continue to subject young birds to the same kind of experiment at successive epochs not so close to one another. The rapid progress they make in the power of evolving heat is, indeed, a very remarkable fact. A few days later, and they lose temperature in a much less considera- ble degree when exposed to cold under the same circumstances, although there was little or no apparent difference in the external appear- ance of the birds. And this is a new and con- vincing proof that the inequality in the disposi- tion to lose heat obvious at different periods of life under exposure to a low external tempe- rature, is principally owing to inherent inequa- lity in the faculty of producing caloric. It is of great importance that a precise idea be formed of this expression. Up to a very recent period in the investigation of animal heat, no one thought of comparing animals save with reference to the temperature of their bodies only : and when it was found that this was the same or different by so much, the ac- count was closed, the comparison was pushed no farther, under the impression that every thing was included under this single ostensible character. Undoubtedly, it must be granted that, all else being alike, equality of tempera- ture is an indication of equality in the capacity to produce heat. But animals in one set of circumstances may actually produce the same quantity of caloric, and not continue to do this the circumstances being changed. It is of consequence to distinguish the actual produc- tion, from the power to produce under different conditions. The one is an act, the other a fa- culty, a distinction of the highest importance in philosophical language in general, and espe- cially in that of physiology. But animals of the same size, subjected to the same variations of external conditions, if they continue to ex- hibit corresponding degrees of temperature, whether these are higher or lower, have evi- dently the same faculty of producing heat. If, on the contrary, they present different degrees under the influence of precisely similar exter- nal variations of circumstance, it is obvious that they must possess the faculty of producing heat in different degrees. Unless we be actu- ally persuaded of the value of this expression, so simple in other respects, and so constantly held in view in all analogous circumstances, the study of the phenomena of animal heat would remain as it were barren, whilst the in- vestigation of the diversities of constitution in relation with this faculty is fertile in interesting and useful applications. We have seen how constitutions differed in this respect according to age in the earlier period of life and in the adult state. It is probable that there are other varieties depend- ent on other causes; for example, differences of season, climate, &c. This point it will be our next business to examine. INFLUENCE OF SEASONS IN THE PRODUC- TION OF ANIMAL HEAT. The temperature of an animal is the result, 1st, of the heat which it produces ; 2d, of that which it receives ; 3d, of that which it loses. The proportion of heat which is lost depends on two principal conditions, the relatively colder temperature of the atmosphere, and the amount of evaporation that takes place from the surface of the animal. In cold and tem- perate climates these two conditions of cooling are in inverse relations to one another in the opposite seasons of winter and summer. In