417 ORGANS OF GENERATION. both Bonnet and Jurine observed that the fe- male Aphides and Branchiopods that were fertile without the usual intercourse of the sexes were less fruitful than their mother, and those of the last generation less so than the first. Arachnida.— In the Arachnida the gene- rative system, both in the male and female, is even more simple than that of insects. The testes of the male are two in number, each being an elongated membranous bag, closed at one extremity, whilst the opposite is conti- nuous with a slender and tortuous vas deferens, the terminations of which are indicated ex- ternally by two very small orifices distinguish- able on the under surface of the abdomen near its junction with the thorax. The apertures through which the seminal fluid is discharged are totally unprovided with any apparatus of intromission or excitement; in lieu of which many genera are provided with a singular sub- stitute, or at least with an organ supposed by some authors to be an exciting organ. This is found at the extremity of the maxillary palpus, but for a detailed account of its structure and presumed functions the reader is referred to the article Arachnida. The female organs of the Araneidae are equally devoid of complication. The ovaries are simple membranous bags, which occupy when distended a considerable portion of the abdomen, and are found to contain ova ag- gregated together in considerable numbers. From each of these ovigerous sacs a short canal leads to an aperture situated near the base of the abdomen, through which, when mature, the ova are discharged. The most re- markable circumstance observable in this form of the generative system is the complete sepa- ration which exists between the sexual organs of the two sides of the body, which, both in the male and female, not only do not com- municate internally, but open upon the exterior by distinct apertures ; the insulation is, in fact, so perfect that in some cases the eggs gene- rated in the two ovaria are laid at distinct and distant periods. According; to Audebert some spiders are rendered fertile for several years by one intercourse with the male. In the Scorpions the male generative ap- paratus consists of a testis composed of nu- merous tubes united together, so as to form a series of loops, the secretion of which is dis- charged externally by a double penis resembling that of some reptiles, which is protruded through a valvular aperture seen upon the ventral surface of the thorax. The female organs of the Scorpion, like those of the male, are composed of loops of tubes, uniting together at different points, and when distended with ova resembling a neck- lace of beads : they open by two canals, (vol. i. fig. 84, c, p. 205), at the same point which the sexual aperture of the male has been seen to oc- cupy, each having a small caecum or succentu- riate gland appended near its termination. The eggs of Scorpions are hatched in the oviducts, and the progress of the develop>ement of the embryo maybe easily distinguished through the transparent coats of the ovum, resembling most accurately that observed by Herold in the evo- lution of the young spiders, figures of which are given elsewhere.* Crustacea.—As in the Arachnida, the gene- rative system of Crustaceans is for the most part double, the parts belonging to the two sides of the body being generally completely distinct from each other, not only internally but at their termination. In the higher orders the testes of the male and the ovaries of the other sex are found to be situated in the dorsal region of the thorax ; in both cases these organs appear at first sight to be of a dense glandular structure, but, on examination, are found to be essentially composed of tubular convolutions. In both the male and the fe- male, the excretory canals are simple tubes, which, after some convolutions, terminate in the male by prominent apertures, found upon the eoxal portion of the fifth or posterior pair of true legs, and in the female by similar open- ings at the base of the third pair. As in Insects, the female organs have in many genera a sacculated appendage, or copu- latory pouch as it is termed, which is, in fact, analogous in function to the spermotheca of insects, serving as a reservoir in which the male semen is detained for the purpose of im- pregnating the eggs as they successively escape from the body. After their exclusion from the oviduct the eggs of Crustaceans are generally carried about by the female. In the Decapoda they are appended by a glutinous material to the false feet situated under the tail. In the Isopoda and others they are retained in recep- tacles formed by scales placed under the ab- domen, whilst in the Entomostracous forms, as well as in many Epizoa approximating the Crustacea in structure, a remarkable provision is made for perfecting the eggs external to the bodies of these minute creatures, the females being provided with one or two membranous sacs appended to the posterior part of the abdomen, into which the oviducts open, and in which the ova are retained until they arrive at maturity. Mollusca.— Several of the more perfectly organised Mollusca come likewise under this division of our subject. Such are the Pectini- branchiate Gasteropoda, in which the structure of the generative apparatus is sufficiently sim- ple. In the male a large testis, composed of racemose follicles, shares with the liver the convolutions of the shell: from this the seminal secretion passes by a long and tortuous vas deferens to the extremity of the penis, which is in these creatures an extensile and very muscular organ, situated on the right side of the neck, and not unfrequently of enormous size when compared with the bulk of the animal. The ovarium in the female Pectinibranchiate Gasteropods corresponds in position with the male testis; the oviduct arising from it is capacious, glandular, and convoluted, serving in some genera, as in Turbo, as a receptacle * Vide Article ARACHNIDA.