558 ORGAN OF HEARING. distinct membranes, the one simply inclosed within the other, but not connected further. The inner membrane is thinner but firmer and more elastic than the outer. The latter, which does not adhere to the cartilaginous case any more than it does to the osseous labyrinth which succeeds it, gradually becomes thin, until at the seventh month there is no longer any trace of it. The inner membrane, on the con- trary, becomes proportionally thicker and firmer. Meckel has never found the membraneous labyrinth in a more simple form, nor has he been able to determine whether it ever exists naked in the cranium. At a very early period the pulpy mass of the auditory nerve becomes converted into nervous bundles, and grows either by lateral additions or by an increase of its filaments. The cochlear part of it, according to Valentin,* lies free in the tube of the cochlea under the form of a thick white cord; it follows the turns of the cochlea, but gives no considerable la- teral fibrils to the walls of it. As to how the auditory nerve ends in the membraneous laby- rinth at this period nothing is known. In an anencephalous foetus described by Hyrtl,f the cochlea was represented by a ca- vity, from the base of which, corresponding to the internal meatus, there rose a pyramid com- posed of canals and extended to the roof of it. This pyramid and the canals composing it were the representative of the axis and its canals for the transmission of the fibrils of the cochlear nerve. There was no trace of a turn of the cochlea nor of a lamina spiralis. We now enter into a more explored region, viz. the progress of ossification in the laby- rinthic shell, and for the knowledge we possess on the subject we are chiefly indebted to the late J. F. Meckel.}, The osseous labyrinth is at first merely mem- braneous; by-and-bye it becomes cartilaginous, and lastly ossifies. The membraneous laby- rinth has not been properly distinguished from it. The former at first lies free in the cavity of the cranium; the latter has never been ob- served in an uncovered state. The development of the osseous labyrinth is quite distinct from the formation of the bony substance of the petrous bone. The latter com- mences before the former. Ossification commences in the labyrinth to- wards the end of the third month round the fenestra rotunda, first at the upper part, then at the lower part; and when a ring of bone has thus been produced, ossification extends for- wards. At the same time that the process just described takes place, another osseous nucleus, quite distinct from the preceding, is developed at the outer extremity of the superior vertical semicircular canal; there then appears a third small scale nearly in the middle of the posterior vertical semicircular canal. Proceeding from the first nucleus of bone, ossification makes rapid progress backwards and downwards; * Op. cit. p. 208. t Op. et loc. cit. t Op. et loc. cit. whence the floor of the labyrinth is formed' The second nucleus enlarges perhaps even more quickly than the first, so that the whole superior vertical semicircular canal is soon os- sified, with the exception of its lower concave surface. From the inner extremity of this se- micircular canal ossification extends on the inner surface of the petrous bone, circum- scribes the internal auditory meatus, penetrates into its interior, and forms the base of the cochlea. In the fifth month ossification ex- tends from the two first nuclei to the horizontal semicircular canal. In the ossification of the cochlea, that of the petrous bone has but a very small share. All that the petrous bone contributes is merely a thin prolongation which it sends between the turns of the cochlea. This process is at first broader than at a subsequent period. From the third month, as the cochlea widens from without inwards, the process in question be- comes thinner, and, at the same time, are deve- loped the less considerable projections which separate externally the first external turn and a half of the cochlea from each other. The ossification of the labyrinth has been found imperfect; thus Krombholz* relates a case in which he found the semicircular canals, as well as both scala; of the cochlea, presenting the same thinness of walls as is remarked in the foetus. Some places were merely membraneous. I have already mentioned that the aqueducts are sometimes unusually wide, a circumstance conceivable when we consider the mode in which most likely they are developed, and which was spoken of when considering them. In certain of the lower animals, such as the pig, they are naturally wide. At first the osseous labyrinth is quite dis- tinct from the mass of the petrous bone, in which it is, as it were, embedded. Its outer surface is, up to the fifth month, quite smooth; the corresponding inner surface of the osseous mass of the petrous bone is smooth also, but not so much so. The two surfaces are soon confounded together,although the spongy cellular structure of the petrous bone can still, even for some time after birth, be easily enough removed from around the hard bony substance of the laby- rinth. Afterwards they become inseparable, though it is still possible to perceive a trace of the line of demarcation between them, especially in the cochlea. All the above circumstances show that the osseous labyrinth, though in the petrous bone, is not of it; and that, as has been already said, it cannot be affirmed to belongto the skeleton, but to be merely embedded in a bone which does. Moreover as Weberf remarks, the osseous laby- rinth is not in all animals enclosed in the same bone of the skull.; for in fishes, when a trace of the osseous labyrinth is yet to be found, the semi- circular canals, or the rudimentary representa- tive of them, are situated in the occipital bone. * Miicke, kurze Uebersicht der gegenwartig be- stehenden Lehr-und-Erziehungsanstalten fur Taub- itumme u. s. w. Prag. 1827, p. 19. f Hildebrandt's Anatoraie. Bd. iv. p. 40.