ARTICULATION OF THE ELBOW. 65 the olecranon so prominent, in consequence of which extension of the elbow can be carried farther than in the adult. At the same period the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna is pro- portionally smaller, and the annular ligament of the radius much more extensive. Varieties.—When a high division of the brachial artery takes place, it often happens that the radial artery takes a superficial course, sometimes under and occasionally over the aponeurosis to its usual destination. The pos- sibility of this occurrence should be constantly held in recollection in performing phlebotomy in this region, as it is evident that the vessel, when thus superficially situated, is exposed to be wounded by the lancet of the operator. In considering the relative advantages pre- sented by each of the superficial veins which may be selected for phlebotomy, it is necessary to remark that the operation may be performed on any of the veins at the bend of the arm ; on the cephalic and basilic veins it is un- attended with any danger; not so, however, when either the median basilic or median cephalic is the vessel selected. When bleed- ing in the median basilic vein about the mid- dle of its course, if the lancet should transfix the vein, there is danger of the instrument wounding the brachial artery, an accident of serious consequence; the risk of this accident is not so great when the vein is opened near its lower part, as the brachial artery retires from it here towards the bottom of the trian- gular depression of the elbow; besides the occasional risk of wounding the radial artery, which, in consequence of a high bifurcation of the brachial, sometimes follows the super- ficial course already alluded to, the branches of the internal cutaneous nerve may be wholly or partially divided ; in which latter case sharp pains are usually felt extending along the course of these nerves. Opening the median cephalic vein may be performed without ap- prehension of injury to the brachial artery; the external cutaneous nerve however, the trunk of which lies behind this vein, may suffer a puncture, in consequence of the lancet being pushed too deeply, the consequences follow- ing which have been in many instances a pain- ful affection extending along the branches of this nerve to their terminations. In those un- fortunate cases in which the brachial artery is punctured, should the wound in the artery not be closed and united by properly regulated pressure, the consequence likely to ensue may be one of the following: 1, the blood escap- ing from the wound in the artery may become diffused through the cellular membrane of the limb extending principally upwards towards the axilla along the sheath of the vessel, (the diffused false aneurism;) 2, the blood which escapes from the artery may be circumscribed within a limited space by the cellular mem- brane which surrounds it becoming condensed, (the circumscribed false aneurism;) 3, the wounded orifices of the artery and vein may remain in apposition, and adhere to each other, allowing the blood to pass from the artery VOL. II. directly into the vein, constituting the affection called aneurismal varix ; 4, or a circum- scribed sac may be formed between the artery and vein, having a communication with both vessels, the varicose aneurism. (J. Hart.) ELBOW (ARTICULATION OF THE), ayxcov, cubitus ; Fr. coude ; Germ, elbogen ; Ital. gomito. The elbow or humero-cubital articulation is an angular ginglymus formed by the inferior articular extremity of the os humeri and the superior articular extremities of the radius and ulna, the surfaces of which are, in. the recent state, covered with a cartilaginous incrustation, and kept in apposition by an ex- tensive synovial capsule, an anterior, a poste- rior, and two strong lateral ligaments. The muscles which cover this articulation are, the brachiaeus anticus, the inferior tendon of the triceps, and some of the muscles of the fore-arm anteriorly, the triceps and anconasus posteriorly, and the superior attachments of several of the muscles of the fore-arm laterally. Bones.—The lower part of the humerus is flattened before and behind, and curved a little forwards : an obtuse longitudinal ridge, on a line corresponding to the lesser tuberosity at its superior extremity, divides it into two slo- ping surfaces anteriorly, while posteriorly it presents a broad, flat, triangular surface: a sharp ridge on each side terminates below in a rough tuberosity, called a condyle ; the exter- nal condyle is the smaller of the two, and when the arm hangs loosely by the side, it is directed outwards and forwards : the internal condyle is much larger, more prominent, and directed inwards and backwards: a line let fall per- pendicularly from the most prominent part of the greater tuberosity above would fall upon the external condyle; the internal condyle bears a similar relation to the centre of the superior articular head of the humerus. The inferior articular surface extends transversely, below and between the condyles, and presents a series of eminences and depressions ; begin- ning at the external side, a small spheroidal eminence, the eminentia capitata or lesser head, situated on the front of the external condyle, directed forwards and received into the circular cavity on the head of the radius, internal to this is a small grooved depression which lodges the internal part of the border of that cavity: the remainder of this surface forms a sort of pulley, to which the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna corresponds; this, which is called the trochlea, presents a large depression placed be- tween two raised ridges : the depressed portion of the trochlea winds round the lower extre- mity of the humerus in an oblique direction from before backwards and a little outwards, being broader behind than in front; its external border forms a semicircular ridge, smooth in front and sharp behind, the anterior part of which corresponds to the division between the radius and ulna; its internal margin also forms a semicircular ridge, sharper and more promi- nent than the external, and which projects half