INSECTA. 896 with the mandibles in mastication," and that " this is a departure from a general law of nature, and its occurrence is well worth re- marking; as the motion of the shield might in- duce an observer to suppose it the lip, which would consequently become a new and super- numerary elementary part." Thus, then, the motion of this part in Orthoptera is considered as an anomalous condition, but the same thing occurs in Coleoptera. In Dyticida, the cly- peus is freely moveable, as well as the labrum, and probably this mobility has reference to the rapacious habits of the insects. The inferior surface of the head in Orthoptera varies a little from the type of the Coleoptera, although it is formed, as in that order, of four distinct parts. The gtila, or basilar region (m), which includes part of the occipital foramen, is a broad transverse plate, rounded at its lateral, and concave at its anterior and posterior mar- gins. In the mole-cricket, as in most of the beetles, the true gula is well developed be- tween the occipital foramen and sub-men- tum, and in that insect is of a trian- gular shape, with its apex directed backwards. Fig. 374. Under surface of mouth of Btatta. Figures as before. But in the Blattida (fig. 374, m), the sub-men- tum and gula appear to have been closely united, without trace of their former distinc- tion, and the men turn (I) is short, transverse, and articulated with the palpiger and ligula (i). From the complexity of parts into which the ligula is divided, we consider it better, as before remarked, to omit any parti- cular description of the palpiger, which, Mr. Newman states, is situated between the proper ligula and men turn. In Blatta the ligula is divided into six distinct parts. To two of these (i) are attached the labial palpi, and they ap- pear to be the palpiger as described by New- man. From the upper anterior margin of these, nearest the median line, arise two short lobes, covered partly on their exterior margins by two larger ones, the paraglossaz (* *), which become of much importance in the mouth of Hymenoptera. In the mole-cricket the ligula is divided only into four lobes, all of which are exceedingly narrow, and very much resemble palpi. In some of the Locustida, the labium is simply divided in the median line a.s in Hydrous. The true ligula or tongue (Jig. 374*) in most of the Orthoptera is a soft projecting fleshy body, like the tongue of other animals, and is situated above the men- turn and sub-mentum, within the mouth of which it forms the floor and passage to the pharynx. In Blatta it is narrow and elon- gated, and projects as far as the middle of the ligula, and it is even more largely developed in the Locustida and Achetida. In the maxilla we recognise the same parts as in Coleoptera, with but little variation of form except in the galea and lacinia. The lacinia (5) is usually elongated, and furnished with a sharp hook bipid at its apex. In Achetidaz and most of the vegetable feeders it is strong and much bent at its extremity, but in the omnivorous Bluttidte it is also sharpened to a cutting edge along its inner margin. It is in this order of insects that the secondary appendage of the maxilla, the galea (6), is most fully developed, and covers the lacinia so completely as to serve the office of a shield or helmet. In the vege- table-feeding Locustida, this part is sometimes three-jointed, as observed by Newman* in Acri/dium, but usually it is simply an obtuse double-jointed organ, hollowed on its inner side; but in the Blattida it is expanded at its extremity into a thick oval bulb, or soft cushion, encircled with fine hairs, evidently well adapted for touching or feeling. In all the Orthoptera, but more particularly in the Blattida, the articulation of the maxilla with the sub-mentum is less compact than in the Coleoptera ; and this appears to be referable to the same circumstance as before noticed with regard to the mobility of the anterior clypeus, the voracious habits of the insect. Thus, to allow of very extensive motion to the parts, the stipes (2) is articulated at an angle with the cardo (1), and a broad muscular structure, at- tached along the inner border of the lacinia, as far as the base of its sharp articulated apex, upon which it acts, is interposed between the maxilla and sub-mentum, and forms part of the inferior boundary of the mouth. The mandibles in this order of insects, as remarked by Marcel de Serres,-)- are more perfectly constructed than in any other. In those which masticate their food, and devour large quantities of vegetable matter, as the Locustida, the mandibles are furnished both with cutting and grinding sur- faces. The anterior or apical margin is deve- loped into acute cutting teeth, somewhat like the canine teeth of vertebrata, while the inner and posterior part of the mandible is broad, flattened, and covered with elevated irregular ridges, like the teeth of some Herbivora, and is admirably adapted for grinding or chewing. This complicated structure does not exist in the more carnivorous species, the Blattida, in which the mandibles are arched, and indented with sharp triangular teeth (fig. 3TS,f), very closely resembling the cutting teeth of Carni- vore, and are articulated by strong condyles at the side of the head, on a line with the articula- tion of the clypeus anterior, and not so far back as that of the maxilla. The eyes in Orthoptera are usually exceedingly prominent and round, but not large, except in Blatta, in which they * P. 32. t Annales des Museums, No. xvi. p. 56.