INSECTA. 905 strong, with sharp cutting edges. They are short- er and narrower than the mandibles, and are usually inclosed within the sheath or proboscis formed by the labium. In this family some of their primary parts are easily distinguished. Thus the blades (5) that lie within the sheath of the labium, are the true laciniae in other insects. These are articulated at their base with the palpifer (3), a small triangular plate, which bears the maxillary palpus and is situ- ated most externally,—and also with a broad squamous plate (2), which is united at its base to its fellow of the opposite side, and appears to be analogous to the stipes and cardo(l) united. This plate, with its fellow, forms the anterior boundary of the throat, and is closely united to the proper gula that bounds the anterior margin of the occipital foramen. The muscles attached to the posterior margin of the mentum and submentum pass over this plate to be attached, one set to the anterior margin of the gula, and the other to the posterior. In Volucella bombylans the maxillae have lost much of their importance, but are still easily distinguished, and, with the other parts of the mouth, are beginning to be merged in the united fleshy proboscis. The cardines, upon which all the motions of flexion and extension in this kind of mouth depend, are very largely developed. They are two elongated plates, approximated to each other along their inner margins, and to two triangular plates, the re- mains of the mandibles, at their anterior and lateral. The cardines thus form the posterior, or basilar part of the proboscis, and the plates which, from being articulated within the margin of the clypeus posterior, we regard as analogous to the mandibles, the lateral. At their inferior portion, which forms the joint or elbow of the proboscis, the cardines are freely articulated with the stipes, which is a short plate not easily distinguished from a part of the mandible with which it is also in apposition. Between the stipes and cardo is a short trian- gular plate, the palpiger, rounded at its most inferior part, and, with its fellow of the oppo- site side, assisting to form the elbow or joint of the proboscis. The maxillary palpus, which aises from its external border, is long and slender, and appears to be formed of three short joints and one very long one. At the inner and anterior margin of the palpifer and stipes is articulated the laciniu, which, as in Asilus, is of considerable length. It is inte- resting to remark, that in this insect, which is parasitic in its habits, insinuating itself into the nests of humble-bees to deposit its eggs, the mandibles, as just shewn, are atrophied, and the two laciniae of the maxillae, although dis- tinct from each other, are approximated in the middle line to form the anterior or upper sur- face of the tube to the mouth, as in Hymen- optera, the sides and lower portion of the tube being formed by the labium, and all the motions of extension and flexion in the proboscis being dependent upon the cardines, as we have before seen in Ilymenoptera. In this genus there- fore we discover one of the transitionary forms of mouth from that of the blood-sucking in- sects to those of the more omnivorous feeders, all the parts of the mouth being less and less distinct in proportion as the act of taking food is less complicated. Thus we have seen that in Tabanus distinct mandibles are required to pierce the skin of an animal, before the food is accessible; but in the Muscida, whose fluid aliment is every where present, a complicated form of mouth is unnecessary, and accordingly we find it reduced to a simple sucking tube. In Eristulis the maxilla are present, as in Asilus and Volucella, as also are their palpi, which are nearly equal to them in length. In Ec/iinomi/ia they are less distinct than in Volu- cella. The anterior part of the proboscis at its base is formed simply by a broad membrane united to the anterior margin of the atrophied mandibles, while the lacinia?, which were dis- tinct in the preceding genera, are united in this genus to form the front of a lower portion of the organ. That this union has taken place is shewn in the presence of the maxillary palpi, which invariably exist in Dipterous insects. In all the Muscida the palpi arise from a distinct palpifer, which appears to be connected with a proper stipes, but the re- maining parts are not easily distinguished. It seems evident, however, that at least the basilar portion of the proboscis is formed by the union of the laciniae above and the labium below, as in Hymenoptera, and that the la- bium forms the chief portion of the organ, contrary to the opinion of Desvoidsy, who believed that the proboscis of Diptera was formed of the maxillae alone, and to that of Savigny, who regarded the proboscis as formed only of the labium. The principle therefore upon which the proboscis of Dipteia is con- structed, is precisely analogous to that of Hymenoptera, but there are important diffe- rences in the form of similar parts in the two orders. The labium includes the same primary parts as in Hymenoptera, but the labial palpi are almost invariably absent. The submentum is usually indistinct. In Asilus the p'art we regard as such is a small triangular plate, (m,) distinguished only when the parts are examined by transmitted light. It is situated between the anterior portions of the two cardines. In Volucella it is that part of the proboscis which is nearest to the cardines, close to the articu- lation. In Culex, in which the cardines are short, it is situated very close to the under surface of the head ; in other Diptera it is fre- quently very indistinct. The mentum on the contrary is always a conspicuous part. In Asilus it is the broadest part of the proboscis (/). It is a strong horny plate, deeply channelled on its upper surface to form a canal to the mouth, and receive within it the mandibles and max- illae. It is articulated with the ligula, or ex- tremity of the proboscis (i), which is distinctly formed of two halves approximated together, and narrowest at the apex, with three slight lateral dilatations. In Volucella the mentum in like manner is a strong deeply channelled plate, covered above by the laciniae. There is *