270 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. very probable, inasmuch as Cloquet takes no account of fasciculi, and in his description of the smaller packet it is manifest that he has assumed the fasciculi, of which it is composed, to be filaments, for he does not attribute to it a greater number of filaments than it contains of fasciculi. But if Cloquet have underrated the filaments of the larger packet, Meckel junior has certainly overrated the fasciculi of the smaller one. From his account of the latter, it is to be concluded that it contains from three to fourteen fasciculi, but either of those numbers is too great, as will be seen from an examination of the subject, from which it will appear that they do not exceed the number attributed to them by Cloquet. The ultimate number of filaments, however, would seem to be somewhat uncertain, for it appears to depend very much upon the delicacy with which the separation of them may be effected ; and after all it is not a matter of any great importance. According to Wrisberg* and Scemmerringl the number of fibres contained in the greater packet is always less in the foetus than in the adult. The filaments of the smaller are stated by Cloquet to be larger, softer, and whiter than those of the other; but with regard to the difference of size it is probable that this opinion has arisen also from his having assumed the fasciculi to be filaments, inas- much as, when the fasciculi have been decom- posed, the filaments seem to be equally fine in both packets ; and for the other points of sup- posed difference the author has not been able satisfactorily to observe any in man. In other animals, however,—in some fish at least—a remarkable difference may be observed between the characters of the ganglionic and non-gan- glionic portions, the latter of which, in the Cod, is much softer, and of a darker, not whiter, colour than the other. The fascicular and filamentous disposition which has been described, is not, however, presented by the encephalic portion of the nerve through its entire extent, but only in that part of it which is superficial to the brain; nor is it acquired by it until after it has emerged one or two lines from the substance of the organ, and then it does not assume it through- out at once, but at first superficially and later internally. The appearance of distinct fila- ments and fasciculi in one part and their ab- sence in the other appears owing to the exist- ence of neurilema in the former, for in one as in the other the nervous matter appears to be arranged in longitudinal tracts, which pre- sent in one case the form of expansions, and in the other are divided by the neurilema into separate cords ; and again the occurrence of the filamentous disposition earlier upon the surface than internally, is attributed to the superficial substance of the nerve being pro- vided with neurilema sooner than the inter- nal ; hence the length of the substance of the nerve without neurilema is greater internally * Observations Anatomicre de quinto pari ner- vorum, &c. t In Imdwig, Script. Neurol. Min. Ueber das Organ der Seele. than externally, and when the nerve has been pulled away from its attachment to the brain, the rupture occurring at the point at which the neurilema commences, the part which is left projects in the middle, and presents a conical eminence of white matter: this, as Cloquet justly remarks, is but an incidental appearance, and not entitled to be considered, as it was by Bichat,* a real tubercle, from which the nerve arose. In neither packet are the fasciculi laid simply in apposition; in both, but more remarkably in the larger, they are connected by frequent interchanges of filaments, and that to such a degree that the nerve when opened out appears to form an inextricable plexus, in which it is not improbable that every filament of it is connected directly or indirectly with all the others; this plexiform arrangement diminishes as the nerve approaches the gan- glion, before reaching which the fasciculi be- come more distinct. The fifth nerve is attached to the surface of the brain on either side of the pons Varolii, at a distance of three-fourths of an inch from its middle line. It is attached to the middle crus of the cerebellum, on its anterior inferior surface, about one-fourth of an inch from its superior, and half an inch from its inferior margin. The place of the attachment of the nerve to the exterior of the brain varies greatly in dif- ferent classes of animals ; in man, it is, as has been mentioned, the crus cerebelli on either side of the pons; in the other orders of the Mammalia it is either, as in the human sub- ject, the crus cerebelli, or, when the pons is less developed than in man, the nerve is at- tached behind that part between it and the trapezium of the medulla oblongata; in the other three classes of vertebrate animals, in which the pons and trapezium are both want- ing, the nerve is uniformly attached to the la- teral parts of the spina! bulb. This contrast is equally curious and important; it affords us a natural analysis, which will throw much light on the next step in our inquiry, viz. the origin of the nerve, or its ultimate connexion with the brain. It furnishes also, as has been sug- gested by Gall and Spurzheim,f an explana- tion of the complication which exists in the human being, in whom the great developement and the situation of the pons render it neces- sary that the nerve should traverse it, in order to reach the surface of the brain. At the attachment of the nerve to the crus cerebelli in the human subject, the non-gan- glionic portion or lesser packet is situate above and to the inner side of the greater. At that place it is separated or separable into two parts, while the greater continues undivided, and hence the nerve is described as having three roots, one for the greater and two for the lesser packet. The existence of two roots for the lesser packet had been announced by Santorini,! but they have been more parti- * Anatomie Descriptive. t Anatomie et Physiologie du Systeme Nerveux. X Observations Anatomical.