264 FIBROUS TISSUE. exposed; whilst the same cohesive property enables the tendons, under all ordinary circum- stances, to bear the immense force of muscular contraction. Having considered the general characters of these organs, I shall proceed to describe the most essential properties of each individual class. 1. Of the periosteum.—This may be regard- ed as the most important of the fibrous tissues; indeed so universal are its connexions, that if any common centre of this system were sought for, we should certainly coincide with Bichat in considering this to be the periosteum. Dis- carding the erroneous ideas of the ancients and Arabian physicians, who imagined that the membranes of the body were all continued from those of the head, we shall find that, with the exception of the perichondrium of the larynx and the fibrous tunics of some glandular bodies, all the fibrous organs are in connexion with the periosteum. The inner surface of the periosteum firmly adheres to the several bones by a multitude of delicate processes passing into the openings observed on their external surface. These pro- cesses convey into the bones an amazing num- ber of fine arteries and veins, called therefore periosteal, and which may be regarded as the principal, or as some anatomists contend, the only proper vessels of the osseous tissue. The outer surface is rough, and is united by the cellular tissue to the surrounding muscles, tendons, ligaments, and fascia?; in the nostrils, sinuses, and tympanum, the periosteum is, however, joined to the mucous membranes, and in the skull the surface unattached to the bones is lined by the arachnoid. The periosteum constitutes the nutrient membrane of the bones, and thus bears an im- portant part in the process of ossification and in the reparation of fractured and diseased bones; it also serves as a medium for the attachment of the ligaments, tendons, and fascia? to the skeleton. 2. Fascia.—The fibrous fasciae or aponeu- roses not only invest the surface of the limbs, but also furnish a number of processes, which, penetrating deeply among the several muscles, form sheaths to those organs, by which they as well as the bloodvessels and nerves are main- tained in their proper situation. It is evident that these partitions must exert a great influence on the growth of various kinds of tumours, on effusion of blood, on the extravasation of urine, and on the formation of matter; so that their relations form an important branch of surgical anatomy. In order to give to these muscular envelopes the necessary degree of tension, they are either provided with special muscles, as in the case of the tensor vagina? femoris and the palmaris longus, or they receive processes from the neighbouring tendons, as from the biceps cubiti, semi-tendinosus, and so forth. The aponeuroses thus braced afford a firm support to the parts they cover, and in this manner they increase the powers of the muscu- lar system; whilst by their resistance they efficiently protect the vessels and nerves from external violence, and at the same time proba- bly assist in the circulation of the blood and lymph, and so prevent varicose enlargement of the deep-seated veins and oedema of the extre- mities. See Fascia. 3. Tendinous sheaths.—These are in their office analogous with the last, excepting that, instead of fixing the muscles, they secure the tendons during muscular action. The thecal ligaments of the hand and foot, the annular ligaments of the wrist and ankle, and the fascial sheaths around the knee are of this character. They are distinguished by their great strength, and as they are internally lined by synovial membrane, they facilitate the play of the ten- dons ; and in many instances, as in the trochlea of the os frontis and the sulci of the carpal extre- mity of the radius, they also modify the action of the muscles whose tendons they transmit. 4. Fibrous coverings.-—-Certain organs are provided, for the purpose of protection, with dense ligamentous coverings; of this order are the dura mater, the sclerotic coat of the eye, the loose portion of the pericardium, the proper covering of the kidney, of the salivary glands, mamma, spleen, thyroid gland, thymus, lym- phatic glands, of the prostate, testicle and ovary ; probably the exterior investment of the nervous ganglia is of the same character. Some of these envelopes, as the dura mater, pericar- dium, and tunica albuginea testis, are lined on one surface by a serous membrane, and thus constitute Jibro-serous membranes, or as they are called by Beclard, compound fibrous mem- branes. 5. Ligaments.—These bodies possess in an eminent degree those properties by which the whole fibrous system is distinguished; and consequently the term ligamentous is often em- ployed to designate the whole of the fibrous organs. The ligaments fulfil a very important office in the animal economy by binding together the various bones of the skeleton, an object which they are enabled to effect in consequence of their fibres being very firmly attached, and as it were consolidated with the osseous system through the medium of the periosteum. It is stated by Portal, that after the bones have been softened by the influence of an acid, the liga- ments are observed to send processes into their substance, which cause the ligaments to adhere so firmly that, although by very great force they may be torn, yet they cannot be separated from the bones. Although these organs are dissimilar in shape, yet there are three forms among them which predominate: t. the capsular, 2. the funicular, 3. what, for want of a better ex- pression, may be called laminated. The true fibrous capsules which consist of cylindrical bags lined internally by synovial membrane, are confined to the shoulder and hip-joints, although imperfect capsules exist in many other articulations. The funicular and la- minated ligaments are much more universally diffused, assisting in fact in the formation of every joint in the skeleton.