476 GENERATION. The mere description of an event may affect the child, as in the following curious case. 15. A woman who had listened with con- siderable interest to a description of the ope- ration of circumcision bears a child with the foreskin split up and turned back ! 16. A woman who sees another affected with prolapsus uteri bears a child affected with the same disease. The examples of the effect of sudden fright, disgust, anger, joy, &c. are very numerous. 17. A lady absent from home is alarmed by seeing a great fire in the direction of and near her own house; and some months afterwards bears a female child having the distinct mark of a flame on her forehead. 18. A pregnant woman frighted by her hus- band pursuing her with a drawn sword, bears a child with a large wound in the forehead. 19. A man who had personated a devil (or satyr according to other authorities) goes to bed in his assumed dress, and his wife, being then pregnant, afterwards bears a child having horns, cloven feet, &c. 20. A mother frighted by the firing of a gun has a child wounded as by a gun-shot. 21. A pregnant woman falls into a violent passion at not being able to obtain a particular piece of meat at a butcher's shop; she bleeds at the nose, and wiping the blood from her lip, afterwards bears a child wanting the lip. 22. A woman two months before being brought to bed is alarmed by hearing a report that a neighbour had murdered his wife by a wound on the breast, and bears a child with a similar wound. 23. A child is born with the hair of one side black, that of the other white: competent judges declared at the time that both sides would have been white, but for the circum- stance that the mother had carried a heavy sack of coals during her pregnancy. 24. A woman frighted by the sudden ap- pearance of a negro brings forth a child with various black marks. 25. A mother is suddenly frighted by a lizard jumping into her breast, and afterwards gives birth to a child having a fleshy excre- scence exactly like a lizard growing from the breast, to which it adhered by the head or neck. 26. A child has a face exactly like a frog's, from the mother having held a frog in her hand about the time of conception. 27. The remarkable resemblance of a wo- man to an ape was fully accounted for by her mother having been much pleased with one of these animals when with child of her. The effect of the attentive contemplation of pictures, statues, &c. by pregnant women is worthy of notice. 28. A chi^d is born covered with hairs in consequent' of the mother having been in the habit of "beholding a picture of St. John the Baptist. 29. A woman gives birth to a child covered with hair and having the claws of a bear, from her constantly beholding the images and pic- tures of bears hung up every where in the dwelling of the Ursini family, to which she belonged. It is not stated by the Author of Waverley, whether any thing of the kind ever happened in the Bradwardine family. 30. A woman contemplating, too earnestly as it appears, a picture of St. Pius, has after- wards a child bearing a striking resemblance to an old man. 31. The tyrant Dionysius was aware of the effect of pictures; for he hung a beautiful picture in his wife's chamber, in order to im- prove his children's looks. 32. Two girls (twins) were born with their bodies joined together, their mother having during her pregnancy been in the habit of at- tentively contemplating two sacred images similarly placed. 33. A child is born with its skin all mottled in colour from the mother having made a visit to St. Winifred's Well, and seeing the red peb- bles there. 34. Another child was marked on the face, in consequence of the mother having worn black patches. The longings and depraved appetites to which pregnant women are liable are occa- sionally the causes of marks and deformities in their children. 35. There are a great many instances in which the longing of the mother after straw- berries, grapes, cherries, peaches, and other fruits has caused the growth of tumours in the children exactly resembling in each the fruit that was wished for, 36. A woman who had longed for a lobster brings forth a child much resembling one of these animals. 37. Another woman had a female child, the head of which was like a shell-fish (a bivalve, which opened and shut as a mouth), which proceeded from the mother's having had a strong desire for mussels at one time of her preg- nancy. 38. A pregnant woman longs, or has a great desire to bite the shoulder of a baker who happens to pass. The husband, wishing to humour this extraordinary fancy, hires the baker to submit to be bitten. The mother makes two bites, but of such a kind that the baker will not submit to more; and some time after- wards she is brought to bed of three children, one dead and two living. 39. A case of spina bifida near the sacrum is explained by the mother's having wished for fritters, and not obtaining them, having ap- plied her hand (we know not with what object) to a corresponding place in her own body. The impression on the fancy of the mother may be made before conception has taken place: thus— 40 A woman, whose children had pre- viously been healthy, six weeks before con- ception is suddenly frighted by a beggar who presents a stumped arm and a wooden leg, and threatens to embrace her: the next child had only one stump leg and two stump arms. The impression on the fancy may extend to the product of several successive conceptions. 41. A young woman frighted in her first