388 HEART. anterior fissure from the apex near to the com- mencement of the aorta, then another in- cision midway between the posterior fissure and left edge of the ventricle, commencing near the base and carrying it downwards to join the other at the apex. The anterior and right parietes of the internal surface are formed by the septum ; the posterior and left belong ex- clusively to itself. The walls of the left ven- tricle are considerably thicker than those of the right, and remain apart, while those of the right fall together. As connected with this we may observe that the septum is concave towards the left ventricle and convex towards the right. As the obstacles to be overcome in transmitting the blood through the body are greater than those to be overcome in transmitting it through the lungs, so is the left ventricle thicker than the right. It is important to remark, as connected with the pathology of spontaneous rupture of the heart, that the walls of the left, like those of the right ventricle, are considerably thinner at the apex than towards the base.* The ante- rior and right parietes are longer than the pos- terior and left. The columns may be arranged into three kinds, such as we have described in the right ventricle. They are not so numerous in the left ventricle as in the right. The greater number are also smaller, and are principally placed upon the posterior and left wall, near the apex of which they form deep areolae.f The upper part of the septum which leads to the aortic opening, which we shall presently describe, is quite smooth. In the base of the ventricle we find two openings placed closely together; one of these, the smaller, is placed to the right and a little anterior, is the commencement of the aorta, and occupies the upper and right corner of the ventricle ; the other is larger and placed to the left and a little posterior, and is the auriculo-ventricular opening of this side. The aortic opening is only separated from the auriculo-ventricular opening by the tendinous ring, and from the orifice of the pulmonary artery by the upper part of the septum. A valve resembling the tricuspid is attached to the tendinous ring around the auriculo-ventri- cular opening, which, from being more de- cidedly divided into two lips, is termed bicuspid, and from its fanciful resemblance to a bishop's mitre has generally received the name of mitral valve. Like the tricuspid it forms a complete ring around the margin of the auriculo-ventri- cular opening. The anterior lip of the valve in the quiescent state of the heart hangs suspended between the auriculo-ventricular opening and the origin of the aorta, and is considerably larger and more moveable than the posterior, which is smaller and more limited in its move- * The circular arrangement of the muscular fibres around the apex (Jig. 274 J must have the effect ot rapidly approximating the inner surfaces of the ventricles at the apex during their systole, more particularly when the apex is elongated, as in the heart of the horse, and thus prevent the pres- sure from falling upon the extremity of the apex, where it is very weakly protected. t Laennec. has erroneously stated in general terms that the columnar of the right ventricle are larger than those of I he left. merits. The mitral valve is formed in the same manner as the tricuspid, and is somewhat thicker and stronger, and like it contains a number of tubercles in its free margin. The large anterior lip of the mitral valve projecting downwards into the ventricle was described by Lieutaud and by others since his time as dividing the ventricle into two portions, an aortic and a ventricular. These are separated from each other at the upper part by the valve only; at every other part they communicate with each other. The same authors have described the larger lip of the tricuspid valve as effecting a similar division of the pulmonic ventricle. Two of the columnar carnea; in the left ventricle belong to the third kind (musculi papillares) already described, and are much stronger than any to be found in the right ven- tricle. They are attached to the lower part of its cavity, pass upwards, and about the middle of the ventricle terminate in a blunt extremity, from which a number of chorda; tendines pass to be attached to the margins of the mitral valve. Bouillaud describes these two columns as uniformly occupying the same position, one being placed at the junction of its left and posterior walls to form the left margin of the heart; the other on the posterior wall near its junction with the posterior margin of the sep- tum.* Each of these fleshy columns consists of two fasciculi, of an anterior and superior, and of a posterior and inferior. The posterior and inferior fasciculus is shorter and less strong than the anterior. The chordae tendineae of the two anterior or internal fasciculi proceed to attach themselves to the margins of the anterior or larger lip of the valves, those from one fasciculus passing to one edge of the lip, and those of the other fasciculus to the other edge. As these chorda; tendinea; proceed from the fasciculi to the valve, they diverge from those of the same fasciculus, but converge towards those of the other fasciculus. (Fig. 2G9 shews the attachment of the chorda; tendineue of the two anterior or internal fasciculi.) The chorda; tendineae from the posterior fasciculi pass in a similar manner to be attached to the posterior lip. The posterior lip is fixed closer in its situation than the anterior, by the chorda; ten- dinea?, and this is frequently increased by some of these cords passing from the walls of the ventricle to be attached to the ventricular sur- face of the valve, sometimes nearly as high as the fixed margin of the valve. These chordae tendineae are stronger, fewer in number, and less subdivided than those in the right ventricle. Several of them pass between the fleshy columns without being attached to the valves, as in the right ventricle. Though the description here given is not perfectly uniform in every case, but is liable to frequent varieties,—by the non-divi- * I have satisfied myself by numerous examina- tions, of the accuracy of Bouillaud's account of the position of these musculi papillares and the arraa^e. rnent of the chorda; tendineae in the human heart. I have found them occupying a similar position in the heart of the horse, ox, ass, sheep, pig, do"-, rabbit, hedge-hog, and some birds, and suspeet that this will be found a general law in all th<j warm-blooded animals.