ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 798 situated, but instead of opening by its posterior extremity into the rectum, its fundus was ele- vated somewhat higher in the pelvis, and burst into the vena cava. The late Dr. M'Dowel, in the fourth volume of the Dublin Journal, says that in two cases of hip-joint disease he had seen several years since, the matter had passed into the pelvis through the bottom of the acetabu- lum, and there accumulated in such quantity as to compress the bladder and cause retention of urine, requiring the daily use of the catheter. He also adds, that this route for the matter is not uncommon, and in its progress that it may form a tumour of considerable size by the side of the rectum, and occasionally burst into the cavity of this intestine. Sir A. Cooper men- tions the latter occurrence in one instance. Dr. M'Dowel adds, I had an opportunity of wit- nessing it. Abscesses take their course from the diseased joint into the pelvis, and open into the vagina. Sir B. Brodie mentions a case of this kind in a child aged 11 years; and in Dr. Kirby's collection, which he presented to the College of Surgeons, is a similar ex- ample. Dr. M'Dowel, in the paper already alluded to, observes that he is not aware of its being recorded that an iliac abscess may result from a caries of the hip-joint, yet in four cases, he adds, I have found it to occur. The fluid escaping through an opening on the inside of the capsular ligament, passes upwards behind the psoas and ascends into the iliac fossa, de- taching the muscles from the bone. In such cases we have considerable fulness in the groin, which can be traced upwards behind Poupart's ligament; from the stretching of the filaments of the anterior crural nerve more neuralgic pain attends this case than we usually find in disease of the hip-joint. The iliac vessels are dis- placed, become flattened and adherent to the sac; from the compression of the vein much more oedema of the limb is present than in or- dinary eases. The ccecum or the sigmoid flex- ure of the colon may be considerably displaced or united to the sac* Sometimes it passes behind the vessels, and accumulating, it may compress the bladder and rectum, which then form the inner wall of the abscess. In a very interesting case of iliac abscess which was treated in the year 1833 in the Rich- mond Hospital, ulceration of a portion of the ilium adhering to the wall of the abscess oc- curred, and its contents, after being poured into the abscess, escaped externally through a fistu- lous opening near the spine of the ilium ; ulce- ration also of the external iliac artery took place about an inch and a half above Poupart's liga- ment, and sudden death resulted from the blood escaping in large quantity into the cavity of the abscess. The preparation is preserved in the museum of the Richmond Hospital. The anterior and crural nerves are often found on the stretch. We have already mentioned a case of this kind, (Clarke,) and Sir B. Brodie mentions one in which he found two enlarged * The matter, which is generally prevented from passing down into the true pelvis by the connexion of the fascia iliaca, sometimes makes its way into this cavity by ulceration of this fascia. lymphatic glands, each the size of a walnut, immediately below the crural arch in the fore part of the joint, and these lay in contact with and immediately behind two branches of the nerves, so as to keep the latter on the stretch, like the strings passing over the bridge of a violin. We must not forget that the diseased action in these cases of chronic strumous arthritis is not confined to the joint. We have seen ex- amples in the living and specimens in mu- seums, proving that at the same lime both hip- joints may be engaged in the same individual. In acute cases we have given an example of the membranes of the brain having been affected, so also in chronic cases; tubercles have also been found in the lungs, the mesenteric glands extensively enlarged, and ulcers in the intes- tines, and tubercular accretions in the perito- neum. 3. Chronic rheumatism.— (Morbus coxce senilis, or chronic rheumatic arthritis of the hip.) By these terms we would wish to de- signate a very peculiar disease of the hip- joint, the morbid results of which are now pretty well known to pathological anatomists ; but it must be confessed that very little has been done to make the profession acquainted with its symptoms or appropriate treatment. History of the disease.—We will venture to assert that there cannot be a more graphic il- lustration given of this disease and its conse- quences than those to be found in the Museum Anatomicum of Sandifort, who has not confined his delineations to the head and neck of the thigh-bone, but has also shewn the various alterations of form which the acetabulum un- dergoes.* For many years this disease has been accurately described in the clinical lec- tures delivered in the different hospitals in Dublin, and the importance of distinguishing it from the other affections of this articulation has been pointed out. Mr. Benjamin Bell, in his work on the bones, has, under the head of " interstitial absorption of the neck of the thigh-bone," alluded to this disease,and detailed many of its external signs, as well as the mor- bid changes which the neck of the bone suffers ; and in the sixth volume of the Dublin Journal, Mr. Smith, in a paper on the diagnosis of in- juries of the hip, has given a very good and concise account of this remarkable affection of the hip-joint. The writer of this article long ago, in his lectures, gave the name of morbus coxa seni- lis to the disease in question, but as he has since met with many instances of it occurring so early as at the age of thirty or forty, he is now disposed to substitute for this name that of chronic rheumatic arthritis of the hip-joint, and he considers it as the same disease pre- cisely as he has elsewhere in this work described as affecting other articulations. (See Elbow, Hand, Knee, Shoulder.) As to the cause of this chronic disease of the hip-joint, we believe little is known. We have heard it frequently attributed to the effects of cold and wet; and an acute attack of rheu- * Mus Anatom. Lugduui Batavorum, 1793. vol. ii. tab. lxix. ad lxxiii.