955 INSECTA. The most posterior one is given to the muscles within the head, and the other passes along the outward part of the interior of the mandible to its apex. The medulla oblongata with the con- tinuation of the nervous cord in all Coleoptera passes under the bony arch or tentorium at the base of the skull, protected on both sides, as in Melolontha,* Dyticus, and Hydrous, by the lamina posteriores, which inclose it, as in a canal, distinct from the oesophagus, that passes along above it, and from which it is separated by a fine fibrous membrane. The crura and the base of the cerebrum rest upon and are partly protected on each side by the lamina squamosa, which thus, as it were, form a kind of internal skeleton for the protection of the soft part. The optic nerves at their base rest upon the lamina? in their course to the eye, and extend as far outwards as the lamina orbitales through the foramen in which they pass, and are immediately expanded into an immense number of filaments which form part of the organ of vision, as we shall presently describe. The whole of the cerebrum is loosely covered by a fine transparent membrane that is continuous with the fibrous membrane that covers the cord. In some instances, as in the Bombus terrestris, it is very distinct, and in others, as shown by Burmeister, is studded with minute opaque rounded elevations, arranged in the form of squares. It appears to be reflected along the course of the optic nerves, and to be continuous in part with the margins of the lamina squamosa, and separates the brain from the muscles, by which it is on almost every side inclosed. In Lucanus cervus, instead of the medulla passing under a simple arch or tentorium, the laminee laterales are approxi- mated and form a double ring (fig. 388, through the inferior of which, as through the ring of a vertebra, the nervous cord passes in its course to the prothorax. In the Orthoptera, as in Blatta Americana and Gryllotalpa, we have seen the same structure, but in these the ring is lengthened and forms a more distinct canal. In the Hymenoptera, as in the hornet and humble-bee, the form of the part is exactly the same, and the cord passes through a short bony ring in its passage to the thorax. There is a somewhat similar structure in Lepidoptera as in Sphinx ligustri, only that it is much less complete, the arch being simply a bar extended across the occipital foramen and dividing it into two, through the lower one of which the cord passes, and also on each side of it the flexor muscles of the head. A like form exists in the Homoptera, but much less perfect. The cord and nerves of the thorax, which are usually much larger than those of the abdomen, we regard as the proper cerebro- spinal system, and the abdominal portion as the caudal. This is the view taken of these parts by Burmeister, with whose opinion we perfectly coincide. The prothoracic ganglion is situated immediately before the ante-furca, between which the cord passes to the meta- thorax, when it forms a great ganglion anterior * Straus, Considerat. &c. to and beneath the medifurca, and then passes onwards over the post-furca to the abdomen. In the Lamellicornes and others in which the cord terminates in the thorax, and the nerves radiate from thence into the abdomen as a cauda equina, they pass over the post-furca in a bundle, and do not separate until they enter the latter region. In the Gryllidce, in whicli most of the segments are equally developed, and th ere are three large thoracic ganglia, the meta- thoracic one is situated in the middle of the segment, and the succeeding or fourth sub- oesophageal ganglion on the rudimentary post- furca. In the Hymenoptera, in which there are but two ganglia in the thorax, the anterior and smaller one is situated at the margin of the metathorax, and the great ganglion at the posterior, and the cord continued from it passes through a strong bony canal or ring in the medifurca, somewhat resembling that.which exists in the head, and then forms a smaller ganglion before it enters the abdomen. In the Hemiptera, in which it has been supposed that there is only one ganglion in the thoracic region, the cord between the medulla and pro- thoracic ganglion is exceedingly short, but is protected in its passage through the elongated neck, and then is developed into a large pro- thoracic ganglion, the second ganglion being situated in the middle of the meso-thorax before the medifurca. These parts are very distinct in Nepa grandis. In the Lepidoptera, in which the form of the thorax is more compact even than in the Hymenoptera, the cord passes on each side of the medifurca or part to which the triangular muscles are attached, and is so much enlarged as to appear almost like a por- tion or continuation of each of the two great ganglia situated before and behind it. The cords and ganglia of the thorax are covered in by a strong white membrane like those of the head. In the Lepidoptera this is particularly firm, so that the nervous system is not included within the cavity of the thorax. In the distribution of the nerves there are some peculiarities. We have seen the auxil- iary connecting nerves of Burmeister, as shown by us formerly in the larva of the Sphinx* (fig, 406), in many species. They exist be- tween the cord and all the ganglia of the thorax in the Gryllida (fig. 410, e, h,) and between the cord and the nerves to the wings in Athalia centifolia and Panorpa communis. We have seen them also in Oiceoptorna, Pro- scarabaus, Creophilus, Lampyris, Forficula, Blatta, and even in an imperfect form in (Eslrus, as well as in some of the Lepidoptera. They are invariably connected with the nerves to the wings, of which they form one portion, and are far more frequently met with than Burmeister appears to have supposed. We formerly! remarked on a peculiarity in the dis- tribution of the thoracic nerves in the Sphinx, and the opinion then ventured with regard to its nature we have since had reason to believe was well founded. We have seen the auxiliary * Phil. Trans. 1832/part ii. p. 387-8. t Phil. Trans. 1834, part ii. p. 394.