368 MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. the flexor communis digitorum sublimis. The relation of this muscle to the ulnar artery has induced some anatomists to denominate it muscle satellite de I'artire cubitale. In addition to its power as a flexor of the hand on the fore-arm, this muscle adducts the hand, drawing it towards the mesial line. b. The deep layer of muscles.—These are three in number, the flexor longus proprius pollicis, flexor communis digitorum profundus perforans, and the pronator quadratus. A por- tion of the supinator radii brevis is also found in it. 1. The flexor longus proprius pollicis, Scemm. (' Radio-phalangettien du pouce, Chauss.) This muscle, situated most exter- nally, arises by two heads; one, narrow, rounded, tendinous, and fleshy, from the inner condyle of the humerus; the other, broad and fleshy, from the front of the radius, below the insertion of the biceps and supinator radii brevis, and from the interosseal ligament, extending as low down as the insertion of the pronator quadratus. Its tendon, first formed on its internal and anterior edge, descends behind the annular ligament of the wrist-joint, and taking its course between the two heads of the flexor brevis pollicis, is inserted into the last phalanx of the thumb. This muscle is covered anteriorly by the supinator radii longus and extensor carpi radialis iongior, except at the lower part, where it is simply covered by the deep fascia on which the radial artery lies. To its inner side is the flexor digitorum profundus. This muscle is a flexor of the last phalanx of the thumb, a powerful and important muscle in grasping objects. 2. Flexor communis digitorum profundus perforans. (M.perforans, Scemm. M. cubito- phalangettien commun, Chauss.) arises tendi- nous from the front of the ulna immediately below the insertion of the brachialis anticus into the tubercle of that bone, and from the same as low down as the pronator quadratus ; also from the interosseous ligament. It becomes tendinous on its anterior face about the middle of the "ore-arm, thus presenting a smooth and polished surface to the muscles in front of it: like the superficial flexor, it forms its four tendons, which, after traversing the palm of the hand and piercing the split tendons of the superficial flexor, are ultimately inserted into the third phalanx of each of the fingers. This muscle has the flexor longus pollicis to its outer side; the flexor carpi ulnaris to its inner; and the flexor carpi radialis, flexor com- munis digitorum sublimis and palmaris longus, anterior to it. To flex the fingers on the hand, commencing with the flexion of the last phalanx on the others, and the whole hand on the fore-arm, constitutes the principal action of this muscle. 3. Pronator quadratus, Scemm. (Cubito- radial, Chauss.) This muscle, entirely covered by those mentioned above, presents a beauti- ful appearance on their removal, from the ten- dinous surface admitting by its transparency the colour of the muscle to shine, as it were, through it. It arises from the ulna about an inch and a half above the wrist-joint, occupying exactly that extent of the surface of the bone with its attachments : it is inserted fleshy into the lower part of the radius. This muscle, simple as its action appears, that of rolling the radius over the ulna, per- forms a most important part in those easy mo- tions of the hand which the artist uncon- sciously produces when he is engaged sketching in bold and flowing lines the subject of his picture. To the surgeon a knowledge of the attach- ments of this muscle is peculiarly important, for in those cases in which the radius is frac- tured near its lower extremity it draws the injured bone into the field of the flexor tendons, and by bringing it into close contact with the ulna, produces a deformity which great care will alone obviate. Posterior antebrachial region.—If we now look to the posterior part of the fore-arm, we shall find that though it may be divided into radial and ulnar sections like the anterior, the propor- tions between them will be very different; for one- fifth of the transverse diameter of the arm alone can be correctly allotted to the radial region in the upper part, and two-fifths close to the wrist- joint. The line of demarcation between these two regions is accurately formed in the dissected arm by the radial edge of the extensor com- munis digitorum. This muscle, like those on the anterior surface of the arm, is wide and muscular above, tendinous and comparatively narrow below; and hence we find the radial section wider below than it is above. In the ulnar section, we have the extensor communis digitorum to the outer side; in contact with this muscle, on its ulnar side, is the extensor carpi ulnaris. This muscle, at its origin at the upper part of the arm, is narrow, and the space, thus yielded as it were by its form, is occupied by the anconeus, which forms the boundary of this region on the ulnar side. The space left at the lower part of the arm, from the divergence of the tendons of the extensor carpi ulnaris and extensor communis digitorum, permits a view of the indicator. The radial section contains at its upper part solely the extensor carpi radialis brevior; but at the upper part of the middle of the arm, we have sliding into it from behind the extensor communis digitorum, the extensor ossis meta- carpi pollicis, and extensor primi internodii pollicis. These pursue their course obliquely across the radial section till they reach the outer edge of the arm. Lower down than these muscles and scarcely in contact with their inferior edges, we discover the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis likewise emerging from beneath the extensor communis digitorum. a. Superficial muscles of the posterior anti- brachial region. — 1. Anconeus (epicondylo- cubital, Chauss.) though usually described as a distinct muscle, is, in reality, a continuation