FEMORAL ARTERY. 235 The fat of the duck and the turkey nearly esembles the above. 11. Among insects, peculiar kinds of fat iave been obtained from ants, and from the ochini nl insect. The latter has been examined >y Pelletier and Caventou. (Ann. de Ch. et 'hys. viii. 271.) It is obtained by digesting iruised cochineal in ether, evaporating and re- issolving the residue in alcohol, till it remains ipon evaporation in the form of colourless iearly scales, insipid and inodorous, and fusible t 104°. 12. Under the term adipocere, we have else- where described a species of fatty matter which ppears to result from the slow decomposition f fibrine; and in some diseased states of the iody, a large proportion of the flesh occasion- lly puts on the appearance of fat. In the i>rmer case, it has been supposed that the pro- luct is the fat originally existing in the body, which, during the putrefaction of the other larts, has become acidified, that is, converted nto margaric, stearic, and oleic acids; and bat these acids are more or less saturated by lie ammonia which is at the same time gene- [Ued, and by small quantities of lime and nagnesia resulting from the decomposition of ertain salts of those earths pre-existing in the nimal matter. This view of the nature of adi- locere appears so far correct; but the quantity >f the altered fatty matter which was found in he cases alluded to, and in others where heaps •I refuse flesh have been exposed to humid pu- refaction, is sometimes such as to render it lighly probable that a portion of the fatty natter is an actual product of the decay, and ot merely an educt or residue. In regard to the apparent morbid conver- ion of muscle into fat in the living body, Jerzelius observes that, because the muscles iecome white, it has been assumed that they re actually converted into fat, but that the ppearance depends solely upon the absence f red blood, for the muscles under such ircumstances do not lose their power of mo- ion. The truth is that, in these cases, the ccumulation of fat goes on to such an extent i the interstitial cellular membrane of the ruscular fibre, as gradually to occasion its lmost entire absorption, and such of the mus- ics as undergo this change gradually lose leir contractile powers. Two mutton-chops, fhich have undergone this change, and in .Inch the altered muscle and the ordinary ex- jrnal layer of adipose membrane are quite dis- nct, are preserved in the Museum of the "ollege of Surgeons, and there is a printed amphlet giving an account of the symptoms nder which the sheep laboured. What may e the chemical peculiarities of the fat depo- ited among the fibres, as compared with the rdinary fat, has not been ascertained. The above is an enumeration of such of the arieties of animal fat as have been chemically xamined. In their general characters they losely resemble the corresponding compounds f the vegetable kingdom ; and, with the exeep- ons specified, the process of saponification Fects upon them very similar changes : thev are also similarly acted on by the acids. Some of them seem to afford distinct products when subjected to destructive distillation, and during the decomposition of whale oil for the produc- tion of carburetted hydrogen for the purposes of gas illumination, a variety of binary com- pounds of hydrogen and carbon, with some other products, are obtained, the nature of which has been ably investigated by Professor Faraday. • ( W. T. Brande.) FEMORAL ARTERY (arteria cruralis; Germ, die Schenkelarterie). The femoral ar- tery is the main channel through which the lower extremity is supplied with blood : in an extended sense it might, with propriety, be understood to comprehend so much of the artery of the extremity as is contained within the thigh, intermediate to those of the abdo- men and the leg; but the variety in the situ- ation and relations of that vessel in different stages of its course is so great that it has been distinguished into two, the proper femoral and the popliteal; the former appellation being applied to so much of the vessel as is situate in the superior part of the limb, and the latter to that portion which is contained in the lower, in the popliteal region. The comparative ex- tent of the two divisions of the artery differs considerably, the femoral predominating much in this respect, and occupying two-thirds of the thigh, while the popliteal occupies but one; hence the particular extent of each may be exactly defined by dividing the thigh, longi- tudinally, into three equal parts, of which the two superior will appertain to the former, and the inferior to the latter. The proper femoral artery, then, engages the two superior thirds of the main artery of the thigh, continued from the external iliac artery above, and into the popliteal below. It emerges from beneath Poupart's ligament into the thigh, external to the femoral vein, and on the outside of the ilio-pectineal eminence of the os innominatum, and it passes into the popliteal region below through an aperture cir- cumscribed by the tendons of the adductor niagnus and vastus internus muscles. Its course is oblique from above downward, and from before backward, corresponding to a line reaching from a point midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the symphysis pubis upon the front of the limb above, to another midway between the two condyles of the femur, on the posterior aspect of the bone below. Its mean direction is straight, or nearly so, corresponding to the line which has been mentioned, or, according to Harrison,-)- to a line drawn from the centre of Poupart's ligament to the inner edge of the patella; but its course is, for the most part, more or less serpentine, the vessel forming as it descends curvatures directed inward and outward. The presence and degree of these curvatures, however, are influenced very much * Phil. Trans. 1825. t Surcic.il Anatomv of the Arteries, vol. ii. p. 137.