909 INSECTA. the clypeus posteriorly, which is reduced to a small triangular plate (rf) with its apex directed backwards. It is divided by a transverse suture from the clypeus anterior, which forms a chief part of the front of the head. The labium (e), as in the preceding species, is short and pointed, the mandibles (J ) are long and setiform, but larger than the maxilla (g), and the lingua (*), according to Savigny's observations, forms a short trifid process within the cavity of the mouth, at the base of the maxilla, the covering or sheath to the parts being formed, as in the other species, by the labium. In Homoptera, which are considered by many naturalists as constituting only a division of the Hemiptera, the general form of the head is that of a triangle, the lateral and basilar angles of which are occupied by the protu- berant cornea. In the Cicadiida the epicra- nium is short but exceedingly wide, bearing at its sides on distinct pedicles the large project- ing cornea similar to the pedunculated eyes of Diopsis, one of the Diptera. The epicranial suture is most distinctly marked. It passes outwards from the middle line on each side behind a large, convex, transversely striated protuberance on the front, which is the proper clypeus posterior, as far as the base of the pedunculated corneae, where the antenna are inserted immediately in front of it. The ocelli, three in number, arranged in a triangle, are placed on the most vertical part of the epicra- nium, and the suture passes through the ante- rior one. The clypeus anterior is a short triangular plate, united by suture to the anterior margin of the clypeus posterior. It has usually been described as the labrum. The proper lubrum is a small pointed corneous plate, which covers the base of the proboscis in front, and is freely articulated to the margin of the clypeus. It has been figured by Messrs. Kirby and Spence* as an appendage to the labrum (appen- dicula), which, as just shown, is the clypeus anterior. It is often partially concealed beneatli the clypeus. The mandibles and maxilla are usually strong corneous seta, contained within the sheath formed by the labium. At the base of the maxilla, concealed by the labium, are twoshort membranaceous appendages, which are probably the rudimentary maxillary palpi. They are attached to the external under surface of the maxilla, and are entirely concealed by the labium. In the Fulgorida, as in Fulgora candelaria, the epicranial region constitutes the greater portion of the head. The large curved process or horn on the front is derived entirely from the epicranium. The cornea, which are remarkably protuberant, are included within the same region at the sides of the head, as also are the two ocelli, which are placed one on each side immediately before the cornea. The antenna present a remarkable character, being formed of three short thick joints, ter- minated by a minute setaceous one. The third joint, which is nearly globular, is covered with minute protuberances, somewhat resembling the structure of the cornea, or rather that of " Introduct. vol. iii. pi. 6, fig. 7, a. the antenna in the males of Eucera longicornis. These organs are situated in deep fossa, into which the triangular suture enters. The clypeus posterior forms the chief portion of the front, as in the preceding family, the clypeus anterior a narrow plate united to the latter by suture, and the labrum a small triangular appendage. We have entered thus minutely into an examination of the parts of the head and mouth in the different orders of insects, in consequence of the uncertainty which has hitherto existed among naturalists with regard to the number of segments of which the head is normally com- posed, and also because it was necessary that we should first show the analogous parts of the head in the different orders before stating our opinions with regard to the manner in which they are developed; and further, because from the minuteness of the subjects and consequent difficulty of investigation, the most ample elucidation was necessary upon which to base our opinions. In our examination of the remaining parts of the skeleton the same minuteness will be of less consequence, because the parts are more easily examined, and have already been identi- fied through the excellent and elaborate investi- gations of Audouin, Macleay, and others. Developement of the head.—We have seen in our examination of the perfect insect, that the head is normally composed of four, and appa- rently even of five sub-segments, as is proved by the existence of the parts we have de- scribed, which correspond to the superior and inferior arches of that number. The fiust, or most anterior of these sub-segments, is formed by the labrum above and the ligula below ; the second, by the clypeus anterior and the men- turn; the third, by the clypeus posterior and submentum. But the fourth, which has be- come entirely atrophied, is represented above only by the little bones of the antenna, within the cranium, and perhaps also the cornea ; and below by that reduplicature of tegument which forms in some insects, as in Hydrous, the large transverse bone, or ridge between the submen- tum and anterior margin of the gula; while the fifth is formed by the epicranial region above, and the gula and broad basilar region below, the greater size of this sub-segment being the result of its confluence with the preceding one, the fourth, which has disappeared. The num- ber and position of these parts are precisely similar in the larva and the perfect insect, as seen in Coleoptera, Hymenoptera, and the ver- miform larva of Uiptera. In each of these instances the greater or less distinctness of the parts is in an inverse ratio to the more or less perfect organization of the individual. Thus, if we take, for example, the head of the larva of the common Chaffer-beetle, Melolonthu, the first, second, third, and fifth sub-segments are very distinct, and the antenna, inserted at the angles of a strongly marked triangular suture, indicate the situation of the fourth atrophied sub-segment. But in the perfect beetle, as we have formerly seen, not only have all these se- parate parts of the larva become confluent, but their previous existence as distinct pieces is