363 FORE-ARM. Of the different morbid growths which arise in the cellular tissue of the fore-arm, those ■which are superficial and those which are beneath the fascia require careful distinction, the removal of the former being easily effected, while all operations on the latter require great consideration and care. The superficial tumour projects under the skin, creating some deformity; it may be moved with facility, for its attachments are loose; while, on the other hand, the deep- seated or sub-fascial tumour has frequently a flat- tened surface, and often appears, on superficial examination, insignificant and of small extent, while in fact its mass is considerable, bur- rowing deeply between the muscles. It is to be distinguished from the supra-fascial tumour by its comparative immobility, by the various effects produced upon it by the fascia when in a state of tension or relaxation, by the pain produced by pressure on nerves, or impediment to the circulation from pressure on the vessels. In the removal of the sub-fascial tumour the operator must call to mind the direction and relative position of the muscles in the neigh- bourhood of it, as the roots or under surface of these generally follow the interspace between the muscles, and are thus guided to a great depth among the vessels and nerves of the fore-arm. The same principles apply to the diagnosis and treatment of superficial and deep-sealed abscesses. The superficial abscess is less cir- cumscribed ; the matter is diffused without limit through the subcutaneous tissue ; from its position the absorption of the superincum- bent tissues takes place rapidly, the skin either giving way entirely without the aid of the surgeon, or else pointing at some particular spot indicates where the abscess lancet may be employed with advantage. The sub-fascial abscess, on the contrary, pro- ceeds slowly in many cases, and even insidiously, bound down by the unyielding fascia ; it tells us of its presence, in the first instance, rather by the constitutional disturbance which it rouses than any striking indications of local mischief. These abscesses are occasionally the consequence of inflammation commencing in the theca of the flexor tendons, and the bur- rowing of the matter upwards in the course of the tendons. The septa of the fascia, which have been described passing down between the muscles to the bone, limit the passage of the pus in different directions. The fascia itself is not much subject to disease, though it seems peculiarly disposed to slough as a consequence of phlegmonous ery- sipelas. Vessels.—The main arteries of the fore-arm are the radial and ulnar, into which the brachial artery divides just below the bend of the elbow. The brachial artery at this spot has on its outer side the tendon of the biceps ; on its inner side, one of the venae comites, the median nerve, and the pronator radii teres muscle. Behind the brachial artery is the brachialis anticus muscle, and in front of it the fascial insertion of the biceps muscle. The radial artery, which is the smaller of the two divisions, pursues nearly the same direction as the brachial, and in the lower part of the upper third of the fore-arm is found exactly midway between the radial and ulnar surfaces, overlapped by the supinator radii longus, and lying upon the tendon of the pronator radii teres muscle, with the radial nerve about a quarter of an inch to its outer side, and separated by fat and cellular mem- brane. From this point the radial artery descends towards the wrist-joint, and at the lower part of the upper half of the fore-arm quits the pronator radii teres, and passes on to the anterior surface of the flexor longus pollicis, having the flexor carpi radialis to its inner side. A little lower down, that is, at the upper part of the lower third, the vessel emerges from beneath the supinator radii longus muscle, and is covered only by the fascia. In its further course to the wrist-joint the flexor carpi radialis maintains its position on the inner side, to which the tendon of the supinator radii longus corresponds on the outer. The radial nerve no longer accompanies the vessel, for it has now slid under the supinator radii longus, and reached the posterior face of the arm. As the radial artery just above the wrist-joint is covered only by the fascia, and lies upon the bone, its pulsations are easily felt, and in con- sequence of its convenient situation is generally selected by the medical practitioner to ascertain the general state of the circulation. We should, however, always bear in mind the great variety both in size and distribution to which this vessel is liable, and take the precaution of at least examining the radial artery in both arms. The inner edge of the supinator radii muscle is a certain guide to the situation of this artery should the surgeon be required to secure it, and this should always be effected by two ligatures, as its free anastomosis below will certainly produce secondary hemorrhage if this precaution is neglected. As the nerve lies on the outer side of the artery, the needle must be passed from without inwards. The ulnar artery has a deep course, first passing beneath the median nerve, which se- parates it from the pronator radii teres muscle, next beneath the flexor digitorum sublimis, the two last muscles separating it from the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus, and upon the flexor digitorum profundus, and when it reaches the tendon of this muscle midway between the wrist and elbow-joints, it comes into contact with the ulnar nerve, by which it is separated from the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle on its inner side. In its further descent to the wrist-joint it is situated between the flexor communis digitorum sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris. Gradually sliding behind, the tendon of the latter remains covered by it for about two inches above the annular liga- ment of the wrist, in front of which it passes into the palm of the hand. The third branch worthy of mention in this division of the fore- arm is the anterior interosseal. This vessel