REGIONS OF THE FOOT. 3.55 so divides into external and internal plantar. The first of these, which is much the larger of the two, runs in a somewhat semicircular course, first forwards and outwards till it has reached the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and then winds round across the other metatarsal bones, till at that of the great toe it terminates by uniting with the anterior tibial. In this course it runs first between the superficial and deep muscles, viz. first covered by the abductor pollicis, then between the flexor brevis digitorum and the long flexor tendons; it then becomes more superficial, lying between the flexor digitorum brevis and the abductor minimi digiti; then in crossing back to the inner side of the foot, it runs deep under all the muscles and tendons, except the interossei. Thus this artery forms an arch, called the plantar arch, having its convexity forwards and outwards, its concavity inwards and backwards. The branches which it sup- plies in this course are, first, a number of large muscular branches before it reaches the outer side of the foot; then from the convexity of the arch itself, the digital arteries, one to each metatarsal space, which, dividing at the first joint of the toes, run one on each side of the toe to its termination ; and lastly, those from the upper and inner sides, being generally very insignificant muscular branches and communi- cating branches, these last going upwards between the metatarsal bones to anastomose with the metatarsal branches of the anterior tibial artery. It is right, however, to state that in this, as in every other part of the arterial system, great variety is occasionally found. The internal plantar artery is a com- paratively small artery, merely going to supply the muscles and integuments of the great toe, and for this purpose passes forwards along the under and inner side of the tarsus, covered by the abductor pollicis as far as the first phalanx of the great toe, where it divides into several branches, supplying both sides of the great toe, and the inner side of the second. The veins which accompany the plantar arteries are, like all deep-seated veins, two in number, one on each side of the artery, and they terminate in the hollow of the os calcis by forming the posterior tibial veins. The plantar arteries are accompanied also in their course by corre- sponding nerves, the termination of the poste- rior tibial nerve, which divides in the hollow of the os calcis. The internal plantar nerve, contrary to the order of the arteries, is the larger of the two ; it runs in company with the inner plantar artery, and sends branches to the three inner toes, and to the inner side of the fourth, while the external plantar nerve running the course of the corresponding artery is dis- tributed only to the fifth toe and outer side of the fourth. The lymphatics of the sole of the foot, like the rest of this system, are com- posed of a superficial and a deep set, the former collecting from all parts towards the inner ankle; the latter accompanying the plan- tar arteries and veins, and passing up also with them behind the inner ankle, go with the tibial veins to the ham. There are several synovial burste in this region which it is necessary here to mention. They are surrounding the tendons as they pass into the sole along the hollow of the os calcis, viz. the flexor longus pollicis and flexor longus digitorum. Their anatomical description has been already given (see Ankle, Region of). Another synovial sheath is surrounding the tendon of the peroneus longus as it obliquely crosses the sole to its insertion. This bursal cavity is situated close upon the bone, and under the principal ligaments. II. Plantar region of the toes.— Of the toes we observe that the integuments of the under part are always soft and pliable, com- pared with the rest of the integument of the sole, and possessing peculiarly the sense of touch ; that under the skin at the extremity of the toes there is a soft elastic cushion of cellular tissue, analogous to that at the tip of the fingers, and in this and in the cutis the extremity of the digital arteries and nerves is minutely ramified. The digital arteries them- selves, with their accompanying nerves and veins and absorbents, are running along the edges of this under surface of the toes. Lastly, the tendinous thecae, in which the flexor tendons are lying, are situated along the under surface of the phalanges of the toes, and are particularly attached to the sharp edges of these bones (see Foot, Joints of). They have a smooth synovial lining which prevents the effects of friction upon the tendons, and facilitates their movements. From the description which has now been given of the organization of the plantar region of the foot, we readily perceive, 1st, Why deep wounds of this part are both followed by considerable haemorrhage, and why this is at the same time very difficult to stop. The arterial branches are numerous and lie deep. Before we can get at them either to press upon or to tie them, we must do so through a thick integument, a dense tendinous fascia, and deep-seated layer of muscles. If we dilate the opening in all these parts we wound many more branches, while it is impossible at such a depth, and through such part, to discover the bleeding vessel, if the opening is small. We are, therefore, compelled in such a case, if pressure will not stop the haemorrhage, to tie the posterior tibial artery, either behind the ankle or at the lo wer third of the leg. But even this is sometimes not sufficient to stop the haemor- rhage, owing to the free anastomosis of the arteria dorsalis pedis with the plantar arteries; and we are then compelled also to tie the anterior tibial. 2d, We see why inflammation and suppuration in these parts, whose parietes as well as contents are in great measure ten- dinous, are threatening both in their present symptoms and in their consequences. Not only is the ready detection of suppuration pre- vented, but the efforts of nature to bring it to the surface are resisted. The inflamed parts are bound tight; if matter has formed, it is obliged to burrow laterally, in contact with nerves, arteries, tendons, &c. The inflamma- tion spreading to the synovial sheaths either impairs or destroys the movements of the 2 a 2