898 INSECTA. Fig. 375. Anterior and inferior views of the mouth and head of Antliophora return. A, antenna ; b, epicranium and ocelli; c, cor- nea •, d, clypeus anterior ; e, labrum ; f, mandi- ble ; g, the maxilla; h, its palpus; i, feeler- bearer or part of the ligula; It, labial palpus ; /, mentum; m, sub-mentum; 1, cardo of the maxilla ; 2, stipes ; 5, the lacinia or blade ; *, ligula; **,pa- raglosscB, its lateral lobes. daceous genera, the Tenthredinida and Ves- pida, the clypeus posterior seems to have be- come entirely obliterated, unless we regard the broad clypeus in these insects, as in the Hornet, the posterior one, and the plate concealed be- neath it, within the mouth, to which the labrum is attached, as the anterior. But we are not inclined to do this, because in some of the Ichneumonida and Sphecida a trace of the clypeus posterior remains a little anterior to the antennae. In Ichneumon Atropos the clypeus is narrowed and depressed in its middle, as if originally formed of two parts, while in Ammo- phila vulgaris the clypeus posterior is clearly indicated as a minute triangular plate situated in the middle line, immediately beneath the insertion of the antennae, and it exists in a similar form in some of the Apidct, as in the large female Bombus lapidarius, and in some specimens of Anthophora, the clypeus posterior being in all instances bounded by a trace of the triangular suture. The labrum (c) is always distinct, but variously formed. In Vespida it is narrow, acute, and hidden beneath the ante- rior clypeus; in the leaf-cutting bees, Mega- chile, it is narrow and quadrate; but in the hive and humble-bees it is large, and rounded at its anterior margin. The mandibles are sub- ject to considerable variation of form.* In * See Essay on Fossorial Hymenoptera, by W. E. Shuckard, p. 12, et seq. some, as in Ammophila, which burrows in the sand, they are long, hooked, and furnished with but a single tooth at the apex, without cutting edges; and they are of somewhat the same form in Anthophora (fig. 375,/), whose habits of life in this respect are similar. In the Vespidie, which gather the materials for their nests by rasping off little packets of fibres from decaying wood, they are broad, triangular, and armed along their edges with strong teeth; and such is also their structure in Anthidium mani- catum, which scrapes off the down from the woolly stems and leaves of plants for the same purpose; while, in the hive-bee, which em- ploys them in moulding the soft wax in the construction of the combs, they are shaped at the apex like a spoon, without indentations; their form in each instance being thus dis- tinctly referable to the habits of the insects. In the gregarious species there is also a dif- ference in their form in the two sexes, those of the males being often smaller and less curved than of the females, or workers, and they are always, particularly in the Bombi, more densely covered with hairs. In the whole of the Terebrantia, Pupophaga, and some of the Aculeata the mandibles are still the chief cibarian organs; the Athalia em- ploys them in masticating the pollen of flowers, and the maxillae and labium in sipping the honey; while the omnivorous Formicidce and Vespidte employ them in tearing and masti- cating their food, whether it be the pulpy sub- stance of fruits, or the muscles and hard cover- ings of other insects. In the Apidce. the chief use of the mandibles is in constructing the nest, while the maxillae and labium are the only organs employed in taking food. In the strictly carnivorous families the maxilla are not longer than in the preceding Orders. In most of these, as well also as in the Terebrantia and Chri/sidida, the extremity of each maxilla is obtuse, and divided into a distinct lacinia and galea, and the palpi are long and six-jointed. In the Formicidce and Vespidce, which subsist upon fluid as well as solid aliment, their length is increased; but in the true Apidce, which subsist entirely upon honey, they are drawn out to a great length, and, with the labium be- neath, form a tube through which the aliment is conveyed to the mouth, as in the hive and humble-bees. In these species the cardo (1) is long, slender, and formed of two parls, which conjointly articulate with the stipes (2). The longest of these, the basilar portion, has two apophyses at its extremity, and is articulated with the anterior part of the base of the cra- nium, at the inner side of the articulation for the mandibles, exactly as in Coleoptera; and its muscles in like manner are attached to the lateral and inferior parts of the head and orbital plates. It is the lora, or lever of Kirby, which enables the insect, by the additional articula- tion of its second part with the sub-mentum, to thrust out the maxillae and labrum together to a great distance. The part that articulates with the sub-mentum, the proper cardo of Kirby, is very short in Bombus lapidarius, but of consi-