HEARING. 574 the malleus regulates the membrana tympani, increases its tension, and thus limits the extent of the excursions of its vibrations. The con- traction of the stapedius muscle causes the base of the stapes to compress the membrane of the fenestra ovalis to a greater or less extent, so that the degree of tension of that membrane depends on the condition of this muscle. Compression exerted upon the membrane of the fenestra ovalis extends to the perilymph and through it is propagated to the membrane of the fenestra rotunda, and in this way the same apparatus which regulates the tension of the membrane of the fenestra ovalis performs that office for that of the fenestra rotunda, and Savart has devised a little apparatus which very prettily illustrates the manner in which this may take place. In a disc of wood (« b, fig. 265) of a sufficient Fig. 265. thickness, he hoi- ^ lows out two ca- vities, o and r, f r \ which commu- f ( o \r."=_n—J J nicate at their i J bottoms with & each other by a ^ narrow canal (c) ■ hollowed in the wood, but not open on its sur- face ; a thin membrane is extended over each of the cavities. Thus, the air contained in these cavities may pass easily from one to the other, and may always maintain the same degree of elastic tension in both. If, then, a vibrating glass be brought .near the mem- brane r covered with a layer of sand, it will be found to enter freely into vibration, as evinced by the active movements of the grains of sand. If now pressure be made with the finger on o, r will become convex in propor- tion as o is rendered concave by the pressure, and when in this state, the movements of the sand will be much less considerable than be- fore, presenting an effect precisely similar to that produced on the tympanic membrane by an increase of tension. Thus, the extent of the excursions of the vibrations of the mem- brane r is limited by the pressure exerted upon o, and as the membranes of the two fenestras are related to each other in an analogous man- ner, we may argue that pressure upon the larger one, that of the fenestra ovalis, will occasion tension of the smaller, that of the fenestra rotunda, thereby limiting the extent of the excursions of its vibrations. Moreover it appears, upon reference to the anatomy of these parts, (see fig.252, p. 550,) that the only muscles which have been satisfactorily demonstrated are tensors of the tympanum; and that at whatever extremity of the chain of ossicles muscular effort be first exerted, a correspond- ing effect will be produced at the other ; that when the stapedius muscle acts, the malleus is thrown into a position favourable to the tension of the membrana tympani, and, on the other hand, the contraction of the internus mallei depresses the stapes, and consequently in- creases the tension of the membranes of the two fenestra. The cessation of muscular action restores all three membranes to their original laxity, nor does it appear that they admit of any further degree of relaxation through the influence of any vital process. The incus forms a bond of connexion between the two other bones, and its motions depend entirely upon theirs in consequence of its articulation with both, while from the fixedness of its con- nexion with the mastoid cells, as well as its intermediate position, and its not having any muscles inserted into it, it is obvious that its motions must be much more limited than those of the other bones. Its use seems to be to complete the chain in such a way, that by reason of its double articulation with the mal- leus on the one hand and the stapes on the other, the tension of the tympanic membranes may be regulated without any sudden or vio- lent motion, which could scarcely be avoided were the conductor between the membranes of the tympanum and fenestra ovalis one piece of bone. But whence the necessity of at all adding to the ear this complex apparatus of tympanum and tympanic membrane, and why might not the sonorous impressions have been made di- rectly upon the membranes which close the openings to the labyrinth ? Upon this point Savart has offered a conjecture which seems to afford the most probable explanation as to the true object of these parts. If the membranes of the fenestra, he says, had been in imme- diate contact with the atmosphere, their elastic state would have been constantly undergoing changes, under the influence of the vicissitudes of temperature of the air, a circumstance which would, in all probability, impair the power of the organ in detecting differences of sounds. He presumes therefore that the membrana tym- pani prevents this contact of the atmosphere with the membranes of the labyrinth, and that the cavity of the tympanum and the mastoid cells form a kind of receptacle in which the air, which finds its way into the tympanum through the Eustachian tube, acquires the con- stant temperature of the body, and establishes in front of the openings of the labyrinth a sort of atmosphere proper to themselves, the tem- perature of which does not vary. This same acute observer remarks that the size of the membrana tympani in all proba- bility, in the different species of animals, exerts much influence upon the number of sounds which they can perceive, and at the same time upon the limits at which those sounds begin or cease to be audible. Were the tympanic membrane in man of greater size than it is, there is no doubt that instead of beginning to hear sounds which result from about thirty vibrations in a second, we should be able to hear only sounds of a higher pitch. Moreover it may be reasonably presumed that animals who have the membrana tympani much larger than that of man, hear much graver sounds than those which result from thirty vibrations in a second ; and, on the other hand, there must be other animals who hear very acute sourds only. Even in the human species, we observe in