494 GLOSSO-PIIARYNGEAL NERVE. Lastly, The laws in obedience to which the glands are developed, are as universal as to their existence in the animal kingdom, as those which regulate the formation of the nervous, osseous, and vascular systems; and thus it may be noticed that the complex glands of man and the mammalia, such as the parotid, the pancreas, and the liver, pass, in the various epochs of their development, through those forms, which in the lower animals, and espe- cially in the invertebrated tribes, constitute the permanent structure. It may also be stated, that when any particular gland first appears in the animal series, it presents the most simple structure, although the same gland in the higher classes acquires the highest degree of complexity. Thus, the liver in insects is tu- bular, and in many of the amphibia excavated into large cells; the pancreas in fishes consists of separate tubuli; the salivary glands of birds are extremely simple; so also are the mam- mary glands in the Cetacea, and the prostate glands in many of the Mammalia. Bibliography. — Malpighi, De vise, struct, cap. iii. p. 18, et alibi ; De format. Pulli in ovo, p. 20. Ruysch, Opera omnia, torn. iii. Holler, Elem. Phys. ii. Ferrein, Mem. de l'Acad. Roy. des Sc. 1749. Cuvier, Lei;ons d'Anat. Comp. torn, iv. Rolando, Journ. Comp. des Sc. Med. torn. xvi. The Treatises of Bichat, Meckel, and Beclard on Gen. Anat. Miiller, De gland, secernent, struct, penit. Handb. der Phy. I. Band. p. 418. Trans, of ditto by Baly, vol. i. p. 441. Burdach, Phy. II. Band. edit. 1837, pp. 258, 264, 287, 376, 375, et alibi. This volume contains a large collection of the most important facts relative to the deve- lopment of the several organs, V. Band. p. 36 et seq. Kiernan in Phil. Trans. 1833. Valentin, Handb. der Entwickelungs-geschichte, pp. 495, 514, 521, 533. Boer, De ovo Mammal., and in Burdach's Phy. Cants, Anat. Comp. par Jour- dan, torn. ii. Grant's Lect. on Comp. Anat. in Lancet, 1833-34. Blumenbach, Man. of Comp. Anat. by Coulson. Berres, Die Mikroskopischen Gebilde des Menschlichen Kbrpers. (R. D. Grainger.) GLOSSO - PHARYNGEAL NERVE (nervus glosso-pharyngeus; part of the sixth pair of Galen and the older anatomists ; part of the eighth pair of Willis ; the ninth pair of Soemmerring and some of the modern anato- mists). The glosso-pharyngeal, par vagum, and spinal accessory nerves were long considered as forming a single nerve. Willis first clearly pointed out the origin and course of the spinal accessory, separated it from the par vagum, and termed it the nervus accessorius. The glosso- pharyngeal appears to have been generally de- scribed at the time of Willis as a branch of the par vagum. The term glosso-pharyngeal was not applied to it until the time of Huber* Previous to the time of Willis, however, some anatomists, more particularly Fallopius,t Eu- (1. c. p. 517.) Similar observations have been made in other animals and in the human embryo by Meckel. * Epistola Anat. de Nervo Intercostali, De Nervis Octavi et Noni Paris, &c. p. 17. Goet. 1744. f Opera quae adhuc existant omnia, p. 455. Francof. stachius,* Bauhinus,f had shown that this nerve was really not a mere branch of the par vagum. The same thing was stated, more or less strongly, by many subsequent anatomists, more particu- larly by Winslow,]; Haller,§ and Vicq D'Azyr.|| Soemmerringlf and Andersch** were, how- ever, the first who fairly separated the glosso- pharyngeal from the par vagum, and ranked it as a distinct nerve. The glosso-pharyngei form the ninth pair of Soemmerring's classification of the encephalic nerves, and were termed the eighth pair by Andersch. There can be no doubt that if we adopt the numerical method of naming these nerves, the glosso-pharyngei properly form the ninth pair. To avoid, how- ever, all the misunderstanding which is apt to arise from the use of numerical names when applied to these nerves, the best designa- tion for the nerve at present under our conside- ration is the glosso-pharyngeal, derived from its being principally distributed upon the tongue and the pharynx. I need scarcely state that, under the term eighth pair, as it is most gene- rally used in modern writings, is included the glosso-pharyngeal, par vagum, and spinal ac- cessory nerves, ff Origin.—The glosso-pharyngeal nerve arises by from two to six filaments from the restiform body of the medulla oblongata, closely upon the groove which separates the restiform from the olivary body. At its origin it is placed im- mediately above and in the same line with the par vagum nerve, and between it and the portio dura of the seventh pair. lis lower margin is generally separated from the upper margin of the par vagum by a few small bloodvessels. From its origin it first proceeds outwards along with the par vagum and spinal accessory to reach the foramen lacerum posterius. Through the anterior and inner part of this foramen it escapes from the interior of the cra- nium, and is enclosed in a strong and separate sheath furnished by the dura mater.JJ In its passage through the foramen lacerum it is placed anterior to the par vagum and spinal accessory and the commencement of the inter- * Explicatio Tabularum Anatomicarum Eusta- chii, tab. xviii. Bat. 1744. t Theatrum Anatomicum, cap. xxiii. p. 659. Francof. 1605. \ Exposition Anatomiqne de la Structure du Corps Humain, torn. iii. p. 106. Amstel. 1743. $ Elementa Physiol, torn. iv. cap. xxix. p. 231-2. Laus. 1562. || Traite d'Anatomie et de Physiologie avec des planches coloriees, etc. No. iii. p. 56. Paris, 1786. If De Basi Encephali et Originibus Nervorum, &c. in torn. ii. p. 97. Ludwig. Script. Neurol. Sel. Min. 1792. ** Fragmentum Descrip. Nerv. Cardiac, in torn, ii. Ludwig. Sc. Neur. Sel. Min. p. 113. ft Those who may wish to examine at greater length the literature of this nerve may consult Soemmerring Oper. Cit. p. 97, and more particu- larly Kilian Anatomische Untersuchungen iiber dasneunte Himnervenpaar oderden Nervus Glosso- pharyngeus, p. 1-62. Pesth, 1822. |t According to Morgagni (Adversar. Anat. vi. Animad. xii.) and Wrisberg (De Nervis Pharyn- gis, in torn. iii. p. 52. Ludwig. Script. Neur. Sel. Min.) this septum separating the glosso-pharyn- geal from the par vagum is sometimes osseous.