424 GENERATION. seminal glands, the latter embedded in the erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum. The muscular portion does not always join the vas- cular part in a straight line ; but, on the con- trary, in some animals, as in Ruminants gene- rally and in the Boar, the former opens by an orifice perforated in the upper wall of the latter, at a little distance from its commence- ment, so that a c ul-de-sac is left excavated in the bulb of the urethra or commencement of the spongy portion, in which the fluids poured into the muscular part are mixed with the se- cretion of Cowper's glands, which enters the sides of the excavation. In Squirrels and Marmots a similar cul-de- sac exists, which only receives the secretion of Cowper's glands, and is continued forwards as a narrow tube surrounded by vascular tissue, beneath the urethra, as far as the middle of the penis, where the two canals unite. The course of the urethra in the great Kan- garoo (Macropus major) is peculiar; instead of passing, as is usually the case, beneath the corpus cavernosum, it is inclosed in a canal passing through the centre of the penis, from which it only emerges at the extremity of the glans; owing to this arrangement, the spongy investment of the canal is in this animal con- founded with the vascular tissue of the corpus cavernosum. In others of the Marsupiata the corpus spon- giosum, like the cavernous body, arises by two crura, which are quite unattached, each being invested with a strong muscular sheath, and even in some placental Mammals, as the Water- rat and the Camel, rudiments of this division are distinguishable. The glans penis, or extremity of the intro- mittent organ, presents many modifications in form and in the nature of its surface. It is frequently smooth and highly sensible, as in man, being only covered by a delicate skin; yet in other instances, as in the feline Carni- vora, it is armed with stiff recurved bristles ; sometimes the armature represents horny scales or strong spines, and in not a few genera we find horny serrated plates projecting from its surface; and, as though these formidable saws were insufficient, they are occasionally com- bined with horny prongs protruded from the extremity of the penis during its erection. These last appendages are found in various families of the Rodentia, as in Guinea-pigs and Agoutis. The limits of this article will not permit us to expatiate further on this part of our subject; we must therefore refer the reader for a description of the various forms of the penis and of the muscles belonging to that organ to the articles which treat of the Mam- miferous orders individually. The female Mammalia exhibit in their gene- rative system a beautiful gradation of struc- ture. They naturally divide themselves in conformity with their mode of gestation into two classes, viz. the Ovo-vivipara or Marsu- piata, and the Viviparu, properly so called, comprising the placental orders. The former division approximates in every particular to the oviparous type of structure : the ovaria are racemose, as in birds; the ovi- ducts, which now assume the name of uteri, are still double, opening by distinct orifices into the vagina, which also is not unfrequently di- vided. But the great feature which distin- guishes the ovo-viviparous mammals is the peculiar apparatus in which gestation is com- pleted, the embryo being expelled from the uterus at a very early period, without ever con- tracting any vascular connexion with that organ, to be lodged in a marsupium or pouch con- nected with the abdomen of the mother, in which the nipples are contained. In this situ- ation it becomes attached by its mouth to one of the teats, and thus derives from the mam- mary secretion the nourishment essential to its growth.—See Marsupiata. In the Placental division gestation is com- pleted within the uterine cavity by the deve- lopment of a vascular mass of different con- struction in different classes, called the Pla- centa. The ovaria here gradually lose their racemose appearance, and are converted into small and solid masses, in which the ova or Graafian vesicles are evolved. The uterus, at first completely divided, as in some of the Rodentia, in which the two cornua open se- parately into a single vaginal canal, by degrees unites, and by a progressive coalescence attains that concentration most perfectly exhibited in the human female. To enter more largely into details connected with the generative organs of the Mammiferous classes would needlessly swell the bulk of this article, in which our object has been to lay before the reader a connected view of the mo- difications met with in the reproductive system throughout the animal kingdom, and thus to connect with each other the numerous facts relating to this subject which are elsewhere more minutely recorded in this work. For the anatomy of the Organs of Generation in Man, see PENIS, PROSTATE, TESTIS, VESlCUL^E SEMINALES. ( T. Rymer Jones.) GENERATION (in Physiology) generatio; Fr. generation; Germ. Zeugung; Ital. gene- razione;) is the process by which the young of living bodies are produced, and their spe- cies continued. In common language the term is frequently confined to the mere act of union of the sexes of animals; but in general and animal physiology it is generally employed in the more extended signification given to it in the following article, viz. to denote the assem- blage of all the functions of animals concerned in the formation of their young, and as syno- nymous, therefore, with the function of Repro- duction. In directing our attention to the mode in which the function of reproduction is effected in various classes of animals, so many striking differences present themselves, that we find it difficult if not impossible to point out any general circumstances in respect to which they all agree. Some animals, for example, are propagated by the division of their whole bodies into pieces, each of which by a pecu-