FACE. 207 Menschen und der Thiere, 1 Heft. Bremen, 1828. Wardrop's Morbid anatomy of the eye. Dalrymple's Anatomy of the eye, Lond. 1834. Mackenzie, On diseases of the eye, Lond. 1834. Lloyd, On light and vision, Lond. 1831. Biot, Precis elementaire d« physique, Paris, 1824. Langenbeck, B. C. R. De retina, Gott. 1836. Berzelius, Traitede chimie, Paris, 1833. Ammon, Zeitschrift fur die oph- thalmologic. Radius, Scriptores ophthalmologic! minores. Reils, Archiv. fiir die physiologie. Meckel's Archiv. F. Arnold, Untersuchungen iiber das auge des menschen, Heidelberg, 1832. Giralde, Sur ['organization de l'ceil, Paris, 1836. For the latest observations on the retina, see Ehrenberg, Beobachtung iiber Structur des Seelenorgans, Ber- lin, 1836. For the comparative anatomy of the eye, which is still imperfect, I refer the student to the paper of Zinn in the Gottingen Commentaries, as above quoted ; Bidloo, De oculis et visu; the article on the eye in Haller's Elementa Physiologiae; Cam- paretti's observations; Home's papers in the Philo- sophical Transactions; Knox's Comparative ana- tomy of the eye ; Cuvier's Comparative anatomy ; J. Muller, Vergleichende Physiologie des Gesicht- sinnes; and, above all, to D. W. Sbmmering's book. For perfect systematic treatises on the anatomy of the eye, the student is referred to Zinn's well-known and highly valuable work, Arnold's work just quoted, and, in English, Mr. Dalrymple's treatise. (Arthur Jacob.) FACE (in anatomy) (Gr. nzaawrtov; Lat. fades, vultus, os; Tr.fuce; Germ. Antlitz, Gesicht; Ital. faccia).—In vertebrated animals this term is applied to denote the anterior part of the head, with which most of the organs of the senses are connected ; while the cranium is destined to contain and protect the encephalic organs, the face is the seat of the organs of sight, smell, and taste, and in some animals of a special organ of touch. The relative sizes of cranium and face depend, therefore, in a great measure on the relative development of those important organs which belong to each. For the characters of the face in the different classes of animals, we refer to the articles devoted to the anatomy of them, and to the article Osseous System. Face (in human anatomy). The face is situated before and below the cranium, which bounds it above ; on the sides, it is limited by the zygomatic arches, behind by the ears and the depression which corresponds to the upper region of the pharynx, and below by the base of the lower jaw and the chin. The disposition pf the face is symmetrical; its anterior surface is trapezoidal, the largest side being above; and its vertical section is triangular. It pre- sents an assemblage of organs which serve dif- ferent purposes, and which by their configura- tion and proportions constitute what are called the features; individually the face presents many varieties, not only in the foim and degree of development of its several parts, as the nose, mouth, &c, but also in the condition of its bones, muscles, skin, and adipose tissue. The varieties of form presented by the face afford some of the most distinctive characters of the different races of mankind. It differs also ac- cording to the age and sex of the individual; in the infant, the peculiarities depend princi- pally upon the disposition of the bones, and in particular on the absence of the teeth; but the soft parts have also their distinctions at this age, for while the fat is abundant, the muscles are but little developed, and hence the slightly marked features and the plump cheeks of infancy. In old age, again, the aspect of the face is the reverse of this, for not only do its thinness and the predominance of the muscles throw out the features, but the skin is covered with folds and wrinkles, from its own relaxation and the absence of fat, aided perhaps by the action of the muscles. The loss of the teeth, moreover, allows the lower jaw (when the mouth is closed) to be thrown in front of the upper, and thus the length of the face is dimi- nished, and a peculiar expression is imparted to the countenance. In women, (from the delicacy of the features and the abundance of the cellular tissue,) the face preserves the roundness of form, and something of the characteristics of childhood. Bones of the Face.—The bones of the face comprise all those of the skull which do not contribute to form the cavity for the brain; they inclose, either by themselves or in con- junction with the adjacent bones of the cranium, 1. the organs of three senses, viz. sight, smelling, and taste ; 2. the organs of mastica- tion and the orifices of the respiratory and digestive canals; 3. they give attachment to most of the muscles of expression. The face is divided into the upper or the fixed, and the lower or the moveable jaw, both of which are provided with teeth. The lower jaw is a single and symmetrical bone; the upper jaw, though formed of thirteen bones, consists principally of two, viz. the ossa maxillaria superiora, to which the others may be considered as additions, being attached to them immoveably, and forming altogether one large, irregular, and symmetrical piece, which constitutes the upper jaw. Of the fourteen bones which contribute to the face, two only are single or median ; the others are double, and form six pairs, viz. 2 ossa maxilla superioris; 2 ossa paluti; 2 ossa nasi; 2 ossa mala ; 2 ossa lachrymalia ; 2 ossa turbinata inferiora. The two single bones are, the vomer and the os maxilla in- serioris. The superior maxillary bones, (ossa maxil- luria superiora; Germ, die Obern Kinnbacken- beine oder Oberkiefer.) These bones, situated in the middle and front of the face, are of a very irregular figure; they are united below along the median line, and form together, the greater part of the upper jaw. Each has four surfaces, viz. i. a facial or anterior; 2. a posterior or zygomatic; 3. an internal or naso- palatine; 4. a superior or orbitur. The borders are three; 1. an anterior or naso-maxillary; 2. a posterior or pterygoid; 3. an inferior or alveolar. The facial surface presents from before backwards, 1. the fossa myrtiformis, a depres- sion situated above the incisor teeth, which gives attachment to the depressor labii superi- oris; 2. the canine ridge, which corresponds to the socket of the canine tooth, and which sepa- rates the myrtifoim from, 3. the canine (or the