126 ENTOZOA. according to the sex; the males rarely equal two lines in length ; the females attain to five lines (*fig. 73.) They are proportionally slen- der, white, and highly elastic. The Fig. 73. head is obtuse, and presents, ac- H« cording to the repeated observa- -a- Hm t'ons °f tne experienced Rudolphi, the three valvular papillae charac- teristic of the genus Ascaris; but other Helminthologists, who have failed in detecting this organization, refer the species to the genus Oxyuris. Besides the papillae the head presents a lateral, semi-obo- vate membrane on each side, the broader end being anterior. The body soon begins to grow smaller, and gradually diminishes to a su- bulate straight extremity in the female. In the male the posterior extremity is thicker, and is spirally inflected and terminates obtusely; the head is narrower than in the female. In the following tabular arrange- ment of the internal parasites of the Human body, they are disposed miculm- Ver' 'n c'asses to wn'cn they appear 7*NatZal resPectively to belong according to sixe 0f their organization. female.) ENTOZOA HOMINIS. Classis Psychodiaria, Bory St. Vincent. 1. Acephalocystis endogena, cui locus Hepar, cavum Abdominis, &c. 2. Echinococcus Hominis, Hepar, Lien, Omentum. Classis Polygastrica, Ehrenberg. 3. Animalcula Echinococci, Hepar, &c. in Echinococco abdita.* Classis Protelmintha. 4. Cercaria Seminis, Semen virile. 5. Trichina spiralis, Musculi voluntarii. Classis Sterelmintha. 6. Cysticercus cellulosa, Musculi, Cere- brum, Oculus. 7. Taenia Solium, Intestina tenuia. 8. Botkriocepalus latus, Intestina tenuia. 9. Poly stoma Pinguicola, Ovaria. 10. Distoma hepaticum, Vesica fellea. Classis Ccelelmintha. 11. Filaria Medinensis, Contextus cellu- losus. 12. Filaria oculi, Cavum Oculi. 13. Filaria bronchialis, Glandular bron- chiales. 14. Tricocephalus dispar, Coecum, Intes- tina crassa. 15. Spiroptera hominis, Vesica urinaria. 16. Strongylus gigas, Ren. 17. Ascaris lumbricoides, Intestina tenuia. 18. Ascaris vermicularis, Intestinum rec- tum. Anatomy of the Entozoa. Tegumentary System.—There are few spe- * These may be considered rather as the Para- sites of the Echinococcus than of the human sub- ject. cies of the Sterelmintha in which a distinct external tegumentary covering can be demon- strated. In the Cystic, Cestoid, and most of the Trematode worms, the parenchymatous substance of the body is simply condensed at the surface into a smooth and polished conum of a whitish colour, without any development of pigmental or cuticular layers. The various wrinkles and irregularities, which the super- ficies of these Entozoa frequently presents, result from the action of the contractile tissue of the corium : this substance, in the larger Taniee, begins to assume a fibrous disposition, and tears most readily in the longitudinal di- rection ; it can be more distinctly demonstrated as a muscular structure in the larger species of Trematoda. By maceration in warm water the rugae of the integument disappear; the smooth external surface, so well adapted to glide over the irregularities of a mucous mem- brane, is then distinctly demonstrated; and, when magnified, an infinite number of minute pores, variously disposed, are seen perforating the whole surface, especially in the Acantho- cephalous worms. It is these pores which, in the dead worm at least, allow a ready passage to the surrounding fluid into the interstices of the parenchyma, where it sometimes accumu- lates so as to swell out the body to three or four times its previous bulk; and it may be readily supposed, therefore, that the skin here performs some share in the nutrient functions, by absorbing a proportion of the mucous or serous secretions in which the Entozoa are habitually bathed. In the Acanthocephala the skin, which is but little extensible and friable, is united to the subjacent muscular fibres by means of a whitish spongy tissue which adheres to it most strongly opposite the dorsal and ventral longi- tudinal lines or canals. As, however, the skin is with difficulty changed by maceration, while the parts which it surrounds soon go into putrefaction, it can thus be easily separated and demonstrated as a distinct substance. It presents no definite fibrous structure under the microscope, and tears with equal facility in every direction. In a large Trematode worm, the Distoma clavatum, Rud., which infests the intestines of the Albicore and Bonito, the body is pro- tected by a crisp sub-diaphanous cuticle, re- sembling in its structure and properties that of the Echinorhynchus. A similar covering may be demonstrated very readily in the genus Linguatula, among the Calelminiha, and can be separated, but with more difficulty, from the subjacent mus- cles in the Ascarides. In the great Round- worm (Ascaris lumbricoides) the integu- ment is smooth and unctuous, is more exten- sible in the longitudinal than the transverse directions, tears with an unequal rupture like a thin layer of transparent horn, and preserves its transparency in solutions of corrosive sub- limate, alum, and in alcohol. In this species, in which the digestive canal is completely de- veloped, it is worthy of remark that the mi- croscope does not demonstrate pores in the cuticle, as in the external covering of the