862 INSECTA. thorax, which anteriorly covers the base of the head. Some exceptions exist to these charac- ters in the Bostricida and their congeners, which ought perhaps to be removed to another tribe. In the Lampyrida (glow-worms), (figs. 335 and 336), there is an example of a circum- Fig. 337. Fig. 335. Fig. 336. Male. Female. Lampyris rwctiluca, ( Glow-worm). stance not uncommon among insects, the pos- session of wings by the male sex and their entire absence in the female. The Ptinidte or death-watches, and other Xylophagous insects of this tribe, although small, are exceedingly destructive to furniture and the wood of houses; and the Bostricida and Scolytidtc to living trees. It is an insect of this family, Scolytus de- structor, that of late years has occasioned in- calculable mischief to the elms in St. James's Park and Kensington Gardens, and in the park at Brussels. So lately as the summer of 1836 nearly eighty fine elms were cut down at the latter place and its neighbourhood, in con- sequence of decay occasioned by this pest.* Another species S. pygmteus, which attacks the oak, has destroyed many thousands of young trees in the Buis de Vincennes.f Ano- ther genus, Tomicus typographus, was so de- structive in the Hartz Forest in Germany du- ring a series of years from the beginning of the last century to 1783, that the number of trees destroyed by it in that forest alone was calcu- lated at a million and a half.J In the third section, Pseudo-tetramera, WESTw.,the species have one false and four dis- tinct tarsal joints to their legs, with pulvilli or hairy cushion on their under surface, and the ante-penultimate joint is bilobed and broader than the others. The section is divided into two tribes. In the first tribe, Rhynchophora, (fig. 337), the head is elongated in the form of a snout or rostrum, at the extremity of which is the mouth, and at the sides are inserted the antenna which are usually geniculated and club-shaped. The larva? of these insects are generally apodal, and many species are exceedingly injurious to the blossoms of the apple, pear, and other fruit-trees. Both the larva and perfect indi- vidual of one minute species, well known as the " weevil," Culandra grunaria, closely al- lied to fig. 337, occasion immense losses in the storehouses of the factor by attacking and destroying his corn. The parent insect not * Trans. Ent. Society, vol. ii. p. xvi. f Annal. Soc. Ent. France. 1836, pp. xvi. and xxx. 1837, p. iv. % Latreille, Hist. Nat. torn. ii. Gmelin, A fa- hand, iiber die Wurmtroekniss. Lcipz. 1787. West- wood, Introduction, &c. vol. i. p. 352. Calandra longipes, male. only feeds upon the corn itself, but deposits a single egg in every grain, and the larva when hatched devours the whole excepting the husk. The second tribe, Longicomes, (fig. 338), Fig. 338. Cerambyx latipes. are known chiefly by the great length of the antenna?, which usually exceeds that of the whole body. Their mandibles are strong and pointed ; the body elongated and depressed ; and the prothorax, which is often tuberculated or spined, is narrower than the abdomen. Their larvae are short, thick, and apodal, and are furnished with strong mandibles, and live beneath the bark or in the wood of trees. The third tribe, Phytophaga, Kirby, is also composed of pseudo-tetramerous insects, with pulvilli on their tarsi, and is divided into two sub-tribes. In the first, Eupoda, the body is of an elongated oval form, the head is sunk deeply into a narrow prothorax, and the thighs of the posterior legs are greatly enlarged. In the second sub-tribe, Cyclica, the body is of a rounded or oblong oval (fig. 339), the base of the prothorax is narrower than that of the elytra, and the antenna?, which are of moderate length, are inserted widely apart from each