867 INSKCTA. Fig. 348. Deilephila elpenor, the Elephant Sphinx, or in a cell of the earth. The perfect insects fly very swiftly, and are mostly abroad at twilight. In the third section, Pomeridiana, which includes the silkworm-moths, the body is short and thick, proboscis in general very short, antennae tapering, and much pectinated or feathered in the males, and the wings, when at rest, deflexed and horizontal. The larva before changing incloses itself in a case, which in the Bombycida. is composed entirely of fine silk. In the fourth section, Nocturna, night-moths, the antennas are setaceous, the proboscis long and spirally convoluted, the palpi compressed and terminated abruptly by a minute joint, and the wings, when at rest, folded horizontally upon the abdomen. It is a larva of this section, Agrotis segeium, that of late years has been almost as injurious to the agriculturist by attack- ing the full-grown turnip as that of the saw- fly, Athalia, or the beetle, Haltica, by attack- ing the plant in the earliest stages of its growth. In the fifth section, Semidiurna, the body is slender, the antennas in general setaceous, the proboscis short, and the wings broad and ex- panded horizontally, as in the Geometrida, or deflexed and forming an angle with the body as in the PyralidtB. The sixth section, Vespertina, is composed of minute species, among which are the de- structive clothes-moths, Tineida. Order IX. DIPTERA. Wings two, membranous, naked, and si- tuated anteriorly to two minute pedunculated bodies (halteres), the analogues of the pos- terior wings in the preceding orders ; * meso- thorax very large, and forming nearly the whole of the thoracic region ; head rounded, distinct from the thorax ; mouth rostriform ; metamor- phosis complete ; pupa coarctate. Among the families of this extensive order are the Culicidte, gnats, the Asilidce (fig. 349) and Tabanidte, bloodsuckers, the (Est ride, gad-flies, and Muscida, common house-flies. In most of the families the larvae are active and * Kiiby and Spence, Introduction, &c, vol. ii. p. 354. Fig. 349. Asilus crabroniformis (Samouelle). apodal, or are furnished only with abdominal feet. It is doubtful whether any of them cast their skins during their growth. In most species it becomes the outer covering of the pupa. Order X. HOMALOPTERA. Wings two, or entirely absent; head sunk into the anterior part of the thorax, or divided from it only by a suture ; abdomen flat, broad, and obtuse; anus notched; claws large, biden- tate or tridentate ; metamorphosis complete : pupa coarctate. In this remarkable order, the forest-flies (fig. 350) and ticks, the larva is nourished, and un- Fig. 350. Hippobosca equina, the Forest-fly (Samouelle). dergoes its change into the pupa state within the abdomen of the parent, as was first noticed by Reaumur, by whom they were designated " spi- der-flies." Soon after the pupa is deposited, it becomes greatly enlarged, and equals in size the body of the parent. Reaumur found that its outer envelope or case is formed of the skin of the larva, as in the true Diptera, and he also succeeded in detecting within it the proper covering of the nymph. The type of the order, the forest-fly (fig. 350) is exceedingly trouble- some to horses in the summer, and abounds in the New Forest in Hampshire. Order XI. APHANIPTERA. Wings none ; body oval, compressed ; head small, rounded, and compressed; eyes simple, orbicular; thighs strong; posterior legs the longest; tarsi five-jointed. The Pulicida, fleas, undergo a complete metamorphosis. The larva is an active elon- gated worm, which spins itself a case or coc- coon, in which it becomes a nymph, and at the end of a few days assumes the perfect state. One species, Pule.v penetrans, is ex- ceedingly troublesome in the West Indies by introducing itself beneath the toe-nails or under the skin, where it occasions malignant ulcers. Most of the species are of diminutive size, and seldom exceed a line in length. Mr. Kirby, " 3 L 2