102 ENDOSMOSIS. just mentioned ; and finally, that the viscidity of the gum-water, containing two parts of gum to thirty-two of water, (density 1.023,) is twice as viscid as the solution of sugar employed. It seems that nothing more is wanting to these proofs of the fact that endosmosis does not depend on the mere viscidity of fluids. Nevertheless I shall cite another proof of this truth. The very singular fact I am about to mention will also prove that the septa employed exert a special influence on the direction in which endosmosis takes place. It is well known that, in separating water from alcohol by an organized animal or vege- table membrane, the endosmotic current flows from the water towards the alcohol. I employed oil-silk (taffetas go?nme) or silk covered with a layer of caoutchouc, which may be regarded as equivalent to a thin lamina of elastic gum, as the medium of separation between these two fluids. During the first thirty-six hours of the experiment, I observed an extremely slow en^ dosmotic current from the alcohol towards the water. After this period the endosmosis, with the same direction, became very rapid. This increase in the rapidity of the endosmosis I considered due to some alteration in the caout- chouc produced by the action of the alcohol, and in consequence of which it became more readily permeable. The endosmotic current, however, let it be observed, is always from the water towards the alcohol in this experiment, instead of being from the alcohol towards the water, as is constantly the case when the septum between the spirit and the water is formed by an organic, whether animal or vegetable, tissue. We have thus a clear demonstration of the great influence possessed by the septum upon the direction of the current of endosmosis. We have, also, in the instance just quoted, a proof that the different degrees of viscidity of two liquids plays no part in the production of this phenomenon. I would remark that the endos- motic current carrying the alcohol towards the watey athwart the septum of caoutchouc is ac- companied by a counter-current, which carries the water towards the alcohol through the same septum. I assured myself that the alcohol had received some addition of water; and yet it is well known that caoutchouc is impermeable to water; which would seem to say that the latter fluid could only have passed through the sep- tum of caoutchouc by becoming mingled with the alcohol occupying the molecular interstices of that substance. Once within these intersti- ces the alcohol attracts the water by the affinity of mixture, (afinite de mixtion) and enables it to penetrate the substance of the caoutchouc, which denies all access to water when it is pure. It is therefore to the state of commixtion within the capillary tubes of the septum that the two opposed fluids proceed the one towards the other with cross but unequal motions. The means I took to ascertain the fact of water having become mixed with the alcohol was simple enough : I set fire to a quantity of the fluid which had served for the experiment, and found that, after all the spirit had burned out, a considerable quantity of water remained, whilst the alcohol, previously to being so em- ployed, burned away entirely, leaving no water behind it. The theoretical views of Magnus in regard to endosmosis have been adopted by Berzelius in his Chemistry, and the idea upon which they are based has been reproduced by M. Poisson. To give a clear notion of this theory, let us sup- pose that a measure of salt water is separated from a measure of pure water by a permeable septum, a piece of bladder for example; the current of endosmosis, in this instance, will be from the pure water towards the salt, and for the following reason: in the salt water there are three attractions, namely, the attraction of the molecules of the water for one another; secondly, the attraction of the molecules of the salt for one another; and thirdly, the reciprocal attraction of the molecules of the water and of the molecules of the salt. The pure water on the opposite side of the septum again has no more than a single form of attraction, to wit, that of its particles for one another. The salt water subjected to three attractions will be moved, it may be imagined, with greater diffi- culty than the pure water, the molecules of which are obedient to but one attraction. Con- sequently, in the reciprocal attraction of these two fluids, the one, the molecules of which are the least subjected to attraction among them- selves, will make its way with greatest rapidity athwart the capillary conduits of the dividing membrane. This theory has a seducing aspect, but we shall find immediately that it is inapplicable to certain endosmotic phenomena presented by acids. I have shown above that it is not always to- wards the denser fluid that the endosmotic cur- rent is turned. Thus alcohol and ether are very much less dense than water, and yet it is towards these fluids of inferior density that water flows in endosmotic experiments. Alco- hol and ether have this in common with dense fluids generally, that they rise to a less height in capillary tubes than water. From this ob- servation I was led to imagine that the endos- motic current was always from the fluid having the greatest power of capillary ascension, to- wards the fluid having the least of this capa- city. It is true, indeed, as we have already seen, that alcohol proceeds by endosmosis to- wards water when the medium dividing them is caoutchouc. This would seem to say that alcohol would rise higher than water in capil- lary tubes of caoutchouc; and it is certain that caoutchouc has a greater attraction for alcohol than for water, inasmuch as the surface of India-rubber is much more readily wetted by alcohol than by water, which only adheres to it partially and imperfectly. This fact, there- fore, would not be in contradiction to my theory ; although I must confess that it is not reconcilable with certain endosmotic pheno- mena presented by the acids, as we shall imme- diately have occasion to perceive. In spite of this, however, I do not think I ought to pass