HIBERNATION. 772 f Essay on the Circulation, pp. 136-141. * Phil. Trans, for 1832. left the animal in this situation, in a cold atmo- sphere, to resume its lethargy. {SeeJig. 306.) I could now quietly convey the animal ready prepared, and place it in the field of the micro- scrope without disturbing its slumbers, and observe the condition of the circulation. In this manner 1 have ascertained that, although the respiration be suspended, the cir- culation continues uninterruptedly. It is slow in the minute arteries and veins; the beat of the heart is regular, and generally about twenty- eight times in the minute. We might be disposed to view the condition of the circulation in the state of hibernation as being reptile, or analogous to that of the batra- chian tribes. But when we reflect that the re- spiration is nearly, if not totally, suspended, and that the blood is venous,* we must view the condition of the circulation as in a lower condition still, and, as it were, sub-reptile. It may, indeed, be rather compared to that state of the circulation which is observed in the frog from which the brain and spinal marrow have been removed by minute portions at distant inter- vals, f In fact, in the midst of a suspended respira- tion, and an impaired condition of some other functions, one vital property is augmented. This is the irritability, and especially the irrita- bility of the left side of the heart. The left side of the heart, which is, in the hibernating animal, in its state of activity, as in all the other mammalia, only arterio-contractile, be- comes veno-contractile. This phenomenon is one of the most remark- able presented to me in the whole animal king- dom. It forms the single exception to the most general rule amongst animals which pos- sess a double heart. It accounts for the possi- bility of immersion in water or a noxious gas, without drowning or asphyxia; and it accounts for the possibility of a suspended respiration, without the feeling of oppression or pain, although sensation be unimpaired. It is, in a word, this peculiar phenomenon, which, con- joined with the peculiar effect of sleep in in- ducing diminished respiration in hibernating animals, constitutes the susceptibility and capa- bility of taking on the hibernating state. On the other hand, as the rapid circulation of a highly arterialized blood in the brain and spinal marrow of birds probably conduces to their activity, the slow circulation of a venous blood doubtless contributes to the lethargy of the hibernating animal. I need scarcely advert to the function of defacation. It has already been briefly noticed under the head of sanguification, with which it proceeds pari passu. In regard to the nervous system, I can only repeat that sensation and volition are quiescent. * M. Prunelle observes, " En comparant le sang de deux chauve-souris auxquelles j'avois ouvert les carotides, a l'une pendant son engourdissement et a l'autre dans l'etat de veille, j'ai trouve celui de la derniere beaucoup plus vermeil." Annales du Museum, tome xviii. p. 28. In my memoir upon the subject of hibernation,* I committed an error relative to this subject. But I am now satisfied that what I considered to be evidences of an unimpaired sensibility, were phenomena of the excito-motory kind. Thus I have observed that the slighest touch applied to one of the spines of the hedgehog immedi- ately rouses it to draw that deep inspiration of which I have spoken. The merest shake in- duces a few respirations in the bat. The least disturbance, in fact, is felt, as is obvious from its effect in inducing motion in the animal. It is from the misconception on this point that the error has arisen, that the respiration is not absolutely suspended in hibernation. This function has been so readily re-excited, that it has been considered as appertaining to the state of hibernation. As I have already stated, the cerebral func- tions sleep, the true spinal functions retain their wonted energy ; and if the respiration be nearly suspended, it is because little carbonic acid, the excitor of respiration, is evolved. In the midst of a suspended or partially sus- pended respiration, the irritability of the mus- cular fibre becomes proportionately augmented. The single fact of a power of sustaining the privation of air, without loss of life, leads alone to the inference that the irritability is greatly augmented in the state of hibernation. This inference flows from the law already stated, and the fact is one of its most remarkable illus- trations and confirmations. It might have been inferred from these pre- mises, that the beat of the heart would continue longer after decapitation in the state of hiber- nation than in the state of activity in the same animal; an inference at once most singular and correct. This view receives the fullest confirmation from the following remarkable experiment: on March the 9th, soon after midnight, I took a hedgehog which had been in a state of uninter- rupted lethargy during 150 hours, and divided the spinal marrow just below the occiput; I then removed the brain and destroyed the whole spinal marrow as gently as possible. The action of the heart continued vigorous during four hours, when, seeing no prospect of a termination to the experiment, I resolved to envelope the animal in a wet cloth, and leave it until early in the morning. At 7 o'clock a.m. the beat of both sides of the heart still continued. They still continued to move at 10 a.m., each auricle and each ventricle con- tracting quite distinctly. At half-after 11 a.m. all were equally motionless ; yet all equally contracted on being stimulated by the point of a penknife. At noon the two ventricles were alike unmoved on being irritated as before; but both auricles contracted. Both auricles and ventricles were shortly afterwards unirritable. This experiment is the most extraordinary of those which have been performed upon the mammalia. It proves several interesting and important points : 1. That the irritability of the heart is augmented in continued lethargy in an