FIBROUS TISSUE. 6. Tendons.—These organs, which serve to connect the muscles to the osseous system, are composed of fibres so closely disposed that some anatomists, but erroneously, doubt their identity with the other fibrous organs. This compactness is owing to the extreme con- densation of the intervening cellular tissue, which is also the cause of these bodies re- sisting for a longer period than the ligamen- tous or fascial structures, the influence of ma- ceration. Every tendon is united by one of its ex- tremities to the fibres of the muscle to which it belongs, and by the other it is connected with the bone or other part on which the muscle is destined to act. The exact mode of connexion between the tendinous and mus- cular tissues is difficult to determine. Ocular and microscopical inspection seem to prove that the tendinous fibres result from the con- tinuation and condensation of those cellular sheaths, which inclose and in part form the muscular fibrils. It has, however, been stated that there is an intermediate substance between the muscle and the tendon, different from both of them, and serving to connect them together. The details relative to the mecha- nical disposition of these organs belong to the consideration of the muscular system.— See Muscle. II. Yellow elastic fibrous organs.— (Tela elastica.) It was justly observed by Bichat that the ligaments placed between the arches of the vertebrae differ in their nature from the other ligaments of the body; and modern anatomists, admitting this distinction, have enumerated the following structures as a separate class of the fibrous organs : the yellow ligaments of the spine; the external and espe- cially the middle or proper membrane of the arteries, the fibrous covering of the excretory ducts; the ligamentous tissue joining the carti- lages of the air-passages; the fibrous envelope of the cavernous bodies of the penis and clitoris, and of the vesiculas seminales. Although the highest authorities consider that the middle tunic of the arteries is com- posed of this tissue, yet the correctness of this opinion is very doubtful. It is true that, as far as colour is concerned, the similarity is well founded ; but the arterial fibrous coat is endowed with a power of contraction, evi- dently distinct from mere elastic contraction, which is totally wanting in the true yellow fibrous tissue. In addition to the parts above named, it is necessary to add that in certain organs where great elasticity is requisite there is a peculiar yellow cellular substance, which, although it does not present the dense and fibrous cha- racter, appears to belong essentially to the organs under consideration. This texture is particularly distinct in the mucous folds which constitute the superior boundary of the glottis, a part that is remarkable for its extra- ordinary elasticity.* * It is slated by Sir E. Home (Lett, on Comp. Anat. vol. ii. p. 49,) that this tissue enters into the It occasionally happens, as in the forma- tion of the intervertebral substance, that the yellow fibrous tissue and the common liga- mentous are combined. A more striking instance of this combination is seen in the construction of the connecting ligament which forms the hinge in bivalve shells, in which one part, the external, is composed of ligamentous matter, whilst another, the internal, consists of a highly elastic fibrous tissue. Organization and properties.—If the yellow ligament of the spine or the ligamentum nu- chas in ruminants be examined, it will be seen that each is smooth on its surface, and is made up of a great number of longitudinal and highly elastic fibres, which, in the latter in- stance, are readily separated and unravelled by the finger. This texture is, I believe, sui generis, and is altogether distinct from the common ligamentous structures. In a recent publication,* M. Laurent conceives that this tissue is intermediate in its characters to the tissus scltreux (under which term he proposes to class the white fibrous organs, the cartilages and bones,) and the muscular tissue; he there- fore calls it tissu sclero-sarceux. Although it is very doubtful if the elastic fibrous structures have any thing in their organization similar to the muscular fibre, yet it is certain that in function they are intermediate between the common ligaments and the muscles, a fact which is kept in view in thellunterian Museum, in which the elastic ligaments are placed next to the muscles. The resistance and elasticity of these organs enable them firmly to connect together the parts to which they are attached, and at the same time allow them to yield to double their length on the application of an extending force. In this manner they economise mus- cular action, by substituting for that force the power of elasticity. This employment of an elastic rather than a muscular power is evinced in the yellow ligaments of the spine, which pull the vertebras towards each other, and thus assist the muscles in maintaining the upright posture. The same thing is also seen in many of the lower ani- mals ; as in the support of the head by the ligamentum nuchas—the retraction of the claws in the feline carnivora by an elastic ligament— and the support of the abdominal organs in many large quadrupeds by the elastic super- ficial fascia. But the most interesting ex- ample of this economy of muscular action is displayed in the bivalve shell of the oyster and other acephalous mollusca, in which in- stance not only is the shell kept open by the elastic ligament of the hinge for the purpose of admitting the nutriment of the animal; but formation of muscle ; but this is probably erro- neous, as the elasticity of muscles depends on the large proportion of elastic cellular membrane w hich they contain. Lobstein has also published some observations in the Jour. Univer. des Sc. Med. on the tissue of the uterus, which he regards as ana- logous to the so-called yellow tissue of the middle arterial coat. * Annales Franchises el Eu-angcres d'Anal. et dc Physiol. Jan. 1837. I*. 59.