882 INSECTA. on which account it was compared by him to lignin, the basis of woody fibre. He believed also that it contains no carbonate of lime, the earthy salts being chiefly phosphate of lime, with carbonate of potass and a little phosphate of iron. Mr. Children, however, by a more careful and different mode of analysis, proved that chitine is composed of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen, in about the following proportions, the mean which we have deduced from his details of two careful analyses: Grs. Carbon 46.08 Hydrogen ..'.. 5.96 Nitrogen .... 10.29 , 37.41 99.74 and that, in addition to the earthy salts men- tioned by Odier, there are also small propor- tions of silica and magnesia, and a slight trace of manganese; and it has since been stated that there is likewise a trace of carbonate of lime.* Some authors still imagine that chitine contains no nitrogen;! but in the careful expe- riments of Mr. Children, who was assisted by Professor Datiiell,J the formation of prussic acid, which took place during the analysis, was decisive of the fact of its existence. Thus, then, in the distinctness of its chemical composition from that of horn and other dermal appendages, and in its similarity to that of true bone, in the greater proportion of its earthy matter being phosphate of lime, may we not venture to infer that chitine, the basis of the insect skeleton, is intermediate in its chemical condition between the ossific and dermal struc- tures ; or, in other words, is an imperfectly de- veloped condition of bony matter, so modified that, while it is subservient to the great purpose of animal life, in affording strength and solidity to the parts in which it exists, it at the same time admits of their performing all the organic functions of the true skin ? If such be not the case, it will be difficult satisfactorily to account for the solidification of those internal processes which, in insects, occupy the position and perform the office of the true bones in vertebrata, but which are originally deri- ved from the external teguments. Thus we shall find that in the cranium of some of the Coleop- tera, the most perfect insects, the cerebral gan- glia are protected on either side by more or less perfectly developed lamina? of this bone-like structure; that the first subcesophageal ganglion actually lies in a cradle of the same, and that the nervous cord itself, before passing out of the cranium, is not only protected laterally by continuations of these laminae, but is often in- closed in a distinct bony ring. But it may be said that the exuviation of the coverings of in- sects during the early period of life, when un- * Professor Owen's Lectures at the Royal Col- lege of Surgeons, May 1837. t Professor Grant, Lancet, Dec. 7, 1833, p. 393. Burmeislor, Manual of Entomology, (translation.) 1836, p. 230. % Zoological Journal, March 1824, p. 115. dergoing their metamorphoses, and a like con- dition in other articulata, is opposed to this opinion. To this we reply, that in all true in^ sects exuviation of the skeleton takes place only during the growth and metamorphoses of the individual, and that when these are com- pleted, and the insect has arrived at its adult condition, when its body no longer continues to be enlarged, the then perfect skeleton is per- sistent throughout the remainder of life, which, as in the hive-bee, may continue for many months, and under some circumstances, as has been known among the Coleoptera, even for two or three years. The exuviation of the ske- leton of Crustacea, which are said to continue to grow throughout the whole period of their existence, is similar to that of insects, and per- haps in both is induced, not alone, as usually supposed, by the mere incasement of the animal in a covering which prevents the further growth of its body, but by changes in the actual con- dition of the skeleton itself, dependent upon the same laws of existence which regulate the removal of the old and the deposition of new matter in the bones and other structures of the vertebrata. Of the manner in which chitine is deposited in insects we have no direct information. Latreille considers it to be a solidification in the mucous tissue, and Dr. Grant affirms it to be a deposition upon the true skin. This appears also to have been the opinion of Odier, who found chitine in theexuviable skeleton of Crus- tacea, in which he says it exists in the form of lamellae.* In whatever form it is deposited, it is intimately connected with the true corium, into the composition of which it appears to enter. It is covered by the colouring matter, and also with a distinct epidermis like the horny cuticle on the carapace of Chelonia. On comparing the experiments of M. Odier and Mr. Children the quantity of chitine appears to vary a little in different insects.f A curious circumstance mentioned also by Odier is that it appears to enter into the composition of the tracheae of the wings, but not into that of their connecting membranes. If this be the case, it is a further proof that the skeleton ought not to be compared to the epidermal appendages of vertebrata. The skeleton consists of thirteen distinct seg- ments, which are believed to be its normal number in all insects. But recent observations on the larvae of Hytnenoptera and Diptera, before alluded to, render it probable that this is not the full amount, and that the number is at least fourteen, at all events in some species. Mr. VVestwood has already shown this to be the case in Hymenoptera, and that in the per- fect state of ForJicula% there are thirteen dis- tinct segments in the male, and, also in a rudimentary state, in the female, besides the anal forceps. We have ourselves invariably found fourteen in the apodal larvae of Hymen- optera and in some of the Diptera; but we * Zoological Journal, vol. i. March, 1824, p. 108. + Op. cit, J Trans. Ent. Society, vol. i. p. 157, et seq.