505 BONES OF THE HAND. HAIR. See Tegumentaf.y System. HAND, BONES OF THE, (Human Ana- tomy.) The hand (veig, wiaraws; Hi. la main; Germ, die Hand,) is the inferior segment of the upper extremity. Its presence is charac- teristic of man and the Quadrumana. Although formed on the same general type, the hand will be found to exhibit many points of difference from the foot—characters strongly indicative of the diversity of use for which it is designed. In examining the skeleton of the hand, we observe subdivisions analogous to those which exist in the foot—the carpus cor- responding to the tarsus, the metacarpus to the metatarsus, and the phalanges of the fingers in every way analogous to those of the toes. Independently of the lightness and mobility which are such prominent features in the me- chanism of the hand, when contrasted with that of the foot, the divergence of the first or radial finger (the thumb) from the line of direction of the other four, is peculiarly cha- racteristic of the band. Whilst the four fingers, properly so called, are parallel to the middle line of the hand, the thumb, when extended, forms with itan angle of rather more than 45°. To this position of the thumb is due in the greatest part the facility of opposing it to one of the fingers, a movement so necessary in the pre- hension of minute objects.* The general form of the hand i.s oval, the obtuse extremity corresponding to the tips of the fingers, the unequal lengths of which oc- casion the curvature in this situation. On its posterior surface or dorsum, the hand is convex ; on its anterior surface or palm, it is concave : both these surfaces correspond to, and in the recent state are supported by, the bones of the carpus and metacarpus. I. Carpus (Germ, die Handivurzel). The carpus bears a much less proportion in size to the whole hand than the tarsus does to the foot; it forms scarcely more than one-fourth of the hand. Its outline is oval, the long axis being transverse: if examined in a hand to which the ligaments are attached, the carpus will be found to form the posterior and osseous portion of an osseo-ligamentous ring, which gives pas- sage to the tendons of the fingers. It is con- sequently hollowed from side to side, and is bounded on each side by a bony ridge, which gives attachment to the ligament (annular ligament) which forms the anterior part of the ring ; on the radial side the ridge is formed by a process of the os trapezium and of the sca- phoid ; on the ulnar, where there is a more prominent ridge, by a process of the unciform bone, and by the os pisiforme. Seven bones, arranged in two rows, form the carpus. The superior row consists of the os navicu/ure, as lunare, and os cuneiformc, to which last is articulated a bone, constantly reckoned as a carpal bone, but which, I con- ceive, may be more correctly regarded as a sesamoid bone, the us pisiforme. The second * See the prefatory observations to the article Foot. or inferior row is formed by the os trapezium, os trupezoides, os magnum, and os unciforme. 1. Os naviculare (os scuphoideum ; Fr. le scaphotde; Germ, das Kahnbem). The na- vicular or scaphoid is the largest of the upper row, and likewise the most external. Its su- perior surface is convex, oval, with long axis transverse, articular, and is adapted to the outer part of the carpal articular extremity of the radius. The hollowed surface, to which it owes its name (boat-like), is directed down- wards and inwards; this is likewise articular and receives the head of the os magnum: con- tinuous with and to the inner side of this hollow surface, there is a plane one of a semi- lunar form, with which the os lunare is articu- lated. The scaphoid bone articulates with the trapezium and trapezoides, by a convex surface directed downwards and outwards. Externally this bone terminates in a pointed extremity which receives the external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint and the annularligament (tuber- culum ossisnaviculuris, s.eminentia carpiradialis superior). The anterior and posterior surfaces of the bone are rough, and give attachment to the anterior and posterior radio-carpal ligaments. 2. Os lunare, (os semilunare v. iunatum; Fr. le. semilunaire; Germ, das Mondbein), situated between the scaphoid and the cunei- form bones, it presents four articular surfaces ; an upper one, convex and somewhat triangular in its outline, articulated with the radius; an inferior one, very much hollowed from before backwards (to the crescentic form of which the bone owes its name), articulated with the os magnum; an external surface, plane and square, adapted to the cuneiform bone; and, lastly, an internal surface, by which it articu- lates with the scaphoid. 3. Os cuneiforme (os triquetrum s. pyra- midale; Fr. le pj/ramidale; Germ, dasdreiseitige Bein). This bone terminates the superior carpal row on the ulnar side; its upper surface is partly smooth, encrusted with cartilage in the recent state, where it is in contact with the triangular ligament of the wrist-joint, and partly rough where it gives attachment to liga- ments. Externally it articulates with the cunei- form bone, and inferiorly with the unciform by a large and concave suaface. The inner half of its anterior surface articulates with the pisiform bone, and the radial half of the same surface is rough for ligamentous insertion. The three bones just described, constituting the superior row of the carpus when united, present on their superior aspect a convex arti- cular surface which forms the carpal portion of the radio-carpal joint, the scaphoid and lunar being articulated with the radius, while the cuneiform glides upon the triangular carti- lage of the wrist. 4. Os pisiforme (from pisum, a pea; Fr. le pisiforme; Germ, das Erbsenbein). This little bone projects at the anterior part of the ulnar extremity of the superior carpal row; it forms what some anatomists designate eminentia carpi ulnuris superior, being part of the bony ridge already referred to on the ulnar side of the carpus. The prominence produced