HIBERNATION. ?64 The symptoms of umbilical hernia are easily understood by referring to those points in which it differs from ruptures situated else- where. In the infant the tumour appears long and thin, according to the quantity of viscera protruded through the aperture of the navel, and projects downwards on the belly : its coverings are almost transparent. In the more adult subject, if the patient is thin the tumour is of a pyriform figure, and when permitted to in- crease without restraint becomes very large and hangs pendulous towards the pubes. If he is fat it may form a less circumscribed swelling, broad and flat, apparently extending in every direction round the umbilical aperture. The sensation imparted to the finger is of a soft and doughy tumour slightly moveable under the skin, but sometimes in consequence of the presence of intestine in the rupture it may possess some elasticity. Occasionally, after an omental hernia has remained for years without producing much inconvenience, it sud- denly enlarges towards the centre and assumes a conical chape, the apex being soft and elastic, the base hard and more solid : in this case there has probably been a fresh protrusion of intestine which has burst through the omentum and requires instant attention, as so circum- stanced it is extremely liable to fall into a state of strangulation. The collateral symptoms, such as nausea, flatulence, colicky pains, &c, are more severe and more frequent in umbilical than in any other form of hernia, a circum- stance that has often given rise to the idea that the stomach formed some part of the protrusion, but perhaps it is unnecessary to resort to such a supposition, for probably the hernia? of the linea alba that have been described as con- taining part of the displaced stomach were in no wise different from ordinary umbilical ruptures as to their contents, for the omentum being protruded will be sufficient to account for every aggravation of symptom. When the hernia is strangulated, it is said that the symptoms are less severe and less urgent than in other species of ruptures, a cir- cumstance that has also been accounted for from its so often containing omentum alone. Sir A. Cooper states that more cases of stran- gulation occur in the seasons when green vege- tables are plenty than in others, which would seem to favour the idea of its being often caused by the use of flatulent or indigestible sub- stances. But (except with reference to pre- vention) it is of little consequence how it may be caused, or whether its progress is rapid or not. When once formed, it must be reduced ; and it runs its course with sufficient rapidity to render it extremely alarming. It has destroyed a patient in less than eighteen hours, and although such severity is not generally to be expected, yet in this or in any other kind of hernia the smallest unnecessary delay can never be justified. " Sometimes a small mass of indurated fat, situated between the peritoneum and its union with the aponeurosis of the abdominal muscles, makes its way insensibly through the separated fibres of the linea alba, and is at last elevated externally in form of a tumour which seems to have all the characters of an omental hernia. The existence of this species of tumour through the linea alba is not only a certain fact and de- monstrated by several observations made on the dead body by Morgagni, by Klinkosch and several others, but it is also proved that it makes its appearance in other parts of the linea alba besides that to which the umbilical vein corresponds internally. It may occur that a person in whom a similar small tumour has existed for a long time in the course of the linea alba may be attacked from a quite diffe- rent cause by violent colic, with nausea, incli- nation to vomit, and interruption to the alvine excretions. The surgeon, in similar circum- stances, is easily led into error," (and Scarpa committed the mistake himself,) " presuming that the tumour is a true incarcerated hernia of the linea alba, subjecting the patient to an ope- ration which has no connexion with the cause of the disease." Never having seen any similar tumour, I have copied the above passage from Scarpa: they are probably of the same nature with those described by Mr. Colles as occa- sionally presenting at the crural ring. The resemblance must be strikingly obvious to every reader. ( William Henri/ Porter.) HIBERNATION ; etym. hiberno, to win- ter, to pass the winter; syn. lethargy ; errone- ously, torpor; Fr. sommeil hivernal; Germ. Winterschlaf and Sommerschlqf; a term chiefly applied to express that condition in which cer- tain animals pass the winter season. How often have I been struck with admira- tion in observing how variously the Creator has provided for certain of the insectivorous tribes, the swallow and the bat, for example, against the period when the sources of their daily food are cut off, when spring and summer yield to autumn and winter, and insects disappear ! The first emigrates to a more genial climate where its nutriment still abounds ; the second sinks into a deep sleep, in which food is unnecessary, and which continues through the dreary season of cold and famine. It has not hitherto been distinctly ascertained to what extent the state of hibernation prevails in the animal kingdom; the bat, the hedgehog, and the dormouse, are the genera which present us with the most marked examples of this sin- gular physiological condition in this country ; to these the elegant authoress of " Sketches of Natural History" has added the water-rat and the wood-mouse, observing of the former— " And when cold winter comes and the water- plants die, And his little brooks yield him no longer supply, Down into his burrow he cozily creeps, And quietly through the long winter-time sleeps." But before we proceed to discuss this ques- tion of natural history, we must consider that of the physiology of hibernation. There is, in my opinion, an ultimate law of animal existence, which seems to regulate the different forms in which the different classes of animals present themselves. The quantity of