41 ECHINODERMATA. which is required in the respiratory process. These currents are produced by means of cilia; they are more particularly described in the article Cilia, to which we refer the reader. Ciliary currents take place also on the external surface of the body, which probably partakes in the process of respiration ; we have more- over observed them within the tubular feet and on the internal surface of the stomach and cceca; in this last situation they are probably subservient to digestion, but their use is more fully considered in the article referred to. b. The respiratory system of the sea-urchin is very similar. The water enters the body through membranous respiratory tubes, which are collected into ten small bunches (Jig. 15, e, e), situated on the under surface of the animal at the border of the shell, and opening internally by ten perforated pits like those of the Asterias. The fluid being introduced into the peritoneal cavity, is moved along its parietes and over the surface of the alimentary canal, the ovaries and the vascular laminre of the feet, by the action of cilia. Ciliary currents have also been observed on the external surface of the body. c. The respiratory organ of Holothuria (Jig. 34, /, /', h, p. 109, vol. i.) has some resem- blance in form to that of air-breathing animals. It is a very long membranous sac, placed within the body, which opens into the cloaca near the rectum and extends forwards from thence nearly the whole length of the body, either single, or (as in Holothuria tubulosa) divided into two main branches (Jig. 20, c, c, cut short, Jig. 34, f,f, p. 109, vol. i.), which in the vicinity of the cloaca are joined by a short common stem. One of these branches is intimately connected by bloodvessels to the intestine, the other by muscular fasciculi to the parietes of the body. The sac, whether single or bifid, gives off a great many lateral branches, which after successive divisions ter- minate in shut or blind extremities. Both stem and branches contain distinct circular and longitudinal muscular fibres, and contract on being irritated. In the act of respiration sea- water is drawn into and expelled from this organ, and its entrance and exit, which may be readily seen at the cloaca, occur in some species so often as once, twice, or even three times in a minute. The alternate inhalation and expulsion of the fluid are effected partly by the action of the muscular parietes of the body, but principally, it would appear, by the muscular fibres of the organ itself, for Tiede- mann observed the process still to go on, though with diminished activity, when the animal was cut open and the organ exposed. Cuvier states that the sac in some species is without branches. 5. Vascular system.—A system of vessels for the circulation of the blood exists in the animals under consideration. The tenuity of their coats, however, and pale colour of their contents render it extremely difficult to trace completely the distribution of these vessels, and we accordingly find that the descriptions of them given by Tiedemann and Delle Chiaje, the principal authorities on the subject, differ materially from each other. According to Tiedemann the proper sanguiferous system is, in its distribution, in a great measure confined to the alimentary organs and ovaries, or to these and the respiratory organ where such is present; he therefore supposes that the canals which convey the fluid of the feet serve more- over as nutritious vessels to parts of the body also supplied by the sanguiferous system. In short he conceives that there are two systems of nutritious vessels distinct from each other, the sanguiferous system, confined to certain organs already named, and the vessels of the feet, destined to nourish another set of parts; the vessels of the first system carrying blood, those of the second a nutritious fluid secreted from the blood. Delle Chiaje on the other hand maintains that the two orders of vessels communicate together and form but one sys- tem. From our own observations on the Asterias we are disposed to conclude that the vessels of the feet form a system apart from the bloodvessels, as is maintained by Tiede- mann ; but there seems considerable reason to doubt whether, as that author supposes, they serve as the nutritious vessels of the parts in which they run; for even according to his own admirable description it does not appear that they ramify in the tissues, if we except, perhaps, the skin of the Holothuria. Moreover their contained liquid does not present the usual characters of blood or of a fluid adapted to nourish the textures; it is true there are float- ing particles suspended in it, but the clear fluid when filtered yields no trace of animal matter, but agrees almost entirely in com- position with sea-water; at least such is the result of our examination of it in the Asterias. The vessels of the feet having been already de- scribed, we have here only to give an account of the proper sanguiferous system, following Tiede- mann as our leading authority, but at the same time stating the more material points in which Delle Chiaje differs from him. a. In Asterias a delicate vessel runs along the upper surface of each of the cceca. There are, of course, ten such vessels in Asterias aurantiaca (from which the description is taken) corresponding in number with the cceca (Jig. 22, v, v). They commence near the extremity of trie rays, and, receiving branches from the branches and lobes of the coeca, proceed to the central part of the animal, where they terminate in a circular vessel (x) which runs round the upper part of the body on the internal surface. The circular vessel also re- ceives ten branches (y,y) from the ovaries, and five from the stomach, which before joining it unite into two (w). The vessels described seem to constitute the venous system, and Tiedemann further supposes that the ccecal and gastric veins convey the chyle or nutritious part of the food from the alimentary organs. The circular vein opens into a vertical canal (h, and fig. 12, h), which descends along the prominent angle between two rays, inclosed in the same membranous sheath with the sand canal already described, and terminates in an