FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. Yet it is asserted by M. Serres,* who has founded his opinion upon the observations which he has made upon the successive de- velopement of the brain and nerves in the embryo of vertebrate animals, that in the Mammalia the nerve is implanted upon the trapezium. Such is the form of expression by which he intends, as the author understands, the ultimate connection of the nerve with the brain. Now, in the first place, we have al- ready seen where that connection is in those animals in which the trapezium does not exist, and it appears to the author reasonable to con- clude that similar nerves have similar or ana- logous attachments in the several classes of animals, however the parts with which they are connected may be complicated or ob- scured by superadded structures. In the second place the trapezium can be regarded only as a superadded structure, and is not among those parts from which nerves are likely to arise, being itself but a commissure: and, thirdly, the situation and connections of the part to which the nerve is attached, are altogether in- compatible with the opinion that it is the tra- pezium, inasmuch as the latter is situate be- fore the cords, which ascend from the anterior columns of the spinal cord to the crura cerebri, while the structure with which the nerve is connected is posterior to them. For these reasons the author concludes that M. Series has mistaken the place of the nerve's attach- ment in the Mammalia. In conclusion, the representation of the ori- gin of the nerve, which appears to the writer to be the most remote of all from the real one, is that given by Swan, in his plates of the nerves lately published, in which the fifth is re- flected into the auditory nerve: such a con- nection is merely artificial and does not really exist; it can be produced only by stopping short in the pursuit of the fifth nerve, and mould- ing it into the anterior root of the auditory, which is in contact with it. This view of its encephalic attachment has probably originated in the intimate connection known to exist between the two nerves in in- ferior animals. The complication of the cere- bral connection of the nerve in the higher animals may be now better understood. In those, in which the pons and trapezium do not exist, the nerve emerges directly from the spinal bulb, in a manner similar to the ad- joining nerves; but in those, in which the bodies alluded to are present, inasmuch as the attachment of the nerve is behind them, it can reach the surface only by either passing be- tween them, or traversing their substance. Hence, if the nerve simply traverse them, it ought not to receive any accession of fibres from them, and such, according to the writer's experience, is the case. As it emerges from the pons, the lesser packet receives an epithe- lium from its surface; but he has not been able to detect any fibres originating within the substance of that part. The structural arrangement, which the ence- * Op. cit. phalic portion of the nerve presents within the brain, is different from that, for which it is- remarkable, while superficial to it. Exter- nally it is, as has been stated, of a fascicular texture; but, within, that appearance is not to be observed: there the larger portion is a white, soft, homogeneous, flattened cord, the delicacy of which, in the natural state, forbids the separation of it into distinct parts; but when sufficiently hardened, it may be divided into numerous thin strata, and these again into delicate fibrils. That such an arrangement is a natural, and not an artificial appearance, is manifest from the circumstance, that the sepa- ration into fibrils can be effected only in one direction, the length of the nerve, and that they break off when it is attempted in the other. The nerve retains those characters as far as its attachment behind the crus, but there they cease; the pure white colour suddenly disappears; the point of attachment and the cords descending from it present a cineritious tint; and they are not absolutely distinct from the surrounding substance, as the nerve had previously been, but immersed in it; they are, however, still manifestly composed of fila- ments, which may be rent either toward or from the point of attachment; and after im- mersion in spirit they become nearly white. The course of the nerve, from its attachment to the surface of the brain, is forward and out- ward toward the internal anterior extremity of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; it next passes over the superior margin of that portion, and descends upon its anterior surface into the middle fossa of the base of the cra- nium, where it reaches the Gasserian ganglion. During its short course, from its attachment to the brain, to the ganglion, it is at first contained within the proper cerebral cavity, by the side of the pons Varolii, and beneath the internal anterior angle of the tentorium cerebelli ; in the second place, in the middle fossa, it is not within the cerebral cavity of the cranium, but beneath it, separated fro n it by a lamina of dura mater; it is there contained in a canal or chamber, formed by a separation of the dura mater into two layers, between which the nerve and its ganglion are inclosed, one be- neath them attached to the bone, another above separating thein from the brain. This chamber is situate immediately external to, and lower than the cavernous sinus, but separated from it by the inferior lamina of the dura mater just described, which ascends from the bone to join the superior, and in so doing forms a septum between the two chambers ; it is about three-fourths of an inch long, reaching from the superior margin of the petrous bone to the anterior margin of the depression upon its anterior surface, in which the ganglion rests. In front this chamber is wide, containing at that part the ganglion, and sends fibrous offsets upon the nervous trunks proceeding from it; poste- riorly it is narrow, and presents an oval aperture, about one-third of an inch long, situate ex- ternal and inferior to the posterior clinoid pro- cess of the sphenoid bone beneath the attach- ment of the tentorium cerebelli to that process,