165 EXTREMITY. animals, evidence of the existence of these motions is afforded by certain points in the conformation of the radius and ulna them- selves, such as the peculiar form of the head of the radius, and the concave articular sur- face on the ulnar side of its lower extremity, as well as the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and the convexity on the radial side of the head of the same bone. This is found in many of the Carnivora, but chiefly in the Quadru- mana. In the Ruminants and Solipeds the radius and ulna are consolidated together so as to form one bone; they can, however, be distin- guished at the humeral end, where the latter bone is conspicuous by its elongated olecranon, which not only affords insertion to the extensor muscles of the arm, but also increases the secu- rity of the elbow-joint. The radius, which is the principal bone of the fore-arm, is so arti- culated with the humerus as to admit of free flexion and extension, but it is fixed in the state of pronation. In many of the other Mam- malia the radius and ulna are distinct through- out, but do not admit of the rotation of the one on the other; this is the case in Rodentia, many Carnivora, Pachydermata, Edentata, In- sectivora, and Cetacea. In the Sloth, how- ever, among the Edentata, the motions of pro- nation and supination are conspicuous, and the olecranon is imperfectly developed; on the contrary, in the Edentata proper, as the Arma- dillo, Megatherium, &c. these motions do not exist, and the olecranon is very much deve- loped. In the Cheiroptera the radius is the principal bone of the fore-arm, the ulna being developed only as to its humeral extremity consisting sometimes of little more than its olecranon ; and in some, as the Vespertilio vam- pyrus, the olecranon exists in the form of a pa- tella, connected with the upper extremity of the ulna. In Birds the radius and ulna are distinct throughout, but do not admit of motion between them; they are fixed in a state intermediate be- tween pronation and supination. The Hand.-—The third division of the upper extremity is the hand : for the description of the bones which compose it, we refer to the article Hand. Inferior extremity.—The bones which form the skeleton of the inferior or pelvic extremity are the femur, tibia, fibula, and the bones of the foot, occupying subdivisions of this mem- ber, which correspond to the arm, forearm, and hand in the pectoral extremity. Femur (thigh-bone, os Jemoris v. cruris, os coxa. Fr. os de la cuisse, le femur. Germ, das Schenkelbein.) This is the largest and longest bone of theskeleton; it constitutes the upper part of the inferior extremity, and is articulated with the pelvis above and the tibia inferiorly. The femur exhibits very obviously the characteristic marks of the class of long bones in its elonga- ted and cylindrical shaft, and its swollen extre- mities. The superior extremity of the femur consists of a spherical head, connected to the shaft of the bone by a neck. The head is very regu- larly spheroidal, being nearly two-thirds of a sphere; it is limited towards the neck by a waving line which passes all round, and corre- sponds to the margin of the acetabulum. The whole head of the femur is incrusted in the recent state with articular cartilage, excepting at one point, where there is a depression or pit, varying in depth in different subjects. The precise situation of this depression is just infe- rior and posterior to the point at which the axis of the head of the femur would pass out: into this depression the ligamentum teres is in- serted. From the head of the femur is prolonged outwards and downwards to the upper end of the shaft the neck (cervix v. colium Jemoris). This portion of bone, cylindrical where it is connected to the head, gradually expands as it proceeds outwards, and is flattened in front and behind. That portion of the neck of the femur which is connected with the shaft may be called its base; here we observe two lines, by which the demarcation between the neck and shaft is indicated ; one of these lines is anterior, being simply a rough line extending from the great trochanter obliquely downwards, inwards, and slightly backwards to the lesser trochanter, and thence called the anterior inter- trochanteric line, into which the capsular liga- ment of the hip-joint is inserted; the other line may be more correctly designated a prominent ridge ; it is situated at the posterior part of the base of the neck, and extended also between the trochanters, the posterior intertrochanteric line. The anterior surface of the neck of the femur is for the most part plane, but slightly concave just external to the line of junction of the head. The superior surface of the neck is concave, being limited on the outside by the great tro- chanter ; the posterior surface is likewise con- cave, being, as it were, hollowed from within outwards. The inferior surface is slightly con- cave from above downwards, but rounded from before backwards : this surface inclines down- wards and outwards, and at its termination is connected with the trochanter minor behind, and the inner side of the shaft of the bone in front; in length it exceeds all the rest; the su- perior surface is the shortest, and the posterior is longer than the anterior. On all the surfaces of the neck we observe numerous foramina for the transmission of vessels into the substance of the bone; these foramina are largest and most numerous on the superior surface. At the superior angle of the base of the neck of the femur, and at the upper and outer part of the shaft of the bone, we observe a large and thick process, the trochanter major, (from t^o^ocu, roto,) processus exterior Jemoris; it is a prolongation upwards of the shaft of the bone, but its most elevated point is below the level of the head of the bone, corresponding to the upper part of the line of junction of the head with the neck. " This eminence," says Cruveilhier, " whose size is considerable, and which makes a very manifest prominence under the skin, ought to be studied with care in its relations as to its relative position ; first, witli the crista ilii, beyond which it projects exter-