174 EYE. adopted from not making allowance for the projection of the cornea, which is a portion of a smaller sphere than the globe itself, and con- sequently projects beyond its circumference. From the flaccid state of the eye even shortly after death, it must be very difficult to measure it accurately. The question is, however, for- tunately of little practical importance. The eyeball of the male is generally a little larger than that of the female ; and if a close inquiry be made into the matte . ., much difference in this respect might probably be detected in different individuals. I have seen the eyeball in an adult of full size not larger than that of a child of five years old ; and there is much apparent difference in consequence of the difference in the depth of the orbit, and in the gape of the eyelids. Although the human eyeball is nearly a perfect sphere, that precise form is obviously not an essential requisite in the construction of a perfect organ of vision. In all the vertebral animals the bottom of the eye, where the retina is expanded, is probably a portion of a correct sphere, but in many the anterior part is com- pressed, or in other words the sphere is trun- cated, to adapt it to the form and dimensions of the head, or to bring the cornea and lens nearer to the retina. In the mysticete whale the axis is to the diameter as 20 to 29 ; in the swan as 7 to 10 ; in the turtle as about 8 to 10; and in the cod as 14 to 17. This deviation from the spherical form demands a corresponding provi- sion in the construction of the sclerotic, to be noticed when describing that membrane. For a fuller account of the comparative proportional measurements of the eye, the student is referred to the works of Cuvier and D. W. Sommer- ring, as quoted at the end of this article; the limits of which do not admit of a greater detail of facts derived from comparative anatomy than the illustration of the description of the human organ absolutely demands. Having attempted to give a general notion of the mechanism of the eye in the preceding paragraphs, it remains to consider each com- ponent part separately, and to determine its organization, properties, and application, as well as the changes to which it is liable from age, disease, or other circumstances. Of the sclerotic membrane. — This, as has been stated, constitutes, with the transpa- rent cornea, the external case upon which the integrity of the more delicate inter- nal parts of the organ depends, otherwise in- capable of preserving their precise relations to each other: without such support the compo- nent structures must fall to pieces, or be crushed by external pressure. The name is derived from the Greek cntM^ou, and it has also been called cornea and cornea opaca in contradistinc- tion to the true or transparent cornea, a structure to which it bears no resemblance whatsoever; it is the same animal material which exists in all parts of the body where strength with flexi- bility is required, the material which in modern times has been denominated fibrous mem- brane. When carefully freed from all ex- traneous matter by clipping with a pair of scissors under water, it presents the brilliant silvery-white appearance so characteristic of the fibrous membranes. The white streaks which give the fibrous appearance appeal' ar- ranged concentrically as the lines on imper- fectly polished metallic surfaces. It is inelastic as other fibrous membranes, and so strong that it does not tear or yield unless exposed to the greatest violence. Although penetrated by the vessels going into and returning from the in- ternal parts of the eye, it does not appear to have much more red blood circulating through its texture than other tendinous expansions distinguished for their whiteness. The vas- cularity of the anterior part, however, where it is exposed in the living body, constituting the tunica albuginea, or while of the eye, is different from that of the rest of the mem- brane. The four straight muscles are pene- trated by small branches of the ophthalmic artery, the delicate ramifications of which con- verge to the circumference of the cornea, for the nutrition of which membrane they appear to be destined. In the natural state they can scarcely be detected, but when enlarged by in- flammation, present a remarkable appearance, considered by practical writers one of the most characteristic symptoms of inflammation of the eyeball, or, as it is called, iritis. They then appear as numerous distinct vessels, and as they approach the margin of the cornea, become so minute and subdivided, that they can no longer be distinguished as separate vessels, but merely present a uniform red tint, described as a pink zone. The colour of this inflammatory vascula- rity is also characteristic. Whether from the vessels being more arterial than venous, or from their distribution in so white a structure, they present a brilliant pink appearance very different from the deep red of conjunctival in- flammation, which often enables the practi- tioner to pronounce an opinion as to the nature of the disease before he makes a close examin- ation. The inner surface of the sclerotic where it is in contact with the choroid, does not present the same brilliant silver-white appearance that it does externally, being stained with the black colouring matter ; it is also obscured by a thin layer of cellular membrane, by means of which it is united to the external surface of the cho- roid.* This layer of cellular membrane was described by Le Cat, and more particularly by Zinn, as a distinct membrane, and considered to be a continuation of the pia mater ; it is, how- ever, obviously nothing more than the connect- ing material applied here as in other parts of the body where union is requisite. The thickness of the sclerotic is greater m the bottom of the eye than at its anterior part, where it is so thin that it allows the black colour of the choroid to appear through it, giving to this part of the eye a blue tint, particularly remark- able in young persons of delicate frame. The at- tachments of the four straight muscles, how- ever, appear to increase the thickness in this * [Arnold and others describe and figure a serous membrane in this situation (Spiunwebenhaut, arach- noidal nculi). See the figure of a vertical section of the eye in Arnold uber das Auge, tab. iii. fig. 2, and copied into Mr. Mackenzie's work on the Eye.—Ed.]