345 BONES OF THE FOOT. obliquely outwards to the second metatarsal, the other from the third cuneiform obliquely inwards to the same bone. We find, moreover. two plantar ligaments, one short and direct, passing from the second cuneiform bone to the second metatarsal, the other much longer and more oblique, coming from the first cuneiform. Lastly, this articulation has an interosseous liga- ment, which is extended from the lateral facet on the external surface of the first cuneiform to a corresponding one on the internal surface of the second cuneiform. Each of the remaining tarso-metatarsal arti- culations has its dorsal ligaments, of which those of the third and fourth are direct, and that of the fifth is extended obliquely outwards from the cuboid to the fifth metatarsal bone. In all three, the place of plantar ligament is supplied by the sheath of the long peroneal tendon, and the fifth receives additional strength from fibres given off from the tendon of the peroneus brevis. In the third there is an interosseous ligament between the third and fourth metatarsal bones, and from the anterior part of the external surface of the third cunei- form to the fourth metatarsal. The five tarso-metatarsal articulations have four synovial membranes amongst them : the first, as has already been mentioned, has a distinct one ; the second lines the contiguous surfaces of the first and second cuneiform bones, and is prolonged over the mortise-shaped cavity and the articular portions of the second meta- tarsal. The third lines the articular portions of the third cuneiform and third metatarsal, and is prolonged on either side of the latter in the form of two culs-de-sac into the space between the latter bone and the second meta- tarsal on the inside, and the fourth on the outside. In fine, the fourth synovial membrane is common to the fourth and fifth tarso-meta- tarsal joints. Metatarsal articulations.—The four external metatarsal bones are articulated with each other by means of the contiguous articular facets on the lateral surfaces of their posterior extremi- ties. They are maintained in apposition by interosseous ligaments which pass from one metatarsal bone to the other, being inserted into rough surfaces immediately above the articular portion of each bone. Moreover, these joints have dorsal and plantar ligaments, which consist of ligamentous fibres directed transversely from one bone to the other. The plantar ligaments are considerably stronger and thicker than the dorsal. The anterior extremities of the five meta- tarsal bones, although not articulated together by surfaces which play upon each other, are yet connected by a common transverse ligament which passes from one bone to ttye other, being attached to the plantar surface of each bone, and covered by the sheaths of the flexor ten- dons. Metatarso-phalangeal articulations. — The convex articular surface of the anterior extre- mity of each metatarsal bone is adapted to the concave surface on the posterior extremity of each posterior or metatarsal phalanx. A sepa- rate synovial membrane lines the articular sur- faces of each joint; and two lateral ligaments, one on either side, maintain the surfaces in apposition. On the dorsal aspect each joint is strengthened and protected by the extensor tendons; and on the plantar a strong, thick, almost cartilaginous substance is extended from the metatarsal bone to the phalanx. This substance protects the joint inferiorly; it is grooved on its inferior surface, and contributes to form the sheath for the flexor tendon, which runs along the plantar surface of each toe. The metatarso-phalangeal articulation of the great toe presents some points of difference from the others ; its surfaces are more exten- sive, and on the plantar aspect the head of the metatarsal bone has a pulley-like form, from the existence of a ridge in its centre, on either side of which there is a superficial depression : each depression receives a sesamoid bone, which, being formed in the substance of the inferior ligament, thus contributes greatly to strengthen the joint in this situation. Articulations of the toes.—These are gin- glymoid joints, all closely resembling each other both in the forms of the articular surfaces, and also in the bonds of union by which the contiguity of these surfaces is maintained. The articular surfaces are pulley-like; an in- ternal and an external lateral ligament belong to each joint; and the plantar aspect of each is protected by a ligamentous structure similar to that already described in the metatarso-phalan- geal joints. Motions of the metatarsal joints.—At the tarsal extremities the metatarsal bones enjoy but a very limited mobility in consequence of the strong and compact manner in which they are articulated with the tarsus ; their motions consist in a very limited and scarcely percepti- ble gliding upwards and downwards. At their phalangeal extremities, however, the metatar- sal bones are capable of a greater, although still a very limited, degree of motion. Motions of the metatarso-phalangeal joints. —These are flexion and extension, with a slight degree of lateral inclination or abduction and adduction, and also, of course, circumduction or the rapid succession of the preceding four. The lateral motions are very limited, being most manifest in the joint of the great toe. Flexion is limited by the extensor tendon and the superior fibres of the lateral ligaments; extension by the inferior fibres of the lateral ligaments, by the inferior ligament, and by the flexor tendon. Motions of the phalangeal joints.—Flexion and extension only are enjoyed by these joints, the extent of which is principally controlled by the lateral ligaments and by the due anta- gonism of the flexor and extensor muscles. Vie wing the human foot as a whole, we cannot fail to notice how admirably it is adapted as an instrument of support, and for the purposes of progression. For the former end the solid and yet elastic mechanism of the tarsus is mainly useful ; this part is placed immediately under the tibia, which transmits the weight of the body to the astragalus, the