22 DIGESTION. possessing in themselves the merit of consis- tency and probability. Those which we shall select are the theories of trituration, of fermen- tation, of chemical solution, and of nervous action, under one or other of which we may comprehend all the most important speculations which have engaged the attention of modern physiologists. The hypothesis of trituration may be consi- dered as having originated with the mechanical physiologists of the seventeenth century, and was apparently supported by the curious facts, which were, at that time, more particularly brought into view and minutely ascertained, of the great force exercised by the muscular sto- machs of certain tribes of birds. The facts, although perhaps in some instances rather ex- aggerated, were sufficiently curious, but the deductions from them were incorrect, first, in extending the analogy from one class of ani- mals to other classes, where it was altogether inapplicable; and secondly, in conceiving of the trituration which takes place in these mus- cular stomachs, as constituting the proper pro- cess of digestion, whereas it is merely a preli- minary process, equivalent to mastication. The aliment, after it leaves the gizzard, is in the same state of comminution into which it is re- duced by the teeth of those animals that are provided with these organs, and is then sub- jected to the action of the proper digestive stomach, and undergoes the process of chymi- fication. On this point the experiments of Stevens and Spallanzani, which were referred to above, are quite decisive; they show clearly how far the agency of mechanical action is in- strumental in the process of digestion, and they also show that some other principle is essentially necessary for its completion.* While the mathematical physiologists were thus attempting to explain the theory of diges- tion upon the principles of mechanical action, their rivals the chemists, who in every point strenuously opposed them, brought forward their hypothesis of fermentation. This was originally, at least in modern times, advanced by Vanhelmont, and was embraced by a large part of his contemporaries and successors.! It may indeed be considered as having been, for some time, the prevailing theory ; a circum- stance which we may ascribe, partly to the comprehensive, or rather the indeterminate sense in which the term was employed, and partly from the actual phenomena attending the process, which were more easily referable to this operation than to any other which was then recognized. * For an account of the effects of trituration, as given by some of the older physiologists, the rea- der is more particularly referred to the works of Pitcairn, who was one of the most learned men of his time ; Dissert, p, 72..95 ; Elem. cap, v. p. 25..7 ; see also Haller, El. Phys. xix. 5. 1; Hales, Statical Essays, v. ii. p, 174, 5; Cheselden's Anat. p. 152..5; Fordyce, ut supra, p. 124.. 138 : and Richerand, Physiol. * 18. + See particularly his singular treatise entitled " Sextuplex Digestio alimenti humani," where, together with much mysticism and false reasoning, we find many acute remarks and some curious in- formation. The merits, or rather the truth of this hypo- thesis rests, in some degree, upon the defini- tion of the term fermentation, or the mode in which it was employed by the writers of that period. As far as we can understand their meaning, and perhaps we may even say, as far as they themselves attached any definite idea to their own expressions, they ascribed to this process every change which the constituents of the body undergo by their action upon each other. Fermentation was therefore the cause of the morbid changes which the system expe- riences, as well as of its natural actions; it was equally the cause of fever and inflammation, as of secretion and digestion; and so far was this theory pushed, that even muscular contraction and nervous sensation were referred to certain fermentative processes. As our ideas on this subject became more correct, in consequence of the extension of our information, our language became more precise. The change which cer- tain vegetable infusions undergo in the forma- tion of alcohol was assumed as the type of this class of actions; the controversy then took a new aspect, and the question at issue was, whether the change of aliment into chyme and afterwards into chyle ought to be referred to the same class of operations with that by which sugar and mucilage are converted into alcohol. This question we shall be more able to answer satisfactorily when we have taken a view of the next hypothesis, that of chemical solution. The doctrine of chemical solution, as applied to the action of the stomach upon the aliment received into it, is, in many respects, very similar to that of fermentation, depending, as will be seen, partly upon the definition of the terms employed, and partly upon the minute obser- vation of the various steps of the process. The hypothesis owes its origin to the experiments of Reaumur, and was very much confirmed by those of Stevens and Spallanzani, so often referred to, and especially those of the latter experimen- talist, where chymification was produced out of the body, simply by exposing the various species of aliment to the gastric juice obtained from the stomach, in a proper temperature, and under circumstances, as nearly as possible, re- sembling those of the natural digestion.* Making a due allowance for the unavoidable causes of interference, the results maybe regard- ed as satisfactory, and they clearly prove one part of the hypothesis, that the vital operation of the stomach consists merely in providing the agent, and in bringing the alimentary substan- ces within the sphere of its action. This con- clusion is still farther sanctioned by the power of the gastric juice in suspending or correcting putrefaction, and in coagulating milk, both which properties are observed in experiments made out of the body, apparently in as great a degree as in the stomach itself, and which can only be referred to the chemical relations of the substances employed. These considerations must be allowed to be very favourable to the hypothesis of chemical solution, but still there are many very serious difficulties which we have to encounter, before we can regard it as * We may remark that the experiments of Dr. Beaumont lead us to the same conclusion.