119 EWTOZOA. bits a portion of muscle thus infested; a the adventitious cyst laid open, exposing the Hy- datid; a' the adventitious cyst elongated by the extension of the head and neck of the inclosed hydatid b in the direction of the muscular fibres. The cysticercus itself sometimes attains the size exhibited in Jig. 60, in which a indicates the Fig. 60. Fig. 61. Magnified head of Cysticerus celluloses. head, b the neck or body, and c the dilated vesicular tail. Fig. 61 exhibits the head sufficiently magnified to show the uncinated rostellum or proboscis d for irritation and adhesion, and the suctorious discs e e for im- bibing the surrounding nutriment. The occurrence of this Entozoon in the Hu- man Subject appears to be less common in this country than on the Continent. In the course of five years we have become acquainted with only two cases, one in a subject at the Dis- secting-Rooms of St. Bartholomew's, the other in a subject at the Webb-street School of Ana- tomy. Rudolphi relates that out of two hun- dred and fifty bodies dissected annually at the Anatomical School of Berlin, from four to five were found through nine consecutive years to be infested more or less copiously with the Cysticercus cellulose; for the most part the subjects had been of the leucophlegmatic temperament, but not affected with ascites or anasarca. The muscles most obnoxious to the Entozoon in question are the glutcei, psoas, iliacus internus, and the extensors of the thigh; they have been found also in the muscular tissue of the heart, and in parts not muscular, as the brain and eye. Soemmering detected one specimen of the Cysticercus cellulose in the anterior chamber of the eye of a young woman a;t. 18.* The following is a more re- cent account of a specimen which was deve- loped in the anterior chamber of the eye of a patient in the Glasgow Ophthalmic Infirmary. " Case.—From the month of August, 1832, till about the middle of January, 1833, when she was first brought to Mr. Logan, the child had suffered repeated attacks of inflammation in the left eye. Mr. L. found the cornea so nebulous, and the ophthalmia so severe, that he dreaded a total loss of sight. He treated the case as one of scrofulous ophthalmia; and after the use of alterative medicines, and the appli- cation of a blister behind the ear, the inflam- * See Isis, 1830, p. 717, as quoted by Norc'- mann, Mikrographisrhe Beitrage zur Naturgcschicte tier wirbellosen thiere. matory symptoms subsided, leaving, however, a slight opacity of the lower part of the cornea. After a week, the child was again brought to Mr. L., who, on examining the eye, disco- vered, to his great surprise, a semitransparent body, of about two lines in diameter, floating unattached in the anterior chamber. This body appeared almost perfectly spherical, ex- cept that there proceeded from its lower edge a slender process, of a white colour, with a slightly bulbous extremity, not unlike the pro- boscis of a common fly. This process Mr. L. observed to be of greater specific gravity than the spherical or cystic portion, so that it always turned into the most depending position. He also remarked that it was projected or elongated from time to time, and again retracted, sp as to be completely hid within the cystic portion ; while this, in its turn, assumed various changes of form, explicable only on the supposition of the whole constituting a living hydatid. " On the 3d April, when I examined the case, I found the cornea slightly nebulous, the eye free from inflammation and pain, and the ap- pearances and movements of the animal exactly such as described by Mr. Logan. When the patient kept her head "at rest, as she sat before me, in a moderate light, the animal covered the two lower thirds of the pupil. Watching it carefully, its cystic portion was seen to be- come more or less spherical, and then to assume a flattened form, while its head I saw at one moment thrust suddenly down to the bottom of the anterior chamber, and at the next drawn up so completely as scarcely to be visible. Mr. Meikle turned the child's head gently back, and instantly the hydatid revolved through the aqueous humour, so that the head fell to the upper edge of the cornea, now become the more depending part. On the child again leaning forwards, it settled like a little balloon in its former position, preventing the patient from seeing objects directly before her, or below the level of the eye, but permitting the vision of such as were placed above. Mr. Logan had observed no increase of size in the animal while it was under his inspection. Mr. Meikle had watched it carefully for three weeks without observing any other change than a slight increase in the opacity of the cystic portion. " To every one who had seen or heard of Mr. Logan's case, the question naturally occurred, Ought not this animal to be removed from the eye? Mr. Logan and Mr. Meikle appeared to have deferred employing any means for destroy- ing or removing it; first, because it seemed to be producing no mischief: and, secondly, be- cause there was a probability that it was a short-lived animal, and likely therefore speedily to perish and shrink away, so as to give no greater irritation than a shred of lenticular capsule. Various means naturally suggested themselves for killing the animal, such as passing electric or galvanic shocks through the eye, rubbing in oil of turpentine round the orbital region, giving this medicine internally in small doses, or putting the child on a course of sulphate of quiua, or some other vegetable