?40 HERNIA, intestine, from which the fecal discharge is constantly trickling, and as there is often a suffi- cient space for a portion of this to lodge and remain, it may prove a source of troublesome and dangerous ulcerations. In a short time the mucous membrane becomes everted and protrudes, often, if neglected, to the extent of several inches: it is a true prolapsus of the membrane, not very unlike the prolapsus ani in appearance. At the bottom of the cavity al- ready mentioned, are the orifices of the intes- tines, the superior of which is the larger, as it is from it the discharge proceeds, whilst the inferior is small and so contracted as frequently to be discovered with difficulty. The partition between the orifices is formed by the juxta- position and adhesion of the sides of the intes- tine : it is termed the " eperon" by Dupuytren, and is larger and more obvious when a portion of the bowel has been completely removed so as to divide the tube into two parts, smaller when only a knuckle has been pinched up and gangrened without engaging the entire circum- ference. To this " eperon" and double partition the mesentery is attached, and the functions of this membranous ligament are said to exert a very important influence on the progress and after-consequences of artificial anus. Not only is the superior portion of the intes- tine (that which is in relation with the stomach) larger, but its extremity being fixed by the new adhesions, the progress of its contents is greatly facilitated, and according to Dupuytren actually accelerated as to time. The inferior or rectal portion, not performing its functions, becomes diminished in calibre, and contains a white, pulpy, albuminous material, which is sometimes discharged by stool, but may remain undecom- posed within it for months or even years. The contracted condition of this portion of the gut is of the highest importance to be attended to in all instances where a recovery is possible or likely to be attempted. This disposition of all hollow structures in the body to accommodate themselves to the bulk or quantity of their con- tents has been already noticed, and to obviate the inconveniences likely to arise from such diminution, the older surgeons* strongly recom- mended the use of enemata, in order, amongst other advantages, to preserve the intestine in a sufficient state of distension. The progress and termination of a case such as has been under consideration may be ex- tremely variable. The aperture may be situa- ted in the lesser intestine so high up or so near the stomach that the space to be traversed by the aliments and their period of detention are shortened : their digestion is then incomplete and nutrition so far impaired that the patient sinks gradually, and dies from the effects of inanition; or a permanent artificial anus may be established without a hope or a chance of the natural passage ever being restored; and this seemed at one time to have been the great object of surgical practice in these cases, for we find M. Littre, a celebrated French surgeon, actually tying up the lower portion of the gut * See Louis' Memoir, loc. citat. when he could find it, as if to preclude for ever a possibility of the continuity of the tube being restored. This is a most deplorable condition, yet have patients endured the annoyance of a permanent discharge at the groin for a great length of time ; and in the Museum of the School in Park Street, there is a preparation taken from a man who had thus existed for upwards of ten years. There is a curious in- stance mentioned by Louis in which something resembling the regular action of a sphincter was clearly observable, and although the discharge of the faeces was involuntary, yet it was periodical, and the gut once evacuated remained closed until a new accumulation took place. This person, of course, was comparatively free from that constant trickling of feces which is the patient's chief annoyance, and which, if not palliated by some ingenious contrivance, abso- lutely renders his life loathsome. The natural passage of the feces has been restored. This is so desirable, so fortunate a consummation, and its practicability so clearly established by the circumstance of its being oc- casionally accomplished solely by the operations of nature, that it can be no matter of surprise if surgeons have laboured to attain it and dili- gently observed the entire process. An intes- tine of which a portion has sloughed away is placed in a very different condition from one that has been simply wounded. When an en- tire loop of bowel has been removed, the two portions within the abdomen passing down to the neck of the sac lie more or less parallel to each other, or approach by a very acute angle : they are in the same degree perpendicular to the ring, and between them is that double parti- tion termed "eperon" or buttress by Dupuy- tren, and the " promontory" by Scarpa. Novv as the intestines are fixed and fastened in this posi- tion, the canal can never again become conti- nuous in directum, and therefore any material that passes from the upper into the lower portion must do so by going round this inter- vening promontory. Even when only a small fold or knuckle has been lost, although the complete continuity of the tube is not destroyed, and the partition is less evident and prominent, still an angle must inevitably be formed of suffi- cient acuteness materially to impede the pro- gress of the feces. In neither case, then, can the wounded edge of one portion of the intes- tine come to be applied to that of the other, nor can adhesion or union by the first intention ever be accomplished between them. In lieu of this, however, the edges of the intestine be- come united with the peritoneum opposed to them, which must of necessity be the neck of the sac, and then if the external wound can be healed, a membranous pouch or bag is inter- posed between them, of a funnel-shape, and which serves as a medium of communication and of conveyance for the fecal matters from one portion of the tube into the other. Reflecting on this pathological condition of parts, it will not be very difficult to explain some of the varieties observed in cases of artificial anus. The chief obstruction to the re-establishment of the canal is the intervention of the promontory.