315 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. on the contact of food consequent upon the division of the infra-orbital and inferior maxil- lary nerves : and this view derives confirmation from the circumstance that in the instance under consideration the immobility of the lids is not the consequence of paralysis, for on the sudden admission of solar light into the eye, the action of the muscle was excited, and the eyelids were closed. The immobility of the eye itself the author cannot but regard as an incidental circumstance, caused by the com- plication to which Magendie himself refers, viz. the division of the motor nerves of the eye along with the fifth, and this explanation is rendered more likely, if not confirmed, by the effect of the section when made between the ganglion and the brain, in which case the motor nerves are not involved, nor the motion of the eye affected. It is to be regretted that Magendie has not given a report of a dissec- tion after death of some of the animals upon which the former experiment had been per- formed, by which the question might have been determined. The permanent contraction of the iris is an extraordinary and as yet unex- plained effect: it occurred only when the experiment was made upon rabbits, and is at variance with the results of similar experi- ments upon other animals, performed both by Mayo and by Magendie himself. In Mayo's* experiments, which were done upon pigeons, in no instance was contraction of the pupil caused by division of the nerves connected with the eye or its appendages. When the optic nerve was divided, the pupil became fully dilated. When the third nerve was divided, the same result ensued ; and when the fifth was divided, the iris contracted as usual on the admission of light; in Magendie's experiments again upon cats and dogs the pupil was en- larged.f The fact is, however, confirmed by Mayo, who found that when the fifth nerve was compressed in a rabbit after death, the pupil became contracted slowly and gradually, and then slowly dilated ; and when the nerve was divided, the pupil became contracted to the utmost, and remained so. A correspond- ing difference between the conditions of the pupil after death in the subjects of experi- ment has been observed by Mayo, according to whom in the pigeon and cat it is naturally dilated, but in the rabbit, on the contrary, contracted.^: It has been already stated that Magendie divided the nerve within the cranium both after and before the occurrence of the ganglion : in the latter case—when the section is made between the ganglion and the brain—the re- sults are different in some remarkable respects from those attending the section in the former: the effect upon the senses is equally marked ; but the motions of the globe of the eye are preserved almost always, from which the author would infer that the loss of those motions in the former must have been caused by the divi- * Comment, part ii, p. 4, 5. t Journal, t. iv. p. 309. t Physiology. sion of the motor nerves along with the fifth, by the side of the cavernous sinus ; and also the changes which occur in the tissues of the eye are much less considerable ; the inflamma- tion and opacity ensue, but not to the same extent. Another very remarkable result of the sec- tion is displayed in the animal's mode of pro- gression as related by Magendie : " when the two nerves are cut upon an animal it seems blind, and its mode of progression is most sin- gular ; it advances only with the chin leant strongly upon the ground, pushing thus its head before it, and using it as a guide as the blind does his staff: the progression of an animal in this state differs altogether from that of an animal simply deprived of sight; the latter guides itself easily by means of its whiskers, and by the sensibility of the skin of its face ; it stops at hollows, feels obstacles, and, in fine, it would be difficult to know whether it is blind or not; while the animal whose fifth nerves have been cut has but one mode of moving, and instead of avoiding obstacles, it persists often in pushing against them for several hours, so as finally to exco- riate the skin of the anterior part of the head."* This account, which is well calculated to excite at first extreme surprise, is after all strictly consistent, and illustrates strongly the importance of the nerves in question : in fact to the animal so circumstanced the head and face must be as a part which it does not possess, or rather of which it has been suddenly deprived, and which it yet believes itself to retain ; it can have no consciousness of their existence, while from habit, memory, and ignorance of the real condition of the parts, it yet believes them to be present, and to exercise all their usual func- tions. Thus the human being whose limb has been removed without any knowledge of what has actually occurred believes that he still pos- sesses it, acts as if he did, and is only con- vinced of his loss by the evidence of the senses of sight and touch. In like manner the ani- mal acts under the impression that it still possesses its ordinary faculties, and being altogether unconscious of the contact of ob- stacles in consequence of its loss of sensation in the part which encounters them, it acts as if it were not in contact with them, and endeavours still to advance, while it is unable to make use of sight, if this faculty be retained, as a a guide, because it has lost the correcting and regulating assistance of the sensation of its face as exercised through its whiskers; and hence it does not appear to the author that the apparent blindness of the animal proves real blindness. Unassisted sight cannot teach us the distance of objects ; and the animal sud- denly deprived of the faculty of sensation may see the object, but not being made aware of its contact, must suppose that it has not reached it, inasmuch as the usual notice of its presence is not given by the sensibility of the face. Lastly, when the nerves have been divided * Journ. de Phys. t. iv. p. 181.