560 ORGAN OF HEARING. the osseous portion of the auditory passage not being yet developed, the membrana tympani is found at first closer to the surface than after- wards; and its direction is oblique from above downwards, and from without inwards, so that it has a more or less horizontal position, corres- ponding to the base of the cranium. More is known of the origin and develop- ment of the tympanic ring in which the mem- brana tympani is framed. It appears later than the membrana tympani and the ossicles. A specimen of the tympanic ring before me, which was removed from an embryo at about the third month, is an incomplete ring of bone about one-tenth of an inch in diameter. It is about the thickness of a hair, except at its anterior extremity, which is broad and flat like a spatula, for the extent of about one-twelfth of an inch. The groove for the membrana tympani can be perceived with a magnifying glass. From the fifth month the tympanic ring is found more or less adherent to the rest of the temporal bone. In the lower Mammifera there are three parts developed from the tym- panic ring, viz. 1, the groove for the mem- brana tympani, 2, the bulla ossea, and 3, the osseous part of the auditory passage. In birds the tympanic ring is represented by the os guadrutum. In man there is no bulla ossea, only the groove for the membrana tympani and the osseous part of the auditory passage. The side of the tympanic ring external to the groove shoots out to form the osseous part of the external auditory passage, but so slowly that from the second to the sixth or seventh year, the lower surface of the auditory passage is still cartilaginous, although the outer orifice to which the cartilaginous part of the auditory passage is fixed is already ossified. About the twelfth year the passage is closed in by bone, and becomes quite complete towards manhood. The inner surface of the ring grows a little at the lower part, and helps, together with a process which extends from the petrous bone, to form the lower wall of the tympanic cavity. It is to be remarked that this inner part of the tympanic ring always remains distinct and is never changed so much as the external. Fig. 261. The tympanic ring, and the membrana tympani framed into it. The handle of the malleus is seen shining through tfte membrane. The whole outer wall of the cavity of the tympanum has been found wanting in a mon- strous foetus. Hyrtl, who mentions the case, says that the cavity of the tympanum itself was represented only by a very shallow depres- sion in the petrous bone, in which the skin of the auditory passage formed a cul-de-sac. The Eustachian tube was present. Hyrtl mentions another case in which the tympanic ring was much smaller than usual, and in which the membrana tympani presented in the direction of one of its radii, a large opening as if a piece had been cut out. The so-called hiatus R ivinianus ou^ht, perhaps, to be looked upon, as Husehke observes, as a defect in original formation. The membrana tympani has been sometimes found congenitally too large, some- times too small, sometimes of an elongated form, sometimes of a triangular form. A thickening and parchment appearance of the membrane, or ossification of it to a greater or less extent, if not always, appears to be more usually an acquired malformation. 2. The small bones of the tympanum.—The small bones are formed at a very early period. The malleus and incus appear before the stapes. The two former, according to Rathke and Valentin, appear like a small wart growing out from the posterior wall of the tympanum. The stapes is like a growth from the outer sur- face of the labyrinth; it appears as a small pyramidal wart flattened on the sides and thin in the middle, lying, according to Rathke, in a small funnel-like depression, the bottom of which is the future vestibular fenestra. According to Weber* the ossicles are not developed in the cavity of the mucous mem- brane of the tympanic cavity, but in a sac which is a continuation of the dura mater, and comes through a fissure between the petrous bone and the squamous portion of the tem- poral into the tympanic cavity. This situation of the ossicles at an early period corresponds with that of those discovered by Weber in the fishes already mentioned. By this mode of development, as far as regards situation, may be explained the dislocated state of the ossicles so frequently found in the irregular conditions of the ear. According to Meckel,! the ossicles are at the commencement of the third month pro- portionally very large, though still cartilaginous, and the stapes not to be distinguished from the incus. Thus, for example, the length of the malleus in a foetus of the fourth month amounts to three lines, whilst the length of the body from the vertex to the coccyx measures four inches, hence the lenght of the malleus is to that of the trunk as one to sixteen; whereas in the adult the proportion is only as one to ninety, the malleus being four lines long, and the distance between the vertex and the coccyx amounting to two-and-a-half feet. At birth the ossicles are as large as in the adult. Ossification of the small bones commences, according to Burdach,J about the twelfth week. Rathke and Valentin agree with Meckel, that ossification begins first and at the same time in the malleus and incus, and only afterwards in the stapes. In the malleus the first point of bone appears on the head, a second at the root * Hildebrandt's Anatomie, Band; i t Op. cit. torn. iii. p. 197. s. 1948. X Op. cit. Band. ii. p. 384. p. 39.