ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 809 with spots resembling ivory, while the upper surface of the lower fragment was widely ex- panded into a cup. We have, in our museum, a very remarkable specimen of this abnormal condition of the hip-joint. The upper or coty- loid fragment seems united to the acetabulum by an imperfect anchylosis, while the lower surface of this fragment represents perfectly the half of a sphere looking downwards ; the neck of the femur has been entirely removed, and a cup is hollowed out in the great trochanter to receive the convex surface of the upper frag- ment above alluded to. This surface, as well as the cavity formed in the trochanter, have the polish and hardness of ivory. The history of the case, as to how the functions of the joint had been performed, is unknown. The patient died in the Richmond Hospital, under the care of Dr. Hutton, of a disease unconnected with the chronic affection of the hip-joint. In the examination of old cases of intra-eapsular frac- ture, we have found the capsular ligament short and strong, as already mentioned, and that it retained the trochanters close to the brim of the acetabulum, the cervix femoris having been altogether removed. In a case which Mr. Bra- bazon and the writer examined lately, of an old woman who had fractured the neck of her femur several years before her death, and in whom there was shortening of the extremity for two inches and a half, the neck of the femur had altogether disappeared to its base The surface on the internal part of the shaft of the femur, from which the neck of the bone nomi- nally springs, was plane and smooth, and no vestige even of the lesser troeVianter existed. The under surface of the globular-shaped head of the femur was removed to the exact level of the brim of the acetabulum, in which the re- mainder of the head was still retained by an inter-articular ligament, which seemed to have been reduced to the structure of loose cellular membrane. The acetabulum of this side, too, was evidently smaller than that of the opposite side, and the cartilage covering it, and that also investing the remnant of the head of the bone, were partially removed. From want of use, it would appear that all these parts were in a state of atrophy. In this respect there was a correspondence between the internal and exter- nal structures of the broken limb, for the whole extremity was deformed, shortened, and, as is usual, much reduced in size when compared with the opposite limb. Union by means of a ligamento-cartilaginous substance is by no means uncommon. In this case, as in almost all others, the neck of the thigh-bone altogether disappears, and the trochanters are brought up to the level of the acetabulum, which still re- tains the remnant of the head of the bone. The broken surfaces are united closely enough to each other by a fibrous substance, and this union is sufficiently analogous to that which we frequently see in cases of fractured olecra- non or_patella. We have spoken of a species of fracture which is called the impacted fracture. In this case the femur is broken generally at the basis of the neck, not far from the inter-trochanteric lines: sometimes it is only the under part of the neck which is broken, and then the frac- ture is only partial; but generally the compact tissue all round this portion of the neck is, by an accident, cracked across, and the superior fragment, that is, the whole of the cervix femoris, is impacted into the cellular structure of the superior extremity of the shaft of the femur (figs. 319, 320). The limb is shortened half an inch, and in general everted. In the Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. ii. Mr. Colles has given a aood delineation of this species of fracture. In Sir A. Cooper's work, also, similar specimens maybe seen of this impaction of the upper frag- ment. " La realite de ce fait interessant" seemed new to the editors of Dupuytren's " Lemons Orales,'' in 1832, in which we find it stated that the superior fragment of the broken neck of the thigh-bone is sometimes driven into the thick- ness of the spongy texture of the superior ex- tremity of the inferior fragment, and the conso- lidation is effected readily enough. To con- clude in the words of the Lecons Orales : " plusieurs pieces d'anatomie pathologique, tirees du Museum de l'Hotel Dieu, et represen- tant les fragmens ainsi consolides, ont ete mon- trees a l'amphitheatre, et ont convaincu chacun de la realite de ce fait interessant. II est utile de noter cette cause de deviation; elle peut rend re compte, suivant les cas, de quelques faits exceptionnels de deviation du pied en dedans dans la fracture du col du femur, faits excep- tionnels, qui ont ete observes par plusieurs auteurs."* In the museum of the Richmond Hospital we have some specimens of this frac- ture. Fig. 319 represents a section of the supe- Fig. 319. rior extremity of the femur of a woman who met with this species of fracture. The history of her case, as recorded in the catalogue, is as follows :—" Mary M'Manus, a;t. 52. Fracture of the neck of the femur external to the cap- sule. The upper fragment has been driven down, and has become firmly impacted in the cancelli of the shaft of the bone. The trochan- * Lemons Orales, torn. ii. p, 100.