INSECTA. 959 has passed half-way along the oesophagus, (Jig. 428, h,) whenit divides into two branches, which pass on each side of the oesophagus as far as the gizzard, (i,-) where each forms a very minute ganglion, from which are given a few filaments to the substance of the gizzard. Fig. 417. Brain, sympathetic ganglia, and vagus nerve of Lucajius cervus. Each nerve thus passes on to the stomach, (k,) and we have succeeded in tracing it about half-way along that organ, when it can be followed no far- ther, being lost by minute subdivisions. As con- nected also with the vagus nerve both in func- tion and by analogy of distribution, is the nerve which we noticed so particularly in the larva, the glossopharyngeal, (jig. 418, f,) which is remarkably distinct in Lucanus, and as in the larva gives branches to the under-surface of the oesophagus. It is remarkable, also, that in this insect each root of the vagus arises from a ganglion on each side, situated below the cere- bral lobes, but closely connected to them, and from which ganglion the antennal nerves (d) ori- ginate, and a third nerve, which is directed backwards among the muscles, but the course of which we have not yet traced, but which probably is a compound nerve ; it appears to be formed in part by the ganglion, (e,) and partly by a portion of the cerebrum, which is united to it. Fig. 418. Under-surface of brain, fyc. of Lncnmis cervus. The form which the frontal ganglion usually assumes is nearly triangular, but in some in- stances, as in Carabus monilis, it is elongated, oval, lying transversely across the pharynx, but in almost all the insects we have examined, ex- cepting the Bi/prestida and some of the Or- thoptera both in the larva and pupa state, as in Timarcha, Mcluc, Anthophora, and Jiumbus, whatever be its form, the single nerve continued from it has more resembled in its distributions and relations the vagus than the sympathetic. These are the reasons for our continuing to de- scribe it as the former rather than as the latter of these nerves. The fact, however, of its dis- position to form ganglia in its course appears, indeed, as observed by Professor Miiller,* to assimilate it most in character with the sympa- thetic ; but we conceive this fact to be satisfac- torily explained by the anatomy of these nerves in Buprestis, in which the middle or recurrent nerve, although exceedingly short, is very large, and is terminated by a ganglion, as in the GryUida:, and from which, in Buprestis, two small nerves are continued along the oeso- phagus, while the corresponding nerves in Gryllus have become approximated to those from the lateral ganglia, and assist to form the long gangliated nerve at the side of the oesopha- gus. The functions of the vagus and sympa- thetic in insects would thus appear to be nearly similar, and that, as is sometimes the case with these nerves in veitebrata, as we have seen, for example, in the neck of the calf, the two become often closely approximated together, as noticed also by Professor Miiller, in the Myxinoid Fishes, in which the vagus and sympathetic form only one nerve, the chief portion of which is the vagus, and which is extended to the anus. * MUllcr's Archiv, No. v. 1837, Jalircsbrcsht, p. lxxxv. to viii.