765 HIBERNATION. respiration is inversely as the degree of irritabi- lity of the muscular fibre, the former being marked by the quantity of oxygen consumed in a given time, ascertained by the pneumatome- ter,* the latter by the force of galvanism neces- sary to demonstrate its existence. The bird tribes have a high respiration and a low irrita- bility ; the reptiles have a high degree of irrita- bility and little respiration. This law obtains not only in the different tribes of animals, but also in the different stages or states of the same individual, the structural changes from one stage to another being always a change from a lower to a higher respiration, and from a higher to a lower degree of irritability, and the change of state, a change in the opposite direction : thus the changes from the egg to the bird, from the tadpole to the batrachian form, from the larva to the chrysalis and the insect condition, are changes in which, whilst a due ratio is con- stantly maintained, the quantity of respiration is augmented and the degree of irritability diminished; on the other hand, the physiolo- gical changes in the degree of activity in ani- mals, during sleep, for example, but especially in that remarkable change which is the subject of this article, the respiration is diminished whilst the degree of irritability is, pari passu, augmented. On what this susceptibility of change de- pends, and especially on what the power of taking on an augmented irritability depends, is at present unknown. But 1 think I may affirm that it is upon this power that the capability of passing into the state of hibernation reposes. I suppose that all animals have the faculty of sleeping; during sleep the respiration is slightly diminished, the irritability probably proportio- nately augmented—probably one ultimate ob- ject of this state of repose; but the phenomenon has its appointed limit which it cannot pass. In certain animals, that limit is not so con- fined,—the quantity of respiration is still further diminished, the decree of irritability still further augmented, and the deeper sleep, or lethargy, of hibernation takes place. During this lethargy, the law of the inverse ratio of the respiration and of the irritability still prevails, and the animal merely puts on a reptile state in these respects. Were the respi- ration to be diminished without the appointed augmentation of the irritability, the heart would cease to be stimulated, and the animal would die, as in the cases of torpor and slow asphyxia; were the respiration augmented without the proportionate diminution of the irritability, the heart would be over-stimulated, and death would alike ensue, as in the case of a hiberna- ting animal too suddenly roused from its lethar- gy, and as (probably) in the case of an animal placed in pure oxygen gas. The difference between the hibernating and all other animals then is, an ultimate faculty of assuming an augmented degree of irritability of the muscular fibre-—a power possessed by all animals within certain limits, but by the hiber- nating animal beyond the usual limit. * See Phil. Trans, for 1832, p. 323. Sleep, however inscrutable in itself, is the connecting link between the two physiological states; a disquisition on hibernation is, there- fore, a disquisition on sleep—on profound sleep. It will shortly appear that one eminent philoso- pher has fallen into the error of assimilating different physiological phenomena by neglect- ing to take this fact into his consideration. Sleep and hibernation are similar periodical phenomena, induced by similar causes, leading to similar effects, and differing only in degree. Hibernation appears more extraordinary only because less familiar than sleep. Most animals are, in fact, naturally awake and asleep every revolving day, some being diurnal, others noc- turnal. But in summer the bat actually hiber- nates, loses its respiration, and with its respira- tion its temperature, acquires vastly augmented irritability, and presents the other phenomena of complete hibernation, regularly and periodi- cally every twenty-four hours ; and the hedge- hog and the dormouse present simiiar pheno- mena, only after other intervals. Sleep then is the first stage of hibernation. The faculty of passing into the second is iden- tical with that of assuming a greatly augmented irritability of the muscular fibre. Such are the results of my long attention to this interesting physiological question. Much error has arisen from viewing hibernation as a simple effect of cold. The influence of cold in inducing hiber- nation is merely its well-known influence in inducing sleep, concurring with the other causes of this condition. The direct effect of cold on the animal frame is, as I shall shortly have occasion to state particularly, totally different from hibernation. Hibernation is a physiolo- gical condition; the direct effect of cold, or torpor, is, on the contrary, a pathological and generally a fatal one. The term hibernation has usually been ap- plied to designate what its etymology implies, the condition in which certain animals pass the winter season. An error is, as I have already stated, involved in this view of the subject; for the condition termed hibernation is not con- fined to the winter season. Cuvier observes, in speaking of the Tenrecs, " ce sont des ani- maux nocturnes qui passent trois mois de l'annee en lethargie, quoique habitants de la zone torride. Burguifere assure meme que c'est pendant les grandes chaleurs qu'ils dorment."* Hence the term Sommerschhif employed in Ger- many. It is plain too, from this circumstance, that the state of hibernation is not necessarily connected with a low degree of external tempe- rature, and we are surprised to find this cele- brated naturalist, whom I have just quoted, observing, " la seule condition de la lethargie est le froid et l'absence des causes irritantes." f I must repeat that hibernation is, in every respect, but the parallel of ordinary sleep, vary- ing only in force and duration. It is equally marked by an inexplicable periodicity; it is equally modified by cooperating or opposing * Regne Animal, ed. 1829, t. i. p. 125. t Histoire des Sciences Natuielles, 1829, t. i. p. 280.