ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HEART. 639 tion in all probability preceding and giving rise to the hypertrophy by rendering an increased force of contraction necessary. Simple hyper- trophy is the least common, according to Bouillaud ; concentric hypertrophy, according to this physician, is not rare. Considerable doubt, however, has been excited recently by the high authority of M. Cruveilhier as to the real existence during life of such a condition as this. This anatomist believes the diminished cavity to be merely the result of a tonic con- traction of the muscular wall of the ventricle in death. " The concentrically hypertrophied hearts of Bertin and Bouillaud appear to me," he says, " to be hearts more or less hypertro- phied, which death surprised in all their energy of contractility."* The hearts of all those examined by Cruveilhier, who died by the executioner, presented to his observation to a great degree the double phenomenon of in- creased thickness of walls and diminished cavity, and he has observed the same with per- sons who died a violent death.f On one occa- sion I was particularly struck with a similar condition of the heart of a donkey which had been accidentally transfixed by a large trocar, whereby the death of the animal was caused in a few minutes. The muscular structure of the heart was singularly dense. It had contracted at its apex quite to a sharp point, and on cut- ting into it the cavity of the left ventricle ap- peared almost obliterated, and the muscular wall much increased in thickness. I have many times, too, observed the fact noticed by Cruveilhier, that the cavity may be easily en- larged or restored to its natural dimensions by introducing the finger and dilating it, or still more easily, if the heart have been macerated in water for a short time previously. This fact is further confirmed by Dr. Budd, who sup- ports the views of Cruveilhier in an interesting paper in the last volume of the Medico-Chimr- gical Transactions. In one of Dr. Budd's cases the thickness of the parietes of the left ventricle eighteen hours after death varied from an inch to an inch and a half, on a transverse section made at a distance from the apex of one-third of its length, and the cavity was not large enough to hold the second phalanx of the thumb, and was almost filled by the carnece columnae. This heart, in its open state, was put to macerate; no force ivas applied to extend it. At the end of some days, on being folded up, it was found to have dilated very conside- rably, so that the left ventricle could not then be said to be smaller than natural. Dr. Budd argues against the existence of the diminished cavity from the fact that of eight cases collected by him, no one afforded signs, either during life or after death, of any obstacle to the circu- lation through the heart. There were no irre- gularity of pulse, no dropsy during life, no di- latation of the right cavities after death, pheno- mena which, it may be said, must of necessity be present if there be an obstacle to the circu- * Diet, do Med. et Chir. Prat. art. Hypertrophic, t Mr. Jackson and Dr. Budd have observed this state of the heart in persons who died of cholera. lation in the heart. It is impossible, as he states, to conceive that a left ventricle, which could scarcely hold an almond, should offer no obstacle to the circulation through the heart. Yet Laennec has recorded a case in which the parietes of the left ventricle had acquired the thickness of from an inch to an inch and a half, and the cavity seemed capable at most of con- taining an almond stripped of its shell. Yet the day before the patient's death his pulse was natural, the breathing perfectly free, " and nothing," says Laennec, " led me to suppose that this man had a disease of his heart." Hypertrophy with dilatation.—It is in this morbid condition that the heart acquires the greatest increase of size as well as the most striking alteration of form. The cor bovinum of some authors, so called from its enormous size, affords an instance of an extreme develope- ment of this form of disease. The extent to which the heart may become enlarged in this way is quite extraordinary. Of certain cases recorded by Bouillaud, in one the right ventri- cle was large enough to contain a goose's egg, and the left, still larger, the closed hand of a female; in another, the left ventricle was simi- larly increased in capacity. In a third, the right auricle of a child, aged seven years, was so dilated as to contain a coagulum as large as the closed hand of an adult. The thickness of the left ventricle in Bouillaud's cases varied from 7 to 14 lines, that of the right 3 to 5 lines; but in some instances it was as considerable as from 8 to 10 lines or 11 to 16 lines. The weight of the heart, in some instances, trebled the na- tural ; thus in one case of general hypertrophy the weight was 22 ounces, and others weighed from 13 to 20 ounces. The circumference of the heart was often increased to twelve inches, the longitudinal diameter five inches, and the transverse eight inches. In a patient who died at the Hotel Dieu in 1834, the heart measured fifteen inches and a half at its base. Hypertro- phy seldom occurs in the auricles, except when accompanied by dilatation : the musculi pecti- nati are generally the seat of the increased mus- cular developement, and as the number and developement of these muscular columns is greater in the right auricle than in the left in the normal state, (in the left they ara only found in the auricular appendage,) the remark of Dr. Hope follows almost as a matter of course, namely, that in the right auricle hypertrophy proceeds to the greatest extent, its walls being sometimes rendered nearly equal in thickness to those of the right ventricle in the normal state. In the vast majority of cases of this kind the produces of inflammatory states of the pericar- dium or endocardium, or its appendages, are present; in short, a diseased slate of the valves constantly co-exists with hypertrophy and dila- tation. These conditions of the cavities are very frequently traceable to some obstacle to the cir- culation through the heart, and sometimes it would seem that the valvular disease preceded and gave rise to the hypertrophous and dilated cavity; but it is not impossible nor unlikely that the valvular disease may follow the hyper-