716 HERMAPHRODITISM. woman at the middle period of life, without any indications of the catamenial fluid being merely mechanically retained, we may perhaps suspect with reasonable probability the exist- ence of a diseased state which has destroyed either successively or simultaneously the func- tions of both ovaries. In such a case the dis- tinctive secondary peculiarities of the female sex come to give place to those of the male. Thus Vaulevier mentions an instance in which menstruation suddenly ceased in a young and apparently healthy woman; no general or local disease followed ; but soon afterwards a perfect beard began to grow upon her face.* Again, in women who have passed the period of their menstrual and child-bearing life, and in whom consequently the functions and often the healthy structure of the ovaries are lost or destroyed, we have frequently an opportunity of observing a similar tendency towards an assumption of some of the peculiarities of the male; an in- crease of hair often appears upon the face, the mamma? diminish in size, the voice becomes stronger and deeper toned, the elegance of the female form and contour of body is lost, and frequently the mind exhibits a more determined and masculine cast. Women, both young and aged, with this tendency to the male cha- racter, are repeatedly alluded to by the Roman authors under the name of viragines ; and Hip- pocrates f has left us the description of two well-marked instances. Among the females of the lower animals a similar approach to the male character in the general system not unfrequently shows itself as an effect both of disease and malformation of the sexual organs, and also in consequence of the cessation of the powers of reproduction in the course of advanced age. Female deer are sometimes observed to become provided at puberty with the horns of the stag,! and such * Journ. de Med. torn. lxix. and Meckel in Reil's Arch. Bd. xi. s. 275. Meckel quotes other similar cases from Seger in Ephem. Nat. Cur. Dec. i. Ann. ix. and x. obs. 95; Vicat, sur la Plique Polonaise, in Murray's Pr. Bibl. Bd. i. s. 578.'; and Schurig's Parthenologia, p. 184. Burlin pub- lished an express treatise on the subject, De barba mulierum ex menstruorum suppressione, Altorf. 1664. See also Haller's Elem. Phys. torn. v. p. 32; Reuss, Repert. Comment, torn. x. p. 205; Eble, Die Lehre von den Haaren in der organischen Natur. Bd. ii. s. 222. Vien. 1831 ; and Mehliss, Ueber Virilescenz und Rejuvenescenz thierischer Korper. Leipz. 1838, who quotes several cases additional to those of Meckel. * De Morb. Vulg. lib. vi. ss. 55, 56. " Abderus Phaetusa, Pythei conjunx, antea per juventam fcecunda erat; viro autem ejus exortante, dinar- ticulos exorti sunt. Quae ubi contigerunt, turn cor- pus virile, turn in universum hirsutum est reddi- tum, barbaque est enata, et vox aspera reddita. Sed cum omnia quae ad menses deducendos facerent tentassemus, non profluxerunt, verum hand ita multo post vita funcla est. Idem quoque in Thaso Namysiae, Gorgippi conjugi, contigit." Hippocr. Op. ed. Foesii, p. 1201. % Camden's Angl. Norm. (1603) p. 821. Lan- celot Eph. Nat. Cur. Dec. i. ann. ix and x. obs. 88. Ridinger's Abbild. Seltener Thiere Taf. 79, or Meckel in Reil's Archiv. fur die Physiol. Bd. xi. p. 273. animals are generally observed to be barren,* probably in consequence either of a congenital or acquired morbid condition of their ovaries or other reproductive organs. In old age, also, after the term of their reproductive life has ceased, female deer sometimes acquire the horns of the male in a more or less perfect de- gree ;f and Burdach alleges that roes sometimes become provided with short horns when they are kept from the male during the rutting sea- son, and at the same time furnished with abun- dant nourishment.! Mehliss ยง alludes to two cases in which a virilescent type was shewn principally in the hair of the female deer. In one of these instances the hair of the head, neck, and abdomen, the shape of the ears and extremities, and the odour of the animal, gave it the closest resemblance to the male, and it followed the other females as if urged by sexual desire. This kind of acquired hermaphroditism in aged females has, however, been more fre- quently and carefully attended to as it occurs in Birds than as met with among the Mamma- lia, the change to virilescence in the former being more marked and striking than in the latter, owing to the great difference which gene- rally exists between the plumage of the male and female.|| When old female birds live for any considerable period after their ovaries have ceased to produce eggs, they are usually ob- served to assume gradually more or less of the plumage and voice, and sometimes the habits also of the male of their own species. This curious fact, first pointed out by Aristotle U in relation to the domestic fowl, has now been seen to occur in a number of other species of birds, but particularly among the Gallinaceae. It has been in modern times remarked in the common fowl (P/iasianus gallus) by Tucker, Butler, and Jameson; in the common pheasant (P. colchicus) by Hunter and Isidore St. Hilaire; in the golden pheasant (P. pictus) by Blumenbach and St. Hilaire ; in the silver pheasant (P. ni/chemerus) by Bechstein and St. Hilaire; in the turkey (Meleagris) by Bechstein ; in the pea-hen (Pavo) by Hunter and Jameson ; and in the partridge (Tetrao perdnx) by Montagu and Yarrell. Among the Cursores it is mentioned as having occurred in the bustard (Otis) by Tiedemann, and in the American pelican (Platalea aiaia) by Catesby. In the order Palmipeds it has been observed by Tiedemann and Rumball in the * Wildungen, Taschenbuch fiir Forst- und Jagd- freunde, s. 17. t Otto's Path. Anat. by South, p. 166, s. 123, n. 18, for list of cases. t Phys. vol. i. ยง 183, p. 318. ยง Ueber Virilescenz Thierisch. Koerper; or British and Foreign Med. Review, vol. vi. p. 77. || It occurs also more frequently among birds than among mammalia, from the former possessing only a single ovary. % " Gallini, cum vicerint gallos, concurrunt ma- resque imitandi subagitare conantur. Attollitur etiam crista ipsis, simul et clunes (uropygium) ; adeo ut jam non facile diagnoscantur an fceminae sint. Quibusdam etiam calcaria parva surrigun- tur." Hist. Animal, lib. ix. cap. 36.