158 EXTREMITY. ous with the posterior thick edge of the spine of the scapula, and viewed from above ap- pears to be merely an expansion of it. The narrowest part of the process is where it seems to spring from the spine, forming a sort of pedicle. Its posterior surface is convex, rough, covered with fibrous tissue in the recent state; its aspect is upwards and backwards. Here the process is quite subcutaneous as the pos- terior part of the spine of the scapula. The anterior surface is concave, smooth, looks downwards and forwards to the posterior and superior part of the shoulder-joint. The posterior or inferior edge of the process con- tinuous with the corresponding edge of the spine of the scapula forms a curve, convex downwards and outwards, and terminates in the pointed extremity or apex of the pro- cess ; all this edge affords attachment to the deltoid muscle. The superior edge is con- cave ; near the apex we observe upon it a plane oval articular surface to which the acromial extremity of the clavicle is articulated; into this edge the trapezius muscle is inserted. The apex of the acromion, which is imme- diately in front of the articular surface for the clavicle, gives insertion to the apex of the liga- ment, whose base is attached to the outer edge of the coracoid process. The scapula is connected to the trunk through its articulation with the clavicle, but chiefly through the intervention of muscles, so that muscles are inserted into all its edges, and its surfaces are " cushioned with muscles." It is, then, as might be anticipated, a very moveable bone, and its motions consist in more or less extensive revolutions round an axis through its centre. This bone, then, being the medium of connexion between the pectoral extremity and the trunk, it is evident that the great move- ments of the former must depend upon the movements produced in the scapula by the muscles which pass to it from the trunk; more- over, when some of these muscles fix the scapula, it becomes the point whence the others act in producing the motions of the ribs. The scapula, then, is an essential element in the upper extremity, and it exists wherever we find that limb in a perfectly developed state, but it experiences various modifications in position and shape according to the uses to which the upper extremity is applied. In quadrupeds the position of the scapula is more forwards and on the side of the chest, for in them the anterior extremity is employed as an instrument of support. It is interesting to observe the variation in the aspect of the glenoid cavity, according to the oblique or upright position of the scapula, indicating whether the pectoral extremities are used chiefly as instruments of support or as instruments of prehension, Stc. When freedom and rapidity of motion are required conjoined with strength, we find the scapula placed obliquely over the ribs, and a corresponding obliquity between the humerus and scapula. " In the horse, as in most quadrupeds, the speed results from the strength of the loins and hinder extremities, for it is the muscles there which propel the animal. But were the anterior extremities joined to the trunk firmly and by bone, they could not withstand the shock from the descent of the whole weight thrown forwards; even though they were as powerful as the posterior extremities they would suffer fracture or dis- location. We cannot but admire, therefore, the provision in all quadrupeds whose speed is great, and whose spring is extensive, that, from the structure of their bones, they have an elastic resistance by which the shock of descend- ing is diminished. " If we observe the bones of the anterior extremity in the horse, we shall see that the scapula is oblique to the chest, the humerus oblique to the scapula, and the bones of the fore-arm at an angle with the humerus. Were these bones connected together in a straight line, end to end, the shock of alighting would be conveyed through a solid column, and the bones of the foot or the joints would suffer from the concussion. When the rider is thrown forwards on his hands, and more certainly when he is pitched on his shoulder, the collar-bone is broken, because in man this bone forms a link of connexion between the shoulder and the trunk, so as to receive the whole shock; and the same would happen in the horse, the stag, and all quadrupeds of great strength and swiftness, were not the scapula sustained by muscles and not by bone, and did not the bones recoil and fold up." " The horse-jockey runs his hand down the horse's neck in a knowing way and says, ' this horse has got a heavy shoulder, he is a slow horse.' He is right, but he does not under- stand the matter; it is not possible that the shoulder can be too much loaded with muscle, for muscle is the source of motion and bestows power. What the jockey feels and forms his judgement on is the abrupt transition from the neck to the shoulder, which, in a horse for the turf, ought to be a smooth undulating surface. This abruptness or prominence of the shoulder is a consequence of the upright position of the scapula; the sloping and light shoulder results from its obliquity. An upright shoulder is the mark of a stumbling horse—it does not revolve easily to throw forward the foot."* A comparison between the skeleton of the anterior extremity in the elephant and in one of the stag kind illustrates how the oblique position of the scapula is favourable to rapidity of motion, while the upright position is that most calculated for supporting weight. In the elephant the glenoid cavity of the scapula is placed vertically over the head of the humerus, and all the other component parts of the limb are similarly disposed, so as to form a complete pillar of support for the trunk. Hence the attitude of standing in the elephant requires but slight muscular effort, and in this position he is in such complete repose as often to obtain sleep. In this animal, then, the angle between the scapula and humerus is nearly obliterated, but in the stag it approaches closely to a right angle, the scapula is oblique to the ribs, and * Sir Charles Bell, Bridgewater Treatise*'