EXCRETION. 151 liquides. Cette vesicule, par sa vitalite propre, absorbe une partie du fluide qui l'entoure; ce fluide est ou de l'eau presque pure, et alors elle en est simplement impregnee et lubrifiee ; ou de l'eau plus ou moins chargee de cette matiere gommeuse, elaboree dans les feuilles, et d'autres matieres alimentaires qui peuvent se trouver portees avec la seve dans les diverses parties. Lit vesicule qui Pa absorbte lui J'ait subir une action determin'ce d'apres sa propre nature, et cette action modifie les materiaux contenus dans la cellule, de maniere a en faire, ou l'une des matieres communes que nous avons considerees, ou l'une des matieres que nous aurons bientot a examiner, telles que les huiles volatiles, les resines, &c. Certains vaisseaux analogues a la nature des cellules jouent le meme role sous ce rapport. Les matieres ainsi localement elaborees peuvent, ou rester dans les cellules ou les vaisseaux qui leur ont donne naissance, ou s'extravaser au dehors et donner lieu, soit a des excretions, soit a des transports des matieres d'une partie a 1'autre du tissu."* The description given by Dutrochet of the act of secretion as it may almost be detected in the glands of the lower classes of animals, is exactly similar. " Entre les vesicules qui composent le tissu organique des animaux rampentles vaisseaux sanguins, chez les animaux a circulation : ces vesicules sont appliquees sur les parois des vaisseaux; et il est certain que la cavite des vesicules ne communique point immediatement avec la cavite des vais- seaux, puisque le meme fluide n'existe point dans leurs cavites. Ce fait est tres facile a verifier, en examinant au microscope le tissu d'un organe secretive chez un mollusque gas- teropode, celui de la foie par example : on voit toutes les vesicules de cet organe remplies par la bile, que Ton distingue a sa couleur, tandisque les vaisseaux sanguins qui cotoient ces vesicules n'ont que la diaphaniete que leur donne l'etat incolore du sang qui les remplit. Ainsi, les vaisseaux sanguins n'existent que comme des moyens d'irrigation pour les vesi- cules qu'ils cotoient, et ce n'est peut-etre que par filtration que le fluide sanguin penetre, en si modifiant, jusque dans ces vesicules elemen- taires. Le systeme sanguin, considere dans son entier, forme une cavite sans issue, dans laquelle rien ne peut entrer, et de laquelle rien ne peut sortir, autrement que par filtration."f Any one who is acquainted with the elabo- rate " Vasorum Lymphaticorum Historia" of Mascagni, will recognize the perfect accordance of this statement with the result of his careful and minute investigation of the structure of the secreting organs in the higher animals.} We may consider, then, the act of secretion, en derniere analyse," as consisting simply in * Physiol. Vegetale, p. 215. t L'agent immediat du mouvement vital devoile, &c. p. 192. J It must Dot be considered as ascertained, that the files or tracks of globules of blood seen under the microscope, and usually called capillaries, have really, in all animals, aud all parts of these, vascular coats. It seems pretty certain, that in the passage of certain portions of a compound fluid through a thin living membrane, and the exclusion of others; or, according to the for- tunate expression of Dutrochet, as a chemical filtration. " All that is necessary for any kind of secretion in a living animal," says Mr. Mayo, " is a vascular membrane, and all the arrangements of the glands appear to be merely contrivances for conveniently packing a great extent of such a surface in a small compass." And if we are asked, to what cause we can ascribe this escape of certain matters from the circulating fluid through one portion of mem- brane, and of others through another, we can only answer, in the words of this last author, that it depends on the exercise of certain " vital affinities,'' peculiar to the living stale, and the existence of which will always be an ultimate fact in Physiology, although we may attain to a knowledge of the laws according to which they operate. V. One principle may already be laid down, almost with certainty, as to the exercise of these powers in the present instance, viz. that the peculiar matters characterizing the excretions are not actually/brmerf from the blood at the parts where they appear, but only separated from the blood at these parts,—their formation, if not actually completed, having been at least considerably advanced, in the blood itself which reaches these parts. Of this we are well assured, chiefly by the following facts. 1. The experiments already mentioned, first made by Prevost and Dumas, have proved that within a short time after the extirpation of the kidneys in animals, urea may be detected in the blood, showing clearly that the existence of these glands is not necessary to the forma- tion of this very peculiar excrementitious matter, and giving us reason to conjecture that the office of the kidneys is, not to form the urea, but to attract it out of the blood as fast as it is formed there. The same existence of urea in the blood has been ascertained in the human body, both in cases of diseased kidneys, when the excretion there was much impeded, and in cases of malignant cholera, when the excretion was suppressed. The cases of rapidly fatal jaun- dice al ready mentioned, where the bile-ducts were pervious and empty, would seem to have been cases where the peculiar matter of the bile has been in like manner formed in the blood, without finding the usual vent at the liver. And it will appear under the head of Respira- tion, particularly from the experiments of Dr. Edwards, and of Collard de Martigny, that there is good reason to believe the carbonic acid of expired air to be formed in the course of the circulation, and only exchanged for oxygen at the lungs. 2. There are various instances in disease, of substances generally found in the secretions of certain glands only, being deposited in situa- tions quite unusual, and where no texture similar to these glands exists; e. g. cholesterine, many cases they are only lines or membranes, or channels in a solid parenchyma ; but still the obser- vation in the text applies strictly to the escape of any particles of the circulating fluid from them.