HERMAPHRODITISM. Heft ii. of the pelvis represented in fig. 296, in which s marks the divided symphysis pubis, and p the Fig. 296. peritonaeum. The os vaginae shewed no vestiges of the membrane of the hymen, or, in other words, was without carunculae myrtiformes. The canal of the vagina (fig. 296, v) was about two inches long, but without ruga?, and it ter- minated internally in a completely blind extre- mity or cul-de-sac. The uterus was entirely wanting, as were also the Fallopian tubes and uterine ligaments. The internal organs of reproduction were, on the other hand, completely male. The two testicles (fig. 295, g g) were situated in the region of the pubis, and were scarcely clear of the inguinal rings. They were of the usual ovoid figure, and natural in size. They had internally the structure of the tubuli seminiferi, but it was not well developed. The spermatic cords were quite normal both in regard to their composition and the origin and course of their bloodvessels. The right spermatic artery (fig. 295, 1) arose, as usual, from the renal, and the corresponding vein (?«), after forming the pampiniform plexus (A), opened into the vena cava inferior; while on the left side the artery (/) arose from the aorta, and the vein (in) ter- minated in the left emulgent. The epididymes of the testes were also of the usual vermiform figure, and the corresponding vasa deferentia (fig. 295 & 296 h h) coursed towards their vesi- culae seminales (fig. 296, j), and terminated in an attenuated membranous expansion without any external aperture or ducti ejaculatorii. The vesicula? seminales (see the left one j in fig. 296) were placed between the urinary blad- der (o) and rectum (r); they were smaller and more shrunk than those of the adult male, though certainly they preserved their naturally oblong form. Their internal hollow or tubular structure was indistinct. The prostate gland was not present. The urinary bladder (o) and ureters (n n), the rectum (r), and the other intestinal viscera, with the abdominal blood- vessels (s, the aorta, f, the vena cava, fig. 295) seem to have been all quite natural. The head of the above individual was of the usual size, the neck long, and the stature ordinary. The periphery of the thorax was so expanded as almost to equal that of the male, notwithstanding the presence of well pro- nounced mammas. The face, although entirely free from hair, had yet neither the expression of that of a female nor of a male, but shewed more of that mixed character which is seen in the eunuch. The pelvis was altogether that of a male in its form and dimensions, and the limbs were perfectly masculine. According to information collected after death, the voice was deep, and the temperament strong and firm. Though there was never any menstruation, yet, from being constantly employed in domestic occupation, the mental character was feminine, and die married state had been willingly entered into. 2. Transverse hermaphroditism with the ex- ternal sexual organs of the male type.—The male organs that are present consist of the penis, which is provided with a regular formed prepuce, glans, corpora cavernosa, and corpus spongiosum, with the urethra perforating it, and of the prostate gland, verumontanum, &c. The co-existing female organs are the ovaries, the Fallopian tubes with their infundibula, and the uterus. We are not aware of any recorded instances of this variety of hermaphroditic malformation among the lower animals. We have already, under the head of spurious hermaphroditism in the female from enlargement of the clitoris, &c, mentioned several cases, in which, from excessive developement, the external organs in women had assumed some of the characters of the corresponding parts in man; but the two following cases described by Professors Esch- richt of Copenhagen, and Bouillaud of Paris, present instances of malformation in which the more exterior sexual organs were all formed upon the male, and the internal upon the female type. a. The subject of the case described by Eschricht* was a twin child that died verj shortly after birth, and in whom the external sexual organs were of the male type, and the internal female. The penis (fig. 297, a) and scrotum (b) were well developed, but the usual raphe seen upon the latter was absent. The urethral canal of the glans and body of the penis was pervious throughout, and admitted of a sound being easily passed into the bladder. The glans was remarkably thin and slender. The prepuce could be easily pushed back. No testicles could be felt in the scrotum, and in- ternally there was an uterus with Fallopian tubes and ovaries. The uterus (c) was about an inch in length, and had the general form presented by this organ in female infants. It contained a cavity marked with ruga;, but had no orifice inferiorly, nor any vagina attached to it. Its blind or imperforate neck was firmly attached to the posterior walls of the urinary bladder (g), while its fundus was directed very obliquely downwards and over to the left side. From the left side of the fundus of the uterus a twisted Fallopian tube (d) proceeded, having * Muller's Archiv fuer Anatomie, &c. 1836,