202 EYE. dow of the iris may often be seen in aerescentic form on a cataract; and in such persons, whe- ther from this cause or from the inflammation not being of the adhesive character, blindness is more frequently attended with dilated pupil. In breaking up cataracts through the cornea, I have repeatedly satisfied myself of the con- tact or close vicinity of the two surfaces by placing the needle between them. The an- nexed outline section, from the work of Sbm- merring, shews how small he considered the space between the iris and lens, and displays accurately how the posterior chamber is formed by the iris an- teriorly, the lens pos- teriorly, and the cili- ary processes at the circumference, with the small circular portion of the hyaloid mem- brane of the vitreous humour between the ciiliary processes of the choroid and the circumference of the lens. It appears to me unaccountable why sur- geons, with these anatomical facts before them, still continue to introduce the needle into the posterior chamber, to break up cataracts, in- stead of passing it through the cornea into the anterior chamber, where ample space exists, and a full view is obtained of all the steps of the operation. In doing so the needle is thrust through opaque parts among delicate structures, into a narrow cavity, where, hidden by the iris, it can be used with little certainty of correct application. At the same time, instead of penetrating the simple structure of the cornea, which bears injury as well as any other struc- ture of the body, the instrument pervades the fibrous sclerotic, a structure impatient of in- jury and prone to inflammation, punctures the ciliary ligament at the imminent risk of in- juring one of the ciliary nerves or even wound- ing the long ciliary artery, and finally passes through one of the most vascular parts in the body, the corpus ciliare. The practice appears a signal instance of the influence of education, habit, and authority in setting improvement at defiance. The proofs afforded of the close vicinity of the margin of the pupil to the cap- sule of the lens, should remind the surgeon that one of the greatest dangers to be ap- prehended in iritis is the adhesion of these two parts, and that one of the first steps in the treatment should be to separate them by the application of belladonna, which, by its pecu- liar influence on the pupil, dilates that aper- ture, and, consequently, brings its margin more opposite the circumference of the lens and at a greater distance from the prominent central portion. The aqueous humour, although constituting so essential a part of the optical mechanism of the eye, is but small in quantity; according to Petit not more than four or five grains. Its specific gravity and refractive power scarcely differ from that of water; and according to Berzelius, 100 parts contain 98.10 of water, 1.15 of chloruret of soda with a slight trace of alcoholic extract, 0.75 of extractive matter soluble in water only, and a mere trace of albumen. It is perfectly transparent, but is said to be milky in the foetus. The source from which this fluid is derived has been the subject of controversy in con- sequence of Nuck, a professor of anatomy at Leyden, having asserted that he had discovered certain ducts through which it was transmitted, and published a small treatise to that effect, which ducts were proved to be vesssels by a cotemporary writer, Chrouet, in which deci- sion subsequent authors have concurred. In the present day this fluid is generally believed to be secreted by a membrane lining the cavity, as the fluid which lubricates the serous cavities is secreted by their lining membranes. Al- though this is in all probability the fact, the circumstances are not exactly the same in both cases. In the serous cavities, merely as much fluid as moistens the surface is poured out, while in the chamber of the aqueous humour sufficient to distend the cavity is secreted. In the serous cavities the membrane from which they derive their name can be demonstrated ; in the chamber of aqueous humour this can scarcely be accomplished. I have resorted to various methods to enable me to demonstrate the existence of the membrane of the aqueous humour on the back of the elastic cornea, such as maceration, immersion in hot water, soaking in alcohol, and treating with acids, alkalis, and various salts, but without effect. In describing the structure of the cornea, I have shewn that the elastic cornea itself can- not for a moment be considered the membrane in question, on account of its strength, thick- ness, elasticity, and abrupt termination; and I do not think that the demonstration of a serous membrane expanded on such a struc- ture as transparent cartilage is to be expected, inasmuch as the demonstration of the synovial membrane on the cartilages of incrustation in the joints is attended with much difficulty. The pathological fact which tends most to prove the existence of such a membrane here, is, that in iritis, especially that of a syphilitic character, the aqueous humour appears often very muddy, especially in the inferior half of the chamber; this, however, in the latter stages may be found to arise from a delicate speckled opacity on the back of the cornea, which re- mains permanently, and injures vision con- siderably. Analogy also favours the inference that the whole cavity of the chamber must be lined by serous membrane, inasmuch as all structures, of whatsoever nature they may be, in the serous or synovial cavities, are so covered or lined. This provision is so universal, that if such various structure, as the elastic cornea, iris, capsule of the lens, ciliary processes, and hyaloid membrane, which enter into the con- struction of the chamber of aqueous humour, be exposed to the contact of the fluid without