HERMAPHRODITISM. 729 Professors Osiander* and Fei!er,f maintain with equal inaccuracy that every supposed in- stance of hermaphroditism is referable to a hypospadic state of the penis and scrotum, in persons that are in other respects essentially male. Various physiologists, again, while they ad- mit the occurrence of all the different varieties of spurious hermaphroditism, are inclined to deny that anv such combinations of male and female organs upon the same body as those which constitute our several varieties of true hermaphroditism, are ever observed to occur in the human subject, or among the higher classes of animals.f In despite of the recent accumulation of new and authentic cases, Pro- fessor Muller of Berlin is, in particular, in his excellent treatise on the development of the genital organs, published in 1830,§ still in- clined to coincide in a great degree in this opinion. This distinguished physiologist does not indeed, as some have done, doubt in any degree the authenticity of the recorded cases, and even goes so far as to admit the occasional occurrence of a combination of male and female organs upon the same individual, when that combination does not (as in lateral and trans- verse hermaphroditism) imply a true sexual duplicity or repetition of any of the cor- responding male and female parts; but he doubts altogether the probability of our third division of double or complex hermaphroditism, and conceives that in the examination of the cases referable to that section a sufficient degree of attention has not been directed to the ac- curate anatomical distinction of the particular parts supposed to exist, from others with which it is possible to confound them. We shall here, therefore, shortly inquire into some of the principal sources of fallacy which are apt to mislead the incautious observer in the examina- tion of such instances as those to which we allude ; and in doing so we shall consider the various sources of error in an order conformable with those divisions of double hermaphroditism that we have previously adopted,—speaking of the mistakes which may be committed in judg- ing of the supposed co-existence, 1st, of a female uterus, and male vesicula; seminales and vasa deferentia ; 2d, of a female uterus and male testicles, &c.; 3d, of both testicles and ovaries. 1. Fallacies in judging of the addition of male seminal ducts to a female tape of sexual organs.—That form of sexual duplicity which we have formerly described as consisting in the supposed superaddition of male vesiculae semi- nales and vasa deferentia to an organization in other respects female, appears to have been * Neue Denkwuerdigk. fur Geburtshiilfe. Bd. i. n. 8. t Ueber Angeb. mensliche Misbildung. Land- shut 1820. f Thus Portal, Anat. Med. t. v. p. 474; Haller, El. Phys. t. viii. p. 7, " merito dubitatur j" Voigtel, Handbuch der Path. Anat. Bd. iii. s. 364; Lawrence, Art. Generation, in Rees's Cyclopaedia. § Bildunsgeschichte der Genitalien. hitherto observed principally, or indeed only among the Ruminantia, and has in particular been repeatedly found in free-martin cows. In judging of the reality of this variety of herma- phroditic malformation in any given case, there is one source of fallacy that requires to be par- ticularly guarded against, and the consideration of which may probably go far to explain away most of the recorded examples of the mal- formation. In the female sexual parts of some Ruminantia and Pachydermata,* but particu- larly in the domestic cow and sow, Dr. Gaert- ner of Copenhagen pointed out in 1822f the existence of two canals or ducts which have since that time been generally described under his name. On each side of the body, one of these ducts arises in the vicinity of the ovary, or near the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube, runs dov."n first in the duplicature of the broad ligament, and afterwards in the sub- stance of the parietes of the uterus and vagina, to near the meatus urinarius, and there opens into the vaginal cavity. Each duct communi- cates with several small glands, follicles, or cysts that are scattered along its course, and which perhaps may not be improperly described as diverticula from the ducts themselves. Now when we consider the relations of those imper- fect ducts and cysts that are occasionally ob- served in the free-martin cow, situated along- each side of the defectively developed uterus, and which Mr. Hunter has described as male vasa deferentia and vesiculae seminales, it seems to us not at all improbable that these supposed male organs are only in reality the ducts of Gaertner, with their accompanying follicles or cysts generally perhaps existing in a morbidly developed and dilated condition. They seem at least to correspond much in their origin, course, and position with the canals and cysts discovered by Gaertner; and certainly in the present state of our knowledge it would appear more reasonable to refer them to this normal portion of the female structure, than to regard them, until we have more decided evidence on the subject, as abnormal male organs, and as affording, in consequence, an example of sexual duplicity. In the course of the preceding pages we have had occasion to allude to cases in the human subject, and in the dog and sheep, in which vasa deferentia were stated to have existed in the same individual along with Fallopian tubes. Whether, in any of these instances, the supposed male seminal ducts were merely canals analogous to those described by Gaertner in the cow and sow, we shall not take it upon us to determine, but in connection with this inquiry it is interesting to remark that Malpighi, who seems to have been well ac- quainted with the existence of the ducts in the * M. Delmas seems to have observed a somewhat similar structure in the Kangaroo. (Ephem. Medic, dc Montpellier, t. v. p 115.) t Anatomisk Beskrivclse over et ved Nogle Dyr- Ai'ters uterus nndersogt Glandulbst organ, &c. Co- penhagen, 1822; Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. xxi. p. 460.