INSECTA. 973 Fig. 430. Fig: 431. Alimentary canal of Sphinx ligustri. the pollen in the canal leading to the bag, in the oesophagus, and in the stomach itself. A gizzard does not exist either in the Diptera or Lepidoptera, but there is a slight rudiment of it in the Sphinx (i). The stomach of Lepidop- tera is in general short, oval, or a little elon- gated (k), and always very muscular, and as in other insects, the hepatic vessels (p) enter at its pyloric extremity (q). The ilium (/) is of considerable length. In the Sphinx it makes seven folds, and then passes straight to the A Umentary canal of Pontia brassicee. colon, which is developed anteriorly into a very large coecum (///), and terminates in a narrow short rectum («). Throughout its whole course it is covered by the hepatic vessels. In the Pontia brassica (fig. 431), the digestive sto- mach is preceded by a very muscular and transversely banded portion of canal resembling the stomach of Hymenoptera. It is in the pre- cise situation of the gizzard in other orders, and appears to be the representative of that part in tliis insect. The true stomach is long and oval, and the ilium is longer than in the Sphinx, and the ccecum, colon, and rectum are all distinct. In the Diptera the alimentary canal is usually very long, and is scarcely at all shorter in the carnivorous than in the omnivorous feeders. Appendages of the canal.—The first of these, the salivary glands, are very frequent in most of the orders, but vary greatly in form and number. In Lepidoptera they are simple elongated tubes (A), which extend into the thorax and are convoluted beneath the oeso- phagus and anterior portion of the alimentary canal. In the larva they constitute the silk vessels, and empty themselves by a single duct through the spinneret on the floor of the mouth. They are formed of three por- tions ; first, the excretory, which is thin and transparent, and is gradually enlarged as it passes backwards along the body; second, the apparently secretory portion of the organ, which is of an elongated cylindrical form, externally transversely marked as if formed of muscular fibres, and internally covered with a vast number of rounded glandular bodies, as we