INSECTA. 943 two distinct columns of fibres, placed one upon the other, and closely united together in every instance. The under or external column, which is nearest to the exterior of the body, is that in which the ganglia or enlargements are situated. The upper one, or that which is internal and nearest to the viscera, is entirely without ganglia, and passes directly over the ganglia of the under column without forming part of them, but in very close approximation to them. In some species, as in the larvae of Timarcha tenebricosa, (fig- 404, 2, 3, 4,) and Proscalabams vulgaris, among the Coleoptera, and of the Bee and other Aculeate Hymenop- tera, this column is more apparent than in the larvae of Lepidoptera, in which it is indistinctly seen, excepting when it is beginning to pass over or is just leaving the surface of a ganglion. Fig. 404. A. Nervous system of the larva of Timarcha teneltricosa. ii, natural size. The ganglionics? upper or internal column of fibres is the part which we believe to be analogous to the motor column of verte- brata, and the external or under one, in which the ganglia are situated, we regard as the ana- logue of the sensitive. Thus the two cords are each composed of a motor and a sensitive co- lumn, and represent, we believe, the cerebro- spinal system of vertebrate. In the Aculeate Ilymenoptera, the ganglia of the cords are in a state of development similar to those of the Talitrus ; they are approximated together late- rally, but still remain distinct from each other, and thus present a transitory condition in the larva state of an insect similar to their perma- nent one in the lower Crustacea. In the Timar- cha, the anterior pair, or supra-casophageal gang- lia, still continue distinct from each other, (fig. 405, A A,) and retain their rudimentary form, as in the Talitrus, and the cords are also sepa- rated ; but the several pairs of subcesophageal ganglia have each coalesced into a single mass. Fig. 405. A A The supra-aesophageal ganglia, or brain of larva of Timarcha tenebricosa. ( Newport, Phil. Trans.) A similar coalescence of the ganglia, but car- ried to a less extent, exists in the larvae of Lepidoptera, in which the form of the ner- vous system of insects has been most frequently examined. Malpighi and Swammerdam ex- amined this structure in the Silkworm, and Lyonet in the larva of the Goat-moth, Cossus ligniperda. We have also examined it in the larva of the Privet Hawk-moth, Sphinx ligustri, in which we shall now describe its general form and distribution. Curd and nerves of the larva.—In the larva of the Sphinx, (fig. 406,) as in most others of the vermiform type, the nor- mal number of double ganglia is thirteen. The anterior pair (A) situated above the oeso- phagus, represent the brain, and the first of those which are situated below it, (/»,) the medulla oblongata. These are the proper ganglia of the head or first segment, and the cords by which they are connected together, and which descend one on each side of the oesophagus, in like manner represent the crura. Posteriorly to the medulla oblongata, which we shall distinguish as the first subcesophageal ganglion, the cords pass directly backwards into the second segment, where they form the se- cond subcesophageal ganglion (2). They then