12 DIGESTION. of these is a large membranous bag, analogous to the paunch of the ruminants, into which the food, without any previous alteration, is re- ceived from the oesophagus, and where it is macerated in the usual manner by the conjoined action of heat and moisture. The gizzard is of much smaller dimensions than the crop, composed of four muscles, two of which are of a flattened form and of very dense texture, lined internally with a firm cal- lous membrane, and capable of an extremely powerful action. These constitute the main part of the parietes, the two other muscles being much smaller, and situated at the extremities, serving, as it would appear, merely to com- plete the cavity.* The gizzard is so connected with the crop, that the food, after due macera- tion, is allowed to pass by small successive portions between the two larger muscles; by their contraction they are moved laterally and obliquely upon each other, so that whatever is placed between them is completely triturated. The force of these muscles, as well as the impenetrability of their investing membrane, is almost inconceivably great, so that, according to the experiments of Spallanzani and others, not only are the hardest kinds of seeds and grains reduced to a perfect pulp, but even pieces of glass, sharp metallic instruments, and mineral substances, are broken down or flattened, while the part still remains unin- jured.f The action of both the crop and the gizzard must be regarded as at least essentially mechanical, mainly adapted for the purposes of maceration and trituration, and as compen- sating for the saliva and teeth of man and the greatest part of the mammalia. We are able in this case to observe the connexion between the habits of the animals and the peculiarities of their organs more clearly than with regard to the ruminants, for we can always perceive an intimate relation between the food of the different kinds of birds and the structure of their stomach. II. An account of the nature of the substances usually employed as food.—All the articles that are employed in diet may be arranged under the two primary divisions of animal and vege- table, according to the source whence they are derived. Those in which the distinctive cha- racters are the most strongly marked differ both in their proximate principles and their ultimate elements, although in this, as in most other cases, there are many intermediate shades. The ulti- mate elements of vegetables are oxygen, hy- drogen, and carbon, to which, in some cases, a portion of nitrogen is added. Animal sub- stances contain all these four ingredients, the carbon being in less quantity than in vege- * Grew, ubi supra, p. 34; Bluinenbach, ubi supra, §99; Pcjer, Anat. Ventr. Gall., in Man- get, Bibl. Anat. t. i. p. 172; Hunter on the Ani- mal G3conomy, p. 198-9; C'lift, in Phil. Trans, for 1807, pi. 5, fig. 1 ; Home's Lect. v. ii. pi. 49, 62 ; and the ait. Avp.s. t Spallanzani, Dissert, i. § 5 .. 8, and 10. . 22 ; see also Acad, del Cimento, p. 268,9 ; Borelli, De motu anim. t. ii. prop. 189; Redi, Esperiense, p. 89 et seq. ; Grew, ch. 8 ; the art. " Birds" in Rees ; and " Aves" by Air. Owen, in the present work- tables, while the hydrogen, and still more the nitrogen, are generally in much greater quan- tity. There are various circumstances which seem to prove that either species of diet is alone competent to the support of life, although each of them is more especially adapted to certain classes of animals. This, it is pro- bable, depends both upon the chemical and the mechanical nature of the substances in question, but perhaps more upon the latter than the former, for we find that the processes of cookery, which act principally upon mecha- nical principles, render various substances per- fectly digestible, which the stomach could not act upon before they had undergone these operations. We also find that animals, which, in their natural state, have the strongest in- stinctive predilection for certain kinds of food, may, by a gradual training and the necessary preparation of the articles employed, have their habits entirely changed, without their health being in any degree affected. There is, however, a circumstance in the structure of the animal, which clearly points out a natural provision for the reception of one species of food in preference to the other, viz. the comparative capacity of the digestive or- gans. It may be concluded that, in all cases, the aliment must undergo a certain change before it can serve for the purpose of nutrition, and that this change will occupy a greater length of time, and that a greater bulk of materials will be requisite, according as the nature of the food received into the stomach is more or less different from the substance into which it is to be afterwards reduced. Hence, as a very general rule, we find that the diges- tive organs of carnivorous animals are less capacious than those of the herbivorous, and that even in the latter there is a considerable difference, according as the food consists of seeds and fruits or of the leaves and stems of plants. There are indeed certain circumstances in the habits of some of the carnivora which require organs of considerable capacity, as, for ex- ample, those beasts of prey who take their food at long intervals, being supplied, as it were, in an occasional or incidental manner, so that it becomes necessary for them to lay up a considerable store of materials, and to take advantage of any opportunity which presents itself of replenishing the stomach. The anato- mical structure of the human digestive organs indicates that man was intended by nature for a mixed diet of animal and vegetable aliment, but with a preponderance towards the latter ;* and it appears in fact that, while a suitable combination of the two seems the most condu- cive to his health, and to the due performance of all his functions, either species is alone competent to his growth and nutrition.f * Cuvier, Regne Animal, t. i. p. 86; Lawrence's Lect. p. 217 et seq. ; see also the elaborate dis- sertation of Richter, De victus animalis antiq. &c. t Haller, El. Phys. xix. 3. 2 . . 4 ; these sections contain a very full account of the different kinds of diet employed by different nations or individuals. We have a number of curious facts of this kind in