ENTOZOA. 120 bitter known to be inimical to the life of the Entozoa. As the patient appeared to be in perfect health, it was natural to suppose that the other organs were free from hydatids, and that a change of diet would have little or no effect upon the solitary individual in the aque- ous humour. Had she, on the contrary, pre- sented a cachectic constitution, with pale com- plexion, tumid belly, debility, and fever, none of which symptoms were present, we should have been led to suspect that what was visible, in the eye was but a sample of innumerable hydatids in the internal parts of the body, and might have recommended a change of diet, with some hopes of success. In the course of six weeks after I saw the patient, the cysticercus having enlarged in size, the vessels of the con- junctiva and sclerotica became turgid, the iris changed in colour, and less free in its motions, while the child complained much of pain in the eye; it was decided that the operation of ex- traction should be attempted, and I owe to Dr. Robertson of Edinburgh, who operated, the communication of the following particulars. The incision of the cornea was performed with- out the slightest difficulty, but no persuasion or threats could induce the child again to open the eye; she became perfectly unruly, and the muscles compressed the eye-ball so powerfully that the lens was forced out, and the hydatid ruptured. The patient was put to bed in this state. In the evening Dr. R. succeeded in getting the girl to open the eyelids, when with the forceps he extracted from the lips of the incision the remains of the animal in shreds, it being so delicate as scarcely to bear the slightest touch. A portion of the iris remained in the wound, which nothing would induce the girl to allow Dr. R. to attempt to return. " After the eye healed, the cornea remained clear, except at the cicatrice, where it was only semitransparent; the pupil, in consequence of adhesion to the cicatrice, was elliptical, and the opaque capsule of the lens occupied the pu- pillary aperture. The patient readily recog- nized the presence of light." The Cysticercus cellulosa occurs also in quadrupeds, and is found most commonly and in greatest abundance in the Hog, giving rise to that state of the muscles which is called " measly pork." Of the Cestoid Ol der of Entozoa two species belonging to different genera infest the Hu- man Body. The Swiss and Russians are troubled with the Bo'thriocephdlus latus; the English, Dutch, and Germans with the Tama solium: both kinds occur, but not simulta- neously in the same individual, in the French. It is not in our province to dwell upon the medical remedies for these parasites, but we may observe that the old vermifuge mentioned by Celsus, viz. the bark of the pomegranate, is equally efficacious and safer perhaps than the oleum terebinthina commonly employed in this country for theexpulsion of theTape-worm. From the singular geographical distribution, as it may be termed, of the above Cestoid parasites, the Bothriocepnalui latus rarely falls under the observation of the English Enlozoo- logist. It may be readily distinguished from the Tenia solium by the form of the segments, which are broader than they are long, and by the position of the genital pores, which occur in a series along the middle of one of the flat- tened surfaces of the body, and not at the mar- gin of each segment as in the Tania solium. The head, which was for a long time a deside- ratum in natural history, has at length been dis- covered by Bremser. It is of an elongated form, two-thirds of a line in length, and presents, in- stead of the four round oscula Fig. 62. characteristic of the true Tania, two lateral longitudinal fossae, or bothria, (a a, Jig. 62, which is a highly-magnified view of the head of the Bothrioce- phalus latus.) The Tania solium (Jig. 63) attains the length of from four to ten feet, and has been ob- served to extend from the pylo- rus to within seven inches of the anus of the human intes- tine.* Its breadth varies from one-fourth of a line at its an- terior part to three or four lines towards the posterior part of the body, which then again diminishes. The head is small, Head of Bothrio- and generally hemispherical, cephalm latus broader than long, and often magnified. as if truncated anteriorly: the Fie 63. Tcenia solium, two-thirds natural sixe. \ * See Robin, in J urnal de Medecinc, torn. xxv. (1766), p. 222.