397 GASTEROPODA. when that organ is protruded, is sufficiently distinct, admitting with facility an ordinary bristle (fig. 194, I). On slitting up the penis as it usually lies retracted into the visceral cavity, its inner membrane is found gathered into longitudinal folds, and this provision is needful to allow of that distension which must occur during its erection, at which time this lining membrane becomes the external integu- ment of the protruded organ. These parts would seem sufficient in them- selves to fulfil the functions belonging to the organs of both sexes, nevertheless we find others superadded, the uses of which are not so readily assignable; these are the bladder, as it is called by Cuvier, the multifid vesicles, and the sac of the dart. The sac which has been called the bladder (fig. 190, z, fg. 194, o) is invariably present; it consists of a round vesicle, variable in size, communicating by means of a canal, generally of considerable length and diameter, with the termination of the matrix : it is usually found filled with a thick and viscid brownish matter, and is generally supposed to furnish an enve- lope to the eggs as they escape from the con- voluted oviduct, an opinion, however, as we shall afterwards see, which is not without op- ponents. The multifid vesicles (fig. 190, x, fig. 194, c) are much less constantly met with, and are in fact almost peculiar to the snail; they are two groups of cceca, each composed of about thirty blind tubes, which after uniting into larger canals ultimately form a principal duct on each side, through which the secretion which they furnish is poured at a little distance below the orifice leading to the bladder into the passage by which the ova are expelled. The fluid furnished by these curious glandular appendages is white and milky, but as this secretion is almost peculiar to the genus Helir, its use is extremely problematic. The sac if the dart (fig. 190, y, fig. 194, b) is another part of the generative apparatus only found in the snail, and from the extraordinary instrument which it conceals is perhaps the most singular appendage to the generative sys- tem met with in any class of animals. It is an oblong sac with strong muscular walls opening by a special aperture into the common generative cavity, like which it is capable of complete inversion. On opening it, its cavity is seen to be quadrangular, and at its bottom projects a four-sided fleshy tubercle, which secretes the curious weapon that this sac is destined to conceal. This (fig. 194, b) con- sists of a four-sided calcareous and apparently crystalline spike, about five lines in length, which grows by successive layers deposited at its base from the surface of the fleshy tubercle to which it is attached : it will be evident that when the sac is everted, the dart contained within it will be protruded externally. This dart, if broken off from its place of attachment, is speedily renewed. To complete our description of the parts composing this complex organisation, it remains only to mention the common generative cavity Generative organs of Helix Pomatia. (fig. 194, a), into which the others open; this, when in its ordinary position, is a muscular bag, opening externally by a large aperture near the upper tentacle on the right side of the neck, whilst at its bottom are seen the orifices of three distinct passages, one leading to the penis, one to the female organs, and a third to the sac of the dart. This cavity, like that of the dart, is capable of inversion, which is effected partly by the action of its muscular walls, aided in all probability by a kind of temporary erection, and when thus turned in- side out, the orifices leading to the penis, the womb, and the sac of the dart of course become external. In order to understand the functions of these various parts it will be necessary to describe at length the singular mode in which copulation is effected. When two snails, amorously dis- posed, approach each other, they begin their blandishments by rubbing the surfaces of their bodies together, touching successively every part. This preliminary testimony of affection lasts for several hours, gradually exciting the animals to more effective demonstrations. At the end of this time the generative orifice, placed on the right side of the neck, is seen to dilate, and the common generative cavity becoming gradually inverted displays ex- ternally the three apertures which open into it. This being effected, an encounter of a truly unique character commences; the opening- leading to the sac of the dart next expands, and that organ undergoing a similar inversion displays the dart affixed to its bottom. A series of manoeuvres may then be witnessed of an unaccountable description; each snail, in turn, inspired with an alacrity perfectly foreign to its ordinary sluggish movements, striving with his dart to prick the body of his associate, which with equal promptitude endeavours to