MUSCLES OF THE HAND. 520 short aponeuroses along all the outer edge of the first metacarpal bone. Relations.—With the exception of a small portion of its external border, this muscle is covered anteriorly by the preceding muscle. It covers the anterior surface of the first meta- carpal bone, and its articulation with the tra- pezium. It draws the thumb inwards, turning it upon its own axis, so that it opposes its palmar aspect to the other ringers. 3. Flexor brevis pollicis manus (trapezo- phalangien, Cruveilh.) is a larger muscle than the two preceding ones, triangular, bifid supe- riorly, having its anterior surface channelled; arises by aponeurotic and fleshy fibres, exter- nally from the fore and under part of the annular ligament, and from the process of the trapezium, internally and posteriorly from all the reflected portion of the annular ligament, forming the sheath for the radial flexor and extending to the os magnum, and from the os magnum often by a distinct portion. From these various origins the fleshy fibres run downwards and outwards, are more oblique as they are more internal, and terminate in a strong fleshy bundle which is attached to the external sesa- moid bone and outer side of the first phalanx. Relations.—This muscle is covered by the external palmar aponeurosis, more internally by the tendon of the long flexor of the thumb, then by the common flexor tendons. It covers the first dorsal interosseous, the tendon of the radial flexor of the wrist, and a small portion of the external margin of the adductor of the thumb. Its outer edge corresponds to the abductor and is often confounded with the opponens, and its inner would be undistin- guishable from the abductor near the first meta- carpal bone, if it were not separated from it by the arteria magna pollicis,*—a fact that appears to have been overlooked by many anatomists, or the descriptions of the attachments of this muscle would never have been so much at variance: the foregoing description coincides with that of Meckel and Cruveilhier. Its tendon of insertion is covered by that of the abductor, which is external to it. This muscle is badly named, at least if names be intended to denote action, for its power of flexing the thumb is very slight; but it has considerable power as an opposer of it, its insertion being especially favourable to that action. 4. Adductor pollicis manus (metacarpo-pha- langien dupouce, Chauss.) is the largest muscle of the thumb as well as the most internal; in shape it is a perfect triangle, arising from all the anterior border of the third metacarpal bone, from its articulation with the magnum, from the anterior and superior portion of the trapezoid, and from the palmar interosseous aponeurosis in its central portion. From this extensive attachment the fibres run transversely outwards, the superior ones being most oblique; they converge to a strong fleshy bundle, which * Also deep in the palm, it is generally sepa- rated from the adductor by the deep palmar arch. is inserted by means of the internal sesamoid bone into the first phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—Its two internal thirds are covered by the lumbricales and common flexor tendons, also by a layer of the deep interosseous apo- neurosis which constitutes its sheath. It covers the two first interosseous spaces. Its inferior border is subcutaneous, especially posteriorly, where it may be felt in the fold of skin extend- ing from the index finger to the thumb.* Its name implies its action; it draws the thumb towards the median line of the hand. b. Muscles of the internal palmar region.— There are four muscles in this region also; one is a cutaneous muscle, the palmaris brevis; the others are proper to the little finger, and are inserted into the inner side of its first phalanx and the fifth metacarpal bone. They consist, as the last described set, of an abductor, short flexor, and an opponens minimi digiti. 1. Palmaris brevis (peaucier de. la main, Cruveilh.) This muscle when it exists, (for in weakly subjects its fibres are often not to be distinguished, though on the other hand it acquires considerable volume in those that are muscular,) arises by aponeurotic intermingled with fleshy fasciculi which run horizontally inwards, forming a small quadrilateral muscle which terminates in the skin. Relations.—Covered by the skin and im- bedded in the adipose substance, it is spread over the muscles of the little finger and the ulnar artery and nerve, from which it is sepa- rated by the internal palmar aponeurosis. It increases the concavity of the palm by puckering the skin over the part it occupies, thereby drawing the hypothenar eminence for- wards and outwards, and rendering it more convex. 2. Abductor minimi digiti (pisi-phalangien, Cruveilh.) A long flat muscle, broadest at its centre, arising from the pisiform bone and from an expansion of the flexor carpi ulnaris, by strong aponeurotic fibres, which soon become fleshy, running along the inner edge of the fifth "metacarpal bone. It ends in a flattened tendon, which is inserted in common with the short flexor into the inner side of the first phalanx, sending an expansion into the extensor tendon. Relations.—It is covered by the internal palmar aponeurosis, itself covering the oppo- nens. Jjse,—Jt draws the little finger inwards and forwards, separating it from the others. * Sometimes this muscle is separated into two bellies, the one superior and the other inferior, which are completely separate from each other, and of which the superior is by far the greater. Ill this case the first arises solely from the os magnum or from this bone and a small portion of the superior extremity of the third metacarpal bone, while the second arises from the inferior portion of the anterior head of the third, fourth, and some- times even the fifth metacarpal bones; it runs transversely outwards and a little backwards to meet the superior head at the first phalanx of the thumb. This anomaly resembles the normal con- dition of the transverse and oblique adductors of the great toe. Meckel, Anat. vol. ii. p. 185.