HERNIA. 763 sac, and it was generally believed that no such investment had any existence in the disease. Garengeot in his paper on singular species of hernia? expressly states that ruptures of this kind were deficient in this particular, and he was followed by Petit and almost all the elders of our profession, who, to spare themselves the labour of investigation, copied from each other errors as well as truth. It is really curious to observe how a mistake could have so long maintained its ground that could have been set at rest by half-an-hour's dissection; and indeed it is in some respects surprising how such an opinion came to be entertained at all. In every case of umbilical hernia there must of neces- sity be a sac, because the peritoneum is not deficient at the navel, and the vessels that pass within the cord do not enter the cavity: they lie anterior to it, and are partly invested by the membrane, which is entire and complete behind the navel, and neither intestine nor omentum can be protruded without pushing it out before it, and thus constituting a proper hernial sac. It may be that in large umbilical hernia? the peri- toneum shall have become very thin, so that the peristaltic motions of the intestines may be easily perceived through it from without; or it may have been burst accidentally, and in either of these cases there will be an appearance as if there had been in reality no sac. And more- over, the peritoneum immediately behind the navel is not connected to it by the same loose and distensible cellular tissue that unites it to other parts : it is here very closely joined, and consequently in small ruptures only occupying this spot there will be no appearance of a sepa- rate and distinct sac, although the peritoneal covering is really there notwithstanding. It must be borne in mind, however, that invest- ments of umbilical ruptures are always very thin, and a proportionate degree of caution is requisite in cutting through them during ope- ration. There are no distinct layers of fascia here as in other ruptures, no lamina; to sepa- rate one by one and one after another. In the congenital species the contents of the sac are merely covered by the peritoneum and the sheath of the cord. In the infantile, the coverings are the skin and cicatrix of the navel and the peritoneum ; and in the adventitious kind or ventro-umbilical we meet the skin, then the superficial fascia, which is very thin and weak on this part of the abdomen; next the cellular tissue that had united the peritoneum to the adjacent structures, and which may have become condensed so as to form a kind of fascia propria; and lastly, the peritoneum or hernial sac itself. In almost every case of umbilical hernia occurring in the adult, omentum has formed part of the contents of the sac, at least the ob- servation has been so universally made that the rule may be considered as established. In general it lies before the intestine in such a po- sition as to conceal it altogether and make it appear as if no other viscus was engaged ; but sometimes the intestine makes a passage through it and presents first when the sac is opened; or both these structures may be coiled and twisted together in such wise as to render it difficult to unravel and separate them one from another, and highly perilous to return them in that con- dition into the cavity lest strangulation should take place within. From the circumstance also of containing omentum, umbilical ruptures frequently become irreducible, this structure, when protruded, becoming thickened and en- larged and occasionally loaded with fat, so as to preclude the possibility of its being again returned through the tendinous opening. Or adhesions may have formed between the omentum and the intestine, or between either or both of these and the sac : in short, the rupture may become irreducible from any of the causes already mentioned as capable of producing such a condition of parts, but the one first alluded to, namely, the thickening and alteration of the omentum, is the one most generally observed. This altered condition of the omentum has also a paramount influence on the case even at a more remote period. Let it be supposed that symptoms of strangulation have supervened, and an operation been deemed necessary to preserve existence, the presence of this mass will be likely to prove extremely troublesome. Every surgeon is conversant with the different opinions that have been entertained as to the manner in which irreducible omentum should be dealt with. Some* speak boldly enough of cutting it off and returning any part that might remain, or allowing it to slip back into the abdomen without feeling any apprehension from the possibility of haemorrhage. Some have tied a ligature around it to cause it to slough, and Mr. Heyf employed a ligature in another way and with a different view, namely, by applying it so tight as gradually to cut through the omentum by the process of ab- sorption, but without entirely destroying the circulation through the included part. Scarpa| left the omentum, merely covering it with the sides of the hernial sac and dressing it lightly until suppuration appeared, when, he said, the pedicle by which it hung might be safely tied and the mass cut away. I notice this diver- sity of opinion not for the purpose of incul- cating any one line of practice, but to shew that the omentum cannot be left there with safety. It is at all times and under every cir* cumstance not very highly organized or able to sustain disease; still less so is it when altered from its natural arrangement, converted into an unwieldy mass of fat, and exposed to the in- fluence of the atmosphere in an open wound. Sometimes it runs into tedious and unhealthy suppurations with profuse and wasting dis- charges ; more generally, if the patient is old and debilitated, into mortification, which may (if the subject lives sufficiently long) pass on to the unaltered omentum within the abdomen, nor cease until it has reached the stomach. * Pott, op. ciut. p. ! 6. Petit and Ponteau, Mem. de l'Acad. Royale de Chir. torn. vii. p. 338. Colles's Surgical Anatomy, p. 100. t In this he was anticipated by Morcau, M£m. de l'Acad. Roy. de Ohir. t. vii. p. 344. i Op. ckat. p. 420.