395 GASTEROPODA. Fig. 192. Structure of the tentacle! in the Garden-Snail ( Helix Pomatia). From the common retractor muscles of the foot four long muscular slips are detached, one for each horn ; these run in company with the nerve to each tentacle, passing within its tube when protruded, quite to the extremity (g). The contraction of this muscle dragging the apex of the organ inwards, as seen at c, of course causes its complete inversion, whilst its protrusion is effected by the alternate contrac- tions of the circular bands of muscle of which the walls of each tentacle are composed. There is, however, another peculiarity rendered neces- sary by this singular mechanism, by which the nerves supplying the sense of touch may be enabled to accommodate themselves to such sudden and extensive changes of position ; for this purpose the nerves supplying these organs are of great length, reaching with facility to the end of the tubes when protruded, and in their retracted state the nerves are seen folded up within the body in large convolutions. In the figure, a a indicates the origins of the retractor muscles of the foot from the columella; b, the right superior tentacle fully protruded; c, the left superior tentacle partially retracted ; d, the left inferior tentacle extended, and e, the right inferior tentacle fully retracted and concealed within the body; f\ the nerve supplying the superior tentacle elongated by its extension ; g, the retractor muscle of the same tentacle arising from the common retractor muscle of the foot and inserted into the extremity of the tube ; /), the nerve of the opposite side thrown into folds ; i, the retractor muscle of the same tentacle contracted ; k, the aperture through which the nerve and retractor muscle enter the tentacle d ; I, the brain ; m, the subcesophageal ganglion ; n, the eye. Vision.—The eyes of Gasteropoda are ex- tremely small in comparison with the bulk of the animals, and seem more to represent the rudiments of an organ of sight than to be adapted to distinct vision. In many species indeed they appear to be absolutely wanting. When found, they resemble minute black points, by far too email to admit of any satisfactory examination of their internal structure; and even in the largest forms of the organ which are met with in the more bulky marine genera, it is with difficulty that their organisation can be explored. In Jig. 193 we have delineated the position and structure of the eye in a large Murex. Fig. 193. Tentacles and eye of Murex. The natural size of the organ is seen in the upper figure, in which on the right side the organ is represented untouched, while on the left a section has been made to exhibit its interior. This section when magnified, as in the lower figure, shews us that it consists of a spherical cavity lined posteriorly with a dark choroidal membrane,and containing a large spherical lens; the position and structure of the retina we have been unable satisfactorily to determine, although the visual nerve may be readily traced to the back of the choroid, where it seems to expand; but whether, as in the Cephalopods, its sentient portion is spread out behind the pigment which lines the eye-ball, or whether, as in the forms of the organ common to the vertebrate orders, the retina is placed anterior to the choroid, is a question which we are at present unable to solve. But however this may be, we see anteriorly a distinct pupil surrounded by a dark radiating zone, apparently an iris, to which it corresponds at least in position, although that it is really capable of contracting or en- larging the pupillary aperture is more than our observations warrant us in affirming. Finding, therefore, the eye of the Murex to offer a struc- ture which indubitably entitles it to be regarded as an organ of sight, we are justified in consi- dering the more minute specks of smaller Gas- teropoda as similarly formed and subservient to the same office. In the aquatic species the eyes are generally placed at the base of the su- perior or larger tentacles, although not unfre- quently they are supported upon short pedicles appropriated to them, as is the case in Haliotis and others. In Murex we have seen that the tentacles which support them are large and 2 d 2