ENTOZOA. 112 has arrived at maturity, and be diluted with a little pure tepid water and placed in the field of a microscope, a swarm of minute beings resembling tadpoles will be observed moving about with various degrees of velo- city, and in various directions, apparently by means of the inflexions of a filamentary caudal appendage. These are the seminal animalcules, Zoosperms, or Spermatozoa (Jig- 51): and, as it is still undetermined whether they are to be regarded as analogous to the moving filaments of the pollen of plants, or as independent or- ganisms, it has been deemed more convenient to consider them zoographically in the present article as members of the class Entozoa. The body to which the tail is attached is of an oval and flattened or compressed form, so that, when viewed sideways, the Zoosperm appears to be a moving filament like a minute Vibrio. It is this compressed form of the body which principally distinguishes the Sper- matozoa or seminal Cercaria, from the true Cercaria of vegetable infusions, in which the body is ovoid or cylindrical; the caudal ap- pendage of the Spermatozoa is also propor- tionally longer than in the Cercaria. In some species of the latter genus an oral aperture and ocelliform specks of an opake red colour have been obsprved on the anterior part of the body, and they manifest their sen- sibility to light by collecting towards the side of the vessel exposed to that influence. In the Zoosperms, which are developed exclu- sively in the dark recesses of animal bodies, the simplest rudiments of a visual organ would be superfluous; they are, in fact, devoid of ocelli, and even an oral aperture has not yet been detected in these simplest and most mi- nute of Entozoa. In neither the Zoosperms nor the Cercaria has the polygastric struc- ture been determined. On the contrary, some of the non-parasitic species, as the Cercaria Lemna, are stated to have ' a true alimen- tary canal, not polygastric' * The Spermatozoa are not, however, the only examples of the present order of Protelmintha which have' their habitat in the interior of living animals; many of the Entozoa themselves have been observed to be infested by internal para- sites, which are referrible by their external form to the Cercariada. Although no distinct organs of generation have been detected, there is reason to suspect that the Spermatozoa are oviparous: they are also stated to propagate by spontaneous fission; the separation taking place between the disc of the body and the caudal appendage; each of which develope the part required to form a perfect whole. The Zoosperms of each genus of animals present differences of form or proportion, and frequently also differences of relative size as compared to the animal in which they are deve- loped ; thus, in the figures' subjoined, which are all magnified in the same degree, the Zoosperm from the Rabbit is nearly as large as that from the Bull, (fig. 51.) * Pi'itchard's Animalcules, p. 184. Bull. Rabbit. Sparrow. Silk-worm Moth. Fig. 52. 1 Development of Sper- matozoa, Hunting. They appear to be formed in the seminal secretion under similar laws to those which pre- side over the develop- ment of other Entozoa in the mucous secretion of the Intestines, &c.,but are more constant in their existence, and must there- fore be regarded as fulfil- ling some more important office in the economy of the animal in which they exist. They are not found in the seminal passages or glands until the full pe- riod of puberty; and in some cases would seem to be periodically deve- loped. In the Hedgehog and Mole, which exhibit a periodical variation in the size of the testes in a well-marked degree, the Spermatozoa are not ob- servable in those glands during their state of quiescence and partial atrophy. Professor Wag- ner* examined the testes of different Passerine Birds in the winter sea- son, when those bodies are much diminished in size. (See vol.i. p. 354, fig. 183.) They then con- tained only granular sub- stances, without a trace of the Spermatozoa. When the same bodies were ex- amined in spring, they were found to contain spherical granules of dif- ferent sizes and appear- ances, (A, B, fig. 52,) which led to the suppo- sition that they were the ova of the Spermatozoa in different stages of deve- lopment, and capsules containing each a nume- rous group of Sperma- tozoa (C) were also pre- sent ; whence it would appear that many of these animalcules were deve- loped from a single ovum. In the semen contained in the vasa deferentia the Spermatozoa (D) were in great numbers, having escaped from their cap- sules ; they exhibit a re- markable rotation on their * Mailer's Archiv. 1836, p. 225.