EDENTATA. 54 Fig. 39. Stomach of the Sloth. of the stomach by a semilunar fold. The cardia opens very far towards the right side, leaving a very large pouch, and enters a canal which proceeds along the right side of the first stomach, giving off from its right margin a broad process, which separates the pouch of the stomach from the other cavity, which lies between the pouch and the appendix before mentioned. Thus the first stomach is divided into three cavities. The canal already described turns from the left towards the right, and enters the second stomach by a narrow opening. The second stomach is of a slender form, much smaller than the former; its parietes are very thin for the first half of its length, but much thickened towards the pylorus; and the two portions are sepa- rated by a semilunar fold. Again, the first portion of this second stomach is itself partially divided by a beautifully indented fold, the dentated processes of which are directed towards the pylorus. There is also attached to the second stomach a small cul-de-sac, which lies between two similar ones connected with the first stomach, the internal surface of all of which appears to be glandular. In the AT the appendix to the second stomach is much longer, and divided into three chambers by two membranous partitions. The whole of this structure, and especially the canal which extends from the cardia to the second stomach, indicates a very remarkable relation to that of the ruminants, and is evidently intended for the digestion of vege- table substances only. In the Edetitata proper the stomach is, as may be expected, far more simple. In the Myrmecophaga didactyla it is of a globular form, and simple. In the Manis pentadaclyla or Pangolin, it is internally divided by a fold into two cavities, of which the left, analogous to the paunch, is thin, and the pyloric, or true digestive portion, much thicker. The intestinal canal does not present the same striking distinctions between the large and small intestines which are observed in most other mammifera. There are in the Ant-eaters two ccecal appendices, which may be considered as forming the boundary between the two portions, of which the posterior is very much shorter than the anterior. It is remarkable that the entrance to these' small cceca is so contracted as wholly to prevent the passage of any faeces into them. In the Munis longicauda there is not the vestige of a coecum. In the Orycteropus it is short and oval. In the Turdigrada, the Ai for example, the large intestine is at once distinguished from the small by its sudden enlargement, and at their junction is found a slight fold, which partially separates them. The liver offers but few peculiarities of consequence in a physiological point of view. In the Ant-eaters, the Armadillos, and the Orycterope, it consists of three lobes. In the former the hepatic duct joins the cystic at a considerable distance from the neck of the gall-bladder, and, as in the Armadillo, at a very acute angle. Organs of circulation.—In a paper in the Philosophical Transactions, Sir A. Carlisle described a very remarkable peculiarity of the arrangement of the arteries of the limbs in several slow-moving animals, of which number were the Bradypus tridactylus and Bradypus didactylus. It appears that the axillary and iliac arteries, on entering the upper and lower limbs, are suddenly divided into a number of cylinders of equal size, which occasionally anastomose with each other. They are ex- * clusively distributed in the muscles. Those of the other parts of the body, and even those of the limbs which supply the bones, &c. do not deviate from the usual mode of distribution. In the former species no less than forty-two of these cylinders were counted on the superficies of the brachial fasciculus, and there were probably not less than twenty concealed in the middle. In the second species they were less numerous, and deviated from the usual form. This difference in the two species is perfectly consistent with what is known of their habits ; for there can be no doubt that the peculiarity has reference to the slowness of motion of these animals, in which character the Ai far exceeds the Unau. " The effect of this peculiar disposition of the arteries, in the limbs of these slow-moving quadrupeds, will be that of retarding the velocity of the blood. It is well known, and has been explained by various writers, that the blood moves quicker in the arteries near the heart than in the remote branches; and also, that fluids move more rapidly through tubes which branch oft* suddenly from large trunks than if they had been propelled for a considerable distance through small-sized cylinders; be- sides the frequent communications in the cylinders of the Bradypus tridactylus must produce eddies which will retard the progress of the fluid. From these and a variety of other facts, it will appear that one effect on the animal economy, connected with this ar- rangement of vessels, must be that of di- minishing the velocity of blood passing into the muscles of the limbs. It may be difficult to determine whether the slow movement of the blood sent to these muscles be a subor- dinate convenience to other primary causes of their slow contraction, or whether it be of itself the immediate and principal cause." The integument in the Manis as well as in