451 GENERATION. followed simple excitement of the sexual organs, and might therefore take place either with or without the male ; and in the second place, the occurrence of cavities and vesicular membranes within the corpora lutea is by no means a proof that these cavities are new or forming ovarian vesicles; on the contrary, there is every reason to regard them as unnatural or the product of disease. But though lately revived upon the above-mentioned grounds, it is long since this hypothesis received the most satisfactory refutation, both from the observa- tions of De Graaf and of Haller. Haller in particular traced in the most accurate manner all the steps of the development of the corpus luteum, from the first rupture of the vesicle till its completion: he employed the animals least liable to lead to fallacy in such observa- tions; those, viz. in which rupture of the vesicles and formation of corpora lutea is usually produced only by sexual union ; and he always remarked in them an exact corres- pondence in the number of fcetuses in the gravid uterus with the number of corpora lutea in the ovaries, while at the same time he found the first appearance of these bodies to take place at a fixed period after sexual union, and their size and structure always to bear an exact relation to the period of utero-gestation at which they were observed.* The uses of the corpora lutea are entirely unknown. The fact that these bodies become larger and remain proportionately of a larger size during pregnancy than when produced in other circumstances (as without sexual union, or after unproductive copulation, or when the product is blighted at an early period of utero- gestation,) would seem to indicate some con- nexion between the corpora lutea and the development of the foetus in utero. By those who have regarded the corpora lutea as of a glandular nature, they have been supposed to secrete fluids which assist in the nourishment of the foetus. We have already stated the reasons for considering such hypotheses as groundless. (See Ovary.) Descent of the ovum. Its structure and changes during its passage.—The attention of accoucheurs in all ages and countries has naturally been directed to the study of the structure of the human ovum and foetus in the more advanced stages of utero-gestation, and a great body of facts has been collected from the examination of aborted products or the gravid uterus of women dying during preg- nancy, from which scientific men have acquired an accurate knowledge of the structure of the human foetus and its covering in the ovum during the greater part, and especially in the more advanced period of utero-gestation ; but very little is known of the nature of the egg in the first stages or immediately after concep- * The corpus luteum is developed then and be- comes perceptible after tbe bursting of one of the vesicles ; but let us not here lose sight of the fact before announced that the first commencement of its formation dates from a short while before the rupture, as indicated by a thickening of the inner membrane of the vesicle. tion has occurred. We have, in^fact, no direct observations which inform us of what happens to the human ovum immediately after its escape from the ovary, and, indeed, for some little time after its arrival in the uterus, when the parts of the foetus have already begun to be formed in it. This subject has, however, been investigated with considerable success in several mammiferous animals; and although there remain several points which still require eluci- dation, yet, from the analogy whicli is known to exist in the structure of the ovum and foetus of the human species and those of quadrupeds and birds, we are enabled to bring together the detached observations which chance has thrown in our way, and thus to give a connected account of the generative process in man, im- perfectly as that process has as yet been observed. Our design at present is to follow the ovum only as far as into the uterus, or until the com- mencement of the formation of the foetus in it. We believe we shall place this part of our sub- ject in the clearest point of view, by prefixing to our remarks regarding the ovum of man and quadrupeds a short sketch of what happens to the egg of the common fowl after its dis- charge from the ovary. The substance of the yolk enclosed in its membrane, together with the germinal portion in which after incubation the rudiments of the new animal begin to be formed, constitutes the essential parts of the bird's egg as it exists in the ovary. The ovarian egg, when it has left the place of its formation and passed into the oviduct, receives the addition of various other parts, viz. the albumen, chalazae, shell and its lining membrane, as it gradually descends through different portions of the oviduct, each of which is destined to secrete one of these newly added parts. These parts may, however, be considered as accessory to the more essential constituents of the egg, which we are inclined to regard as the germinal spot or cicatricula, the granular and oleaginous fluid of the yolk, and the dense transparent membrane with which they are enveloped. To the unim- pregnated egg of the ovary we shall give the name of ovulum, and henceforward in this paper apply the name of ovum to the perfected egg, that is, the ovulum to which the acces- sory coverings have been added, and which has received the influence of the male. The ovarium of the common fowl in the breeding season, or when it is laying eggs, has the form of a bunch of clustering ovula, which are contained in capsules, the more advanced of which hang down from the rest of the ovary by the elongated pedicles of the containing capsules; while the smaller ovula of various sizes, composing the body of the ovary, cluster more closely together. The fully developed ovula only have the deep yellow colour pecu- liar to the yolk; as the smaller ones are less advanced their colour is paler, and the smallest are nearly colourless and transparent from the absence in them of the oleaginous and granular matter peculiar to the riper yolks. The little white spot or granular layer whicli