HEART. 603 paticae.* Judging from the number of mus- cular fibres which surround the termination of the pulmonary veins in the human species, we would expect these contractions to occur to a greater extent in these veins than in the cava?. These contractions in the veins must assist the vis a tergo, or the force with which the column of blood flows along the veins towards the heart, in limiting the regurgitation along these during the contraction of the auricles. This regurgitation along the veins appears to be to a small extent only when the circulation is pro- ceeding in a natural manner, but becomes con- siderable where there is any impediment to the free passage of the blood into the ventricles, and when the blood becomes stagnated in the veins. When the actions of the heart are en- feebled, the contractions of the auricles are slower, and may become more or less vermi- cular, as I have myself occasionally observed. Two or more contractions of the auricle may also now be necessary before the languid ven- tricle can be excited to contraction. When the action of the heart is still more enfeebled, particular portions only of the auricles con- tinue to contract. According to the obser- vations of Harvey, Lower, Senac, Ilaller, and others, the contractions of the auricles are per- formed with considerable force. Harvey states that he has observed that if the finger is applied to the ventricles in those cases where the action of the auricles continues after the contractions of the ventricles have ceased, a distinct beat is felt in the ventricle at each stroke of the auricle; and Senac, in quoting this, adds (evidently from his own observation) that it is similar to the pulse in the arteries. Senac also states that if an opening be made into the apex of the heart under those circum- stances, a jet of blood rushes through it at each stroke of the auricle. He, however, admits that the contraction of the auricles in these cases is not sufficient to dilate sensibly the walls of the ventricles, but, of course, very considerable allowance ought to be made for the enfeebled state of the auricles at this stage of the experiment.-)- In the experiments of Dr. Hope, Mr. Carlisle, M. Bouillaud, and the Dublin Committee for investigating the cause of the sounds of the heart, the contrac- tion of the auricles appeared to be compara- tively trifling, and was most apparent in the appendices. From my own observations upon rabbits and dogs I am convinced that the au- ricles contract considerably more when the movements of the heart are proceeding in a natural manner, than some of these last expe- riments would lead us to believe, and that this contraction is not confined to the appendix, * The contractions of the different parts of the heart in cold-blooded animals have been observed to occur in the following order : first, the termin- ation of the large veins, then the auricles, then the ventricles, and, lastly, the bulb of the aorta. f I have convinced myself of the accuracy of these statements of Harvey and Senac in expe- riments upon dogs opened soon after they had been deprived of sensation. but extends over the whole auricle. When the circulation through the lungs becomes im- peded, the right ventricle is then unable to empty itself, and the auricle of the same side (and this is the one that is most generally ob- served in such experiments) is consequently impeded in its movements. The auricles do not certainly exert the force or contract to the extent which some have stated, do not ex- pel the whole of their contents, and their diastole is comparatively feeble; but that none of the muscular fibres of the auricles are pas- sive, but exert a force proportionate to their strength, we have evidence both from expe- riment and the effects of disease. In some of those cases where an impediment to the passage of the blood from the auricle to the ventricle exists, all the muscular fibres of the auricles become much increased in thickness and in strength. As the left auricle has natu- rally greater difficulties to overcome in pro- pelling its blood than the right, so we find that the left auricle is considerably more muscular than the right.* The appendix from its being loose, and supplied by a band of longitudinal fibres drawing it backwards, must enjoy a freer motion than the other parts of the auricle. Systole and diastole of the ventricles.— When the heart is acting vigorously, the con- traction of the ventricles succeeds immediately upon that of the auricles, so that they some- times appear continuous; or, in other words, the sudden distention of the ventricles by the blood propelled into them during the systole of the auricles is rapidly followed by the con- traction of the ventricles. The systole of the ventricles must occur during the diastole of the auricles. As we are only sensible of the sys- tole of the ventricles from external examination during life, the expression systole of the heart is always employed as synonymous with the systole of the ventricles. When the action of the heart is a little less active, an apparent in- terval is observable between the completion of the contraction of the auricles and the com- mencement of the contraction of the ventricles, —the irritability of the ventricles being at this time somewhat impaired, their contraction does not so quickly follow their sudden distention. The ventricles during their systole are dimi- nished in all their dimensions; the apex is drawn upwards to the base and tilted forwards so as to strike the parietes of the thorax be- tween the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs.f " In the case mentioned by Allan Burns, where an ossific deposit covered the whole surface of the ventricles, so as to entirely, or nearly entirely, pre- vent their action, the auricles must have per- formed part of their functions for some time before death. In one of the experiments of Dr. Wil- liams, of London, upon asses, he observed the circulation along the arteries continue although the ventricles were quiescent, and the auricles alone contracted. t " Dr. C. J. 13. Williams has, in a lecture lately published in the Medical Gazette (July 28, 1838, p. 692,) pointed out that, during a deep inspira- tion, the ribs are elevated without raising the heart in the same degree, and the impulse may be felt