ENTOZOA. 138 slightly wavy line to near the middle of the posterior margin of the segment, where it ter- minates in a small oval vesicle. This, as seen by transmitted light, is sub-transparent in the centre and opaque at the circumference, indi- cating its hollow or vesicular structure. The duct, or vas deferens, contains a grumous se- cretion ; it is slightly dilated just before its termination. In this species therefore, as also in Amphis- toma conicum, the ova are impregnated in their passage outward. But in several species of Distomata, as D. clavigerum, ovatum, cirrige- rum, and in the Distuma hepaticum, the ova escape by an aperture situated near the base of the penis, and reciprocal fecundation exists. The concourse of two individuals must also take place in those species of the genus Monos- tomum, which, like the Monostomum mutabile, are viviparous, and in which the orifices of the male and female parts are distinct. All the Sterelmintha of the Trematode order are androgynous; but the generative apparatus, instead of being divided and multiplied as in the Taniaz, is individualized, and its several parts receive a higher degree of development. We have selected the figure which Nordmann has given of the Distoma per latum, on account Fig. 91. €f s Generative organs, Distoma perlatum, magnified. of the clearness with which the several parts are delineated, but it must be observed that it deviates in some remarkable peculiarities from what may be regarded as the Trematode type of the reproductive organs. The specimen is seen from the under side, part of the parietes of the body having been removed ; a is the oral aperture, b the oesophagus seen through fhe transparent integument, c d the windings of the beginning of the simple digestive cavity, e e the two intestinal prolon- gations, f f the dilated claviform coecal ter- minations of the intestines, g the two internal, and h the two external trunks of the vascular system proceeding to the anterior part of the body; i is the great sacciform uterus, k ap- parently glandular bodies contained therein, I m the two testes, which are beset internally with small spines or cilia; n the projecting cirrus from which the ova are expelled, o the terminal dilatation of the oviduct which com- municates with the testes, p p p p convo- lutions of the oviduct which are filled with ova, q q the mass of ova which lies above the ovi- duct, and occupies almost the whole cavity of the body, r r the passages by which the ovaries communicate with the uterus or dilated commencement of the oviduct. The generative organs present some varieties in the Planaria, but are essentially the same as in the Distomata. In the Planaria lactea the penis and oviduct are situated below, and the two vesicular and secerning parts of the apparatus towards the upper part of the body. The male organ (a, Jig. 92) consists, according Fig. 92. to the researches of Professor Duges, of two parts, one of which is free, smooth, semi- transparent, contractile, and always divided into two portions by a circular constriction ; it is traversed by a central canal, susceptible of being dilated into a vesicle, and is open at its free extremity, which is turned backwards ; the second division is thicker, more opaque, vesicular, adherent to the contiguous paren- chyma, and receives two flexuous spermatic canals (6, b). The free portion of the penis is con- tained within a cylindrical muscular sheath (c), which is adherent to the circumference of the base of the intromittent organ, and serves to protrude it externally. This sheath commu- nicates with the terminal sac of the female apparatus near its outlet by a projecting orifice (d). The oviduct (e) opens into the posterior part of the terminal sac: it is a narrow tube which passes directly backwards, and dividing into two equal branches, again subdivides and ramifies amongst the branches of the dendritic digestive organ. Besides the ovary there are two accessory vesicles (gand/i), communicating together by a narrow duct (f ), and opening into the terminal generative sac. M. Baar twice witnessed the copulation of