EYE. 196 presents greater curvatures does not require concave glasses, as the old person requires con- vex ones. The state of the eye, after the re- moval of the lens by operation for cataract, proves that it is a part of the organ essentially necessary for correct vision. When the eye is in other respects perfect, without any shred of opaque capsule,any irregularity or adhesion of the pupil, or any alteration in the curvature of the cornea, as in young persons who have had the lens properly broken up with a fine needle through the cornea, vision is so good for distant objects, that such persons are able to pursue their common occupations, and walk with safety through crowded streets, but they require the use of a convex lens, of from three and a half to five inches focus, for reading or vision of near; old persons, however, generally require convex glasses on all occasions after the removal of the lens. That the curvatures of the lens are fre- quently different in different individuals may be inferred from the frequency of short sight, or defective power of adaptation, not attributa- ble to any peculiarity of the cornea. Petit states that he found lenses of which the two convexities were equal, and others of which the anterior was greater than the posterior, and more than once, one more convex on its ante- rior surface in one eye, while that in the other eye was in a natural state. He also occasion- ally found the lens as convex in the advanced period of life as in youth. I have repeatedly observed the perfection of vision and power of adaptation much greater in one eye than the other in the same individual, without any defect of the cornea, pupil, or retina; and occasionally have found young persons requiring the com- mon convex glasses used by persons advanced in life, and old persons becoming near-sighted, and requiring concaves. The annexed letters shew the difference of curvature at the different periods of life, as represented by Sbmmerring. A is the lens of the foetus; B, that of a child of six years of age; and C, that of an adult. Fig. 117. ABC The colour of the lens is also different at different periods of life. In the foetus it is often of a reddish colour; at birth and in in- fancy it appears slightly opaque or opaline ; in youth it is perfectly transparent; and in the more advanced periods of life acquires a yel- lowish or amber tint. These varieties in colour are not visible, unless the lens be removed from the eye, until the colour becomes so deep in old age as to diminish the transparency, when it appears opaque or milky, or resembling the semitransparent horn used for lanterns. The hard lenticular cataract of advanced life appears to be nothing more than the extreme of this change of colour, at least when extracted and placed on white paper it presents no other disorganization; but the lens of old persons, when seen in a good light and with a dilated pupil, always appears more or less opaque, al- though vision remains perfect. The depth of colour is sometimes so great, without any milkiness or opacity, that the pupil appears quite transparent although vision is lost. This is perhaps the state of lens vaguely alluded to by authors under the name of black cataract. The consistence of the lens varies as much as its colour. In infancy it is soft and pulpy, in youth firmer, but still so soft that it may be crushed between the finger and thumb, and in old age becomes tough and firm. Hence it is that in the earlier periods of life cataracts may be broken up completely into a pulp, and absorbed with certainty, while in old persons they adhere to the needle, unless very deli- cately touched, and are very liable to be de- tached from the capsule and thrown upon the iris, causing the destruction of the organ. On this account, therefore, the operation of extrac- tion must generally be resorted to in old per- sons labouring under this form of cataract, while the complete division of it with the needle and exposure of the fragments to the contact of the aqueous humour secures its removal by absorption in young persons. It must not, however, be forgotten that the softer lenticular cataract occasionally occurs in ad- vanced life. The crystalline lens is a little heavier than water. Porterfield, from the experiments of Bryan Robinson, infers that the specific gra- vity of the human lens is to that of the other humours as eleven to ten, the latter being nearly the same as water; 'and W.intringham, from his experiments, concludes that the den- sity of the crystalline is to that of the vitreous humour in the ratio of nine to ten; the spe- cific gravity of the latter being ;to water as 10024 to 10000. The density of the lens is not the same throughout, the surface being nearly fluid, while the centre scarcely yields to the pressure of the finger and thumb, especially in advanced life. Wintringham found the spe- cific gravity of the centre of the lens of the ox to exceed that of the entire lens in the propor- tion of twenty-seven to twenty-six. The re- fractive power is consequently greater than that of the other humours. On this head Mr. Lloyd, in his Optics, says, " In their refrac- tive power, the aqueous and vitreous humours differ very little from that of water. The re- fractive index of the aqueous humour is 1.337,. and that of the vitreous humour 1.339; that of water being 1.336. The refractive power of the crystalline is greater, its mean refracting index being 1.384. The density of the crystal- line, however, is not uniform, but increases gradually from the outside to the centre. This increase of density serves to correct the aber- ration by increasing the convergence of the central rays more than that of the extreme parts of the pencil." Dr. Brewster, in his Treatise on Optics, says, " I have found the following to be the refractive powers of the different humours of the eye, the ray of light being incident upon them from the eye: aqueous humour 1.336; crystalline, surface 1.3767, centre 1.3990, mean 1.3839; vitreous humour 1.3394. But as the rays refracted by the aqueous humour pass into the crystalline, and