530 ORGAN OF HEARING. of vestibule, semicircular canals, and cochlea. The semicircular canals and cochlea do not com- municate immediately with each other, but only mediutely through the vestibule. The latter may be considered the principal compartment. The osseous labyrinth is imbedded in the substance of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, from the compact texture of which it is, in the adult, scarcely to be distinguished. In the early periods of life, however, its walls con- sist of a hard but brittle osseous substance, around which is the then less compact tissue of the petrous bone. Hence it is in a young bone only, and that by means of some little prepara- tion, that the external form of the osseous laby- rinth can be well demonstrated. Of the compartments of the osseous laby- rinth, the vestibule lies in the middle, the semi- circular canals behind it, and the cochlea in front. Fig. 232. The exterior of the osseous labyrinth of the left side. Natural size. a. Oval or vestibular fenestra ; b. round or cochlear fenestra ; c. external or horizontal semi- circular canal; d. superior or anterior verlical se- micircular canal; e. posterior or inferior vertical semicircular canal; f. the turns of the cochlea. The vestibule, (vestibulum ; Fr. le vestibule ; Germ, der Vorhqf.)—The vestibule is an irre- gularly shaped cavity, the diameter of which from above downwards, as also from behind forwards, may be stated to be about one-fifth of an inch. The distance between its inner and outer wall is somewhat more than one- tenth of an inch. In an anatomical sense we can distinguish in it three horns, one of which is towards the anterior and lower part, another towards the posterior and lower part, whilst the third composes the upper part of the vesti- bular cavity. The anterior and lower horn leads by an oval opening directed forwards and downwards into the vestibular scala of the cochlea. This opening is called the vestibular orifice of the cochlea, osteum s. apertura scala vestibuli cochlea. The posterior and lower horn of the vestibule corresponds to three of the orifices of the semicircular canals; the upper horn to the other two orifices. At the under part of the inner wall of the vestibule, within the limits of its anterior horn and to the inside of the vestibular orifice of the cochlea, is a hemispherical depression, fovea hemispherica s. sub-rotunda. Its bottom, which corresponds to the posterior part of the lower depression at the bottom of the internal audi- tory meatus, presents a sieve-like spot, macula cribrosa, that is, it is perforated by minute apertures for the passage of filaments of the auditory nerve. On the upper wall of the ves- tibule, bordering the upper margin of the hemi- spherical fossa and within the limits of the upper horn, is another depression, of an oval shape, which is known by the name of fovea hemi-elliptica. The hemispherical and hemi-el- liptical depressions are separated by a ridge or pyramidal eminence, eminentia pi/ramidalis, pervaded by small canals for the passage also of nervous filaments. On the inner wall of the vestibule, a little in front of the orifice common to the two vertical semicircular canals and within the limits of the posterior horn, there is, bordering on the hemi-elliptical and hemisphe- rical depressions, below the former and behind the latter, another very small depression or sulcus, fossa s. cavitas sulciformis, which leads upwards and backwards to a small oblique orifice, that of the aqueduct of the vestibule, osteum internum aqueductus vestibuli. At the middle of the inner wall of the vestibule, where the boundary lines of these three depressions meet, there is a slight eminence. The inner wall of the vestibule corresponds to the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, and is pervaded by small canals, some of which have been already mentioned, for the passage of fibrils of the auditory nerve and of blood- vessels. In the outer wall of the vestibule there is an oval, or rather a kidney or bean-shaped hole, called foramen ovule, s. fenestra ovalis, s. fenes- tra vestibuli. The long diameter of this aper- ture, which is about one-tenth of an inch or perhaps a little more, is directed from behind forwards. Its vertical diameter is about half that of its long diameter. The upper part of the circumference of the hole is arched up- wards, the lower part is slightly inclined in the same direction. The margin of the vestibular fenestra is turned in towards the vestibule. Viewed from the tympanum, into which it opens in the macerated bone, the vestibular fenestra appears situated at the bottom of a fossa, which was called by Cotugno pelvis ovalis. In the recent state the vestibular fene- stra is closed in by the base of the stapes. The semicircular canals, (canales semicircu- lares; Fr. les canaux semicirculaires; Germ, die Bogengdnge oder halbcirkelformigen Candle.) These are three canals, which, describing more than the half of an irregular circle, open at each of their extremities into the vestibule; hence, if it was not for the circumstance that two unite by one of their extremities to form a common short canal, there would be in the vestibule six orifices of semicircular canals, in- stead of the five only which exist. The calibre of these canals is about one-twentieth of an inch in the direction from the concavity to the con- vexity of their curve; in the opposite direction they are somewhat compressed, so that a trans- verse section, instead of presenting a round orifice, presents an elliptical one. The semicir- cular canals are wider where they open into the vestibule, but especially so at one of their ex- tremities, which presents a dilatation in the form of a bulb, called ampulla or ampullary sinus, sinus ampullaceus. Two of the semicircular canals occupy a vertical position and one of them a horizontal.