748 HERNIA. of an artificial anus being formed, the patient and the hernia must be placed under circum- stances so very peculiar that it will be easily perceived how unlikely it is that they should be united and combined in one individual. 1. Although the protruded viscus has become sphacelated, the inflammation within the ab- domen must not have reached such a height as to preclude the possibility of recovery. 2. Adhesions must be established between the bowel and the peritoneum either at or im- mediately above the neck of the sac, so that when the stricture is free and the enormous alvine accumulation allowed to escape, it will be impossible for the gut to withdraw itself within the cavity or be removed from the external aperture. And in order that the annoyance of the arti- ficial anus should be subsequently removed, it is necessary that the intestine and the perito- neum to which it is adherent should retire into the abdomen, and that the angle between the two intestinal tubes should be diminished or removed. 1. If the first of these conditions is indispen- sable, it follows that the chance of recovery with artificial anus is inversely as the acuteness of the symptoms and the rapidity of their pro- gress. As it is the inflammation of the intes- tines that destroys the patient, it is pretty evi- dent that after it has reached a given point, no operation performed on the hernia and no evacuation of the contents of the bowels can arrest its progress, or cause the absorption of the lymph, or of the sero-purulent fluid that has been effused into the peritoneal cavity. In operating on the living subject within twenty- three hours after the first appearance of the hernia, I have found the intestine sphacelated : in this case, when the stricture was divided, the discharge from the intestines within the ab- domen was trifling in quantity, and in order to relieve the patient, I was obliged to introduce a gum-elastic tube for a considerable way into the superior fragment of the bowel. He died on the subsequent day, and on examining the body the front of the intestines seemed to be one mass of plastic lymph, which obliterated every appearance of convolution, and must have glued together the bowels in such a manner as to prevent the possibility of a peristaltic motion. In a case so aggravated no hope could be enter- tained from the establishment of an artificial outlet. It can now be easily imagined how persons of a very advanced age,* and in whom the symptoms of strangulation are mild and chronic, recover with artificial anus, in short that such a consummation is most to be ex- pected in the cases to which the name " incar- cerated" has been applied, whereas in most instances of " strangulated" hernia its occurrence is unlikely, and in many altogether impossible. 2. The second great requisite for the esta- blishment of an artificial anus is, that adhesion shall take place between the bowel and the peritoneum, either at or immediately above the * See Louis' Memoir on hernia followed by gan- grene. Mem. de l'Acad. Uoy. v. 8. neck of the sac, so that when the stricture is free and the alvine discharges allowed to escape, it will be impossible for the gut to withdraw itself within the cavity, or be removed from the external aperture. This adhesion has, I think, been generally supposed to occur "during the inflammation which precedes the gangrene,"* but is nevertheless probably always not only subsequent to it, but to the separation of the unsound and sphacelated parts; and the at- tachment is, not between the contiguous and opposing smooth surfaces of the serous mem- brane, but between the divided edges of the sound portions of the tube remaining after the slough has been thrown off, and the part of the neck of the sac adjacent to them. I have ope- rated on a great number of gangrened herniae, and never found such an adhesion to have pre- viously existed, neither have I ever met with it on dissection, and I cannot conceive the possi- bility of a spontaneous return after sphacelus (an event that but too frequently occurs) if the parts were thus attached together. Assuredly if such adhesions were formed at so early a period, they ought to be much more frequently found, and they would be amongst the most calamitous complications that could attend a hernia ; for they would offer an almost invinci- ble obstacle to its reduction, or supposing the bowel to have been pushed up by force, such a sharp angular fold would be formed as must prevent the passage of its contents and create an internal strangulation. Nor is the consider- ation of this fact practically unimportant, if it leads us to adopt every possible precaution that may conduce to the undisturbed progress of this adhesive process, and at the same time warns us not to be too sanguine in our expecta- tions. I have (as I have said) operated on a vast number of cases of gangrened hernia, not one of which recovered with artificial anus: some, the great majority, perished, as has been remarked, in consequence of the inflammation within the abdomen having reached an incurable height; some others sank exhausted and died, the system being apparently worn out and incapable of a recuperative effort: others still, from a retraction of the divided end of the bowel and the escape of its contents into the cavity; and one, from a cause which, as it has not been mentioned by any pathological writer, may be noticed here. On the spontaneous separation of the sphacelated bowel, a frightful and incon- trollable hemorrhage took place, some of which flowed into the peritoneal cavity, and was found after death diffused through the convolutions of the intestines. When a case has been so fortunate as to permit of the formation of an artificial anus, after the mortified parts and putrid sloughs have been removed a cavity is seen, generally irregular and puckered at its edge, leading down to and communicating with the injured * Scarpa on hernia, p. 323. See also Travers on wounded intestines. " Dans les hernies, ces adhe- rences precedent la destruction des parties, et elles previennent le plus souvent 1'epanchernent des matieres dans le ventre."—Dupuytren, Lecons Oralcs, torn. ii. p. 197.