803 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. fracture of the femur, which had occurred some years previously- Besides this severe injury of the hip, it was also manifest, from some dyspnoea, cough, and bloody expectoration, that his chest was also injured, but venesection and other suitable treatment having been resorted to, the affection of the chest seemed to subside. His cough and dyspnoea for a time had disap- peared, and his pulse fell to 80. On the twenty- third day from the accident, he said he felt that he had caught a most severeand violent cold, from a window having been kept open over his head. On this (23rd) morning, I found him suffering from great difficulty of breathing and violent fits of coughing, accompanied by scanty frothy expectoration. His pulse was 110, and hard, his tongue was brown and dry, his skin was hot, and I learned that these symptoms had suc- ceeded to a rigor. They were attributed by me to pneumonia with acute pleuritis and consi- derable effusion, of which there were found, on examination of the chest by auscultation and percussion, very evident signs. These were actively combated by the ordinary treatment, but without success. His pulse was generally 120. He had cough, with muco-purulent ex- pectoration, and dyspnoea. He slill obstinately refused to permit any accurate examination of the limb to be made. He said his right thigh was now as powerless as at first, but the injury did not prevent him sitting up in bed, when, from the urgency of the dyspnoea, he felt the desire for this position; on one occasion he had himself taken up, and placed for a time sitting up in a chair. On the thirty-third day after his admission, I found that his right leg and thigh had swollen, that he had raved much during the night; and that he had alternate flushings and paleness of countenance, which betrayed much distress. He now complained of pain in the right shoulder. His pulse was 130, small and compressible. He had reten- tion of urine. His temper was irritable; his tongue was red, and morbidly clean and dry. He had much thirst. His lips were pale and bloodless. He died on the 12th January, the fortieth day from the accident. Post-mortem examination.—There was effu- sion of pus into the cavity of the right pleura, and the usual results of acute pleuritis ; pus also in the cavity of the pericardium, and a thin reticulated layer of lymph on the surface of the heart. An incision made through the soft parts to expose the bones of the hip-joint gave exit to a large quantity of dark brown serum, mixed with pus. This collection of matter extended from the superior part of the thigh, under the peritoneum up to the kidney. The soft parts having been removed, and the bones exposed, it was found that the shaft, head, and neck of the femur were uninjured, but the head of the bone was driven through the fundus of the acetabulum, which was fractured in a stellated manner, having been divided into three por- tions. The spiculated edges of the cavity pro- truded into the pelvis to the extent of one inch. They were sharp and hard. Nature had not made the slightest attempt at reparation. The finger could be passed along the neck of the thigh-bone into the cavity of the pelvis, through the perforation in the bottom of the acetabulum. The pelvis had been broken in several places. There was a comminuted fracture of the horizontal ramus of the pubis near its crest. There was another fracture of this ramus at its junction with the ilium, and a fracture through the body of the os innpmi- natum extended from the anterior inferior spi- nous process to the great sciatic notch. B. Fracture of the brim of the acetabulum. ■—-The superior and back part of the cotyloid cavity, which overhangs the head of the femur, which is called by Soemmering the supercilium, is sometimes broken off, and it follows almost as a necessary consequence, that a dislocation upwards and backwards of the head of the femur shall occur. It is an accident most liable to be mistaken, and most difficult to manage. We believe, indeed, in all the cases which have occurred, that permanent lameness has been the result. In such cases, the luxation of the hip is reduced without much difficulty, but dis- placement again shortly recurs. In symptoms and effects the case has a strong resemblance to the congenital luxation of the femur. I was once invited by my friend, Mr. Hilles, (now of London,) to see a case of supposed dislocation upwards and backwards on the dorsum of the ilium. I met the late Dr. M'Dowel in con- sultation on the case. It was as follows :— Thomas Venables, set. 25, on the 4th of Oc- tober, 1834, received a severe injury of the right hip-joint in leaping across a ditch, having alighted with force upon the right leg. He fell immediately, and was unable to rise from the ground, or to walk or stand when raised. When the patient was supported in the erect posture, he had the ordinary symptoms of dis- location of the thigh-bone upwards and back- wards on the dorsum of the ilium. No cre- pitus was discovered. On the following morning an extending force having been ap- plied by the pulleys, the head of the bone resumed its natural situation, and the deformity of the limb disappeared. When the patient was visited on the following morning, (the 6th,) it was found that during the night the head of the bone had started from the acetabulum, and that all the former signs of the injury had re- appeared. On the 7th, the displacement was again reduced. While the bone was yielding to the force of the pulleys, the writer had the palm of his hand pressing on the great tro- chanter, as this last advanced slowly towards the acetabulum. He was sensible of a rough grating sensation, which was communicated to his hand, and gave him the idea as if the head of the bone were dragged along a scabrous rough surface. The case proceeded favourably until the night of the 10th, when, owing to the dis- turbance occasioned by the action of a purga- tive medicine, the dislocation recurred a third time. It was observed that, although when the patient was supported out of bed the foot was inverted, still the toes could be somewhat everted. An accurate examination being now instituted to ascertain whether a fracture ex- isted, a distinct crepitus was discovered at the 3 c 2