INSECTIVORA. 997 Fig. 444. Fig. 443. Fig. 442 abnormal deviation from the usual construc- tion. It is extremely short and broad, forming in fact nearly a square ; about the middle of its anterior margin a strong process rises, which gives origin to the subclavian muscle, which in this animal is greatly developed. It is articu- lated, as usual, with the sternum by its interior extremity, which may here be more properly called its interior margin; but by its external margin it is connected moveably with the head of the humerus, which connection is rendered more solid towards the anterior part by a strong ligament. Its connexion with the acromion of the scapula is by a ligament merely, which extends from the acromion to the posterior and outer angle of the clavicles. In Condytura and even in Scalops the construction of this bone is on a similar type; but in Clirysochloris it is long and slender as in the other Tnsectivora. The scapula (a) in the mole is no less singu- larly formed than the bone just.described. It is elongated to an extraordinary degree, being not less than six times as long as it is broad at the broadest part, which is at the superior extremity. Towards the middle it is contracted and almost cylindrical; and the spine, which runs nearly the whole length of the bone, is at this part almost effaced. The acromion, as before ob- served, has only a ligamentous connexion with the clavicle. In Condytura and Scalops the construction of this bone is somewhat similar, and in Chrysochloris it is also of considerable length. The humerus in the mole (Jigs. 442, c, 443) is of so extraordinary a form, that were it examined alone, isolated from its natural con- nexions, it would be impossible to detect its true character It is of a square form, extremely broad at the superior part, where it presents two articular surfaces; the an- terior is very broad, slightly convex; the posterior and internal is narrow, but more convex than the former; by the first it is articulated to the clavicle, and by the latter to the scapula. Between the former, which may be considered as appertaining to the greater tuberosity of the bone, and the head, is a deep fossa. The body of the bone is short, thick, and very broad, and is curved upwards, so that its articulation with the forearm is placed actually higher than the shoulder, and the palm of the hand is consequently turned outwards. In Chrysochloris the form of this bone is not less remarkable. It is somewhat longer than that of the mole; its articulation with the forearm constitutes half a sphere; and the inner condyle is so elongated and inclined downwards, that the whole bone forms an arch of which the convexity is turned outwards. This condyle is articulated with a bone, which must be considered as a most extraordinary modification of the ospisiforme, which is as long as the radius, so that in fact the forearm may be said to be composed of three bones. The bones of the forearm (Jig.442, d,e) in the extraordinary animal which offers so many de- viations from typical structure, the mole, are no less remarkable than those of the shoulder. The ulna is very broad and much flattened ; its superior extremity is enlarged transversely, the anterior surface concave, the posterior convex. The radius is separated by a considerable in- terval from the ulna throughout their length, and the two bones are only united at the upper extremity by a capsular ligament. But the articular surfaces of the two bones are flat, and the head of the radius is prolonged into a hook- like process, forming a sort of radial olecranon, so that rotation is impossible. The carpal bones (Jig.444) consist of two series of five in each, and an additional bone of a very peculiar construc- tion. This is a large sickle-shaped or falciform bone, having the convex margin outwards; it extends from the carpal extremity of the radius to the first metacarpal bone. It is this bone which gives the great breadth to the hand, which is so important to this animal in its peculiar mode of life. The phalanges of the fingers are very short, and covered by the integument in such a manner as to appear to belong to the meta-