FORE-ARM. 362 vein; its branches are numerous throughout its course, which terminates at the wrist-joint in the supply of branches to the skin on the dorsum and ball of the thumb, which inosculate with the cutaneous of the radial. This last-mentioned branch, the cutaneous of the radial, is derived from its trunk on the outer side of the middle of the arm; imme- diately after that nerve has emerged from between the triceps extensor and the bone, a series of branches is distributed to the skin of the arm. The remainder of the nerve, which is a descending branch of some size, passes down behind the elbow-joint, and be- coming subcutaneous supplies the skin of the posterior surface of the outer half of the fore- arm, and corresponds to the musculo-cutaneous on the anterior. Thus it will be seen that the skin on the inner side of the fore-arm, both anteriorly and posteriorly, is supplied by the internal cutaneous, while that on the outer side is supplied in front by the musculo-cu- taneous, and behind by the radial nerve. The superficial veins of the fore-arm, though subject to the greatest variety, are usually distinguished by the names of the cephalic, basilic, and median. The two first commence on the back of the hand; the cephalic on the external, and the basilic on the internal side. They freely anastomose at the lower part of the fore-arm, after which they separate, and reaching the anterior surface below the elbow, are joined by the median vein, as described in the article Elbow. The superficial absorbents take nearly the same course as the veins, though they are far more numerous, and on the whole pursue a straighter direction. The course of these vessels is occasionally demonstrated in the living subject by active inflammation of their coats following the absorption of irritating matter. Aponeurosis.—The aponeurosis of the fore- arm is simply a continuation of the same structure, which surrounds and supports the muscles of the upper arm ; it varies very much in density and appearance in different situa- tions ; this difference arises from the fact that both the triceps extensor and biceps flexor cubiti send to it many fibres, which not merely give additional strength to its texture, but also act as a medium through which these muscles possess the power of making tense the fascia. This provision for tightening and supporting the fascia of the fore-arm is analogous to those arrangements which we meet with in the thigh and leg. The fascia of the fore-arm is strongest at the posterior part of the limb, on each side of the olecranon. The fibres derived from the tendon of the triceps on the external side pass trans- versely outwards to be inserted into the outer condyle, intermingling with the radial exten- sors at their origin, at the same time firmly connected to the olecranon process, posteriorand internal edge of the ulna, thus forming a dense and firm covering to the anconeus, between which muscle and the extensor carpi ulnaris a process of fascia is met with which forms a dense septum between the two. The fibres from the internal edge of the triceps at the upper part also pass transversely, reaching the inner condyle, intermingle with the origin of the flexor muscles ; others again, descending at the back part of the arm, form an aponeurosis over the flexor carpi ulnaris; while those which pass forwards intermingle with the aponeurotic fibres of the biceps. These fibres from the biceps are uniformly strong and distinct, and give a great firmness and density to the fascia on the inner side of the arm covering the flexor muscles, which is not met with on the outer side of the arm supporting the supinators. The fascia in front of the fore-arm which covers the supinators receives its last fibrous connexion from the tendon of the deltoid. The fascia of the fore-arm on reaching the posterior part of the wrist-joint has interwoven with its texture many beautifully distinct fibres, taking a slightly oblique course from without to within, and from above to below ; these fibres, which are firmly attached to the radius on the outer side and the ulna on the inner, become insen- sibly lost in the fascia on the back part of the hand, which resembles in its homogeneous appearance the fascia on the lower part of the fore-arm; these supplementary fibres to the fascia, though presenting a distinct edge neither above nor below, act as a ligament to the exten- sor tendons in their passage behind the wrist- joint, which has been called by some anatomists the posterior annular ligament; between these tendons and the ligament there is a large and distinct bursa, not unfrequently the seat of inflammation. The fascia on the lower and fore part of the fore-arm, consisting principally of transverse fibres, becomes gradually thinner, and in front of the wrist-joint is inseparably in- terwoven with the fibres of the annular ligament. The aponeurosis of the fore-arm forms many septa between the muscles. Commencing with the description of the septa in the back part of the arm, we find a dense and strong one sepa- rating the anconeus from the extensor carpi ulnaris, and from which the latter muscle takes part of its origin. A second dips between the extensor carpi ulnaris and extensor communis digitorum, giving origin to both. A third is found between the common extensors of the fin- gers and radial extensors. The radial extensors and supinators are not thus separated from each other. A fourth process, distinct though com- paratively thin, separates the supinator radii longus from the brachialis anticus, the tendon of the biceps, pronator radii teres, and flexor carpi radialis. There is also another process which unites the tendon of the supinator radii longus on the outer side to the flexor carpi ulnaris on the inner side, and forms a firm and dense covering to the radial artery. The pro- nator radii teres is scarcely separated from the flexor carpi radialis by a distinct septum, though the last-mentioned muscle is completely separated from the palmaris longui by a dipping in of the fascia. Between the flexor communis digitorum sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris there is a very perfect and distinct septum.