98 NDOSMOSIS. digestion. It is well known that an effect of lightning or the electric shock is to deprive animated bodies very suddenly of their irrita- bility ; and that thereby they are rendered more readily disposed to pass into a state of disso- lution than they would otherwise be; in which condition the digestive powers of the stomach can be much more speedily and effectually exerted on them. If any creature may seem to require such a preparation of the food more than another, it is the torpedo, the whole intes- tinal canal of which is not more than half as long as the stomach." These views receive some support from the fact that the nerves of the stomach are derived from those supplying the electrical organs; and perhaps also from the fact, reported by Dr. Davy regarding a torpedo, in which, after it had been frequently excited to give shocks, diges- tion seemed to be completely arrested. The only conclusion to which, in the present state of our knowledge, we can come on this point is, that although the electrical organs form a very efficient means of defence from their enemies for the fishes which possess them, this is not the only purpose they are intended to serve ; what, however, their other uses are is at present only matter of conjecture. There remains yet unentered upon a large field of enquiry connected with the physiology of those wonderful organs, which, we doubt not, will yield to future ages very striking examples of that nice and close adaptation of means to ends which so clearly proves to us the existence and continued exercise of Wisdom Supreme, " upholding all things by the word of his power," making the smallest of his works " very good," and " to be thought upon." Bibliography.— Volta, Memorie sull' elettri- cita animali, 1782. Gahani, Dell' uso e dell' at- tivita dell' arco conduttore nelle contrazioni dei moscoli. Bologna, 1794. Ejus. Memorie sull' elettricita animate, Bologn. 1797. Fowler, Expe- riments and Observations relative to the influence called animal electricity. Lond. 1793. Aldini, Essai Theorique et experimental sur le Galvanisme, et in Bulletin des sciences, an xi.. No. 68. Pfaff, Ueber thierische Elettricitiit und Reizburkeit. Leipzig, 1795. Humboldt, Versuche iiber die ge- reizte Muskel und Nervenfaser. Berlin, 1797. Treviranus, Biologie. Tiedemann, Physiologic M'uller, Physiologie. Carus, Anat. Comp. French ed. t. i. Lorenzini, Osservazioni interno alle tor- pedini, Flor. 1678. Walsh, Phil. Trans. 1774. Pringle on the Torpedo, Lond. 1783. higenhousz, Phil. Trans. 1775. Hunter, Phil. Trans, t. lxiii. et lxv. Geoffrey Saint Hilaire, Ann. du Mns. t. i. Humboldt, Kecueil d'observ. de zoologie et d'anat. comp. Knox, Edin. Journal of Science, 1824. Todd, Phil.Trans. 1816. Davy, Phil. Trans. 1834. Majendie and Desmoulins, Anat. des Systemes Nerv. t. ii. Rudolphi, Abhandl. der Acad, der Wissen- schaft in Berlin, 1820. Becquerel, Tiaite d'Elec- tricite et Galvanism, t. iv. Par. 1836. (John Coldstream.) ENCEPHALON. In order to lay before the reader a connected view of the Anatomy of the Encephalon in conjunction with that of the Medulla Spinalis, the Anatomy of both these organs will be given under the article " Ner- vous Centres." ENDOSMOSIS, (ivSov, intus, acr^o?, im- pulsus).—Accident having made me acquainted with the fact that a small animal bladder, con- taining an organic fluid, became considerably distended by remaining for some time plunged in water, and that the water even expelled"the thicker fluid contained within the bladder, when there was a hole by which it could escape, I be- thought me of the probable cause of this pheno- menon, and soon came to the conclusion that it depended on the difference of density between the included or interior fluid, and the water or exterior fluid. I found that the coeca of fowls filled with milk,thin syrup, &c. and secured with a ligature, became turgid and even excessively distended when treated in the same way. I now discovered that the fluids contained in the coeca permeated their coals, and were diffused in the surrounding water. I saw, further, that two opposite currents were established through the parietes of the coeca; the first and stronger formed by the exterior water flowing towards the fluid contained in the coeca; the second and weaker, by the thick included fluid flow- ing towards the water. To the first of these currents I gave the name of Endosmosis, and to the second that of Exosnwsis. These titles, I must allow, are objectionable, and perhaps badly chosen. The first conveys the idea of an entrance and the second of an exit. Now, the phenomenon, regarded in its proper point of view, consists in a double permeation of fluids, abstracted from any idea of entrance or exit. Besides, the current of endosmosis, which, etymologically speaking, expresses an in-going current, may nevertheless be, experimentally speaking, an out-going current; this, for exam- ple, happens when a hollow membranous organ, containing water, comes to be placed in contact exteriorly with a fluid more dense than water. There is then a current of endosmosis which goes out of the bladder, and a current of exos- mosis which enters it. Thus facts are found in contradiction to the terms, and these I should not have hesitated to change, if their general adoption did not render this change very diffi- cult, and subject to great inconvenience. I have, therefore, resolved to retain them, wishing it to be understood by naturalists that no attention is here paid to their etymological signification. To estimate the amount of endosmosis I contrived an apparatus to which I gave the name of endosmometer; it consists of a small bottle, the bottom of which is taken out, and replaced by a piece of bladder. Into this bottle I pour some dense fluid, and close the neck with a cork, through which a glass tube, fixed upon a graduated scale, is passed. I then plunge the bottle, which I entitle the reservoir of' the endosmometer, into pure water, which, by en- dosmosis, penetrates the bottle in various quan- tities through the membrane closing its bottom. The dense fluid in the bottle, increased in quan- tity by this addition, rises in the tube fitted to its neck, and the velocity of its ascent becomes the measure of the velocity of the endosmosis. To measure the strength of endosmosis, I have made use of an endosmometer in which the tube was twice bent upon itself, the as-