ELASTICITY. 5(3 beings, it would be improper to omit some notice of those properties of' matter which are so frequently and so admirably employed in fitting them for their uses. In this article we shall offer, in the first place, some remarks upon elasticity generally, upon its laws, and upon the distinction between it and other forces ; we shall next advert to its existence in the organized tissues of the animal machine; and, lastly, we shall point out some important actions in the living body where elasticity plays a principal part. I. General remarks on elasticity—its laws, fyc.—The degree of elasticity possessed by un- organized bodies is extremely variable; in some it is so great that they have obtained the name of perfectly elastic; while in others this property is so extremely small, that its very existence has been overlooked. Air is the most perfectly elastic substance with which we are acquainted ; in experiments made upon atmospheric air a portion of it has been left for years subjected to a continued pressure, upon the removal of which under the same temperature and barometric altitude, it forth- with resumed its original volume. Amongst solid bodies, the most conspicuously elastic are certain metals and metallic alloys, glass, ivory, &c; while other solids, such as moist clay, butter, wax, and many similar substances, possess elasticity in an almost imperceptible degree. Fluids have long been considered as completely inelastic; but though it is ex- tremely difficult to demonstrate this property, yet the experiments of Canton would seem to indicate its existence; they place at least be- yond all doubt their possession of another property, namely, compressibility, — a pro- perty somewhat allied to that we are now con- sidering. The laws which regulate the elastic force are not exactly the same in these three classes of natural bodies. In the gaseous or perfectly elastic bodies elasticity may be said to deter- mine their volume: their particles having an incessant tendency to expand into a greater space are controuled merely by the surround- ing pressure, and hence the bulk of gases is always inversely proportional to the compres- sing force. This law, at least in the case of atmospheric air, applies within all known de- grees of condensation and rarefaction. By means of accumulated pressure, air may be so reduced in volume, that upon suddenly libe- rating it, as in the air-gun, it expands with amazing force ; and in the receiver of the air- pump, even when reduced to one-thousandth pirt its original quantity, it has still elasticity enough to raise the valve. Another important law of elasticity in gases is that its power is increased by heat and diminished by cold, and this applies not only to the permanently elastic gases but to those likewise of another kind, such as the vapours of alcohol, mer- cury, nitric and muriatic acids, and water; the elastic vapours of the nitric and muriatic acids not unfrequently burst the vessels containing them; the vapours of mercury have broken through an iron box; and the vapours of al- cohol have sometimes occasioned in distil- leries the most terrible explosions: the elas- ticity of steam, and the fact that wg can in- crease its power to any extent by means of heat, has enabled us to construct the steam- engine, and thus armed mankind with a phy- sical power superior to every obstacle. Solid bodies are never perfectly elastic; for although some, when acted upon by forces within a certain range, are as completely elastic as the gases themselves, yet if the disturbing force be carried beyond a certain degree, they will never resume their original condition. Thus, a harp-string gently drawn by the finger is thrown by its elasticity into vibratory mo- tions, returning when these have ceased to its exact original state: this may be frequently repeated and always with the same effect, as proved by the same note being repeatedly ob- tained. If, however, it be once drawn with too great a force, it no longer returns to its original condition, a different tone is now produced by it: in other words, the solid substance of which it is composed exhibits a perfect elasticity, not, as the gases, under every degree of force, but only within a certain limit. Heat pro- duces very different effects upon the elasticity of gaseous and solid bodies; we have just seen that we can increase the elastic power of the former to any extent by means of heat, but the elasticity of solids is, on the contrary, usually diminished by it; very high tempera- tures completely destroy it even in the most elastic metals. The design of this article does not permit us to enter more fully into the con- sideration of those laws, or of the experiments by which they are demonstrated. We must refer for the further investigation of this sub- ject to works which treat expressly upon physics. The various hypotheses which have been put forth to explain the nature of elasticity, though many of them extremely ingenious, do not however properly come within the pro- vince of the physical much less of the phy- siological enquirer. Indeed, while men di- rected their attention to such speculations little or no progress was made in real knowledge. The cause of elasticity, like that of life, is probably beyond the sphere of human un- derstanding ; and hence, in both sciences, the method of investigation should be the same— to study the laws or conditions under which the phenomena present themselves, and to lay aside all speculations as to their causes. But in abandoning these inquiries into the nature of elasticity we must particularly advert to the necessity of the physiologist possessing a clear and definite idea of this property of matter, so as to be enabled to recognize it under every circumstance, and to distinguish it from other physical and vital forces. Ignorance upon this point has been at all times a fruitful source of error in physiological investigations. The pro- perty with which it is especially liable to be confounded is contractility: when it is re- membered that at one period of medic al his-