HEART. 595 tinuous with its inner coat. If we trace they inner membrane of the left side of the heart from the entrance of the pulmonary veins, we find that, after lining the auricle, it is continued through the auriculo-ventricular opening, and is there folded upon itself to assist in forming the mitral valve. In the left ventricle it sur- rounds the chordae tendineae and unattached columnar carnese in the same manner as in the right ventricle ; and at the origin of the aorta it assists in forming the semilunar valve, and be- comes continuous with the inner coat of the artery. These membranes adhere intimately to the inner surface of the heart by close cellular tissue, and have their inner surface perfectly polished and smooth. That of the left auricle is thicker than that of the right. They are thicker in the auricles than in the ventricles. In the ventricles, except near the origin of the large arteries, they are exceedingly thin. Nerves of the heart.—The heart is supplied with nerves from the sympathetic and par vagum. The sympathetic branches come from the superior, middle, and inferior cervical gan- glia, and frequently also from the first dorsal ganglion. The branches from the par vagum come directly from the trunk of the nerve, and indirectly from the recurrent or inferior laryn- geal. The course of these on the right side differs from those of the left in some respects, and requires a separate description. These nerves, like most of the other branches of the sympathetic, are very irregular in their size, number, and origin, so that it would be difficult to find two subjects in which they are exactly alike; they are also very irregular in their course before they reach the cardiac plexus, but become more regular when they gain the arteries of the heart, whose branches they ac- company. These nerves, after forming diffe- rent anastomoses and plexuses with each other of the same side, converge at the upper and back part of the arch of the aorta, where they form a free anastomosis with those of the oppo- site side, and then pass on to the heart. The left cardiac nerves are sometimes much smaller than those on the right side, so as to appear, as in the dissection described by Lobstein,* merely accessory to those on the right. On the other hand the size of those on the left side may pre- ponderate considerably over those on the right. The proportional size of the different nerves of the same side is also very various. When the nerves of one side are small, the deficiency is made up by the greater size of those of the op- posite side ; and when any particular branch is either unusually small or entirely wanting, its place is supplied by the greater size of the other nerves of the same side, or of those of the opposite side. The branches from the par vagum, particularly those coming from the re- current, vary also considerably in size. All the sympathetic branches of the cardiac plex- uses are of a gray colour, and are generally not so soft as Scarpa has described them. The right cardiac branches of the sympathe- * De Nervi Sympathetici humani fabrica, &c. pp. 16 & 18. tic are generally three in number: 1st, superior cardiac (supremus et superficialis cordis) arises from the lower and inner part of the superior cervical ganglion, or from the continuation of the sympathetic between the superior and middle ganglia, or from both these origins. It generally also receives a filament from the par vagum. In its course down the neck it lies behind the sheath of the carotid artery. It anastomoses with the external laryngeal nerve and descendens noni, and sends a twig along the inferior thyroid artery to the thyroid body ; and at the lower part of the neck it sometimes divides into two branches as figured by Scarpa,* one of which unites itself to the middle car- diac, the other forms an anastomosis with the recurrent nerve of the same side. At other times it passes into the thorax either in front or behind the subclavian artery, takes the course of the arteria innominata, and reaches the pos- terior part of the arch of the aorta, where it anastomoses with branches of the middle and inferior cardiac nerves, or with branches of the recurrent. It more rarely appears to pass to the cardiac plexus without any anastomosis with the middle and inferior cardiac branches. It frequently presents a ganglion in its course down the neck. Middle cardiac nerve.—This nerve arises by several short twigs from the middle cervical ganglion. This is generally the largest of the cardiac nerves, and is named by Scarpa the great or deep cardiac nerve (n. cardiacus me- dius, s. profundus, s. magnus). It proceeds downwards and inwards, crosses the subclavian artery, sometimes in front, at other times it di- vides into several branches, which surround the artery and again unite. It anastomoses with the branches of the recurrent, in the neigh- bourhood of which it runs, also with the par vagum, superior and inferior cardiac nerves; and following the course of the arteria innomi- nata it passes behind the arch of the aorta to terminate in the cardiac plexus. Inferior cardiac nerve (n. cardiacns minor of Scarpa).—This nerve generally arises by fila- ments from the inferior cervical ganglion, some- times from the first dorsal ganglion, at other times from both. It proceeds behind the sub- clavian artery near to the recurrent nerve. It follows the course of the innominata close to the middle cardiac, with which it anastomoses, and proceeds to join the cardiac plexus. Left cardiac nerves.—Perhaps the differences in the course of the right and left cardiac nerves are principally to be attributed to the known differences between the large arteries of the two sides. The left superficialis cordis is figured by Scarpaf as dividing a little above the arch of the aorta into four branches; two of these pass in front of the aorta to form an anastomo- sis with a branch of the par vagum and deep cardiac ; a third also passes in front of the aorta, to unite itself with the middle cardiac; and the remainder of the nerve proceeds behind the arch to unite itself with the cardiac plexus. * Tab. iii. Tabulae Neurologies, &c. i Tab. iv. op. cit. 2 u 2