788 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. opinion as to this case, we would cer- tainly question much the correctness of the conjecture, that the inflammation of the hip- joint was altogether limited to the synovial membrane: no doubt, so far as the hip was concerned, the inflammation began in the syno- vial structures ; but who can doubt that in this case the cartilages became secondarily en- gaged, that the acetabulum itself was after a time implicated, and that an abscess had formed ? For our parts, we have little doubt that all the structures entering into the compo- sition of the articulation were implicated in the inflammation of the joint. It has been above stated, as the opinion of the author now cited, that synovitis has for the most part the form of a chronic affection, but as a proof that a disease, apparently slight, and of a part no way concerned in the vital functions, may produce such a degree of dis- turbance of the constitution as rapidly to occa- sion death, he adduces the following case.* Sir B. Brodie considers it a case of inflam- mation of the synovial membrane, (synovitis coxa?,) which ran its course to a fatal termina- tion in the short space of a week. A young lady, nine years of age, being at play on the 1st of January, 1808, fell and wrenched her hip; she experienced so little uneasiness, that she walked out on that day as usual; in the evening she went to a dance, but there was seized with a rigor, was carried home, and put to bed. Next morning she was much indisposed, and complained of pain in the thigh and knee; on the following day she had pain in the hip, and was feverish. These symptoms continued ; she became deli- rious, and died just a week from the time of the accident. On inspecting the body on the following day, the viscera of the thorax and abdomen were found in a perfectly healthy state. The hip-joint on the side of the injury contained about half an ounce of dark-coloured pus, and the synovial membrane, where it was reflected over the neck of the femur, was destroyed by ulceration for about the extent of a shilling-. This was an awful case, and such, fortunately, are rare ; however it has been our lot to witness some very similar in their course and unhappy termination, and we have always looked upon them as specimens of that terrible disease "diffuse inflammation." The next case, No. XVI. in Sir B. Brodie's work,f vve look upon exactly in the same light. The following the writer saw under the care of his lamented friend, the late Dr. M'Dowd. Synovitis coxa with periostitis succeeding to a full oh the hip—deutli in eight days.—Peter Neale, at. 12, admitted into the Richmond Surgical Hospital, January 11, 1833. Four days previous to admission he fell from a wall of moderate height, on the left hip, which was so much contused, that he was unable to stand upon the limb, and was carried home. The pain and constitutional disturbance increased ■daily ; on admission it was found that the left * Case XV. p. 64, 3d edit, t Page 65, 3d edition. hip-joint was very tense and swollen ; the pain was so excruciating that he was unable to move in bed without assistance; his countenance anxious, sunken, and expressive of intense suf- fering, tongue furred, black sordes on his teeth ; he was delirious, and screamed without inter- mission ; his hip became more tender, tense, and swollen ; he also now complained of pain in the right shoulder and elbow. To these symptoms succeeded drowsiness, tendency to coma, occasional muttering delirium ; he now had a peculiarly wild and frightened look. He died on the morning of the 15th ; the fourth from his admission into the hospital, and the eighth from the time of the fall on the hip. The post-mortem examination took place four hours after death. On cutting through the left glutaeal muscles, matter issued from nu- merous small points ; the muscular fibres were of a deep red colour ; the periosteum was de- tached from the entire of the ilium by a quan- tity of dark brown pus, which passed through the great sciatic notch, and separated the mem- brane from the whole concavity of the bone, which was of a pink colour; the fluid had passed through a small ulcerated opening in the capsule of the joint from the cotyloid cavity; small portions of lymph were found on the head of the bone, and the synovial mem- brane, covering the fatty mass at the bottom of the acetabulum, bore evidences of acute inflam- mation having existed here ; and the surface of the synovial membrane was also covered with lymph. There was no ulceration of the carti- lages. The right shoulder-joint healthy. In the right elbow-joint a fluid in small quantity, resembling that which was contained in the hip-joint.* Cartilage.—The inflammation and ulcera- tion of the cartilages of the hip-joint are said by Sir B. Brodie to be most frequently met with in those who have passed the age of puberty, and who are under thirty or thirty-five ; but that they are sometimes seen in young children, and occasionally in those advanced in life: when the cartilage covering the bones which enter into the articulation of the hip-joint are affected, the progress of the case is slow; the pain is at first trivial, the degree of lameness slight; but as there is no effusion of pus or increased secretion of synovial fluid, there is no appreciable external swelling; but the pain, the wasting of the limb, and lameness gra- dually increase, with the spasmodic startings, and abscess and dislocation follow, as in cases in which the inflammation originated in other tissues. To exhibit the disease of the cartilage where this structure alone is engaged, we must have some opportunity of witnessing it in an individual who has died of some other com- plaint. The following case well illustrates the opinion of the first authority on such a sub- ject. John Catmah, 44 years of age, was admitted into St. George's Hospital on the 29th of Sep- tember, 1813, with pains of the lower limb of * See Dr. M'Dowel's observations in the 3d and 4th volume of the Dublin Journal, on Synovitis, &c.