ORGAN OF HEARING. 533 * Op. cit. * De atiditu ct olfactu, cap. li. s. 19. p. 35. cavity, and by the other on the surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. They are generally associated with the name of Co- tugno,* who, though not their discoverer, was the first to give a complete description of them. One, called aqueductus vestibuli, communicates with the vestibule; the other, aqueductus cock- Lea, with the tympanic scala of the cochlea. The internal orifice of the aqueduct of the vestibule is observed to commence by a groove or sulcus, the sulciform depression already de- scribed in the vestibule, immediately below and in front of the opening common to the two vertical semicircular canals. From this the aqueduct turns itself round the inner wall of the common canal, and then follows a course downwards and backwards. Gradually widen- ing, it opens under that sort of osseous scale observed a little behind the middle of the pos- terior and inner surface of the petrous bone, just above the jugular fossa ; towards the latter there is usually a groove running on the surface of the bone from the orifice of the aqueduct. The length of the course of the aqueduct of the vestibule is about one-third of an inch. The aqueduct of the cochlea commences by a very small orifice in the lower wall of the scala tympani immediately before the fenestra rotunda. It proceeds downwards, inwards, and forwards, in the inner wall of the jugular fossa of the temporal bone, and widening in its course it opens at the bottom of that tri- angular pyramidal depression, situated towards the middle of the edge which limits the inner and inferior surfaces of the petrous bone, and below the internal auditory meatus. The length of its course is about a quarter of an inch. The aqueduct of the cochlea is very wide in the pig. Of the aqueducts we shall observe farther in speaking of the membrane lining the labyrinthic cavity. Fig 233. The labyrinthic cavity of the right side, magnified two diameters. a. superior horn of the vestibule ; b. posterior and inferior horn; r. anterior and inferior horn leading into the cochlea; rf. hemispherical depres- sion ■, e. hemi-ellipiical depression ; f. pyramidal elevation bet ween the two having a porous sieve - like appearance from being pervaded by canals for the passage of nervous filaments •, t/. superior vertical semicircular canal; It. its ampullavy dila- tation ; t. posterior vertical semicircular canal ; k. its ampullary dilatation; /. canal common to the superior and posterior vertical semicircular canals ; m. orifice by which the" common canal opens into the vestibule ; n. horizontal semi- circular canal; o. its ampullary dilatation; p. vestibular orifice of the aqueduct of the vestibule ; q. osseous part of the spiral lamina, seen from the surface which corresponds to the vestibular scala; r r. space which is occupied by the membraneous part of the spiral lamina; s. hamulus or hook in which the bony spiral lamina ends; t. helico- trema; u. substance of the petrous bone, between the first turns of the cochlea; v. orifice of the aque- ductus cochleae. Membrane lining the labyrinthic cavity.— The cavities of the osseous labyrinth which we have just described are lined by a serous or fibro-serous membrane, extremely delicate and closely adherent to the surfaces. The mem- braneous labyrinth must not be confounded with it. This membrane, which may be compared to that serous pellicle on the inner surface of the sclerotica, known by the name of mem- brana fusca or arachrioidea oculi, is more manifest at an early age than in adults, and is nowhere so distinct as at the places where the nerves enter, and at the bottom of the tym- panic scala of the cochlea. It is it which completes the spiral septum of the cochlea, by an arrangement immediately to be described. The fenestra rotunda or cochlear fenestra is, in the recent state, closed by a membrane which shuts out the cavity of the tympanum from any direct communication with the cochlea. This membrane, called by Scarpa * the secondary membrane of the tympanum, membrana. tympani secundaria, is concave to- wards the cavity of the tympanum, convex towards the tympanic scala of the cochlea, and is received at its circumference into a groove within the orifice of the fenestra rotunda. It is composed theoretically of three layers, the inner of which is nothing but the fibro-serous membrane under consideration. The outer layer is a continuation of that which lines the cavity of the tympanum. The third and pro- per layer is situated between the two men- tioned. The same may be said in regard to that membrane, which, together with the base of the stapes, closes the vestibular fenestra. The membrane lining the tympanic scala of the cochlea is continued into that lining the vestibular scala at the opening called heli- cotrema. The membrane of the vestibular scala is continuous with that lining the vesti- bule, which on its part is continuous with that of the semicircular canals. Lastly, the same membrane lines the aqueducts. Such is a general description of the mem- brane lining the labyrinthic cavity; but to understand the disposition of the cochlea and aqueducts in the recent state, we must take a nearer view of this membrane such as it exists in those cavities, which, indeed, is the must important and difficult part of it. Of the cochha in the recent state.—The cochlea is the last addition made to the laby- rinth in the ascending scale of the animal series. As was said, it is in birds in a very ru-