968 INSECTA. Fig. 425 Lateral viexv of the alimentary canal of the larva of Melohmtlia vulgaris, with the three series of gastric vessels the stomach is slightly constricted, and receives the insertions of another set of caeca, which differ from the last in being single, co- nical, and directed backwards. At some dis- tance beyond these, the stomach is encircled by a third set of caeca, which differ from both the preceding in being united in pairs at their base, and inserted, with their apices directed forwards, near the posterior part of the stomach. Those coeca, both of the second and third series, which are nearest to the upper part of the stomach, are the shortest. These cceca are not analogous to the hepatic vessels, or ra- ther those usually so designated, but to the gastric glands which cover the stomach in the Carabida (Jig. 424) and Lucanida (Jig. 428), and appear in this voracious larva designed to secrete a fluid that may be necessary to enable the stomach to digest the immense quantity of vegetable matter taken into it. In the Lepi- dopterous larvae the canal is scarcely more developed than in the Coleopterous, since, although the oesophagus is elongated, and the larger intestines are somewhat more complicated, no series of gastric glands are de- veloped. We believe we have seen those which surround the cardiac extremity in some liowbi/- cida, as in Odonestis potatoria, immediately after the insect was killed, but merely as little rounded protuberances, the character of which was completely lost after the insect had been preserved for a short time in spirits of wine. They exist also very distinctly in the Sphinx. In this order it commences by a distinct oeso- phagus (fig. 364, c), which terminates by a val- vular orifice in the third segment in a long and very muscular stomach (C), around which the six longitudinal bands are very distinct, as also are the transverse muscular ones. At the com- mencement of the eleventh segment it becomes constricted, and terminates in a distinct pylo- rus, which ends in a short ilium (e), into the middle of which, on each side, are received the Fie. 426. Xn united termination of the hepatic vessels (f), winch, having extended along the sides of the stomach as far forwards as the seventh segment, are convoluted around this and the remaining portion of the canal. Immediately behind the ilium the canal is developed in a six double- lobed caecum (g), and immediately afterwards into an immense sacculated colon (/»), termi- nated by a very short rectum. The longitu- dinal bands are particularly distinct on the colon, and extend from Us posterior part to the external muscular tegument forming the retrac- tors of the colon and rectum. In the active larvae of (Joleoptera the alimentary canal be- comes still more developed, it commences in the larvae of the Carabida, Culosoma st/cu- phanta (fig. 426), according to Burmeisier,* in a very short oesophagus (H), that opens at the posterior part of the pro-thoracic seg- ment into a large cylindrical stomach (K), which is ex- tended throughout the great- er part of the body, very si- milar in appearance to that of the Lepidopteva. This is called by Burmeister the cruw. It opens directly into another cylindrical sto- mach, much narrower and nearly of the same length, but more muscular than the preceding, and receiving at its posterior extremity (Q), where it forms internally a distinct pyloric valve, the hepatic vessels. Burmeister remarks that there is no valve of separation between the first and second of these stomachs, nor any rudiment of the gizzard, which exists in the perfect insects of this order (fig. 424, i). These are succeeded by a small intestine or ilium (L), which is of some length, and together with the se- cond stomach forms several convolutions in the body between the fust stomach, or craw, and the great in- testine or colon (M), which follows it, and terminates the canal in a protruded Alimentary canal of anal aperture (U). The the larva of Calo- co]on> as ln most larva?, is soma sycophanta. muscular and folded (Burmeister.) ■> . . , transversely, and altogether the canal is more developed than in the pre- ceding instances, as also are its appendages the hepatic vessels, which are exceedingly long, although no cceca are developed upon them. In the lihinchophora and Longicornes there is a still higher form of alimentary canal, as observed by Burmeisterf in Culundra * Transactions of Entomol. Society of London, vol. i. part 3. t Zur Naturgescliichte dcr Gattung Calandra. Beilin, 1837. 7