562 ORGAN OF HEARING. Sometimes, however, the auditory passage has been found regular though the auricles were wanting. The auditory passage is sometimes found too wide, sometimes too narrow, sometimes too short. Closure of the auditory passage may be either partial or through its whole extent. It is move rarely the effect of disease than of irregular primitive formation. Partial closure may be by an extension of the skin over the mouth of the passage. Authors mention cases of a membraneous septum sometimes deep in the auditory passage and before the membrana tympani, sometimes nearer the entrance of the passage. In monstrous foetuses all the accessory parts of the apparatus of hearing together have been found wanting. II. PARALLEL BETWEEN THE EAR AND THE EYE. A parallel has often been drawn betwixt the ear and the eye. Breschet, in his memoir, already so often cited in the course of this article, compares the perilymph to the aqueous humour, the endolymph to the vitreous hu- mour, and the calcareous concretions to the crystalline body. The comparison which I should institute between the component parts of the ear and the eye is the following:— The osseous labyrinth may be compared to the sclerotica, and the fenestra rotunda, or coch- lear fenestra, to the cornea. To find a part in the eye analogous to the vestibular fenestra, we must first consider that the latter is a yielding part of the otherwise solid wall of the labyrinth; that through the medium of it, the chain of small bones and their muscles in the tympanum exercise on the soft parts contained in the labyrinthic cavity, a certain degree of tension or compression fitted probably to accommodate in some man- ner the ear to the perception of different degrees of sound. In the case of the eye, the sclerotica,which corresponds to the osseous labyrinth, is thinner and more yielding at the middle of its circumference, (remarkably so in the Greenland seal). From this it has been supposed that the action of the muscles of the eye-ball might by their compression produce a change of shape fitted to accommodate the eye to distances. Hence the vestibular fenestra and middle thin part of the sclerotica might be compared to each other in as far as regards the function which each performs in the eco- nomy of its own organ. However this may be, the vestibular fenestra of the ear and the thin part of the sclerotica correspond to each other as far as can be in relative position; and if we admit the action just mentioned of the muscles upon the eye-ball, we have, as I shall imme- diately show, their counterparts in the muscles of the small bones of the tympanum. The tympanic scala of the cochlea may be compared to the anterior chamber of the aqueous humour, and the vestibular scala to the posterior chamber. The spiral lamina, considering its vascu- larity and richness in nerves, and its forming a partition between two chambers containing an aqueous humour, may, as I have already said in a former part of this article, be con- sidered the counterpart of the iris, and the helicotrema that of the pupil. The membrane lining the labyrinthic cavity bears the same relation to the latter as the arachnoidea ticuli* does to the sclerotica. The space filled with perilymph, between the osse- ous and membraneous labyrinth, may be con- sidered analogous to that between the sclerotica and choroid. It however communicates with the scalae of the cochlea, the parts analogous to the chambers of the aqueous humour, be- cause there is nothing in the ear to be com- pared to the ciliary ligament. Forming the membraneous labyrinth we find, 1. a delicate cellular tissue supporting the branches of the bloodvessels, and which is sometimes found containing black pigment; 2. a firm transparent membraneous coat, within which, 3. is a nervous expansion ; 4. the endo- lymph; 5. suspended in the latter the mass of calcareous matter. The cellulo-vascular layer containing pigment, together with the rest of the walls of the membraneous labyrinth, may be compared to the choroid coat of the eye, the nervous expansion to the retina, the endo- lymph to the vitreous humour, and the calca- reous mass to the lens. In the lower animals the cochlea is the first part of the ear-bulb to disappear; in regard to the eye-ball, the aqueous chambers to which I have compared the scalae of the cochlea, are in like manner the first parts which in the de- preciation of the structure of the eye, in the animal series, disappear, e. g. the eye of the Cephalopodous Mollusca. Is the cochlear nerve the same in function with the vestibular? The vestibular nerve is the special nerve of hearing; but does not the cochlear nerve perform some function in the economy of the ear analogous to what the ciliary nerves perform in that of the eye ? If an example is required in which the optic nervous filaments enter the eye separately as do the nervous filaments of the ear-bulb, it is to be found in the Cephalopodous Mol- lusca.f As in front of the eyeball there is, or rather would be, if it was not that the eyelids are constantly in contact with the eyeball, a space lined by a mucous membrane, the conjunctiva, so at the peripheral surface of the ear-bulb, there is a space, the tympanic cavity, lined by a mucous membrane also. Moreover, as there is a passage into the nose from the space bounded by the conjunctiva, so does the tym- * See mv figure and description of a horizontal section of the human eye, in Mackenzie's Practical Treatise on Diseases of the Eye. Second Edition. London, 1835. t See a paper " On the Retina of the Cuttle- fish," in the London and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine for January, 1836.