659 ANIMAL HEAT. To render the comparison of the mean sums obtained more certain, we shall confine our- selves to the observations of the inquirer just quoted, made upon the same individuals at different temperatures. The following series is after the data supplied by Dr. Davy :— Temperature of the air. Mean temperature of Jive men. 15°, 5 (60° F ) 36°, 85 (93° F.) 25°, 5 (78° F.) 37°, 16 (99° F.) 26°, 4 (79° F.) 37°, 32 (99° 5, F.) 26°, 7 (80° F.) 37°, 58 (100° F.) 27°, 8 (82° F.) 37°, 70 (100° 5, F.) It is apparent that these differences, even the extremes, do not surpass the limits of the variations which the same individual exhibits, or may experience spontaneously under the same temperature of the air. But when it is con- sidered that these differences are mean results, forming a series increasing with the rise of the external temperature, it is impossible to doubt of their standing in the relation to one another of cause and effect. If this dependence and connection actually exists, we must allow that it is very little obvious at the temperatures within the limits of which these observations were made; for whilst the temperature of the air varied to the extent of 12°, 3 c , the changes in the mean temperature of the body did not exceed 0°, 9. Such slight differences being apt to leave uncertainty in the mind as to the cause producing them, we shall confirm the impres- sion they are nevertheless calculated to make by citing others, for which we are indebted to Dr. Reynaud, surgeon of the corvette La Chevrette, in a voyage of discovery in the Asiatic seas undertaken in the year 1827. The instruments used were furnished by the best makers of Paris, and were compared by M. Arago with those of the Observatory ; and the observations were made conjointly with M. Blosville, lieutenant of the vessel, charged by the Academy of Sciences of Paris with various researches in natural philosophy. Mean temperature of the' body deduced from ob- servations four times re- peated upon each of eight men, under the torrid zone, the external tempe- rature varying from 26° to 30° c. (79°, 86° F-X Mean temperature of the~\ same eight men observed | three times in the tern- I . perate zone, the external j temperature varying from 12° to 17° (53° to 62° F.)_ These results confirm those of Dr. Davy by so much the more as they were made within the same limits of external temperature. The mean rise of the temperature of the body un- der the influence of that of the air is also equally confirmed; but the amount is still less than as given by the English observer. It seems impossible, then, to doubt that the natural variations in the temperature of the air affect that of the body of man ; but this is only in a very trifling degree, at least within the >-37°, 58 (100 F.) 37°, 11 (99° F.) limits of temperature in which any extant ob- servations have been made. It is greatly to be regretted that neither of the observers quoted had opportunities of ascertaining the effects of much lower temperatures than those they have given. There are, it is true, many isolated ob- servations made by voyagers in the Arctic regions, both upon animals and man, and although conducted in no regular series, or as points of comparison with one another, they still lead to the same general result, namely, that great differences in the tempera- ture of the air cause slight differences in the temperature of the body of animals. Thus, in the voyage of Captain Parry it was observed that the temperature of the Mammalia was very high. With the external thermometer at — 29°, 4 (— 21°, F.), the temperature of the white hare was + 38°, 3 (101° F.). With the thermometer at — 32°, 8 (27° F.), the tempe- rature of a wolf was -+- 40°, 5 (105 F.); the temperature of the Arctic fox, under nearly the same circumstances, namely, when the thermo- meter was standing at — 35° (—31° F.), was as high as + 41° 5 (107° F.). Similar obser- vations have since been made in the same high latitudes upon man. The variations in the temperature of warm- blooded animals according to that of the seasons has been studied by the present writer, who con- firms the results just stated. The experiments of the writer were made upon a great num- ber of sparrows recently taken at different seasons of the year, which is preferable to keeping these creatures in captivity for any length of time. The mean temperature of these birds rose progressively from the depth of winter to the height of summer, within the limits of from two to three degrees centigrade. The observations made on sparrows exhibited the greatest differences. In the month of Feb- ruary the mean temperature of these birds was found to be 40°, 8 (105° F.) ; in April 42° (108° F.), in July 43°, 77 (111° F.). The temperature from this time began to decline, and followed, in the same ratio in which it had increased, the sinking temperature of the year. Influence of media upon temperature.—The media in which animals live do not act solely in the ratio of their temperature, but also by virtue of the intensity of their cooling or heating power. Thus air and water at the same degree of heat will have a very different influ- ence on the temperature of the bodies plunged in them. The power of air in heating or cooling is commonly known to be very inferior to that of water. Bodies acquire or lose tem- perature much more slowly in air than in water. A water-bath according to its temperature com- municates sensations of heat or cold far more rapidly and powerfully than an air-bath. The writer and M. Centil made the following experiment:—A young man seventeen years of age, of strong constitution and in good health, after remaining for twenty minutes in a bath the water of which marked 13° R. (61°, 5 F.), whilst the air was 14°, R. (63° F.), half an hour afterwards was found to have lost haM'a degree of his original heat in the mouth and 2x2