546 ORGAN OF HEARING. be muscular by Sir Everard Home and others, but this has not been confirmed by microscopi- cal examination. Mr. Shrapnell* describes at the anterior and superior part of the membrana tympani, above the short process of the malleus and its suspen- sory ligament, and where the groove in the bone is deficient, a flaccid tissue, composed of irre- gularly arranged fibres, to which he gives the name of membrana Jiuccida, in opposition to the re>t of the membrana tympani, which he calls membrana team. This flaccid tissue is more developed in some of the lower animals, the sheep and hare for instance, than in man, and can be readily made to bulge out towards the auditory passage by blowing air into the Eusta- chian tube. But we cannot look upon it, with Mr. Shrapnell, as properly forming any part of the membrana tympani. It is merely a mass of dense, reddish, vascular cellular tissue, sur- rounding the neck of the malleus, and conti- nuous with a similar tissue found under the lining integument of the upper wall of the osseous auditory passage. It is this same tis- sue which has been described as a muscle, and sometimes as a ligament. The membrana tympani has been said to present in the natural state a perforation closed by a valve. Rivinus,-f though not the first to mention it, dwelt on it, however, in a parti- cular manner, hence the perforation has been called hiatus Rivinianus. The subject has been more recently taken up by Wittmann and Vest.} The membrana tympani receives a nerve from the third division of the fifth, which has communications with filaments of the chorda tympani. To resume our description of the cavity of the tympanum:—In the upper wall of the tympanum there is an excavation for receiving the upper part of the incus, and leading from that, at the upper and back part of the tympa- num, is a short, wide, triangular canal, with a rough cellular surface. This is the passage to the mastoid cells, through the medium of a large cell, sinuosiias mastoidea s. sinus mammil- laris, s. antrum mammillare, which already ex- ists in the young bone between the squamous and petrous portions. The mastoid cells are cavities in the mas- toid process, all communicating with each other. They are quite irregular in regard to size, number, and relative situation. In early life, as the mastoid process is not fully formed, they do not exist, they are only found com- pletely developed in the adult. Inferiorly, the cavity of the tympanum forms a sort of furrow, which presents nothing parti- cular. It is bounded by the plate of bone which forms the outer wall of the jugular fossa. * On the form and strueture of the membrana tympani, in London Medical Gazette, vol. x. p. 120. London, 1832. t De audhus vitiis, Lipsiae, 1717, 4, p 32. Tab. adj. Fig. 1, b. et fig. 2, b. X Ueber die Wittmannsche Trommelfellklappe, in den medizinisch. .lahrbiichern des oestr. Staates. Bd. v. Wien, 1819, p. 123, 133. Anteriorly, the cavity of the tympanum opens into the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube. The ossicles or small bones of the ear (ossi- cula auditus s. aurium, Fr. osselets de I' ouie ; Germ. dieGeh'6rkn'6chelchen,orGeh'urbeinchen). In the upper part of the cavity of the tympa- num, there are three small bones articulated with each other, and forming a chain which reaches from the membrana tympani to the ves- tibular fenestra. The bones are named malleus, incus, and stapes, from their resembling more or less respectively a hammer, an anvil, and a stirrup iron. The innermost and most essential is the sta- pes ; it is it alone which in birds and reptiles remains, when the others have disappeared, or been reduced to merely cartilaginous pieces. The stapes is engaged in the vestibular fenes- tra. The outermost of the chain, the malleus, is in connexion with the membrana tympani. The hammer bone, (malleus,) Fr. le marteau, Germ, das Hammer, presents a head, a neck, a handle, and two processes, one longer, and one shorter. The head, caput s. capitulum, is round and smooth on one surface, and on the other pre- sents a saddle-shaped depression, surrounded by a small elevated border. The depression articulates with the incus, and the border is for the attachment of the synovial capsule of this minute joint. The neck, collum s. cervix, is flattened in one diameter, and joins the handle at an obtuse angle. The handle, manubrium mallei, compressed from the side corresponding to the articular depression to the opposite side, and diminish- ing in thickness towards its extremity, forms, together with the short process, a double curve, like an Italic f. The extremity is also com- pressed, as if beaten flat, but in an opposite di- rection, so that the broad surfaces of the extre- mity correspond to the edges of the rest of the handle. Short or blunt process, processus brevis s. obtusus. From the projecting side of the an- gle formed by the junction of the neck and manubrium, this process, which is short, thick and conical, rises. The long or slender process, processus longus, s. gracilis, s. spinosus, s. Folii, springs from the neck, and from that side of it which corres- ponds with the non-articular surface of the head. The long process is of considera- ble length, and terminates in a broad, flat, spatula-like extremity, first described by Rau,* although the commencement or root of the process itself had been previously delineated and described by Folius. The long process is generally found broken off, either from its being so slender, or from its having been, especially in old subjects, united to the groove in which it is lodged. The anvil bone, incus, Fr. Venclume, Germ. * Boerhaave Praelect. in Tnstitt., Prop. iv. p. 358.