ANIMAL HEAT. 671 proportion: it is in fact very slight, although appreciable. What would happen were the retardation in the important motions mentioned more considerable? The temperature would suffer a corresponding and great depression, and various consequences might be conceived as calculated to ensue. If the degree of cold did no injury to the economy, the sleep would last the time required to repair by rest the energy which the nervous system had dissipated or lost by its activity during the period of watching. If, on the contrary, the refrigeration attained a considerable degree, it would by the consequent pain stimulate the nervous system so much as to cause it to wake up to general consciousness; but in case the nervous system were not in a condition to feel this excitement, in other words to re-act and produce waking, it would sink into the state of lethargy. These divers states which we deduce as pos- sibilities, as what might be expected to occur in sleep according to the relations of the func- tions, do in fact present themselves frequently in nature. It commonly enough happens that we are aroused from our sleep by a feeling of cold, although the external temperature has not changed. With regard to the lethargic state, although it certainly occurs but rarely, still it has been acknowledged by the most respectable authorities, and its occasional occur- rence seems indubitable. That, however, which is rare as regards man may be common and even usual as animals are concerned. Phenomena presented by hybernating animals with regard to the production of heat.—If during the height of summer and during the state of watching a dormouse or a bat be exa- mined as to their temperature, this will be found the same as that of many other warm- blooded animals. But if either of these animals be examined whilst asleep at the same season of the year, the temperature will be found to have declined considerably. These changes have been determined by Dr. Marshall Hall, to whom we are indebted for manv ob- servations of high interest upon the state of the circulation in hybernating animals. The writer also observed the same diversities in the temperature of these animals according to their state of sleep or watching; but he had not published his observations at the time Dr. Hall's paper appeared. Here, then, we have several species of warm-blooded animals which, during the hottest season of the year, exhibit in the two states of sleep and watching a very marked contrast in regard to the temperature of their body, which is high during the waking period, low during that of sleep, the external temperature having no part in the phenomena. The difference of temperature coincides very evidently with the state of the nervous system— its energy in watching, its enfeeblement in sleep—a state which we have already seen to influence in a very great degree the rapidity of the motions of circulation and respiration, which are accelerated during the energetic con- dition, retarded during the period of inaction. A higher temperature in the one case and a lower temperature in the other are necessary consequences. These facts are interesting under two points of view. 1st, They show precisely the kind and extent of the influence which the states of watching and sleep exert in general on the production of heat in animal bodies; 2d, they are remarkable in the particular instances under consideration, in this, that the differences exhi- bited during the two states are extreme. It must be allowed, therefore, that those animals in which they take place must have less energetic nervous systems than other warm- blooded animals. From this tendency in the animal economy, there must also be in different species a diversity rather than an equality in the degree in which the phenomena are exhibited. And this is confirmed by obser- vation. Some cool to a much greater extent than others during their sleep in the summer season. They may be said severally to have just as much nervous energy as is requisite to sustain a high temperature in the summer season during their state of highest activity, i. e. during the period of watching, and no more. When the state of excitement ceases, and the collapse that follows excitement supervenes, the languor manifested is much greater than that of other animals in the same condition, and their temperature sinks in proportion. The energy possessed by hyber- nating animals seems barely sufficient to enable them during the summer season to maintain a temperatureof body equal tothatof warm-blood- ed animals in general. They subsequently pre- sent another phenomenon with regard to their temperature well worthy of particular attention, although it be no more than a consequence of the first. Since it is a defect of energy in the nervous system during sleep which prevents their maintaining the degree of rapidity in the motions of circulation and respiration so essen- tial in their turn to the maintenance of a tem- perature of the body but little inferior to that pertaining to the state of watching in summer, how are they to preserve their temperature even during the watching state when the summer declines into autumn, and the autumn into winter? It is evident that if they follow the general rule their respiratory and circulatory motions will be retarded with the fall of the atmospheric temperature, and this by so much the more as their nervous system shows a less degree of energy. It is even presumable that owing to the decline of atmospheric temperature in autumn, they will exhibit a temperature of body during the period of watching analogous to that which they manifest in the heat of the summer season during sleep. And this is pre- cisely what happens. M. de Saissy paid par- ticular attention to the state of these animals at intervals from the month of August onwards. On the 6th of August, the temperature of the air being at 22° c. (72° F.), a dormouse and a marmot marked 36° 5 (98° F.), and a hedge- hog 34° c. (93°, 5 F.) in the axilla. On the 23d September, the external temperature being