388 GASTEROPODA. interior armed in a manner which is probably unique. The sides of the gizzard (b) are covered with pyramidal plates of a rhomboidal figure, the apices of which resemble the tubercles found upon the grinding surfaces of the human molar teeth. Of these there are twelve larger plates arranged in quincunx, besides several smaller ones placed near the entrance of the organ. These teeth are of a horny nature and formed of lamina; parallel to their bases : their adhesion to the surface of the lining membrane is so slight that they are detached by the slightest effort, without leaving any trace of membrane or other bond of union, the place of their attachment being only indi- cated by a smooth and prominent surface, corresponding in shape to the base of each tooth. The apices of all these teeth meet in the centre of the gizzard, and whatever passes through that cavity must be bruised by then- action. The third stomach (<7) is armed with teeth of a totally different nature. These are little conical hooks (c) attached to one side of the organ only, and as little adherent in the dead animal as are the pyramids of the gizzard towards which their points are directed. In the figure many have fallen off, leaving slightly elevated spots indicative of the place of then- attachment. Near the pylorus is a large aper- ture communicating with a caecum of consider- able size (/'), evidently identical with the spiral ccecum of the Cephalopoda both in its position and relation to the insertion of the biliary canals (e), forming, as in Fishes, the rudiment of a pancreas. From the orifice of the coscum a ridge is prolonged into the com- mencement of the intestine (g). Accessory glands.—The auxiliary chylopoietic secretions found in the Gasteropoda are gene- rally only two, the salivary and the hepatic. In some rare instances already adverted to, as in Doris and Aplysia, we may likewise add the pancreatic furnished by the coeca, which in those genera terminate in close vicinity with the ducts issuing from the liver, and which, from every analogy, represent the pancreas of vertebrate animals. The salivary glands are constantly present and seem to present a size and importance corresponding with the mode in which the mastication of the food is accomplished. In those genera which are provided with a cutting apparatus placed in the mouth, they are very largely developed, as also in most of the ptoboscidean species, and it is only in the Cyclobranchiate order, where the long spiral tongue is used rather for the abrasion than the mastication of the food, that they become small, and, in a very few instances, undistinguishable. In jig. 190, which represents the viscera of the Snail, these glands are marked with the letters ««, and this engraving will give a good idea of the general structure which they present, and of the ordinary termination of the ducts which pour the saliva into the oral cavity. The glands are placed along the sides of the stomach, which they partially invest, and sometimes those of the opposite sides are intimately united with each otlier; their colour is whitish and semi-transparent, and they are formed of small lobes, which, in many species where their texture is less compact, may be distinctly seen to be formed of the ramifications of their arborescent ducts, each ultimate division of which is terminated by a secreting granule. In Vaginulus (Jig. 189) the salivary glands are small, but in addition to the ordinary struc- ture (/') we find an additional tube or slender ccecum (*/), which, lying at first upon the stomach, passes through tlie nervous collar to join the duct by which the saliva is discharged. The secondary divisions of the ducts gradually unite to form an excretory canal for each of the two glands, which invariably pour the salivary secretion into the mouth in the vicinity of the tongue. When very small, as in Testacella, Onchidium, and llaliotis, they are found to be merely arborescent tufts placed on each side of the oral mass. In all the Pectinibranchiate order, where the mouth is convened into a protrusible proboscis, the glands themselves (fig. 182, i) are found within the visceral cavity, and their ducts (e, e) are very long and tortuous so as to follow the movements of the proboscis in which they are lodged, running in contact with the oesophagus to open at the extremity of that tube on each side of the spiny tongue; it is even probable that the secretion which they furnish at that point may assist, in some mea- sure, in the destruction of the shells and other hard bodies, which are submitted to the con- tinued action of this organ. In Doris and Pleurobranchus a glandular structure of considerable size is found near the commencement of the oesophagus, which is of a brownish colour and plentifully furnished with bloodvessels. Tins has been looked upon as an auxiliary salivary organ, but as its duct has not been as yet satisfactorily traced, its real nature is unknown : but in Janthina there are distinctly four salivary glands, each furnishing a distinct duct; two of these run, as in Bucci- num, to the extremity of the proboscis, whilst the other pair empties the secretion of the corresponding glands into the commencement of the oesophagus. Biliary system.—The liver throughout the whole class is of great comparative size, en- veloping the convolutions of the intestines and filling a large portion of the visceral cavity. That of the Snail consists of four large lobes (fig. 190, h), each divisible into lobules, and these again into secreting granules, from each of which issues an excretory duct. The ducts gradually unite into larger trunks, so that the whole organ, when unfolded, accurately repre- sents a bunch of grapes, the stem of which would be the common biliary duct. In the same ani- mal the excretory ducts from each of the divisions of the liver unite into one canal, which opens into the pyloric extremity of the stomach (g) in such a manner that as much bile must be poured into the stomach itself as into the com- mencement of the intestine. In the Slug the liver consists of five lobes, and from these are derived two distinct biliary canals, which open separately into the intestine, one on each side