FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. The second, the posterior, little palatine nerve, descends at first between the external pterygoid muscle and the posterior wall of the antrum, then enters the canal, and escapes inferiorly external to the former; it divides into two filaments, one of which is distributed to the soft palate, the other to the tonsils and arches of the palate. Those branches are accompanied by minute branches of the palatine artery. The internal branches vary in number from three to five; they arise from the inner surface of the ganglion, run directly inward, posterior to the nasal branch of the internal maxillary artery, toward the spheno-palatine foramen, which they immediately reach ; pass through the foramen, perforating the structure by which it is closed, and enter the nostril, and thus attach the ganglion closely to the foramen : at their entrance into the nostril they are situate before and beneath the anterior wall of the sphenoidal sinus, at the back part of the su- perior meatus, and immediately above the posterior extremity of the middle turbinate bone. They are distinguishable, according to the majority of descriptions, into two sets; one destined to the outer wall of the nostril and denominated by Meckel anterior superior nasal, in contradistinction to branches of the Vidian nerve, which he has designated " posterior superior nasal," and another con- nected with the septum. A third destination has been assigned to them by Arnold, accord- ing to whom a branch derived either from one of the nerves of the septum, or originally from the ganglion itself, is distributed to the supe- rior part of the pharynx, corresponding to the pharyngeal branch of Bock. The anterior superior nasal branches are either one or two in number; when but one, it divides into branches corresponding to the two; it is so expressed in Arnold's fifth plate ; one of the two divides into filaments, which are distributed to the posterior ethmoidal cells, to the posterior part of the superior turbinate bone, and to the superior meatus, to the mem- brane of those parts. The second distributes its filaments to the convex surface of the mid- dle turbinate bone; according to Cloquet they in part perforate the bone, and thus gain its concave surface: they all run between the periosteum and the mucous membrane, and are distributed finally to the latter. The branches connected with the septum are two, a short and a long one; they both pass across the anterior wall of the sphenoidal sinus from without inward, and thus reach the posterior part of the septum nasi, become attached to it, and changing their direction descend forward along it, between the perios- teum and mucous membrane. The short, lesser, branch is situate very near to the posterior margin of the septum, to which it is parallel in its course, and distri- butes its filaments to the membrane of the posterior part of it: one of them is repre- sented by Arnold as constituting the pharyn- geal branch. The long branch descends to the superior aperture of the anterior palatine canal, enters the canal, and in it the nerves of the two sides are united to a small ganglion denominated the naso-palatine ; from it filaments descend to the anterior part of the palate, in which they are distributed and communicate with filaments of the palatine nerves. Each nerve, during its course along the septum, is situate nearer to its position inferior than to its supe- rior anterior margins: it is said not to give any filaments during its descent, but this is incorrect, as is well represented by Arnold ; those, which it gives off, are distributed to the membrane of the septum about its middle; at times also it divides into two filaments, which are afterwards reunited. Each nerve is received inferiorly in a separate canal, which inclining inward is soon united to the other in the palatine, and in it the nerve or the naso-palatine ganglion receives a filament of communication from the anterior superior den- tal branch of the second division of the fifth, as described by Cloquet. This branch has been particularly described, first by Scarpa,* and by him denominated the naso-palatine; it has been also described by J. Hunter,-}- between whom and Scarpa appears to lie the merit of having first ob- served it; it is also known as " the nerve of the septum," but the latter appellation is ma- nifestly incorrect; nor is the former free from objection, inasmuch as the same title has been applied, and with reason, in the inferior Mam- malia, to the original branch given off by the second division of the fifth for the supply of the nostril and palate, with which the spheno- palatine ganglion is connected, and which in man has received the name of spheno-palatine branch. The branch of the ganglion in ques- tion is called by some the nerve of Cotunnius, but incorrectly ; having been first described by Scarpa, it cannot with justice be attributed to the former. The posterior branch of the ganglion is de- scribed and represented by the majority of authorities as arising single and in its course dividing into two filaments; but Bock, J. F. Meckel, and Hirzel state that the two fila- ments at times are throughout distinct and connected separately to the ganglion; and Arnold represents, in like manner, two fila- ments arising from the ganglion, corresponding to the two into which the single nerve divides. The posterior branch arises from the back of the ganglion, passes directly backward from it, and is received immediately into the pterygoid or Vidian canal, along with the corresponding branch of the internal maxillary artery: it is transmitted through the canal backward and slightly outward, beneath the course of the second division of the fifth itself, and external to, or in many instances beneath the sphenoidal sinus; having traversed the canal, * Annotationes Academics, in which is also con- tained a good representation of the nerve as a single branch. t Animal (Economy.