967 INSECTA. Alimentary canal 'of Carabus monilis. h, (Esophagus ; t, gizzard, or provcntriculus ; k, vcntriculus or digestive stomach ; /, ilium ; m n, colon, with cajcal glands ; o, rectum ; p, hepatic vessels ; q, their point of insertion; s, anal ves- sels ; a, b, v, a gastric vessel; a,b,n portion of the lining of the gizzard. examined by transmitted light, there is a slight appearance of circular fibres. Its texture throughout is distinctly muscular, both longitu- dinal and transverse muscular fibres being dis- tinctly visible in every part of it, and of nearly uniform size. This is a remarkably low form of development in an insect which afterwards becomes one of the most perfectly organized of its class. Tlve next simple form of alimentary canal occurs in the same order of insects, as in the larva of the common Hornet, Vespa crabro, in which it consists of a straight and gradually enlarging tube, extended as far backwards as the eleventh segment, where it becomes con- stricted, and forms a short small intestine, receiving at the same time the insertions of very minute hepatic vessels, after which the intestine becomes again slightly enlarged to form a rudimentary colon. The next somewhat more developed form is found in the Apida, as in Anthophoru rctusa, in which the canal forms a distinct oesophagus, which terminates in a very slight dilatation, and then gradually enlarging, passes onwards, as in the Hornet, until it ac- quires its largest diameter in the eleventh seg- ment, and becomes constricted to form the small intestine, receiving laterally at the same time the insertions of the hepatic vessels. The small intestine then passes forwards, and after making one short sigmoid turn backwards, ends in a straight colon and anal aperture, which is distinctly developed in this insect towards the latter part of the larva period, at which time, after the insect has become full grown and ceased to feed, we have observed feces passed from it, but we have reason to believe that the anal aperture is not developed until that period, since no feces are found in the cell in which the larva is inclosed until after the larva is full- grown, and has eaten the whole of the food that was stored up with it when the cell was closed by the parent. In the larvae of some Coleop- tera, as in the Lamellicornes, there is almost as simple a form of the alimentary canal as in the Apida. In these, as in Melolontha vulgaris, (jig. 425,) it commences in a short and narrow oesophagus, which opens by a valve into a very capacious stomach that extends backwards to the twelfth segment of the body, where it is gradually decreased in size, and ends in a nar- rowed pylorus, which is divided internally by a valve from a short and narrow intestine, that passes forwards beneath the stomach, and ends in a very large colon, which at its commencement is dilated into an immense coecum, and is in general distended with feces. It terminates beneath the middle of the posterior half of the stomach in a rectum, which passes directly to an anal aperture. In our dissection of this larva we did not observe theexact pointat which the biliary vessels enter, but nevertheless they exist, although less distinct than in the perfect insect. They were observed by Swammerdam in the larva of Ori/ctcs nasi* cornis,* entering, four in number, at the pylo- rus. In this and other lamellicorn larva: the surface of the digestive cavity is increased by the addition of three series of ccecal appen- dages. The first surround the cardiac extre- mity, and consist of twelve coecal tubes, with their apices directed forwards, and dilated on each side into four smaller cceca, so that each one has somewhat the appearance of a fern- leaf. From the situation which they occupy, these may perhaps be regarded as salivary organs. A little beyond the insertion of these * Biblia Nat. tab. xxvii. fig. V. c.