ELASTICITY 55 the genera Dasi/pus and Tutmia, comprehend- ing the Armadillos, and in Chlumyplwrus, ex- hibits various modifications of a very extraordi- nary nature. The body of the Munis is co- vered with large imbricated scales, of a more or less rhomboidal form, of a horny consistence, and a reddish brown colour. The true struc- ture of these scales is undoubtedly a congeries of hairs, as is evinced in the longitudinal lines with which they are all marked. They form a very firm and complete protection to the animal when rolled up in a ball, which is its ordinary means of escaping from danger. The scales cover the whole surface, excepting the inferior part of the head and tail, the axilla;, the middle of the belly, the inner surface of the thighs, and the soles of the feet, all of which parts, excepting the latter, are furnished with a few scattered hairs. In the Armadillos an osseous crust or shell envelopes the whole of the upper part of the head and the body, the outer part of the limbs, and the whole of the tail. The inferior parts of the body are not thus protected, but scantly covered with hair, intermixed with a kind of hard warts or scales. Their armour is composed of a helmet covering the upper part of the head, of a buckler over the shoulders, a similar one over the crupper, and the back has numerous imbricated bands, which move upon each other, varying in num- ber in the different species; the tail is covered by rings, also allowing of motion. It is clear that this hard bony armour is capable of afford- ing these animals the most complete protection when coiled up, which is the position usually assumed by them when in danger, or during repose. Although there is mutual motion only at the margins of the different pieces and at the commissures of the bands, there is considerable yielding at every portion of this coat of mail. Each of the larger pieces is composed of nume- rous adherent smaller ones, hexagonal, and per- fectly tessellated; those of the shoulders are arranged in segments of concentric circles, the concavity being in front, so that the anterior series, which is the shortest, embraces the neck of the animal. The covering of the posterior part has a similar arrangement, but reversed, so that the short concave margin meets the origin of the tail. The cuirass of the Chlamy- plwrus truncatus differs in many respects from that of the Armadillos, and is thus described by Dr. Harlam in the only account which we have of the details of this singular animal, with the exception of the very interesting descrip- tion of its osteology by Mr.Yarrell, in the third volume of the Zoological Journal. " The shell which covers the body is of a consistence somewhat more dense and inflexi- ble than sole leather of equal thickness. It is composed of a series of plates of a square, rhomboidal, or cubical form ; each row sepa- rated by an epidermal or membranous produc- tion, which is reflected above and beneath, over the plates ; the rows include from fifteen to twenty-two plates; the shell being broadest at its posterior half, extending about one-half round the body; this covering is loose through- out, excepting along the spine of the back and top of the head ; being attached to the back immediately above the spine, by a loose arti- cular production, and by two remarkable bony processes; on the top of the os fronds, by means of two large plates, which are nearly in- corporated with the bone beneath ; but for this attachment, and the tail being firmly curved beneath the belly, the covering would be very easily detached. The number of rows of plates on the back, counting from the vertex, (where they commence,) is twenty-four; at the twenty- fourth the shell curves suddenly downwards, so as to form a right angle with the body ; this truncated surface is composed of plates nearly similar to those of the back ; they are disposed in semicircular rows, five in number ; the lower margin somewhat elliptical, presents a notch in its centre, in which is attached the free portion of tail, which makes an abrupt curvature, and runs beneath the belly parallel to the axis of the body ; the free portion of the tail consists of fourteen caudal vertebra1, surrounded by as many plates, similar to those of the body ; the extremity of the tail being depressed so as to form a paddle ; the rest of the tail compressed. The caudal vertebra? extend up to the top of the back, beneath the truncated surface, where the sacrum is bent to meet the tail. The supe- rior semicircular margin of the truncated sur- face, together with the lateral margins of the shell, are beautifully fringed with silky hair.'' It is much to be regretted that but little is known of the generation of these animals. The dissections which have hitherto been made of the more interesting forms have been imper- fectly performed, or the subjects themselves have been in such a condition as to allow of but very incomplete observations. For BiBUo^A'rHiY, see that of Mammalia. ELASTICITY (Germ. Springkraft, Fe- derkrqf't) is that property of natural bodies in virtue of which they admit of change either of size or form from the application of external force, resuming, upon the suspension of that force, their proper shape or volume. Though elasticity is a purely physical pro- perty, its investigation is scarcely less interest- ing in physiological than in mechanical science. The most cursory examination of a living body is sufficient to convince us, that nature, in regulating its varied functions, has availed herself no less of physical than of vital laws. As it is the province of the physiologist to explain and analyze the several actions whose aggregate is life, to trace each to its proper source, and to distinguish those which are truly vital from those which are merely mecha- nical, it is plain that an acquaintance with the physical properties of the material elements of living bodies becomes one of the foundations of his knowledge. Hence, in a publication, the design of which is to present a complete view of the structure and functions of living