INSECTA. 960 Organs of vision.—The eyes of Insects are of two kinds, simple and compound, and have been attentively examined by Professor Miiller, Straus Durckheim, Duges, and others, from whose admirable investigations we shall chiefly derive the following description. The large convex cornea? which cover the external surface of the head are divided, as we have seen, into an immense number of facets, generally of an hexagonal shape, or in very rare instances somewhat quadrangular. Each facet, (fig. 419, b,) or as it has sometimes been called, corneule, is the proper cornea of a distinct eye, and is perfectly transparent. It is somewhat broader at its base or external surface (b, c) A, section of the eye of Melolontha (Straus). ii, section of eye of Libellula (Muller ). C, sec- tion of do. (Duges). b, the external convex surfaces of the facet or corneule c, c, c; d, base of the corneules; a, the anterior chamber be- tween the corneule and iris; e, pupillary aper- ture in the iris, formed by the reflexion inwards of the choroid ; /, the cones filled with the vitreous humour; g, the nerve ; /(, the choroid surround- ing the fibres of the optic nerve. than at itsinternal,(rf,) and each one is separated from those by which it is surrounded by the inter- position of a layer of dark-coloured pigment, so that therays of light can pass through it only in a direction converging to its centre. In some in- stances, as in Lepidoptera, it is convex both on its external and internal surface, or lens-like, but in general is nearly plane. In the Libellu- lina, according to Duges, (c,) it is convex exter- nally, and slightly concave internally, and it va- ries considerably in thickness in different in- sects, and in different facets in the same compound cornea. Immediately behind each corneule is a layer of dark-coloured pigment, (/>,) which is believed to be continuous with the delicate pigment that is interposed between the cornea?. It covers the whole of the inner surface of the cornea, excepting only in the centre, where it is perforated by a minute hole or pupil- lary aperture, (e,) to admit the rays of light that have passed through the cornea. Between this pigment, which is the curtain or iris of the eye, and the end of the cornea, Duges found a space, («,) filled with an aqueous humour. Be- hind the iris of each cornea is a little cone- shaped transparent body, (_/',) with its apex directed backwards in the axis of the eye. It is filled with a perfectly transparent tenaceous fluid, the vitreous humour of the eye,into which the rays of light received through the cornea and iris are admitted, to fall upon the retina, or termination of the nerve, (g,) at the apex of the cone. The length of the cone differs greatly in different insects. It is shortest in the Dip- tera, and scarcely exceeds its breadth. In the Coleoptera and Lepidoptera it is five or six times longer than it is broad, and perhaps even exceeds this in some of the Libellulina. The apex of each cone is received upon the extremity of one of the many thousand of fibres (g) which we described as radiating from the bulb of the nerve, immediately after it has passed through the optic foramen. The choroid of dark pigment that forms the iris (A) is conti- nued backwards over the surface of the cone and optic fibre to the bulb of the optic nerve, thus completely insulating every individual cone and fibre from those by which they are surrounded. It is in the spaces thus occupied by the choroid that the tracheal vessels and cir- culatory passages ramify, so that the choroid in the eyes of insects, as in those of the verte- brata, is the proper vascular structure of the organ. It is subject to much variety of colour in different insects, being in some nearly black, in others dark blue, violet, green, purple, brown, or yellow. In some there are two or three layers of pigment of different colours. The usual arrangement of these is first a dark coloured portion near the bulb of the optic nerve, then a lighter colour, and lastly, again, a darker near the cornea?. According to Duges, the base of the cone is rounded where it is co- vered by the iris, but Muller states that this is the case only when the cornea is devoid of facets or corneules, and is perfectly smooth. According to the same authority, the pupillary aperture is most distinct when the cones are short, as in Diptera. This aperture was disco- vered by Muller, and also the nature of the cones, which had been thought by Straus- Durckheim to be expanded terminations of the optic fibres. We have seen the iris and pu- pillary aperture very distinctly in the eye of Pontia brassicce, the white cabbage butterfly, and also in Sphinx ligustri and Nepa grandis. In the two latter instances it is of a dark brown, or nearly black, and is particularly large in Nepa. In Pontia it is yellow, in the centre of which the pupil exhibits a glassy brightness. The manner in which the extremity of the ner- vous fibre is connected with the apex of the cone has recently been investigated by Professor