HEART. 579 enter the right, and the four pulmonary veins pass into the left auricle. The apex of the heart is in general formed by the left ventricle alone. The base of the ventricles is cut ob- liquely from before backwards and from above downwards, and this explains how the anterior surface of the ventricles should be longer than the posterior. I have found the difference of length between the two surfaces in a consi- derable number of uninjected hearts to vary from half an inch, or rather less, to an inch. There is little difference between the length of the two ventricles in the uninjected heart. In the injected heart the anterior wall not only becomes elongated but much more convex, while the posterior wall is simply elongated, so that the diffeience in length between the anterior and posterior surfaces becomes in- creased. This change is more marked in the right ventricle than in the left. Cruveilhier slates that he found the anterior surface of the left ventricle to exceed the posterior by nine or ten lines, and the anterior surface of the right to exceed the posterior by fifteen lines. These measurements have evidently been taken from injected hearts. On the surface of the heart, but more particularly upon the anterior surface of the right ventricle, a white spot, varying in size, is frequently observed. According to Baillie it is placed on the free or inner surface of the external serous membrane.* These spots are so common an appearance that it is some- what difficult to believe that they are morbid. It is, however, very probable that they are the result of some inflammatory action. ■Except in very emaciated subjects there is a greater or less quantity of fat occupying the auricular and ventricular grooves. This fat is generally in greater abundance in old subjects than in young, in accordance with the general law, that the adipose tissue in young persons is principally collected on the surface, and in old persons around the internal organs. When in greater quantity, it is deposited along the ramifications of the coronary vessels, and may, in cases of great obesity, almost completely envelope the surface of the heart. It is gene- rally placed in greater quantities on the right side than on the left. The human heart may be considered as con- sisting of two distinct hearts separated from each other by a fleshy septum, and which in the adult have in general no communication. The position of the fleshy septum separating the ventricles is marked by the ventricular grooves. Each heart consists of an auricle and ventricle which communicate by a large orifice. The right heart is occasionally termed the pul- monic heart, from its circulating the blood through the lungs; and as it circulates the dark blood it was termed the Caur a sang noir by Bichat. The left is occasionally called sys- temic heart, as it circulates the blood through * In three hearts in which I carefully examined these white patches, I could distinctly trace the serous membrane over them. See the observations of M. Bizot (Memoires de la Societe Medicale d'Observation de Paris, torn. i. p. 347, 1836,) on these spots. the body generally, and is the caur d saiig rouge of Bichat. The auricles, from their immediate connexion with the large veins of the heart, sometimes receive the name of venous portion of the heart (pars cordis venosa); and in the same manner the term arterial portion of the heart (purs cordis arteriosa) has been applied to the ventricles from dieir connexion with the large arteries. In describing the different ca- vities of the heart we shall take them in the order in which the blood passes through them. Right auricle (auricula dextra vel inferior, atrium venarum cavarum). External surface. —To see the external form of the auricles pro- perly it is necessary that they be first filled with injection. The right auricle is of an irre- gular figure, having some resemblance to a cube, and occupies the anterior, right, and in- ferior part of the base of the heart. It receives all the systemic venous blood of the body. Its inferior portion rests upon the diaphragm. Its largest diameter runs in a direction from behind forward, and from right to left. It is broadest posteriorly, becoming narrow and pro- longed anteriorly, where it terminates in a small and free appendix, which, from its re- semblance to the external ear of the dog, has been termed auricle. This appendix is gene- rally serrated on the edges, more particularly on the external, and projects between the aorta and the upper and anterior margin of the right ventricle. To this smaller portion the term proper auricle has been given, while the larger portion has been called sinus vcnosus. This division of the auricle into proper auricle and sinus venosus is more distinct in the left than in the right auricle. The posterior surface of the right auricle is connected with the entrance of the two cava?; its inferior with the base of the right ventricle; its internal with the left auricle; its outer surface is free; and anteriorly it is prolonged into the proper auricle. The junction of its internal surface with the cor- responding surface of the opposite auricle is marked by an indistinct groove, which cor- responds to the attachment of the septum sepa- rating the two auricles. Its external surface is placed on a plane internal to the outer edge of the ri;j;ht ventricle. Internal surface.—The innpr surface of the right auricle can be satisfactoiily examined only when it is opened in situ. Its interior can be best exposed by making a longitudinal incision from the appendix to the orifice of the inferior cava, then opening the superior cava along its anterior surface and connecting the two inci- sions. The inner aspect of the right auricle presents four surfaces:—1. a posterior, where the two venje cavee enter; 2. an outer, upon which numerous muscular bands are seen standing in relief; 3. an internal, which is nearly smooth, forms the septum between the two auricles, and presents an oval depression, about the size of the point of the finger, called the fossa ovalis ; 4. an anterior, formed by the appendix, and which also presents numerous muscular bundles. The superior or descend- ing vena cava enters at the upper and posterior angle, the inferior or ascending cava at the 2 Q 2