1000 INSECTIVORA. and the circumference exceedingly thick and somewhat raised. To different portions of this circumference of the muscular covering are attached several accessory muscles. Anteriorly there are two pairs; one arising from the me- dian line and inserted into the nasal bone; the other, more external, apparently confounded at its origin with the external orbicular fibres, is inserted into the side of the nose and incisive bones. Posteriorly a pair of broad muscles, of a pyramidal form, arise from the posterior part of the fleshy circumference, and are in* serted into the side of the tail towards the ex- tremity. On the ventral aspect there are also several portions of muscle, belonging to the same ap- paratus. There is one beneath the throat, aris- ing from the anterior part of the thorax, under the skin, and is inserted about the lateral parts of the head near the ears. Another arises from the median line of the sternum, and passes obliquely forwards over the shoulders, in front of them, to join the margin of the great or- bicular muscle before described. There is another ventral portion which has a very ex- tended connexion. It is attached around the anus, to the lateral parts of the tail and neigh- bouring parts, extends over the whole surface of the abdomen, and then divides into two portions; one internal, and larger than the other, passes under the axilla, and is inserted into the superior and interior part of the humerus; the other, external, passes laterally upwards, to be inserted into the margin of the great or- bicular muscle near the neck. The muscles hitherto described lie superficially; but there are others which are seated underneath the great muscle of the back. One arises from the side of the head, being attached to the meatus auditorius on each side, and loses itself in the anterior point of the orbicular muscle. There is also a thin layer of fibres lying beneath the great muscle, of which the anterior are attached to the superior interior portion of the humerus, and the posterior to the third ventral muscle already mentioned. We have here a very extensive and a very powerful apparatus, and it now becomes ne- cessary to consider its application. When the hedgehog is rolled up in a ball, it is com- pletely enveloped, as regards all the upper and lateral parts of the body, in the great orbicular muscle. When once brought into this position the simple contraction of the thick circum- ference of the muscle, which forms a true sphincter, is sufficient to retain it. If the ani- mal unrolls itself, the disc of the great muscle contracts whilst the circumference is relaxed, allowing the exit of the feet and the uncover- ing of the belly and sides: then the whole muscle contracts together, and lies in a mass on the back. By this universal contraction, the necessary muscles become stretched, and in a condition to perform their several offices; by the contraction of the anterior ones the head, and by that of the posterior the tail, is raised, whilst those which lie beneath raise the head and neck together, and the animal is now ready for progression. On the other hand, on the apprehension of danger, or when' reposing, it rolls itself into a ball by the following pro- cess. The orbicular muscle relaxes, and the muscles extending from it to the head and to the tail extend it in those directions, whilst the deap-seated transverse muscles which are at- tached to the external lateral portions, and lie on the belly, bring this part of the circum- ference downwards. At the same time the head is brought downwards towards the breast by the ordinary flexion of the head, and by the cutaneous muscles of the neck already de- scribed; the tail and the hinder legs are brought forwards under the belly, and the flexors of the limbs contract. The great orbicular muscle passes downwards over the sides, then contracts at the circumference, and forms a sort of sac or purse, enveloping the whole body and limbs. III. Digestive organs.—It is, of course, in the structure of the digestive organs, and par- ticularly in that of the teeth, that we find the distinguishing characters of the whole order; yet so nearly do these organs in the Insecti- vora approximate to those in the insectivorous division of the Cheiroptera, that it would not have been possible to separate the two groups, had there been no other important points of distinction. From the insectivorous Quadru- mana they are distinguished by the planti- grade character of the posterior extremities; from the bats by the whole structure of the limbs, and from all the true Carnivora by the tuberculated teeth. There is no inconsiderable difficulty in as- signing the various anterior teeth in the Insec- tivora to their proper classes. In most of the genera, according to the statement of both the Cuviers and others, there are no canine teeth, and the false molares are very numerous; but it is in many cases doubtful whether the an- terior false molares, as they are termed by these anatomists, be not theoretically canines modified in their form. On this point, how- ever, there is no possibility of coming to a satisfactory conclusion, as every one will at last form his own opinion on each case; I shall therefore follow the arrangement of Frederic Cuvier as the most generally known, and, upon the whole, by far the best authority on the teeth of the Mammifera. The incisive teeth vary greatly in the dif- ferent genera. In Mi/gale, in Scalops, and in Condytura, there is in the upper jaw but a single incisor on each side, which is very strong and of a triangular form. In the first of these genera it is somewhat curved downwards and backwards, and slightly resembles that of some Rodentia. In Sorex (JigA49) it is also single, very strong, curved, and similar to the canine tooth in the Carnivora, but furnished with a strong tooth-like process posteriorly, appearing almost like a distinct tooth. In Talpa (jig. 441) there are three superior incisores on each side, which are small with cutting edges, like those of the Carnivora. In Chrysockloris (fig. 450), the single superior incisor is curved, convergent, obliquely trun- cate and pointed; and in Erinaceus (fig.451) there are three pairs, of which the first is large,