656 ANIMAL HEAT. on the magnetic needle, causes it to deviate by a certain number of degrees, which conse- quently become indices of the temperature of the point of the needle, and therefore of the medium in which it is placed. The multiplier ought to be so sensitive as to show a deviation of one degree of the magnetic needle for each one-tenth of a degree of temperature as mea- sured by the centigrade scale, an amount of temperature made sensible by the union of the two ends of the wire which forms its circuit with an iron wire soldered by its ends. So much for the general principle upon which and by which the inquiries of Messrs. Becquerel and Breschet were conducted. As to all the precautions necessary to render re- searches of the kind fruitful, as these are nume- rous, we beg to refer for an account of them to the memoir of the authors themselves. Difference of temperature according to the depth.—By the means contrived by Becquerel and Breschet the temperature of the calf of the leg at the depth of four centimetres from the surface was found to be 36°,75 (about 98° F.), and at one centimetre 34°,50 (about 94° F.), a difference of 2°,25 (4° F.). In the chest the temperature at the depth of the pectoralis major, compared with that of the superficial cellular tissue at the depth of one centimetre, showed a corresponding difference; the deeper parts were 2°,25 (about 4° F.) higher than the more superficial. In seven experiments made on the arm the mean difference of temperature between the deeper strata of the biceps and the superficial cellular tissue over the same muscle amounted to 1°,59 c. in favour of the deeper parts. The next point of inquiry was to know whether it was enough to penetrate to the depth of three or four centimetres into the trunk and limbs to attain the points of highest temperature in these parts. With this view we have compared the observations made by the authors mention- ed, in the same individual, with regard to the temperature of the mouth and of the biceps muscle, and we find that the mean temperature of the mouth was 36°,89, that of the biceps 36°,88, (about 98° F.),—a result which may be called identical with the former. The mean of seven other experiments, however, shows the relation of 36°,89 c. for the mouth, of 36°,75 c. for the biceps; the difference here is evidently in favour of the mouth. It were to be wished that inquiries in this direction were multiplied in order that absolute certainty may yet be attained. In the preceding experiments, in penetrating to different depths, the nature of the tissues at- tained also differs, a circumstance which must tend to complicate the results; for it is possi- ble that the nature of the tissue may have some influence on the evolution of heat. This is even an inference which we should deduce from the principles already established, were it merely in consideration of the different quanti- ties of blood they contain. And this conclu- sion is even confirmed by the experiments of the parties mentioned ; for on compressing the humeral artery strongly, the motion of the nee- dle immediately announced a fall of tempera- ture to the extent of several tenths of a degree. This experiment is interesting from the rapidity and precision of the effect. There are other cases well known by which we are led to a corresponding conclusion ; but nowhere else is the fact seen in so simple a guise, or in so ma- nifest a relation of cause and effect. In opera- tions for aneurism, indeed, and other cases re- quiring the ligature of a large artery, the tem- perature of the parts supplied by the vessel tied falls so low as to require to be supported by artificial warmth ; but then a severe and bloody operation has been performed by which the conditions are complicated. In the expe- riment mentioned, on the contrary, nothing occurs to disturb the state of the economy ; the effect instantly follows the cause, and its amount is even at the same moment ascer- tained. Seeing, then, that in the same tissue the freer or more interrupted access of arterial blood causes the temperature to vary, it is fair to infer that the relative freedom of access or quantity of this fluid vvhicli circulates through other tissues should have an influence upon their temperature ; in other words, that tissues differ in their power of producing heat according to the quantity of blood which circulates through them. We can scarcely doubt, therefore, but that the differences of temperature observed be- tween the deeper and more superficial parts are complicated by the mere fact of difference of distance from the surface, and also by the cir- cumstance of difference of tissue. The super- ficial layer in the preceding experiments was cellular membrane ; the deeper layer was mus- cular. But the muscles receive a much larger quantity of blood than the cellular membrane, and their temperature, from this circumstance alone, ought to be higher.* * [Messrs. Becquerel and Breschet, in a memoir lately read before the Royal Academy of Sciences, (Ann. des Sciences Nat. Mai 1838,) entitled, " Further Observations on the Temperature of the Tissues of the body of Man and the lower Animals, as ascertained by means of thermo-electric effects," have made a few additional observations which de- serve quotation in this place. The temperature of the mouth being used as the standard of compari- son, the temperature of the biceps muscle was found to be but 36°, 20 c, instead of 3b'°, 60, which was the term derived from previous experi- ments, and to fall short of the temperature of the mouth by as many as 4° c. (above 7° F.) In making experiments upon the influence of the temperature of surrounding media upon that of the tissues, Messrs. Becquerel and Breschet intro- duced the needles of their thermo-electrical appara- tus into the biceps muscles of two young and healthy individuals, the air at the time marking 16° c. (61°F.). The magnetic needle did not deviate in the least; so that the two muscles possessed precisely the same temperature. One of the arms was now immersed for a quarter of an hour in water of the temperature successively of 10°, 8°, 6°, and 0°- c. (50°, 47°, 43°, and 32° F.). The deviation of the needle did not amount to more than two degrees of its scale in favour of the muscle of the arm which was not plunged into the water. The partial cold hath, consequently, had only caused a depression of temperature to the extent of about one-fifth of a degree c. The arm being now plunged into water