164 EXTREMITY. tious foramen, the canal following the same direction as that of the ulna, namely upwards. The muscles attached to the anterior surface of the radius are the flexor pollicis proprius, con- nected with the two superior thirds of the bone, and the pronator quadratus occupying the in- ferior third. The posterior surface of the radius is likewise inclined, and looks backwards and inwards, very narrow in its whole extent, but broadest at its inferior extremity, convex in its superior and inferior thirds, and slightly con- cave from above downwards in its middle third. This last portion of the bone affords attachment to the two inferior extensor muscles of the thumb ; the superior third is embraced by the supinator brevis, and the inferior third has applied to it the tendon of the common extensor of the fingers, the indicator, and the extensor tertii internodii pollicis. The external surface is convex in its whole extent, and like the others expands inferiorly; about its middle we observe a rough surface, which gives insertion to the pronator quadratus; in its upper portion the surface is embraced by the supinator brevis, and inferiorly the radial extensors of the wrist are applied to it. Of the three edges which separate these sur- faces, the internal is sharp, and extends from about an inch below the bicipital tuberosity to about the same distance above the carpal extre- mity of the radius; at this latter point the edge seems to bifurcate and form a plane triangular surface above the inferior extremity of the ra- dius. This edge gives attachment in its entire extent to the interosseous ligament. The an- terior edge is rounded ; it distinctly originates from the bicipital tuberosity, and terminates at the outer side of the carpal extremity of the radius in front of the styloid process. The su- pinator brevis, the proper flexor of the thumb, and the flexor sublimis of the fingers, have attachments to this edge above, and below the pronator quadratus and supinator longus are inserted into it. The posterior edge is very imperfectly defined, being distinct only in its middle. The inferior or carpal extremity of the radius is the largest part of the bone ; it is irregularly quadrilateral in form. Its inferior surface forms an articular excavation, the outline of which is triangular, the apex being external and the base internal; this surface is divided into two by a slightly prominent line which passes from before backwards; the outer of these two portions retains the triangular form, and is articulated with the scaphoid bone of the carpus; the internal is quadrilateral, and articulated with the lunar bone. At its inner margin, this surface is continuous with a slightly excavated articular facet on the ulnar side of the inferior extremity of the bone, which is articulated with the convex surface on the cor- responding part of the ulna. The inferior ex- tremity of the radius presents, at its outer part, a pyramidal process projecting downwards and slightly outwards; this is the styloid process, which by its apex gives attachment to the ex- ternal lateral ligament of the wrist-joint. The anterior margin of the inferior extremity is slightly concave from side to side ; it gives at- tachment to the anterior ligament of the wrist- joint, and the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers pass over it into the palm of the hand. On the posterior margin of this extremity we observe two grooves: the internal one, wide and very superficial, lodges the tendons of the com- mon extensor of the fingers and the indicator ; the external, deeper and oblique, lodges the extensor tertii internodii pollicis. Externally we notice likewise two superficial grooves, of which the posterior lodges the radial extensors of the wrist, and the anterior is traversed by the extensores primi et secundi internodii pollicis. Structure—The central canal extends up- wards into the neck of the bone; it is cylin- drical at the extremities, and prismatic in the centre. Both extremities are composed of can- cellated structure. Developement of the bones of the fore-arm.— Both bones appear about the same time, and if not synchronously with the humerus, at least a very little later. With both bones the ossifi- cation begins on the shafts, which are very early completed; the ossific point of the shaft of the radius is said, by Beclard and Cruveil- hier, to begin some days before that of the ulna. In the radius the inferior extremity begins to ossify before the superior, about the end of the second year. The ossification of the superior extremity begins between the seventh and ninth year; it is united to the shaft about the twelfth year, whilst the inferior extremity, whose ossification begins earlier, is not united till the eighteenth or twentieth year. The progress of the ossification of the ulna is very similar. The inferior extremity developed by a single point of ossification begins first, about the sixth year. A little later the olecra- non begins to ossify; the coronoid is formed by an extension of ossification from the shaft. The union of the superior extremity of the ulna with the shaft takes place about the fifteenth or sixteenth year ; that of the inferior about the eighteenth or twentieth. It is important to observe that the articula- tion of the radius with the ulna, in the manner in which it is effected in man, has reference to the motions of the hand. Pronation and supi- nation of the hand are effected by the rotation of the head of the radius within the coronary ligament and on the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. The hand is so connected with the radius that it follows the motions of that bone; when, therefore, the radius rotates in such a direction that its inferior part crosses the ulna, the posterior edge is directed outwards, and its anterior surface inwards and backwards; the palm of the hand is turned backwards and the dorsum forwards; the forearm and hand are then said to be in pronation. On the contrary, when the rotation is such that the ulna and ra- dius are placed on the same plane, the dorsum of the hand is directed backwards and the palm forwards ; this is supination. In the lower animals we never find this mode of articulation of the radius with the ulna, unless there be also present the motions of su- pination and pronation of the hand. In such