11 DIGESTION. this anatomists have long been well aware, and it has accordingly been made the object of par- ticular attention, and has even received the ap- pellation of the accessory stomach; but we shall enter more particularly into the consideration of this subject when we come to treat upon the difference between chyme and chyle, and the nature of the process by which it is effected. The peculiarities of the digestive organs in the different classes of animals are interesting, not merely as affording remarkable examples of the adaptation of the animal to the situation in which it is placed, but are especially worthy of our notice on this occasion, as serving to illus- trate the nature of the operation generally, and the mode in which its various stages are related to each other. The most remarkable examples of this kind are the complicated stomachs of the ruminant quadrupeds, and the muscular sto- machs of certain classes of birds.* The ruminant animals belong to the class of the mammalia, and are such as feed principally upon the stalks and leaves of plants. The quan- tity of food which they take is very consider- able ; it is swallowed, in the first instance, al- most without mastication, and is received into the first stomach, a large cavity, which is termed the venter magnus, pause, or paunch.\ The food, after remaining for some time in this sto- mach, for the purpose, as it would appear, of being macerated, is next conveyed into the second stomach, a smaller cavity, the internal coat of which is drawn up into folds that lie in both directions, so as to form a number of an- gular cells, from which circumstance it has received the appellation of reticulum, bonnet, or honeycomb. The reticulum is provided with a number of strong muscular fibres, by which the food is rounded into the form of a ball, and is propelled along the oesophagus into the mouth. It is now completely masticated, after having been properly prepared for the pro- cess by its previous maceration in the paunch ; this mastication constitutes what has been termed chewing the cud, or rumination. When the food has been sufficiently com- minuted it is again swallowed, but by a pecu- liar mechanism of muscular contraction the passage into the venter magnus is closed, while an opening is left for it to pass into the third stomach, termed omasum, feui I let, or muniplies ; it is smaller than any of the other cavities, and its internal coat is formed into a series of strong ridges and furrows, but without the transverse ridges of the reticulum. From the omasum the food is finally deposited in the fourth stomach, the abomasum, caillette, or reed, a cavity consi- derably larger than either the second or third stomach, although less than the first. It is of an irregular conical form, the base being turned * For an interesting account of the comparative anatomy of the digestive organs we may refer to Carus's Comparative Anatomy, by Gore, v. ii. p. 72 et seq. t We have selected the terms by which each of the four stomachs is usually designated in Latin, French, and English respectively; there are, how- ever, various other names which have been applied to them. to the omasum ; it is lined with a thick mucous or villous coat, which is contracted into ridges or furrows, somewhat in the manner of the oma- sum, and it appears to be that part of the diges- tive apparatus which is analogous to the single stomach of the other mammalia, where the ali- ment undergoes the process of chymification, the three first stomachs being intended to macerate and grind it down, in order to prepare it for the action of the gastric juice. (See Ruminantia.) Although we conceive that the operation of the different parts of this complicated apparatus is pretty well understood, it still remains for us to inquire into the final cause of the arrange- ment, or why the maceration and mastication of the food in certain classes of animals should be effected in a manner so different from what it is in others, which, in their general structure and functions, the most nearly resemble them. The opinion which was entertained on this subject by the older anatomists, and which may be still regarded as the popular doctrine, is, that the nature of the food of these animals, and the large quantity of it necessary for their support, requires a greater length of time for its comminution and a greater quantity of the mucous secretions than it could obtain by the ordinary process. But although there may be some foundation for this opinion, the more extended observations of modern naturalists show, that it does not apply in all cases, and that there are so many excep- tions to the general rule as to lead us to doubt the truth of the position.* It is to be ob- served, that when animals with ruminant sto- machs take in liquids, the fluid passes immedi- ately into the second stomach,f where it is mixed with the aliment after it has been macerated in the venter magnus, and probably moulds it into the proper form, for its return along the oesophagus into the mouth. While the young animal is nourished by the mother's milk, the fluid is conveyed, in the first instance, through the third stomach into the fourth, and it is not until it begins to take solid food, that the process of rumination is established. It is hence concluded, that the animal possesses the power of conveying the food at pleasure either into the first or the third stomach, and of return- ing it from the second into the mouth ;| these, like many other voluntary acts, being of the kind which are termed instinctive. The other kind of stomach which we referred to above as possessing a peculiar structure, and acting on a different principle from that of the human species, is the muscular stomach of certain classes of birds. Birds are not pro~ vided with teeth, or with any apparatus which can directly serve for the process of mastica- tion; yet many of them feed upon hard sub- stances, which cannot be acted upon by the gastric juice, until they have undergone some process, by which they may be comminuted or ground down into a pulpy mass. This is effected by the ingluvies, the craw or crop, and the ventricuius bnlbosus or gizzard. The first * Blumenbach's Comp. Anat. p. 138. note 20. t Home, ubi supra, p. 363. \ Blumcnbach, uhi supra, p. 138. note 18; Ray's Wisdom of God, &c, p. 188.