HERMAPHRODITISM. 709 small size, and, near the diminutive penis, some traces of a prostate gland. c. The observation of M. Petit,* of Namur, is still more complete. On the body of a sol- dier, aged twenty-two, who died of his wounds, and whose external organs appear to have presented no deviation from the male type except in the absence of the testicles from the scrotum, these bodies, with male vasa defe- rentia, vesiculae seminales, and a prostate, were found to co-exist with female Fallopian tubes, and an uterus that was attached to the neck of the urinary bladder, and opened into the urethra between this neck and the prostate. The form of this imperfect uterus, M. Petit remarks, merited for it rather the name of a vagina than of an uterus, and it resembled more this organ in the female quadruped than in women. From the body of the uterus, at three inches from its entrance into the urethra, two Fallopian tubes arose. These tubes were perforated, and were three inches and a half long; their abdominal extremities were not loose and provided with fimbriae, but were at- tached to a small soft body on each side, occupying nearly the natural situation of the ovaries, but having the substance or structure of the testicles, and provided with an epidi- dymis and vas deferens. The vasa deferentia were each seven inches and a half long, and were attached to two long and rather slender vesiculoe seminales placed alongside of the uterus. The vesiculae opened into the urethra by two ducts. In a note appended to this case, M. Petit states that he had been consulted by a man who rendered blood by the penis regularly every month, without pain or any troublesome symptom. Perhaps, adds M. Petit, this man had also a concealed uterus. We have been informed, on credible authority, of two similar cases, the one in a young unmarried man of seventeen years of age, and the other in a per- son who had been married for several years without his wife having had any children. In both of these cases the discharge was in very considerable quantity, and perfectly regular in its monthly occurrence. Did it consist in a periodical haemorrhage from the urinary blad- der or passages only ? or was it, as M. Petit seems to suppose in his instance, of a true menstrual character, and produced by the re- productive organs of the female existing inter- nally, and communicating with the bladder or urethra ? d. Professor Ackermann,f of Jena, pub- lished in 1805 the following interesting case of the present variety of hermaphroditic malfor- mation. It occurred in an infant that lived about six weeks after birth. On dissection, two testicles were found; one of them had descended into the scrotum or labium; the other had advanced no further than the groin. Both were perfectly formed, and had their usual appendages complete. In the natural situa- * Hist, de 1'Acad. Roy. des Sc. for 1720, p. 38. t Infantis androgyni historia et iconographia, Edinb. Med. and Surg, .lonrn. vol. iii. p. 202. tion of the female uterus, there was found a hollow pyriform organ, which, from its locality and connections, was supposed to be an ute- rus, though its coats were finer and thinner, and its cavity greater than naturally belongs to that viscus. Duplicatures of peritonaeum, re- sembling the ligamenta lata, connected this im- perfect uterus with the sides of the pelvis, and its cavity opened into a kind of short vagina, which soon united with the urethra, and formed one common canal with it (vagina urethralis). The vasa deferentia ran from the testicles towards the superior angles of the uterus, and penetrated into its substance at the points where the Fallopian tubes are usually placed. Without opening here, however, they passed onwards under the internal mucous-like mem- brane of the uterus and vagina, and at length terminated, by very small orifices, in the va- gina urethralis. Immediately previous to en- tering the ligamenta lata, each vas deferens formed a number of convolutions, conglome- rated into a mass resembling a vesicula semi- nalis. e. Steghlener* has described at great length the case of an infant that survived only for half an hour after birth, and upon whose body he found perfect external male organs (Jig. 301, a b), and internally two small elon- gated testicles (c c), with their epididymes (g g), the convolutions of their vasa deferentia (6 b) Fig. 301. * De Htrmaphr. Nat. p. 104.