GASTEROPODA. 381 tions of Reaumur that we are indebted for our knowledge concerning this interesting process, and subsequent writers have added little to the information derived from his researches; in order, however, to lay before the reader the principal facts connected with this subject, we shall commence with the simplest forms of the process, and gradually advance towards such as are more complicated and less easily under- stood. The shells of the Gasteropoda are of two kinds, some being entirely concealed within the substance of the mantle, and consequently internal, whilst others are placed upon the sur- face of the body external to the soft integument. In the former case the shell is uniform in tex- ture and colourless ; in the latter, its develope- ment is much more elaborate, and it is not un- frequently moulded into a great diversity of forms, and painted with various tints, which are sometimes of great brilliancy. The internal or dermic shells are found in many of the pulmo- nary and tectibranchiate orders, and possess but little solidity; although inclosed in the substance of the mantle, they are so little adhe- rent, that when exposed by an incision they readily fall out of the cavity in which they are lodged, and from which they are apparently quite detached. Their substance is generally calcareous, but in many instances, as in Aplysia, the shell is of a horny texture, being transpa- rent, flexible, and elastic, as is the gladius of many of the Cephalopod Mollusca. In all cases horny or calcareous plates of this descrip- tion are found to be composed of superposed lamella, which are successively secreted by the floor of the cavity in which they are contained, the inferior layer being always the largest and most recent. These shells, therefore, may be con- sidered as merely formed by the deposition of successive coats of varnish, which become indu- rated, and the simple manner of their growth will best exemplify the mode in which more compli- cated shells, whatever be their form, are con- structed. External shells present an endless di- versity of figure, and some classification of their principal forms will facilitate our contemplation of the peculiarity observable in each. The con- cealed shells, which are merely the rudiments of what we are now considering, are so small in com- parison with the size of the body, that they can only be looked upon as serving for the protec- tion of the more important organs, namely, the heartand respiratory apparatus, which are placed beneath them, but the external shells, from their great developement, are not merely a partial protection to the animal, but in most cases constitute an abode into which the creature can retract its whole body. The external shell consists generally of one piece, the form of which may be symmetrical, in which case it is a cone or disc simply covering the back of the animal; or, as is generally the case, the shell may be more or less twisted around a central axis, forming a convoluted, turbinated, or spiri- valve shell. In one genus only, Chiton, Lin., the shell is formed of several pieces articulated with each other, and covering the surface of the back. The shell of the Patella, a section of which is represented in jig. 178, is a simple conep'aeed upon the back of the creature, which it com- pletely covers, and upon which it is evidently moulded. On making a section of the animal, as in the figure, the shell is found to be entirely lined by the mantle a, b, by which it is secreted. Fig. 178. That the whole surface of the mantle is capable of secreting the calcifying fluid from which the shell is formed, is distinctly proved by the manner in which a fracture or perforation in any part is speedily repaired by the deposition of a patch of calcareous matter beneath it, but in the ordinary growth of the animal the differ- ent portions of the mantle execute different functions. It is obvious that the enlargement of the body of the patella, as its age increases, must necessitate a corresponding enlargement of its habitation, and this is principally effected by additions of calcareous matter in succes- sively larger rings around the mouth of the shell only ; the great agent therefore in forming the shell is the margin of the mantle, b, b. This hangs loosely as a fringe near the mouth of the shell, and being moveable at the will of the animal, the calcareous matter which it pre- eminently furnishes may be laid on in succes- sive layers to extend the mouth of its abode ; and these consecutive additions are indicated externally by concentric lines running parallel with the circumference of the shell, the num- ber of which necessarily increases with age. Whilst the abode of the creature is thus en- larged by the deposition of shell from the vas- cular and spongy margins of the mantle, the office of the rest of that membrane is reduced to the increase of its thickness, depositing succes- sive coatings of calcareous particles, which are laid on to its inner surface, and when a section of the shell is made (fj, these last-formed strata are readily distinguishable by their whiteness and different arrangement. So far the produc- tion of an external shell is entirely similar to what we have met with in the formation of the internal defences of the naked Gasteropoda, yet in other respects the former are much more ela- borately organised. In the first place many of them are adorned externally with colours, not unfrequently arranged with great regularity and beauty ; these tints belong exclusively to the outer layers of the shell, that is, to those formed by the margins of the mantle, and are produced by a glandular structure appropriated to the secretion of the colouring matter, which only exists in the vascular circumference of the cab.