923 INSECTA. into a little inflated eminence, which we regard as simply an extended portion of the pnescu- tuin unto which the parapteron is attached (3 e). The scutum (3 b) forms a broad convex plate, marked in the middle line by a raphe. It extends from immediately behind the narrow ring of the pronotum on each side to the in- sertion of the anterior pair of wings, and from thence backwards to a point opposite to the margin of the posterior pair, thus forming the greater portion of the proper thorax of the insect. It gives attachment on its internal surface to some of the most powerful muscles of the wings, and consequently requires to be more developed than any other part of the thorax. It is separated by a deep triangular suture from the scutellum of the mesothorax (3 c), which as in Hymenopteia is a large and important part. It forms the lozenge-shaped posterior part of the mesothorax, and if care- fully examined its angles are seen to pass under the sides of the scutum, by the enlargement of which it has been carried backwards. The post-scutellum (3 d) has almost disappeared ; a portion only of it is seen on each side at the base of the anterior pair of wings, bounded by an elevated margin, which extends outwards to join a frcenum that is connected with the posterior margin of the anterior pair of wings. Besides these parts, which form the mesonotum, there are also two broad moveable plates, the paruptera (3 e), that cover the base of the anterior pair of wings. They are called by Kirby and Spence putagia, or tippets, and are loosely attached by a part of their concave sur- face to the little eminences which we have before noticed at the sides of the praescutum. They are broad arched plates, which in form resemble scapulae, and extend from the anterior part of the scutum, the sides of which they entirely cover as well as the insertion of the first pair of wings. They are always covered with long hairs, and are more developed in Lepidoptera than in any other order. In Coleoptera we saw them placed beneath the wings on the anterior part of the sides of the mesothorax. They were then unimportant organs; in Hymenoptera they were removed to a position above the wing, but in this order they have arrived at their maximum of development, and appear to be of great importance to the insect. The meso-sternum in Lepidoptera is a part of very difficult examination, and we are not confident that we have rightly made out the analogies of its different parts with those in other insects. The meso-sternnm is greatly reduced in size, while the base of each leg is considerably enlarged. It appears to be formed by an union of the trocliantinus (fig. 392, 3 k), and of the coxa (I), these parts in each limb appearing to be united, and distinguished laterally by a very marked suture. The base of the limbs thus occupies the greater part of the meso-sternal region. The part which we thus regard as the trochantinus is articulated in front with the sternum (3 g), and the coxa with the epimeron (3 A). The sternum extends upwards on each side of the segment Fig. 392. I Lateral surface of Sphinx ligustri. as far as the upper portion of the epimeron, a little below the insertion of the wings. It is marked transversely by a depression which has the appearance of a suture. At its anterior margin, on the front of the meso-sternum there is a very distinct plate which is united to it by suture, and which appears to be the proper episternal piece (3/'). The spiracle or meso- thoracic stigma is situated in a little fossa im- mediately beneath the patagia on each side before the anterior pair of wings, and com- municates with the tracheae between the pro- and meso-thoracic segments. The metatlwrax, which bears the posterior pair of wings, is con- siderably reduced in size by the developement backwards of the scutellum of the meso-tborax, which encroaches upon this segment poste- riorly, as the scutum anteriorly does upon the prothorax, but not to so great an extent. The prasscutum, as in the preceding segment, is concealed within the thorax, being developed inwards to assist with the post-scutellum of the preceding segment in forming the meso- phragma, while only a portion of the scutum is visible on each side of the scutellum of the meso-thorax (4 b), where it forms a triangular