806 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. cated with fracture through the trochanter major.—In the thirteenth volume of the Medico- Chirurgical Transactions, Mr. Stanley has re- marked that among the more complicated inju- ries to which the hip-joint is liable, that of fracture of the trochanter major, combined with fracture of the neck of the femur, has, under certain circumstances, a strong resemblance to dislocation of this bone. Whenever the frac- tured portions of the trochanter can be brought into contact, a crepitus will be perceived, which will enable the surgeon to ascertain the precise nature of the injury ; but when from the direc- tion of the fracture, one portion of the trochan- ter major has been drawn by the muscles to- wards the sciatic notch, no crepitus can then be discovered. A direct source of-mistake will then arise from the positive resemblance of the fractured portion of the trochanter to the head of the femur, the former occupying the place which the latter would do in dislocation, and if, with these circumstances, there should hap- pen to be inversion of the injured limb, the difficulty of diagnosis must be considerably in- creased. The writer has seen such cases as those alluded to by Mr. Stanley, and when he confined his observations to the consideration of the joint only, he felt all the difficulty alluded to in forming an opinion; but in these cases the limb can in general be brought down to its natural length by forcible extension, and it is possible, too, to flex the thigh on the abdomen, which we know to be impracticable in the case of luxation. In most of the cases which the writer has witnessed of the fracture traversing obliquely the superior extremity of the shaft of the femur, detaching the trochanters, the foot and whole of the injured extremity were everted, a position it were impossible for the limb to assume, were the globular-shaped head of the bone on the dorsum of the ilium, or placed to- wards the ischiatic notch, and indeed, in the cases which he has seen, with inversion of the limb, the inverted position was not permanent, as when the patient was raised out of bed, and assisted to stand for a few minutes on the sound extremity, the injured limb gradually assumed an inclination forwards and outwards; the inclination, though slight, was always to a degree which it were impossible to give to the limb if the head of the bone were placed on the sciatic notch. Finally, as to the remark- able symptom of inversion of the limb, com- bined with fracture, we have never seen this in- version so rigid as it is in the luxation; the in- version can be overcome, and we have mostly found that in the cases in which this symptom was noticed, there existed a comminuted frac- ture of the superior extremity of the shaft of the femur, and the limb, if left to itself, would be found sometimes to be everted, sometimes to be inverted, and generally to possess a re- markable degree of flexibility, yielding to any movements the surgeon wishes to communicate to it. Such has been the result of the writer's individual observations on these cases. D. Fractures of the neck of the thigh-hone, with impaction of the superior or cotyloid frag- ment into thecancel luted tissue of the upper extre- mity of the shaft of thefemur.—We have spoken of a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, in which the fracture runs transversely with respect to the direction of the axis of the neck of the bone, and also of oblique fractures of the cervix femoris (Dupuytren). In the former, i. e. the transverse fracture of the neck, the two opposite surfaces of the fragments are generally fairly confronted to each other, and each presents a granular broken surface; but instances have been met with in which there existed an inter- locking of these surfaces. A bony spicula or dentiform process, as it were, has been seen to proceed from the broken surface of the superior or cotyloid fragment, and to sink into an alveo- lar-like depression on the upper surface of the lower fragment; to use the words of Cruveil- hier : " L'engrenement des fragmens s'observe moins souvent, peut-etre dans la fracture intra- capsulaire que dans la fracture extra-capsulaire. Cependant je l'ai observee plusieurs fois; dans un cas de fracture intra-capsulaire du col, observe sur un adulte tres vigoreux, j'ai trouve un engrenement reciproque forme ainsi qu'il suite le fragment superieur et le fragment infe- rieur presentaient chacun une cavite, et une avance osseuse; la cavite de l'un recevait l'avance de l'autre et reciproquement, l'engrene- ment etait, qu'il y avait immobilite complete." In the species of fracture which we are now about to consider, the superior or cotyloid frag- ment is firmly impacted into the cancellated structure of the superior part of the shaft of the femur. In this case the limb is shortened somewhat, though not much, and consequently the case may be mistaken for the intra-capsular fracture. When, however, the surgeon endea- vours to bring the limb to its normal length, and to elicit crepitus, or by rotation of the femur he endeavours to ascertain whether the trochanter moves in a larger or smaller circle, he finds that he cannot elongate the shortened limb, nor elicit crepitus by rotation, nor can he learn anything satisfactory by the movement of the trochanter. In general the fracture is com- plete of the compact and reticular tissue of the neck of the bone, and the upper fragment is wedged into the lower, as is the fang of a tooth into its alveolus; but cases, we believe, have occurred, in which the fracture of the cervix femoris was incomplete, and had engaged merely the under stratum of the compact tissue of the neck of the bone. To comprehend well what occurs in the partial as well as in the im- pacted fracture, we should attend a little to the normal anatomy of the interior of the cervix femo- ris, and the disposition of the compact and reti- cular tissue, a subject the writer has elsewhere stated has been much overlooked, see Dublin Journal, vol. vi. p. 222, from which we quote the following words : " Let us make a vertical sec- tion through the neck of a healthy femur, in the direction of its long axis, and continue it down through the shaft of the dry bone, the section leaving one-half of the femur in front, and the other behind with the lesser trochanter, as has been done in the specimen of the healthy femur of a well-formed adult man, from which Jig. 318 has been taken. This simple view shews us, that the principal strength of the neck resides in an arch of compact tissue, which begins small