994 INSECTIVORA. spines being usually developed directly from a trachea or part of a membrane in the immediate vicinity of a trachea. Bibliography.—In addition to the foot-notes attached to the article the following are some of the principal works on Insects : De Animalibus Insectis libri septem, A uctore Vlysse Aldrovandee, fol. Bonon. 1602. Experimenta circa Generationem Insecto- rum, Francisco Redi, Florence, 1668. De Bombyce, M. Malpighi, 1687? Historia Insectorum, Londini, 1710. Methodus Insectorum, seu Insecta in Metho- dum aliqualem digesta, Johannes Ray. Systema Naturae, 1735-1770, Carolus von Linnceus. Memoires pour servir a l'Histoire des Insectes, par Charles De Geer, 7 torn. 4to. Stockholme, 1752. Traite d'ln- sectologie, par Charles Bonnet, 8vo. Paris, 1748. Biblia Natura;, fol. by J. Swammerdam, translated by Thomas Flloyd, with Notes by J. Hill, London, 1758. Entomologia Carniolica, exhibens Insecta Carniolia? indigene, &c. 8vo. Joannis Antonii Scopoli. Vindobona;, 1763. Memoires pour servir a l'Histoire des Insectes, 6 torn. 4to. par Rene Antoine Erchhault de Reaumur. Traite Anatom. de la Chenille, 4to. par Pierre Lyonet, 1760. Spicilegia Zoologica, &c. a Petr. Sim. Pallas, M.D. 4to. Berlin, 1767-1780. Systema Entomologia;, &c. 8vo. Jo. Christ. Fabricii, Flensburgi et Lipsiae, 1775. Nova; species Insec- torum Centuris 1. Auctore Joanne Rionoldo Fostero, 8vo. Londini, 1771. Historia Naturalis Curculio- num Suecize, Auctore Gabriel Bonsdorf, 4to. Up- Bali;e, 1785. Entomologia Parisiensis, edente.A. F. Fourcroy, M.D. 2 torn. 12mo. Parisiis, 1785. Ex- position of English Insects, arranged according to the Linnean System, 4to. London, by John Harris, 1782. Entomologia Helvetique ou Catalogue des Insectes de la Suisse, ranges d'apres une nouvelle Methode, avec Descriptions et Figures, Claiville, Zurich, 1798. Tableau elementaire de l'Histoire Naturelle des Animaux, par G. Cuvier, 1797. Natural History of British Insects, by E. Donovan, 16 vol. 8vo. London. 1792-1818. De antennis In- sectorum, 8vo. 1799, Lehmann. Vivarium Naturae, the Naturalist Miscellany, by G. Shaw. Lepidop- tera Britannia;, Auctore A. H. Haworth, 8vo. Lon- dini, 1803. Monographia apum Anglia:, by W. Kirhy, M.A. 2 vol. 8vo. Ipswich, 1802. Introduc- tion to Entomology, by William Kirby, M.A. and William Spence, vol. iv. 1816-1828. Historia Nat. des Animaux sans Vertebres, &c. par M. le Cheva- lier de Lamarck, 5 torn. 8vo. Paris. Extrait du Cours de Zoologie, &c. par M. de Lamarck, 1812, 8vo. Elements of Natural History, 2 vol. 8vo. Iiondon and Edinburgh, 1802, by Stewart. Histoire Naturelle des Crustaces et des Insectes, par P. A. Latreille. British Entomology, by John Curtis, F.L.S. Histoire abregee des Insectes, Paris, 1764, 2 torn. 4to. by Geoffroy. Illustrations of British Entomology, by James Francis Stephens, F.L.S. Horae Entomologia;, by W. J, Macleay. Entomologia Britannica, 1 vol. 8vo. 1802, by Tho- mas Marsham. Considerations Generates sur l'Ana- tomie comparee des Animaux Articules.par Hercules Straus Durckheim, 4to. Paris, 1828. Modern Clas- sification of Insects, by J. 0. Westwood, F.L.S. (G. Newport.) INSECTIVORA, (Insecta, voro,) a group of mammiferous animals, considered by some au- thors as a distinct order; by others, and parti- cularly by Cuvier, as a family only of the great carnivorous order, named by that great natura- list Carnassiers. The peculiarities of struc- ture by which the Insectivora are characterized appear to me to be equally important with those which have led me already to treat of the Chei- roptera as an ordinal group, and I shall there- fore consider them in that point of view. They consist of four very distinct groups, the relations of which are not very clearly fixed. I have ventured to consider them as four families, viz.:— Talpid«, typified by the mole, Talpa. Erinacead*, by the hedgehog, Erinaceus. Soricidje, by the Shrews, Sorex. Tupaiam:, by the genus Tupaia. Such at least appears to me, in the present state of our knowledge, to be a near approach to the natural groups of which the order i9 composed. In the Talpida I include the ge- nera Talpa, Condytura, and Chrysochloris; in the Soricida, the genera Sorex, (with the sub- genera, so called, into which it has lately been subdivided,) Mygale and Scalops, the latter genus being clearly osculant between the Soricida and the Talpida; in the Erinaceadte, the genera Erinaceus, Echinops, and Centenes; and m the Tupaiada, the single genus Tupaia, or Cladobates, as it is named by Fred. Cuvier. It will at once be seen, by reference to this enumeration of the types of form which occur in this order, that animals, differing greatly in their general structure and habits, are included in it. But it will also be found that they all agree in the general character of their teeth, which are in all instances furnished with ele- vated and pointed tubercles, for the purpose of breaking down the hard and polished elytra of coleopterous insects, upon which most of them in a greater or less degree subsist. This cha- racter has already been exhibited in the insecti- vorous group of the Cheiroptera, which we have considered as leading towards the present order; and even in the lower forms of the Quadru- mana a similar tendency is evident, as in the Maki, the Loris, and others. They agree, also, in being for the most part nocturnal animals, and, with some exceptions, in living under ground, or at least in exhibiting a tendency to such a mode of life; and all those which in- habit the colder countries pass the winter in a state of torpidity. They all possess clavicles; their limbs are generally short, and they are plantigrade. They have ventral mamms, the stomach is perfectly simple, and they are desti- tute of a ccecum. The different families which I have named are as well characterized by their habits as by their external form, and their more intimate structure. The Talpida, the teeth of which are shewn in the genus Talpa (fig. 441,) and Chry- sochloris (fig. 450), which are pre-eminently subterranean, are distinguished by their extra- ordinary habits of forming long and complicated burrows underground, passing their whole lives in a subterranean retreat, in which they are born, feed, breed, hibernate, and die; and which re- treat, in the case of the common mole, is formed with the utmost art, and a beautifully complica- ted construction. The Soricidm (fig. 449) are a sort of carnivorous mice; and although they do not actually burrow, retreat during the winter, and in their ordinary repose, into holes, feed- ing, however, on the surface or in the water, several of them being partially aquatic, diving with facility after aquatic insects, and remain- ing without difficulty a long time under water. In both these families there is a peculiar cha-