805 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. ces relative to the neck of the bone itself, ren- dering it very liable to fracture in the aged. I mean the expansion of the cells, by which the strength of the interior of the bone is dimi- nished ; and, secondly, by the partial removal by absorption of that long bony arch of com- pact tissue, upon which in the adult depends, vve believe, the principal strength of the neck of the bone (Jig. 318) ; and even in many aged subjects, vve find the partitions of the bony cells removed, and a large cavity filled with fatty medulla occupies the centre of the cervix femoi'is. All these alterations obviously weaken this portion of the thigh-bone, and vve feel very little doubt but that when the condition of the bone above alluded to exists, even without a fall a fracture may occur. We have noticed specimens of senile degeneration of the neck of the femur in museums, in which the neck of the femur had been removed gradually by ab- sorption, so that the head of the bone had ap- proximated to the trochanters. Such specimens, where the history of the case was unknown, have, vve doubt not, been from time to time adduced as evidences in favour of the possibi- lity of bony consolidation of the intra-capsular fracture. These observations on the effects of senile degeneration of the neck of the thigh- bone sufficiently account for the remarkable frequency of the intra-capsular fracture of the cervix fernoris in the aged subject from the most trivial causes. The fracture, under such circumstances, should, in our minds, be looked upon more as a stage of morbid alteration, from which no amendment is to be expected, than as an accidental lesion, which the efforts of nature and the aid of surgery can be deemed adequate to repair. B. Extra-capsular fracture of the neck, and fracture of the superior portion of the shaft the femur.—Fracture of the neck of the femur may occur in a part of the bone immedi- ately external to the synovial sac and capsu- lar ligament; it may pass obliquely through the cervix fernoris and trochanters, or it may occur in the cellular and spongy portion of the bone which is immediately external to these processes. In all these cases the accident is usually met with in young and vigorous indivi- duals, and is often very severe. There is in these cases much deformily, great eversion of the limb, with considerable shortening and swelling. The fracture having traversed the bone external to the capsular ligament, there is but little to resist the full force of muscular action upon the lower fragment of the bone, while the upper is forced downwards by the weight of the body, so that, from both these causes, much shortening is produced. The muscles are in a state of spasm, and at first resist the surgeon's efforts to bring down the limb to its normal length. The muscles gra- dually yield to gentle and continued extension, and if now a movement of rotation be commu- nicated to the broken femur, a crepitus can be felt by the hand pressing on the great trochan- ter, which on rotation of the femur is perceived to move in a small circle. Fversion of the whole limb, in cases of fracture of the upper extremity of the femur, has been noticed as one of its most prominent symptoms, and the cause of it may be fairly attributed to the pre- ponderating influence of the rotators outwards, to which the lower fragment is abandoned when fracture has occurred : the rotators out- wards are the glutaeus maximus, the three ad- ductors, the pectinalis, the psoas magnus, and iliacus internus, together with the obturators, pyriformis, and other muscles, inserted into the posterior inter-trochanteric line. These mus- cles are solely opposed by the rotators inwards, which are few and comparatively weak. Not- withstanding the violence of the injury in ge- neral, and the deformity, the prognosis in these cases is much more favourable than in the case of the intra-capsular fracture, because in the former a solid bony union of the fragments may be reasonably hoped for. In considering the symptoms of fracture of the superior extremity of the shaft and of the neck of the femur, whether the seat of fracture be within or without the synovial cap- sule, it should be recollected that extraordi- nary cases may occur; thus there may be fracture combined with inversion of the limb. The cause of this inversion, in particular cases, has been sought for, and Mr. Guthrie gives ingenious anatomical reasons for this rare symp- tom, depending upon the line of direction the fracture may have taken ; if, for example, the fracture may have taken such a course as to detach from the shaft of the femur the neck, and at the same time also the lesser trochanter, to which is attached the great rotator outwards, the psoas and iliacus, and if at the same time the attachments of the gemini, obturators, and pyriformis be destroyed, in this case Mr. Guthrie supposes that there is an anatomical reason for the rotation inwards, as the tensor vaginas ferno- ris and the anterior fibres of the glutaeus me- dius remain unopposed. This explanation is ingenious, but the cause of occasional inversion of the limb in fracture, noticed by Petit, De- sault,and all subsequent writers, has not yet, in our mind, been sufficiently elucidated. The phenomenon of inversion of the foot, in cases of fracture of the upper extremity of the femur, is extremely rare, but it has been noticed in the intra-capsular fracture, (Stanley, Smith,) in the extra-capsular fracture, (Guthrie,) and we have ourselves seen it in all these cases. The deviation inwards, says Dupuytren, is so rare, that we can scarcely reckon upon meeting it once in a hundred cases. The surgeon of the Hotel Dieu attributes much of the rotation out- wards in fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone to the action of the adductor muscles, but adds, " il faut dire aussi, qu'on notice presqueaucune partie d'une autre cause, qui cependant peut seule rendre compte de la deviation en dedans, et apprendre a y remedier. Je veux parler de I'obliquite des fragmens dans la fracture du col du femur, si le fragment interne se porte en arricre, et l'externe en avant, il y a alors devia- tion en dehors. Si, au contiaire, la fracture est oblique, en sens inverse, la deviation aura lieu en dedans. C'est done par I'obliquite des frag- mens, que ces varietts de deviation peuvent ctre appreciees." C. Fracture of the neck of the femur, compli-