HEARING. 575 different individuals a similar variation in the limits of sensibility to sounds, that is, we find, in the words of Dr. Wollaston, that " an ear which would be considered as perfect with regard to the generality of sounds, may at the same time be completely insensible to such as are at one or the other extremity of the scale of musical notes, the hearing or not hearing of which seems to depend wholly on the pitch or frequency of vibration constituting the note, and not upon the intensity or loudness of the noise."* And we owe to this distinguished man the knowledge of the interesting fact, that an insensibility of the ear to low sounds may be artificially induced, by exhausting the cavity of the tympanum to a great degree. This may be effected by forcibly attempting to take breath by expansion of the chest, the mouth and nose being kept shut; after one or two attempts, the pressure of the external air is strongly felt upon the membrana tympani, which is thus from the external pressure thrown into a state of considerable tension. An ear in this state becomes insensible to grave tones, without losing in any degree the perception of more acute ones. This induced defective state of the ear, from exhaustion of the tympanum, may even be preserved for some time without the continued effort of inspiration and without even stopping the breath, and may in an in- stant be removed by the act of swallowing. In repeating this experiment as I sit writing at my desk, I perceive that a great degree of stillness ensues immediately the sensation of pressure upon the tympanic membrane is felt, owing no doubt to the low rumbling noise of the waggons and carriages in the street being imperfectly audible. A similar observation was made by Dr. Wollaston: " If I strike the table before me with the end of my linger," he says, " the whole board sounds with a deep dull note. If I strike it with my nail, there is also at the same time a sharp sound pro- duced by quicker vibrations of parts around the point of contact. When the ear is ex- hausted, it hears only the latter sound, without perceiving in any degree the deeper note of the whole table. In the same manner, in listening to the sound of a carriage the deeper rumbling noise of the body is no longer heard by an exhausted ear; but the rattle of a chain or screw remains at least as audible as before exhaustion." Dr. Wollaston refers to the cu- rious effect produced by trying this experiment at a concert: " none of the sharper sounds are lost, but by the suppression of a great mass of louder sounds the shriller ones are so much the more distinctly perceived, even to the rat- tling of the keys of a bad instrument, or scraping of catgut unskilfully touched." Ano- ther very interesting circumstance connected with this subject is the production of the same condition of the tympanum by the sudden in- crease of external pressure as well as by the decrease of that within, as occurs in the diving- bell as soon as it touches the water, the pres- * Wollaston on Sounds inaudible by certain Ears. Phil. Trans. 1820. sure of which, according to Wollaston, upon the included air closes the Eustachian tube, and in proportion to the descent occasions a degree of tension on the tympanum, that becomes distressing to persons who have not learned to obviate this inconvenience." From one opportunity which I had of de- scending in the diving-bell now exhibiting at the Polytechnic Institution in Regent-street, I ex- perienced this sensation very strongly, and exactly as Dr. Wollaston describes it. The first effect of the pressure on the tympanic membrane was the production of a crackling noise, which was immediately succeeded by a painful sense of pressure in both ears; but this is immediately relieved by the act of swallow- ing ; it soon however recurs, and may be in a like manner again relieved. I had no means of judging exactly as to the limits of audition ; but I distinctly observed in conversation with those who descended with me, that grave tones were those least distinctly heard; the grave tones of my own voice also were less distinct as well as the low notes in whistling. In such cases then it would appear that from the strong compression exerted on the mem- brana tympani, that membrane cannot vibrate in unison with tones which result from a small number of vibrations. On the other hand we may infer, from Dr. Wollaston's observations, that " human hearing, in general, is more con- fined than is generally supposed with regard to its perception of very acute sounds, and has probably in every instance some definite limit at no great distance beyond the sounds ordi- narily heard." The ordinary range of human hearing comprised between the lowest notes of the organ and the highest known cry of insects, includes, according to Wollaston, more than nine octaves, the whole of which are distinctly perceptible by most ears. Dr. Wollaston has, however, related some cases in which the range was much less, and limited as regards the per- ception of high notes; in one case, the sense of hearing terminated at a note four octaves above the middle E of the piano-forte; this note he appeared to hear rather imperfectly, but the F above it was inaudible, although his hearing in other respects was as perfect as that of ordinary ears; another case was that of a lady who could never hear the chirping of the gryllus campestris; and in a third case the limit was so low that the chirping of the com- mon house-sparrow could not be heard. Dr. Wollaston supposes that inability to hear the piercing squeak of a bat is not very rare, as he met with several instances of persons not aware of such a sound. The opinion prevailed for a long time that rupture or destruction of the membrana tym- pani is necessarily followed by the loss of the sense. But Sir A. Cooper proved distinctly that not only was hearing not destroyed, but that in some cases of deafness it might be punctured with considerable benefit to the patient.* The most frequent cause of destruc- tion of the tympanum is otitis, and provided * Phil. Trans, for 1800 and 1801.