327 FOETUS. markable phenomenon, the utterly unfounded hypothesis has been formed, that these spon- taneous separations are the result of gangrene, although there are no traces of it to be dis- covered on the stump, it being actually, to a certain extent, healed, and no change of colour to be seen :" and he immediately adds, " a case lately observed by Montgomery of Dublin appears to contribute a natural explana- tion of this remarkable fact, inasmuch as it indicates the cause of this separation." He then repeats the details of my first case, and proceeds to say he " believes that both the formation of these threads, and the amputation of the limbs, which are most probably in all cases produced by them, may be explained by the history of the formation of the fcetus." He then enters into a minute detail of facts well known to all who are acquainted with the mode in which the development of the fcetus takes place, and observes, " I look upon these threads as prolongations of the egg mem- brane from which the fcetus grows, whether this skin (or membrane) be taken as the navel bladder or the amnion :" and he subsequently objects to their being considered as formed by organized lymph, which I considered them to be, and still remain of the same opinion. The prolongations of the membrane, Gurlt thinks, are afterwards, by the constant motions of the fcetus, twisted into slight but firm cords or threads, which may involve different portions of the foetal limbs, (as we sometimes find the umbilical cord several times round the neck, or other parts of the child's body,) so as to stricture them and cause their separation ; and in this way Professor Gurlt explains the presence of the ligatures concerned in the pro- duction of spontaneous amputation. I dissent from this as a general explanation, for a reason presently to be stated; but it is only justice to the author to mention that the condition of both the children which I examined was in other respects such as favours his theory, for whenever such unnatural adhesions take place between the amnion and the fcetus, they give rise to a monstrosity of a peculiar kind, and this is observable in both these cases, and in others also: in one there is protrusion of the brain and monstrous formation of the head in other respects; and in the other the liver, stomach, and great part of the intestines were contained in a hernial sac, external to the body. But notwithstanding the support thus derived from analogy, there is one circumstance which appears fatal to the explanation when applied to the first case described by me, which is, that in all cases where these membranous con- nections have been observed giving rise to monstrosity, one end of the cord or thread- like band has always been found attached to the amnion, and the other to the fcetus, but here both ends of the cords are attached to the limbs, and afford no evidence of having been connected with the amnion; and it was for this reason that I abstained at first from offering the explanation now proposed by Pro- fessor Gurlt, which I then thought, and still consider inapplicable to the specimen which I was then describing, and equally, or perhaps still more so, to that described by Zagorsky, to be mentioned presently, see Jig. 159 ; though, at the same time, I am quite ready to admit that ligamentous bands so formed would be fully adequate to the accomplishment of such an effect : and I now know also that strictures from another source, and which from their nature must possess very little constricting force indeed, are in some instances found sufficient so completely to act on and indent the limb, that, could their action be con- tinued, which, however, is scarcely possible, they might ultimately induce a similar mutila- tion. While I was engaged in committing these observations to writing, I received a most interesting preparation from Dr. W. O'B. Adams, in which the coiling of the umbilical cord round the left leg of the foetus at three months had deeply indented it, as represented in the subjoined ^. 157. Here, it will be Fig. 157. observed, at least three-fourths of the thick- ness of the limb are divided by the pressure of the umbilical cord, which was coiled around it, and which, both in this and Jig. 158, is removed from the strictured part where it originally lay, in order to show more distinctly the effect produced by it. Within the last few months another instance of the same effect produced by the same agent just above the left knee of a foetus at about the same period of growth, occurred with a patient of the writer's, and under his hnraie-