431 GENERATION. sary to conclude, from the experiments already referred to, that these ova are in some instances derived from the atmosphere, but yet the num- ber of Infusoria is by no means in direct pro- portion with the quantity of air. We are also reduced to the necessity of holding that every portion of the atmospheric air is equally im- pregnated with infusorial germs or ova, and that these bodies may remain for years dis- solved, as it were, or invisibly suspended in the atmosphere, and in a perfectly dry state—a supposition contrary to analogy, and not fully warranted by the fact that Vibriones may be resuscitated by means of moisture after they have been kept in a dry state for long periods. Fourthly, it may be remarked that the exist- ence of ova, as belonging to many of the Infu- soria, is entirely hypothetical, since most of these animals are known, when once formed, to propagate by other means, as by the division of their whole bodies or by budding. The production of infusorial animalcules from solutions of granite, silex, &c. recently described by Mr. Crosse, we have no hesitation in pronouncing to be either a mistake, or the result of changes occurring in admixed particles of organic matter. The Entozoa, or that class of animals which live only in the bodies of others, afford proofs of spontaneous generation still more convincing than those already mentioned. These remark- able animal productions are capable of existing no where but in the bodies of those animals which they naturally inhabit: they live either loose or attached, within cavities or imbedded in the substance of the textures; sometimes in places, such as the alimentary canal or respira- tory passages, to which the external air has access, and at other times in close cavities of the body, into which there is no opening from without, such as the chambers of the eye, the serous sacs, cysts, and other cavities, in the parenchyma of organs, the bloodvessels, &c. Entozoa do not live for any length of time after being discharged from the natural places of their abode ; and they survive a very short time only after the death of the animals in which they live. If Entozoa are not admitted to be the pro- duct of spontaneous generation, in order to ac- count for their origin, it becomes necessary to suppose either that these creatures themselves or their ova pass directly from one animal to another, or that they are introduced through the medium of air or water. Upon the first sup- position, carnivorous animals ought to be affected with entozoa, at least in greatest quan- tity, if not in some instances exclusively ; and the entozoa infesting any particular animal ought to be of the same kind as those which exist in the animal serving it for food. But such is by no means the case. Herbivorous as well as carnivorous animals have entozoa, and in no less quantity, and each animal is the abode of its own-peculiar kind. The same en- tozoa infest the same animals in all localities and climates; thus all the human entozoa, with the exception of the Dracunculus or Guinea- worm, which is an external parasite rather than a true entozoon, are the same in all races of men. Neither do we recognise any simi- larity between the entozoa infesting animals of a particular district and allied tribes of animals living in the neighbouring waters In adopting the second supposition that the eggs or germs of Entozoa may gain the bodies of animals by circuitous routes, we are met by many difficulties in addition to those already stated in reference to a similar explanation of the origin of Infusoria. Many Entozoa reside only in particular organs of the body, and in the very interior of these organs, as the human Cysticercus cellulosus in the choroid plexus of the brain, in the substance of the brain itself, in the chambers of the eye, &.c. so that it is necessary to suppose the ova of Entozoa to have been introduced into the circulation, carried through the smallest bloodvessels, and depo- sited in the places in which they are developed. Animals living in the same situations and feed- ing on the same substances have different kinds of Entozoa. The ova of some of the Entozoa, as for example, those of the common round worm, (Ascaris lumbricoides,) are so large that they could not pass through the largest even of the capillary bloodvessels : the ova are so heavy that they could not be transmitted through the atmosphere ; and the supposition of the passage of the ova from parent to offspring is opposed by the mechanical difficulty of the transmission, as well as by the facts that parent and child are not always affected with the same kinds of worms, and that though the complaint of worms may be said to run in families, yet many escape, and one or more generations in the hereditary succession are frequently exempt from it. En- tozoa have been observed in the foetus of ani- mals, and supposing them to be introduced from without, it would be necessary to hold that the entozoa themselves or their ova have passed directly from the mother to the child in the uterus, or to have traversed a route through which the globules of the blood are not trans- mitted. Some of the Entozoa, we may further remark, when once formed, are viviparous or bear their young alive; and with regard to these kinds it would be necessary to suppose that they may arise by invisible ova or germs as well as pro- pagate in the viviparous mode. These facts appear to us to speak strongly in favour of the occasional occurrence of sponta- neous generation,—" a doctrine which, had it not been applied in many instances where it was manifestly untrue, would have met with less ridicule and a more just appreciation than it has usually obtained." The epithet " spon- taneous," which we have retained as the most common, is equally inappropriate as applied to this or to any other of the processes of nature ; and the analogy of by far the greater number of plants and animals militates against the proba- bility of the hypothesis ; but it must at the same time be held in mind that the organized bodies in which spontaneous production has been said to occur differ widely in their general structure and functions from those which are reproduced by means of ova; and we are