HYPERTROPHY AND ATROPHY. 826 likewise. The blood in these cases is chiefly contained in capillaries and veins, the ramifica- tions of which will be found fully injected. The dependent parts of all the vascular tissues and organs of a body thus placed, exhibit similar appearances. The scalp on the occiput, the posterior lobes of the brain, and the cerebellum are much more injected than the anterior parts of the same textures. The pos- terior parts of the lungs, of the stomach and intestines, of the spleen, liver, and kidneys exhibit the same state of vascular congestion. That this results altogether from position and the blood in the vessels obeying the universal law of gravitation, may be clearly proved by reversing the position of the body, when after a little time the blood will desert the former dependent but now elevated parts, and those portions of the texture which before were almost devoid of blood from their elevated position, now have their vessels filled with it. When hyperemia results from a mechanical obstacle to the circulation, it is not accumulated at one part of an organ or viscus, but all parts appear equally gorged with the blood. In certain diseased states of the heart and liver, the intestinal canal presents an example of this general hyperemia, owing to the mechanical obstacle to the free circulation of the blood in the right heart. The circumference of the intestine is every where reddened by the blood accumulated in its capillaries. Andral, by whom of late years the term hy- peremia itself was brought into use in morbid anatomy, gives the following varieties of it. 1. Active or sthenic hyperemia, denoting the state indicated by the ordinary expression acute inflammation. 2. Passive or asthenic, resulting from diminished tone in the capil- lary vessels. 3. Mechanical, from an obstacle to the venous circulation. 4. Cadaveric or post-mortem, being the result of those physical and chemical laws to which all inorganic matter is subject, and to which all organized bodies are also subjected when the vital spark has ceased to animate them.* This last variety, moreover, he subdivides into two genera. First gemts, hyperemia produced at the mo- ment of death.—Cause; the contractility of tissue which resides in the small arteries, con- tinuing to act after the heart has ceased to beat. Second genus, hyperemia produced at a certain period after death. This genus comprehends the following species :■—1. Hyperemia by hy- postasis or dependent position. 2. Hyperemia by transudation of the blood or of some of its component parts through the parietes of its vessels. 3. Hyperemia by chemical affinities. Anaemia, a term long in use to express a general exsangueous and cachectic condition of the body, is also applied to a local state of exsangueousness. Any cause which would impede or cut off the wonted supply of blood to a part will occasion this condition in it; the diminution in the calibre of the principal artery of an organ, from mechanical pressure or disease * Path. Anat. by Townsend, vol. i. p. 15. in the vessel, or a depressed state of the nervous influence. Hyperemia of one organ may give rise to anaemia of another, the former as it were attracting the blood away from the latter. The general condition of anosmia is not un- frequently brought under the physician's notice either as the result of some excessive and long- continued hemorrhage or of some deranged state of general nutrition, giving rise to a deterio- ration in the quality of the blood, or a general deficiency in the powers of the nervous in- fluence. The surface of the body is pale, the mucous membranes, as far as they can be seen, partake of the same exsangueous state, the secretions are defective and vitiated, the tone of the muscular and vascular systems is con- siderably diminished, and this state may go on without any specific morbid change in any organ, beyond its participation in the general scanty supply of the blood, or it may co-exist with an organic disease, which, although it may have been at first the result of the primary exciting cause of the anaemia, now serves to increase it, or offers the greatest impediment to its removal. (R. B. Todd.) HYPERTROPHYandATROPHY, (vve?, super, a,,priv., and T^(pu,nutrio),{m morbid ana- tomy). When any organ or tissue has acquired a certain increase of developement, without any manifest alteration of its natural structure, it is said to be in the state of hypertrophy— the increase being due to a greater activity of the nutritive process in the part affected. A familiar example of hypertrophy, although not morbid, is afforded by the augmentation which muscular fibre acquires in consequence of increased action. If the biceps muscle of one arm be actively exercised, while that of the other does not undergo any considerable degree of action, the former acquires a great increase of size, it becomes denser and firmer, and manifests the physical and vital phenomena of the muscular tissue with more than ordinary energy. There is no texture in the body which does not occasionally exhibit evidence of the hyper- trophous condition. The circumstances which favour its production are an abundant and a free afflux of blood to the part, an energetic nervous influence and an increased demand upon the organ, or increased exercise if it be muscular; and indeed these are the almost in- variable conditions under which hypertrophy is manifested. The heart becomes hypertrophous under an exalted nervous influence, or from a necessarily increased exercise from the effort to overcome some obstacle to the free circulation of the blood through its cavities; one kidney acquires a great increase of size if the other one be incapable of performing its function. It may be said that the liver is in a state of hypertrophy in the foetus in utero, for it has a larger supply of blood than in extra-uterine life, and the lungs have not as yet begun to share with it in the office of decarbonizing the