150 EXCRETION. hurtful. The menstrual discharge may be regarded as strictly an excretion, though one which is required only in the human species and for a limited time. Berzelius stated several distinctions, which he thought important, between the excremen- titious and recrementitious secretions in the animal body, particularly that the former are always acid, that each of them contains more than one animal matter, and that their salts are more numerous and varied than those in the blood, while the latter have an excess of alkali from the same saline ingredients as the serum of the blood, and each contains only a single animal principle, substituted for the albumen of the serum. But these distinctions are cer- tainly inapplicable in several instances, and the only one of them which appears to be a general fact, is the more complex saline impregnation of the excreted fluids. III. It is unnecessary to dwell on the well- known injurious effects, on the animal oeconomy, of the suppression of any of these excretions. It may, indeed, reasonably be doubted, whether the rapidly fatal effects of obstructing the ex- posure of the blood to the air at the lungs are owing to the retention of carbon, or carbonic acid; it seems much more probable that the cause which stops the circulation at the lungs in asphyxia, is the suspension of the absorption of free oxygen into the blood, rather than the suspension of the evolution of carbon or car- bonic acid. But even if the circulation could be maintained, after the exposure of the blood to the air is suspended, we know that the carbonic acid which we have good reason to believe would soon be in excess in the blood, would then act as a narcotic poison. Of the effects of suspension of the excretion by the skin we can- not speak with certainty, because that is a case which probably hardly ever occurs ; and if it were to occur, the lungs and kidneys would probably act as perfect succedanea. But it is worthy of notice that at a time when the skin is known to be nearly unfit for its usual functions —during the desquamation that succeeds exan- the.matous diseases, and especially scarlatina,— the lungs and the kidneys, on which an unusual burden may thereby be supposed to be thrown, are remarkably prone to disease. The effect of suppression of the excretion of urine (i. e. of ischuria renalis), whether occurring as a disease in man, or produced by extirpation of the kid- neys in animals, is uniformly more or less of febrile symptoms quickly followed by coma and death ; and in these circumstances it is now known, that the urea may be detected in the blood. A variety of morbid affections, and particularly an affection of the nervous system marked by inaptitude for muscular or mental exertion, always follows the obstruction of the excretion of bile, and absorption of bile into the blood constituting jaundice. There are a few cases of intense jaundice which terminate in coma and death as rapidly as the ischuria renalis does, and with as little morbid appearance in the brain to explain this kind of fatal termination ; and in several such cases the remarkable phenomenon has been observed after death, that the bile-ducts have been pervious and empty.* It is obvious, that it is this last circumstance only, that can make a case of jaundice analogous to cases of the ischuria renalis. If it shall appear to be a general fact, that the cases of jaundice presenting this remarkable appearance on dissection are those which terminate with unusual rapidity in the way of coma, the analogy will appear to be complete ; and when such cases are compared with those, much more frequently occurring, where the excretion of bile is only obstructed, not suppressed, and where months frequently elapse without any bad symptom occurring,—it appears a reason- able conjecture, that the retention in the blood of matters destined for excretion, is more rapidly and certainly injurious than the re- absorption of matters which have been excreted from the blood at their ordinary outlet, but not expelled from the body. Although there is still much obscurity in regard to the intention of the menstrual dis- charge, yet it may be stated as a general fact, that the suppression of this evacuation is more frequently followed by injurious effects (particu- larly affections of the nervous system, or vica- rious hemorrhage) than the stopping of an equal amount of haemorrhage, going on equally slowly, would be; so that the general principle applicable to other excretions is exemplified here likewise. IV. The next question in regard to the ex- cretions is, in what manner they are effected ; and on this question, although we must profess ignorance in the last result, yet it is instructive to observe, what seems now to be well ascer- tained, that the large size, and apparently com- plex structure, of several of the organs of excre- tion, appear to be no part of the contrivance for the formation of these fluids from the blood. It is stated by Cuvier, as the result of a general review of the structure of glandular organs in different classes of animals, that pro- ducts very nearly resembling each other, and evidently answering the same ends, are formed in organs where the structure, and the disposi- tion of vessels are very various; and again, that substances the most widely different are formed in organs that are in these respects ex- tremely similar ;f and that this should be the case will not appear surprising when we consider the result of the most minute and accurate observations on the ultimate structure even of those secreting organs, which form substances the most dissimilar to the general nourishing fluid, either of animals or vegetables. " Chaque cellule de la structure vegetale," says De Candolle, " peut etre considered comme une vesicule organique et vivante, qui est entouree, ou de cavites dans lesquelles abordent des liquides, ou de cellules remplies elles-memes de * See Marsh in Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iii. Two cases of exactly the same description have oc- curred within these few years in the Edinburgh Clinical wards. t Lecons d'Anat. Comp. t. v. p. 214.