ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 796 author, as we have very generally found osseous growths exterior to the hip-joint in the os inno- minatum and femur, {Jig. 310), as the result of scrofulous inflammation of the articulation. These growths are generally friable stalactiform productions which beset the bones, and are to be seen in the numerous specimens illustrating the morbid anatomy of morbus coxa?, which are contained in our museums in Dublin.* Notwithstanding these osseous productions or vegetations, the bones are found to have dimi- nished much in their specific gravity. I have always found them float when thrown into water. These growths are, however, only met with in the post-mortem examination of such chronic cases as have manifested in their course various alternations of improvement and re- verses ; they are almost invariably found when the caries of the bones had been arrested, and an imperfect attempt at anchylosis had been made. We have also opportunities of examining anatomically the hip-joints of persons who have had this disease in their youth, in whom it had been arrested in the second or third stage, and who had attained advanced life, and died of some other complaint. In some, besides the bony growths already alluded to, we find ex- amples of anchylosis or of a false joint; indeed, although an absolute union and consolidation of the bones, viz. the os innominatum and the head of the femur may not have taken place, still in most cases there is very little real motion of the two bones upon each other ; the flexor and adductor muscles of the thigh and hip-joint are usually in a state of spastic contraction ; they admit of but little increase of flexion : whenever we attempt extension, we find the thigh is readily brought down from the abdomen, the lumbar vertebrae are arched forwards, and this portion of the spine and the sacrolumbar articulation are the seat of motion, which often is erroneously referred to the hip- joint. The os innominatum follows the head of the femur just as freely almost as the scapula accompanies the various changes of position impressed upon the humerus, when anchylosis of the shoulder-joint has taken place. I was called upon about eight years ago to examine the body of a woman, aged 26 years, who died in the Whitworth Hospital of an acute disease. This young woman had walked very lamely for many years, in consequence of her having had a most tedious and dangerous attack of hip- disease twenty years before her death, but after her recovery from the first attack she never had any pain or inflammation in the joint; there were no evidences of suppuration ever having occurred ; marks of issues were on the nates. "When making an examination of the struc- tures around the articulation and of the joint itself, the muscles were found remarkably firm, but somewhat paler than usual; the ligamentous structures around the junction of f These osseous vegetations we have already alluded to in this work, when speaking of the chro- nic strumous arthritis of the elbow : see p. 79, Elbow-joint, Abnormal Anatomy of. the femur with the os innominatum were very strong, and so close was the union of the bones that on a superficial view we might easily ima- gine that true bony anchylosis had occurred. 1 removed the bones, and they are preserved in the Richmond School Museum. The whole head of the femur has been absorbed, and only one-fourth part of the neck of the bone remains; the place of the cotyloid cavity is supplied by a rough scabrous surface, of an oval form trans- versely, and about one inch and one line in this its longest diameter ; the two rough bony sur- faces with eminences and depressions con- fronted to each, and reciprocally adapted, were joined by a species of strong fibrous capsule ; no motion whatever existed between these bones, yet when the ligamentous connexion between them was cut, it was evident that no bony union had taken place. In this case the false anchylosis had occurred in a very unfa- vourable direction ; the thigh was flexed to so great a degree that the knee was really elevated above the level of the hip-joint, and so much adducted at the same time, that the knee crossed much the middle line. When she stood up straight on the right and perfect limb, the left heel did not approach within twelve inches of the ground : the texture of the bones was as hard as iron. We find in a modern author the observation, which must be admitted to be correct, that true bony anchylosis of the hip-joint is rare; but, he adds, that many pathologists doubt that such an occurrence ever takes place : that the many specimens of true bony anchylosis of the hip we have witnessed, were all examples of union of bony surfaces in scrofulous cases, we would not wish to maintain, but we imagine many of them must have been the result of the ordinary hip disease cured, as it is called, by anchylosis. Sir Philip Crampton has shewn me a very fine specimen of anchylosis of the hip-joint, which very much resembles the pre- paration represented (fig. 312); the acetabu- lum had been the principal seat of the disease; it was much widened, and the head of the bone was drawn towards its upper and outer part, where firm anchylosis had taken place. In this case Sir P. Crampton assured me the pa- tient had a constitution eminently scrofulous. He got well of the hip-disease by anchylosis, the thigh-bone having been judiciously pre- served in a vertical direction during the pro- gress of the cure. He walked afterwards tole- rably well, but at the age of 26 became at- tacked with phthisis, and died. This case proves that true bony anchylosis can occur in the scrofulous subject, and that attention may occasionally overcome the disposition to exces- sive flexion and adduction of the limb. The museum of the Richmond Hospital contains three specimens, in which the junction of the os innominatum with the femur is as solid as if they formed but one bone, and a vertical section through the united bones shews as free a communication of the cells of the cervix femoris and those of the os innominatum as if these bones had never been separately formed. These seem to have been examples