945 INSECTA. Nerves of the head.—When the first pair of ganglia, which always constitute the brain, are viewed from above, they each present a convex uniform appearance, arid are distinguished from each other by a depression between them, which is more apparent on their anterior than their posterior surface, and is occasioned by the lateral part of each lobe or ganglion being car- ried a little forwards, so that the two lie across the oesophagus in a curved or lunated direction. On their under surface they are concave, to adapt them to the form of the oesophagus, above which they are situated. From the an- terior and lower part of each lobe originate four remarkable nerves, which belong to the organs of sense and the viscera. The first and largest of these, the optic, passes a little for- wards and outwards to the stemmata, a little behind the mandibles; the second, the anten- rtal, passes a little more anteriorly, to the pajpi- form antenna; the third, and most inferior, descends at the side of the pharynx, and uniting with its fellow of the opposite side forms a loop or collar around the oesophagus, to the under-surface of which it distributes a few fila- ments. We consider it as analogous to the glossopharyngeal nerve of vertebrata. The fourth is situated between the second and third. It passes a little forwards from its origin, and then ascending above the pharynx, meets its fellow of the opposite side, with which it forms a minute ganglion, from the hinder part of which a single nerve passes backwards (b) beneath the brain, in the median line above the oesophagus, to the stomach and viscera. This nerve was discovered by Swammerdam,*' who called it the recurrent, from the manner in which it originates and is distributed, and it was afterwards minutely figured and described by Lyonet. Miiller has since described it minutely, and figured it in many species, in his paper on the sympathetic nerves of insects, as the proper visceral nerve, analogous to the sym- pathetic. In a paper in the Philosophical Transactions in 1832, we described it as the vagus,\ of which we believe it is the proper analogue. At that time we were led to sup- pose that it had previously been so described by Straus Durckheim, but such, as we have since found, was not the case. We shall pre- sently return to our description of this nerve, in the perfect insect, as belonging to those of the organic functions. Besides these four pairs of nerves from the anterior part of the brain, there is also one minute pair from the posterior, which is directed backwards, and de- veloped on each side of the head into two pairs of little ganglia, («,) which constitute part of the sympathetic system. The first of these ganglia was discovered and rudely figured by Swammerdam,}; and afterwards more correctly by Lyonet, and the second by Straus Durck- heim. We have designated them from their situation the anterior lateral ganglia.^ * Op. cit. tab. xxviii. fig 2. t Part 2, p. 386. X Op. cit. tab. xxviii. tig. 3 i. $ Philosophical Trans, p. 2, 1832, page 387. VOL. II. These are the proper cerebral nerves of the larva, and belong to the senses and organic func- tions. The medulla oblongata, or first subceso- phageal ganglion, also gives origin to four pairs of nerves. The most anterior pair of these is given to the labium ; the next to the palpif'orm maxillae; the third, the analogue of the fifth of vertebrata, conjointly to the muscles of the mandibles and maxillae; and the fourth, the most posterior pair, to the silk vessels, the pro- per salivary organs of the larva. The nerves of the thorax belong to the se- cond, third, fourth, and fifth suboesophageal ganglia, and their intervening cords. The first pair of nerves from the second ganglion (2) are exceedingly small, and are given to the retractor muscles of the head. The second pair (c) are large, and are divided into many branches that are given to the whole of the muscles of the lateral and superior part of that segment, and the third (d) are directed back- wards, and supply the anterior or prothoracic legs. The third ganglion (3) produces also three pairs of nerves. About midway between the second and third ganglion the cord pro- duces on each side a single nervous trunk (f), which is directed a little backwards, and unites at an angle with the first nerve from the third ganglion. These together from a single trunk, which in the early stage of the larva is exceed- ingly small, but increases much in size as the period of changing into the pupa state ap- proaches. It is the first alary nerve, and is given to the future anterior pair of wings, and is now distributed among the muscles of the anterior part of the segment. It is also con- nected with one set of the transverse nerves (e), which exist in each segment loosely attached to the cords, and which we shall describe more particularly hereafter. The second pair of nerves from this ganglion produce each at their base a small branch, which has the appearance of a distinct nerve, and which is distributed laterally to the deep-seated muscles, while its main trunk (g) is given to the second, or meso- thoracic pair of legs. Half-way between the third and fourth ganglion the cord again pro- duces on each side a single nervous trunk (i), which, like the corresponding one in the pre- ceding segment, is directed backwards, and unites with the first nerve from the third gan- glion. It is the second alary nerve given to the muscles of the future second pair of wings. Like the corresponding nerve in the preced- ing segment, it is very small during the early period of the larva state, but is greatly en- larged as the period of transformation ap- proaches. It also unites, like the former, with a set of the transverse nerves (A), and then passes outwards about midway across the recti muscles, between which it penetrates, and pursues its course upwards to the lateral and dorsal muscles of the segments, and which are to act upon the future wings. The second nerve from the ganglion divides, like the cor- responding one from the ganglion of the pre- ceding segment, into two branches, one of which (/c) crosses the smaller rectus muscle, and passes beneath the larger to the dorsal 3 Q