899 INSECTA. Fig. 376. Lateral view of the mouth of Anthophora. Letters and figures as before. 12, the lingua, or tongue. derable length in Anthophora. In each in- stance it is broadest at its articulation with the stipes, and, passing backwards diagonally, unites at its extremity with a corresponding part of the opposite side, and the two thus joined articulate with the narrow sub-mentum, the fulcrum of Kirby. The stipes forms the lateral basilar part of the maxilla, and is shorter in Anthophora than in Bombus, in which it is about one-third of the length of the maxilla. The palpifer is also distinct (3). The lacinia (5) is of great length, and gradually tapers to its extremity. Internally it is slightly concave, and externally is covered with a few scattered hairs. It is articulated freely with the stipes and palpifer, upon which it is inflected in a state of rest to form a sheath for the labium, when the parts of the mouth are folded. When the maxillae are extended to form the sucking tube with the labium, they are a little separated at their base, and inclose between them the cavity of the mouth, within which is a soft fleshy body, the lingua (12) or true tongue, situated anterior to and serving as a valve to the pharynx. The sub-mentum (m) is articulated by a single joint with the united extremities of the two cardines (13). It is long and narrow in Anthophora, but short and triangular in Bombus. It is attached at its sides by a fine membrane to the under surface of the head and throat. The mentum (I) articulates with the sub-mentum, and is an elongated rounded plate, which forms internally a channelled passage to the pharynx. Within it are inserted the muscles of the labial palpi (/c). These organs are long and styliform, and arise from a space at the base of the ligula, the part described as the palpiger by Newman. Their great length is occasioned by an excessive elongation of the second basial joint, which is sometimes as long as the whole maxilla itself, and is furnished at its distal extremity with a minute brush of hairs, and also articulates with the remaining short joint of the organ. The remaining por- tion of the labium is divided into three parts* The two lateral ones are short styliform pro- cesses, the paraglossa (**), and the central one, commonly called the tongue of the bee, is the part employed by the insect in gathering honey. In Apis, Bombus, and Anthophora it is a long tapering muscular organ, formed of an immense number of short annular divisions, and densely covered throughout its whole length with long erectile hairs. It is not tubular but solid, and when actively employed is extended to a great distance beyond the other parts of the mouth, but when at rest is closely packed up and con- cealed between the maxillae. The manner in which the honey is obtained when the organ is plunged into it at the bottom of a flower, is by lapping, or a constant succession of short and quick extensions and contractions of the organ, which occasion the fluid to be accumulated upon it, and ascend along its upper surface, until it reaches the orifice of the tube formed by the approximation of the maxilla above, and the labial palpi and this part of the ligula below. At each contraction a part of the ex- tended ligula is drawn within the orifice of the tube, and the honey with which it is covered ascends into the cavity of the mouth, assisted in its removal from the surface of the ligula by the little brush of hairs with which the elon- gated second joint of each labial palpus is fur- nished. From the mouth the honey is passed on through the pharynx into the oesophagus by the simple act of deglutition, as in other ani- mals. In Anthidium the ligula is not longer than the labial palpi; while in the Andrenida: all the parts of the mouth are much shortened, and resemble similar parts in the Vespidce in being divided into four lobes* In the latter insects the ligula is quadrifid, and is dilated at its apex, and each lobe is terminated by a minute gland.f The two lateral lobes, para- glossaz, are shorter than the middle ones. In Tenthredinida the ligula is also short, but is divided only into three lobes. We have thus seen that the head and its ap- pendages are most perfectly developed as a whole in the Coleoptera, and that in passing through the succeeding Orders of Mandibulata certain parts are more or less developed in each Order, in accordance with the general habits and mode of life of the insects; that in the carnivorous and omnivorous families, and in those whose habits of life require a great amount of strength, either in procuring their food or in the construction of their nests, the mandibles are the most important of the oral organs, and are most largely developed. But as we pass from insects with these habits to the Haustellata, whose food and modes of life are of an entirely different description, the man- dibles lose their importance, and become atro- phied, and their office, now altered in its cha- racter, is performed by the maxillae and labium, 22. Newman. Paper on the Head of Insects, p. t Curtis. Westwood. 3 N 2