ANIMAL HEAT. 657 We might even deduce from this a fact of great importance in the animal economy, viz. that muscular contraction is a cause of heat, in- asmuch as it determines the afflux of blood to- wards the muscles themselves as well as to- wards all the surrounding parts. It is very difficult to conceive an occasion of verifying this position in its simplicity ; for bodily efforts, in which the skin becomes red and injected, are always accompanied with some disturbance of the respiration and motion of the blood. We have, however, had an opportunity of seeing one individual of athletic powers, who, by merely throwing the muscles of the fore-arm into strong contraction, could cause the integu- ments of the forearm to become red. During the act of muscular contraction consequently, the temperatuie must have a tendency to rise. at the temperature of 42° c. (108° F.) for fifteen minutes, the temperature of the mu-cle as compared with that of the other was found to have increased one - fifth of a degree. When the whole body was plunged in a hot hath at the temperature of 49° c. (120p F.), the deviation of the needle varied from 12° to 13° and 14° of its scale, which indicated a rise in tem- perature of from one-fifth to two-fifths of a degree c. The pulse was increased to 112 beats per minute, the body being immersed in this bath. The tempe- rature of the body before immersion was 36°, 70 c. (98° F.), a degree to which it immediately returned after coming out of the bath. In trying experi- ments of the same kind subsequently, but with baths at a somewhat lower temperature, namely, 42°, 50 (109° F.), no rise of temperature was indi- cated. The immersion in these cases was not con- tinued for more than twenty minutes. Had it been protracted for a longer time, the result might have been different. When a dog, whose muscles indi- cated a temperature of 33°, 50 (102° F.), was plunged into a hot bath at 49° c. (120° F.), the temperature rose rapidly by half a degree, a degree, and finally two degrees c. ; but the animal had be- come so much enraged that it was found necessary to take him out of the water. The needle of the apparatus being passed into the chest, a like rise in temperature was indicated ; but the rise in tempe- rature was found to happen principally when the animal became angry ; and it is doubtful how far the slate of exasperation influenced the results. In one experiment the one needle being passed into the biceps muscle of a young man, the other into the long radial supinator of a man aged forty- five, no sensible deviation of the magnetic indicator ensued. A vein was then opened in one of the arms, as near as possible to the point at which the needle had been introduced, but no change of tem- perature took place either during or after the flow of the blood. The common iliac artery of a dog was now isolated and a ligature thrown loosely round it, so that it could be compressed or left free at pleasure, and one of the needles of the apparatus plunged into the fleshy part of the thigh. The current of blood having been interrupted, the tem- perature of the limb began to fall, but not until after the lapse of an interval of twenty minutes, when it still amounted to no more than about half a degree c. The free access of blood having been restored, the temperature soon rose again to the normal point. The effect, though trifling in this case,—and the same experiment was repeated several times always with the same result,—is still suffi- cient to show that the arterial blood exerts a direct influence upon the temperature of the animal tis- sues. The effect, however, it is obvious from the time which elapses before it becomes apparent, is to be'attributed, not to the blood which is circulating in the trunks and branches of the vessels, but to that which is contained in the vascular rete.—Ed.] vol. ji. This fact is demonstrated in the most satis- factory manner by the delicate experiments of Messrs. Becquerel and Breschet as follows. When one of the joinings (soudures) is kept uniformly at a temperature of 36° c. (97° F.). and the other is inserted into the biceps muscle with the arm extended, the magnetic needle was found to deviate about .10 of a degree. On the arm being bent, however, the amount of deviation was observed to increase suddenly to the extent of from one to two degrees. Waiting till the oscillation of the needle and its return are completed, if the arm be bent anew so as to give a fresh impulse to the needle for several times in succession, a deviation of fifteen degrees is obtained at length, equivalent to a difference of five degrees in comparison with the original deviation, and corresponding to an increase of about half a degree of tem- perature as measured by the centigrade scale. If the needle be inserted into the biceps, and the arm be used in the action of sawing for about five minutes, the temperature is observed to rise considerably, sometimes to the amount of a degree centigrade. In these researches, then, we have evidence of facts of which we could not have acquired any precise information by our ordinary means of investigation. Every one, indeed, knows that exercise warms the body ; but every one also sees that in producing this effect, besides the contraction of the voluntary muscles, exercise is accompanied by an acceleration in the mo- tions of the heart and organs of respiration. In this simultaneous concurrence of a variety of phenomena, it was impossible to distin- guish the share which each had in the general result. Such an analysis could only be made by an experiment of the delicate and ingenious description of that which has been detailed. It would appear that it is by the repetition of the muscular contraction after each relaxa- tion that the highest evolution of heat is ob- tained, each contraction producing a slight in- crease of temperature, which, with the addition of that which follows, mounts to a certain limited point which it cannot pass. Let us remark, however, that the mere persistence of a primary contraction ought to have the effect of causing or maintaining a temperature higher than that which is evolved by a contraction followed immediately by relaxation ; indeed it is now known that a permanent muscular con- traction is but a series and succession of smaller and imperceptible contractions, following each other with extreme rapidity. It were well to observe here, that neighbour- ing parts must increase in temperature at the same time much less in consequence of the direct communication of heat in virtue of con- tiguity than by the afflux of blood, which, transmitted to the muscles in larger quantity, must also be more copiously than usual dis- tributed to adjacent tissues. The relaxation of the muscles ought, on the other hand, to have a tendency to reduce the temperature, and this by so much the more as the relaxation is more complete. From all this it follows that the attitude and state of the body will be favours- 2 x