901 INSECTA. been described as being hollow in its interior, or forming " in itself a tube,"* which appears to have arisen from the circumstance of there existing in each, one or more large tracheal vessels, (Jig. 378, 6, e,) connected with the tracheae of the head, and which are divided, as they approach the extremity of the organ, into a great number of minute ramifications, but which have no communication with the external sur- face, their distribution being precisely similar to that of the trachea; in other parts of the body. The maxilla is composed of elementary parts, as in the preceding Orders, but they are not easily distinguished. The long extensile por- tion is the proper lacinia, which is constricted at its base, immediately beyond which is situ- ated, in Sphinx ligustri, a minute three-jointed hairy palpus (h). Mr. Newman could not de- tect this maxillary palpus in Sphinx,f and hence concluded that it was obsolete in this family. It is indeed exceedingly minute and easily overlooked, but is distinctly three-jointed, and densely covered with long hairs. The structure of the maxillae in different genera and species is particularly interesting, and their length is exceedingly various. Thus in the Sphingida, in Smerinthus ocellutus, which takes no food, they scarcely exceed one-eighth of an inch, while in Sphinx ligustri, which continues ho- vering on the wing while extracting the sweets from a flower, they are nearly two inches in length, and this is also the case in the hum- ming-bird moth, Macroglossa stellatarum. In the butterflies, and in many of the Nuc- tuida, they are often about equal to the length of the body. The inner or concave surface which forms the tube is lined with a very smooth membrane, and extends along the an- terior margin throughout the whole length of the organ, as in the transverse section, (fig. 378, 6, b.) At its commencement at the apex it occupies nearly the whole breadth of the organ, and is rather smaller than at its termi- nation near the mouth, where the concavity or groove does not occupy more than about one- third of the breadth. In some species the ex- tremity of each maxilla is furnished along its anterior and lateral margin with a great number of minute papillae, but in others these parts are entirely absent. They are extensively deve- loped in some of the butterflies, as in Vanessa atalanta, (Jig. 378, 1, 2, c,) in which they are little elongated barrel-shaped bodies, (4, c,) terminated by three smaller papillae, arranged around their anterior extremity, with a fourth one a little larger than the others placed in their centre. These papillae are arranged in two rows along the lateral and anterior surface of each maxilla, near its extremity, for about one-sixth part of its whole length, as at 1, and 5, c, d. There are seventy-four in each max- illa, or half of the proboscis. To judge from their structure, and from the circumstance that they are always plunged deeply into any fluid when the insect is taking food, they may pro- * Newman on the Head of Insects, p. 28. t Op. cit. p. 28. Fig. 378. Parts of the maxilla: or proboscis of Vanessa atalanta. 1, external surface of the apex with the double row of papilla; ; 2, internal or concave surface; a, transverse muscles; b, tube; c, papillae; d, hooks which join the maxillae; 3, one of the hooks; 4, one of the papillae ; 5, section of the tip of the maxillae, showing the position of the papillae on each side of thetube ; 6, section of maxillae near their base, showing the position of the tube, b; the large trachea, e, and the smaller one and nerve, f. bably be regarded as organs of taste. They are largely developed in this genus of insects, but in Pontia, the common white butterflies, and in Sphinx ligustri they are scarcely perceptible. There are also some curious appendages ar- ranged along the inner anterior margin of each maxilla, in the shape of minute hooks, which, when the proboscis is extended, serve to unite the two halves together. They were first no- ticed by Reaumur,* and subsequently by Mr. Kirby.f In many insects, as in Sphinx and Pontia, they have more the appearance of cilia, like the barbs of a feather, than of hooks, but in Vanessa they are falcated, and furnished with an additional tooth (3, d) a little beyond the apex. They are so exceedingly minute, and ar- ranged so closely together, that their true form is with difficulty distinguished. They lock across each other like the teeth in the jaws of some fishes, and we are inclined to believe that the points of the hooks in one-half of the pro- boscis are inserted, when the organ is extended, into little depressions between the teeth of the opposite side, so that they form the anterior surface of the canal, but of this we are not con- * Memoires, &c. torn. i. p. 125. $ Introduction, vol. i. p. 394.