GENERATION. 443 portant in this place. The male of some in- sects, it is well known, die as soon as they have fecundated the female ; many plants and ani- mals propagate only once, while others give rise to many successive families; but we are not acquainted with any general law to which such differences can be referred. Effects of castration.—Nothing illustrates in a more striking manner the intimate relation which the sexual function bears to the general organization and functions of the body than the effect of castration, or the removal of the forma- tive and essential parts of the sexual organs in either sex. When both the ovaries or testicles have been removed or destroyed, the power of propagation is of course entirely lost. When this operation is performed at an early age, there is also caused a remarkable alteration of the constitution and general habit of body of the animal. The functional and structural pe- culiarities of the body become less marked, and there is a great tendency in general to the uni- versal deposition of fat in different textures. In the castrated male, the form and texture of the body approaches that of the female, and the mental faculties seem to partake in a certain degree of a similar modification. The voice remains high and clear; and hence the barba- rous custom prevailing to the present day in Italy and elsewhere of making eunuchs for the sake of their high voices in singing. In the spayed female, on the other hand, there is a certain approach to the characters of the male. In women in whom it has been necessary to extract the ovaries on account of disease, the bones and muscles have been ob- served to have a more masculine contour, the voice is harsh like a man's, the breasts are flat, and there is frequently a formidable beard, and hair on different parts of the body. The same or similar circumstances have been remarked in those unfortunate malformed indi- viduals who present an approach to hermaphro- dite formation, or in whom there is imperfect development of either the male or female geni- tal organs. So also it has been observed that the females of some animals, as the sow, phea- sant, and pea-hen, and even the human species, when the period of life for propagation is passed, assume some of the male characteris- tics, such as the plumage in the birds men- tioned, bristles in the sow, &c. It is well known that the annual change of the horns in deer is intimately connected With the generative function. Mr. J. Hunter first shewed by experiment that when the deer are castrated while the horns are complete, they remain permanently and are not changed as in the natural condition ; and that, if the opera- tion be performed when the horns have fallen, they will not again be renewed. The operation of castration, particularly when it is not performed till late in life, while it pro- duces complete sterility in the female and im- potence in the male, does not entirely destroy sexual desire, for eunuchs and the castrated males of many animals are known to be lasci- vious. Some writers would even have us believe that it is possible for the power of propagation to remain in the male after castration. These cases appear extremely doubtful, and, even ad- mitting the truth of the statement that a cas- trated male has propagated, this by no means invalidates the statement that the removal of the testicles has destroyed all productive power, because it is possible that some seminal fluid may have been retained in the seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia. The operation does not prevent the erection of the penis or venereal orgasm from taking place; consequently the act of sexual union, and even some emission of fluid from the vesiculae seminales and prostatic body, may occur in the castrated animal; and in some kinds of animals, it may further be re- marked, that the union of such males with the females, though altogether unproductive, is attended with several of the more important changes which belong to fruitful sexual union, such as the excitement of the internal organs of the female, the discharge of vesicles from the ovary, and the formation of corpora lutea. The removal of one testicle or ovary only does not appear to be attended with any change in the sexual or other functions ; and it appears to be equally inconsistent with fact, that those originally provided with only one of these essential organs, are endowed with less procrea- tive power than others, as that those who are said to have had more than the usual number are remarkably salacious or fertile. 3. Sexual feeling.—In all animals in which the distinction of sex exists, the first act of the generative process or the union of the sexes is insured by instinctive feelings experienced by both of them in a greater or less degree. These feelings generally depend upon the con- dition of the body, and in particular of the genital organs, which at the time of pro- pagation are in a greater than ordinary state of excitement. From the increase of peculiar secretions, at the breeding season, the odour of the genital organs of animals becomes stronger than at other times, and seems to have a very direct effect in exciting the sexual appetite. These feelings are in the greater number of animals strongest in the male, and he conse- quently generally seeks the retiring female; but in other instances the reverse is the case. In the human species also, similar feelings exist, but under the control of the intellectual and moral powers of the mind. Hence the immense variety we observe in the effects of the exercise of the sexual passions on different peo- ple, and hence the various modifications which they undergo from the state of civilization among different nations; on the one hand being productive of scenes and habits of dis- gusting obscenity among those barbarous peo- ple whose propensities are unrestrained by mental cultivation ; and on the other, attended by social ties and higher intellectual ideas among those in whom, from education and the cultivation of the mind, the bodily appetites or passions, subject to the reason, assume a milder, less selfish, and more elevated character. Hence it comes that the various customs of different nations, legislative enactments of ancient and modern statesmen, and even some religious in- 2 o '2