212 FACE. The structure is compact, except near its upper and lower angles, where there is some cancellous tissue. Developement.—Its ossification commences in one piece about the fiftieth day, and is com- pleted at birth, when the bone appears thicker, and its orbitar plate larger in proportion than in the adult: its vertical diameter is, however, narrow, and the malar holes are large. The nasal bones (ossa nasi; Germ, die Nusenbeine) form the upper part of the nose, and are placed between the nasal pro- cesses of the upper maxillary and below the frontal bones, inclining from above downwards and forwards. They have two surfaces, and their form is quadrilateral, the vertical exceed- ing the transverse diameter. They are stout and narrow above, and thin and broader below. The anterior or cutaneous surface is smooth, covered by the integuments and pyramidalis muscle, concave from above downwards, con- vex transversely. An oblique hole for the passage of vessels is usually found above the centre of one or both nasal bones, and some smaller foramina are scattered over the surface. The posterior or pituitary surface is concave, narrow, especially above, and lined by the olfactory membrane, presenting grooves for vessels and the internal orifice of the canal (or hole) mentioned above. The borders are four: a superior, short, thick, dentated, inclined from above down- wards and backwards, and resting on the nasal notch of the frontal bone between its two in- ternal angular processes : the inferior border, longer than the preceding, thin, jagged, in- clining from the median line downwards and outwards, and generally presenting about its centre a slight notch for the passage for a fila- ment of the nasal nerve. This border forms the upper and front part of the anterior opening of the nasal fossa, and gives attachment to the lateral cartilages of the nose. The external border is the longest, and is cut obliquely for its articulation with the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone. The internal border is shorter, thick and rough above, and thin be- low : it forms, on the inner aspect of the bone, in conjunction with the corresponding part of the bone of the opposite side, a ridge and groove for the reception of the nasal process or spine of the frontal bone, and for the upper and anterior border of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid. Connexions. — The nasal bones articulate with each other, with the frontal, ethmoid, and upper maxillary bones, and with the lateral cartilages of the nose : they form a part of the cavity of the nose. Their structure is cancellous and thick above, thin and compact below. Developement.—They are perfectly ossified at birth, when they are proportionally longer than in the adult, corresponding in this respect with the depth of the orbit and the smallness of the anterior aperture of the nose. The ossifica- tion of each nasal bone commences by a single point about the beginning of the third month. The lachrymal bones (ossa unguis v. lachry- malia ; Germ, die Thrdnenbeine) are qua- drilateral in form, thin, semitransparent, and are situated on the anterior part of the inner wall of the orbit between the ethmoid, frontal, and upper maxillary bones ; they derive one of their names from the resemblance which they bear to a finger-nail. Each bone presents two surfaces and four borders. The external or orbitar surface is divided at its anterior third by a vertical crest, terminating below in a little curved process which forms the outer wall of the upper orifice of the nasal canal; in front of this crest the bone is per- forated with numerous little holes, and its sur- face is concave and forms with that of the nasal process of the upper maxilla the canal for the lachrymal sac. The posterior part of this surface is smooth, nearly flat, and is continuous with that of the os planum of the ethmoid, which lies immediately behind it. The internal or ethmoidal surface is rough, and is divided by a vertical groove, which corresponds to the crest on the orbitar aspect of the bone; the anterior division is convex and forms part of the middle meatus; the pos- terior division, is in contact with the ethmoid and contributes to close its cells. Of the four borders, the superior is the shortest and thickest; it is irregular and arti- culates with the inner border of the orbitar plate of the os frontis. The inferior is divided into two parts by the lower extremity of the crest already described on the anterior surface of the bone; in front of this the border de- scends along a thin process or angle of the bone, which is articulated with the inferior turbinated bone, and contributes to form the inner wall of the canal for the nasal duct; behind, this border is broad, and rests on the inner margin of the orbitar plate of the upper maxillary bone. The anterior border is slightly grooved for the reception of the inner margin of the posterior border of the nasal process belonging to the upper maxilla. The posterior border is thin and articulates with the anterior edge of the os planum. The os unguis has four angles, of which the anterior inferior is remarkable for its length. Connexions.—This bone articulates with the frontal, the upper maxillary, the ethmoid, and the inferior turbinated; it contributes to form part of the orbit of the cavity of the nose and of the groove for the lachrymo-nasal duct. It gives attachment to the reflected portion of the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and to the tendon of the tensor tarsi muscles. In structure it is thin and compact. Development.—It is complete at birth, ex- cept at its posterior superior angle, where there is a deficiency between it and the frontal and ethmoid bones, and where a separate piece is sometimes formed. It is broader from back to front in proportion, at this period of life, than in the adult, and its lachrymal groove is larger. Its ossification commences by a single point between the third and sixth months. A small lachrymal bone has been described as sometimes found at the lower part of the os unguis; and not unfrequently some separate