ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE IIIP-JOINT. 794 rates at its epiphysis from the neck of the bone, and the latter is drawn up, (fig. 311,) and the Fig. 311. whole limb shortened greatly, and the toes are as much everted as when fracture of the neck of the femur occurs from accident. The short- ening is usually, but not invariably, the pre- cursor of abscess ; when this occurs, the disease is in its fourth stage. This period, or that of of the formation of matter, is generally marked by an aggravation of the pain, by frequent spasms and startings of the muscles, by greater wasting of the limb, occasional oedema of the foot, (which is a very unpromising feature,) &c. These chronic symptomatic abscesses may present themselves in various directions; the matter may remain for months without under- going any change, and even after this be rather suddenly absorbed, or the pus may escape through openings made by nature or by art; the external orifices of these abscesses frequently degenerate into fistulas, from which exfolia- tions occasionally take place, and these exfolia- tions are sometimes so small as to be almost sabu- lous, sometimes larger pieces come away with pain ; such are to be considered not unfavoura- ble indications. The writer has known two ex- amples of the head of the femur thus separated at their epiphysis from the neck of the bones; in these cases the patients recovered, with the usual deformity.* Of the numerous situations around the hip-joint, in which matter has been found deposited, there is one variety which demands the special attention of surgeons, in conse- quence of the difficulty which has been expe- rienced in recognizing the disease, namely, the case in which the caries affects the bottom of the acetabulum, so that the fundus alone is de- stroyed. Sir B. Brodie met with one case, * One of these was presented to him by Mr. Shaw, the surgeon to the Clonard Dispensary, and is preserved in the Richmond School Museum ; the other was shewn by Dr. Carlile lately to the Patho- logical Society, Dublin. where in the bottom of the acetabulum there was an ulcerated opening, just large enough to admit a common probe, communicating with an abscess within the pelvis. Mr. Tagart* alludes also to a case in which this perforation exists. (Figs. 312 and 313.) Of such per- Fig. 312. Fig. 313. * Lancet, vol. i. 1SJ35 and 6, Jan. 2.