INSECTA. 965 size of different parts of the nervous system is effected is in full accordance with the recently developed facts of Ehrenberg and others re- specting the tubular nature of the primary nervous fibres. Atforty-eight hours, (Jig. 423,9) the whole of the cords have regained the longitudinal direc- tion, and the seventh ganglion, which had begun to be decreased in size at the last period, has now also entirely disappeared, and its nerves, like those of the fifth and sixth, come from the cord, while the ganglia of the thorax are ac- quiring a great size. Fig. 423. Forty-eight hours. Fifty-eight hours. At fifty-eight hours (10) a further change has been effected. The second and third tho- racic ganglia have united, and the double gan- glion thus formed is only separated from the Jarger thoracic mass composed of the fourth, fifth, and part of the sixth ganglia, by the short but greatly enlarged cords which pass, as before noticed, on each side of the central attachment of the muscles. The transverse plexus are united with the nerves to the wings, and the whole of these gangliated portions of cord have been carried forwards, and now occupy the middle portion of the immensely enlarged meso-thorax. The optic and antennal nerves have nearly attained their full development, and those numerous and most intricate plexus of nerves in the three thoracic segments of the larva form only a few trunks, which can hardly be recognized as the same structures. The arrangement of the whole nervous system is now nearly as it exists in the perfect insect. The whole of these important changes are thus seen to take place within the first three days after the insect has undergone its metamor- phosis; and they precede those of the alimentary canal, generative system, and other organs, which are still very far from being completed, and indeed, as compared with the nervous sys- tem, have made but little progress. Such is the rapidity of these changes, as ob- served by us in June, 1832, in a species that usually undergoes its metamorphosis from the larva to the perfect state in about fourteen days. On repeating our observation on the same insect in the following August, when, from the in- creased temperature of the season, the whole of the changes in the body were completed in about eight days, we did not observe that these had become much accelerated, although the changes in the other structures were hastened. The whole of these phenomena are induced by an alteration which takes place in the external tegument, and the permanent contraction of the longitudinal and diagonal muscles of the body, by means of which the anterior margin of one segment is drawn beneath the posterior of that which immediately precedes it. This is carried to a greater or less extent in the diffe- rent segments, and the nervous cord being in consequence rendered too long to lie in a direct line, a disposition is thus induced in its va- rious parts to coalesce. Organs of Nutrition.—-The chief organs of nutrition in insects, the alimentary canal and its appendages, assume a variety of forms in the different classes, and undergo changes al- most as remarkable as those of the nervous system. From being scarcely more than a simple elongated tube, with a few slight en- largements in its course, as in some of the apodal Hymenoptera, the alimentary canal be- comes in the perfect individual a long convo- luted organ, thick, muscular, and divided into several compartments, each of which is adapted to a peculiar function, but subservient to the more general one of assimilating the food re- ceived, into one homogeneous material, fitted for the nourishment of the whole body. But whatever be its particular form, the alimentary canal may be regarded as composed of three distinct coats or tissues, which we shall dis- tinguish as the external orperitonaal, the middle or muscular, and the internal or mucous. The peritonaal coat, or layer, is an exceed- ingly transparent, white, shining, and delicate membrane, and is observed only with great difficulty. It covers the outer surface of the muscular coat throughout the whole course of the canal, and, as we are strongly induced to believe, although we have not positively ascer- tained it, is continuous with and reflected along the tracheal vessels that ramify on the stomach, and forms their external covering. We have never been able to detach it from the muscular coat, which it completely invests, and to which it closely adheres, but we have seen it most distinctly in recently killed insects, more particularly in the Apidtc, as in Antho- phora return, when the canal has been removed from the body and viewed by transmitted light. It is then seen most distinctly extending along the sides of the canal, directly across the angles formed by the contraction of some part of the muscular coat, where this is thrown into folds or depressions. The muscular, or middle coat, is very strongly marked. It is composed of transverse and longi- tudinal fibres, interlaced with each other, and also of a series of oblique fibres, which, as shewn by Lyonet in the Cossus, sometimes in part form the retractoresventriculi muscles, that assist to retain the canal in its proper position in the body, and connect it with the whole muscular system. Burmeister states,* that distinct transverse and * Op. cit. (trans,) p. 121.