663 ANIMAL HEAT. direction we are considering. We have seen that with a decrease in the size of adult Mam- malia the circulatory and respiratory motions were progressively accelerated, and that by this means the disadvantages as regards cooling in consequence of a smaller relative size of the body, are in some measure compensated, some- times, indeed, we have seen the balance in- clined the other way, and the greater rapidity of the motions more than compensate for the diminished size of the body. Great rapidity of the respiratory and circulatory motions may co-exist with other organic conditions having an opposite tendency as regards temperature ; and, according to the relations of these, and as the one or the other predominates, we may have two different states of temperature in early life. This proposition is even made ap- parent when we compare the constitution in early youth and in adult age. In early life the celerity of the motions has led to the belief that all the functions of nutrition were pecu- liarly active. But strength or energy is not always an accompaniment of simple celerity; on the contrary rapidity is generally indicative of absence of power. It is quite true that in early life not only are circulation and respira- tion, but digestion, assimilation, and growth likewise, much more rapid than in the adult state. But does it follow from this thut the materials of the blood are elaborated in the same degree of perfection, or that the products of the action and contact of this fluid, the vaiious tissues, &c. of the body, are all as com- pletely formed ? Everything conduces to make us believe that the reverse is the case. If on the one hand rapidity of movement be a cha- racter of early life, weakness is a feature still more manifest. If the nervous system there- fore, although acting rapidly, is less energetic, in the same proportion there may be an age at which the influence of this weakness on the production of heat may be manifest. And, as the weakness is greater as the being is younger, it is in the very earliest periods of independent existence that this relation must be inves- tigated. Now such a relationship does aclually exist, although an opinion to the contrary had always been entertained until direct experi- ments settled the question definitively. These experiments were performed by the writer, and a summary of them is here given. If the temperature of new-born puppies lying beside their mother be taken, it will be found from one to three degrees inferior to that of the parent. The same thing obtains in regard to the young of the rat, the rabbit, the guinea-pig, &c. and is probably universal among the Mam- malia. Among Birds the same circumstance presents itself in a still more marked degree. If they be taken out of the nest in the first week or even fortnight of their existence, the difference of temperature extends to from 2° to 5° c. between the young and the parents. The fact has been ascertained in regard to the sparrow, the swallow, the martin, the sparrow- hawk, the magpie, the thrush, the starling, fcc. &c, and is probably, as among Mammalia, universal. Whence we may conclude that the phenomenon is general as regards warm-blooded animals. We might have taken it for granted that man was comprised within the category, but it is just as well to have the assurance that he forms no exception to the law, that he has no peculiar privilege in this respect. To have a precise term of comparison, the temperature of twenty adults was taken at the same time, the thermometer being applied in the axilla. The temperature of these twenty persons varied between 35°, 5 and 37° c. (96° and 99° F.); the mean term was therefore 36°, 12 (97° F.). The temperature of ten infants varying from a few hours to two days in age, ascertained in the same manner,varied between 34° and 35° 5 c. (93°, 5 and 96° F.). The mean was there- fore 34°, 75 c. (about 94°, 5 F.). There was consequently a difference of nearly two degrees between the temperature of the adult and of the newly born babes. Man is therefore proved to be subjected to the same law here as ani- mals having warm blood in general, the young of which, so far as they have been examined, and we may presume universally, are inferior in temperature to their parents. There are, therefore, two periods in youth at which the bodily temperature differs from that of the adult age. These may be distinguished as the first and second periods of infancy or youth. The first extends from birth to an in- definite period, but which is nearer or more remote from the period of birth in different cases. The second is included between the fourth and the fourteenth year; the limits can- not be more accurately determined. In the first the temperature is lower than in adult age, in the second it is higher The differences of temperature in the first age of infancy, and the adult age, although very sensible and impor- tant as regards the economy, are indices of a difference incomparably greater than their numerical indication might be taken to imply. In fact, if the manner of observing be altered, results of so extraordinary a character are come to as to surpass all expectation. To deve- lope these the temperature of the newly born being must not be taken only when it is in contact with its mother. If, after having as- certained the temperature of a puppy in this position, it be removed from the mother and kept isolated, the temperature will be found to fall rapidly; and this phenomenon takes place not only when the air is cold, but when it is mild. The phenomenon does not commence after a term; it is apparent from the moment the separation takes place, and is very sensi- ble after the lapse of a few minutes. The fol- lowing is the rate of cooling of a puppy twenty- four hours old, the external temperature being 13° c. (about 55°, 5 F.), taken at intervals of ten minutes; the series of course represents the successive losses of temperature in the course of the small intervals of time indicated : —temperature in commencing the observations 36°, 87 c; the declensions in temperature at intervals of ten minutes successively, 0°, 63 1°, 12, 1°,38, 1°,25, 1°,29, 0°, 87, 1°,63, 0°, 25, 1°, 0; in thirty-five minutes the tem- perature declined farther 1°, 25; in thirty-five