HEARING. 571 No conclusions can be derived from the experiments of Flourens with respect to the functions of the several parts of the labyrinth. The effects of disease had already sufficiently indicated the relative importance of the dif- ferent parts of the ear, and even to a certain extent of those of the labyrinth. Thus we knew that stoppage or destruction of the ex- ternal parts does no more than impair the sense of hearing, and that so long as the labyrinth remains perfect, or at least the vestibule, the sense is not destroyed. Sound may be con- veyed to the auditory nerve through the bones of the head, as may be proved by the sen- sation of sound produced by the application of a tuning-fork in vibration to the teeth or to some one of the cranial bones. By a parity of reasoning, Flourens having successively de- stroyed the several parts of the ear in pigeons, inferred that the nervous expansion in the ves- tibule was the part of the organ most essential to audition : " that in strictness, it is the only indispensable part, for all the others may be removed; yet if this continue, audition is not destroyed." Partial destruction of the nervous expansion in the vestibule only partially destroys the sense, and complete destruction of this ex- pansion involves total deafness. The vestibule may be laid open without any very considerable alteration in the sense; but rupture of the semi- circular canals rendered the hearing confused and painful, and was moreover accompanied with a quick and violent tossing of the head.* One can scarcely imagine vivisections less likely to lead to useful results than those which involve the exposure of the deep-seated internal parts of the ear, a dissection which even on the dead subject demands no ordinary skill; nor can we refrain from expressing our opinion that had M. Flourens never attempted these experiments, physiology would have been none the worse, and our respect for his hu- manity would have been all the greater. II. Of the accessory parts of the organ.— We shall consider in succession the parts which the external ear—the tympanum, its membrane and ossicles, and the Eustachian tube, play in the process of audition. The external ear may be regarded as consist- ing of two parts, the auricle and the meatus auditorius externus. The complete develope- ment of the former is found only in Mammi- ferous animals, and exists pretty generally throughout the class ; with, however, consider- able diversity of form, varying from an almost flat cartilaginous lamella, scarcely at all under the influence of its muscles, to an elongated funnel-shaped ear-trumpet, very moveable and completely at the command of numerous large muscles. Man and the Quadrumana are at one extremity of this scale ; the Solipeds, Rumi- nants, and Cheiroptera at the other. Some, pressure of the stapes must serve to moderate the tension of the fluid within the vestibule, which serves to convey the impression. The cochlea seems to be pretty evidently a micrometer of sound.—See Med. Lit. p. 98. * Conditions do l'Audition in Experiences sur lc Systeme nervcux, p. 49. Par. 1825. however, are devoid of the auricle, as the mole, the zemni-rat, the mole-rat, the seal, the walrus, &c. It is said that those animals which are remarkable for the large developement of the auricle are almost all timid or nocturnal, and consequently require an acute sense of hearing. That the auricle performs the office of an acoustic instrument to collect and reinforce the sounds which fall upon it, cannot be doubted in those cases in which it is large and fully developed, as in the horse, ass, &c. Here, indeed, we see that the animal employs it as we might expect such an instrument would be used; the open part is directed towards the quarter whence the sound comes, and continues so directed as long as the animal appears to listen. So far, however, from this part being mainly the instrument for enabling the animal to judge of the direction of sound, it appears to me that it cannot be applied to its full use until the direction of the sound has been in some mea- sure determined ; until the hearing-trumpet has been favourably placed with respect to the quarter whence the sound emanates, its value is not fully experienced. If we watch the movements of the auricle of a horse, we shall see that he uses it altogether for concentrating sounds from particular quarters: when he moves it about quickly, it often seems as if he were feeling for sounds coming from certain direc- tions, having already acquired a tolerable notion, if I may so speak, as to what those directions are. Treviranus,* however, thinks that the reinforcement of the sound is not its principal use: " to what end," he asks, " have its various eminences and depressions been formed, if it have no other use than this, and why are these particularly developed in the human ear, which can have little or no in- fluence as an ear-trumpet in increasing the influence of sounds?" He supposes that in the lower animals, but especially in man, the auricle serves more for forming a judgment respecting the direction of sounds than for assisting in hearing. We cannot understand in what way the fixed auricle of man can aid for this purpose, being almost immoveable, and in- deed altogether so for the purposes of collect- ing sonorous undulations from different quar- ters; nor indeed does it appear that the opinion in question of Treviranus is any thing more than a mere hypothesis. A remark of Mr. Gough, the author of a highly interesting paper in the Manchester Memoirs " on the method of judging by the ear of the position of sonorous bodies," offers a strong argument against this notion. He observes that what- ever may be the direction of a sound in the open air, as soon as it enters the auditory pas- sage, it is compelled to follow the course of that duct until it reaches the apparatus in which the sense of hearing resides.f The experimental researches of Savart throw some light upon the function of this part of the auditory apparatus.} These experiments * Loc. cit. B. ii. p. 137. t Manchester Memoirs, New Series, vol. v. X Majeudie's Journal dc Physiologic, torn. iv.