271 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. cularly and accurately described by Palletta.* They are distinguished by the latter into supe- rior and inferior, being attached to the eras cerebelli, one above and behind the other, and they are frequently separated from each other at their attachment by an interval of one or two lines or more. In such case the superior root is superior and parallel to the inner side of the greater packet, while the inferior is in- ternal to it, and, it may be, on a level with its inferior surface; hence, in such instances, the greater packet corresponds to the interval be- tween the roots of the lesser, and the inferior root of the lesser, in its course from the brain, is placed at first along the inner side of the greater packet, while the superior descends internal to the greater packet, and joins the inferior beneath it to constitute the lesser packet. This is not, however, uniformly the relation of the roots of the nerve at their at- tachment to the crus, for the distance at which they are placed from each other varies very much; in some instances the roots of the lesser packet are perfectly distinct and separated by the interval mentioned, the inferior being either in immediate contact with the greater packet, and even entering the crus through the same aperture, or being separated from it by an interval varying, according to J. F. Meckel, from a quarter of a line to a line; while in others the roots of the lesser packet are not manifestly distinct, but the fasciculi of which they consist are attached to the crus in an un- interrupted series reaching, from the attachment of the greater packet, to within a line or less of the posterior face of the crus, and separated the one from the other by trifling intervals; in the latter case the lesser packet is, for the most part, altogether superior to the greater at their attachment. But even in this the lesser is still distinguishable into two sets of fasciculi, which take different routes through the substance of the crus, one traversing it nearer to its ante- rior, the other to its posterior surface. It has been already stated that the lesser packet of the nerve is characterized by the absence of a ganglion; it also has no connexion with the ganglion of the larger packet, but passes it without entering into it, and then becomes attached to one of the trunks proceeding from it; it is further maintained to be distributed ultimately into those branches which are given by the third division of the fifth to the muscles of mastication. Palletta-I concluded from these circumstances that it was a nerve distinct from the remainder of the fifth ; and observing that the superior root was principally consumed in the temporal muscle, and the inferior in the buccinator, forming the long buccal nerve, he called the former the " crotaphitic," and the latter the " buccinator" nerves. The distri- bution of the leaser packet to the muscles of mastication has been confirmed by Mayo ]; from * Pallet'.a, De Nervis crotaphitico et buccina- torio, an. 1784. Script. Neurol. Min. Select. Lud- wig. t Op. cit. t Commentaries, and Physiology. the dissection of the nerve in the ass. He differs, however, from Palletta with regard to its distribution to the buccinator, which he denies: this point will come under considera- tion again. It has been proposed by Eschncht* to denominate it the masticatory nerve. The place at which the nerve is attached to the surface of the brain in the human subject is to be regarded only as the point at which it enters or emerges from the substance of the organ, inasmuch as it can be, without difficulty, followed to a much deeper part, and the fibres of the crus, which are transverse to those of the nerve, manifestly separate from each other, at the entrance of the nerve, to allow it a passage. The larger packet of the nerve is that whose course into the brain can be most easily traced; this circumstance depends partly upon the greater size of the packet, and partly upon the fact that, for the most part, its tracts are not separated from each other by those of the crus, but traverse that part in a body, the fibres of the crus seeming to be simply laid in apposi- tion with it, and connected to it by some deli-, cate medium ; while those of the lesser are, in the greater number of instances, separated from each other, or even interlaced with those of the crus; hence the fibres of the crus may be easily raised, without injury to the nerve, from the larger packet, and its course be displayed, while the lesser cannot be followed but with difficulty. The larger is, however, subject to variety in the latter respect; in many instances the fasciculi of the crus do traverse and divide it, and very frequently near its ultimate attach- ment, and this circumstance, when it occurs, renders the pursuit of its course more difficult; but even here the fasciculus merely traverses it, and its tracts are not permanently separated, but reunite after the fasciculus has passed. The course of the packet may be exposed to a considerable extent even in the recent brain ; but for the satisfactory determination of the point, it is necessary that the brain be prepared by some of the methods recommended for that purpose, of which immersion in strong spirit is by far the best, nor does it require much time, for the substance will be found to separate more easily when it has acquired only a certain degree of firmness, than when hardened to the degree which long immersion produces; the plan which the author has found most success- ful has been to commence the dissection early, to return to it frequently, and at each time to pursue it so far and so far only as it was satis- factory. The course of the larger packet is also beneath and before that of the lesser, and hence, in the usual mode of dissection,in which the brain is reversed, it presents itself first. Its direction is backward, downward, and in- ward, toward the upper extremity of the spinal bulb; in its course the packet first traverses the middle crus of the cerebellum from its an- terior toward its posterior surface, and from its superior toward its inferior margin ; it pursues this course until it has reached the back of the crus, and descended so low as its inferior mar- * Journal de Physiologie, t. vi.