124 ENTOZOA. form substances are elongated bodies of a moderately firm, solid, homogeneous texture, varying in length from four to eight inches; attenuated at both extremities; having the diameter of a line half-way between the ex- tremities and the middle part, where the body is contracted and abruptly bent upon itself. Some are irregularly trigonal, others tetragonal. In the three-sided specimens one surface is broad, convex, and smooth; the other two are narrow and concave, and separated by a nar- row longitudinal groove, in which is sometimes lodged a filamentary brown concretion. In the tetragonal portions the broad smooth sur- face is divided into two parts by the rising of the middle part of the convexity into an angle. The most remarkable appearance in these am- biguous productions is the beautiful crenation of one of the angles or ridges between the convex and concave facet; which, from its regularity and constancy, can hardly be ac- counted for on the theory of their nature and origin suggested by Rudolphi: ' lymphamque in canalibus fistulosis coactam passimque com- pressam filum inrequale efformare crediderim.'* On the other hand it is equally difficult to form any satisfactory notion of these substances as organized bodies growing by an inherent and independent vitality. We have not been able to observe a single example in vhich the substance had both extremities well defined and unbroken; these, on the contrary, are flattened, membranous, and more or less jagged and irregular. They present no trace of ali- mentary or generative orifices on any part of their exterior surface, nor any canals subser- vient to those functions, in the interior paren- Fig. 70. Spiroptera hominis. (* Natural sixe.) per catheterem ex vesica pauperculs educta, ne- quaquam talia habenda sunt. Corpuscula sunt plus minus globosa, tertiam lineae partem diametro superantia, duriuscula, forcipi comprimenti reni- tentia, dissecta solida visa, quominus pro hydalulis haberi possint, quales pritno suspicatus sum. Con- crcmenta; sunt lymphatica in vesica imorbosa ex humoribus alienatis ibidem secretis, simili forsan inodo acarenula; ex lolio pra;cipitata."—Rudolphi, Synops. Entoz. p. 251. * Ibid. p. 252. chyma. If subsequent observations on re- cently expelled specimens of these most curious and interesting productions should, however, establish their claims to be regarded as Entozoa, they will probably rank as a sim- ple form of Sterelmint/ia.* The existence of the Spiroptera Hominis is founded on the observation of substances very different from the preceding productions. The specimens so called were transmitted to Ru- dolphi, in a separate phial, at the same time with the ova and larger parenchymatous bodies above described, and are presumed to have been expelled from the same female under the same circumstances. They consisted of six small Nematoid worms of different sexes; the males (fig. 70*) were eight, the females ten lines in length, slender, white, highly elastic. The head (</, fig. 70) truncated, and with one or two papillaa; the mouth orbicular, the body attenuated at both extremities, but espe- cially anteriorly. The tail in the female thicker, and with a short obtuse apex; that of the male more slender, and emitting a small mesial tubulus (c), probably the sheath of the penis: a dermal aliform production near the same extremity determines the reference of this Entozoon to the genus Spiroptera. There are no specimens of this Entozoon among the substances discharged from the urethra of the female, whose case is above alluded to, which are preserved in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. The following parasite of the urinary appar ratus, concerning which no obscurity or doubt prevails, is the Strongylus gigas (fig. 71), the giant not only of its genus but of the whole class of cavitary worms. This species is de- veloped in the parenchyma of the kidney itself, and occasionally attains the length of three feet, with a diameter of half an inch. A worm of nearly this magnitude, which oc- cupied the entire capsule of the left kidney, of the parenchyma of which it had occasioned the total destruction, is preserved in the. collec- tion of the Royal College of Surgeons. The male Strongylus gigas is less than the female, and is slightly attenuated at both ex- tremities. The head («) is obtuse, the mouth orbicular, and surrounded by six hemispherical papillae (a); the body is slightly impressed with circular striae, and with two longitudinal impressions ; the tail is incurved in the male, and terminated by a dilated pouch orbursa, from the base of which the single intromittent spi- culum (6) projects. In the female the caudal extremity is less attenuated and straighter, with the anus (c) a little below the apex: the vulva (d,fig. 95) is situated at a short distance from the anterior extremity. The Strongylus gigas is not confined to the Human Subject, but more frequently infests the kidney of the Dog, Wolf, Otter, Raccoon, Glutton, Horse, and Bull. It is generally of a dark blood-colour, which seems to be owing * These bodies are figured in the excellent ac- count of the present anomalous case by Mr. Law- rence, in the Medico - Chirurgical Transactions, vol. ii. pi. 8, p. 385.