213 FACE, pieces are found at its angles, formed either from the ethmoid or from the orbitar plate of the upper maxillary bone. The inferior turbinated bones, (ossa spongiosa v. turbinata infima; Germ, die untern Muschel- beine) of an oval form, thin and spongy in their appearance, are placed horizontally along the lower part of the outer wall of the nasal cavities, separating the middle from the inferior meatus, and contributing to increase the surface of the nose. Each bone presents two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The internal surface is rough, convex, and looks towards the septum of the nose, which it sometimes touches on one side when that partition inclines more than usually to the right or left. The external surface is concave, exhibiting many small fossae or pits; it looks towards the upper maxilla and forms a part of the inferior meatus. Both surfaces are very irregular or spongy and are pitted by vessels, but especially by veins, which ramify abundantly upon them. The inferior border is convex and thick, particu- larly at its centre, where it descends towards the floor of the nose. The vpper border is thin and irregular, and presents from before backwards, 1. a thin edge, which is attached to the inferior turbinated crest on the nasal process of the upper maxilla; 2. a process (the lachrymal) which ascends towards the curved process of the os unguis, with which and with the adjacent part of the upper jaw-bone it unites to complete the canal for the nasal duct; 3. some irregular projections (ethmoidal pro- cesses) which ascend and unite with the ethmoid ; 4. a thin, curled, dog's-ear-looking process (the auricular or maxillary), which, descending and overhanging the internal sur- face of the bone, is attached to the lower part of the opening of the antrum, which it con- tributes to circumscribe ; 5. an edge which is articulated with the inferior turbinated crest of the palate-bone. The orifice of the antrum is situated just above the centre of this border, and opens consequently into the middle mea- tus. The extremities or angles are formed by the union of the two borders ; the posterior extre- mity is more pointed than the anterior. Connexions.— Each inferior turbinated is united with four other bones, viz. the uppe* maxillary, the lachrymal, the ethmoid, and Jip palate. It is covered with the pituitary me"ui- brane; it contributes to enlarge the surface of the nasal cavity, and to form a part of nasal canal and middle and lower meatus. Its structure is compact. Its development commences at the fifth montti by a single point of ossification. The vomer (Germ, das Pflugscharbein) is of a quadrilateral figure, and resembles a ploughshare; it is a single and symmetrical bone, situated in the median plane, and forming the posterior and inferior part of the septum nasi. It has two lateral surfaces and four borders. The surfaces, which are right' and left, are smooth, flat, and lined by the pitui- tary membrane; sometimes, when the bone inclines much to either side of the nose, one of these surfaces is convex and the other concave ; they present an oblique groove or grooves for the naso-palatine nerves and vessels. The superior border (or surface) is broad, and may be termed the base of the bone; it presents a deep groove in the middle, which receives the rostrum of the sphenoid, and on each side of this are two plates or lamina? (sometimes called the alee) which are received into fissures of the sphenoid on each side of the rostrum, and which contribute to form a longitudinal canal for the ethmoidal vessels. The anterior border is oblique from above downwards and forwards; above it presents a deep groove, which is a continuation of that on the upper border, and which receives the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid: below, this border is nearly flat, where it is united to the middle cartilage of the nose. The inferior border is the longest, and is received into the grooved crest formed by the united palatine plates of the superior maxillary and palate bones; in front this border extends as far as the anterior nasal spine. The posterior border, thick above, thin be- low, is oblique, slightly curved, and forms the partition between the two posterior openings of the nose. Connexions.-—The vomer is connected with four bones, viz. the sphenoid and ethmoid above, the superior maxillary and palate below : it is covered with the pituitary membrane, and forms, with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid and the middle cartilage, the septum of the nose. Its structure is compact, and it is formed of two thin lateral plates, which are distinct above, but united inferiorly. Its development occurs by a single ossific point about the third month, and at birth it is completely ossified. The os maxillare informs (Germ, das untere Kiunbackenbein, oder der Unterkiefor). This single bone, which alone forms the lower jaw, occupies the lower and lateral parts of the face ; it is a flat, symmetrical bone, and bears some resemblance in shape to a horse-shoe. It con- sists of a middleor horizontal portion (the body), and of two lateral ascending branches (the rami), which are connected with the body nearly at right angles. The body is curved, nearly horizontal, in- clining from before backwards, and a little upwards, and presents two surfaces and two ^orders. The anterior surface is convex, and has in the centre a vertical line (crista mentulis ex- terna), which marks the union of the two hai - as >.f which the bone consists in the young subject: this line terminates below in a tri- angular t.ninence (the mental process). The v$;, a .-u direction of the lower jaw at the sym- pl i , and its curved figure anteriorly, form- ii ; h it is termed the chin, are both charac- terise of the human race. From the angles J in' mental process arises on each side the -external oblique line, faintly marked in front, but becoming distinct as it ascends diagonally