ENDOSMOSIS. 104 circumstance that the excesses of density of each of these saline solutions over the density of water are in the ratio of 2 to 1, or to this, —that the excesses in the power of capillary ascent of each of these saline solutions over the power of capillary ascent of water are in the ratio of 2 to 1 ? In other words, is it the re- spective density of the two fluids which regu- lates or determines their endosmosis, or is it the respective powers of capillary ascension of the fluids severally ? The following experiment will solve this question. We have seen above that a solution of sulphate of soda and a solution of hydro- chlorate of soda of equal densities being put in relation to pure water, produce endosmoses which are in the relation of two to one. Here the difference of density does not interfere with the regulation of the endosmosis; we must then see if it be regulated by the power of capillary ascension. I prepared a solution of sulphate of soda and one of hy drochlorate of soda, having the same density 1.085, and tested their ca- pillary ascension in the same tube in which we have seen pure water raised to a height of 12 lines at a temperature of + 10 degrees R. I found that in the same tube and at the same temperature the capillary ascension of the so- lution of sulphate of soda was of 8 lines, and that of the solution of hydrochlorate of soda was of 10 lines. The excess of the capil- lary ascension of water above that of the solu- tion of sulphate of soda is consequently 4; the excess of the capillary ascension of water above the solution of hydrochlorate of soda is 2. These two excesses are in the relation of two to one, a relation which also measures the endosmosis produced with the concurrence of water by each of these two solutions of equal density. The result of this is that the capillary ascension, or power of capillary ascent, of fluids governs their endosmosis, and that their density only intervenes in this case as the determining cause of their capillary ascension. But how does the capillary action operate here ? This ap- pears to be difficult to determine. The capillary action never carries fluids out of the canals in which it takes place; how then apply this action to the phenomenon of double permeation, which takes place in endosmosis and exosmosis ? This double permeation, which carries two he- terogeneous fluids towards each other, seems as though it were the result of the reciprocal attraction of the two fluids, of their tendency to associate by admixture. In experiments of endosmosis made with a dense fluid and water, the tendency to mix is favoured by the respec- tive positions of the two .fluids; the dense fluid is above and the water below. This dis- position may possibly be one cause which fa- vours the reciprocal mixture of the two fluids, whose specific gravity would tend to place them in an inverse situation to that given them in the experiment. This does not take place when experiments on endosmosis are made with alcohol and water; then the alcohol, spe- cifically lighter than water, is situated above this latter fluid, and, notwithstanding this, the endosmosis is exceedingly energetic; we must then acknowledge that the specific gravity of two fluids has not here the degree of influence that might be supposed to belong to it at first sight. We have consequently no means left to explain the course of the two fluids towards each other athwart the capillary canals of the parti- tion which separates them, but their reciprocal attraction or tendency to admixture. In ad- mitting that such is the efficient cause of this double permeation we must also necessarily admit that this efficient cause is governed in its operation by the capillary action of the par- tition. Here another question presents itself,—do the two fluids accomplish their admixture in the capillary canals themselves, or do they cross the partition by different capillary canals, so that neither fluid mixes with its opposite fluid until the moment of its exit from the capillary canals ? On the latter hypothesis it were necessary to admit that the number and diameter of the capillary canals followed sepa- rately by each of the two fluids must be per- fectly equal, for, without that, how would the general result of this double permeation, a result which is explained by the quantity of endosmo- sis, be in exact relation with the capillary action on the two fluids ? Now it is repugnant to reason to admit any such perfect equality among all the capillary canals, or to suppose an equal number especially fitted for the transmission of each of the two fluids. It must then necessarily be allowed that the transmission of the two op- posite fluids takes place by the same capillary canals, and that consequently this double movement of transmission takes place by a reciprocal penetration of the two fluids. The preceding theory, with which I was at one time inclined to rest satisfied, and which, indeed, seemed to be based on a sufficiently firm foundation, was however brought into jeo- pardy by a discovery which I made subse- quently, in regard to the phenomena of endos- mosis exhibited by certain acids separated from pure water by a layer of animal mem- brane. In the earliest experiments I made on the endosmosis of the acids, I observed a number of anomalous phenomena, for which I felt my- self incompetent to assign any sufficient reason. I had always placed the acids above the water, from which they were separated by a layer of animal membrane. Certain acids, such as the hydrochloric, at very different degrees of den- sity, and nitric acid only at pretty high degrees of density, gave me an endosmosis, the current of which was directed from the inferior water towards the superior acid, so that the acid rose gradually in the tube of the endosmometer. On the other hand, I had always found the sulphuric acid pretty largely diluted, and the hydrosulphuric acid, under the same circum- stances as the acids mentioned above, gradually to sink in the tube of the endosmometer. I con- cluded from this that, these acids did not occasion any endosmosis, and that they passed mechani- cally, and merely in virtue of their gravity, athwart the animal membrane to mingle with the water. I had also found that the sulphuric