INSECTA. 926 call it, ossification of the entire organs, and not in any difference in their normal condition. In every instance the anterior pair of wings, or elytra, like the posterior pair, are formed of numerous tracheae, accompanied by circulatory canals extensively ramifying throughout their whole structure, as may be well seen in the imperfectly solidified wings of Orthoptera and Hemiptera, and in the perfectly formed ones of many of the Coleoptera, although it has some- times been supposed that the elytra are entirely destitute of these structures.* Excepting in a few instances, as in the Strepsiptera,t the elytra are almost entirely motionless during flight, and are either simply elevated or directed horizon- tally in order that they may not impede the motions of the true wings. Thus the number and condition of the parts employed in flight are seen to vary in different insects. In Co- leoptera the posterior wings alone are actively employed, in Neuroptera and Hymenoptera both the anterior and posterior, but in Hymen- optera the latter are smaller and less important than the former, while in Diptera the posterior are reduced to mere appendages of the atrophied meta-thorax, and the office of flight devolves entirely upon the anterior pair, which are the only ones developed for such purpose. On the other hand, in some species, instead of a reduc- tion in the number of these parts, there is an evident tendency to repetition, as is beautifully shown in the existence of two circular mem- branous appendages or winglets (alula) deve- loped at trie inner angles of the elytra, and continuous with the delicate membrane that lines the under surface in the great Hi/dr'uus and the Dyticida. Similar appendages are observed in the posterior wings of some Lepi- doptera and Hymenoptera, and in the proper wings of some Diptera. The non-developement of the posterior wings in Diptera evidently seems to be the natural result of the excessive developement of the meso-thoracic segment, which bears the proper wings, the analogues of the anterior pair in Hymenoptera, and the con- sequent atrophied condition of the adjoining meta-thoracic segment, from which a posterior pair ought to have been developed. But that all insects, even the Diptera, have primarily the same number of these organs, is exemplified in this order in the existence of a pair of appendages to the meta-thorax, in the form of little club-shaped bodies denominated halteres or poisers, and which exist modified in form in every Dipterous insect. In the common gnat they are simple footstalks surmounted by a round knob, attached one on each side of the atrophied meta-thorax. This is their form in the house-fly and many other genera. That these are the proper representatives of the posterior pair of wings is now the opinion of the most recent observers, and is most decidedly confirmed by the results of our own examinations. They are generally more or less concealed beneath the winglets, from which they are perfectly dis- tinct, being always connected with the meta- * Westwood, Text Book, p. 283. t Dale in Curtis's British Entomology, fol. 226. thorax, while the winglets are attached to the scutellum of the meso-thorax, and in some instances, as in Tubanus bovimis, are continu- ous with the margin of the meso-thoracic wings. The articulations of the wings are formed upon the same principles as those of the legs, but are more simple in their construction. Those at the proximal extremity of the cubital ner- vures, or pterigostia, are of a somewhat cotyloid form to allow of free motion in several direc- tions, and often, as in those at the base of the elytra, are furnished with a long spine or process, to which some of the powerful muscles are attached. Those by which the wings are folded beneath the elytra are imperfectly formed ginglymoid joints in the nervures, and seldom allow of motion in more than one direction. In most Coleoptera, as in Scarabeeida, Hi/dro- philidce, &c. there is only one of these joints in each wing, but in the Bracheh/tra, in which the wings are closely packed beneath very short covers, there are often so many as four in each wing,* while in other species, as in the Bu- prestida, in which the wings are not folded but are only of the length of the abdomen, these joints are entirely absent. In every instance the membranous portions of the wings are either plaited longitudinally or folded trans- versely when the wings are concealed beneath the elytra. In the neuration, or distribution of the tra- cheae in the wings, pterigostia, which by the French entomologists are called nervures, on a casual inspection there appear to be many remarkable variations. But when the wings are attentively examined, it is found that there is always a great uniformity in the distribution of the principal nervures, and this is so precise and regular in many orders that it has been employed by some naturalists as strongly cha- racterizing different groups. The irregularity which at first is supposed to exist in the dis- tribution of these nervures in some families arises entirely from the greater or less relative enlargement of the principal trunks or their branches. The characters derived from these parts were formerly employed by Frisch in Germany and Harrisf in this country, but have of late years been more particularly ap- plied to the classification of Hymenoptera by Jurine,^ St. Fargeau, and Mr. Shuckard, the first two of whom have founded their arrange- ments of Hymenoptera upon characters de- rived almost entirely from these structures, each of which they have designated by a distinct name. Mr. Shuckard, who has studied this subject with much care, gives the following description of the anterior wing in Hymenop- tera^ " The contour of the wing is formed by its anterior, apical, and posterior margins. * Straus, Considerat., &c. p. 127. t Exposition of English Insects, 4to. London, 1782. J Nouvelle Methode de Classes les Hymenop- teres et les Dipteres, par L. Jurine, torn. i. 4to. Geneve, 1807. ยง Transactions of the Entomological Society of London, vol. i. p. 209.