INSECTA, 979 directly forwards in the middle line of the body, and then backwards by the sides of the thorax and abdomen, to the lateral and pos- terior parts of the heart, into which it is re- ceived, by means of transverse currents in each segment, through the auricular space and ori- fices. This course, as discovered by Carus, is indicated in the description and diagram given in a former part of this work.* The blood, which is usually of a very transparent greenish or yellowish colour, is filled with a great num- ber of little particles, which were described by Carus as oblong or oval, but more correctly by Mr. Bowerbank f as flattened oat-shaped masses, which retain their form while circu- lating through the body, but like the particles of blood in Vertebrata become globular imme- diately they are brought into contact with water. It is stated by Burmeister J that they vary in diameter from J.jth to ^th of a line, but they differ also in size in the same individual, and are. often rough or tuberculated as noticed by Edwards,§ and as distinctly seen in the blood of Sphinx ligustri. The motions of the blood, ren- dered perceptible by the presence of these par- ticles, was first observed by Carus in the aqua- tic larva of Ephemera, in which, as in other aquatic transparent bodied larvae, the particles are very distinct. Baker|| and some of the older observers in this country had long before seen motions of the fluids in the limbs of some in- sects, but Carus first discovered the existence of a complete circulation. Cams saw the blood distributed in several streams from the aortal «xtremity of the dorsal vessel in the head re- turning in currents, that entered the base of the antenna.' and limbs, in which it formed loops, and then flowing into the abdomen entered the heart at its posterior extremity. Wagner^] con- firmed Carus' discovery, and added some new observations. He saw the blood flowing back- wards in two venous currents, one at the sides of the body and intestine, and the other along- side of the dorsal vessel, and he discovered that the blood not only entered at the ex- tremity of the dorsal vessel, but also at the sides in each segment, at the valves discovered by Straus. Both Carus and Wagner, however, believed that the currents of blood observed by them were not inclosed in distinct parietes or vessels. Mr. Bowerbank,** in repeating these observations, saw also the blood distributed by the dorsal vessel forming loops in the antennas and limbs, and then passing backwards m la- teral and transverse currents, enter at the valves into the dorsal vessel. And he also observed and clearly denned the structure and action of the valves. He discovered, however, that the currents of blood along the sides of the body are really inclosed in distinct parietes, and do not flow in the common abdominal cavity, * See Article CIRCULATION, vol. i. p. 652., fig. 325. t Entomol. Mag. vol. i. p. 244. $ Op. cit. 404. $ Art. Blood, vol. i. p. 408. || On the Microscope, vol. i. p. 130. t Isis, 1832. ** Entomological Mag. vol. i. April, 1833, p. 239. as previously supposed, the boundaries of the vessels inclosing these currents being clearly definable. He has also expressed his belief that a " much greater portion of the circulation than we can clearly define is carried on within given vessels, as the blood may frequently be seen flowing in curved and other lines, and con- fined within very narrow limits, but so deeply seated amidst the muscles and intestines as to- tally to prevent the boundaries of the current from being clearly observed." We are ourselves most distinctly of the same opinion, having formerly, through the kindness of Mr. Bowerbank, been allowed to examine the circulation in Ephemera by means of his powerful microscope. We believe also that we have seen distinct vessels passing transversely across the dorsal surface of each segment, in the direction of the anterior part of each chamber of the dorsal vessel, in the large pupa of Acherontia Alropos and Sphinx ligustri,* but whether these are vessels returning to or distributed from each chamber, as we are most inclined to believe, is not cer- tain. If they be not vessels distributed from the heart, it is a somewhat curious circumstance that the whole of the blood should be first sent to the head of the insect, and the viscera of the abdominal region be nourished only by the returning blood, which has in part passed the round of the circulation. The only instance in which vessels had previously been supposed to be distributed directly from the heart in the abdomen was pointed out so long ago as 1824 by Professor Muller,f who discovered a con- nexion of the oviducts with the inferior surface of the organ in many insects; but these were afterwards believed by Carus, Treviranus, Wagner, and Burmeister to be only ligamen- tous connexions. We have observed these con- nexions in many insects, and certainly believed, when we first noticed them, without being aware that they had previously been seen by Midler, that they were vascular structures. We have traced them, especially in the Cardbidd. into direct connexion with the organ, but have been unable to observe at what point the cavity of the ovarial tubes commences, or where the supposed ligamentous portion begins. We have seen these connexions not only in the perfect insects but also in the larvae, more espe- cially in the males of Sphinx ligustri and Odunestis potatoria. In these larvae the two oblong testicles, not united into one mass as in the perfect state, are each attached, side by side, by two short filaments to that chamber of the dorsal vessel which is situated in the ninth segment. One of these attachments proceeds from the anterior and the other from the pos- terior part of each testicle. Now, if these at- tachments be not distinct vessels, it is remark- able that these glandular and secretory organs should always be connected by mere ligaments with the great circulatory organ, since, if the object of their connexion were merely to retain them in their place in the abdomen, it would * Dr. Roget's Bridgewater Treatise, vol. ii. p. 245. t Nova Acta Nat, t. xii. 2.