HERMAPHRODITISM. 724 to the formation of the sexual organs, which may enable us to make an approach at least to accurate ideas of the character and origin of those anormalities that constitute the several varieties of true hermaphroditism. These facts relate to the interesting subject of the unity of structure which is manifested in the correspond- ing male and female reproductive organs of the human subject, and of other species of bisexual animals. By several of the Greek, Roman, and Ara- bian physiologists,* the respective organiza- tions of the two sexes were considered as in some degree typical of one another, the female being regarded as an inverted male, with the testicles and penis turned inwards to form the ovaries and uterus. This doctrine of analogy between the male and female sexual organs has, with various modifications, been very ge- nerally admitted by modern physiologists, and in some of its bearings it has been made, more particularly of late years, the subject of consi- derable discussion. The testicles are still re- garded as organs which correspond with the ovaries in their original situation, in their vas- cular and nervous connections, and in their re- lative sexual functions. The recent progress of the anatomy of the development of the em- bryo has also shewn that the two organs cor- respond in their primitive origin. It is now well ascertained that the large masses occupy- ing each side of the abdomen of the embryo at an early stage of development, and which Rathke has named the Wolffian bodies after their illustrious discoverer, form, in Birds and Mammalia at least, the primordial matrices upon which the urinary and genital organs are developed. On the inner side of each of these matrices a small body is early developed, which seems to become afterwards either a testicle or an ovary, according to the particular ulterior sexual type which the embryo assumes. In further following up the analogy of struc- ture between the organs of the two sexes, the vasa deferentia of the male are generally com- pared to the Fallopian tubes of the female, the scrotum to the external labia, the body of the penis to the clitoris, and its corpus spon- giosum, or, according to others, its prepuce, is regarded as corresponding in type with the female nymphje. A considerable dif- ference of opinion, however, still prevails as to the prototype of the female uterus in the male system. Some anatomists, as Burdach, Steghlener, and Blainville, regard the uterus and male vesiculae seminales as corresponding parts; while others, as Meckel, Cams, Schmidt, Ackermann, and Serres, compare the uterus to the male prostate. A sufficient number of facts seems still wanting to determine the accu- racy and justness of either of these analogies. There are instances of malformation on record which appear to favour both opinions, and there are other cases which almost incline us to be- * Aristotle, Hist. An. lib. i. 17. Galen, De Semine, lib. ii. & De Usu Partium, c. i. Rhases, De Re Medica, lih. i. cap. 26. Avicenna, De Membris Ge- nerut. lib. i:i. 21, &c. lieve that the vesicula? seminales correspond to the fundus or body of the uterus in the human subject, and to the cornua uteri in quadrupeds ; while the prostate represents in the male struc- ture the lower portion or cervix of the same organ. The phenomena of the development of the reproductive organs in the embryo will, when more fully investigated, probably serve to clear up this question. M. Geoffiroy St. Hilaire has propounded views of the analogy of the male and female organs in some respects different from the above. He divides the uterus of the human subject into the body and the upper part or fundus, the latter corresponding to what constitutes the cornua uteri in the human embryo, and in adult quadrupeds. Further, believing that in the determination of all analogies in type and structure between different organs, the origin and course of the bloodvessels supplying the part ought to be our principal criterion, he has been led, by the study of the distribution of the branches of the hypogastric arteries, to consider the body of the uterus and the vesicula? semi- nales as repetitions of each other in the two sexes ; and, contraiy to the opinion of most anatomists, he conceives that the male vasa deferentia strictly correspond with the fundus or cornua uteri, and that the epididymis repre- sents a coiled-up Fallopian tube, or in other words that the Fallopian tube is an unrolled epididymis. M St. Hilaire has offered the following table to shew what he conceives to be analogous organs in the two sexes:—* In the male. Testicle = Epididymis — Vas deferens. = Vesicula seminalis = Sheath of the penis = Penis = In the female. Ovary Fallopian tube Cornu of the uterus Body of the uterus. Vagina Clitoris In tracing out the analogies between the male and female parts, the mode in which we ought to consider the female vagina has given rise to some diversity of opinion. From the above table it appears that M. St. Hilaire con- siders it to be represented in the male organiza- tion by the sheath of the penis, but we are cer- tainly inclined to view it in a different light, and to regard it as a part in so far peculiar to the female, that it consists of a permanent condition of that urino-genital perineal fissure that we have already described as existing at a certain period in the embryos of both sexes, and which is latterly shut up in the male, or, speaking more accurately, it is contracted into what forms the pelvic portion of the male urethra. If this were a fit opportunity for following out the consideration of the unity of type be- tween the male and female reproductive organs, it would be easy to shew the justness of those greater analogies that we have mentioned, by pointing out other numerous minor, but still strong points of correspondence manifested in * Phil. Anat. torn. i. (1822,) p. 471.