717 HERMAPHRODITISM. domestic and wild duck fAnas boscha). Among the Scansores it has been seen in the cuckoo (Cuculus canorus) by Payraudeau; and among the Passeres in the cotinga (Am- pelis) by Dufresne ; in the chaffinch (Frin- gilla J and rougequeue ( Motacilla) by Prevost; and in the bunting (Emberiza paradisaa and longicauda) by Blumenbach. This change of plumage in old female birds commences,according to M.Isidore St.Hilaire,* much sooner in some instances than in others; it may only begin to show itself several years after the bird has ceased to lay, though depend- ing more or less directly upon this phenomenon, and sometimes it commences immediately after it. The change may be effected in a single season, though in general it is not complete for some years. When it is perfected, the female may display not only the variety of colours, but also the brilliancy of the male plumage, which it sometimes resembles even in its ornamental appendages, as in the acquisition of spurs, and, in the domestic fowls, of the comb and wattles of the cock. The voice of the bird is also very generally changed. Its female habits and in- stinct are likewise often lost; and, in some in- stances, it has been seen to assume in a great degree those of the male, and has even been observed to attempt coition with other females of its own species f In most of the female birds that have undergone this change, the ovary has been found entirely or partially dege- nerated, though in a few cases the morbid alte- ration is not very marked, eggs having even been present in the organ in one or two in- stances. In general, however, it is greatly diminished in size, or has become altogether atrophied ; but the perfection of the change in the plumage does not seem to bear any direct ratio with the degree of morbid alteration and atrophy in the ovary. That the changes towards the male type, de- scribed as occasionally occurring in old female birds, is directly dependent, not upon their age, but upon the state of the ovaries in them, seems still further proved by similar changes being sometimes observed in these females long previous to the natural cessation of the powers of reproduction, in consequence of their ovaries having become wasted or destroyed by disease. Greve,^ in his Fragments of Comparative Anatomy and Physiology, states that hens whose ovaries are scirrhous crow sometimes like cocks, acquire tail-feathers resembling * Edinburgh Journ. of Philosoph. Science, (1826") p. 308. t Rumball, in Home's Comparative Anatomy, vol. iii. p. 330, states having observed an old duck which had assumed the male plumage, attempt sexual connection with another female. This may perhaps enable us to understand the reputed cases of hermaphroditism in women, who, as related by Mollerus (Tract, de Hermaphr. cap. ii.) and Blan- card, (Collect. Medico-Phys. cent. iii. obs. 80,) after having themselves borne children became ad- dicted to intercourse with other females. Of course we cannot give our credence to the alleged success- ful issue of such intercourse. t Bruchstuccke sur vergleich. Anat. und Phvsiol. s. 45. those of the male, and become furnished with large spurs. The same author mentions also the case of a duck, which, from being previously healthy, suddenly acquired the voice of the male, and on dissection its ovary was found hard, cartilaginous, and in part ossified. Mr. Yarrell, in a paper read before the Royal Society in 1827,* has stated that in a number of instances he had observed young female pheasants with plumage more or less resem- bling the male, and in all of them he found on dissection the ovaries in a very morbid state, and the oviduct diseased throughout its whole length, with its canal obliterated at its upper part. He also shews that a similar effect upon the secondary sexual characters of the female bird is produced by the artificial division and removal of a small portion of their oviduct in the operation of making capons of female poul- try ; and he states that his investigations have led him to believe that in all animals bearing external characters indicative of the sex, these characters will undergo a change and exhibit an appearance intermediate between the perfect male and female, wherever the system is de- prived of the influence of the true sexual organs, whether from original malformation, acquired disease, or artificial obliteration ,f From the frequency with which castration is performed, the effects of the testicles in evol- ving the general sexual peculiarities of the male have been more accurately ascertained than those of the ovaries upon the female consti- tution. These effects vary according to the age at which the removal of the testicles takes place. When an animal is castrated some time before it has reached the term of puberty, the distinctive characters of the male are in general never developed; and the total absence of these characters, together with the softness and re- laxation of their tissues, the contour of their form, the tone of their voice, and their want of masculine energy and vigour, assimilate them more in appearance and habits to the female than to the male type. If the testicles are removed nearer the period of puberty, or at any time after that term has occurred, and * Phil. Trans, for 1827, part ii. p. 268. t On old or diseased female birds assuming the plumage, &c. of the male, see J. Hunter, Observ. on the An. Econ. p. 75; E. Home, Lect. on Comp. Anat. vol. iii. p. 329; Mauduit, in Encycl. Method. Art. Fuisan, torn. 'ii. p. 3 ; Butter, in Wernerian Soc. Mem. vol. iii. p. 183 ; Schneider's Notes, in his edition of the Emperor Frederick the Second's Treatise " De Arte Venandi cum Avibus;" Tucker's Ornithologia Damnoniensis ; Catesby's Natural History of Carolina, &c. i. t. 1. ; Bechstein, Naturgeschichte d. Deutschlands, bd. ii. ยง 116; Blumenbach, De anomalis et vitiosis quibusdam nisus formativi aberrationibus, p. 8 ; and Instit. of Physiology, p. 369; Payrandeau, Bull, des Sc. Nat. t. xiii. p. 243; Tiedemann, Zoologie, vol. iii. p. 306 ; Geoff. St. Hilaire, Phil. Anat. torn. ii. p. 360 ; Isid. St. Hilaire, Mem. du Mus. d'Hist. Nat. torn. xii. p. 220 ; Annal. des Sc. Nat. t. vii. p. 336, or Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal for 1826, p. 302, with additional cases by Professor Jameson, p. 309; Kob, De mutatione sexus, p. 11. Berlin, 1823 ; Yarrell, Phil. Trans, for 1827, p. 268, with a drawing of the diseased ovaries, &c.