MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. 360 is the peroneous externus. (See Leg, Mus- cles of.) The tendon of this muscle passes behind the outer malleolus, then, running downwards and forwards, it enters a groove formed in the os calcis, close behind the pro- minence of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. It then runs across the sole of the foot, in contact with the bones, to be fixed to the inner cuneiform bone and metatarsal bone of the great toe. The course and situation of the tendon well deserve particular attention in the dissection of the foot. Without some study, it is impossible fully to understand its office, or how essential its action is to the mechanism of progression. If we examine the general form of the foot, we see that the anterior end of it is not square, owing to the comparative length of the toes. These are not of equal length, but are each shorter than the other as we proceed outwards, the outermost of all being the short- est. This part of the foot then is like the end of an oblong, with one angle greatly rounded off. When, therefore, the weight of the body is, by the elevation of the heel, thrown forwards upon the toes, there is necessarily a tendency, in this shape of the foot, to tilt the pressing force out- wards, whereas if all the toes had been of equal length, the elevation of the heel would simply have thrown the weight directly forwards, the support being equal on both sides of the foot. This tendency outwards, occasioned by the difference in length of the toes, is still further increased by the difference in strength, the largest, the most unyielding support, being on the inner side of the foot, the smallest and the most yielding being on the outer. This then being the construction of the basis of support, some means of counteracting this tendency was necessary to enable us to carry the body directly forwards, even in the simple act of walking, and still more in the more violent exertions. This is accomplished by the peroneus longus, whose tendon, like a girt, passes under the outer edge of the sole, and thus, lifting this, and in some degree turning the sole outwards, throws the weight of the body upon the great toe. This action of the muscle is particularly exemplified in the movements of skaiting. The movements of the bones of the tarsus are so distinct and constant that we have clas- sified the muscles which act upon them sepa- rately from those of the ankle. (See Foot, Joints of.) The muscles of the great toe are remarkable, as might be expected, for their size and strength. The long flexor is considerably larger than that common to the other toes, and gives to this a slip of its tendon, so that the flexor longus pol- licis does in fact assist in flexing all the toes. The general arrangement of all the muscles and tendons in the sole is very curious, and has a further object than the mere flexion of the toes. The great toe is, as we see, well provided, and it needs this, since it bears the greatest share of the burden of the body in walking, &c. The muscular provision for the other toes is as considerable, and indeed more so, in pro- portion to the size of the toes. There is, 1st, the flexor brevis digitorum; 2d, the flexor longus Fig. 169. 1 Flexor accessorius. 2 Flexor pollicis longus. 3 Flexor digitorum longus. 4 Slip from the flexor pollicis longus to the flexor digitorum longus. 5 Lumbricales. 6 Tendon of long flexor. digitorum ; 3d, this tendon receives an aux- iliary tendon from the long flexor of the great toe; 4th,themassacarnea; 5th, the lumbricales. There can be little doubt that the use of all these muscles is to give a powerful support to the antero-posterior arch of the foot, to which purpose the mere ligaments would be little equal. But we must admire not only the number and force but the arrangement of these muscles, which are so placed as to act, almost all of them, from the same centre, and there- fore with greater advantage for the object of strengthening the arch. Thus the flexor brevis digitorum lies pretty nearly central in this region, while immediately under it the flexor longus digitorum, running from within outwards, is crossed in the opposite oblique direction by the flexor longus pollicis, and these again are still further checked outwards by the flexor accesso- rius, so that the centre of action of all these mus- cles and of the lumbricales also, which arise from the long flexor tendon, is in the same line as the flexor brevis, which lies over them, and as a support to the great arch of the foot this arrange- ment of the muscular chords must have a pecu- liarly advantageous effect. (A. T. S. Dodd.) For the Bibliography, see Anatomy (Intro- duction).