INSECTA. 933 state, are almost or entirely imperforate in the perfect. The reason for this appears to result from the changes that take place as regards the region of the body in which respiration is chiefly carried on in the two states of the insect. In the larva state respiration is carried on chiefly in ihe abdominal region, but in the perfect the chief part of the body con- cerned is the thorax. It is through the tho- racic and first pair of abdominal spiracles that nearly the whole of the air enters and is ex- pired at each act of respiration, and conse- quently it is found that the spiracles in those parts are very much larger than in the abdo- men. The largest spiracle is usually the pro- thoracic, of which we have an example in Geotritpes and Gryllotalpa, and the next Largest, as in Geotrupes, is the first abdominal. The situations in which the spiracles are placed also vary considerably in different insects. In Coleoptera and Orthoptera the first pair are si- tuated in the membrane between the pro- and meso-thorax, and the remaining ones in the meso-* and meta-thorax and following seg- ments of the abdomen. There is also a similar arrangement of the spiracles in Hemiptera. But in other insects, as in the larvae of Lepi- doptera, the first spiracle is situated in the pro- thorax, and the remaining eight pairs in the fifth and succeeding segments to the twelfth ; while in the larvae of Hymenoptera, in which there are ten spiracles on each side, they are placed in the second, third, fifth, sixth, and succeeding segments to the twelfth. The second form of external respiratory or- gans, as Burmeister remarks, are simply elon- gated spiracles, and are found only in those insects which reside almost constantly in the water, but breathe pure atmospheric air, for which purpose they come to the surface of the water at intervals to respire. They are short horny tubes, which in some instances are sur- rounded by plumose setae. They are always open at their extremity, and in general project beyond the body. They are chiefly met with in the aquatic Hemiptera, as in Nepa (Jig. 352) and Runatra, and are usually two in number, projecting from the extremity of the abdomen. In Nepa they are about half the length of the body, and in Ranatra as long as the whole body itself. It is through these tubes that the whole of the respiratory function is performed, and the air both inspired and ex- pelled. They exist also in the larvae of the Dyticida and Hydrophilida:, in which they are the only respiratory passages, although it has been thought by some that lateral spiracles exist also in these larvae, as subsequently found in their perfect insects. This form of respira- tory organ exists also in the aquatic larvae of some Diptera, as in the rat-tailed maggot, Eristalis, and the larva of Stratiornys. In the latter instance the insect supports itself at the surface of the water by a coronet of radiating setae, in which it includes a bubble of air, and descends with it to the bottom of pools for the purposes of respiration, and comes again * Straus. to the surface for a fresh supply when the store it has carried with it is exhausted. These or- gans are thus distinct from those by means of which the insects respire the air mechanically mixed with the water. Branchia constitute the third form of ex- ternal respiratory organ. This form is met with only in the larva and pupa state. These organs are always situated at a part of the body at which the spiracles are subsequently to exist. They are formed, as in the larvae of Amphibiae, of extensions outwards of the exterior or cuticular surface of the body, and are largely supplied with bloodvessels, and tracheae ramify within them. They are never, as in the gills of fishes, developed internally, excepting when they exist at the anal extremity of the body, as in the Libellulidce, but are extended from the sides as in the Tadpole, being simply expansions of the external surface. We are not aware that cilia have yet been observed on these surfaces, but judging from the analogies of structure and formation that exist between these parts in insects and the analogous ones in the larvae of Amphibia, there seems reason to expect that they do probably exist. The necessity for such structures on the branchiae may, however, be rendered less imperative from the voluntary power which the insect itself possesses of moving the branchiae at pleasure, by which the function of cilia, that of effecting a con- stant renewal of the water in contact with the surface of the organ, is steadily accomplished. It is the belief of most entomologists,* that branchiae absorb the air from the water, and convey it by the minute ramifications of the tracheal vessels, with which they are abundantly supplied, and which terminate in single trunks, into the main tracheae, to be distributed over the whole body, as in insects which live in the open atmosphere. This is supported by the fact that the tracheal vessels, as seen in the transparent bodies of many aquatic larvae, are filled with air; but the subject still admits of enquiry, why in these instances the usual func- tion of branchiae is so far departed from as to allow of the air being absorbed from the water into distinct vessels, to be distributed over the whole body, for the purpose of aerating the fluids, rather than that it should be brought into contact with the blood, and undergo the consequent changes at the surface of the bran- chiae, as in the larvae of Amphibia and Fishes. The branchiae of insects are of three kinds. The first exists in the form of elongated, slender, hair-like organs, collected together in tufts, that originate by single stems, as in the larvae and pupae of gnats.f This form is by far the most common. These filamentous parts are supplied each with a single trachea that is extended throughout their whole length, and which is connected with the great longitudinal tracheae of the body. In a very few instances, branchiae of this form originate separately, and not in tufts, as, according to De Geer,| in the * Burmeister. t Burmeister, op. cit. p. 167. X Mcmoires sur les Inscctcs, vol. iv. pi. 13, fig. 16.19.