253 FEMORAL ARTERY. the latter be lost. It will be recollected that in the two inferior stages the artery is covered by the sartorius and by two laminae of the fascia lata, between which the muscle is situate: the vessel is, therefore, similarly cir- cumstanced in this particular throughout both, but in some other important respects the re- lations of the artery are different. 1. In its middle stage the vessel is nearer to the anterior plane of the limb. 2. The deep layer of fascia, by which it is covered, is far less thick and strong, particularly at its upper part. 3. The artery is not so completely covered by the sar- torius; and for those reasons the vessel may be more easily reached from before. These constitute the principal anatomical conside- rations why the middle stage should be pre- ferred to the lower for operation, but, since it is at times requisite to tie the vessel in its last stage, it is necessary to examine the influence which its anatomical relations may have upon the conduct of the operation at that part. 1. The greater depth of the artery from the anterior surface of the limb renders a more extended incision necessary : in cutting upon arteries " the centre of the incision should be," as directed by Guthrie, " if possible directly over that part of the artery on which it is in- tended to apply the ligature." In the case of the femoral artery in its third stage, the length of the incision should not be less than from four to five inches according to the volume of the limb; its direction should correspond to that of the sartorius, but it must be varied somewhat according to the side of the muscle upon which the operator may purpose to seek the vessel. It should commence somewhat below the middle of the thigh, and be con- tinued as much upon the lower as upon the middle third of the limb. 2. The artery is situate, in its third stage, nearer to the outer than the inner margin of the sartorius, and the more so the nearer to its termination; hence it may be exposed with greater ease and cer- tainty by cutting upon the outer edge of the muscle and displacing it inward. Hunter, in his operations, selected the inner margin, and displaced it forward and outward; but this proceeding is attended with disadvantages. 1. The saphena vein is more in the way and exposed to danger of being divided since it lies at this part, along or near the inner mar- gin of the sartorius. 2. The muscle lying more to the inner than the outer side of the artery must be more displaced, and the depth of the wound for the same reason greater when the vessel is sought from its inside.* 3. The ope- ration must be more inconvenient and em- barrassing, as well because of the former difficulties as because it must be performed more from the inside of the limb, and from within outward, than in the method by the * The contrary is maintained by Lisfranc and others ; but, according to the experience of the author, without sufficient reason. He has care- fully compared the depth of the wounds as made upon the opposite sides of the muscle, and in the subjects of examination that by the inside appeared to him the deeper. outer margin of the sartorius. Those objec- tions are avoided by cutting upon the outer edge of the muscle, against which, however, it has been advanced that in that method the vastus internus may be mistaken for the sar- torius, and that the wound being made from before, there is not a depending and ready outlet afforded to matter should it form, while by the other there is. The former of these objections cannot cany much weight, and for the second the best plan for obviating the dangers of inflammation and suppuration is, as much as possible, to render them unneces- sary, which is best accomplished by selecting that method by which the artery may be ex- posed most easily, and with least disturbance to the parts in its vicinity. To the writer, therefore, it seems that the method by the outer margin of the sartorius, which appears to have been suggested by Hutchison, is the more eligible in the operation for taking up the femoral in its third stage. 2. The great thickness and strength of the anterior wall of the femoral canal both increase the dif- ficulty of opening the canal, and render it desirable that that structure should be freely divided for the double purpose of facilitating the taking up of the artery, and preventing the injurious effect which must be produced by the confinement caused by the structure in question in the event of inflammation extend- ing along the vessel. 3. The relation of the vein to the artery at this part, viz. posterior and external, will make it more safe to pass the needle round the latter from without than from the outside; this, however, is a rule which cannot be strictly adhered to, for the direction in which the instrument shall be passed must be varied according to circum- stances ; it would be difficult to pass it from the outside in case the artery were exposed from the inside of the sartorius; but attention to the caution demanded by the position of the vein is, for this reason, only the more necessary. 4. The saphenus nerve being here within the femoral canal is to be carefully avoided ; it will be so with certainty, if the needle be carried from the outside 5 The mistake of confounding the superficial sune nor internal articular artery with the femoral must be also avoided* This mistake, which has occurred, ought not however to occur again ,„ the hands of a well-informed surgeon, for the possibility of it ought not to be lost sight of in operations at the lower part of the thigh; and it may be easily avoided by re- collecting, first, that the femoral itself is within the femoral canal, and therefore that any vessel, which presents before the division of the anterior wall of the canal, which is so remarkably thick in this situation that it can hardly be overlooked, cannot be the one which is sought for; and, secondly, that the course of the branch within the canal, after its origin is very short, and therefore that in case of°do'ubt the vessel which presents, must, if the arti- cular, conduct us directly to the trunk itself, * See that vessel.