721 HERMAPHRODITISM. animal, where a single horn was present, situ- ated also on the same side with the diseased and degenerated ovary ; and Russell * states, as the result of his experiments on castration in the deer, that when he removed one testicle only from the animal, the horn on the opposite side was the more completely developed of the two. Azaraf observed in two birds the right side of the tail to possess the characters of the male, and the left those of the female. In the hermaphroditic lobster previously al- luded to as described by Nicholls, the general external configuration of the body was, like that of the sexual organs, perfectly female on one side, and perfectly male on the other. It is principally, however, among herma- phroditic insects that a difference of sexual type in the general conformation of the oppo- site sides of the body, and of its individual parts, has been observed ; and this malforma- tion is the more striking and easy of obser- vation in this class of animals, on account of the great differences in colour, size, and form respectively presented by the antenna;, wings, and other pai ts of the body of the males and females of the same species. Lateral hermaphroditism of the body in In- sects has been most frequently observed by Entomologists amongst the class Lepidoptera. It has now been remarked in the following species:—in the Argynnis papliia, Lycana alexis, Saturnia pyri, Endromis versicolor, and Hurpya vinula (Ochsenheimer); in the Gas- trophaga medicaginis and Lycana adonis (Rudolphi); in the Liparis dispur (Schaefer, Ochsenheimer, and Rudolphi); in the Sa- turnia Carpini (Capieux, Ochsenheimer, and Rudolphi); in iheOrastrophagaquercifblia (Hett- linger and Rudolphi); in the Gastrophaga pini (Scopoli); in the Gastrophaga cratagi (Esper); in the Sphinx convolvuli (Ernst); Sphinxpopuli (Fischer and Westwood); Papilio polycaon (Macleay); Polyonimatus alexis (Entomolog. Mag. vol. iii. p. 304); Bombyx castrensis (Duval); in the Argynnis paphia (Allis); in the Vanessa atalanta (Schrank and Germar); and in the Vanessa antiopha and Deilephila euphorbia (Germar). King and Germar have recorded two instances of it among the Cole- optera, the former in the Lucanus cervus, and the latter in the Melolontha vulgaris; and Mr. Westwood mentions a third case in the large water-beetle (Dyticus marginalis), as con- tained in Mr. Hope's collection, and has seen a fourth in the stag-beetle (Lucanus cervus). Out of twenty-nine recorded cases of lateral hermaphroditism in Insects, in which the sexual characters of each side are distinctly specified, we find that in seventeen instances the right side was male, and in twelve female. Burmeister alleges that in by far the majority of cases the right side is male, and the left female,— a statement in which Meckel co- incides, while Westwood maintains the reverse. The cases we have ourselves collected are cer- tainly numerically in favour of the former * Economy of Nature in Glandular Diseases, t Kob's Dissert, rle Mutatione Sexus, p. 19. VOL. II. opinion, but the data are as yet so few, and the difference so trifling, as not to warrant us to come to any decided conclusion on this point. In some instances we find among insects an imperfect lateral hermaphroditism consisting of some parts of one side, as of one or more of the wings, palpi, or antennse being formed according to a different sexual type from the same parts of the opposite side, and from the general body of the animal. Thus in the Melitoea described and dissected by Klug (see Lateral Herma- phroditism ) the general form of the insect was male, but the left eye, palpus, antenna, and left sexual fang were smaller than in individuals belonging to this sex; the left antenna was annulated with white and yellow at the apex, while the right was of one colour; the general form of the abdomen was male but somewhat thick, and the wings were all equal and male. In a Pontia duplidice mentioned by Rudol- phi, and which in its general external characters was female, the right anterior wing was formed after the male type, and the sexual organs also resembled those of the male. Ochsenheimer mentions one Gastrophaga qucrcus with the body, and the antenna? and wings on the left side female, and the right wings male; and a second with the body and the right side female, and the left side and two an- tennae male, the latter being brown and pecti- nated. In this imperfect variety of lateral herma- phroditism, the malformed wing, antenna, or palpus is sometimes formed after one sexual type and coloured after another. In a male Melitwa pha-be noticed by Germar, the right wings and antenna were female in regard to size, but male in respect to colouring and markings. In a female Deilephila galii, he found the left antenna and palpus of the small size of the male, but agreeing in colouring and markings with the corresponding female parts on the right side. In a Pontia cardamincs, which was male in all its other characters, Ochsenheimer observed the right superior wing marked as in the female, and he mentions another individual of the same species which had a female form with some male colours. In another variety of insect hermaphroditism the sexual difference is sometimes, as we have already noticed in regard to the human subject, expressed not by a lateral, but by a longitudinal sexual antagonism, or, in other words, the anterior and posterior parts of the body are formed after the two opposite sexual types. Thus in a Satwnia carpini described by Ochsenheimer, the antennae were male, the superior wings male in form, but coloured as in the female, and the posterior wings, with the exception of a reddish brown spot upon the left, were, with the body and other parts, female. Lastly, in a third variety of external hermaphro- ditic conformation in Insects, we find the char- acters of the two sexes mixed up and crossed in different irregular combinations upon the body of the same individual. In a Gastrophaga castrensis described by Rudolphi, and where the male type predominated, with a tendency, 3 8