340 BONES OF THE FOOT. facet last named separates it from the third and largest one; this is articulated with the facet which is on the inferior surface of the body of the astragalus; it is oval, convex, and its long axis directed forwards and outwards. Imme- diately in front of this articular facet there is a hollow, rough, non-articular surface for the insertion of the ligament which connects the astragalus to the os caleis, and behind the facet the remaining portion of the superior surface of the bone is also non-articular, slightly exca- vated from before backwards, varying in length in different subjects, and on this variety de- pends the diversity in the length of the heel. b. The posterior surface, oval in its outline, rough and fibrous in its inferior half, where the tendo Achillis is inserted, smooth in its supe- rior half where a bursa is placed, over which the tendon glides, c. The inferior or plantar surface, nearly equal in extent to the superior, and in the natural position directed obliquely upward and forwards. Here we find, in ex- amining the parts from behind forwards, first, two tubercles, upon which the heel rests in standing, and which seem peculiarly to cha- racterize the human heel-bone. These tuber- cles are separated from each other by a depres- sion; the internal one is greatly the larger—it affords attachment to the short flexor of the toes ; the external one is small and pointed, and to it are attached the abductor minimi digiti muscle and the plantar fascia. Secondly, in front of these tubercles the bone is very rough and flat to within half an inch of its anterior margin, where it is slightly grooved transversely. The whole of this portion gives insertion to the strong calcaneo-cuboid ligament, d. The ante- rior or cuboid surface, which is entirely articu- lar, triangular, with its base upwards, slightly concave, and articulated with the cuboid bone. e. The external surface, quite subcutaneous, so that here the bone is greatly exposed to injury, and may be easily got at for surgical operation. It is slightly convex, its posterior half being double the size of the anterior in ver- tical measurement; at the anterior part of the former there are two superficial grooves directed obliquely forwards and downwards, separated by a slightly prominent tubercle. The anterior of these grooves gives passage to the tendon of the peroneus brevis, the posterior to that of the peroneus longus. f The internal surface, excavated in its whole extent, lodges the ten- dons and nerves which are passing from the back of the leg to the sole of the foot; at the junction of its anterior and posterior halves it is overlapped by the sustentaculum, the inferior surface of which is grooved by the tendon of the long flexor of the great toe. 3. Os cuboideum, (os cubijbrme, Fr. le cu- boide, Germ, das Wurfelbein.)—This bone forms the external one of the second row of tarsal bones; it is situated between the os calcis behind and the fourth and fifth meta- tarsal bones in front; in point of size it ranks next to the astragalus. Six surfaces may be described upon it. a. The superior or dorsal surface, forming an inclined plane, directed downwards and outwards; it is rough for liga- mentous insertion, b. The external surface, more properly an edge, very limited in extent, chiefly occupied by the commencement of the groove for the peroneus longus muscle, c. The inferior or plantar surface, which in front pre- sents a deep groove directed obliquely forwards and inwards, parallel to the anterior edge, and destined to lodge the tendon of the peroneus longus. The posterior edge of this groove is very prominent, and with the remainder of this surface, which is rough, affords insertion to the calcaneo-cuboid ligament, d. The internal surface has at its upper and posterior part a triangular plane articular facet for articulation with the external cuneiform bone, and some- times a smaller one for articulation with the navicular; the rest of this surface is irregular and rough for ligamentous insertion, e. The anterior or metatarsal surface is wholly arti- cular, and is divided by a vertical line into two facets, an outer one triangular and plane for the fifth, and an inner one quadrilateral and very slightly concave for the fourth metatarsal bone. The external of these facets is inclined obliquely outwards and backwards. ,/. The posterior surface is oval, with its long axis directed downwards and outwards; itis wholly articular and adapted to the anterior surface of the os calcis. 4. Os scaphoideum (from ax.a.<pi), navis, os naviculare, Fr./e scaphoide, Germ.das Kahnbein, oder Sc/iijforrnige Knochen,) forms the posterior and internal bone of the second tarsal row, and is placed between the three cuneiform bones in front and the astragalus behind. It is oval in shape, with its long axis directed obliquely downwards and inwards; the small end of the oval is situated internally and inferiorly, and presents a distinct prominence or process (tuber ossis navicularis), which gives insertion to some fibres of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. Four surfaces may be described upon this bone. a. The superior or dorsal surface, of great extent, convex, very rough for the inser- tion of ligaments, and perforated by foramina. b. The inferior surface, irregularly concave, and very rough, also affording insertion to ligaments, c. The posterior surface, entirely articular, oval and concave, adapted to the head of the astragalus, although considerably less in extent than it. This constitutes what is called the glenoid cavity, d. The anterior sur- face, also articular and convex, divided by two lines which converge from above downwards, into three triangular surfaces for articulation with the three cuneiform bones. 5. Ossa cuneiformia (Fr. les os cuneiformes, Germ, die Keilfbrmigen Knochen.) These bones are interposed between the navicular bone behind and the three internal metatarsal bones in front; they are arranged in the form of an arch, of which the middle cuneiform is the central or key-bone. Each is very distinctly wedge-shaped; the two outer ones have the acute edge directed downwards, but the inter- nal one has it directed upwards. The internal cuneiform bone is at once dis- tinguishable from the others by its great size. By means of an oval concave articular surface,