996 INSECTIVORA. genus the orbit is therefore circumscribed by being closed posteriorly by the union of the post-orbitar processes of the frontal and jugal bones ; in all the other genera the orbit and the temporal fossa are confounded in one cavity, without the trace of any attempt at forming a division between them. This peculiarity in the genus Tupaia shews a marked tendency to- wards the insectivorous Quadrumana. The bones of the face are very early united in the Talpida and the Soricidee. In the genus Centenes there is no jugal bone. There is therefore no zygomatic arch, notwithstanding the masseter muscle is of great size. This is attached by a single tendon to a sort of tu- bercle, which represents the zygomatic process of the maxillary bone. In Tupaia the inter- maxillary bones are very large, and their suture descends vertically, nearly half way be- tween the nares and the orbits. The Shrews, like Centenes, have no malar bone, and the zygomatic process of the maxillary is even less conspicuous than in the former genus. Most of the subterranean forms have at the extremity of the muzzle, that is to say, around the open- ing of the nares, a small rim or border, which is especially conspicuous in the Chrysochloris, for the attachment of the large and moveable cartilages of the nose, so important to these animals in turning aside the earth as they make their way through the ground, as well as in seizing the worms and insects on which they feed. The proportions of the spine vary greatly in the different families of Insectivora, as may be anticipated from the great difference in their habits. On this subject it may not be useless to subjoin the following table of the numbers of the separate classes of vertebrae, which is taken from the last edition of the Lecons d'Ana- tomie Comparee of Cuvier:— 0 — E a "3 >J. o o Toti cerv B J M u Erinaceus Europaius (Hedge- 15 6 3 12 43 Centenes ecaudatus (Tenrec). 15 5 3 10 40 1-1 7 3? 9 40 13 7 2 25 54 Sorex araneus (Shrew) .... 14 6 5? 14 46 S. fodiens (Water-shrew) . . 13 6 5 17 48 ChrysochlorisCapensis (Cape 19 3 5 5 39 Talpa Europ&a (common mole) 13 6 6 11 43 T. caca (blind mole) 14 .r. 5 11 42 Condytura cristata (radiated mole 13 6 5 17 48 Scalops (mole-shrew) 12 7 (3 10 42 It is worthy of remark, in taking a compara- tive glance at this list, that the length of the tail in the different species is in exact accord- ance with their habits, as far at least as we are acquainted with them. Thus, in Tupaia, we observe a tail as long as that of a squirrel, and obviously for the same object, that of balanc- ing the animal when taking leaps from one branch to another; and in the Water-shrew the tail is lengthened to assist in swimming, for which purpose it is also fringed on each side with stiff hairs. Of the habits of the Condy- tura* we know little, and of that little nothing which accounts for the considerable proportion of the tail. Of the form of the different vertebra? in the various groups of the Insectivora, little need be said, as there are few circumstances con- nected with these bones which bear materially upon any physiological point. It may be ob- served, however, that in the Talpida and the Soricida the cervical vertebrae form large rings, have strong transverse processes, and, except- ing the second, do not possess any spinous processes. In the Erinuceadte, and particu- larly in the Tenrec (Centenes) the transverse processes are particularly large, and the rings smaller than in the former families. The spi- nous processes are also wanting in the dorsal vertebra? of the mole. The sternum offers some peculiarities worthy of notice. In the mole the first ster- nal bone is very large and compressed. To its anterior pointed extremity the thick short clavicles are attached, and further back to the same bone, the first rib is articulated; to the second bone is fixed the second rib, and there succeed to these three elongated bones of the ordinary form, to each of which two pairs of ribs are articulated ; then a small bone, to which one pair of ribs is fixed, and then the xiphoid bone, which is long and narrow. In the Chrysochloris the first bone of the sternum is equally compressed but less elevated; and the anterior half is furnished on the up- per part with two small aliform processes, which are concave, and support the first two ribs, which are extremely broad; the long slender clavicles are attached at its anterior point; and then follow seven other oblong pieces, and an elongated xiphoid bone, which bears at its posterior extremity a semilunar car- tilaginous dilatation. The ribs in the mole and its congeners are nearly all of the same length, giving that pe- culiar cylindrical form to the body which cha- racterises these animals, and which is so essen- tial to their habits; and in the Chrysochloris the first rib is very much broader than the others. But it is in the bones constituting the anterior extremities, that the most remarkable and in- teresting peculiarities exist in some of the families of this group. In the mole especially, the anterior extremity (fig. 442) exhibits one of the most extraordinary modifications to be found in the whole of the Mammifera. The clavicle is fully developed in the whole of the Insec- tivora. In the mole (b) it offers the most * From the name condytura, given to this genus by Illiger, it might be inferred that the tail is furnished with knotty tuberosities ; this, however, is only seen in dried specimens, which doubtless furnished to Illiger the characters of the genus, and suggested its name.