GASTEROPODA. 40Q would seem to form a complete system in itself; yet, on examining the male organ of excitement, we find it connected with considerable appendages, the nature of which it is difficult to conjecture. The sac (m) is muscular, and resembles the mus- cular root of the penis in the genera already described, being, as in them, capable of in- version : at its base are seen two cul-de-sacs, into each of which opens a long and flexuous canal (/, ?;). The canal marked n is very slender, and when unfolded is four times the length of the body of the animal; its termi- nation at the point most remote from the mus- cular sac into which it opens is apparently closed. The other tube marked / is much wider and of extraordinary length; its com- mencement (t) is extremely convoluted and fully eight times as long as the body ; its walls are thin, but it is supplied plentifully with blood by means of a large artery interlaced with its convolutions ; at k it becomes enveloped in a fleshy mass of considerable thickness, after which, assuming its original appearance, it proceeds to the cul-de-sac, at the bottom of which it terminates. In Jig. b, 198, the muscular cavity (m) has been laid open, and the mode in which the above tubes enter it has been displayed ; the smaller one(n) ends in a little horny papilla (q) seen in the engraving ; the larger tube (7) terminates by a kind of glans penis, perforated by a large aperture and sur- rounded by a kind of prepuce (p): on open- ing the vessel a little before its entrance into the muscular sac, it is found to conceal a sharp horny dart (o), supported upon a fleshy pedicle, and readily protrusible through the aperture p; the analogy between this singular instrument and the dart of the Snail is ob- vious, for when the muscular sac («) is everted, the papilla; (p, q) become external, and the horny point being pushed out of the former will probably form a stimulus of the same description. We have hitherto abstained entirely from mixing up with our description of these prin- cipal forms which the generative system of the mutually impregnating Gasteropoda presents, the discussions which have arisen concerning the real nature of the different organs which have been described, and have designated them by the terms usually applied to the respective parts,without reference to their individual func- tions. It now, however, becomes necessary to lay before our readers the principal opinions which are recorded upon this subject. The chief points of debate have been the bladder, and the on;an which we have described under the appellation of testicle. The bladder is, from its constant occurrence, evidently an organ of some essential use: it was regarded by Swammerdam as the secreting structure from which the colouring fluid peculiar to some species is produced, especially in the Murices and others of the marine genera; it was there- fore named by him sac of the purple; but we shall afterwards find that this fluid is derived from another source. Blainville, on the other hand, considers this vesicle as analogous to the urinary bladder of Vertebrata ; in reference to this hypothesis, however, we should be inclined to ask, with Cuvier, where are the kidneys ? and even upon the supposition that the secretion of the bladder itself was analogous to the urinary fluid, we are not aware of any chemical proofs of its nature which are sufficient to establish the identity. Delle Chiaje again sustains that the sac of the purple is, in fact, the testis, and that its secretion, poured as it constantly is into the termination of the oviduct, is in re- ality the fecundating fluid ; yet against this we must urge the distribution of the vas deferens met with in the Helices, which from its entire arrangement converts the organ of excitement in these animals into an apparatus of immis- sion, whose nature cannot be mistaken. The opinion which we consider most consonant with all the circumstances of its position, is that it is a reservoir for the seminal fluid analogous to the spermotheca of certain insects. Cuvier expressly notices the constant relation which exists between the length of the penis and that of the canal which leads to this sac- culus, and when we remark the long chains of ova which are slowly extruded in most of the Gasteropoda, we are readily disposed to admit of the necessity of such a reservoir, which, treasuring up the semen until the eggs are about to be expelled, applies it efficiently to the ova as they successively pass the orifice of its duct. This supposition derives additional weight from what we have found to be the arrangement of the seminal ducts in Vaginulus and Onchidium. In the former we observed that, besides the canal, which, as in the Snail, perforates the root of the penis and thus be- comes subservient to copulation, the vas de- ferens actually pours a part of its contents by a separate canal into the bladder itself, which, as in all cases, communicates with the egg- passage. In Onchidium the connexion be- tween the testis and this receptacle is equally striking, as will be obvious on reference to the drawing given above. In Aplysia, Delle Chiaje considers the testicle as described by Cuvier to be in reality the matrix or receptacle for the ova, in which they attain their full development prior to expulsion, basing his opinion upon the disposition of the spiral cavity which it contains. We are entirely left to conjecture as to the uses of the other appendages found in par- ticular species, and the multifid vesicles of the Snail, which are wanting even in the Slug, the tortuous canal connected with the penis of Doridium, and the still more singular organs belonging to the male apparatus of Onchidium, must still remain the subjects of observation and experiment. The third form of the generative system in which the sexes are distinct, is met with in all the Pectinibranchiate order, and in the operculated Pulmonalia of Ferussac. In Buc- cinum, which we shall select as an example of the general arrangement of the sexual organs in the former, the male is at once distinguish-