EXCRETION. 153 Dr. Prout has lately stated strong reasons for thinking, that great part of the contents of the lymphatic vessels are not excrementitious, but destined for useful purposes in the animal eco- nomy; remarking particularly on the way in which hybernating animals appear to be nou- rished by absorption of their own Jut* And it is obviously possible, that the excre- tions may be required to purify the blood of matters taken in from without, or evolved in the coui^se of the circulation and its abundant changes, as well as to purify it of what has been absorbed from the system itself. Now that we know, that great part of the ingesta into the stomach are taken up by the veins, and pass through the liver on their way to the heart; and, likewise, that the venous blood is the chief source of the excretions of bile, it seems pro- bable, that one important use of this excretion is, to subject a part of the ingesta to a second filtration, or rejection of part of their ingre- dients, subsidiary to that which they undergo in the primae via?. This may also be probably one principal reason why the great mass of the chyle, and other products of absorption in the body, should be mixed with the blood just before its concentration at the heart, and subsequent dif- fusion through the lungs; and thus participate in a purification, by the rejection of water and carbonic acid, before they are applied to the purposes of nutrition. We know, that in birds, reptiles, and fishes, there is a venous circulation similar to that of the vena porta?, through the substance of the kidneys, of most of the blood coming from the lower half of the body; a part of the ingredients of that blood will, there- fore, be evolved with the urine; and, in the case of the reptiles, it has been lately ascertained, that this venous blood receives, before entering the kidneys, the contents of numerous and large lymphatics.f At all events, if we are right in supposing, that, in the higher animals, all the great chemi- cal changes which are wrought on the blood, even the formation of the excretions, are effected during its circulation in the bloodvessels them- selves, we can thereby acquire a general notion of the intention of several contrivances, the use of which is otherwise very obscure. We can understand, that the object of the concentration of the blood at the heart may be not merely mechanical, but, partly, also chemical; and we can see the intention of the heart being so ad- mirably adapted, by the articulated structure of its internal surfaces, not only to receive and propel, but also most effectually to intermix, all the component particles of the blood, both be- fore and after its exposure to the air ; the most perfect illustration of which power of the heart is afforded by the effect it produces on any com- pressible and elastic fluid which is received in a mass of any considerable volume into its cavi- ties, and which is necessarily subdivided into so many minute globules, and compressed in so many directions, that it cannot escape from the heart, and so stops the circulation. * Bridgcwater Treatise, p. 515, et seq. t M'uller, in Phil. Transactions, 1833. Again, when we attend to the manner in which substances foreign to the circulation are absorbed into it, whether from the system itself, or from without, we see a great deal of contri- vance, evidently adapted, andprobably intended, to secure the most gradual introduction, and the most perfect intermixture possible, and to allow the escape of certain parts of the compound fluid formed. Thus of the contents of the primae via?, part are absorbed into the veins, and sent through the capillaries of the liver and those of the lungs, (both admitting of excretion,) before they are admitted into the arteries. What is taken up by the lacteals has already undergone much elaboration by living fluids; this portion passes through the mesenteric glands, and is, probably, so far intermixed with the blood there, and partly received into the veins passing from them to the liver;* and the rest is mixed with much matter flowing from other parts of the system by the lymphatics; and, according to the views of Dr. Proutt as to the nature of absorption, is so far assimilated by this mixture also, before it is poured into the great veins in the state of chyle, to undergo the thorough agitation at both sides of the heart, and to participate in the changes at the lungs. What is absorbed from other parts of the body seems to be partly taken up by the veins, partly also by lymphatics which immediately convey it into adjacent veins; the remainder passes through lymphatic glands, and is there pretty certainly subjected to an intermixture and an interchange of particles with blood; after which it has necessarily much further adm'ix- ture, and two thorough agitations at the heart, as well as the exposure at the lungs, to undergo, before arriving at the left side of the heart. In those of the vertebrated animals which have no lymphatic glands, the thorough inter- mixture of the fluids contained in the lymphatic vessels is provided for by numerous plexuses,}: and, in the case of reptiles, by distinct lympha- tic hearts communicating with veins ;ยง and we are sure, that much of the matters absorbed in these animals, whether by veins or lymphatics, passes through the capillaries of the kidneys or liver, as well as the lungs, before reaching the arteries. When we see so much contrivance, evidently adapted for giving every facility to the gradual operation of the vital affinities subsisting among the constituents of the blood, before it reaches the scene of any of the acts of nutrition, secre- tion, or excretion, we cannot be surprised to find, that these acts themselves should appear to be so simple as the observations already quoted would seem to indicate. It must be admitted, that if we consider these contrivances in the higher animals as important agents in the elaboration of the blood, and con- sequent formation of the textures and prepared fluids of the body, there is a difficulty in under- standing how these objects can be accomplished * Tiedemann et Gmelin, Recherches, &c. t Bridgewater Treatise, ubi stipra. t Cuvier, Lemons, &c. t. iv. p. 98. ยง Miiller, ubi supra.