885 INSECTA. TABLE OF THE PARTS AND APPENDAGES OF THE HEAD. Fixed parts of the head—external surface. (a) occiput, including the foramen occipitale and base of the skull, and forming part of b, epicranium vertex, Kirby epicrane, Straus. (b 1) ocelli stemmata. c, oculi cornees, Straus. d, clypeus anterior .... ) nasus, Kirby chaperon, Straus. d,*clypeus posterior.... S clypeus, Fabricius n, gula, Kirby piece basilaire, Straus. e, labrum f, mandibulje Moveable parts of the head. maxilla?, into .., divided < 1, cardo, Kirby branche transversale, Straus, insertio, Newman 2, stipes, Kirby piece dorsale, Straus; maxilla, Newman 3, palpifer, Newman . .squame palpifer, Straus, bears 4, the maxillary palpus, h. 5, lacinia, Macleay, Newman; intermaxillaire, Straus, divided into— 6, galea, Fabricius; lobus superior, Kirby. 7, lobus inferior, Kirby. 8, unguis, Kirby. i, labium. { ligula, Newman; labium, Macleay. k, the labial palpi. /, mentum, Macleay; labium, Newman \ piece prebasi- m, submentum ..stipes, Macleay; insertio, Newman S laire, Straus. 12, lingua, Newman,.. .hypopharynx, Savigny. A, antennae r scapus. < pedicella. (. clavola. | Kir by. Sub-segments of the head. 1 st includes labrum and labium. Interior of the head. < os epipharyngeum, " " (os hypopharyngeum anterius. os hypopharyngeum posterius, jr. (, lamina? orbitales, w; and ossicula antenna- i£ rum or toruli, r. . sutura epicranii, p. % os transversum, x. 5th includes epicranium and gula / laminae squamosa?, s and v ; lames laterales, i Straus. V, tentorium, Burmeister, u; arcade, Straus. 2d includes clypeus anterior and mentum 3d includes clypeus posterior and submentum ., 4th, obsolete, orbits and bones of the antenna; . The above table exhibits the whole of the parts yet found in the cranium in the most perfect order of Insects, the Coleoptera; but it must be remembered that many of these parts are less perfectly developed in the other Orders, and in some of the species have not yet been discovered. Commencing our examination of the head at the posterior part of its upper surface, we observe that the occiput (a, Jig. 369) is that portion of its base which is articulated with the anterior margins of the prothorax. It is perforated by a large foramen, through which the organs of the head are connected with those of the body. It is very distinct in the Hydrous and most Coleoptera, and in some, the StaphylinidiE, Curabidte, and Silphidce, is constricted, and extended backwards so as to form a complete neck; but in others, as in the Curculionida, it is short and hardly distin- guishable from the epicranium (6), of which it is the continuation and posterior boundary. The epicranium is the whole of the posterior and upper surface of the head, bounded pos- teriorly by the occiput, laterally by the corneae and sides of the gula, and anteriorly by a tri- angular suture which extends from the anterior margin of the cornea? to the middle of the head between the eyes, where its apex unites with a longitudinal suture which extends along the median line to the occiput. This trian- gular suture is a marked character in the head of many insects, both in the larva and perfect state, and is of great importance in deter- mining the number of the sub-segments. It is very distinct in the larvae of Lepidoptera, and is as marked in the Melolonthida and the Staphylinida: as in the Hydrous. In some of the beetles it is indistinctly marked on the upper surface, but forms elevated ridges on the interior surface. This is particularly the case in the Hydrous. In the Dyticus it is more distinctly marked by a lighter colour of the skull, while in the common dung-beetles, Geo-