EDENTATA. 49 Fig. 33. Head of the Megatherium. sypus. The inferior maxillary bone varies no less in its form in the different genera of this incongruous order than the superior. It is greatly elongated and very slender in the Edentata proper, particularly in the Ant-eaters; the ascending plate is thin and small, the right and left branches of the bone are united at the symphysis to a considerable extent, and at a very acute angle. In the Sloths this bone ex- hibits a very different structure; it is short and deep, the ascending plate is broad and almost square, the angular process is very large, and the two branches of the jaw unite at the symphysis without an angle, the anterior por- tion of each side being curved inwards to meet its fellow. In the Megatherium the body of the bone is still higher and shorter, but the an- terior part is prolonged into a narrow and de- pressed groove somewhat similar to that of the elephant. The vertebral column.—The variation in the form and construction of the vertebra will be found to bear an exact relation to the habits of the different genera. The cervical vertebra of the A'i, Bradypus triductylus, have always, until very recently, been believed to form an excep- tion to the general law, which assigns seven as the strict number of these bones in the mam- miferous animals. That this number should exist equally in the hog and the giraffe is in- deed a remarkable fact, and may be considered as a striking illustration of the law by which variations in volume in any particular system of organs are provided for rather by the differ- ence in volume or in the relative proportions of the organs themselves, than by any abrupt change in their number. The supposed excep- tion to this law which now comes under our notice consists in the fact that the neck of the animal in question, (speaking of the part rather in reference to its use than in strict ana- tomical language,) is formed of nine vertebrae. Two skeletons in my own possession, however, have enabled me to demonstrate that the posterior two of these vertebrae (Jig. 34) have attached to them the rudiments of two pair of ribs in the form of small elongated bones articulated to the transverse processes of these bones, which are therefore to be considered as truly dorsal ver- tebrae, modified into a cervical form and func- tion, suited to the peculiar wants of the animal. The object of the increased number of ver- tebrae in the neck is evidently to allow of a more extensive rotation of the head; for as VOL. II. Fig. 34. Neck of the Sloth. each of the bones turns to a small extent upon the succeeding one, it is clear that the degree of rotation of the extreme point will be in pro- portion to the number of moveable pieces in the whole series. When the habits of this extraordinary animal are considered, hanging as it does from the under surface of boughs with the back downwards, it is obvious that the only means by which it could look downwards towards the ground must be»by rotation of the neck ; and as it was necessary, in order to effect this without diminishing the firmness of the cervical portion of the vertebral column, to add certain moveable points to the number possessed by the rest of the class, the ad- ditional motion was acquired by modifying the two superior dorsal vertebrae, and giving them the office of cervical, rather than in- fringing on a rule which is thus preserved entire without a single known exception. In the two-toed Sloth there is but one pair of these rudimentary ribs, and consequently only the first dorsal vertebra enters into the compo- sition of the neck. The dorsal portion of the vertebral column is particularly long in the Ant-eaters as well as the Sloth. These vertebrae are also generally more numerous in this than in most other groups—the great Ant-eater having sixteen, the A'i fourteen, and the (Jnau no less than twenty-three—a larger number than is found in any other mammi- ferous animal. The ribs offer some striking peculiarities in their construction. In the Ant- eaters and Armadillos they are excessively broad with the exception of the first and second. In the Myrmecophaga jubala and M. didacti/la they overlap each other in an imbricated man- ner on the upper part,—a conformation which gives great solidity to the chest. The Sloths and the Megatherium exhibit also considerable breadth of the ribs, but to a much less extent than that just described, and the latter animal, E