ANIMAL HEAT. 670 tion in the manner which has been indicated. In summer we may presume, nay we may be certain, that the differences obtain in degree according to the mean intensity of the heat proper to each. This is even to be proved by direct experiment. The month of August, as commonly happens, was not so hot as the month of July, and six sparrows treated in the same manner as those that were the subject of the July experiment already detailed, were found not to suffer refrigeration to the same extent. After the lapse of an hour the mean temperature of the six had sunk 1°, 62, and after three hours 4°, 87 c, from which it is ob- vious that with the successive declensions of the external temperature the faculty of engendering heat increases. This is demonstrated by the experiments quoted. The animals that were the subjects employed suffered a relatively less degree of refrigeration in the cooler month than they had done in the hotter, when exposed to the same measure of cold. In the first set of experiments performed in one of the coldest months of the year, the power of resisting cold was made particularly manifest. The sparrows, kept for three hours in an atmosphere at the temperature at which ice melts, scarcely suffered any loss of heat at all. The results of the three series of experiments detailed confirm, in every particular, the conclusions which had been come to analogically and a priori. They do more than this. They bear out equally the principles which had been deduced with refe- rence to the constitutions more or less favoura- ble to the production of heat. It is apparent, in the first place, that the influence of the summer and that of the winter act on the con- stitution in the same manner as the two opposed periods of early youth and adult age. Let us therefore inquire in what manner these different conditions tend to produce analogous effects. We have seen that the constitution of early life differed from that of adult age, especially in the inferior energy of the functions of innerva- tion and nutrition. Now this is that which constitutes or causes the principal difference between the winter and summer constitution of man. We generally feel ourselves weaker in summer than in winter, and our digestive powers are then also decidedly less vigorous. What completes the analogy is that the motions of circulation and respiration are accelerated in summer; and as a complement of the whole of these data, the temperature is somewhat higher in summer; just as we have seen that there is an epoch in youth when the tem- perature exceeds that which is proper to com- plete manhood. Thus, the parity between the constitution of youth (in the second period of childhood,) and that of the body in sum- mer, contrasted with the constitution of the adult age and that of the body in winter, exists in the three following relations :—1st, a lessened faculty of producing heat; 2d, greater activity in the motions of circulation and respiration ; 3d, a higher temperature of the body. But this faculty of adaptation to the different seasons inherent in the body is only observed in the better constitutions. That it may be manifested, it is necessary there be present a certain energy of the nervous system; without this even the moderate colds of winter will not be resisted. Without this the adult will have a constitution that will present analogies with that of early infancy. At present we merely mention the kind of constitution; we shall return to the subject by-and-by. Differences according to the nature of the climate.—The preceding facts render direct ex- periments to ascertain the influence of the tem- perature of different climates on the calorific power altogether unnecessary. This is so far fortunate ; for it were no easy matter to institute them to the extent and with the precautions necessary to security and satisfaction. The knowledge of these effects is a necessary con- sequence of the researches that precede. The temperature of warm climates is represented by the summer temperature of temperate climates, with this difference, that it is higher, and that with slight variations it continues through the whole year. Whence it follows that warm climates taken generally must produce effects upon the constitution analogous to those pro- duced by summer with us, only of greater intensity by reason of the higher thermometric range and longer continuance of the heat. The inhabitants of hot climates ought consequently to have an inferior degree of calorific power than those of temperate or cold countries, what- ever be the season. And we find, in fact, that the natives of the warmer latitudes of the earth present the characters in general that distinguish the constitution of the body in the summers of temperate countries, and characterizes the second period of youth—more rapid motions of the circulatory and respiratory systems, and a higher temperature, conjoined with an inferior degree of energy in the functions of innervation and nutrition. We shall not here enter upon the examina- tion of the effects upon the natives of these warmer latitudes from change of climate. We shall speak of this elsewhere. After the periodi- cal changes depending on the seasons we shall pass to others of shorter duration, but which revert much more frequently, and are under the influence of other causes. INFLUENCE OF SLEEP ON THE PRODUCTION OF HEAT. In the course of the twenty-four hours the body is in two very different and in some sort opposite states — the states of sleeping and watching. These two states are principally contrasted in the energy and weakness of the nervous system: from a perfect consciousness of all that is passing, we suddenly observe a complete suspension of this office in the whole circle of the functions of relation. At the same time the motions of the circulatory and respira- tory system become slower. No more is needed to lead to the conclusion that in this state the temperature must be lower; this is an inference we draw without risk of error. But the degree in which these motions are retarded is ex- tremely limited; and the depression of tem- perature must be expected to be in the same