998 INSECTIVORA. Fig. 446. carpal portion of the hand; and it is only the long sharp nails which extend beyond the skin, and are externally visible. The position then of the anterior extremity of the animal is this : the humerus is so placed that the inferior or distal extremity is the most raised, so that the fore-arm is kept in a state between pronation and supination, the elbow raised, the radius and the thumb placed down- wards, and the palm of the hand directed out- wards. When- to this we add the peculiar flexion of the last phalanx of the fingers with the enormous nails, we have a fossorial struc- ture not equalled by any other in the whole of the vertebrated animals, and only imitated by the no less remarkable anomaly amongst insects, the Gryllotalpa or mole-cricket. In Chrysochloris the third and fourth fingers are united by one large powerful nail, and are developed to an extraordinary size (fig. 445), Fig. 445. the fifth finger being reduced to a minute ru- diment; and the carpal bones are placed in an abrupt curve, so that the outer side of the fifth finger approaches the first. The os pisiforme as- sumes also a peculiar development, being very much elongated, rises in the direction of the forearm, and is actually articulated with the internal condyle of the humerus. The pelvis in the Talpida and Soricidee is extremely long. The ilia are narrow and pointed at the anterior part. In the last-named family, the pubis and the ischium are especially long and narrow. In Chrysochloris, on the contrary, the ischium is very broad. The femur offers but few and unimportant particularities amongst the Insectivora, unless it be that there is in the mole and Chrysochloris a sort of third trochanter; a process which is also found in some of the lower Quadrumana, and in some other of the Mammifera. The fibula is united to the tibia for nearly the inferior third of their length, in the Talpida, the Soricida, and the Erinaceada. In the mole this union is to a greater extent than perhaps in any other animal of the Mammiferous class. The hinder feet in the whole of this order are plantigrade. In the mole, as Daubenton and Meckel have observed, there is an addi- tional tarsal bone, to those which are ordinarily found. It is of considerable size, and seems to answer to the falciform bone of the anterior extremities already described. It is of an uniform shape, of considerable size, and is arti- culated between the scaphoid and the first cuneiform bone, and extends forwards along the first metatarsal. II. Muscles.—The extraordinary develope- ment of the bones of the anterior extremity in the mole, will, of course, be associated with a no less remarkable structure in the muscles of the same part; and the known habits of the animal will account equally for the necessity of such a structure in both. I give a figure of the muscles of the anterior extremity and of the anterior part of the trunk from Cams. (Fig. 446.)