ERECTILE TISSUE. 145 small, pale, soft, and shrunken; but when excited to erection, they become increased in size, stiff, red, and distended with blood, at the same time that their sensibility is remark- ably exalted. The foregoing remarks apply equally to the cutaneous papillae, particularly those on the pulpy extremities of the fingers, where the sense of touch is developed in its highest degree of perfection. Erectile tissue has also been recognised in the callosities on the buttocks of some of the quadrumana, in the comb and gills of the cock, the wattles of the turkey, and in the tongue of the chamelion.* It is not improbable that this tissue enters into the structure of the and Beclard seems disposed to consider that it exists in the spleen, as well from the appearance which that organ presents when a section of it is made, as from the different states in which it is found on opening the bodies of animals; being sometimes contracted and corrugated on the surface, and at other times plump, smooth, and swollen. In some of the situations above enumerated, the erectile tissue is enclosed in a fibrous sheath which limits its extent and determines the form of the organs in which it occurs; while in other situations it is deployed superficially, as in the tegumentary organs. It is in the corpora cavernosa penis and corpus spongiosum urethrae, however, that the erectile tissue has been more especially made the subject of anatomical and physiological research ; and the results of the investigations instituted in these organs have been rather inferred from analogy than directly proved as equally applicable to it in all other situations in which its existence has been indicated. According to De Graaf, Ruysch, Duverney, Boerhaave, Haller, and Bichat, the cavernous bodies of the penis and urethra consist of a loose and elastic spongy tissue formed of in- numerable cells, into which, during erection^ blood is poured from the arteries, and from which it is afterwards removed by an absorbing power of the veins. Such an opinion wou^d" accord with the appearances observed o&h examining sections of this structure after having been inflated and dried, but careful examina- tion of it when previously prepared by injec- tion, proves the foregoing opinion to be founded in error. Vesalius, who appears to have directed his attention to the particular nature of this struc- ture in the penis, describes it as composed of innumerable fasciculi of arteries and veins closely interwoven, and included in an invest- ing srieath. Malpighi considered it as composed of diver- ticula or appendices of veins. • Mascagni, who at one time believed in the existence of cells interposed between the veins and arteries, in consequence of subsequent researches abandoned that opinion, and de- monstrated the fact, that a plexus of veins with arteries corresponding, but smaller and less * On the structure and mechanism of the tongue of the chamelion, by J. Houston, in Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy, vol. xv. VOL. II. numerous, formed the corpus spongiosum urethrae, glans, and plexus retiformis, and that the arteries entering this substance terminated in the commencement of veins. Mr. Hunter remarked that the corpus spon- giosum urethrae and glans penis were not spongy or cellular, but made up of a plexus of veins, and that this structure is discernible in the human subject, but much more distinctly seen in many animals, as the horse. &c. Subsequent researches respecting the struc- ture of the penis and clitoris of man, the horse, elephant, ram, &c. have been instituted by Duverney, Mascagni, Baron Cuvier, Tiede- mann, Ribes, Moreschi, Panizza, Beclard, Weber, &c and the result has been a con- firmation of the views developed by Vesalius, Malpighi, and Hunter. Moreschi, in particular, has shewn that the corpora cavernosa penis, corpus spongiosum urethrae, and glans consist of a congeries of fine vessels in all animals, whether covered by skin, hairs, spines, or scales; and that these vessels, which are principally veins, are characterized by their abundance, tenuity, and softness, which distinguish them from the veins in the muscles and other parts of the body. The annexed figure (Jig. 97) from Moreschi Fig. 97.