HERMAPHRODITISM. 692 male genital organs are liable may be traced to stoppages in the above process of development, the character of the malformation depending upon the period of the development at which the arrest takes place, and varying consequently in degree from the existence of a cloaca or permanent primitive fissure common to the intestinal, urinary, and generative organs,* to that want of closure, to a greater or less extent in different instances, of the inferior surface of the canal of the urethra in the body of the penis, or in its glans, which is generally known under the name of hypospadias. When the development of the male organs is arrested, immediately after the two septa respectively separating the canals of the intestine and urethra from the original perinaeal cleft are formed, and consequently when this perineal fissure and that running along the inferior surface of the penis are still open, the external genital parts often come to present at birth, and during the continuance of life, a striking resemblance to the conformation of the external organs of the female, and the resemblance is frequently rendered greater by the coexistence of other malformations of the male organs. In these cases the imperfect and undeveloped penis is generally of small size, and, at the same time, from being imperforate, may readily be mis- taken for the clitoris; the two halves of the divided scrotum have the appearance of the two labia externa; the two labia externa or nymphs are sometimes represented by the lateral divisions of the penis forming two folds, which run backwarks along the internal surfaces of the split scrotum; and the cleft in the perinaeum corresponds in situation and direc- tion, and occasionally also in size and form, with the canal of the vagina; this cleft is generally lined also by a red mucous membrane that is kept, like the natural female parts, con- stantly moistened by the secretions of the follicles with which it is provided; its mucous membrane occasionally presents irregular eleva- tions imperfectly representing the caruncute myrtiformes; and, further, the opening of the urethra at the root of the diminutive and im- perforate penis serves still more to assimilate the malformed parts to the natural conformation of the female organs. In a number of cases, however, the apparent analogy to the female parts is rendered less striking by the perinaeal cleft being small or altogether absent, the urethral orifice at the root of the penis often forming the only opening leading to the internal urinary and generative parts, and the halves of the scrotum in such instances being frequently more or less perfectly united. Generally the seminal ducts, and sometimes also the ducts of Cowper's glands, are seen opening on the surface of the urethra or supposed vaginal canal, at a short distance from its external orifice. In males malformed in the manner described, the testicles are seldom found in the divided * See on this malformation in the human subject (the normal form of structure in birds, &c.) Meckel on kloakbildung in his I'alh, Anat. Bd. i. s. 693. scrotum at birth, but commonly they descend into it through the inguinal rings towards the period of puberty ; and in several instances on record, in which the sex of the individual had been mistaken for that of a female, the tumours formed in the groin at that time by the organs in their descent have been erroneously regarded and treated as hernial protrusions. At the same time it occasionally happens that with the descent of the testicles, and the arrival of puberty, the diminutive penis enlarges in size, and the individual assumes more or less fully the habits and attributes of the male. In several instances on record this change has, under venereal excitation, appeared to occur suddenly, and persons formerly reputed female have thus unexpectedly found themselves pro- vided with an erectile male penis. These various changes are occasionally postponed for a considerable period beyond the usual term of puberty. In a few rare instances one testicle only de- scends through the inguinal ring, and occasion- ally they both remain throughout life within the abdomen, in or near the situation in which they are originally developed, imitating in this ab- normal state the normal position of the same organs in many of the males among the lower animals. In a number of instances in which the testicles are thus retained within the cavity of the abdomen, they are found small and im- perfectly developed, and from the want of their usual physiological influence upon the consti- tution, the whole physical and moral character of the malformed individual frequently presents a considerable approximation to that of the female, or, as we should perhaps more justly express it, never attains the perfection of the male, but preserves that kind of common or neutral state exhibited by the constitution of both sexes before the specific sexual characters of each are developed at the time of puberty. Numerous curious examples of mistakes having been committed with regard to the sex of males affected with the above species of mal- formation have now been put on record, from the time at which Iphis, the daughter of Ligdus, king of Crete, was conceived to be changed into a man by the miraculous interference of Isis, down to the present day. Pliny, (lib. vii. chap.iv.) has noticed several cases; and in the treatise of Duval on hermaphrodites a number of additional instances are collected from Livy, Trallian, and others, some of them no doubt invested (as most of the details regarding her- maphrodites in the older authors are) in much misrepresentation and fable, but others bearing every mark of accuracy and authenticity. In more modern times the sexes of individuals have often been mistaken in consequence of this variety of malformation. Jean Chroker* relates, in apparently the most authentic man- ner, the case of Magdelain Mugnoz, a nun of the order of St. Dominique in the town of Ubeda, who was changed, as he supposes, into a male, seven years after having taken the vows. * Fat. Histor. cent. i. and Arnaud, Dissertation sur les Hermaphrodites, p. 200.