559 ORGAN OF HEARING. B. Development and irregular conditions of' the tympanum and external ear. 1. Of the tympanum and its contents. 1, The cavity of the tympanum.—A prolon- gation or diverticulum of the mucous mem- brane of the throat, extending to the periphe- ral surface of the labyrinth, and forming, with its blind end, a dilatation there, gives us the simplest idea of a tympanum and Eustachian tube. According to Huschke*—and his views are more or less supported by Burdach,f Rathke,J and Valentin,§—the cavity of the tym- panum with the Eustachian tube is a metamor- phosis or remains of the first branchial fissure. iJence, in its origin, the tympanum has nothing in common with the labyrinth. Valentin|| found the Eustachian tube and cavity of the tympanum, in an embryo at the seventh week, under the form of a conical or pyramidal fossa. This fossa gradually extends into a tube, at first short and wide, but after- wards longer and narrower in proportion as the cavity of the tympanum becomes developed, and recedes from the cavity of the mouth. The Eustachian tube is at first simply membra- neous. About the middle of pregnancy, ac- cording to Meckel^ and Burdach,** the third month according to Valentin, it acquires a cartilaginous investment. The blind membraneous pouch which repre- sents the cavity of the tympanum is at first very small and contracted, and is to be distin- guished from the walls of the tympanum, which it invests. The peripheral surface of the laby- rinth forms, as is known, the inner solid wall of the tympanum, and the tympanic ring and membrana tympani the outer wall. In pro- portion, therefore, as these parts, and also the mastoid process are developed, so does the tym- panic cavity acquire its proper form, and is more and more withdrawn, both from the cavity of the mouth and the lateral surface of the head, with the integument of which it is, at an early period, in contact. The prolongation of the mucous membrane of the pharynx forming the Eustachian tube and cavity of the tympanum, is at first very vascular, soft, and loose, like the mucous mem- brane of the nasal and guttural cavities; but after birth it loses its vascularity, and assumes a more simple character. United by loose cellular tissue to the subjacent osseous wall, it applies itself over all the elevations, and dips into the depressions of it, and moreover forms folds in which the ossicles are enveloped. The cavity of the tympanum is in the foetus filled with a mucus, sometimes transparent, some- * Isis von Oken, Jahrg. 1827, p. 401; Jahrg. 1828 p. 161; Jahrg. 1831, p. 951 ; and Meckef's Archiv fur Anatotnie nnd Physiologie, 1832, p. t Die Phvsiologie als Erfahrungswissenschaft. Bd. ii. p. 465. X Anat. physiol. Untersuchungen liber den Kiem- enapparat und das Zungenbein, 1832, p. 120. § Handbuch der Entwickelungsgeschichte dcs Menschen, p. 211. || L. c. p. 211 and 212. If Manuel d'Anatomie, &c. torn. iii. s. 1948, p. 197. 1 ** Op. cit. Bd. ii. p. 465. times bloody, and varying from the consistence of water to that of a thick jelly. The cavity of the tympanum has been found sometimes unusually contracted; sometimes, on the contrary, very much dilated. Non-de- velopment of the Eustachian tube would be necessarily attended by non-development of the tympanum, but. not contrariwise. Absence of the Eustachian tube and cavity of the tym- panum has only been found in foetuses, in other respects monstrous. ■ In describing the development of the osse- ous labyrinth, it has been already mentioned that its peripheral surface, which forms the inner solid -wall of the tympanum, begins to be ossified towards the end of the third month. An ossific point first appears on the promontory at the circumference of the cochlear fenestra, and gradually extends upwards, downwards, for- wards and backwards. At this time there is no trace of mastoid process. In the fourth month the sinuositus mastoidea begins to ap- pear, and the cavity of the tympanum be- comes somewhat wider. The aqueduct of Fal- lopius is not yet ossified, noi the canals for the muscles of the stapes and malleus, a state of parts found permanent in most of the lower mam- mifera, and also frequently met with in the irre- gular conditions of the ear in man. When the cochlea is arrested in its developement, the pro- montory is small in proportion or entirely wanting. In the fifth mouth the aqueduct ofFallopius and the canals for the muscles of the stapes and malleus are ossified. In this month, also, the vestibular fenestra is found completely formed, and appears proportionally larger than in the adult. In the sixth month, the temporal bone being altogether more developed, and the mas- toid process having begun to appear, the cavity of the tympanum increases in capacity, espe- cially its upper part, and the sinuositas mas- toidea. The direction and situation of the cochlear fenestra vary much at the different periods of formation, which is owing chiefly to the degree of development of the promontory. The vestibular and cochlear fenestra are sometimes found unusually small, or even en- tirely wanting, the latter being obliterated by an extension of osseous substance, the former by the same cause, or by anchylosis of the base of the stapes. The cochlear fenestra some- times appears to open into the vestibule, but this is when the cochlea is in a very rudimentary state. Such a condition may be compared with the state of parts found m the bird's ear. Little or nothing is known of the origin and development of the membrana tympani. It may be looked upon as the persistence of that septum which exists at an early period at the opening of all mucous canals, and which is produced by the meeting of the indentation inwards of the skin with the diveiticulum of the mucous cavity of the blastoderma. The membrana tympani is larger in proportion, and more vascular the younger the fcetus is. The form, situation, and direction of it in the fcetus is dependent on the tympanic ring, and is quite different from what is found in the adult. In regard to form, it is rounder. As to situation,