257 FIBRINE. the latter, it does not promise more successful results: should secondary hemorrhage succeed to it, there is little prospect that the ligature of the iliac would afterward succeed, and the uncertainty existing with regard to the point of origin of the profunda raises a very strong ob- jection against it, inasmuch as we cannot know whether the origin of that vessel be above, below, or at the point at which the ligature is to be applied: it is further exposed to the difficulty, before adverted to, which is likely to arise in cases of high origin of the profunda, in which that vessel may be taken for the femoral, and thus another source of embar- rassment be encountered. In the performance of it the following struc- tures will present: 1. the skin ; 2. the subcu- taneous cellular stratum along with the inguinal glands and the superficial inguinal vessels of the latter: those which are most exposed to be divided are the superficial epigastric and its branches ; the superficial anterior iliac and the superficial pudics may be encountered, but they are less likely; 3. the superficial lamina of the iliac portion of the fascia lata; and 4. the prolongation of the fascia transversalis, which forms the front of the femoral sheath. An incision three inches long will suffice ; it should commence above Poupart's ligament, and be continued in the line of the vessel for two inches below it. If the superficial vessels bleed, on division, so much as to interfere with the course of the operation, they should be at once secured; otherwise they will probably cease themselves, and give no further trouble. The lymphatic glands, if in the way of the incisions, may be either held aside or removed. The fascia lata and sheath may be treated in the same manner as in the other operations described; they can be easily distinguished in consequence of the thin stratum of fat which is usually interposed. The insulation of the artery and the passage of the needle require the same precautions as in the operations at other parts of the vessel's course. The vein being placed along the inside of the artery the needle should be passed from that side. The crural nerve and its branches are here altogether safe, as they lie without the femoral canal, but, as has been before pointed out, the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve may be included in the ligature; it will be most certainly avoided by the careful insulation of the artery: the operator should also assure himself, before tying the ligature, that no fila- ment is enclosed. Should two arteries present, as described in the anatomy of the profunda, and a question arise as to which is the femoral, the criteria pointed out will enable the operator to decide (see profunda artery); and the difficulty will, almost certainly, be altogether avoided by cut- ting directly upon the centre line of the femoral as ascertained by its pulsations. Operation on the profunda artery.—From the anatomical details it follows that in the ma- jority of cases the profunda is situate, in the VOL. II, first stage of its course at least, at the outer or iliac side of the femoral artery, though upon a plane posterior to that vessel: it has also, at the same time, the same coverings, differing only in being contained in a sheath proper to itself; and hence, if necessary, the profunda might be reached in that situation by an opera- tion similar to that for exposing the femoral itself at the same place, in which much advan- tage would be obtained by first exposing the latter vessel, and following it as a guide to the origin of the former; which, if in its usual situation, will be exposed by displacing the femoral inward, and then the proper sheath of the profunda should be opened to a certain ex- tent, in order to allow the application of the ligature at a sufficient distance from the origin of the vessel. But in the inferior stages of its course it may be laid down, as a general rule, that it cannot be reached from the front of the thigh, inasmuch as, with the exception of those cases in which it is throughout external to the femoral, and in which, from its deep position, and the want of a guide to its exact situation, the rule will yet equally apply, it is not only more deeply seated, but it is separated from the anterior surface of the limb by the super- ficial femoral artery, and by the femoral, pro- funda, and circumflex veins, as well as by the coverings of the femoral vessels, and lastly by the adductor longus muscle. In any case, did circumstances render necessary the attempt to tie the profunda, it would be an operation in which much uncertainty and difficulty must be anticipated, in consequence of the varieties presented by that artery in its origin and course. For Bibliography see ANATOMY (INTRODUC- TION), and A RTEU Y. ( B. Alcock.) FIBRINE, {Ywfibrine; Germ. Faserstoff.) Under this name physiologists and chemists have generally described the animal proximate principle constituting that part of muscular fibre which is insoluble in cold water, and that portion of the coagulum of blood which re- mains after the removal of its colouring matter. The fibrine of blood is best obtained by stirring a quantity of fresh-drawn blood with a piece of wood, to which the coagulum adheres, and may afterwards be washed in large and repeated portions of water till it loses its co- louring particles, and remains in the form of a buff-coloured, fibrous, and somewhat elastic substance; this may then be partially dried by pressure between folds of blotting-paper, di- gested in alcohol to remove fat, and then care- fully dried, during which process it loses about three-fourths of its weight, and becomes brittle and of a yellowish colour: it is insipid and in- odorous. In cold water it slowly resumes its original appearance but does not dissolve: when, however, it is subjected to the long- continued action of boiling water it shrinks and becomes friable, and a portion of a newly- formed substance is at the same time taken up by the water, which gives it a yellowish colour and the smell and taste of boiled meat, and s