713 HERMAPHRODITISM. malformed male, the penis being short and im- pervious, the scrotum divided, and the urethra opening into a contracted perineal fissure re- sembling the female vulva. This animal had often attempted connection with the female sheep. Borkhausen* has described a very similar case in the same species of animal. Each half of the divided scrotum contained a testicle which was regularly formed, but greater in size than usual, and furnished with a large sperma- tic artery. The pelvis contained a normal uterus, which was smaller, however, than na- tural ; it was provided with its usual ligaments. The Fallopian tubes were present but imper- forate, and the two ovaries were full of vesicles and inclosed in a strong membrane. The vagina was natural and opened as in the female. Behind the divided scrotum the rudiment of an udder with four teats (instead of two) was situated. The male penis was also present, but diminutive and short; its erectores muscles were small, and the prostate gland indistinct. The urethra was single as it left the bladder, but it afterwards divided into two canals, the wider of which opened into the female vagina and vulva, and the narrower ran through the male penis. The urine passed in a full stream through the former canal, and only by drops through the latter. The animal is alleged to have attempted coition in both ways. In 1829, an account of an hermaphroditic goat was published at Naples, which is said to have been provided with both female ovaries and male testicles.f The two ovaries occupied their usual situation ; no Fallopian tubes were found ; but there were present a double-horned uterus with blind cornua, and a vagina which opened externally, as in the female. In the neighbourhood of the ovaries, and more ex- ternal than them, two small testicles were dis- covered, having two vasa deferentia arising from them. The vasa deferentia ran down- wards to two corresponding vesicular seminales, that were placed alongside of the uterus. In the lower angle of the external pudenda, a body, resembling in length the male penis more than the female clitoris, was situated : it was, as we have already had frequently occasion to mention in regard to the penis in malformed male quadrupeds, of a very tortuous or con- voluted form. We have had an opportunity of examining an excellent preserved specimen of double herma- phroditism in the sow, referable to the present section, which was met with some years ago by Dr. Knox, and we have his permission to state here the following particulars of the case. Among the internal female organs there is present a natural well-formed double uterus, provided with broad ligaments and two hollow cornua, each about six or seven inches in length. The fimbriated extremities are not distinctly marked, the female tubes appearing to end * Rheinisches Mag. zur Erweiterung tier Natur- kunde. Giesscn 1793. Bd. i. s. 608. t Brevi ccnne su di un Neulvo Capro; or, Gurlt's Patholo^ischen Anatomie, Bd. ii. s. 198. blind at their upper terminations, as they have often been observed to do in similar cases. The os uteri opens inferiorly into a vagina, which seems normal in its structure. At a short distance from the upper extremity of each horn of the uterus, two bodies of considerable magnitude are seen lying in close juxta-position. The smaller of these two bodies is on either side about the size and shape of a large almond ; and though internally of an indeterminate amorphous structure, they are considered by Dr. Knox as answering to the two ovaries. The two larger bodies, which are placed between the supposed ovaries and the upper extremities of the cornua uteri, are most dis- tinctly testicles, as shewn by their numerous tor- tuous seminiferous tubes, which have been suc- cessfully filled with a mercurial injection. They are of the full size of the organ in the adult male. The seminiferous tubes of each testicle terminate in a vas deferens, which was injected from them ; and the two vasa deferentia run downwards through the ligamenta lata of the uterus, and terminate inferiorly in the upper- part of the vagina, thus following the course of those natural canals in the female sow that we shall afterwards have occasion to allude to at greater length under the name of Gaertner's ducts, and which Dr Knox, from the evidence of the present case, believes to be in reality typical of the male vasa deferentia. There is no trace of vesicular seminales. Externally the vagina opened along with the urethra upon the perinoeum, at a point lower than natural in the well-formed female. The clitoris in situa- tion and size was nearly normal. The animal at the time of death was fourteen months old ; it was ferocious in its habits ; and it had been in vain tried to be fattened. It had repeatedly shewn strong male propensities, and at the season of heat its vagina is said to have presented the usual injected appearance ob- served in the female sow. Dr. Harlan of Philadelphia* has lately described a still more perfect instance of dou- ble hermaphroditism than any of the preceding, which he met with in the body of a gibbon or orang outang, from the Island of Borneo (Simla concolor). This animal died of tuber- cular disease in Philadelphia in 1826, when it was considered to be under two years of age. Dr. Harlan gives the following account of its sexual formation. The penis (jig.ZO^, a) was about one inch in length, and subject to erec- tions ; it terminated in an imperforate glans ; and a deep groove on its inferior surface served as a rudimentary urethra. This groove extended about two-thirds of the length of the penis, the remaining portion being covered with a thin articular diaphanous membrane, which extended also across the vulva (fc), and closed the external orifice of the vagina. The vagina was rather large, and displayed transverse striae. Traces of the nymphte and labia externa were visible. The meatus urinarius opened beneath the pubis into the vagina, but the urine must have been directed along the groove of the penis by the * Med. and Pliys. Researches, p. 19.