550 ORGAN OF HEARING. and upwards. In the dry bone it is wide enough to admit the end of a quill stripped of its feathery part, about one-twelfth of an inch thick. In the recent state, when lined by its mucous membrane, it is very much narrower. The car tilaginous and membraneous portion of the Eustachian tube,pars curlitagineaet mem- branacea tuba Eustac/ut.—In the skull it is ob- served that the osseous part of the Eustachian tube is continuous with a sort of gutter which is formed by the outer and anterior side of the petrous bone, and the posterior inner and lower margin of the great wing of the sphenoid bone. To this gutter the external wall of that part of the Eustachian tube under consideration, which is partly cartilaginous and partly fibro-membra- neous, corresponds at its tympanic extremity; towards the guttural orifice of the tube, the membraneous wall is applied against the circum- flex muscle of the palate. The inner, and also the upper wall of this portion of the Eustachian tube, is formed of a grooved cartilaginous la- mina of a triangular form, fixed by dense cel- lular tissue to the irregular extremity of the osseous portion, to the apex of the petrous bone, and to the root of the inner plate of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. At the guttural orifice of the Eustachian tube, it forms a semilunar prominence with its convexity turned upwards and backwards. The cartila- ginous plate of the outer wall does not extend to the mouth of the tube, but only fills up that place where the outer wall of the bony groove above-mentioned as continuous with the osseous part of the Eustachian tube is defective, that is, from before the foramen spinosum of the sphe- noid to the scaphoid fossa at the root of the in- ner plate of the pterygoid process. The cartilaginous and membraneous portion of the Eustachian tube is about one inch long. Being compressed from within outwards, a sec- tion of it is an elliptical fissure. From its junc- tion with the osseous portion, it goes on widen- ing, so that the point of junction is the narrow- est part of the tube;—in the recent state, about one-thirtieth of an inch in diameter, just suffi- cient to admit a small probe. The mouth of the Eustachian tube in the throat forms an oval-shaped fissure, about three-eighths of an inch long, bounded ante- riorly and posteriorly by prominent swollen edges. The fissure is directed obliquely from above downwards, and from before backwards, and is situated at the upper and lateral part of the pharynx behind the soft palate. In refe- rence to the nasal passage, my observation agrees with that of Kramer,* that the lower angle of the guttural orifice of the Eustachian tube lies a very little deeper than the horizontal line of the lowest meatus, whilst the upper angle is a little deeper than the horizontal line of the middle meatus. The Eustachian tube is essentially a tegumen- tary canal; through it atmospherical air is ad- mitted into the tympanum, a condition which, by keeping up an equable pressure on either side of the membrana tympani, and giving free * Die Erkenntniss unci Heilung der Ohrenkrank- heiten. Berlin, 1836. p. 243. scope to the play of the small bones upon each other, is necessary for the perfect exercise of hearing. Its lining membrane is continuous with that of the throat on the one hand, and with that of the tympanum on the other. At the guttural orifice of the tube, it has all the properties of the mucous membrane of the nose and throat; as it approaches the tympa- num it becomes thinner and finer, until it assumes all the characters of the fibro-mucous lining of the tympanum. Within the osseous portion of the tube, it no longer presents any of the mucous glands which are found in the mucous membrane of the prominent edges of the guttural orifice, and in that lining the carti- laginous and membraneous portion—mucous glands, which perform so important a part in the economy, and particularly the morbid states, of the Eustachian tube and apparatus of hear- ing generally. Fig. 252. The two muscles of the small bones, and the Eusta- chian tube. (From Soemmerring.) a. b. c. d. Eustachian tube ; e. muscle of the mal- leus ; f. the muscle of the stapes. 2. The external ear, including the auditory passage. A. The auricle or the ear, (auricula s. pin- na,) Fr. pavilion de L'oreille; Germ, das Ohr.— The human auricle, as is known, presents on the surface directed outwards, prominences bounding gutter-like depressions, which wind like a maze in different directions; but all lead at last into the auditory passage. Considered in a general way, the surface directed outwards is concave. The surface turned towards the side of the head is, on the contrary, generally speaking, convex, but it is depressed at the places corresponding to the elevations on the outer surface, and more elevated where the de- pressions are. The hem-like fold of the edge of the ear all round is called helix. The eminence within the helix is called ant helix, and the gutter-like depression between the two is called the navi- cular fossa. At its upper extremity the anthe- lix divides into two branches, between which is a triangular depression calledfossa innominata. The lower extremity of the anthelix runs into a projection called antitragus, opposite which, and under the anterior part of the helix, is a broad projecting plate called tragus, which lies over the entrance of the auditory passage