835 ILIAC ARTERIES. and the anterior sacro-sciatic ligament, passing between the pyriformis and the ischio-coccygeus muscles, and having the ischiatic artery and sciatic nerve both external and posterior to it. Its second stage is situate without the pelvis ; it is usually its shortest one, lasting only while the artery is crossing the extremity of the spinous process of the ischium, and not exceed- ing an inch in length ; it is here situate behind and above the spinous process and the anterior or lesser sciatic ligament; it is covered poste- riorly by the superior edge of the posterior liga- ment and by the gluteus maximus muscle ; it is internal to both the ischiatic artery and sciatic nerve, and it is crossed posteriorly by the coccygean branch of the former. The third stage of the artery is its longest and most important one; during it the vessel is situate within the skeleton of the pelvis, though not within the pelvis, in the ordinary sense of the phrase, i. e. within its visceral ca- vity, being excluded therefrom by the struc- tures which form its floor; it lies along the inside of the tuberosity of the ischium and the rami of the ischium and pubis, and its course and relations being different at the posterior and an- terior parts of the stage, they may with advan- tage be considered separately. In the posterior part, or as far forward as the anterior extremity of the tuberosity or the base of the triangular ligament of the perinaeum, the artery descends ; in the anterior it ascends; in the posterior it is situate in the outer wall of the space which in- tervenes between the inside of the tuberosity of the ischium and the rectum—the ischiorectal space. This space is cuneiform, its base below, toward the surface ; its apex above, toward the pelvis; its inner wall is formed by the levator ani and the dense thin expansion by which the mus- cle is covered externally or inferiorly, its outer by the obturator fascia attached inferiorly to the edge of the great sacro-sciatic ligament and of its falciform process, and by the obturator muscle: the space is occupied by a mass of adipose cel- lular structure, traversed by some branches of the pudic vessels and nerves. In a canal in the obturator fascia the artery is contained through the posterior part of the third stage ; by some it is maintained to be between the fascia and the muscle, in a sort of canal formed inter- nally by the fascia, externally by the muscle and tuberosity, and inferiorly by the great sciatic ligament; but this is not correct; the vessel being in the fascia, and not external to it; the line of its course is convex downward, about an inch and a half from the under Surface of the tuberosity of the ischium at its most de^- pending part, and from two to two and a half inches from the surface, this distance varying of course according to the condition of the sub- ject ; the line approaches the margin of the ramus or the spinous process, thence forward or backward. In the anterior part of the stage the vessel is enclosed in the triangular ligament along its attachment to the bone; consequently, it is separated from the surface by the superfi- cial stratum of this structure first, in the second place by the eras penis, covered by the ischio- cavernous muscle, and behind it by the trans* versus perinei muscle; and lastly, by the super- ficial structures of the perineum. As the artery proceeds it becomes more superficial, and finally emerges from the triangular ligament, beneath the subpubic ligament, as the dorsal artery of the penis. It is in its third stage that the pudic artery is exposed to danger in the lateral operation of lithotomy; it may be wounded in either of the two steps of dividing the urethra and prostate or the subsequent division of the superficial structures: in the former case, the danger of the accident will be greatest when the section is effected with the scalpel or gorget, and in pro- portion to the width of the blade, and the de* gree to which the cutting edge may be directed outward, will the clanger be enhanced ; in the second, the risk will be alike with all cutting instruments, and will be determined by the width of the blade, the attention paid to a pro- per degree of lateralization, the manner in which the instrument is made to effect a divi^ sion of the parts, and the extent of the section. The branches of the pudic artery are numerous, and may be conveniently arranged according to the stage of its course, in which they are given off. In its first, before its exit from the pelvis, it gives branches to the bladder, the rectum, the vesiculae, prostate, vagina, and uterus; it also frequently furnishes the middle hemor- rhoidal. In its second stage, while external to the pelvis, it gives branches to the gluteus, the pyri' formis, the obturator and gemelli muscles, the sacro-sciatic ligament, the ischium, and sacrum ; they anastomose with the ischiatic, the gluteal, and internal circumflex arteries. Those which arise in its third stage are the most important. 1. The artery gives, while on the inside of the tuberosity of the ischium, branches which are distinguished into external and internal; the former are small, and go to the adipose structure beneath the tuberosity, to the attachment of the biceps, to the obturator intern us, and the integuments : the internal are larger ; they come through the obturator fascia, run inward toward the anus, and are distributed to the adipose cellular structure of the ischio- rectal space, to the levator and sphincter ani, to the extremity of the rectum, and the margin of the anus; they anastomose with branches of the middle hemorrhoidal artery and with those of the other side : they are variable in number, being one, two, or three, and are denominated " external hemorrhoidal;" they are liable to be divided in operations in the vicinity of the anus, e. g. in the superficial incision in the lateral operation or in operation for fistula; they are, however, so small that they seldom give trouble, either ceasing to bleed spontane- ously, or being commanded by brief compress sion. 2. The perineal artery.—At a short distance from the base of the triangular ligament the pudic gives off a branch of considerable size and length, by many regarded as one of its ultimate branches ; the pudic, according to them, terminating by dividing into two branches, an inferior, " the perineal," and a superior 3 I 2