10 DIGESTION. while the veins, in common with all those that be- long to what are termed the chylopoietic viscera, terminate in the vena portae.* The nerves of the stomach are not only very numerous, but they are remarkable for the number of different sources whence they derive their origin. These are, in the first instance, threefold ; it is fur- nished with a large quantity of ganglionic nerves, in common with all the neighbouring viscera; it likewise receives nerves directly from the spinal cord, and unlike all the other parts of the body, except what are termed the organs of sense, it has a pair of cerebral nerves in a great degree appropriated to it. The specific uses of these different nerves are not certainly ascertained, and it would scarcely fall under the immediate object of this treatise to enter upon the consideration of this point; but we may observe, that no organ, in any part of the body, partakes more fully of what may be considered as the actions of the nervous system, or is more remarkably affected by its various changes, including not merely those of a physio- logical nature, but such likewise as are con- nected with the various mental impressions.f The two extremities of the stomach, by which the food is received and discharged, are respec- tively termed the cardia and the pylorus. Their structure, in many respects, differs from that of the other parts of the organ. The cardia is remarkable for the great proportion of nerves which are distributed over it, and as these are principally derived from the par vagum, or the eighth pair of cerebral nerves, we may under- stand why this should be the most sensitive part of the stomach. The pyloius is remarkable for the mechanical disposition of its muscular fibres, which form an imperfect kind of sphinc- ter, by which the food is detained in the cavity until it has experienced the chemical action of the gastric juice. And besides the functions which are actually possessed by this part, many imaginary and mysterious powers were ascribed to the pylorus by the older physiologists. The sensibility of the stomach was supposed to reside more especially in this extremity ; it was selected by some of the visionary philosophers of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries as being the seat of the soul, and even some of the moderns ascribe to it a kind of intelligence or peculiar tact, by which it is enabled to select the part of the alimentary mass, which has been sufficiently prepared to enter the duodenum, while it prevents the remainder from passing through its orifice, and retains it for the purpose of being still farther elaborated.]: On account of the form and position of the stomach it is sufficiently obvious, that a con- siderable proportion of its contents must be, at all times, below the level of the pylorus. The food is hence prevented from passing too hastily out of the organ, while we may conclude that * Winslow, sect. viii. § 2. 72. .7 ; Haller, El. Phys. xix. ). 16. .20; Blumenbach, Jnst. Physiol. § 356 ; Bell's Dissect, p. 19 . . 25. pi. 3, 4. t Winslow, ubi supra, 78, 9; Haller, xix. 1. 21 ; Blumenbach, § 355; Bell's Anat. v. iv. p. 64; Walter, Tab. nerv. No. 3, 4. i Richcrand, Physiol. §23. § 111, 2. the transmission of the food is almost entirely effected by the contraction of its muscular fibres, aided probably by the diaphragm and the abdominal muscles, but scarcely in any degree by the mere action of gravity.* It must, however, be observed that the position of the stomach generally, with respect to the neighbour- ing organs, as well as the relation of its different parts to each other, varies considerablyaccording to its state of repletion ; when it is the most fully distended, its large arch, which previously was pendulous, is now pushed forwards and raised upwards, so as to be nearly on the same level with the pylorus.f When the food leaves the stomach, it is re- ceived by the intestinal canal, a long and winding tube, which varies much in its diameter and its form, in the different parts of its course, but which, both in its anatomical structure and in its physiological functions, bears a consider- able resemblance to the stomach. It may be said, in the same manner, to consist of three essential parts, the membranous, the muscular, and the mucous, which respectively serve to give it its form, to enable it to propel its con- tents, and to furnish the necessary secretions. With respect to the form of its individual parts, it has been divided, in the first instance, into the large and small intestines, a division which depends upon the comparative diameter of the two portions, while each of these has been sub- divided into three parts, depending more upon their form and their position than upon their structure or functions. But although it may be supposed, that the division of the tube into the great and small in- testines refers to their difference of size alone, it is to be observed that they perform very differ- ent functions, and are subservient to very differ- ent purposes in the animal ceconomy. It is in the small intestines, and more especially in the first portion of them, termed the duodenum, that what must be considered as the most essen- tial or specific part of the function of digestion is effected, the formation of chyle, while it is almost exclusively in the duodenum and the other small intestines, the jejunum and the ileum, that the chyle thus produced is taken up by the lacteals, in order to be conveyed to the thoracic duct, and finally deposited in the bloodvessels. The use of the large intestines, and more es- pecially of the colon, which constitutes a con- siderable proportion of the whole, appears to be more of a mechanical nature, serving as a depo- sit or reservoir, in which the residuary matter is received and lodged, for a certain period, until it is finally expelled from the system. The division between the parts of the small intestines, to which the names jejunum and ileum have been applied, is entirely arbitrary, as they ap- pear to be precisely similar to each other, both in their structure and their functions. But the case is very different with respect to the duode- num, which in both these respects possesses a clearly marked and distinctive character. Of * Haller, ubi supra, §2. .4. t Blumenbach, § 353.