139 ENTOZOA. Planaria in the species Planaria torva. Upon separating the individuals, he perceived a long white tube projecting from the genital pore of each, proving the reciprocity of fecundation. Notwithstanding the complicated apparatus above described, the Planaria, are remark- able for their spontaneous fissiparous gene- ration, and the facility with which detached or mutilated parts assume the form and func- tions of the perfect animal. Fig. 92, o, repre- sents a Planaria lacteu, with the anterior part of the body artificially divided in the longitu- dinal direction; Jig. 92, e, shews the same in- dividual having two perfect heads, the result of the preceding operation. The female generative organs of the Lingua- tula (Pentastoma) tanioicles present a struc- ture in some respects analogous to that of the DisUnna pcrlatum: the ovary (n, n, Jig. 78) is a part distinct from the tubular oviduct, and is attached to the integument or pa- rietes of the body, extending down the middle of the dorsal aspect. It consists of a thin stratum of minute granules; clustered in a ramified form to minute white tubes, which converge and ultimately unite to form two oviducts (o, o, Jig. 78). These tubes pro- ceed from the anterior extremity of the ovary, diverge, pass on each side of the alimentary canal, and unite beneath the origins of the nerves of the body, so as to surround the oesophagus and these nerves as in a loop. The single tube (p) formed by the union of the two oviducts above described, descends, winding round the alimentary canal in numerous coils, and ter- minates at the anal extremity of the body. The single oviduct, besides receiving the ova from the two tubes (o, o), communicates at its com- mencement with two elongated pyriform sacs {m, m), which prepare and pour into the ovi- duct an opaque white secretion. These bodies, from their analogy to the impregnating glands in the Trematoda, I was led to regard (in the description, published in the Zoological Trans- actions, of the only individual of this interesting species that I have hitherto been able to pro- cure for dissection,) as testes, and the gene- ration of the Linguatula to be androgynous, without reciprocal fecundation; individuals, however, of the male sex have since been de- scribed in this species by Miram* and Diesing. The male Linguatula is, as in dioecious Entozoa generally, much smaller than the female: the generative apparatus consists of two winding seminal tubes or testes, and a single vas deferens, which carries the semen from the testes by a very narrow tube, and afterwards grows wider. It communicates anteriorly with two capillary processes, or penes, which are connected together at their origin by a cordiform glandular body, repre- senting a prostate or vesicula seminalis. The external orifices of the male apparatus, accord- ing to Miram, are two in number, and are situated on the dorsal aspect of the body, just behind the head. Diesing, however, describes the male Pen- * Nova Acta Acad. Natura= Cuiios. tom.xvii. tastomu as having only a single penis, which perforates the interspace between the second and first segments of the body, and protrudes below and behind the oral aperture. Much interest attends the consideration of the reproductive organs of the dioecious En- tozoa, since they are the first and most simple forms of the animal kingdom which present that condition of the generative function. In the Acanthocephala the structure of the generative apparatus has been ably elucidated by Cloquet in the species which commonly infests the Hog, viz. the Echinorhynchus gigas. The male organs consist of two testes, two vasa defe- rentia, which unite together to terminate in a single vesicula seminalis, and a long penis gifted with a particular muscular apparatus. The testes (J', ft, Jig. 93) are cylindrical bodies, pointed at both ex- Fig. 93. tremities, of nearly the same magnitude, but situated one a little anterior to the other. The anterior one is attached by a filamentary process (g) to the posterior extremity of the proboscis: the posterior gland is connected by a similar filament to the in- ternal parietes of the body. The vasa deferentia (i), after their union, form seve- ral irregular dilatations (/c), which together constitute a lobulated vesicula seminalis. This reservoir is filled with a white grumous fluid like that which is found in the testes, and it is embraced posteriorly by the retractor muscles of the penis (r, r), which form a kind of coni- cal sheath for it. A small, firm,white, and apparently glandular body (q) is situated at the point of union between the vesi- cula seminalis and the penis. The penis is a straight, cylindrical, firm, white or- gan, and in the retracted state is terminated by a di- lated portion (o), occupying , „ the posterior extremity of Male organs of gene- & b , fa hj , ^ ration, Jzchinorhun- { ' . . r chus gigas. pears when the mtromittent organ is protruded. This action is produced by the muscles s, s, when the penis presents the form of a short broad cone, adhering by the apex to the caudal extremity of the body: it is retracted by the muscles r, ;■, above described. The female organs consist of two ovaries and one oviduct. The former are long and wide cylindrical canals, which of themselves occupy almost the whole cavity of the body extending from the proboscis to the tail (//, h, Jig. 83) They are situated, one at the ventral, the other at the dorsal aspects of the body, and