492 GLAND. with Ruysch that the bloodvessels and the secreting canals are continuous with each other, is clearly shown; in short, Rolando was the first modern anatomist, who, following in the footsteps of Malpighi, pointed out the manner in which the inquiry ought to be prosecuted, and thus laid the foundation of those laborious and interesting researches for which science is principally indebted to the German anatomists, and by which, within the last few years, the subject of the glandular organization has been so strikingly elucidated.* Development.—The investigations of Har- vey, Malpighi, Rolando, Weber, Meckel, Bar, Valentin, Rathke, Miiller, and many other anatomists, have very satisfactorily determined the manner in which the glands are in general developed. It is, however, necessary to pre- mise that these observations principally relate to those glandular organs which are appended to the alimentary canal, especially the salivary glands, the pancreas, and liver; for as regards the development of those glands that are subordinate to the secretion of urine and to generation, comprising essentially the kidney and the testis, much uncertainty still prevails, although it is rather generally believed that the corpora Wolffiana, or false kidneys, are in some way or other connected with their primary for- mation.f From the researches that have been made with so much care, we learn that, although there are many modifications of the formative process in the different classes of the glandular organs, there are yet certain fixed laws in obedience to which they are produced. As the development of the individual glands is, how- ever, considered in the several articles on those organs, it is only requisite to describe in this place in a general manner, and without no- ticing the modifications of the general rule, the process of formation. In prosecuting this inquiry two different objects present themselves for examination,—the primitive substance in which the gland is developed, and the internal component parts, consisting essentially of the secreting tubuli and the bloodvessels. 1. Every gland is formed from a portion of the primary plastic and amorphous mass (blastoderma) of which the body of the embryo consists. 2. This mass is at first gelatinous, extremely delicate and diaphanous; it subsequently be- * Journ. Comp. des Sc. Med. xvi, p. 54, p. 57. P. b'3. The honour of discovering the mode in which the glands appended to the alimentary pas- sage are formed by pushings-out of that tube has been by Burdach improperly attributed to Rathke. t It would be inconsistent with the perfection of the formative process to conceive that either the kidney or the testis requires the aid of any other glandular organ for their development; besides which it may be mentioned that there is no actual connexion between the above glands and the corpora Wolffiana. Rathke observes. " Although they (corpora Wolffiana) are not organically connected with the kidneys and genital organs, they appear to be, in an early period of the life of the embryo, the precursor or representative of the kidney." Burdach, II. Band. p. 646. comes thicker and less transparent. In the beginning it is solid, and in the case of those glands which are appended to the alimentary canal,—that is to say, the salivary glands, the liver, and the pancreas, (and the same laws are observed in the formation of the lungs,*) it appears as a projection on the mucous mem- brane. (Fig. 222, A.) a B ■PiL a 6 D A plan designed to show the first origin of the glands. a, b, alimentary canal; g, gland. (The letters have the same signification in A, B, C, D.) 3. In a short time this rounded mass begins to project on its external surface, and thus forms a number of lobes, or, as it were, little islands, which, by the continuation of the same process, become more and more numerous and smaller in size; and thus,according to the cha- racter of the gland examined, are at length formed all the minute lobes of which it con- sists. (Fig. 222, B.) 4. Simultaneously with this development of the outer surface of the plastic mass, but quite independently of it, a metamorphosis is going on within, by which the internal canals, which subsequently become the secreting tubes, are formed. In the first instance a hollow or cavity is noticed communicating with the tube of the intestine, and which subsequently be- comes the principal or excretory duct. When it first appears it is a simple sac, (fig. 222, C,) but in proportion as the projections or lobes are formed on the external surface, lateral branches are added to the principal duct; and these again become more and more ramified, till an indefinite number of tubes are formed. (Fig. Ill, D.) * Rathke, in Burdach's Phy. II. Band. p. 580, edit. 1837. Valentin, 1. c. p. 501 et seq.