449 GENERATION. Some time after sexual union the fluid con- tained in the vesicles which are about to burst, previously transparent and nearly colourless, now becomes more viscid and tenacious, some- what turbid and of a reddish colour; and in some animals it is possible in such ripe vesicles to perceive, with the unassisted eye in a favour- able light, a whitish opaque spot on the most prominent part, indicating the layer of granules or proligerous disc, in the centre of which the ovum is situated. After a certain time a small opening is formed at the most prominent part of the coverings of the vesicle, the vesicle bursts, and its contents escape through the opening; they are received in the infundibulum, which is now applied firmly against the ovary ; and the ovum entering the Fallopian tube is conveyed along it, probably by its slow and gradual ver- micular contractions, until it at last arrives in the uterus. With regard to the time at which the opening of the ovarian vesicles takes place, there are considerable varieties in the same and in diffe- rent animals. In the sheep, the vesicle has been found burst so early as at two hours after coition. In the dog, Haller found the vesicles burst before the sixth day ; in one instance the day after coition ; but Prevost and Dumas, not until the seventh or eighth. In the rabbit, Cruikshank observed vesicles burst two hours after coition, while Haighton considers forty- eight hours as the usual time at which the rup- ture happens in this animal. M. Coste has observed it most frequently between the second and third day in the rabbit. After the bursting of the Graafian vesicles, there occur in them and in the neighbouring part of the ovary some important changes of structure, which claim our attention in this place as intimately connected with that part of the process of conception which is now under consideration. If the Graafian vesicle which is enlarged from venereal excitement and is ready to burst, be examined with care, it will be seen that at the most prominent part of its coats the blood- vessels converge towards the point at which rupeds, (Annal. d. Scien. Nat. torn. iii. p. 135,) but without any certainty or exact knowledge as to their nature. M. Coste, with a spirit of appropria- tion too common, we regret to say, among his coun- trymen, has taken advantage of some speculative views ami strained analogies brought forward by Baer concerning the bodies which he discovered, in which he compared them (erroneously as we think) to the germinal part only of the ovum, rather than to the whole ovum of the oviparous animal, to take from the merits of Baer in their discovery ; but we feel assured that every unprejudiced inquirer who reads with attention Baer's admirable " Epistola de Ovi Mammalium et Hominis Genesi," in which his discovery was first announced in 1827, and compares it with other works on the subject, will be convinced that Baer has no sharer in the discovery, and fully understood the nature of the ovarian ovum of viviparous animals; although it may be the case that subsequent investigations have added considerably to the knowledge of the relations of these ova. We shall return to a more minute detail of this body in considering the process of formation of the ovum in the present article and under the article Ovum. the rupture afterwards takes place, and this point is itself comparatively destitute of blood- vessels.* At the time of the formation of the opening into the vesicle, from the division of some of the bloodvessels, a small quantity of blood is generally mixed with the fluid contents of the vesicle; and after the vesicle has been emptied of these fluid contents, their place is generally supplied by a greater or less quantity of coagu- lated blood, probably poured out by the same ruptured vessels. The membranes of the vesicle at this time have become thicker than before: the inner one in particular appears more vascular and uneven, perhaps in part from its being puckered up on the vesicle becoming flaccid and com- paratively empty. The wrinkled appearance on the inner surface of the vesicle increases, and there grows gradually out from it a new substance which comes to occupy the whole cavity of the vesicle; and in many instances, as this new substance is formed in greater quantity than can be contained within the limits of the vesicle, it protrudes some way out at the opening of the vesicle, forming a dark red prominence like a nipple, which rises above the neighbouring surface of the ovary. This substance, at the time of its first formation, is of a pink or reddish colour, but as it becomes gradually less filled with blood it acquires a yellowish hue, which is more or less apparent in different animals. In the human species it is of a bright yellow colour, whence the name of corpus luteum applied to this new produc- tion of the ovarian vesicles. The substance of the corpus luteum has a lobular structure; the lobules radiating in a somewhat irregular manner from the centre to the circumference. The central part of the corpus luteum frequently remains hollow for some time after its production, opening ex- teriorly by a narrow passage from the place where the rupture of the vesicle originally took place; at other times this passage is closed more early, and there remains nothing but an indication of its place in a depression in the centre of the most projecting part of the corpus luteum. The lobules of the corpus luteum, examined with the microscope, exhibit merely a granular structure, and are not formed of acini, as some have described them, so that there is no reason to consider these bodies as of a glandular nature. The size which corpora lutea attain when fully developed varies much in the same and in different animals. In the human female they become as large as a common hazel-nut; in the cow they are sometimes as large as a ches- * The ovarian capsules of the bird, which are obviously the analogous parts of the ovarian vesicles of quadrupeds, present on their most pro- minent part a remarkable band, extending for nearly one-third of the periphery : towards the margins of this band the small bloodvessels all converge, but they do not pass upon the band itself, so that it is left free from bloodvessels. It is in this non-vascular or less vascular part of the capsule that the rupture takes place when the yolk escapes.