130 ENTOZOA. E'4 78. ihey gradually become - expanded and blended ;* with the muscular tissue. I® _ In the Strongylus gigas, a slender nervous ring (a, a, Jig. 79) sur- rounds the beginning of the gullet, and a single chord is continued from its inferior part and ex- tends in a straight line along the middle of the ventral aspect (c, d) to the opposite extremity of the body, where a slight swelling is formed im- mediately anterior to the anus, which is surround- ed by a loop (e) analo- gous to that with which the nervous chord com- menced. The abdominal nerve is situated internal to the longitudinal mus- cular fibres, and is easily distinguishablefromthem with the naked eye by its whiter colour, and the slender branches (b, b) which it sends off on each side. These transverse twigs are given off at pretty regular intervals of about half a line, and may be traced round to nearly the opposite side of the body. The entire nervous chord in the fe- male of thisspecies passes to the left side of the vulva, and does not di- vide to give passage to the termination of the vagina, as Cloquet de- scribes the corresponding ventral chord to do in the Ascaris Lutnbricoides. In the latter species, and most other Nematoidea, a dorsal nervous chord is continued from the oesophageal ring down the middle line of that aspect of the body corres- ponding to the ventral chord on the opposite aspect; but we have not found the dorsal chord in the Strongylus gigas. The nervous system in the latter Entozoon obviously therefore ap- proximates to that of the Anellides; but it differs in the absence of the ganglions, which in all the red-blooded worms unite at regular inter- vals two lateral nervous columns ; it resembles on the other hand most closely the simple and single ventral chord in the Sipunculus. Living Ascarides are sensible to different mechanical stimuli applied to the surface of the body, and the sudden and convulsive movements which take place when alcohol, vinegar, or alum-solution are applied to the mouth, would seem to imply that they possess a sense of taste: tor light, noise, or odour they 111 Nervous system and fe- male organs of genera- tion of Linguatula tce- nioides, magnified. mm mm Commencement and termina- tion of the nervous system, Strongylus gigas, magnified. Fig. 79. are, as might be ex- pected from the sphere of their ex- istence, totally in- sensible. In those Entozoa which infest the parts of an animal body, where they may be exposed to the influ- ence of light, as the gills of fishes, we should not be un- prepared to meet with coloured eye- specks, or such sim- ple forms of the or- gan of vision as oc- cur in Infusoria and other invertebrate animals of a low grade of organiza- tion. Nordmann de- tected four small round ocelli, of a dark-brown colour, in the Gyrodactylusauriculatus, a Cestoid worm, found in the branchial mucus of the Bream and Carp ; the eye-specks are situated a little way behind the head, and yield on pressure a blackish pigment. V. Baer observed two small blackish ocelli behind the orifice of the mouth in the Polystomum Integerrimum, a Trematode species, which infests the urinary or allantoid bladder of the Frog and Toad. Now this large receptacle is well known to contain almost pure water; and as the Poly- stomum is very closely allied to the Planaria, which habitually live in fresh water, it is pro- bable that the allantoid bladder may be only its occasional and accidental habitation. With respect to the Planaria these are almost univer- sally provided with eye-specks, varying in num- ber from two, as in the Planaria lactea, (Jig. 80, A) to forty, of a brown or black colour, the external covering of which is tran- sparent and corneous. From the experiments of M. Duges* on these non-parasitic Stere.lminthu, we learn that when the solar light is directed to the head, they escape from its influence by a sudden move- ment, and they also give unequi- vocal, though less energetic, proofs of their subjection to the influence of diffused and artificial light. The temporary ocelli observed in the young of certain species of Dis- toma\ will be presently noticed. * Annales des Sciences Natnrelles, 1828, p. 10. t Conf. also Rudolphi, Synops. Entoz. p. 442, where, in the description of the Scolex polymor- phus, a Cestoid worm infesting the intestines of Fish and Cephalopoda, he observes, " punctu duo volo corporis albi sanguinea, sa?pe lulgentia, qualia nullis in Entozois aliis videre Iicuit, quaeque in Gobii minuti Scolece vasa duo rubra parallela pone caput incipientia et retrorsum ducta, in corpore autera evanida, effingere observavi."