751 HERNIA. process of the ilium. As these are but different stages of the same disease, both come under the appellation of hernia by the oblique descent. But, 3, when the viscus has been forced through the parietes immediately behind the external ring, and passes out through that natural aperture only, it is then for obvious reasons termed the hernia by direct descent; and although the external characters of the tumour are not always such as to point out the peculiar nature of this protrusion, yet the relative posi- tion of the intestine with respect to adjacent parts must be somewhat different in these seve- ral cases, a difference that will be found to be of some practical importance. The peritoneal sac, as viewed internally in the direction of the iliac and inguinal regions, is described by Scarpa as being divided into two great depressions at each side, the medium of partition being the ligament into which the umbilical artery of the foetus had degenerated, together with the fold of peritoneum raised by that ligament. Of these fossa? the superior or external is the larger and deeper; it is that within which the intestines are collected when strongly compressed by the abdominal muscles and by the diaphragm in any violent exertion; and from it inguinal hernia is most frequently protruded, as the ligament and duplicature of the peritoneum prevent the compressed viscera lodged in this fossa from removing out of it to descend into the pelvis. The situation of the umbilical artery varies considerably: some- times it is close upon the internal border of the internal ring, in other subjects at the distance of half an inch from it, or even more; but it is always at the pubic side of the epigastric ves- sels. Thus, in its direction upwards and in- wards towards the umbilicus it crosses ob- liquely behind the inguinal canal: all hernia?, therefore, by the oblique descent pass out from the external or superior abdominal fossa, while those by the direct are in relation to and are protruded from the inferior or internal. Inde- pendent of this configuration there is nothing in the peritoneal cavity as viewed from within, to determine the occurrence of hernia at one place rather than at another. The membrane is in all parts equally smooth and polished, equally strong,* tense, and resisting. This, however, is not the case with respect to the muscular and tendinous walls of the abdomen, which vary very considerably in density and strength in different situations, and in these qualities dissection shews that the hypogastric or inguinal regions are the most deficient and therefore most disposed to permit of the occur- rence of hernia. In prosecuting the dissection from within (which is by far the most satisfactory manner), the peritoneum may be detached by the fingers or by the handle of the knife in consequence of the laxity of the cellular tissue connecting it to * The strength of the peritoneum is proved by a curious experiment of Scarpa's. He stretched a large circle of this membrane recently taken from the dead body, on a hoop like a drum, and found it capable of supporting a weight of fifteen pounds without being ruptured. the adjacent external structures. The fascia transversalis then comes into view, and in it the aperture termed the internal ring, through which the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female are transmitted. This aponeurosis varies in density and thick- ness in different individuals : it is continuous with the fascia iliaca, and is connected with the posterior edge of Poupart's ligament: it is denser and stronger externally, and becomes weaker and more cellular as it approaches the mesial line. Where the internal oblique is muscular, the connexion between it and the fascia transversalis is extremely lax, cellular, and easily separable; but after it becomes tendi- nous, the union is much more intimate, and the fibres of the one can scarcely be distinguished from those of the other unless by the difference of their direction. In most subjects the internal ring is very indistinct, its size, shape, and direc- tion being in general determined rather by the knife of the anatomist than by nature. So far as the fascia is concerned, the external inferior border of the ring is its strongest part, but its internal edge seems to be the stronger as it is supported by the epigastric vessels, and some- times by the remnant of the umbilical artery. Its size is about an inch in length, half an inch in breadth ; its shape oval; and the direction of its longest diameter perpendicular or slightly inclining from above downwards and outwards. The position of the epigastric artery with re- spect to the neck of the sac at once points out whether a hernia is by the direct descent or not, for it marks the internal or pubic boundary of the internal ring. This vessel is occasionally irregular in its origin, but in its normal or usual state it comes off from the external iliac before it has reached Poupart's ligament, and conse- quently in that position it lies behind the bag of the peritoneum, which it passes by forming an arch, the concavity of which is directed up- wards. It then appears in front, between the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum, but more closely attached to the former, with which it remains when the membrane is torn away. The vas deferens is seen coming from the pel- vis obliquely upwards and outwards until it reaches the spermatic artery, which, having de- scended from above, nearly in a perpendicular direction, meets the vas deferens at rather an acute angle, the former being to the outside and nearly in front of the latter. These vessels having passed the fascia transversalis disappear by arching round the epigastric artery and en- tering the inguinal canal, and they define the inferior margin of the internal ring. The re- mainder of its border is not so very distinctly marked, partly in consequence of a very deli- cate fascia which is given off from it and passes down a short way on the spermatic cord, where it becomes indistinct and is lost; and partly because the transversalis muscle lying before it renders the view obscure. The internal border of the internal ring is always (as stated by Sir A. Cooper) midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis pubis. When a protruded viscus, then, is passing