ORGANS OF GENERATION. 423 powerful muscular sheath, calculated to en- sure the expulsion of tha fluid which they elaborate. The most remarkable arrangement cf Cow- per's glands is seen in the Ichneumon (Her- pestes Ichneumon, Illiger): in this animal they are very large and occupy their usual position, being invested with v. strong muscular coat; but their excretory ducts, instead of termi- nating as usual in the bulbous portion of the urethra, are prolonged beneath the penis nearly to the extremity of that organ, where they open into a cul-de-sac common to them and the canal of the urethra. Accessor!/ vesicles. — These are auxiliary glands, which pour their secretions into the canal of the urethra. They appear, when present, to take the place of the prostate, being only found where that organ is deficient, and accordingly, although of a totally different structure from that body, they have been called prostates by various authors. They are usually packets of membranous cceca, more or less ra- mified, and in the season of sexual excitement are filled with a fluid resembling that contained in the vesiculae seminales. These organs exist in all Rodents except Squirrels, Marmots, and Hares, and also in the Hedgehog and the Mole, but have not been found in any other mammalia. They are invariably composed of intestinules or branched cceca, arranged in packets, the number of which varies much. Thus ia the Mole there are five such bundles, forming a mass of ramified tubes larger than the bladder ; in the Hedgehog there are four, and in Cricetus vulgaris and Dasyproeta Aguti two fasciculi. But besides the secreting structures above enumerated as forming the ordinary appendages to the male generative system of Mammifers, additional ones are occasionally found, placed out of the positions in which the succenturiate glands usually exist. Thus in Solipeds a long ccecum containing a glairy fluid is placed be- tween the insertions of the vasa deferentia, which communicates with the urethra by an appropriate orifice; and in Cricetus and manv of the Murida: the ends of the deferent canals before their termination are provided with bunches of small glandular follicles, which in the former resemble small bunches of grapes. The annexed figure, (fig. 208,) representing the male generative viscera of the Hat (Mus liattus) exhibits an example of the greatest com- plication of these parts, and will serve to illus- trate the situation of the organs above described. A represents the bladder turned forwards, B the rectum, and C the testis of the left side. The succenturiate glands here found are a, a, the vesiculic seminales; b, the anterior fasciculus of the accessory vesicles or anterior prostate of some authors, which on the opposite side is un- ravelled to display the cceca which compose it; c, the middle prostatic cceca; d, the anterior prostatic cceca. These all communicate with the urethra, and in addition to these we have on each side the racemose bunch of follicles (e) which is appended to the termination of the vas deferens ( /'). Structure of the penis.—The great difference between the penis of Mammifers and that which has been described as existing in the oviparous vertebrata, consists in theinclosure of the canal of the urethra, which is no longer a simple groove formed by the junction of the corpora cavernosa, but becomes surrounded with a cy- linder of erectile tissue usually denominated the corpus spongiosum urethra. The corpus cavcrnosum, which generally forms the great bulk of the organ, arises by two crura, which are firmly attached to the rami of the ischium in the males of all placental Mammalia; and even in the Cetacea, where there is no pelvis, two bones placed on each side of the corpus caver- nosum give a support to the penis, which is attached to them by fibrous ligaments; never- theless, in the Marsupiata the crura of the corpus cavernosum are quite free, or only loosely attached to the ischiadic bones by the muscular sheaths in which they are en- veloped. The crura of the corpora cavernosa unite to form the body of the penis, their union being generally marked by a strong septum, which more or less completely divides the organ into two lateral halves. In some animals, as in the Dog, this septum is very distinct; but in other cases, especially in many of the Plantigrade Carnivora and in most of the Pachydermatous and Cetaceous tribes such a partition is entirely wanting; in such cases the fibrous lamellae, which arise from the dense capsule surrounding this portion of the penis, and traverse the vascular tissue which is con- tained in its interior, unite at a central- part in a kind of cord formed by their union. In some anima's the organ is supported by a bone developed in its interior: this arrangement exists in the Quadruniana, Cheiroptera, the lJluntigrade and Digitigrade Carnivora (ex- cept the Hyaena), and in the Rodentia, also in Seals and Cetaceans. In a few instances it is so large as to form a large portion of the penis, as in Whales ; in others, as in many Carnivora and Rodentia, it is extremely small, but what- ever its form or size it is invariably found in- timately connected with the corpus caverno- sum. The urethra, as in man, consists of a mus- cular and of a vascular portion, the former receiving the ducts of the succenturiate and