INSECTA. 931 and perhaps also with those of Anthophora, in which, although the flight of the males is as rapid as that of the females, we suspect that it is not so long continued. But in Anthidium mankatum the number of hooks is in corres- pondence with the apparently greater power of wing in the male, which pursues his partner unceasingly, and darts down upon her with great rapidity at the season of connubiality. A similar remark is applicable to the male of the hive-bee, which at the period of swarming is exceedingly active, and constantly on the wing in the open air, in search of the queen or solitary female, who leaves the hive but for a few hours on the first or second day after swarming. Now we have seen that the number of hooks in these males is greater than in the females, and that their powers of flight are also greater, and that in'the Bumbi the reverse is the case with regard to both these circum- stances. Consequently it is but fair to infer that the number and strength of the hooks are in direct relation to the powers of the insect. We have before remarked that the different forms and appendages of the body are invariably the result, not of the introduction of new elements into the composition of parts, but of the greater or less extent to which those primary parts are developed. There is a beau- tiful illustration of this principle in the develop- ment of the hamuli, which are only spinous processes often observed on the wings of other insects. In proof of this we need but examine the wing of the common working-bee, in which there are several of these spines arranged in a line with the hamuli, and inserted in a similar manner into the nervure of the wing upon which the hooks are situated. In some instances the transition of form from that of spines to hooks is distinctly marked. Those which are most distant from the proper hooks retain the perfect form of spines, while those which are nearest are bent in the same direction, but to a less extent than the pruper hook, but sufficiently so to mark very distinctly their proper analogy. In Hemiptera, instead of being connected by hooks as in IJymenoptera, the whole margin of a portion of the anterior wing is hooked over a corresponding recurved part of the posterior, as formerly noticed by Chabrier* in the Pentu- tomida. In the Ilomoptera the wings are con- nected in the same manner as in Hemiptera, as noticed by Mr. Ashlonf in Membracis curnuta. This is also the case in other Ilomoptera. Thus in Tettigonia bifasciata there is a triangular membranous process extending from the anterior margin of the inferior wing, and which on its distal border is furnished with four very dis- tinct but exceedingly minute hooks, resembling those of Hymenoptera. This process of the posterior wing is curved a little upwards and received into a fold of the posterior margin of the anterior wing. There is a similar structure in the wing of Cercopis sanguinolenUi, with this difference, that the hooks are very indis- * Sur le Vol des Insectes. t Proceedings of the Entomological Society of London in Transactions, vol. ii. p. 20. tinct, while the triangular process of the wing is more pointed and hooked upwards. In Tettigonia spumaria the structure is exactly the same. In lassus viridis the triangular process is shorter, but more extended along the costal margin of the wing, and is furnished with a great many very minute imperfectly de- veloped hooks, which attach themselves to the 4 folded linear margin of the anterior wing. The legs, the proper organs of locomotion, are constantly six in number in every order of insects, but are subject to much variety of form. Each leg is composed of five distinct parts. First, (jig. 332 and 398,) the coxa (a) or basial Fig. 398. Legs of insects, from Barmeister, Curtis, and Hope. joint, which is inserted into the acetabulum, and connects the limb with the thorax. Of this part the trochantin is believed to be an appendage. Secondly, the trochanter, a minute joint attached to the extremity of the coxa. It is not lettered in our figure of the leg (jig. 332, 3, 4), but is placed between the coxa and the third portion of the limb, the femur (b), with which it is freely articulated. The femur is the proper thigh of the insect, and in general is of considerable size. It is con- nected by ginglymoid articulation to the fourth portion of the limb, the tibia (c), which is usually a long slender joint, at the extremity of which is articulated the fifth and last portion, the tarsus (d). This part is always composed of several distinct joints, varying in number in different insects from two to six. The more common number is five. These are the pri- 3 p 2