ECHINODERMATA. 33 firmly joined to one another, form by their union a shell approaching more or less to a spherical figure, (Jig. 10, A, B.) The shell is covered outside by a membranous integu- ment, spines, and other appendages; on the inside it is lined by the peritoneum. It is Fig. 10. A. Fig. 10. B. Echinus esculentus opened, intestine removed. A, under half of shell. B, upper half, o, oeso- phagus cut. b, termination of the intestine. c, c, c, ovaries, d, d, vesicular laminae of the feet. At e, e, the lamina? are removed to show the perforations for the feet. perforated above for the anal orifice of the intestine (6), and below it presents a much larger opening, which is closed by the mem- branous integument, except in the middle, where the mouth is situated (fig. 15). The pieces composing the shell are mostly five- sided, transversely oblong, and disposed in twenty vertical rows or columns, which extend from the anus to the inferior opening. Ten of the columns are narrower, and consist of smaller pieces, (fig- 10, e, e,) which are perforated with holes for the feet; they are thence termed ambulacral. The other ten are broader, and consist of larger pieces (f,f). The ten am- bulacral columns are disposed in five pairs, with which the ten larger columns, also dis- posed in pairs, alternate. The two columns of each pair are joined by a zigzag line. The VOL. II. upper ends of the columns are connected with ten plates, alternately larger and smaller, placed round the anus; the larger perforated for the passage of the oviducts, and named ovarial plates, the smaller also perforated by a smaller hole, which is connected with the vascular sys- tem. At its lower edge the shell sends inwards a process in form of an arch over each pair of the ambulacral columns (g, g, g). The number of plates in a row varies with the age of the animal, increasing as it grows older and larger. They are marked on the outside with tubercles or knobs, of various sizes, which support the spines. The spines themselves have a cup-like cavity at their base, which is connected with and moves on the prominent tubercle, the union being effected at the circumference of the articulation by the soft irritable integu- ment, or, according to some, by distinct mus- cular fibres. Besides the spines, there exist on the external surface of the Echinus appendages (fig. 11), of the same nature as the claw-like organs of the Asterias, only that in the Echinus the sort of forceps which they bear at their extremity for the most part consists of three blades. Fig.U. The shell of the irregularly-shaped Echinida differs considerably in structure from that of Echinus. The division into plates is less ob- vious, and in some cases disappears altogether. The series of holes or ambulacra do not extend uninterruptedly from the anus to the lower orifice. Lastly, in Clypeaster the shell is di- vided interiorly, by vertical calcareous parti- tions, into five compartments which commu- nicate together, the septa being incomplete. c. The integuments of the Holothuriae differ considerably in different species. In those species in which there is a marked distinction of the dorsal and ventral surface of the body, the integument differs in character on these two surfaces : in other cases it is pretty nearly uniform over the whole body. It in general consists of a white fibrous layer, which consti- tutes its chief thickness, and a soft coloured layer and epidermis placed more exteriorly. In some species the skin exhibits hard conical warts scattered over the dorsal surface; in others it contains imbricated calcareous scales. In H. phantapus, in addition to these scales, which are about a line in breadth, the in- tegument, according to our observation, is thickly beset with small calcareous eminences, about ^5 of an inch in diameter, resembling, except in size, the short calcareous processes on the upper surface of the Asterias. A calcareous ring, forming in many species the only hard part of the body, surrounds the