210 FACE. this period, and often much later, two remark- able fissures. 1. The incisive fissure, which may be traced from the alveolar border be- tween the canine and lateral incisor tooth backwards and upwards, along the incisive canal towards the nasal process: it is sel- dom observable on the facial surface of the bone. The part of the bone circumscribed by this fissure appears to correspond to the inter- maxillary bone of animals, and is probably developed as a separate piece : it supports the incisor teeth. 2. A fissure is often found ex- tending from the infra-orbitar groove forwards to the orifice of the canal. The existence of these fissures has led some anatomists to sup- pose that the bone is developed by these ossitic points. At birth and in infancy the bone presents a much greater proportion from before back- wards than vertically: its nasal process is long, its orbitar plate large, the antrum is already distinct, the tuberosity prominent, and there are some remarkable holes behind the incisor teeth, which are said to have an important connexion with the development of the second set of teeth. In the adult the increase in the vertical di- mensions corresponds with the developement of the antrum and alveolar border. In old age the alveoli are obliterated, the border con- tracts, and the jaw diminishes in height. In the small vertical diameter the senile and in- fantile upper jaw bear a resemblance to each other. In the inferior mammalia, the maxillary bones are separated anteriorly in the middle line by a bone called os intermaxillare or incisivum, which contains the superior incisor teeth when they are present; sometimes this bone is distinctly divisible into two by suture. This bone is present, although the superior incisors be absent, as in Ruminants and Eden- tata, but in such cases is very small: on the other hand, when the incisor teeth are largely developed, it is of considerable size, as in the Rodentia. In the mature human foetus no sign of this bone exists, but in examining the skulls of foetuses about the third or fourth month of pregnancy, we observe it perfectly distinct from the maxillary bone. It sometimes happens that at more advanced periods, whether of in- tra or extra-uterine life, evidence of the separa- tion of the intermaxillary bone exists, and as Meckel says, we often find a transverse narrow " lacuna" on the vault of the palate, extending from the external incisor tooth to the anterior palatine foramen. According to Weber, how- ever, who examined the extensive collection of foetal skeletons belonging to Professor Ilg in Prague, the intermaxillary bone was distinct only in those that had a double hare-lip. He considers, however, that the intermaxillary bone readily separates when the skull of a child of one or two years old is placed for some time in dilute muriatic acid.* The palate bones, (ossa palatinu ; Germ. * See Weber in Kroriep's Notizen, 1820, quoted in Hildebrandt's Anatomie, B. ii. S. 95. die Saumenbeine,) situated at the back part of the nose and roof of the mouth, locked be- tween the maxillary bones and pterygoid pro- cesses of the sphenoid, consist of two thin plates, one short and horizontal, the palatine ; the other long and vertical, the nasal. The palatine process, or plate, has two surfaces and four borders. The upper surface, or the nasal, is smooth and concave, and forms the posterior fourth of the floor of the nose. The lower sur- face, the palatine, rough, and slightly concave anteriorly, has on its posterior and outer part a transverse crest with a depression behind it for theattachmentof thecircumflexus palati muscle. In front and to the outer side of this is the inferior orifice of the posterior palatine canal, behind which are two or three small openings called accessoi'y palatine holes, and in front of it is the commencement of the groove which lodges the posterior palatine vessels and nerves. The anterior border is cut obliquely from below upwards and forwards, and rests on the posterior border of the palatine plate of the upper maxillary bone, forming with it the transverse palato-maxillary suture. The pos- terior border, thin and concave, gives attach- ment to the soft palate. The internal border, rough and thick, is united to its fellow of the opposite side; above, it forms a grooved crest, which receives a part of the vomer, and is continuous with a similar crest formed on the internal border of the palatine plate of the upper maxillary bone. Behind, this border terminates in a sharp point, which, in conjunction with the corres- ponding projection of the opposite bone, forms the postei-ior nasal spine, to which the levator uvulae muscle is attached. The external border is continuous with the vertical plate. The nasal process, or plate, has two surfaces and four borders. The internal or nasal pre- sents, tracing it from below upwards, 1. a smooth concave surface, which forms part of the inferior meatus: 2. a horizontal crest, the inferior turbinated crest, for the attach- ment of the inferior turbinated bone : 3. ano- ther concave surface forming part of the mid- dle meatus: 4. another horizontal crest (the superior turbinated crest), shorter than the former, for the attachment of the middle tur- binated bone of the ethmoid. This surface is covered with the pituitary membrane. The external or zygomato-maxillury surface is rough in front, where it rests against the upper maxillary bone; behind this the lower two-thirds are marked by a groove, which, in conjunction with one on the upper maxillary bone, forms the posterior palatine canal. Above this, the bone is smooth, and forms the inner and deep part of the pterygo-maxillary fissure. The anterior border, thin and projecting, forms a process (the maxillary) which is re- ceived into the fissure in the lower edge of the orifice of the maxillary sinus. The posterior or pterygoid border is united to the anterior border of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid : below, it becomes broad and is continued along a process which stands