ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 94 of common and voltaic electricity are pro- duced by animal electricity; which appears to be sufficient to prove that the latter is as much a peculiar power distinct from these as are the agents called magneto-electricity and thermo-electricity. Perhaps, however, what we at present regard as so many powers dif- fering from one another in their natures, may be merely modifications of the same power, varied in its sensible properties by changes in the circumstances under which they are mani- fested. This latter view is that taken by D.r. Wilson Philip, who holds that Animal Elec- tricity is just common electricity modified in its properties by those of life, under the in- fluence of which it operates in the living animal. Sir Humphry Davy thought he saw a stronger analogy between common and animal electricity, than between voltaic and animal electricity, but concluded that the latter would be found by more extended researches than he was able to make to be " of a distinctive and peculiar kind."* Cavendish, on the other hand, believed that there is a complete identity between common electricity and that of fishes. And this lie laboured to prove by imitating several of the peculiarities of the discharge of the torpedo by a particular arrangement of small Leyden jars, forming a battery, from which the electricity was discharged in large quantity but of low intensity.f Others, again, have attempted to trace a certain resemblance between the structure of the electrical organs of the torpedo and the formation of the voltaic pile, " inasmuch as they are formed of alter- nate layers of moistened conductors of dif- ferent natures, to wit, of membranous parti- tions, and of gelatinous and albuminous fluid." (Tiedemann.) They suppose that the nerves, being spread over one side of the transverse partitions of the cells, produce opposite states of electrical tension on the two sides of the partition. In the present imperfect state of electrical science, all such hypotheses are un- satisfactory. The only conclusions which, in our opinion, can be legitimately drawn from the accumu- lated facts on the subject are—that the shock given by electrical fishes is caused by an agent closely allied in its nature to common elec- tricity and other like powers ;} and that the developement and discharge of this agent are strictly dependent on the integrity of the ner- vous communication between certain peculiar organs and the great nervous centres. It is evident that the nervous system plays a very important part in the electrical function. But whether its influence merely stimulates the electrical organs to do what their organic * Philos. Trans. 1829. 16. t Philos. Trans. 1776. 196. % The latest experiments on the subject, with which we are acquainted, are those of Messrs. Becquerel and Breschet, reported to the Academy of Sciences in October, 1835, (Ann. des Sciences Nat. n. s. iv. 253,) which seem to have been per- formed with great care. The experimenters com- pletely satisfied themselves that the shock of the torpedo is the result of an electrical discharge. ■ structure renders them capable of doing, or really supplies them with a stream of the im-, ponderable agent which they accumulate, and then, under voluntary impulses, discharge,, is still a point for further investigation. In the structure of the electrical organs, we do not see any arrangement such as researches in elec- tricity artificially developed lead us to believe fitted either to produce or to accumulate elec- tricity. But this is in itself no reason why we should conclude that the organs have not such powers. It seems more in accordance with what we know of the actions of other parts of the animal frame, to believe that they do possess such powers. But—if the elec- trical organs, by their organic structure, be fitted to develope and to discharge electricity under the nervous influence, just as a gland secretes its peculiar fluid and its ducts eject it, why (it may be asked) are the nerves going to these organs of so very great a size compared with the same parts in other organs of similar bulk and very energetic action ? Is their sub- jection to the will of the animal sufficient to account for the difference ? or does it indicate, as some physiologists maintain, that the ner- vous influence does more in this case than merely supply the vital stimulus such as is received by all other organs in common ? In other words—is the agent discharged by the fish as electricity first developed in the ner- vous centres, and only accumulated in the electrical organs; and is this agent identical with common nervism ? To these questions we cannot yet give a satisfactory reply. They point the way to some very interesting and im- portant fields of investigation, and cheer us with the hope of considerably extending our acquaintance with the physiology of the nerves, on the supposition that the phenomena of ani- mal electricity shall one day be proved to be owing to an accumulation and discharge of the very same agent that causes contraction of muscles, &c. Such a view appears to have been taken of this subject by Sir II. Davy when he remarked,* " there seems a gleam of light worth pursuing in the peculiarities of animal electricity,—its connexion with so large a nervous system,—its dependence on the will of the animal,—and the instantaneous nature of its transfer, which may lead, when pursued by adequate inquirers, to results very important for physiology." Treviranus, in 1818, suggested the likelihood of the power concerned m the ma- nifestation of electrical phenomena by animals, being one of those on which continuance of life in general depends. " Perhaps," said he,f " it is the same power which enables the tor- pedo to give electric shocks that is the imme- diate cause of the contraction of muscular fibres." The same hypothesis is thus ex- pressed by Carus4 " Numerous nerves are distributed upon the cells of the electrical organs, and as it is through the agency of * Philos. Trans. 1828. t Biologie. v. 141. \ Traite element, d'anat. comp. 2d edit. i. 392. (French translation by Jourdan.)