EXCRETION. 148 even fatal. The term used by the older phy- siologists was excrementitious secretions. Some general observations may be made on these ex- cretions, with the view both of stating the pre- sent extent of our knowledge on this mysterious subject, and of pointing out the importance of an arrangement and combination of facts re- lating to it, which are usually treated, perhaps, in too unconnected a manner, but the con- nexion of which is already perceptible, and can hardly fail to be satisfactorily elucidated in the progress of physiology. When we shall have more precise informa- tion as to the peculiar, and hitherto obscure principles, which regulate the chemical changes continually taking place in living bodies, it does not seem unreasonable to anticipate, that a dis- covery will be made, connecting the excretions of the body with the assimilation of the food, and with the nourishment of the different tex- tures, a discovery which may be equally as important in illustrating the chemical phenome- na of the living body, as that of the circulation was in explaining those changes which come more immediately under our observation. In the mean time, we can point out a great deal of contrivance, connected with the general function of excretion, and can state what are the general injurious results, when this contrivance fails of its intended effect; but we are unable to explain how the contrivance effects its purpose, or to point out any general law, by which these in- jurious results are determined. I. We may state, in the first place, that the necessity for some kind of excretion, or dis- charge of certain matter from the organized frame, corresponding to the acts of nutrition, or of reception and assimilation of external matter, is a law of vital action, applicable to all organized beings without exception. The uni- versality of the excretion of carbon, (whether pure, or in the form of carbonic acid, we need not now inquire,) has been established by the inquiries of Mr. Ellis and others, and the poi- sonous influence of the carbonic acid, in an un- diluted state, to all living beings, is an equally general fact. In all animals, which possess organs of such size and distinctness as to make their economy matter of observation, other excre- tions are likewise observed; and in vegetables, it is not only certain that various excretions, besides the exhalation of water and of carbonic acid, take place, but it is even believed by De Candolle, that all the peculiar products of vital action, excepting only gum, sugar, starch, and lignine, (which have nearly the same elementary composition, and are convertible into one another,) and, perhaps, fixed oils, are applied to no useful purpose in the economy, and are poisonous to the plants in which they are formed, if taken in by their roots and com- bined with their sap; so that, although often long retained in individual portions of the plants, they all possess the essential characters of excretions* And it appears to be well ascer- tained by the observations of De Candolle and of Macaire, that at least great part of the proper * Physiol. Veget. p. 217. juices of vegetables, which descend chiefly by their bark, and are expelled into the soil, are destined to excretion only, and are noxious to plants of the same species, or even of the same families, if growing in that soil (although often useful to the growth of plants of different fami- lies) ; and this principle has been happily ap- plied by the former author to explain the neces- sity of rotation of crops of different natural families, to prevent deterioration of the produce.* As this necessity of excretion appears to be so general an accompaniment of the vital action of all organized beings, it seems obvious that there must be some general law, which deter- mines the noxious quality of these products of that action, and imposes the necessity of their expulsion. Yet it is certain that the chemi- cal elements which pass off in the excretions, are the same which are found in the textures of the animal body, and in the nourishment, which is essential to animal life. It would appear, therefore, that the noxious property belongs to certain combinations only of these elements, which are formed in the course of the chemical changes in living beings, and which, when once formed, must either be ex- pelled from the body, or else laid up in cells appropriated for the purpose, (as in the case of the resins and volatile oils in vegetables, and of the bile in the gall-bladder in animals,) and kept out of the mass of the nourishing fluid. There is one general fact, on which much stress has been justly laid by Dr. Prout, which is confirmed by M. Raspail, and which may, perhaps, be concerned in determining the noxious qualities of certain compounds, in liv- ing beings, viz. that although the elements which enter into the composition of organized bodies, readily combine, in other circumstances, so as to form crystals, yet the peculiar combi- nations which they form in all the textures which are essential constituents of those organic structures are never crystalline. When a crystal occurs in an organized body, according to Dr. Prout,f it is always either the result of disease, or of some artificial process, or it is part of an excretion, separated from the nourishing fluid and from the useful textures.! Every one of these textures contains, even in its minutest particles, saline and earthy, as well as animal or vegetable matter; ยง but the combinations are always so arranged, by the powers of life, that these saline and earthy particles are always dif- fused through membranes, fibres, or cells, never concentrated in crystals. On the other hand, the elements constituting the peculiar matters of the excretions are generally in such a state of combination as readily to assume the crystalline form, either alone, or in the simplest farther combinations of which they are susceptible ; and it seems possible, that this circumstance may be part at least of the cause which necessi- tates their expulsion. This is only matter of * Ibid. p. 249, and p. 1496. t Lectures in Medical Gazette, vol. viii. | " Jamais je n'ai apercu," says Raspail, " de cristaux dans le sein d'une cellule vivante et d'ac- croisemtnt," Raspail, Chimie Organique, ยง 1378. ยง Ibid. $1390.