344 BONES OF THE FOOT. over the superior aspect of the joint; the fibres pass with a slight obliquity inwards from the os calcis to the cuboid. 3. The plantar or inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament, the strongest and largest of the foot ligaments, seems destined not alone for the articulation under considera- tion, but also to strengthen the arch of the tarsus generally on its plantar surface. It is attached behind to the inferior surface of the os calcis, commencing from the angular depres- sion between the two tubercles. After leaving the os calcis a distinction between its superficial and deep fibres becomes very manifest; the former proceed forwards and inwards, pass under the cuboid bone, forming an adhesion to the posterior lip of its groove, then pass under that groove and its contained tendon, and are ultimately inserted into the posterior extremities of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. The deep fibres diverge immediately after they have left the os calcis, and are inserted into the whole inferior surface of the cuboid posterior to the groove. It will be observed that the two joints last described lie beside each other in the same line, a circumstance which favours the surgical operation of partial amputation of the foot in that line. Each joint, however, has its proper synovial membrane lining the cartilaginous incrustations of the bones and the articular surfaces of the ligaments; that of the astragalo- scaphoid is the more lax, and indicates the existence of a considerable range of mot'on in that joint. Motions of the tarsal joints. — All these joints belong to the class Arthrodia, some of them being planiform. The motion in all is that of simple gliding, limited by the strength, number, and position of the ligaments. The close inspection of the bones of the meta- tarsal row, and the firm ligamentous bands which pass between them, occasion a very limited mobility of the bones of that row. Between the astragalus and os calcis, on the other hand, the motions are much more mani- fest ; these are gliding motions in the direction from before backwards and vice versa, or from side to side. When the foot is turned inwards or outwards the latter motion is called into play, and the gliding in the antero-posterior direction takes place when the weight of the body presses on the foot, causing its elongation and the diminution of the curvature of its antero-posterior arch. When the weight presses, the astragalus glides forward upon the os calcis; when the weight is removed, the bone returns to its former condition by gliding backwards. But the greatest mobility exists in the articu- lation between the two rows of tarsal bones. There, indeed, the principal motions of the tarsus take place. The motions of the foot, which many have erroneously attributed to a supposed power of lateral motion in the ankle- joint, really take place in this line of articula- tion. When the foot is turned so that its sole is directed outwards, the scaphoid glides from above downwards on the head of the astragalus, the astragalus glides from within outwards on the os calcis, in consequence of which the hollow space between the last-named bone and the neck of the astragalus is diminished, the interosseous ligament relaxed, the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint likewise relaxed, and the internal lateral ligament ren- dered tense. On the other hand, when the sole of the foot is turned inwards, which may be done much more completely than in the opposite direction, the scaphoid glides from below upwards upon the head of the astragalus, the inferior surface of the os calcis is turned inwards, the astragalus glides upon the last- named bone from without inwards, enlarging the interosseous space, stretching the ligament which occupies that space, and also rendering tense the external lateral ligaments of the ankle- joint. It is therefore natural to expect, as Bichat has remarked, that in those sprains which result from too great inversion or eversion of the foot, the ligaments of the articulations between the tarsal rows should suffer most. Tarso-metatarsal articulations.—The plane surface on the wedge-shaped tarsal extremity of each metatarsal bone is applied to correspond- ing plane surfaces on the cuneiform bones and the cuboid. The first, second, and third meta- tarsal bones, counting from within outwards, are articulated with the first, second, and third cuneiforms, and the fourth and fifth with the cuboid; the second metatarsal, however, is additionally articulated with the first and third cuneiforms, by its lateral surfaces being, as it were, mortised into a cavity formed by these three bones, and each of the other metatarsal bones is articulated with its fellow on each side of it. These articulations have the following common characters: they are planiform arthro- dia?, each articular surface is covered by a thin layer of cartilage, and they all have ligaments similarly arranged in two sets, dorsal and plantar. The first tarso-metatarsal articulation has a greaterextent of its articular surfaces than those of the others. Its plantar ligament is of great strength and extends from the great cuneiform, directed obliquely forwards and outwards to the first metatarsal bone, continuous posteriorly with the cuneo-scaphoid ligament, and strength- ened by fibres from the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and on the outside by fibres from the tendon of the peroneus longus. The dorsal ligament consists of short and parallel fibres ; its breadth is equal to that of the cuneiform bone; it is a weak and membranous ligament. This articulation has a synovial membrane distinct from that of the other tarso-metatarsal joints. The second tarso-metatarsal articulation is the most solid of all, from the fact of the pos- terior extremity of the metatarsal bone being fitted into the mortise-shaped cavity formed by the cuneiform bones. Its ligaments, it may naturally be expected, are more complicated than those of the other joints of this row ; thus it has three dorsal ligaments, a middle one, possessing common characters with those of the other joints, proceeding directly from behind forwards from the second cuneiform to the second metatarsal bone; the others are ex- tended, one from the internal cuneiform