144 ERECTILE' TISSUE. M. Jacobson," who has recently published a description and figures of the young Filaria Medinensis, compares the body of the mother to a tube or sheath inhabited by the young ones; and, after a careful examination of three individuals, we have equally failed in detecting either generative or digestive tubes within the muscular sac of the body. The external tunic of the body is a firm subtransparent elastic integument, which, examined under a high magnifying power, presents fine trans- verse striae, occasioned most probably by ad- herent muscular fibres. Within this tunic and readily separable from it are the longitu- dinal muscular fibres, which are arranged in two fasciculi, separated from each other by two well-marked intervals on opposite sides of the body, which are indicated by an impression (or furrow, as the worm dries by evaporation) on the exterior surface. When from long maceration the crisp outer integument has become separated from the longitudinal mus- cular bands, these might be mistaken for two tubes contained loosely within the cavity. 1 believe that these muscular bands are the tubes Jibrineuses, described by Dr. Le Blond f as the alimentary canal and intestine in the fragment of Filaria Medinensis, which he dissected. In a small Filaria Medinensis, containing no vermiculi, we have also failed to discover any distinct tubes for digestion or generation. It is interesting to observe that the young of the Filaria Medinensis do not resemble the parent in form; one extremity is obtuse, the body slightly enlarges for about one-fourth of its length, then gradually diminishes to within a third of the opposite extremity, which is capillary and terminates in the finest point. The enlarged part of the worm contains a granular substance, and is coiled upon itself, and presents a distinct but minute annulation of the integument: the capillary extremity is smooth, transparent, and generally straight. The Trichocephalus dispar closely resembles in its external form the foetus, if it be such, of the Filaria Medinensis. BIBLIOGRAPHY. —■ Redi, Osservazioni intorno agli animali viventi che si trovano negli animali viventi, Firenze, 1684. Block, Abhand. von d. Erzeugung Eingewerdwiirmer. Berl. 1782. Goeze, Versuch einer Naturgeschichte der Eingewerdwiir- mer, und Naehtrag dazn. Leipz. 1782-1800. Vol- lisneri, Considerazioni ed esperienze intorno alia generazione de vermi ordinarj del corpo umano. Padova, 1782. Werner, Vermium intestinalium, &c. brevis expositio. Leipz. 1782. Retzius, Lec- tiones publicae de Vermibus intestinalibus, Holm. 1786. Schrauh, Verzeuhniss der bisherigen hin- langlich. bekannten Eingeweidwiirmer, Munch, 1788. Rudolphi, Observ. circa vermes intestinales, 2 fasc. Greifsw. 1793-95. Rudolphi, Entozoorum s. vermium intestinalium historia naturalis, 2 in 3 vol. Amst. 1808-9. Rudolphi, Entozoorum Synop- sis, Berl. 1819. Treutler, Obs. pathol. anat. ad helminthologiamcorp. humani. Leipz. 1793. Zeder, Anleitung zur Naturgeschichte des Eingeweidwiir- * Nouvelles Annales du Museum d'Histoire Na- turelle, torn. iii. p. 80, pi. v. f Quelques Mateiiaux pour servir a. l'Histoire des Filaires et des Strongles, 8vo. 1836. mer. Bamb. 1803. Olfers, De vegetativis et ani- matis corporibus in corporibus viventibus reperiun- dis comment. Berl. 1816. Fucker, Brevis Entozo- orum s. verm, intest. expositio. Vienna?, 1822. Bremser, Ueber lebende Wiirmer in lebenden Mens- chen. Wien, 1819; trad, en francais, par MM. Grundler et de Blainville, Paris, 1825. Bremser, Icones Helminthorum Systema Rudolphii illus- trantes, Wien. 1823. Joerdens, Entomologie und Helminthologie des Mensch. Koerpers. 2Bde. Hof. 1801-02. Lidth de Jeude, Recueil des figures des Vers intestinaux, Leid. 1829. Cloquet, Anatomie des Vers intestinaux, Paris, 1824. Creplin, Observ. de Entozois, Greifesw. 1825-29. Schmalx, De En- tozoorum systemati nervoso, Leipz. 1827. Ejus, Tabulae anatomicae Entozoorum, Dresd. 1831. Le Blond, Quelques materiaux pour servir a l'histoire des filaires et des strongles, Paris, 1836. Mehlis, Obs. Anat. d,e distomate hepatico et lanceolate, Gotting. 1825. Nordinann, Mikrographische Bei- tr'age, 2 Bde. Berlin, 1832. Jacobson, in Nouv. Annales du Museum d'Hist. Nat. torn. iii. Klein, in Philos. Trans, for 1730. Carlisle, in Trans, of the Linnean Society, vol. ii. Laennec, in Bulletin des Sciences de l'Ecole de Medecine, An xiii. Home, in Philos. Trans, for 1793; Frisch, in Miscell. Berolinensia, torn. iii.; and for further re- ferences to numerous papers on the natural history of particular families and species, vide Reuss s Repertorium, &c. Scientiae Naturalis, torn. i. Zoo- logia, &c. Gotting.; the first vol. of Rudolphi's Entozoorum historia naturalis, and Wieyemann's Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte und Vergleichende Anatomie. (R. Owen.) ERECTILE TISSUE, (tela erectilis; Fr. tissu erectile; Germ, das erectile, oder schwell- bare Gewebe,) a structure composed prin- cipally of bloodvessels, intimately interwoven with nervous filaments. This tissue in its ordi- nary state is soft, flaccid, and spongy; but when influenced by various causes of excite- ment, whether these consist of stimuli directly applied, or operating through the medium of the sensorium, it exhibits the faculty of admit- ting an influx of blood much greater in quantity than what is sufficient for its nutrition, and in virtue of which it suffers a state of turgescence giving rise to a swollen condition, with more or less of rigidity and increased sensibility of the organs into the structure of which it enters, and which state has been long known by the name of erection. From the property of under- going erection peculiar to this tissue, Dupuytren and Rullier first applied to it the term erectile, and the propriety of this distinguishing appel- lation is now very generally admitted by anato- mical authors. The erectile tissue is developed in various degrees in the several parts of the animal economy in which it occurs; it is abundant and particularly evident in the corpora caver- nosa penis, corpus spongiosum urethras, clitoris, nymphae, plexus retifbrmis, the nipples of the mammary glands, less marked in the red borders of the lips, &c; it also enters into the structure of the papillae of the skin and the villi of the mucous membranes which possess the property of becoming erected in the per- formance of their functions, as is exemplified in the papillae of the tongue. These consist of the pulpy terminations of nerves enveloped by this tissue; in their unexcited state they appear