685 HERMAPHRODITISM. bases on which we shall found some further subdivisions of this order. True hermaphroditism, as above defined, comprehends also, as shall be afterwards more particularly shewn, several very distinct varieties of malformation. If we conceive for a mo- ment all the reproductive organs to be placed on a vertical plane, (as we may suppose them to be, though not with strict correctness, in the human body when in the erect posture,) we shall find that the principal of these varieties may be all referred to three sets of cases :—■ 1st, those in which, if we drew a vertical median line through this supposed plane, the two lateral halves will be seen to present organs differing in this respect, that they belong to opposite sexual types ; -2d, others in which, if we bisect the same plane by a transverse horizontal line, there exist organs of a different sex in the upper from what are present in the lower segment; or, in other words, the internal genital organs belong to one sex, and the ex- ternal to another. In the two preceding classes of cases there is not necessarily, as we shall afterwards more fully point out, any malforma- tion by duplicity in the sexual apparatus of the malformed individual; there is only one set of sexual organs present, but in some parts these organs are formed upon the male, and in others upon the female type. In the 3d and re- maining set of cases, however, there is really present to a greater or less, though most gene- rally only to a very partial extent, a double set of sexual organs, having opposite sexual cha- racters, so that upon the same body, and usu- ally upon the same side, or upon the same vertical line in our supposed plane, we find coexisting two or more of the analogous organs of the two sexes. In accordance with this view, we shall consider the cases of true her- maphroditic malformation under the three corresponding divisions of, 1st, lateral; 2d, transverse ; and 3d, vertical, or, more properly, double or complex hermaphroditism ; and each of these genera will admit of some further convenient subdivisions. But the mode in which we propose to classify and consider the subject will probably be at once more accurately gathered from the following table, than from any more lengthened remarks upon it in the present place. Classification of hermaphroditic malformations. r From excessive development of the clitoris, fin the Female < &c. C From prolapsus of the uterus. 'Spurious \_\n the Male. Hermaphroditism "Latei True al. S From extroversion of the urinary bladder. From adhesion of the penis to the scrotum. . From hypospadic fissure of the urethra, &c. Testis on the right, and ovary on the left side. Testis on the left, and ovary on the right side. Transverse Vertical or Double ., In commenting upon and illustrating the different varieties of hermaphroditism in the particular order in which they are placed in the above table, we shall, we believe, by following that order, be able to take a graduated, and, at the same time, a correct and comprehensive view of the subject, beginning with the more simple, and ending with the more complex and complete species of hermaphroditic malforma- tion, as seen in the primary sexual characters, or the structure of the genital parts themselves. We shall then consider at some length the curious and important physiological subject of hermaphroditism as manifested in the secondary sexual characters of the system. After having done so, we shall endeavour to show how far $ External sexual organs female, internal male. \ External sexual organs male, internal female. -Ovaries and an imperfect uterus with male vesicula; seminales, and rudiments of vasa deferentia. j Testicles, vasa deferentia, and vesicula} se- minales, with an imperfect female uterus and its appendages. Ovaries and testicles coexisting on one or botli sides, &c. the diversified forms of hermaphroditic malfor- mation can be explained upon our present knowledge of the laws of developement; point out the actual anatomical and physiological degree of sexual duplicity which is liable to occur, and the numerous fallacies with which the determination of this question in individual cases is surrounded; and lastly, in conclu- sion, we shall offer some general observations upon the causes, &c, of this class of abnor- mal formations. I. SPURIOUS HERMAPHRODITISM. A. In the female.—There aretwo circumstances in the conformation of the genital organs of the female, the existence of each of which has oc-