GENERATION. 435 ences in the structure of the other parts of the body. In Hermaphrodite animals there are two modes in which fecundation takes place. In some of the Acephala, and in the Holothuriae, the union of the sexual organs necessary for fecundation takes place in a single individual; while in others, as Helix and Lymneus among the Gasteropoda, copulation, or the union of two individuals, is required, and there is mutual impregnation, the female organ of each animal being fecundated by the male of the other,— a mode of impregnation which also exists in the common Earth-worm, Leech, and some other animals. Occasionally we find that three or more individuals engage in this sort of mu- tual fecundation, being arranged in a chain or circle.* (See Hermaphrodite.) Dioecious reproduction, or with distinct in- dividuals of different sexes. Oviparous and viviparous generation.—In those animals again in which the position of the sexual organs on separate individuals renders copulation neces- sary, the mode of production of the new animal from the egg seems to be the most prominent circumstance according to which the reproduc- tive process is modified. Thus, while in a certain number of them the young are born alive, in others they are hatched from eggs laid by the female parent. This constitutes the difference between Viviparous and Oviparous animals; to the first of which classes Mam- malia belong, to the second Birds, and most Reptiles and Fishes. A short comparison of the more important steps of the generative process in the Mammiferous animal and the Bird will most readily explain the difference between viviparous and oviparous generation.-f * In the Cyclostoma viviparum the sexes are distinct. f Harvey in the Sixty-third Exercitation thus enforces the analogy between the oviparous and viviparous modes of reproduction. " I have already given you the reason why I have drawn out documents concerning all other egges from the egges of Hens ; namely, because they are cheap and every man's purchase."—" But there is more difficulty in the search into the gene- ration of viviparous animals ; for we are almost quite debarred of dissecting the humane uterus : and to make any inquiry concerning this matter in Horses, Oxen, Goats, and other Cattel, cannot be without a great deal of pains and expense Hut those who are desirous to make tryal whether we deliver the truth or not, may essay the business in Doggs, Conies, Cats, and the like."—" Hut we in the entrance of these our observations have con- cluded that all animals are in some sort produced out of an egg : For the foetus of viviparous creatures is produced after the same manner and order out of a pre-existent conception, as the chicken is formed and constituted out of an egge. There being one and the same species of generation in them all, and the exordium or first principle of them all is either called an egge, or at lest something answer- able and proportionable to it. For an Egge is an exposed conception from which a Chicken is pro- duced ; but a conception is an egge retained within, untill the foetus have attained its just bulk and magnitude : in other matters it squares with an egge," &c. *' Besides, as a Chicken is hatched out of an Egg, by the fostering heat of the sitting Hen, or some other ascititious hospitable patronage, so also the foetus is produced out of the conception in In both these classes of animals ova are formed from the ovary, and in both the ova are fecundated within the body of the female parent. The process by which the egg is sepa- rated from the place of its formation, and the changes it undergoes in being perfected after this separation, are the same in both : but after the fecundation and completion of the egg, it is differently placed in the two classes of animals; for in birds the egg passes through the oviduct and leaves the body of the female parent, to be hatched into life under the influence of favour- able external agents; while in the mammiferous quadruped, the egg remains within the uterus of the female generative organs, becomes at- tached to it, and has there formed from it the young animal, which does not quit the body of the parent until it is capable of independent life. The egg of the bird leaves the body of the mother provided with a considerable quan- tity of organic matter, by which alone, under the influence of heat and air, the embryo is nourished during incubation. The egg of the mammiferous animal is extremely small com- pared to the size of the young animal at birth, and the foetus consequently draws a continual supply of the materials of its nourishment from the uterus of the mother, with which it is more or less intimately connected. The residence of the child or young animal in the body of the mother during its formation and growth is termed pregnancy, or utero-gestation.* Ovo-vtviparous generation.—There are other animals, however, besides Mammalia, which bear their young alive, as is the case in many cartilaginous and a few osseous fishes, in several Batrachia, Sauria, and Ophidia, and also in some Gasteropodous Mollusca, Insects, Annelida, and Entozoa. But there is an im- portant difference to be pointed out between the viviparous form of generation occurring in these animals and that which belongs to the Mammalia. For the female generative organs of the above-mentioned animals, as well as the eggs they produce, resemble much more closely in their structure those of oviparous than those of strictly viviparous animals. As, in the animals now under consideration, the the egge, by the soft and most natural warmth of the parent.—" And then, concerning that which relates to procreation, the fcetus is produced out of the conception in the selfe same mariner and order as the chicken out of the Egg ; with this only dif- ference, that in an egge, whatever relates to the constitution and nutrition of the Chicken, is at once contained in it; but the conception ( after the fcetus is now formed out of it)doth attract more nourishment out of his parent's womb ; whereupon the nourish- ment increases with the foetus."—" The first Con- ception, or Rudiment, therefore, of all Animals is in the uterus," (this applies to Quadrupeds,) " which, according to Aristotle, is like an egg co- vered over with a membrane when the shell is pilled off." And Harvey finally concludes wiih Aristotle : "All animals, whether they be swimming, walking, or flying animals ; and whether they be born in the form of an Animal or of an Egg j ; are all generated after the same manner." * The nature of the egg of viviparous animals, which has only recently been fully understood, will be described in a subsequent part of this paper, and more in detail in the article UVUM.