ORGANS OF GENERATION. 416 the eggs escaping by the anal passage; but in other cases, having joined that of the opposite side, it terminates externally by a distinct aperture ; near its extremity, however, it re- ceives the auxiliary tubes or ccoca, namely, the spermotlieca and the accessory glands. The spei motheca is a membranous saecu- lus of varying size and shape, regarded by Herold and Malpighi as a receptacle in which the seminal fluid of the male is de- posited and retained,—an opinion which has been sanctioned by subsequent anatomists; it is found only in such insects as deposit their eggs in slow succession, and is presumed to be a provision for the gradual fertilization of the ova during their transit through the ovi- duct. It is only upon this supposition that it is possible to account for the impregnation of some insects which are employed for a long period in the business of oviposition, as is the case, for instance, with the hive-bee, in which a single coitus fertilizes all the eggs that are laid for a space of two years, amounting some- times to twenty or thirty thousand in number; and yet, in this case, it is difficult to conceive how so small a reservoir, scarcely larger in- deed than the head of a pin, can retain a sufficiency of this fluid for such a purpose, a difficulty which is scarcely lessened by admit- ting the hypothesis of Dr. Iiaighton, who refers the act of impregnation rather to some pene- trating effluvium or uuru sem'maiis, which the seminal liquor may emit during a long period, than to actual contact between the semen and the ova. The auxiliary glands (glandule succenlu- riata), which are appended to the oviduct of insects, perform an office which is by no means satisfactorily determined; the most usual sup- position is that they furnish some secretion connected with the investment of the ova, either for the completion of the shell, or, as is more probably the case, for the purpose of uniting them together by a tenacious mucus into the long strings or masses in which they are not unfrequently extruded. The structure of these secerning caeca differs in different insects, but will be found to conform in most cases to one or other of the following types:—■ 1. Most frequently they are merely elon- gated tubes closed at one extremity while the other opens into the oviduct. 2. In some cases the primary ccaca give off secondary branches. 3. In others, as in Hippobosca, they are ramified tubes terminated by blind canals. 4. In Etater Murium they present a very remarkable structure, being composed of a number of triangular capsules united by canals arising from each angle until the terminal vessels are reduced to simple cosca. The ovipositor is the last part of the female generative apparatus of insects which we have to notice. This singular appendage to the oviduct presents many varieties in its structure, being adapted to the introduction of the ova into certain localities either fitted for their matu- ration, or, as is more frequently the case, suited to the necessities of the larva after its escape from the egg; but a detailed account of the forms which this organ assumes in dif- ferent tribes would necessarily be incompatible with the limits of this article, and the reader is therefore referred for further information to the article Insecta. Some insects are ovo-viviparous in a mo- dified sense, and their offspring are produced in the larva or even in the pupa state, the eggs being hatched in the body of the parent, and the young matured to a certain extent before they are expelled. In such cases the oviducts unite to form a capacious matrix, in which at certain seasons the larvaa are contained either agglomerated in masses, or arranged parallel with each other in flat bands. In this state each larva is invested in a delicate membra- nous bag. It is remarkable that all these larvee are carnivorous, their office being to remove putrifying flesh; hence the necessity of their being produced in such a state as immediately to commence the woik to which they are des- tined. Some Aphides, or plant-lice, are ovo-vivi- parous in the early part of the year, but ovi- parous as winter approaches,—a provision evi- dently intended to secure the preservation of the embryo during the inclement season, the eggs remaining unhatched until the return of spring. The Aphides likewise in their mode of gene- ration furnish the physiologist with one of the most extraordinary anomalies met with in the animal kingdom. From an accurate series of observations, first instituted by Bonnet, and subsequently confirmed by the indefatigable Lyonnet, it is now received as an established fact that the females of these insects have the faculty of giving birth to young ones without having had any intercourse with the other sex. From the experiments of these naturalists it appears to have been incontestably proved that if a female Aphis at the moment of its birth be rigorously kept from communication with others of its species, it will, if supplied with proper food, give birth to a brood of young ones, and not only so, but if one of the off- spring so produced be similarly treated, it like- wise will prove fruitful, and so on to the fifth generation, according to Bonnet, or even still further, as Lyonnet afterwards ascertained. Bonnet supposed, in explanation of this cir- cumstance, that the Aphides are truly andro- gynous, each being possessed both of ovige- rous and impregnating organs ; yet this sup- position is incompatible with the fact, that the male insect is almost as common as the female, and that the sexes copulate in the usual manner during the termination of the summer season. The only solution of this phenomenon appears to be that one intercourse with the male suf- fices for the impregnation of all the females which in one season spring from the same union. But the Aphides are not the only ex- amples of this curious fact, as some of the Branchiopod Crustaceans, as Daphnia pennuta, Mull. (Monoculus pulex, L.) are equally ca- pable of producing fertile females through several successive generations; nevertheless