FCETUS. 332 found in the festal lungs a calcareous concre- tion. Pleuritis.—The effects of inflammation at- tacking the pleura before birth are not unfre- quently seen. Billard relates the case of a child which died on the fourth day after birth, in whom the pleura was found greatly thick- ened, and there were existing between its oppo- site surfaces bands of adhesion as firmly orga- nized as those found in an adult, eight or ten years after a pleurisy.* In a case described by Cruveilhier, the child died thirty-six hours after birth, and there was found double pleurisy with effusion of a sero- lactescent pseudo-membranous fluid; and in another instance described by the same writer, in addition to anasarca, ascites, and purpura, there existed hydrothorax, in a seven months' child, which had lived only twelve hours :f other instances are related by Veron, Orfila, and others. Purulent effusion.—The formation of pus has been frequently observed in the foetus, both in the form of secretion from the lining mem- branes of cavities, and in distinct circumscribed abscesses. In cases of pleuritis and peritonitis, as alrea- dy noticed,]; the abdominal and thoracic cavi- ties have contained sero-purulent fluid. Cru- veilhier found pus between the dura mater and skull in a still-born child.§ Abscesses have been found in the thymus and thyroid glands and in the supra-renal cap- sules, see p. 334; and Andral found several in one lung.|| Ollivier (d'Angers) has given an account of the examination of a foetus of three months and a half, under the skin of whose neck an abscess was found.lf I have very often seen small superficial ab- scesses or pustules existing at birth, especially about the neck, face, and head. Dropsical effusions.—Several forms of serous effusion have been already mentioned as taking place during foetal life, and affecting either the cellular tissue, the great cavities of the abdo- men and thorax, those of the brain, or confined to particular organs and their appendages. Thus notice has been taken of the occurrence of general anasarca, ascites, hydrothorax, hydrops pericardii, serous infiltration of the lung, hydro- cephalus, and hydro-rachitis or spina bifida'. In one instance which I examined some years since there was general anasarca and serous effusion into every one of the cavities; the mo- ther was healthy, but was in the habit of drink- ing enormous quantities of ardent spirits. The degree to which the head sometimes be- comes enlarged in uteroby dropsy is as extraor- dinary as it is well known, and the difficulty of delivery thus produced is equally a matter of frequent observation with practitioners in mid- * Op.jamcit. p. 501. t Anat. Pathol, liv. xv. pi. xi. p. 2, obs. 4. \ See Billard, Malad. des Enfans, p. 445. § Liv. xv. pi. xi. p. 6, obs. 10. || Anat. Pathol, by Townsend and West, vol. ii. p. 703. H" Arch. Gen. de Med. Mai 1834. wifery. In one specimen in my possession, the long diameter of the head is six inches, the trans- versefiveand five-eighths,and the circumference nineteen inches : this case gave rise to the ne- cessity of performing cephalotomy. In another instance of twins I was called in, in conse- quence of delivery of the first child being found impracticable, the head being firmly retained after the expulsion of the rest of the body. I succeeded in extricating it, without perforation or instruments of any kind; it measured eight- een inches and a half in circumference.* In a case related by Perfect,f the head, when extri- cated from the pelvis, measured more than twenty-four inches in circumference. In an instance of an hydrocephalic twin, described by Dr. Patterson,] tne circumference of the head was nearly twenty-one inches. Cases have also occurred in which enlarge- ment of the foetal belly from ascites has been sufficient to impede delivery ; no such case has come under the writer's observation, but others have met with them.§ In another section of this article a case is noticed, in which immense distension of the foetal bladder produced great difficulty in effecting the delivery. See p. 335. In such cases hydrocele has been sometimes observed at birth, and in other instances also.|| Ollivier (d'Angers) has described a case of dropsy confined to the cavity of the great epi- ploon in a well-formed child dead-born at the eighth month : the lamina of the peritoneum were separated by a serous fluid of a yellow colour, and perfectly limpid, in which were floating flakes of albumen : the posterior layer of the epiploon was slightly opaque. The tumour distended the abdomen enormously, and there was fluctuation as in ascites : there were present all the characters of circumscribed inflammation of the epiploon.1T Induration of the cellular tissue.—This pe- culiar affection, in the great majority of instances, does not invade the system for some days after birth, and even then it is of rare occurrence. My experience has not afforded me an opportunity of examining more than two cases, which were not congenital. It has been already described in this work (see Cellular Tissue, p. 516), and it ap- pears only necessary to add here that the affection is sometimes found fully established at birth. " Many children," says Andral,** " come into the world with this affection," and we have the testimony of Billardf f and others to the same effect. Jaundice has been more frequently found than any other affection in * An accurate cast of it is preserved in the wri- ter's museum. t Cases in Midwifery, toI. ii. p. 525. X Lond. Med. and Surg. Joiirn. Sept. 17, 1836, p. 86. § See Gardien, Traite complet d'Accouchemens, torn. iii. p. 106; Duges, Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Pratique, torn. viii. p. 303. || Graetzer, Die Krankheiteu des Foetus, p. 159 ; Billard, Malad. des Enfans, p. 630. % Archives Generates de Med. Mai 1834. ** Anat. Pathol, by Townsend and West, vol. ii. p. 580. ft Malad. des Enfans, p. 178.