GASTEROPODA. 402 a given space, they will give birth in a few weeks to five hundred thousand young slugs, which multiplying in their turn would pro- duce at the second laying two hundred and fifty millions of eggs. This fact is well worth the notice of the farmer, who, instead of dri- ving away with so much assiduity crows and other birds which live upon these destructive, though apparently insignificant, animals, would do well occasionally to cherish them as fellow- labourers in his grounds. The Terrestrial Mol- lusca, helpless and incapable of defence, afford food to numberless indefatigable assail- ants, and their preservation is provided for, not only by the number of their eggs, but by a peculiar tenacity of vitality which these ex- hibit under circumstances which would be thought sufficient to destroy the young before they were hatched. The skin of the eggs of the slug is coriaceous and very elastic, so that when compressed they soon resume their shape : exposure to intense cold does not de- stroy their fertility, and they have been known to resist a temperature of 40° without ap- parent injury. When dried by artificial heat, they shrivel up to minute points only distin- guishable by the microscope, yet in this state, if they be put into water, they readily absorb it and are restored to their former plumpness. The same thing happens to those which are dried by the action of the sun and apparently destroyed; a shower of rain is sufficient to supply them with the fluid which they had lost and to restore their fertility. This drying ap- pears not to injure them. M. Leuchs found that after being eight times treated in this manner, they were hatched on being placed in favourable circumstances, and even eggs in which the embryo was distinctly formed, sur- vived such treatment without damage. Reproduction of' lost parts.—Not less won- derful is the power which snails possess of repro- ducing lost parts, after mutilation by accident or design. The results of the experiments of Spallanzani upon this subject are very curious; he found that if the large tentacle of a snail were amputated, the extremity of the stump heals, forming a small swelling of a lighter colour than the rest of the horn; in this swel- ling a black point soon becomes visible, which is a new eye, and the mutilated member, in- creasing in length, shortly equals its original size, although it is for some time of a lighter colour than its uninjured fellow, which in other respects it perfectly resembles. The process sometimes varies a little; it frequently happens that the end of the stump, instead of becom- ing round, is elongated and tapers to a point, from the apex of which the new eye is seen to " squeeze out;" the end of the tentacle then assumes a globular shape, and the most accu- rate dissection cannot distinguish the newly formed eye from the original. If, instead of the horn, the head is cut quite off, a new one will succeed : the new head, however, does not at first contain all the parts of the old one, but they are gradually developed, piece by piece, at different intervals, until at length a head differing little, if at all, from the original pattern is completed. In some cases the ob- ject is effected by a different proceeding, the new part appearing like a round tubercle, con- taining the rudiments of the lips and of the smaller horns, which is united to the mouth and the new-formed tooth, the other parts, as the larger horns and the anterior part of the foot, being totally deficient. In another snail the larger tentacle on the right side first ap- peared, not more than one-tenth of an inch in length, but already provided with its eye, and at a short distance beneath this the linea- ments of the lips separately developed them- selves. In a third snail a group of three horns is seen, two of which will acquire their full developement, while the third is just above the level of the skin. These and many other varieties have been observed; but in most instances there is no perceptible difference between the new head and the one cut off, the exact line of separation being indicated by an ash-coloured mark distinguishable two years after the experiment. The same effects follow, whether the head be removed above or below the brain, and in the latter case a new brain, with all its nerves, is speedily con- structed. The collar and foot are also per- fectly restored after their removal. Slugs reproduce their horns as well as snails, but their power of manufacturing a new head is much inferior. Muscular integument.—None of the Gaste- ropoda have any thing analogous to an endo- skeleton, a circumstance which sufficiently ac- counts for the varied forms which the same in- dividual assumes under different circumstances, for the body being unsupported by any re- sisting framework, readily yields to the con- tractions of the muscular integument with which it is covered. It is from this circum- stance that the zoologist finds the preservation of the natural forms of the recent animals a task of such extreme difficulty, owing to the corrugation and distortion produced by the or- dinary modes of preservation; it is scarcely possible indeed, in many cases, to recognise with tolerable accuracy the natural appearance of these creatures in the shrunken specimens generally preserved in our cabinets, and the collector of these objects would do well never to omit, when circumstances allow him the op- portunity, to preserve some sketch of the living forms of such exotic species as may come into his possession. Body.—In the naked Gasteropods the whole body is found to be inclosed in a muscular in- tegument, the basis of which is a cellular web of extraordinarily extensible character, in which the muscular fibres may be seen to cross each other in various directions, some passing longi- tudinally from one extremity of the animal to- wards the opposite end, while others, assuming different degrees of obliquity, are interwoven with the rest, so as to occasion the elongation or contraction of the body in every assignable direction. Within this muscular bag the vis- cera are contained, as well as the organs sub-