INSECTA. 988 respirations vary, as in Vertebrata, according to the degree of activity and state of excite- ment of the insect. Thus when an insect has been subject to long-continued exertion, the acts of respiration are quick and laborious, as every one must have observed in the larger Bombi, when alighting after a long-continued flight. The contractions and extensions of the abdominal segments are then short and quick, and sometimes so labored that the whole ab- domen is shortened and extended like the flanks and ribs of the race-horse, after a long and severely contested race. The number of respirations, when the insect is in a state of moderate excitement, varies also in different species as well as in the different states of the same insect, and at different periods. Thus in the green grasshopper we have noticed from thirty to forty regular contractions in a minute, alternating, at irregular periods, with others more long and deep than the rest. When this insect was much excited the intervals between the long inspirations were longer, and the in- spirations when they occurred were more deep and laborious. When an insect is preparing itself for flight the act of respiration resembles that of birds under similar circumstances. At the moment of elevating its elytra and ex- panding its wings, which are, indeed, acts of respiration, the anterior pairs of spiracles are opened, and the air rushing into them is ex- tended over the whole body, which, by the ex- pansion of the air-bags, is enlarged in bulk, and rendered of less specific gravity, so that when the spiracles are closed at the instant the insect endeavours to make the first stroke with and raise itself upon its wings, it is enabled to rise in the air, and sustain a long and power- ful flight with but little muscular exertion. In the pupa and larva state respiration is per- formed more equally by all the spiracles, and less especially by the thoracic ones. The frequency of the acts of respiration seem to bear some relation to the expenditure of muscular energy by the insect in a state of activity. All volant insects respire a greater quantity of air in a given time than terrestrial, and both these in their perfect than in their larva state. Thus in the common hive-bee we have noticed from one hundred and ten to one hundred and sixty contractions of the abdo- minal segments in a minute, while in a less active state, when the insect was entirely un- disturbed, the acts of respiration seldom amounted to one-half that number. In an exceedingly wild and irritable little bee, An- thophora retusa, which dies exhausted from the most violent excitement and exertion, in the course of an hour or two, after being captured and confined during summer, the acts of re- spiration are often performed so rapidly that, on one occasion on which we observed them, they amounted to two hundred and forty in a minute, and of course it was only by the closest atten- tion that their number could be ascertained. Next to the pupa state, a state of common repose is that in which insects respire with the least frequency. When a perfect insect or a pupa has remained for some time undisturbed, its respiration becomes gradually slower and slower, until at last it is scarcely perceptible. Thus, in the midst of winter, at a temperature of the atmosphere a little below freezing, we were unable to detect more than the very slightest trace of respiration during two or three days, and even at the expiration of fourteen days the quantity of carbonic acid gas formed was very small. But when the insect was re- moved into a much warmer atmosphere it began again to respire more freely, and the quantity of carbonic acid produced in a given time was considerably increased. In a speci- men of Botnbus terrestris, which had remained at rest for about half an hour, the respirations had become deep and laboured, and were continued regularly at about fifty-eight per minute. At the expiration of one hundred and forty minutes, during which time the in- sect remained in a state of repose, the respi- rations were only forty-six per minute, and at the expiration of one bundled and eighty mi- nutes they were no longer perceptible. This same insect, when first captured, and in a state of moderate excitement, respired at the rate of one hundred and twenty-five inspirations per mi- nute. We have noticed the like circumstances in a female Sphinx ligustri, which after it had been excited for a short time in flight breathed at the rate of forty-two respirations per minute, while after it had remained at rest about seventy-five minutes respired at the rate of only fifteen per minute. Hence the quantity of air deterio- rated by an insect in a given time depends upon the state of activity and condition of life of the individual. In accordance with the frequency, and consequently the quantity of respiration, such are the results. In accele- rated respiration the circulation of the fluids is increased, and in those conditions, noticed in another part of this paper, in which the cir- culation is accelerated, the acts of respiration are at the same time more frequent. The development of heat, which is now found to take place in all insects as in the air-breath- ing vertebrata, depends mainly upon the quan- tity and activity of respiration, and the volume and velocity of the circulation. In Hymenop- tera, in which, as we have seen, the capacity of the respiratory organs is greater than in other insects, and consequently the quantity of air deteriorated in a given time is also greater, the quantity of heat evolved during the process is proportionate to the quantity of respiration. In the larva, in which, in relation to its size, the quantity and energy of respiration are less than in the perfect insect, the quantity of heat deve- loped is also less, so that in the larva? of Hyme- noptera it does not exceed from two to four degrees that of the medium in which the insect is placed ; while in the perfect insect, in a state of little activity, the quantity of heat developed is apparently at its minimum amount at three or four degrees above the temperature of the surrounding medium. But when the same insect is in a state of moderate activity, and consequently is respiring more frequently, it