ABNORMAL CONDITION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 73 a. Luxation of the radius at the elbow-joint forwards.—The symptoms of this accident are as follows: the fore-arm is slightly bent, but cannot be brought to a right angle with the arm, nor can it be completely extended ; when it is suddenly bent, the head of the radius strikes against the fore part of the humerus, and pro- duces so sudden a stop to its motion as at once to convince the surgeon that one bone strikes against the other. The hand is placed in a prone position; but neither its pronation nor its supination can be completely performed, although its pronation may be nearly complete. The head of the radius may be felt on the front and upper part of the elbow-joint, and if rota- tion of the hand be attempted, the bone will be perceived to roll; this last circumstance and the sudden stop to the bending of the arm are the best diagnostic marks of this injury. In the dissection of this case, the head of the radius is found resting in the hollow above the external condyle of the os humeri. The ulna is in its natural position. The coronary and part of the capsular ligaments as well as the oblique and a portion of the interosseous liga- ments are torn through. The laceration of the latter ligament allows of the separation of the two bones. The biceps muscle is shortened (fig- 43). Fig. 43. Luxation of the radius forwards. We have known an instance in which this accident was produced in the following man- ner : the patient in endeavouring to protect his head from a blow aimed at him by a man who with both hands wielded a spade, received the force and weight of the spade on the edge of the ulna, which, at the same time that it pro- duced a compound fracture of this bone, also dislocated the radius forwards. This latter complication not having been discovered in time, remained ever afterwards unreduced. b. Lateral dislocation of the upper extremity of the radius.—This is an accident we find alluded to for the first time by Sir A. Cooper, in the appendix to the edition of his work on luxations. He does not adduce any recent case of it, but states that Mr. Freeman brought to his house a gentleman, aged twenty-five, whose pony having run away with him when he was twelve years old, he had struck his elbow against a tree, while his arm was bent and advanced before his head, in consequence of which the olecranon was broken, and the radius luxated upwards and outwards above the external condyle. When the arm was bent, the head of the radius passed the os humeri; he had a useful motion of the limb, but neither the flexion nor the extension was complete. As the case here stated is the only one we are acquainted with on record of luxation of the radius upwards and outwards, we may be perhaps excused for exceeding our ordinary limits by relating the following case of this accident; the subject of it was a very intelligent medical student, about twenty-three years old, and we shall give the case nearly in his own words:— He writes as follows : " When I was very- young, a blow was aimed at my head by a person having a heavy boat-pole in his hands. I endeavoured to save my head by parrying the blow with my left arm. I received the pole on the middle and back part of the fore-arm with a force which knocked me down, and caused a wide lacerated wound where the pole came in contact with it. Whether a luxation of the radius occurred at this time or not was not known, but ever since the accident the arm has been weak, and about seven years ago the weakness increased, and it became liable to partial luxations forwards upon the slightest causes, which luxations I reduced myself by making extension with my right arm, until at length I got a severe fall, which dislocated it to such an extent, forwards and outwards, as to defy my attempts to restore it. The arm was locked in the flexed position, and the head of the radius was to be felt high up, and pro- jecting slightly outside the external condyle of the humerus. The biceps muscle was con- tracted, and its tendon was very prominent, hard, and tense, like a bowstring. The hand was supinated. I suffered little pain, except when extension was attempted, when it became intense. Sir A. Cooper remarks, in his cases of luxation of the radius forwards, that the fore-arm is slightly bent, but cannot be bent to a right angle, nor completely extended. My arm was bent to an acute angle, and could not admit of the slightest extension. The luxation was reduced by extension, and in six weeks passive motion was begun; but I found it painful to use it, and the head of the radius would often catch in the ridge above the ex- ternal condyle, but on extending the arm it returned with a noise into its place. A month, however, did not pass before I was one morn- ing awakened in making some awkward move- ment in my bed, and my arm became luxated worse than ever. On this occasion the surgeon who heretofore had easily replaced the bone found it impracticable to effect it, and called in Mr. Colles to his assistance; but although much force was used it was in vain. From this time the head of the radius never was