687 HERMAPHRODITISM. The dimensions which the clitoris occasion- ally presents are such as to render it, in respect of size alone, not unlike the male penis. It is not unfrequently found of two or three inches in length, but sometimes it is seen five and six inches long. Dr. Clark frequently found the organ an inch long, and thick in proportion, among the Ibbo and Mandingo women.* Hallerf and Arnaud I have collected nume- rous instances of preternatural size of the cli- toris. The former author alludes, among others, to two cases in which the organ was stated to have been seven inches in length; and to an- other, mentioned by Chabart, in which it was alleged to have been twelve inches,-—a size which we can only conceive to have been the result of disease. When the female clitoris is increased greatly in size, it is not wonderful that it should be sometimes mistaken for the male penis,—the female organ in the Mammalia naturally differ- ing from the male only in regard to its smaller dimensions, its not being perforated by the urethra, and its wanting the corpus spongio- sum,—a peculiarity or defect of structure that exists as the natural type of formation in the penis of male reptiles. In the human subject the organs are composed internally of the same kind of erectile tissue, and when we descend in the animal scale, and examine their relations in the males and females of the same species, we find some still more striking analogical peculi- arities of structure. Thus, in several of the Carnivora and Rodentia, as in the lioness, cat, racoon, bear, marmot, &c. the clitoris contains a small bone like that belonging to the penis of the males of the same species; and amongst the Monotremata and Marsupiata the clitoris of the female, like the penis of the male, is surmounted by a bifid glans. In a species of lemur (Loi'is gracilis or Slenops tardigra- dus), the clitoris is of a very large size; and the urethra, as first pointed out by Daubenton,§ name,"("v^p°>"'l"'v *ai El^°C Kai wofwt.) Probably from the licentious purposes alluded to by Justin Martyr, or from the weak and imbecile character of her- maphrodite individuals, the word avSpoyno? came in latter times to signify effeminate and luxurious. The ancient lexicographer Hesychius gives it this meaning ; and Theodoret, in his Therap., speaks of Bacchus as being licentious, effeminate, and an- drogynous—(yuvvic tuv, nai flnXuJpittff, xoi avJpojoivo?. ) * Home's Comp. Anat. vol. iii. p. 317. On the peculiarities of the external genital organs in va- rious African tribes, see a learned paper by Prof. Miiller in his Archiv fuer Anatomic for 1834. Ht. iv. s. 319., with ample references to the observa- tions and opinions of Levaillant, liarrow, Peron, Lesner, Lichtenstein, Burchcll, Somerville, &c. See also Otto, in his Neue Seltenc Bcobaehtungcn zur Anatomie, p. 135, shewing the very prominent external female parts of different African tribes to consist differently, 1, of enlarged nymphae, 2, of enlarged labia, and 3, of the enlarged clitoris. t El. Phys. torn. vii. part ii. p. 81, 82. X Dissertation sur les Hermaphrodites, p. 372. See also Homberg, De Excrescentia Clitoridis nimia, Jena, 1671 •, Troncliin, De Clitoridc, JLugd. 1736; and Ploucquet's Literatura Mcdica, art. Clitoris Magna, torn. i. p. 299. § Audibert, Histoire Nat. des Singes, tab. ii. fig. 8. runs forward and opens at its anterior extre- mity between the branches of its glans, imita- ting, in this point of structure, the penis of the male among the Mammalia. In the human subject the mere enlargement of the clitoris alone has seldom of itself given rise to errors with regard to the sex of the indi- vidual, except in young children ; but it has frequently happened that along with it other minor malformations have coexisted, so as to render the sexual distinction much more ambi- guous. In women possessing this peculiarity of structure we sometimes observe, for in- stance, the clitoris not only resembling the penis in size, but it has an indentation at the point of the glans, imitating the orifice of the urethra; and occasionally the glans is actually perforated to a certain extent backwards, or the body of the clitoris is drilled more or less imperfectly with a canal like that of the male urethra. In other instances the canal and orifice of the female vagina are, by an excess of development in the median line of the body, much contracted or nearly shut up, the vulva being closed by a strong membrane or hymen, and the labia cohering so as to give the parts a near resemblance to the united or closed perinffium and scrotum of the male. Further, in one or two very rare cases which have been put upon record, the ovaries and Fallopian tubes seem to have descended through the in- guinal rings into the labia, thus giving an ap- pearance of the presence of testicles; and a fallacy seems to have occurred in some cases from the presence of roundish masses of fat in this situation simulating more or less the same male organs. Besides, it often happens in those women who present more or fewer of these peculiarities of conformation in the external genital parts, that the general or secondary sexual characters of the female are wanting, or developed in a slighter degree than natural, owing probably to the malformations of the external organs being often combined with some coexisting anomalies in those more important internal re- productive organs, the healthy structure and action of which at the time of puberty appear to exercise so great an influence on the deve- lopment of the peculiar general conformation and moral character of the female. Thus the features are sometimes hard, the figure and gait rather masculine, the mamma? slightly developed, the voice is deep-toned, and the chin and upper lip are occasionally covered with a quantity of hair. In fact, in some marked cases the whole external character ap- proaches to that of the male, or, more pro- perly speaking, occupies a kind of neutral ground between that of the two sexes. Some of the more striking examples of this first va- riety of spurious hermaphroditism in the fe- male will sufficiently illustrate the above re- marks. Dr. Ramsbotham* has briefly described the genital parts of an infant, that was christened and looked upon as a boy, until dissection after * Medical Gazette, xiii. p. 184.