450 GENERATION. nut; and in the sow or ewe they are somewhat larger than full-grown peas. The corpus luteum may, by dissection, be easily separated from the surrounding parts and turned out of the ovary; and when this is done, the external membrane of the original vesicle remains lining the cavity left in the ovary. From this it would appear that the corpus luteum is most intimately connected with the inner membrane of the vesicle; and, in fact, Baer* observed that, before the rupture of the vesicle in the dog, the inner membrane had become thickened, rugous, and of a villous structure, as if the corpus luteum grew from that internal membrane itself. This observa- tion also makes it probable that the growth of the corpus luteum may contribute to cause the rupture of the vesicle. The corpus luteum at first increases gradu- ally in size, remains for a time stationary, and then decreases till it either wholly disappears or leaves only a small mark or cicatrix to indi- cate its place. The time at which it attains its full size seems to vary considerably. In the sheep two or three days are sufficient for the formation of the corpus luteum, and its cavity becomes obliterated within a fortnight after copulation. Haller found corpora lutea in the dog on the sixth day; Cruikshank observed the corpora lutea to go on progres- sively increasing till the ninth day in the rabbit; and it is probable that in the human species the corpus luteum is not fully developed till after the second month of pregnancy. After the corpus luteum has attained its full magnitude, its colour becomes paler and of a clearer yellow; its size then gradually dimi- nishes, its tissue becomes more compact, its cavity is obliterated, and it is converted into a body nearly solid. It generally retains, during utero-gestation, a considerable size, and this remark applies especially to the human species, in which it diminishes much more rapidly in size after than before the birth of the child. In some animals it at last wholly disappears; in others, among which is the human species, it always leaves some mark. In what has now been said regarding the corpus luteum, that body has been described as it is formed in the place of a vesicle which has been burst after fruitful sexual union ; but we may remark that the same series of changes always follows the rupture of an ovarian vesicle from whatever cause that may have proceeded. It is now well known that in some animals the rupture of ovarian vesicles and subsequent changes take place without sexual union merely from the state of heat or venereal excitement of any kind, while in others these phenomena are never observed but as accompaniments of conception. The sow and mare belong to the first of these classes of animals. The rabbit, bitch, ewe, and cow may be mentioned as examples of the second, as also is generally the case in the human female; but in woman, as in some other females, various circumstances induce us to believe that the * See Epistola, &c. rupture of ovarian vesicles and the formation of corpora lutea in their place occasionally happen without sexual union from all those causes which excite greatly the sexual organs; and we are not, therefore, inclined to admit the presence of a corpus luteum, taken alone, as a certain sign of sexual union having oc- curred ; though conjoined with other signs, the presence of one or more corpora lutea or the appearance of ruptured vesicles must be re- garded as good presumptive evidence. In some of those animals in which vesicles frequently burst without sexual union, there are occasionally very many corpora lutea in the ovary, so as to alter completely its form, and disguise its natural structure, as may frequently be seen in the sow. In those animals again in which sexual union alone brings about the rupture, we at once distinguish the ovary of the unimpregnated animal from that of the one that has had connexion with the male, and we very generally observe an exact correspondence in the number of corpora lutea and the ova or foetuses contained in the uterus;* and the same correspondence is very frequently found after conception, even in those animals in which corpora lutea are formed without sexual union. While the corpus luteum, then, is always to be found in the ovary of a pregnant quadruped, the formation of this body is to be regarded as the uniform consequence of the rupture of the ovarian vesicles, whether that rupture shall have been occasioned merely by excitement of the organs, or by productive or unproductive sexual union; but it is only when conception and pregnancy occur that the corpus luteum attains its full size, and runs through the whole of that series of changes which we have described as peculiar to that body. We ought not to omit here the mention of a totally different view which has been taken of the corpora lutea, that, viz. of Buffon and Val- lisneri,f supported more recently by Sir E. IIome,J according to which it is held that the corpora lutea exist before the rupture of the vesicles, and are the matrix in which the vesicles and ova are formed. Two circumstances principally have been brought forward in favour of this hypothesis :— 1st, that corpora lutea occur in the virgin state; and 2d, that they frequently contain vesicles. Now the existence of corpora lutea, we have already stated, in the sow (observed by Sir E. Home;, and even, we are inclined to hold, in the human female, is not necessarily a proof of sexual union having previously occurred, since the rupture of the vesicles may have * It may be mentioned that more than one ovum have sometimes been found in the same Graafian vesicle, in which case it will readily be understood there might be only one corpus luteum in the ovary and two ova in the uterus, but this is rare. The author has verified the above correspondence in many hundred pregnant ewes, in a considerable number of cows, rabbits, some cats, and other animals. t Vallisneri, Hist, of the Generation of Man and Animals (Ital.). i Phil. Trans., vol. cviii. p. 256, and vol. cix. p. 59.