999 INSECTIVORA. Fig. 448. The cervical portion of the serratus magnus is simple, excessively thick and swelling, and is attached only to the posterior vertebra?. The trapezius consists only of two bundles of fleshy fibres, which arise from the lumbar ver- tebra, and are inserted into the posterior ex- tremities of the long and narrow scapula; and as these fasciculi are nearly parallel, their action would be rather to separate than to ap- proximate the posterior parts of these bones, were it not for a strong transverse ligament which holds them together. Their application consists in moving the anterior part of the body upwards. The scapular attachments of the rhomboideus are principally to this transverse ligament of the two scapulae, and as it is in- serted into a sort of ossified modification of a cervical ligament, its office consists in raising the head with great force. The levator scapula is wanting; its existence would be obviously useless. The pectorulis minor is very slender ; it is attached to the anterior parts of the first ribs, and to the ligament, already mentioned, which joins the clavicle to the scapula. There are also two muscles arising from the anterior part of the sternum, and inserted into the large head of the clavicles. The most important muscles of the humerus are the pectorulis major, the latissimus dorsi, and the teres major, all of which are of great size; and it is by means of these muscles that the astonishing efforts of the animal are made in excavating his passages, and throwing the earth behind him. The pectorulis major is of extraordinary thickness. It is formed of six portions, which are all of them inserted into the broad quadrate portion of the humerus. Four of these portions arise from the sternum, the fifth from the clavicle; and the sixth passes across transversely from one arm to the other. The latissimus dorsi is also of considerable size, and is inserted into the posterior surface of the quadrate portion of the humerus. The teres major, which is of enormous thickness, is in- serted near the former muscle. The other muscles of the anterior extremity do not require particular description. There is one peculiarity in the muscular sys- tem which deserves special notice; it is the enormous developement of the punniculus cur- nosus in the hedgehog, by which it is enabled to roll itself up in a ball with such astonishing force as to afford with its spiny covering a complete protection against its most powerful antagonists. I proceed to describe this ap- paratus and its uses. As this muscular apparatus has no attach- ment but to the skin, it changes its position with every movement of the integument; and it is therefore necessary to consider it under the various relations which it assumes in the different positions of the animal. Considering it then, in the first place, as rolled up in a ball (fig. 447), either for defence or during repose, Fig. 447. the whole body is enveloped beneath the skin by a strong sac or covering, consisting of a mass of fleshy and concentric muscular fibres, of an oval form. All these fibres are attached intimately to the skin, and even to the base of the spines with which it is every where furnished, so that it is even difficult to detach the fibres in dissection. The thickest part of this fleshy sac is at the lower margin or mouth of the sac, at which part it forms a sort of sphincter, com- posed of orbicular muscular fibres. On the other hand, when the hedge-hog is unrolled, and at its full length (fig. 448), the muscle in question totally changes its figure and relations. The muscle now lies over the back, forming an oval covering, the middle of which is very thin,