26 DIGESTION. by a peculiar state induced on certain of the nerves of the stomach, in the same way that certain nerves of the eye and of the ear receive the impressions of light and of sound. There is, however, this difference between the two cases, that in the instance of the eye and the ear we are able to point out the agent by which the impression is made, whereas we are unable to do this with respect to the stomach.* The perception of thirst, although seated in the tongue and fauces, is so intimately con- nected with the state of the stomach, as to be properly referred to our consideration in this place. It is immediately produced by a defi- ciency of the mucous secretion of the part, and consequently must be regarded as ulti- mately depending on a peculiar condition of the glands which secrete this substance. Al- though the sensation of thirst has a less specific character than that of hunger, yet we conceive that it must be referred to a peculiar action induced upon the nerves of the part, in a way analogous to what we suppose to take place with respect to hunger, and like it depending on a peculiar action, the intimate nature of which we are unable to explain.f There are various circumstances, which differ much in their nature and origin, acting upon different parts of the system, which all concur in producing a peculiar sensation termed nausea, which is referred to the region of the stomach. It is usually attended with a considerable derangement of all the powers of the body, both muscular and nervous, and if continued, produces the effort to vomit. The act of vomit- ing consists in an inversion of the peristaltic motion of the stomach, commencing at the pylorus, which causes the contents to be carried towards the cardia, and to be forcibly ejected from the oesophagus. It has been generally supposed that the impression which produces nausea, and ultimately vomiting, is in the first instance made on the nerves of the stomach, that it is communicated by them to its muscu- lar fibres, that their action is transmitted, probably by the intervention of the nerves, to the muscles of the abdomen and to the dia- phragm, and that their contraction cooperates with the muscular coats of the stomach in the evacuation of its contents. It has long been a subject of controversy among physiologists in what degree the abdominal muscles assist the coats of the stomach, or how far the latter are * See the remarks of Blumenbach, ut supra, § 21; Magendie, Physiol, t. ii. p. 24 et seq. and art. " Digestion," in Diet. Sc. Med. t. ix. p. 370..5. We have some valuable observations by Boerhaave, Praclect. § 88. cum notis; also by Soemmering, Corp. Hum. Fab. t. vi. § 149..56. Haller describes the phenomena of long-continued fasting with his usual minute correctness; El Phys. xix. 2, 3..7; we have some interesting cases of long-protracted abstinence in Dr. Copland's Trans, of Richerand's Physiol, p. 565 et seq. t For an account of the phenomena of thirst, and the explanations that have been offered of them, the reader is referred to Boerhaave, Praelect. §585, 804; Haller, Prim. Lin. $ 639 ; El. Phys. xix. 2, 9; Blumenbach, Physiol. § 330-2, cum nota B; Magendie, Physiol, t. ii. p. 31..3; Elliot- son's Physiol, p. 52. competent to produce the effect without the aid of the former. Haller supposed that the stomach alone is capable of evacuating its contents,* while Chirac, Duverney,f and other French physiologists conceived that this organ is entirely passive in the act of vomiting, and the same opinion has been lately maintained by Magendie, and supported by a series of direct experiments. He not only found that vomiting was entirely suspended, when the abdominal muscles and diaphragm were ren- dered incapable of acting upon the stomach, but he even informs us, that when the stomach was removed, and a bladder substituted in its place, vomiting was still induced.]: But we are still disposed to believe that the commonly received doctrine is the correct one; that the action commences in the muscular fibres of the stomach, and is materially assisted by the diaphragm and abdominal muscles. We rest our opinion on the analogy of the other hollow viscera, the uterus, the bladder, and the intestines, where the contraction commences in the organ itself; on the ante- cedent probability, that as the agent which produces the effect is, in most cases, applied to the stomach, it must be supposed to act immediately upon it, and lastly on the mecha- nical nature of the act of vomiting, which appears to be produced rather by a sudden and forcible contraction of the organ itself, than by any external pressure exercised upon it. We conceive also that this view of the subject is confirmed by the effect that succeeds to the division of the par vagum; it is asserted that when this nerve is divided vomiting can no longer take place, and as it is distributed principally over the stomach, so as to make it appear that this organ is its specific destination, we may presume that the incapacity for vomit- ing depends upon the loss of power in the stomach. § * El Phys. xix. 4. 12, 14; see also Lieutaud, Mem. Acad, pour 1752, p. 223 et seq.; Sauvages, Nosol. Meth. t. ii. p. 337. t Miscel. Curios. Dec. ii. ant. 4, obs. 125, p. 247, 8, and Mem. Acad, pour 1700, hist. p. 27. Nearly the same opinion was maintained by Hun- ter, Anim. CEcon. p. 199, 0. | Mem. sur le vomissctnent, "p. 19, 2, and Physiol, t. ii. p. 138..40. S Bell's Anat. vol. iv. p. 54 et seq. Legallois and Beclard performed a series of experiments on this subject, which consisted in injecting into the veins a solution of emetic tartar. They particularly attended to the effect produced on the oesophagus, the diaphragm, the abdominal muscles, and the stomach itself; the conclusion which may be de- duced from these experiments is, that vomiting cannot take place without the compression of some of the contiguous parts upon the stomach ; CEuvres de Legallois, t. ii. p. 91 et seq. Dr. Hall has lately investigated the nature of the connexion between the act of vomiting and the state of the organs of respiration. He conceives that the diaphragm is passive in the operation and that the larynx is closed, and he hence concludes that the muscles of expiration, by their sudden contraction, press upon the stomach and project its contents through the oesophagus ; Quart. Journ. We must conceive, however, that a slate of nausea must be, in the first instance, induced, and this must take place through the intervention of the nerves of the