820 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. published by Mr. Bransby Cooper* as one of dislocation on the dorsum llii, was ra- ther the dislocation we are now considering, namely, the luxation towards the ischiatic notch. Among some of this patient's symp- toms, it is mentioned that the trochanter major was plainly felt behind and a little above the natural situation with respect to the ilium; the head of the bone could be felt neither in the sitting, standing, nor lying posture. Indeed, Mr. B. Cooper himself remarks that, " upon taking into consideration all these diagnostic marks, I was induced to consider the acci- dent a luxation on the dorsum of the ilium ; although the head of the bone was not drawn up so high as usual, as indicated by the slight shortening of the limb; and the trochanter major was also drawn further backwards than is usual, in the dislocation on the dorsum, so that, perhaps, this might by some surgeons have been described as a dislocation to the ischiatic notch." Mr. Cooper further adds :—" I doubt, however, if this appellation as applied to a cer- tain variety of dislocation of the hip, does not rather mystify than facilitate our diagnosis, for it leads to the supposition that the head of the bone sinks into the osseous hiatus,—a cir- cumstance which could not occur even in the skeleton itself, from the size of the head of the bone, and much less could it happen in the living subject, when this notch is filled up with ligaments, muscles, vessels, and nerves." This respectable surgeon proposes, therefore, to expunge from the classification of dislocations the luxation into the notch, but to consider it only as a variety of the dislocation on the dorsum ilii, distinguishing the one as a luxation upwards, the other backwards, on the dorsum. To this proposition we cannot by any means assent, for we consider that a dislocation back- wards behind the ischium, and to the ischiatic notch which is below the level of the ilium, never can be properly designated a variety of the dislocation on the dorsum ilii, although we might assent to the proposition to consider it a variety of the dislocation backwards. The case as described by Sir A. Cooper, of disloca- tion on the sciatic notch, we are satisfied is to be seen occasionally,though rarely, in the living; and the dissection made by Sir Astley himself, in which he found the head of the bone resting behind the acetabulum on the pyriform muscle, the preparation of which is to be found in the museum of St. Thomas's Hospital, should, we imagine, place the matter beyond dispute. Anatomical characters.—We have, says Sir Astley Cooper, a good specimen in the collec- tion of St. Thomas's Hospital, which I met accidentally in a subject brought for dissection. The original acetabulum is entirely filled with a ligamentous substance, so that the head of the bone could not have been returned into it. The capsular ligament is torn from its connection with the acetabulum at its anterior and posterior junction, but not at its superior and inferior. The ligamentum teres is broken, and an inch of * Guy's Hosp. ReporJ, n. 1836. it still adheres to the head of the bone. The head ot the bone rests behind the acetabulum, on the pyriformis muscle, at the edge of the notch above the sacro-sciatic ligaments. The muscle on which it rests is diminished, but there has been no attempt made to form a new bony socket for the head of the os femoris. Fig. 324. Around the head of the thigh-bone a new capsular ligament is formed ; it does not adhere to the articular cartilage of the ball of the bone which it surrounds, but could, when opened, be turned back to the neck of the thigh-bone, so as to leave its head completely exposed. Fig. 324. Luxation in the sciatic notch. Within the new capsular ligament, which is formed of the surrounding cellular membrane, the broken ligamentum teres is found. The trochanter major is rather behind the acetabu- lum, but inclined towards it relatively to the head of the bone. This dislocation, he adds, must have existed, from the appearances of the parts, many years. The adhesions were too strong to have admitted of any reduction, and if reduced, the bone could not have remained in its original socket. c. Luxation upwards and inwards on the pubcs.—This luxation is more easy of detection than any other of the thigh. It happens from a person while walking putting his foot into some unexpected hollow in the ground, and his body at the moment being bent backwards, the head of the bone is thrown forward upon the os pubis. The limb in this species of dislocation is an inch shorter than the unaffected one; the knee and the foot are turned outward, and * From Sir A. Cooper, pi. iv. on Fractures and Dislocations.