HIBERNATION. 771 " A comparative experiment was made with a puppy, the atmosphere at 50°; the heat in the pelvis, as also at the diaphragm, was 102°. " In summer, the atmosphere at 78°, the heat of the hedgehog, in an active state in the cavity of the abdomen, towards the pelvis, was 95°; at the diaphragm, 97°." * There is an error in the admirable work of M. Edwards, as 1 have already stated, in rela- tion to the present subject, which it is important to point out. M. Edwards first ascertained the interesting fact, that the very young of those species of animals which are born blind, lose their temperature if removed from the contact of their parent; and justly concludes that they have not sufficient power of evolving heat, to maintain their natural temperature when so ex- posed. M. Edwards then subjected hiberna- ting animals to the action of cold, and observ- ing that their temperature also fell, he concludes that they, like the very young animal, have not the faculty of maintaining their temperature under ordinary circumstances.f It is remarkable that this acute physiologist did not perceive the error in this reasoning. In no instance does the young animal maintain its warmth, when exposed alone to the influence of an atmosphere of moderate temperature. Can this be said of the hibernating animal ? Certainly not. In ordinary temperatures, the hibernating animal maintains its activity, and with its activity, its temperature. The loss of temperature in this kind of animal is an in- duced condition, occasioned by sleep. There is a point unnoticed in M. Edwards's experiment. It is the condition of the bat in regard to activity or lethargy under the exposure to cold ; and upon this the whole phenomena depend. The differences between the young animal benumbed, and the hibernating animal lethargic, from cold, are both great and numerous. I purpose to point them out particularly on a future occasion. 4. It is in strict accordance with these facts, that the lethargic animal is enabled to bear the total abstraction of atmospheric air or oxygen gas, for a considerable period of time. Spallanzani placed a marmot in carbonic acid gas, and makes the following report of the ex- periment in a letter to Senebier: " Vous vous ressouviendrez de ma marmotte qui fut si forte- ment lethargique dans l'hiver severe de 1795 ; je la tins alors pendant quatre heures dans le gaz acide carbonique, le thermomitre marquant —12°, elle continua de vivre dans ce gaz qui est le plus mortel de tous, comme je vous le disais: au moins un rat et un oiseau que j'y placai avec elle y perirent a l'instant meme. 11 parait done que sa respiration fut suspendue pendant tout ce terns-la. Je soumis a la meme experience des chauve-souris semblablement lethargiques, et le resultat fut le meme." J * Ibid. p. 112. f Des Agens Physiques, p. 155. t Memoires sur la Respiration, par Lazare Spal- lanzani, traduites en Fran<jais, d'apris son manu- scrit inedit, par Jean Senebier, p. 75. A bat which was lethargic in an atmosphere of 36° was immersed in water of 41°. It moved about a little, and expelled bubbles of air from its lungs. It was kept in the water during six- teen minutes, and then removed. It appeared to be uninjured by the experiment. A hedgehog which had been so lethargic in an atmosphere of 40° as not to awake for food during several days, was immersed in water of 42°. It moved about and expelled air from its lungs. It was retained under the water during 22J minutes. It was then removed. It ap- peared uninjured. It seems probable that the motions observed in these animals were excited through the me- dium of the cutaneous nerves. The power of supporting the abstraction of oxygen gas, or atmospheric air, belongs solely to the hibernating state, and is no property of the hibernating animal in its state of activity. After having found that the dormant bat, in summer, supported immersion in water during eleven minutes, uninjured, I was anxious to know whether the active hedgehog possessed the same power. I immersed one of these ani- mals in water. It expired in three minutes, the period in which immersion proves fatal to the other mammalia. Sir Anthony Carlisle has, therefore, committed an error, somewhat similar to that of M. Edwards, when he asserts that " animals of the class Mammalia, which hibernate and become torpid in winter, have at all times a power of subsisting under a confined respiration, which would destroy other animals not having this peculiar habit." * The power of bearing a suspended respiration is an in- duced state. It depends upon sleep or lethargy themselves, and their effect in impairing or sus- pending respiration; and upon the peculiar power of the left side of the heart, of becoming veno-contractile under these circumstances. The circulation is reduced to an extreme de- gree of slowness, according to a law well- known, but hitherto, I believe, unexplained, according to which the respiration and the cir- culation are always proportionate to each other. The wing of the bat affords an admirable op- portunity of observing the condition of the cir- culation during hibernation. But it requires peculiar management. If the animal be taken from its cage, and the wing extended under the microscope, it is roused by the operation, and its respiratory and other movements are so ex- cited, that all accurate observation of the condi- tion of the circulation in the minute vessels is completely frustrated. Still greater caution is required in this case than even in the observa- tion of the respiration and temperature. After some fruitless trials, I at length suc- ceeded perfectly in obtaining a view of the mi- nute circulation undisturbed. Having placed the animal in its state of hibernation, in a little box of mahogany, 1 gently drew out its wing through a crevice made in the side of the box; I fixed the tip of the extended wing between portions of cork ; I then attached the box and the cork to a piece of plate-glass; and lastly, I * Phil. Trans. 1805, p. 17. 3 e 2