HERMAPHRODITISM. 712 both sides of the body. With this arrange- ment, other malformations by duplicity of the sexual organs are generally combined; but these are so various in their character as not easily to admit of any useful generalization. In considering this third division of complex hermaphroditism, we shall mention, first, the cases in which two testicles and one. ovary are stated to have co-existed; and secondly, those in which there have been supposed to be pre- sent two testicles and two ovaries. Two testicles and one ovary.-—The two dis- sections that we have previously detailed of lateral hermaphroditic insects, (see Lateral Hermaphroditism, p. 696,) shew that in these two cases this variety of sexual duplicity existed. It appears to have been observed also in two instances of hermaphroditic malformation in the quadruped, the histories of which have been described by Mascagni and Mayer. In a bull, nine years of age, and which was provided with the usual external organs of the male, Mascagni found internally, on dis- section, a prostrate gland and two perfect vesicular seminales, vasa deferentia, epidi- dymes, and testicles. The testicles and epi- didymes were injected with mercury through the vasa deferentia. In addition there was dis- covered near the left testicle, and connected to it by peritonaeum and bloodvessels, a body having the structure of the female ovary ; and, in its normal situation, there existed a distended double uterus, containing from fifteen to sixteen pounds of a clear fluid. This uterus was furnished with two Fallopian tubes at its upper part, and terminated inferiorly in a vagina, which opened by a small orifice into the male urethra.* In a goat dissected by Mayer, f he found two testes with their epididy mes fully developed, and vasa deferentia and vesiculae seminales. One of the testes was placed without and the other still remained within the abdominal cavity. At the same time there were present a large fe- male vagina communicating with the urethra, and a double-horned uterus provided with two Fallopian tubes. One of these tubes terminated in a blind canal, but the other had placed at its abdominal extremity several vesicles, resem- bling, according to Mayer, Graafian vesicles, or an imperfect ovary. The vesicute seminales and (through regurgitation by the urethra and ejaculatory ducts) the cavities of the vagina and uterus, were filled with about four ounces of a whitish fluid, having the colour and odour of male semen. This fluid could not be found by the microscope to contain any seminal ani- malcules, but only simple and double Monades (Monades termones et guttulas). Bergmann, however, is alleged to have found it, on analysis, to contain the same chemical principle that characterizes human male semen. Two testicles and two ovaries.—Various in- stances have now been published in which this sexual duplicity has been supposed to exist * Atti dell' Acad, delle Scienze di Siena, t. viii. p. 201. t Icones, p. 20. among cattle and other domestic quadrupeds, as well as in the human subject. One of the free-martins* described by Mr. Hunter comes under this variety. In the case referred to, in the situation of the ovaries " were placed," to use Mr. Hunter's words, " both the ovaria and testicles,"—or, as Sir Everard Home, in alluding to this case, more justly expresses it, " an appearance like both testicles and ovaria was met with close toge- ther."! The two contiguous bodies were nearly of the same size, being each about as large as a small nutmeg. There were no Fallopian tubes running to the ovaries, but a horn of an imperfect uterus passed on to them on each side along the broad ligament. Pervious vasa deferentia were found ; they did not, however, reach up completely to the testicle on either side, or form epididymes. The vesicula; semi- nales were present, and much smaller than in the perfect bull. The external parts appear to have been those of the cow, but smaller than natural. The vagina passed on, as in the cow, to the opening of the urethra, and, after having received it and the orifices of the seminal ducts, it began to contract into a small canal, which ran upwards through the uterus to the place of division of that organ into its two horns. Velpeau,t in his work on Midwifery, men- tions that in an embryo calf, he had " found reunited the testicles and ovaries, the vasa deferentia, and uterus." In an hermaphroditic foal-ass, Mr. Hunter§ found both what he considered to be two ovaries placed in the natural situation of these bodies, and two testicles lying in the inguinal rings in a process or theca of peritonaeum similar to the tunica vaginalis communis in the male ass. No vasa deferentia or Fallopian tubes could be detected; but there was a double-horned uterus present, and from its broad ligaments, (to the edges of which the comua uteri and ovaries were attached,) there passed down on either side into the inguinal rings a part similar to the round ligament in the female. The horns and fundus of the uterus were pervious ; but its body and cervix, and the canal of the vagina from above the opening of the urethra into it, were imperforate. The external parts were similar to those of the female ass; but the clitoris, which was placed within the entrance of the vagina, was much larger than that of a perfectly formed female; it measured about five inches. The animal had two nipples. Scnba has given an account|| of an herma- phroditic sheep, in which two large testicles are stated to have been found in the scrotum, at the same time that there existed, in their nor- mal situation, two moderately sized ovaries, and a small uterus furnished with two appa- rently closed Fallopian tubes. The external sexual parts appear to have been those of a * An. Econ. p. 63-64, pi. ix. t Comp. Anat. vol. iii. p. 322- | Traite de l'Art des Accouchemens, t. i. p. 114. & An. Econ. p. 58. \\ Schrifteu dtr Gesellschaft Naturforschendcr Fieude zu Berlin, Bd. x. s. 367.