146 ERECTILE TISSUE. represents the plexiform arrangement of the veins apparent on the surface of the glans, and which empty themselves into the superficial veins of the penis. Miiller having more recently investigated the structure of the penis, has announced the discovery of two sets of arteries in that organ, differing from one another in their size, their mode of termination, and their use; the first he calls nourishing twigs (raminutritii), which are distributed upon the walls of the veins and throughout the spongy substance, differing in no respect from the nutritive arteries of other parts; they anastomose with each other freely,, and end in the general capillary network. The second set of arteries he calls arteria heli- cmm. In order to see these vessels, an injection of size and vermilion should be thrown into a separated penis through the avteria profunda: when the injection has become cold, the corpora cavernosa should be cut open longitu- dinally, and that portion of the injection which has escaped into the cells carefully washed out. If the tissue of the corpora cavernosa be now examined at its posterior third with a lens, it will be seen that, in addition to the nutritious arteries, there is another class of vessels of different form, size, and distribution. These branches are short, being about a line in length and a fifth of a millimetre in diameter; they are given off from the larger branches as well as from the finest twigs of the artery. Although fine, they are still easily recognised with the naked eye ; most of them come off at a right angle, and projecting into the cavities of the spongy substance, either terminate abruptly or swell out into a club-like process without again subdividing. These vessels appear most obvious and are most easily examined in the penis of man, to which the following description refers. These twigs branch off from place to place, sometimes alone, and sometimes in little bundles of from three to ten in number; these, as well as the former, project constantly into the cells or venous cavities of the corpora cavernosa penis. When the arteries thus form a bundle, they arise by a common stem. Sometimes such a vessel, whether it proceeds from the artery as a single branch or as part of a cluster, divides into two or three parallel branches, which also either terminate abruptly, or else swell out near their extremity. Almost all these arteries have this character, that they are bent like a horn, so that the end describes half a circle, or somewhat more. When such a branch so divides itself, there are formed doubly bent twigs inclined one to the other. Many of these arteries enlarge towards their end; this enlargement is gradual, and is greatest at tome little distance from the extremity, so that the end is somewhat conical, terminating immediately in a rounded point without giving off any branches. The diameter of these arte- rial twigs, in their middle, is from one-fifth to one-sixth of a millimetre: those which branch off from the trunk of the arteria profunda penis are no larger than those which arise from its finest twigs. It is by no means unusual to observe the finest twigs of the arteria profunda giving off branches of this kind which seem much thicker than the twig from which they arose. The annexed figure (fig. 98) (from Muller's Archiv.) repre- sents a portion of the arteria profunda penis of man, with its arteria helicina somewhat mag- nified. These remarkable arte- ries have a great resem- blance to the tendrils of the vine, only that they are so much shorter in proportion to their thick- ness, whence they have received the name arteria? helicina3. Their termi- nations may also be com- pared to a crosier. .By a more minute examination of these vessels either with the lens or with the microscope, it will be seen that, although they at all times project into the venous cavities of the corpora cavernosa, yet they are not entirely naked, but are covered with a delicate mem- brane, which under the microscope appears granular (Jig. 99). After a more forcible in- jection this envelope is no longer visible. When the arteries form a bundle, the whole is covered by a slight gauze-like membrane. With respect to this in- vesting membrane, Profes- sor Miiller appears- to con- sider it as performing an important part in producing the phenomena of erection. These tendril-like arteries have neither on their surface nor their extremities any openings discoverable with the aid of the microscope; and when the blood, as it is probable, escapes from them in large masses into the cells of the corpora cavernosa during erection, it must either traverse invisible openings, or pass through small openings which become en- larged by the dilatation of these arteries. If the great number of the tendril-like branches of the arteria profunda be compared with the very fine nutritious twigs of the same vessel, it is evident that when the former are filled they must take up the greater part of the blood of the arteria profunda; the diameter of the profunda therefore not only includes its nu- tritious twigs, but also the tendril-like branches, which derive their blood from it, yet pro- bably allow none to pass except during erec- tion ; therefore the blood in the unerected state only traverses the nutritive branches and ar- rives at the commencement of the venous cells in smaller quantities, while during erection it probably passes in considerable quantity into the cells through these tendril-like vessels. Professor Miiller, after pointing out the dif- ference between the tendril-shaped vessels and the looped vessels discovered by Weber in the