920 INSECTA. cated, is an elevated scutellum. It is marked on the median line by a longitudinal suture, and in some genera by two others, one on each side of this. In the Chrysididce, these lateral markings completely divide the scutum into three distinct pieces, the two outermost of which are those to which Mr. Macleay has given the name of parapsides, and which he somewhat curiously suggests may probably be a third pair of paraptera,* those of the pro- thorax, pushed out of their proper place. But, as remarked by Audouin,f in his notes to Mr. Macleay's paper, were this the case, it would indeed be a most singular displacement; at the same time we are compelled to acknowledge that we hesitate to admit the explanation which M. Audouin has given of the nature of these pieces. He regards them as mere divisions of the scutum, and not as elementary parts. If this be the case, other parts that are consi- dered as distinct pieces may with equal justice be regarded as only occasional divisions of more important ones. They seem rather to in- dicate the division of the skeleton into a much greater number of parts than are at present recognized in it. We are led to this opinion from the circumstance that these markings exist more or less distinct in very many species. We have found them very distinctly in the dried skeleton of Bombus terrestris. The scu- tellum (3 c) is of large dimensions in most of the Hymenoptera, and is usually considerably elevated above the level of the scutum. It is in general of a triangular figure, and in many species of this order, as well as in some Dip- tera, is a marked character of the thorax being often armed with spines. The post-scutellum is not developed externally, but its position is indicated by an elevated ridge, which is ex- tended forwards on each side from the hinder part of the scutellum very nearly to the base of the anterior pair of wings, as in the Diptera and Lepidoptera, and indicates the boundary of the segment. It forms the meso-phrug?na, and as Mr. Macleay has remarked in Polistes, is connected with the scutum only at the sides, being deficient in the middle line. The pec- toral surface of this segment, the meso-sternum, is larger in Ichneumon Atropos {fig. 390) than in many other species. In form it is nearly quadrate (3 g). It covers the whole under surface of the segment, and is divided by a deep fissure into two halves. At its ante- rior margin it is united by an indistinct suture to a thin plate, the episternum, (Z J\) that covers the front of this part of the segment, and is almost hidden behind the pro-thoracic legs, and it has sometimes been considered as forming part of that segment. Its lateral portion passes upwards posteriorly to the collar of the pro- thorax, and forms a process that projects be- neath the anterior pair of wings, and above the epimeron, (3 h,) which is the chief portion of the side of this segment. At its inferior margin this piece is united by an indistinct suture to the sternum, at its anterior to the episternum, * Op. cit. p. 169. " t Annates de Sciences Natuiales. 1831. id at its posterior it is articulated witfi te coxa of one of the middle pair of legs. Fig. 390. Lateral view of thorax of Ichneumon Atropos. 2g, episternum; 2 h, epimeron and scutellum of pro-thorax meso-thorax ; 3 i, scutum ; 3 c, scutellum ; 4 d, frenum ; * stigma ; 3 h, epi- meron ; 3 g, sternum ; 3 f, episternum ; 5, scu- tellum ; 4 b, scutum of meta-thorax ; 6 to 14, segments of the abdomen. The next segment, the meta-thorax, is an exceed- ingly interesting portion of the body, owing to the varied extent to which it is developed in the different Orders of Insects ; and on account more particularly of the question that has been started, as to whether this portion of the thorax in Hymenoptera is formed entirely by the fourth segment of the larva, or whether a por- tion of the fifth also enters into the composition of its posterior part, as believed by Audouin and Latreille. According to Mr. Macleay, the first piece of its dorsal surface or meta-notum, the pra-scutum, is very distinct in Polistes, while the scutum is concealed within the tho- rax, being developed inwards to form a pliragma, only a part of it being visible la- terally, but which, as usual, is connected with the posterior pair of wings, a circumstance that invariably characterises the scutum in all in- sects. In Ichneumon Atropos, the prce-scutum exists immediately behind the scutellum of the meta-thorax, and covers part of the scutum, intse (4 b,) which, although much encroached upon in the median line by the developement back- wards of this part and the scutellum of the preceding segments, is a distinct region on each side of the meta-notum, and gives origin to the posterior pair of wings. This sufficiently iden- tifies the part as the proper scutum, otherwise it might be mistaken for the pra-scutum of Polistes, which is considerably more developed than in Ichneumon Atropos. But the greater part of the scutum is developed inwards, and forms a deep cleft or incision, that divides the segment into two parts transversely, the poste-