621 FIBRES OF THE HEART. them within their proper spheres of action, and since the fibres of the heart are devoid of this agent, the question arises as to what other retaining power these possess. On this head no difficulty presents itself; for the fibres, in winding round and round the cavity of the left ventricle, become arranged in concentric layers ; and in taking a larger sweep, in surrounding the right ventricle, the same arrangement is preserved, so that during the systole of the heart the whole mass of the fibres firmly com- press each other, which necessarily retains them all within their proper spheres of action, ex- cepting the superficial fibres, of which those towards the base, and especially those upon the right ventricle, where there is great latitude of motion, do not preserve a parallelism with their subjacent fibres, but lie nearly at right angles with them. It is on this account, most proba- bly, that the superficial fibres have attracted notice, and have been viewed as a distinct layer. The disposition of the fibres varies in diffe- rent parts of the heart, forming parallel lines, angles, decussations, flat and spiral twists. The fibres are arranged in fasciculi, bands, layers, and a rope, which are so entwined together as to form the two chambers called the right and left ventricles. These are lined with their in- ternal proper membrane. The fasciculi are connected with the aorta, pulmonary artery, and carnea? columnar, and contribute to the formation of the bands. The bands.—By tracing the fibres in bands, we are enabled to develop the formation of the ventricles in a progressive and systematic man- ner. The bands spring from a mass of fibres which forms the apicial part of the left ventricle, and which, in winding round just above the apex of the heart, separates into two bands to form the right ventricle. It will render the demonstration more intel- ligible if a preliminary and cursory view be taken of the general course of these bands (fig. 283, p. 626,) by referring to the diagram. The bands, as there given, form a mere skeleton of the heart, merely indicating the se- veral courses they take. The average width of the bands is not less than a third of the extent between the apex and base of the left ventricle. In the diagram, crc indicates the winding of a considerable mass of fibres just above the apex; at the septum, s, it splits into two bands. The shorter, Cacc, encircles spirally both ventricles, one half round the right, the other round the left ventricle. The longer band de- scribes two circles: it first passes through the septum, round the left ventricle marked Cpca ; it secondly passes round the base, and includes both ventricles in its circuit, marked progressively Cpcaa, Cpcaaa, CpcaaaaC, and RE. After employing so many letters, it is requi- site to explain that as the bands are frequently receiving fresh accessions of fibres, it is desira- ble to characterise those increments individually by the initials of the names of the respective sources from which they are derived; and in order to make a distinction between the indica- tions of the fibres and of their respective origins, the latter are characterised by double, and the former by single initials. Accordingly, the aorta, the pulmonary artery, the rope, and the carneae columnar are designated aa, pp, kr, and cc, while their fibres are marked a, p, r, and c. This plan is modified in one instance only, viz., the fibres of the main bulk of the heart, being derived from the rope and the two carnea? columnse of the left ventricle, are desig- nated in the first instance by their proper ini- tials crc ; but as numerous increments of fibres are being made, in succession, to these three original sets, it is convenient to make an abbreviation in the lettering; thus, crc is in- dicated by C large, when combined with other initials; accordingly, crca is con- tracted to Ca, and crcpca to Cpca, and so with the rest. The layers.-—Although the heart admits of being split into a number of layers, yet there being no material division formed by fasciae or condensed cellular membrane, such separations are strictly arbitrary. It is, however, found convenient to separate the fibres into certain layers, in order to give a methodical de- monstration of the formation of this organ. The same remarks obtain regarding the bands. It is generally supposed that the superficial fibres properly constitute a distinct layer, form- ing a common sac, which encloses the two ventricles. This is not strictly the case, for it lias the same origins and terminations as have the fibres immediately subjacent to it. Neverthe- less, the superficial fibres are, in the following description, considered as a separate layer, to show the peculiar construction of the apex. The rope.—It has already been stated that the longer of the two bands terminates at the base in the rope. The fibres of this band, in forming the brim of the left ventricle, make a sharp twist like those of a rope, by which means they become the inner fibres of this chamber, and expand into a layer which enters largely into the formation of the mass which divides into the two bands. So the principal band, although it receives several increments of fibres, has no complete beginning nor ending, a considerable portion of it originating and ter- minating in itself, which circumstance renders it necessary to fix upon the most convenient part of its course for the commencement of the demonstration. Although the system here adopted of unra- velling the fibres of the heart be strictly arbi- trary, as every other must be, yet it will, most probably, be found the only method by which all the various courses, and several connexions made by the fibres in forming the heart, could be displayed. The demonstration.—It is requisite to pur- sue two methods of demonstration ;—one, de- scribing the dissection, or unfolding, which consists in unravelling and separating the fibres, and tracing, from the circumference to the cen- tre of the heart, their various courses, in the form of bands, by which they become in order unwound, and by which a general view of the formation of the two ventricles is at the