FACE. 225 that the orbicularis may be divided both ana- tomically and physiologically into two sets of fibres; an outer, or orbicularis proper, which is entirely a voluntary muscle, and an inner (the palpebrals) which is both voluntary and involuntary in its action. These fibres may act independently of each other, for in wink- ing and during sleep the palpebralis contracts, while the orbicularis is quiescent; and the orbicularis may contract even strongly, as when we peer with the eyes under the influence of a strong light, while the fibres of the pal- pebrals are relaxed. It has been supposed, however, by some, that during sleep the lid is closed simply by the weight of the upper palpebra, and the relaxation of its proper elevator muscle, but this seems in contra- diction to the fact that we meet with resistance in endeavouring to unclose the lids of a sleep- ing person. Corrugator supercilii, which is the associate of the orbicularis palpebrarum, has been al- ready described, together with the occipito- frontalis, which is the antagonist of those muscles. See Cranium, muscles of the, vol. i. p. 747. Levator palpebra superioris ( orbito-palpe- bral), though situated within the orbit, is nevertheless the direct antagonist of the palbe- bralis, and is therefore properly described with these muscles of the face. It is a thin trian- gular muscle, which arises by a narrow slen- der tendon at the back of the orbit from the inferior surface of the lesser wing of the sphe- noid bone, above and in front of the optic foramen ; from this origin the fibres proceed almost horizontally forwards under the roof of the orbit, and gradually spreading and be- coming thinner as they advance, curve over the globe of the eye, and are inserted into the upper border and anterior surface of the upper lid. Relations.—Its upper surface is in contact, behind, with the frontal branch of the ophthal- mic nerve, which with some cellular tissue alone separates it from the periosteum of the roof of the orbit; anteriorly with cellular tissue and the palpebral fascia, which separate it from the orbicularis. The lower surface behind rests upon the superior rectus oculi, with which it is connected by cellular tissue, and anteriorly on the conjunctiva and upper lid. Its action is to raise the upper lid, and to draw it backwards over the globe and under the supra-ciliary ridge. There is no separate muscle to effect the depression of the lower lid, that action being occasioned, as Sir C. Bell ingeniously suggested, by the protrusion of the eyeball. Nasal region.—The muscles of this region, some of which are common to the upper lip, are, 1. the pyramidalis; 2. the levator labii superioris alaque nasi; 3. the triangularis nasi; 4. the depressor ala nasi. Pyramidalis is situated between the brows, and may be considered as a prolongation of the inner fibres of the frontalis: it is of a triangular form ; its base above is continuous with the fibres of the frontalis; below it con- tracts and is inserted into the aponeurotic ex- pansion of the triangularis nasi. It is sepa- rated from its fellow slip of the opposite side by a groove of cellular tissue. Relations.— Its superficial surface adheres to the skin; its deep one rests on the nasal eminence of the frontal bone, the nasal bones, and part of the lateral cartilage of the nose. Use.—If this muscle acts at all on the nose, it is by drawing up the skin when the occipito- frontaiis is in action. Its more probable use is to give a fixed point to the frontalis, and to draw down the inner extremity of the brows and the skin between them. Levator labii superioris alaque nasi.—(I', fig. 134.) This is a thin, long, triangular Fig. 134. muscle, placed nearly vertically on each side of the nose. It arises narrow from the outer surface of the nasal process of the upper max- illary bone, immediately beneath the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum. It descends obliquely outwards, becoming broader, and terminates inferiorly by two slips, an internal short one, which is attached to the cartilage of the ala nasi, or to the fibrous membrane which invests it; and an outer longer slip, which is attached to the skin of the upper lip near the nose, and mingles its fibres with the transversalis nasi, the levator labii superioris proprius, and the orbicularis oris. Relations.—Covered by the skin, and over- lapped a little above by the orbicularis pal- pebrarum, this muscle covers the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, the triangularis nasi, and the depressor ala nasi. Its inner border above corresponds to the pyramidalis. Its action is to raise the ala of the nose and the adjacent part of the upper lip; in so doing it dilates also the nostril and becomes a muscle of inspiration. When strongly thrown into action, it corrugates the skin of the nose trans- versely.