584 HEART. sion of the musculi papillares into two fasciculi; by their subdivision, on the other hand, into several smaller bundles, but so grouped that the position of the smaller corresponds to the larger; and by the smaller columns furnishing a certain number of the cords usually given off by the larger; yet there appears to be a remark- able similarity between the course and arrange- ment of the chordre tendineae in all cases. The object of this we will afterwards see when inquiring into the precise manner in which these valves prevent regurgitation into the auricle during the systole of the ventricle. The origin of the aorta is furnished with three semilunar valves (Jig. 269), which very exactly resemble in their position, shape, and appearance those placed at the commencement of the pulmonary artery. They are somewhat stronger, and have the corpora sesamoidea generally larger than those in the pulmonary artery. Behind these valves are three dilatations (sinuses of' Valsalva) upon the commencement of the aorta, similar to, but more prominent, than those at the com- mencement of the pulmonary artery (Jig. 269). It was maintained by several of the older eminent anatomists that the semilunar valves must necessarily cover the entrance of the coronary arteries,* and that they were filled, not during the passage of the blood along the aorta, but by the falling back of part of it during the diastole of the heart, or as Boer- haave expressed it, " Heb arterise sunt in dias- tole, dum reliquae corporis arteriae in systole constitiiuntur."f Haller mentions two circum- stances which must satisfy every one, if any thing more than the bare inspection of the parts was necessary, that the coronary arteries are at least generally filled in the same manner as the other arteries which arise from the aorta, and these are—1st, the result of experiments on living animals, where the blood is seen to spring per saltum from the cut coronary arteries during the systole of the heart; 2d, when a fatus is injected by the umbilical vein, the coronary arteries are also filled. More lately, however, VaustJ has maintained that the origin of the coronary arteries is generally covered by the semilunar valves. He states that he has injected a great number of hearts from the pulmonary veins; in some of these the injection passed into the coronary^arteries, but in by much the greater number these vessels did not contain a single drop of injection. On examination of these cases he found that the semilunar valves entirely covered the origin of the coronary arteries. In attempting to ascertain this point on the uninjected heart, we must bear in mind the different conditions of the aorta in the living body and after death. In the dead body the sinuses of Valsalva are collapsed, so that the semilunar valves can be laid over the origin of the coronary arteries in some cases, where they * Morgagni was doubtful in this matter, and thought that he had observed them sometimes covered by the valves, at other times free. Advers. v., Animadver. xxv. t Institut. Med. 183. \ Recherches sur la Structure ct les Mouvements du Cceur, p. 22, (1821.) would become free when the sinuses are dis- tended as they axe with blood in the living body. Making every allowance for this source of fallacy, I am satisfied that I have seen one or two cases in which these valves appeared fairly to cover the origin of the coronary arteries. Supposing that the origin of the coronary arteries were covered in some instances by the valves, it would in all probability be a matter of little moment, as far as the efficiency of the circulation through these arteries was concerned, as long as the aorta retained its elasticity, for the force with which it drives the distending fluid backwards during the diastole of the heart (a force which can be ascertained in the dead body) would be sufficient to carry on the circulation. The circumstances would, how- ever, become very much altered in those cases which are sufficiently common in advanced age, where the aorta has from disease of its coats entirely lost its elasticity, and the coronary arteries have also become studded with calca- reous matter, unless we suppose what could scarcely happen, that the blood contained in the sinuses is forced along the arteries when the valves are thrown outwards.* Septum of the ventricles.—The septum be- tween the ventricles is triangular, and the apex extends to the point of the heart. It is of considerable thickness at the base, but becomes thinner at the apex. Its position is oblique like that of the heart. It is concave towards the right ventricle, and convex towards the left. From the slight rotation of the heart on its axis, the anterior surface of the septum is directed towards the right side, and the posterior towards the left. It is composed, like the other walls of the ventricle, principally of muscular fibres, lined on the one side by the internal serous membrane of the right ventricle, and on the other side by the corresponding membrane of the left. We have preferred considering the relative thickness of the parietes, the different capacities of the several cavities of the heart, the relative dimensions of the auriculo-ventricular, aortic, and pulmonary orifices, and the size and weight of the heart under distinct heads, not only as this enables us to obtain a more connected view than we could otherwise have done of points upon which there are many conflicting opinions, and upon which it is so frequently necessary to possess, as far as we possibly can, accurate notions in deciding upon the normal or abnormal state of the organ, but we were also afraid that if mixed up with the other parts of the descriptive anatomy they would have * Among the numerous and striking examples which the history of medical science furnishes us of the powerful tendency which preconceived notions have, if not powerfully guarded against, of influencing our observations of the plainest facts, we may instance the statements of Petriolus on this question. He, apparently deeply imbued with the old hypothesis that the heart is the seat of courage, maintained that in bold and carnivorous animals the coronary arteries were above the valves; in timid and herbivorous animals, on the contrary, they arose behind the valves, while in man they were of uncertain origin, as he was bold or timid.