INSECTIVORA. 995 Fig. 440. raeter in the structure of the hair, which favours the habits I have mentioned, and which will be presently described. In the Erinaceada (see fig. 451) we still have hibernating animals, but these, instead of burrowing or descending into deep excavations, conceal themselves only under leaves, or in any superficial hollow, and live upon food which they either find upon the sur- face or dig out of the ground with their hard moveable muzzle ; the character of their integu- ment is very peculiar, the hair being modified into spines of a greateror less degree of firmness, and the animals being mostly capable of rolling themselves into a ball, and thus presenting a panoply of sharp spines to their enemies. The last-named group, which I have named Tupai- ad<e, (fig. 452) partake, as before observed, of the character of the Insectivorous Quadru- mana; living in trees, which they climb with all the agility of a monkey or a squirrel. They consist but of a single genus, named by the late Sir Stamford Raffles, Tupaia, of which three species are well distinguished. They are na- tives of Java. I. Osteology.—It can scarcely be said that there is any peculiarity of structure in the ske- letons of the whole of the insectivora, in which they differ essentially from other groups ; but on the other hand, there are many in which they differ from each other, according to the very striking and obvious diversity of their ha- bits. In the family Talpida, the genus Tulpa (fig. 440) presents itself as the type. In these animals the cranium is greatly elongated, and of a tapering or conical form, a character which it partakes with the Soricida, but to a still more remarkable degree. The cra- nium of the Chrysochloris, or Cape-mole, the South African representative of this family, presents this character in the most regular form. It is, in fact, a perfect cone, short, pointed at the muzzle, broad behind, where the base of the cone is distinctly circumscribed by a crest, which passes from the root of the zygomatic arch of one side, over the vertex, to the cor- responding point on the other; on the sides of the head the zygomatic arches themselves com- plete the cone, passing obliquely and in a straight line from the maxillary to the temporal bone, and beneath it is completed by the in- clination inwards of the symphysis, the rami, and the coracoid processes of the lower jaw. The portion posterior to the base of the cone is rounded. In the genera Talpa(figAAi) and Condijtura the head is equally but less regularly conical, and the snout is more elongated; the zygomatic Fig. 441. arch is extremely slender, and rises obliquely, joining the cranium considerably above the audi- tory meatus. A similar conformation is seen in the genus Scalops, which I have already mentioned as leading from the Talpida to the Soricida. This form is admirably suited for their subter- ranean progression, as they push their way through the soil by their long moveable snout, which acts in some measure as a wedge. Amongst the Soricidce, the Scalops approaches in its structure most nearly to the Talpida, having the almost perfectly conical form of the head which belongs to that family; and all the Soricida partake of it to a greater or less degree. But the cranium of the Erinaceadtz approaches more nearly to that of the Carnivora; and viewed from above, the sides are nearly parallel, the zygomatic arches projecting further than the posterior part of the cranium. The muzzle is shorter, more obtuse, and somewhat narrower than the cranium, which is com- pressed forwards. In Centenes the head is much more elongated and conical. The genus Tupaia has the head nearly oval, the muzzle straight, prominent, much smaller than the cra- nium, the zygomatic arches but slightly pro- minent, and the circle of the orbit closed pos- teriorly, a circumstance which is not found in any other of the order Insectivora. In this