DIGESTION. 14 indeed be received as a very general rule that a certain quantity of matter, which in itself contains but a small proportion of the princi- ples which immediately serve for nutrition, js necessary for the due performance of the func- tions of the stomach, probably in some degree for the purpose of mere dilution or mechanical division. The same remark applies to sugar as to oil. Sugar would appear to be one of the most nutritive of the proximate principles, but when taken alone or in too great quantity it deranges the digestive organs, and becomes incapable of supporting life.* The difference in the different kinds of ali- ment between their capacity of affording, the materials from which chyme may be produced, and the facility with which they are acted upon by the stomach, or in ordinary language, be- tween their nutritive and their digestible quality, has been distinctly recognized by various phy- siologists,t although it has not always been sufficiently attended to. We have some strik- ing illustrations of the fact in a series of expe- riments which were performed by Goss,J and in those of Stark,ยง where the digestibility and the nutrition of various species of aliment bore no relation to each other, while they afford the most decisive proof of the advantage, or rather the necessity, of a mixture of substances, in order to produce the compound which is the best adapted for the action of the stomach. We have referred above to the difference in the digestive powers of the stomachs of diffe- rent classes of animals as depending on their peculiar organization. In many instances the difference is so strongly marked as to leave no doubt either as to its existence or as to the cause by which it is directly produced. But there are many cases where we observe the effect without being able to assign any imme- diate cause for it; where substances, which are highly nutritive and perfectly salutary to certain individuals, are apparently incapable of being digested by others. After making all due al- lowance for the effects of habit, association, or even caprice, there still appears sufficient ground for concluding that there are original differences in the powers of the stomach, which cannot be assigned to any more general prin- ciple. This observation applies principally to the individuals of the human species, where such variations, or, as they have been termed, idiosyncrasies, of all descriptions are much more apparent than in any other kind of ani- mals. All other animals, even those which the most nearly resemble the human species, are much more uniform in this respect, being guided in the choice of their food principally by that instinctive feeling which leads them he found that animals could not be fed upon pure sugar, oil, or gum-, Physiol, t. ii. p.390, and Ann. Chim. et Phys. t. iii. p. 66 et seq. ; see Bos- tock's Physiol, v. ii. p. 467, 8. * Haller, El. Phys. xix. 3. 12; Stark's Works, p. 94 et alibi; Pearson's Synopsis, p. 104, 5. t Adelon et Chaussier, Diet. Sc. Med. Art. " Digestion," t. ix. t Spallanzani, Sur la Digestion, par Senebier, p. cxxxi...cxl. ยง Works, p. 89 et seq. to select the substances which are the best adapted for their organs. But even here we meet with ceitain peculiarities, where animals prefer certain kinds of aliment, and where there is no obvious anatomical or physiological cause which can explain the effect. This, however, we may regard as an exception to the general rule, for there is perhaps no one of the functions in which we are enabled more clearly to trace the adaptation of the organ to the struc- ture and habits of the animal, than in what respects the supply of nutrition, including the mode of procuring the food, and the whole of the series of changes which it experiences from the digestive organs.* Liquids of various kinds constitute an im- portant part of the diet of almost all indivi- duals. They may be arranged under the two divisions of those liquids which we employ merely for the purpose of quenching thirst, or diluting our solid food, or such as are made the vehicles of nutriment, including various kinds of decoctions and infusions. The latter are derived both from the animal and the vege- table kingdoms, and when duly prepared form a species of food, which, as containing the most soluble and the most sapid portions, is, in most cases, both highly nutritive and diges- tible. But we observe here the same kind of idiosyncrasy to which we referred above, and which it frequently becomes necessary to attend to in the directions that are given respecting diet, and more especially to invalids and to children. The liquids that are employed for the pur- pose of quenching thirst, which are more pro- perly styled drinks, may be arranged under the two heads of vegetable infusions or decoctions and fermented liquors. Of the former a great variety have been employed in different coun- tries and at different periods, but in Europe, almost the only kinds which are in common use are tea and coffee. These cannot be con- sidered as in themselves affording any nourish- ment, but they are generally employed with the addition of some nutritive substance, and if not taken in excess, would appear to promote digestion, and to exercise a favourable influence on the system at large. It has been observed that all tribes of people that have made the least advances in the arts of life, either by accidental observation or by tradition, have become acquainted with the process of fermentation, and have indulged in the use of certain species of vinous liquors. The making of wine is among the first transac- tions that are recorded of Noah after he left the ark, and the experiment which he made of its effects has been but too frequently repeated by his progeny. The basis of all vinous liquors being the saccharine principle, the grape has been naturally had recourse to in all those parts of the world which are adapted to the growth of the vine; in the more northern regions, as in our own island, different species of grains are employed, in which the sugar is evolved by an artificial process, while in the torrid zone, * Bostock's Physiol, v. ii. p. 469, 70.