736 HERMAPHRODITISM. as those published by Mr. Cribb, and have obtained authentic information regarding forty- two adult married females who had been born as twins with males. Of these, thirty-six were mothers of families, and six had no children, though all of them had been married for a number of years. Two of the females who have families were each born as a triplet with two males.* In the Medical Repository for 1827 (p. 350) an anonymous author has men- tioned an instance of quadruplets consisting of three boys and a girl, who were all reared : the female afterwards became herself the mother of triplets. Limited as the data to which we here allude confessedly are, they are still amply sufficient to show that in by far the majority of cases the females of twins of opposite sexes are in the human subject actually fertile, and, as some of the cases we have collected show, they are occasionally unusually prolific. On the other hand, however, it may be con- sidered by some that the same data rather tend in a slight degree, as far as they go, to support the popular prejudice of the infecundity in a number of cases of the female twin, and her analogy in this respect with the free-martin cow; for out of the forty-two instances which we have mentioned, we find six in which the woman has had no children, though living in wedlock for a number of years, or one out of seven of the marriages of such women has proved an unproductive one,—a proportion, we believe, considerably above the average of unproductive marriages in society in general, or among women of any other class. But perhaps, before drawing any very decided conclusion with regard to this point, a more extended foundation of data would be requisite than any we have hitherto been able to adduce, as it is perfectly possible that our having met with six exceptional cases may be a mere matter of coincidence. As to the cause of the malformation and consequent infecundity of the organs of gene- ration in the free-martin cow, we will not ven- ture to offer any conjecture in explanation of it. It appears to us to be one of the strangest facts in the whole range of teratological science, that the twin existence in utero of a male along with a female should entail upon the latter so great a degree of malformation in its sexual organs, and in its sexual organs only. The circumstance becomes only the more inexpli- cable when we consider this physiological law to be confined principally or entirely to the cow, and certainly not to hold with regard to sheep, or perhaps any other uniparous animal. The curiosity of the fact also becomes heightened and increased when we recollect that when the cow or any other uniparous ani- mal has twins both of the same sex, as two males or two females, these animals are always both perfectly formed in their sexual organiza- tion, and both capable of propagating. In the course of making the preceding inquiries after * Notes of the histories of these cases individu- ally were read to a meeting of the Royal Physical Society of Edinburgh in the beginning of 1837. females born co-twins with males in the human subject, we have had a very great number of cases of purely female and purely male twins mentioned to us, who had grown up and be- come married, and in only two or three in- stances at most have we heard of an unpro- ductive marriage among such persons. Further, we may, in conclusion, remark that among the long list of individual cases of her- maphroditism in the human subject that we have had occasion to cite, we find only one instance, (Eschricht's case of transverse herma- phroditism,) in which the malformed being is stated to have been a twin. Katsky, however, Naegele, and Saviard have each, as before stated, mentioned a case in which both twins were hermaphroditically formed in their sexual organs. HERMAPHRODITISM IN DOUBLE MONSTERS. One of the most curious facts in the history of double monsters is the great rarity of an opposite or hermaphroditic sexual type in their two component bodies, the genital organs of both bodies being almost always either both female or both male. Physiological science affords us at present no satisfactory clue to the explanation of this singular circumstance. From two cases of double monstrous embryos observed in the egg of the domestic fowl by Wolff* and Baer,f and from a similar case met with in the egg of the goose by Dr. Allen Thomson, it appears certain that double monsters sometimes originate upon a single yolk, probably in consequence of the existence of two cicatricula? upon this yolk,J or of two germinal points (or two of the vesi- cles of Purkinje and Wagner) upon a single cicatricula. In such a case the two bodies of the double monster are so early and intimately united together as to form, almost from the commencement of development, a single sys- tem ; and therefore the fact of the uniformity of their sexual character is the less remarkable. But in other instances when the double mon- ster originates (as from the phenomena of in- cubation in double-yolked eggs we know to be frequently the case,) on two separate yolks or in two separate embryos becoming fused or united together, at a more advanced stage of develop- ment, it appears more extraordinary that the sexes of the two conjoined foetuses should be so constantly uniform as they seem to be in monsters perfectly double. This uniformity only becomes the more singular when we re- flect that twin children are not at all unfrequently of opposite sexes.§ * Nov. Comment. Acad. Petropolit. torn. xiv. p. 456. t Meckel's Archiv. fur Physiologie, &c. for 1827, p. 576. \ We have in our possession a preparation, taken from a duck's egg, in which two full-grown futuses are developed on opposite sides of a single yolk of the common size. § In the Edinburgh Lying-in Hospital forty-six cases of twins occurred from 1823 to 1836, both years inclusive. In seventeen of these cases the two children were both females ; in sixteen both males ; and in the remaining thirteen instances one child was male and the other female. We know of