756 HERNIA. The hernia by direct descent is distinguished from the oblique, 1st, by the appearance of the groin, the apex of the tumour being at the situation of the external ring, and there being no enlargement whatever in the direction of the inguinal canal : this diagnostic, however, has been found fallacious, for in old oblique hernia the internal ring is dragged down and made to approach the external so as to appear to form one continuous opening. Nor is it easy to point out the difference even in dissection ex- cept by the position of the epigastric artery, which in case of oblique descent always lies to the pubic side of the neck of the sac. The neck in some of these cases appears to be arched over and strongly constricted by the superior portion of the ruptured conjoined tendon, which in these cases is more than usually developed, and (as it were) in a state of hypertrophy. It was probably this appearance that led to a belief that strangulation was occa- sionally produced by the action of these mus- cles. 2nd, By the relative position of the tumour with respect to the different structures composing the cord. The cremaster muscle in any hernia cannot be felt, but it occupies nearly its usual position in this, being spread out like a fascia in front of it, but rather towards its outside. The spermatic cord properly so called passes on its external rather than on its pos- terior side; and although all its constituent vessels may be separated in this as in any other species of large and old hernia?, yet generally there is less divarication in this, and the parts lie together more compactly. 3rd, " This tumour differs from the common bubonocele in being situated nearer the penis."* This is cer- tainly true when it is only bubonocele; but when it has descended into the scrotum, the same difficulty that has been noticed as apper- taining to old ruptures must also obtain here. In applying this diagnostic the student must recollect that the internal edges of both hernia? are equally near to the pubis ; it is by looking to the external border of the neck of the tumour that he can render the test available. Scarpaf states that this hernia is returned without being attended by the gurgling sound : this, however, is an observation perfectly new to me, and which I can by no means verify. Lastly, these herniae appear more suddenly and attain a larger size more rapidly: frequently they appear as scrotal ruptures almost from the earliest period. This, however, is still an uncertain criterion, and in- deed with the assistance of all these circum- stances it is always so difficult and frequently so utterly impossible to establish a diagnosis, that no operation should be undertaken under the conviction of the disease being certainly of one form or of the other. This rupture should present to the anatomist the same number of layers of fascia as that by the oblique descent, the fascia transversalis sup- plying the place of that given off from the edges of the internal ring; J but the young surgeon * Cooper. t Scarpa, op. citat. p. 84. J The internal spoul-like fascia. should be cautioned not to expect the same facilities of demonstration in the living subject that he possesses in the dead. In the former, the operator often meets with layer after layer of fascia, numerous beyond his expectation, and to which he can give no name; and it is no un- common circumstance for him to operate on and return a rupture without being able to say of what nature it was—nay, even as to its being inguinal or crural. Crural or femoral hernia takes place at the superior and internal part of the thigh, below the fold of the groin ; the intestine pass- ing out of the abdomen behind Poupart's liga- ment, between it and the transverse ramus of the pubis, through an aperture that has been termed the crural or femoral ring. A know- ledge of the constitution, size, and boundaries of this ring must be of the last importance to the practical surgeon, and accordingly no part of the body has been examined with more minute attention ; yet if by these labours ana- tomy has gained in accuracy of information and very diffuse description, still the student is not much the better for it, inasmuch as almost every anatomist has adopted views peculiar to himself, and thus in the details a degree of con- fusion has been produced that is extremely em- barrassing to the beginner. I shall, therefore, avail myself as little as possible of authorities, and endeavour to describe these parts as they appear upon dissection, commencing from within, which is perhaps the best mode of studying the anatomy of every species of hernia. The distance between the anterior superior spinous process of the ileum and the angle of the crest of the pubis is in the well-formed female about five and a half inches in length, along which space Poupart's ligament is stretched like a bow-string from point to point. The distance from the ligament thus extended, backwards to the edges of the ileum and pubis forming the border of the pelvis, varies accord- ing to the elevations and depressions of these bones; but the entire forms a very considerable space, which is, however, in general so well filled up that unless under peculiar circum- stances this region affords sufficient support and protection to the viscera of the abdomen. On examining the corresponding peritoneal sur- face within, the membrane is found capable of being detruded only at one spot, internal to the view, and about an inch and a half distant from the symphysis pubis. Here, there is a natural aperture varying in size in different subjects, into which the finger may be pushed by a little violence, and a small artificial hernial sac like a thimble be thus produced. On tearing off the peritoneum it is easy to observe the dif- ferent arrangements that serve to support and strengthen this region of the abdomen. From Poupart's ligament three distinct layers of fascia pass off in different directions. The fascia transversalis has been already described as passing upwards on the front of the abdomen, where it is gradually lost. From the inferior and posterior part of the arch another fascia passes, at first downwards, then upwards and