4 ORGAN OF HEARING. 540 ditorius s. ucusticus.—Fr. Nerfaudit if'ou acous- tique.—Germ. Der Gehornerv.—The internal auditory meatus of the temporal bone appears to enrl in a cul-de-sac ; but, examined more closely, the bottom is found divided into two unequal-sized depressions, an upper and a lower, by a crest, which extends backwards from the anterior and outer wall of the meatus. The upper depression, which is the smaller, is subdivided into two, an anterior and a posterior, by a small vertical pillar. The anterior leads into the aqueduct of Fallopius, and gives pas- sage to the facial nerve. The posterior is almost funnel-shaped, and presents two or three pretty large apertures, and several smaller and less distinct ones. These are the mouths of small canals which lead into the vestibule, and their terminating orifices produce that sieve-like ap- pearance in the pyramidal elevation between the hemi-elliptical and hemispherical depres- sions, and which extends towards the ampullary dilatations in the superior horn of the vestibule. The lower and larger depression presents two subdivisions. The anterior and larger corres- ponds to the base of the axis of the cochlea; it presents a spiral groove or tract—tractus spi- ralisJbraminutentus, answering to the turns of the cochlea, and perforated like a sieve by nu- merous apertures, which diminish in size towards the centre, where there is one opening larger than the rest. The posterior subdivision of the lower depiession is a small superficial fossa, perforated by two or three larger, and a great number of smaller apertures, which open into the hemispherical depression of the vestibule, producing the sieve-like spot already mentioned as existing there. Below this superficial fossa there is a pretty large hole, leading into a canal in the posterior wall of the vestibule, which opens by several small orifices, forming the sieve-like spot within the mouth of the ampullary dilatation of the lower extremity of the posterior vertical semicircular canal. The different minute apertures we have de- scribed give passage to the fibrils of the audi- tory nerve. The internal auditory meatus is lined by dura mater. The facial nerve enters the internal auditory meatus along with the auditory nerve. At the bottom of the meatus there is a communication between the two nerves, which was first pointed out by Mr. Sw?n. Separating from the audi- tory nerve, the facial leaves the internal meatus, by entering the aqueduct of Fallopius. From its origin to about where it enters the internal auditory meatus, the auditory nerve presents most distinctly the delicate-walled tubular structure of brain. Within the mea- tus it assumes the ordinary thick-walled cylin- drical tubular structure of nerves; a circum- stance overlooked by Ehrenberg, when he ad- duced, as a peculiarity of the special nerves of sense, that they presented throughout their course the so-called varicose tubular structure. The auditory nerve divides into two branches —an anterior, or cochlear; and a posterior, or vestibular branch,— which externally remain united together as far as the bottom of the meatus. The former is whiter, and has its fila- ments more compactly bound together than the latter. Examined under the microscope, the cylindrical tubules of the cochlear nerve ap- peared to me to be larger than those of the vestibular, and to contain, or at least to give out, a greater quantity of nervous medulla. The anterior branch, or cochlear nerve, ner- vus cochlea, is something like a flat tape rolled on itself longways. It proceeds forwards to that depression at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, already described as corres- ponding to the base of the axis. Here it resolves itself into a number of fine filaments, which enter the apertures in the spiral tract of holes. Traversing the small bony canals leading from those apertures into the substance of the axis, they enter the bony spiral lamina according as their turn comes, by bending nearly at a right angle, and spread out upon it. The first fila- ments given oft' are the largest, the rest gradually diminish in size. The first turn of the spiral lamina is supplied by those which enter the first turn of the spiral tract of holes ; the second turn receives the filaments which traverse the bony canals, into which the fine apertures of the second turn of the spiral tract lead; and the last half turn is supplied by that large bundle of filaments ter- minating the nerve, and which, entering the axis by the large opening in the centre of the spiral tract, emerges at its summit. The vestibular nerve, nervus vestibuli, which presents a small gangliform enlargement, di- vides into three branches. The uppermost, which is the largest, lies in the depression be- hind the entrance to the aqueduct of Fallopius. Its filaments having penetrated the vestibule by the small apertures of the canals already mentioned in the pyramidal elevation, arrange themselves into three fasciculi; of which one is distributed to the common sinus, and the other two to the ampulla; belonging to the superior vertical and to the horizontal semicircular tube. The fibrils of the next branch enter the ves- tibule by the apertures at the bottom of the hemispherical depression, and terminate in the saccule. The third, or lowest branch, which is the smallest, enters that canal described in the pos- terior wall of the vestibule, and which opens by a sieve-like spot within the ampullary dila- tation of the posterior semicircular canal. Its fibrils are distributed to the ampulla of the posterior semicircular tube. Such is the description of the divisions of the auditory nerve as given by most authors, and as it has appeared to me in the examina- tions I have made. Krause and Breschet, how- ever, describe the mode of division ditfeiently. The former says the nerve of the saccule comes off from the cochlear nerve; the latter, that the cochlear nerve (which he calls the posterior fasciculus of the auditory nerve) gives off both the saccular nerve and the filaments to the pos- terior ampulla. I have not at present an oppor- tunity to repeat my examination of the parts,