485 GLAND. * L. c. p. 80, $21, 22. * Phil. Trans. 1833, p. 741. (See the biliary organs of Meloloutha Vulgaris, Jig. 38, vol. i. p. 111.) In the liver of Mammalia and Man, both in the embryo and after birth, it is much more difficult to demonstrate the ultimate tubes with their coecal extremities; indeed the existence of such canals is ra- ther deduced from the ana- logy of the liver in the lower animals than from actual ob- servation. M idler states that the blind free extremities of the biliary ducts are visible on the surface of the liver with the microscope in the embryo of Mammalia; but that owing to their compact arrangement they are less dis- tinct than in birds, so that their internal connexions can- not be perceived.* In a few Mammalia, however, as the squirrel, (sciurusvu/garis,) he observed with the microscope the blind cylindrical extremi- ties of the biliary ducts on the surface of the liver, pre- senting a branching and foliaceous appearance. (Fig. 217.) The exact mode of termination of Fia. 217. Fig. 216. the biliary tubuli was still more distinctly seen in a portion of liver considerably magnified, taken from an embryo of the quail, ('Tetruo coturnix,) about one inch long (Jig. 2X8). From the published Fie. 218. account of Mr. Kiernan's valuable observations on the minute structure of the liver, it does not appear that the actual terminations of the biliary tubes in blind extremities were perceived, although that such is their disposition is rendered very probable from what was seen with the mi- croscope, and especially because it was found that much greater difficulty was experi- enced in injecting these tubes than the bloodvessels, on account, as it was sur- mised, of the bile contained within them having no exit.* Lastly, in tracing the minute texture of these complex glands of the Mam- malia, it is necessary to call the attention of the reader to a circumstance which of all others has been the most fertile source of error, so much so indeed as to have misled the great majority of anatomists. It is this : in many glands small rounded or berry-shaped corpuscles seem to be appended to the commencement of the secreting tubes, so that a deceptive ap- pearance is produced, as if cells or little bags were placed between the terminal bloodvessels and the small excretory ducts. This appearance of cells or even of solid rounded corpuscles is depen- dent on two causes: in some glands the se- creting canals are so coiled up that, as is seen in the human testis, when a section is made in the uninjected state an apparently granular tex- ture is presented, (Jig. 219;) but a second influential circumstance is that in many in- stances each of the secreting tubes swells out at its ccecal end into a slightly enlarged cul- de-sac (pedunculated tubes), so that when they are viewed in an aggregate form, the semblance of roundish-shaped granules is seen, (fig. 220.) As these and all other varieties which are presented in the glandular formation are