637 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HEART, eases of the Heart,* an abstract of several cases in which pus was found in the substance of the heart. Those quoted from Corvisart, Raikem, and Simonet, and probably that from Dr. Craves,f may be regarded as examples of puru- lent formation following carditis, general or partial. So likewise is Laennec's case, in which, however, the carditis was consequent upon pericarditis. There is no anatomical cha- racter which will enable us to distinguish whe- ther a simple purulent deposit, surrounded by natural muscular texture, be inflammatory or not, for there is no reason why the heart should be exempt from that which we know often occurs in other muscles, namely, non-inflam- matory deposits. Ulceration.—As true carditis seems to be generally admitted to be rare, so we may con- clude that ulceration is equally so. It is by the ulcerative process that some of the perfora- tions or ruptures of the parietes of the heart take place; it is probable, however, that the great majority of the ulcerations we meet with commence from the surface, and result from membranous inflammation rather than from that of the muscular substance; the ulcer commences on the surfaces, either in or imme- diately subjacent to the internal or external membrane; and as it burrows deeply, it may perforate the muscular wall, and so destroy the membrane on the side opposite to that on which the ulceration had commenced. Sometimes an ulceration of this kind gives rise to aneurismal tumours or sacs, very variable in size, projecting from that part of the cavity which corresponds to the artery. It seems evident that these tumours are produced by the pressure of the contained blood distending the thinned and yielding wall of the heart. We shall return to this subject further on in treating of aneurisms of the heart. Induration.—This condition of the muscular structure of the heart seems most probably to be a result of inflammation, especially of the chronic kind. It is generally found in small circumscribed portions ; it may occur in any part of the heart, and may even co-exist with softening : the hardened portion has become particularly firm, is cut with difficulty, and when struck with the scalpel sounds, as Laennec says, like a leather dice-box. It is harder, denser, less elastic, and as regards colour is paler than the hypertrophied muscular tissue. Cartilaginous and osseous transformations.— Induration of the subserous cellular tissue of the heart is in general the precursor of many of these transformations. This indurated portion increasing in thickness gradually assumes the appearance of cartilage—in this cartilage the calcareous particles are deposited. I have not been able to ascertain whether this so-called ossification exhibits, on examination by the mi- croscope, the lamellar arrangement of true bone, as osseous transformations of certain permanent cartilages do, those of the thyroid cartilage for example. These calcareous or osseous patches * Diet, of Medicine, part iv. p. 191. t Lond. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. vii. or tumours compress the subjacent muscular tissue, and produce atrophy of them, and ac- cording to Andral, sometimes are connected by prolongations of the same material with other calcareous deposits formed round the orifices. Many pathologists believe that these transfor- mations are the result of inflammation. I sup- pose there can be no doubt that they follow an increased afflux of blood, and so they may be considered, although not an immediate, at least a remote effect of inflammation, or rather of the altered nutrition and secretion to which inflam- mation gave rise. In a case recorded by my friend Mr. Robert Smith, of Dublin, the apex of the left ventricle was converted into a dense, white, firm, car- tilaginous structure, the division of which with a scissors required the employment of con- siderable force ; the alteration of structure had extended to some of the carneaj columnar.* Tubercles.—These productions are very rarely if ever met with in the heart. No re- liance can be placed on most of the instances recorded, in consequence of the imperfect and unsatisfactory descriptions accompanying them; what appears to one person to be tubercular may present a totally different aspect to another. Laennec says vaguely, " only three or four times have I met with tubercles in the muscular substance of the heart." And Andral states, that they are never met with in the heart, except when they likewise occur in other muscles. Otto says, "although I have dis- sected a great number of scrofulous men and animals, I have never found a tubercle on the heart, and therefore consider them very rare." Dr. Elliotsonf mentions a case in which there were scrofulous deposits in the walls of the left ventricle, surrounded by white and almost cartilaginous induration. In a case which came under my own observation, in a woman be- tween 50 and 60 years of age, there were several white tumours in the parietes of the right ventricle, each about a quarter of an inch in diameter, of uniform consistence throughout, nor showing any disposition to softening in the centre. Scirrhus.—Equally unsatisfactory are the reports of anatomists respecting this alteration. Rullierand Billard relate cases in which scirrhus had developed itself on the heart. Rullier'sJ case was an instance of degeneration of the whole substance of the heart into a scirrhous mass, which formed irregular knobs on the ex- ternal and internal surfaces of the heart. Bil- lard found three scirrhous tumours embedded in the heart of an infant only three days old.§ Medullary fungus, or encephuloid tumours.— Of these, several instances are quoted by Andral from others, and he describes two whicli he saw himself.|| In the first of Andral's cases the whole of the walls of the right auricle and ventricle were converted into a hard, dirty white substance, traversed by a number of * Dub. Journal, vol. ix. p. 418. t Lumleyan Lectures, p. 32. X Bull, de la Faculte, 1813. S Malad. des Enfans. (I Loc. cit. vol. ii. p. 346.