816 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. elongated. The psoas magnus and iliacus in- ternus are relaxed, as are also tlie other muscles inserted into the trochanter minor."* From the foregoing opinions Mr. Todd dis- sents in the following words :—" To admit of the head of the femur being ' forced towards the superior and external part of the aceta- balum,' and of its ascending ' on the external face of the os ilium,' it will be obvious to those who carefully examine the mechanism of the articulation, that the thigh must be ex- tended on the trunk, and the dislocating force applied externally and inferiorly, so as to pro- duce what may be termed an excess of ad- duction. To the limb assuming such positions, which appear to me to be quite essential to- wards the production of this dislocation in the manner described by Bayer, some considerable obstacles exist. In the first place, I believe it seldom happens that a person who falls from a height will reach the ground with the thigh extended on the trunk; in the descent the superior power of the flexor muscles will pre- dominate, and at the moment of the appli- cation of force to the limb it will be more or less in a bent position. It is scarcely neces- sary to observe that this circumstance must materially influence the direction in which the head of the bone will be protruded from the articulating cavity. " Secondly, should the thigh and leg be com- pletely extended at the time that the force is applied, it is probable that the other limb will be extended also, and will thus prevent a move- ment of the stricken limb inwards beyond a certain point; or, in other words, the opposite limb will prevent that extent of adduction inferiorly which is necessary to remove the head of the femur from the acetabulum, and to admit of its being forced upon the anterior convex surface of the dorsum ilii. But whether the opposite limb be extended or not, it must oppose a certain limit to adduction, if that term can be applied with propriety to a lateral movement of the lower extremity, by ■which it is carried beyond the middle line of the body. " Sir Astley Cooper attributes this direction of the limb to the circumstance of the injury being inflicted when the knee and foot are actually turned inwards; however, it appears to me that muscular action is also in favour of the limb assuming this position. " If it be admitted that the thigh is generally in a state of demiflexion when the force causing this dislocation is applied, it must also be ad- mitted that in this state the pyriformis, ob- turatores, and gemini have but little effect as rotators, the power of these muscles as such being greater or less, according as the junction of their fibres with the femur approaches or deviates from a right angle; and that the power of the anterior portion of the glutaeus medius and of the tensor fasciae lata?, as rotators inwards, is increased in this position, the angle which their fibres form with the thigh-bone being augmented ; thus the last- * Lectures of Boyer, p. 156. mentioned muscles will appear to possess much influence in determining the inverted po- sition of the limb, as they must draw forwards the trochanter major and external side of the thigh, at the moment in which the head of the bone escapes from the acetabulum. " The inclination of the thigh forwards and inwards which constitutes so remarkable a fea- ture of this dislocation, may be attributed partly to the tension of the psoas magnus, the iliacus internus, and the pectinalis, and also to the peculiar form of the surface of the pelvis, to which the upper part of the femur is applied ; but certainly not as Mr. Samuel Cooper has asserted, to the tense state of the triceps and gracilis, for these muscles are re- laxed." Anatomical characters of the taxation (if the head of the thigh-bone on the dorsum ilii.—The appearances which have been noticed in the anatomical examination of the hip-joints of individuals who, having had a luxation of this articulation, have died very soon afterwards of other severe injuries received at the same time, may be collected from the study of some facts of this nature already published. Of these none gives us a better idea of the recent effects of a dislocation upwards and backwards- on the dorsum ilii than the case related by the late Mr. Todd, in the third volume of the Dub- lin Hospital Reports, which is as follows :— Case.—In the summer of 1818, a robust man, in attempting to escape from his bed- room window in the second floor of a lofty house, fell into a flagged area, by which acci- dent his cranium was fractured, and his left thigh dislocated upwards and backwards. The dislocation was reduced without diffi- culty ; however, an extensive extravasation of blood having taken place on the brain, the patient lingered in a comatose state for about twenty-four hours, and then died. On the day after dissection was performed, and the following appearances were observed in the in- jured joint and the parts contiguous to it. On raising the glutaeus maximus, a large cavity filled with coagulated blood was found between that muscle and the posterior part of the glutaeus medius. This was the situation which had been occupied by the dislocated extremity of the femur. The gluteus medius and minimus were uninjured. The pyriformis, gemini, obturatores, and quadratus were com- pletely torn across. Some fibres of the pec- tinalis were also torn. The iliacus, psoas, and adductors were uninjured. The orbicular liga- ment was entire at the superior and anterior part only, and it was irregularly lacerated throughout the remainder of its extent. The inter-articular ligament was torn out of the de- pression on the head of the femur, its attach- ment to the acetabulum remaining perfect. The bones had not sustained any injury. Cruveilhier, in the 28th and 29th livraisons of his valuable work on Pathological Anatomy, has given two cases of what he considers to be old luxations of the head of the femur up- wards and outwards on the dorsum ilii, which had been left unreduced ; the history of these