985 1NSECTA. between the fibres of the muscular coat of the alimentary canal, and ramify extensively be- tween the mucous coat and a structure which we have described* as the adipose coat, which lies between the mucous and muscular, as is well seen in the colon and coecum of the puss-moth, Ceri/ra vinula, in the perfect state. It is in this layer that the ramifications of tracheae anastomose very freely, but do not enter the mucous or internal coat. Besides these parts all the secretory and generative organs are sup- plied with anastomosing branches in abun- dance, and trachea; are extended even to the very last joints of the tarsi in the limbs. The only parts into which we have not observed tracheae penetrate are the adipose vesicles, upon which we have not often observed rami- fications, although branches of tracheae are dis- tributed very extensively among them. In the larva state the tracheae are always smaller than in the perfect, compared with the size of the individual, and they are smallest in those apodal larvae of Hymenoptera which reside long in closed cells, as the Anthophura return, in which insect the communications of the tracheae across the body are very distinct, as was shewn long ago by Swammerdam in the larva of the hive-bee. The structure of the tracheae has been des- cribed by Swammerdam, Sprengel, and others. Sprengel has described the structure as con- sisting of an external serous and an internal mucous membrane; inclosing between them a spirally convoluted fibre (fig.435, a), which is elastic, and gives to the tracheae the appearance exhibited by the tracheae in other animals. The external or serous membrane (b) very loosely surrounds the spiral fibre («). The mucous or internal lining, as we formerly re- marked, and as noticed by Swammerdam, De Geer, Lyonet, and Bonnet, is continuous with, and is thrown off'at the change with the external covering of the larva, and certainly is a distinct membrane, renewed at those periods, although Sprengel believes that it is only a means of connexion between the coils of the spiral fibre, and not a distinct structure. The vesicles, or dilated tracheae, exist in the greatest abundance in volant insects, although they also exist in a much less developed form in the saltatorial. These vesicles exhibit an appearance which was formerly noticed by Swammerdam in Ori/ctes nasicornis, and sub- sequently by Sprengel in other insects. It con- sists of an amazing number of punctured spots, discoverable only under a good microscope, but which, when attentively examined, exhibit somewhat the appearance of perforations. The precise nature of these spots is not well under- stood. Burmeister conceives that they are oc- casioned by the rupture of the spiral fibre during development, and that the spots are the spaces between the broken fibres. But Marcel de Serres and Straus Durckheim deny the existence of spiral fibre in the vesicles, while Suckow and Burmeister contend that it cer- tainly does exist, and we also are of this » Phil. Tians. 1836. opinion. Indeed, when it is remembered that the vesicles exist only in the perfect insect, and are only dilated tracheae, and that the existence of spiral fibre in the tracheae is undoubted, surely its existence can scarcely be questioned in the vesicles, although, probably, it is in an almost atrophied condition. Now the fact that the spots are not observed on the vesicles until the insect has entered the perfect state, was, perhaps, one of the circumstances that led Burmeister to his opinion respecting them ; but that they are not caused by ruptured spiral fibre is proved by the existence of these spots in some of the tracheae that communicate direct- ly with the vesicles, and have not been dilated, and in which the spiral fibre is unbroken. It is also shewn by the circumstance of their not being in a regular series, over the course of the fibres, but distributed thickly and irregularly over the surface of the vesicles, and by their existing in the space between two parallel fibres in the tracheae, and even in the substance of the fibre, as we have seen them in the vesicles of the male of Bombus terrestris. Be- sides this, they are sometimes seen to terminate in an abrupt and remarkable manner in the dilatations of the larger tracheae in the same insect. The results of our own observations lead us to conclude that these spots are not ruptures of the spiral fibre, but are partial per- forations of the vesicles,—that they do not pass through the internal or lining coat, and probably are little cells in the coats of the vesi- cles, through which the circulatory fluid can be freely submitted to the action of the air in the vesicles, as in the minute terminal cells in the lungs of vertebrata. The use of the vesicles, as above remarked, and as formerly suggested by Hunter, appears to be to enable the insect to alter its specific gravity at pleasure, by enlarging its bulk, and thus rendering it better able to support itself on the wing with little muscular effort. That this is the use of the sacs may be inferred from their non-existence in the larva state, or in in- sects that constantly reside on the ground, more particularly in creeping insects ; and it seems further confirmed by the fact that, among volant insects, those have the largest and greatest number of vesicles which sustain the longest and most powerful flight. Thus the vesicles are found most developed in the Hymenoptera, Lepidoptera, Diptera, ;ind some Coleoptera and Hemiptera, in all which, in the larva state, there is not the slightest trace of them. A still further proof that they are for lightening the body is found in Lucanus cervus. In the male of this insect the large and heavy man- dibles and head, but more especially the man- dibles, are not filled with solid muscle, as in the Hydrous and others in which these parts are more in proportion to the size of other parts of the body, but with an immense number of vesicles, which in the mandibles are developed in the greatest abundance in rows from long tracheae, that are extended from one end of the organ to the other, so that the interior is almost entirely filled with vesi- cles. By this beautiful provision these pro-