658 ANIMAL HEAT. ble to cooling in the ratio of the general relax- ation of the muscles, and of the degree in which each of them in particular is in a state of qui- escence. This is what happens in sleep, of which we shall speak by-and-bye. In the rise of temperature observed along with muscular contraction, we have in the first place only considered the action of the blood; but neither contraction of the muscles nor the afflux of a larger quantity of blood could take place without the nervous influence; for it is the will which determines the muscular contrac- tion, and the will only acts through the me- dium of the nerves which are distributed to the muscles. From this consideration it follows equally as from general relations pre- viously exposed, that whatever lessens the nervous influence will likewise tend to reduce the temperature. Here we are, then, reverting to the two general conditions which we had already found to be the most influential in ca- lorification, namely, the arterial blood and the nervous system. This examination of the relative tempera- tures of the different parts of the body has led us, by the immediate comparison of the super- ficial and deeper layers, to the consideration of the Influence of external temperature.—An in- ert or inanimate body of higher temperature than the surrounding medium will of neces- sity cool faster at its surface than in its internal parts. A living body, likewise, having within itself a permanent source of heat, which we shall suppose equally distributed through it, will lose more caloric from its surface than from its interior. This loss will become apparent by the cooling of the surface, so long as the source of heat remains everywhere equal. If, on the contrary, it be unequally distributed, if it be greater towards the surface, so as to compensate the greater loss which takes place there, the surface will have the same temperature as the interior. Without such a supposition it were necessary that the surface of the body should be lower in tem- perature than the interior. This, indeed, is the actual state of the case. The external parts of living bodies are colder than the internal parts, because on the one hand the focus of heat is less, by reason of the nature of the component tissues, and on the other because the loss of heat there is greater. When the external tem- perature falls, then the outer layers will tend to sink in temperature also, and will, in fact, sink so long as the internal source of heat remains the same. This partial refrigeration will be propagated internally, and the general tem- perature will be lessened unless the economy provides against such an occurrence by an in- crease of activity in its calorific powers. The same reasoning is applicable to move- ments of the temperature of bodies under the influence of that of the air. Heat will be propagated from without inwards, and will raise the general temperature of the body, un- less it lessens in the same proportion as it re- ceives external temperature, that which it pro- duces of itself. The consideration of the changes in the in- tensity of the internal focus, in other words, in the faculty of producing heat, and of the con- ditions which determine these, is the most im- portant point of all in the study of animal heat, on account of the multitude of practical applications which result from it. It is obvious from what has already been said that there is an essential difference between inert or inanimate and animate bodies subjected to the influence of external temperature. The temperature of the former depends solely on the general laws which regulate the propaga- tion of heat, whilst the temperature of the others is subjected to the influence of another element, namely, the heat which they them- selves produce. Did this element continue fixed and invariable, it would be possible to determine, by the application of the known data of physics, what must be the temperature of a living body under the influence of a given external temperature. But if this element varies, and the laws according to which it varies are unknown, it becomes impossible to predict in what manner the temperature of an animal will be affected by that of the medium in which it lives. It is only very lately, therefore, that the temperature of man and warm-blooded animals, with the exception of those that hy- bernate, has been believed to continue unaf- fected in the midst of extensive variations in the temperature of the surrounding atmosphere. Variations in the temperature of animal bodies in a state of health, independently of external temperature.—Duly to appreciate the inquiries that have been instituted in this direc- tion, the first question to be asked is, whether or not the temperature of the body presents variations, although external conditions continue the same, or nearly the same ? The answer here must be in the affirmative : the body varies in temperature at different times, exter- nal circumstances as to temperature continuing nearly the same. This is apparent in the ob- servations of Dr. John Davy instituted with another view, but quite available here. We perceive that the individual designated No. 1, having a temperature of 37° 8 (100° F.), when the air was at 26°, 4 (79° F.), had a tempera- ture of only 37°, 5 (99°, 75 F.) when the air was at 26°, 7 (80° F.), that is to say, the same person showed a third of a degree c. less of temperature, when the air, instead of becoming colder, had actually become warmer in the same proportion. The temperature of No. 3 was 37°, 2 (99° F.), when the air marked 25°, 5 (78° F.), and on another occasion it was only 36°, 9 (98° F.), when the air was 26° (79° F.) ; in other words, the temperature of the body, instead of rising, had actually fallen by 0°, 7 cent., when that of the external air had risen 0°, 9 cent. Influence of the natural temperature of the air on that of the body.—It must be obvious from the facts of the last paragraph that the influence of external temperature cannot be appreciated without having recourse to means of observation calculated to make variations dependent on foreign causes to disappear.