908 INSECTA. Fig. 382. Head of Pentatoma rufipes (Savigny). most anterior portion of the front of the head, where it joins with a second triangular suture which passes outwards on each side anterior to the insertion of the antenna, and thus divides the clypeus anterior from the posterior. The proper triangular suture between the epicranium and clypeus passes backwards from behind the insertion of the antennas along the sides of the head as far as the margin of the cornea, thus clearly indicating the extent of the epicranial region, as in Coleoptera. The clypeus anterior is distinctly marked at the front of the head (d) as a narrow elongated plate, a little widened at its lower portion, where it is articulated with the labrum (e), which is narrow, lengthened, and ends in a point, and covers the front of the proboscis (A;), which is formed of four joints or articulations, and is believed by Savigny to represent the true labrum. This part, which, in a state of rest, is concealed beneath the under surface of the head and prothorax, forms a cylindrical tube throughout nearly its whole length, from its apex to its base, where it is covered by the labrum. It incloses four dis- tinct sets, which have been shewn by Savigny to be the proper mandibles and maxillae. We are satisfied of the correctness of this opinion from our own examination of these parts, the insertion of the muscles belonging to them being in the basilar portion of the head, as in all the preceding orders. But it is in Reduvius that the parts of the head are most distinctly marked. The occipital portion is so much elongated backwards as to form a very distinct neck, narrower considerably than the other parts of the head, and the corneas are large and protuberant and stand out from its broadest part, while the ocelli, two in number, are also exceedingly large and are placed on short pedicles almost on the constricted neck-like part of the epicranium, far behind the cornea, and with their axis directed posteriorly. Be- tween this portion of the head and that which contains the true corneae is a deep transverse impression, which seems to indicate that the corneas and ocelli are derived from distinct seg- ments. But one of the most marked charac- teristics of the epicranium in this insect is the existence of a triangular elevation or ridge, which commences in the usual situation of the suture in the middle line between the corneas, and extending outwards marks the course of the antennae. The posterior margin of this ridge is in the usual direction of the triangular suture, posterior to the insertion of the antennae. Anterior to this is a lozenge-shaped plate, the clypeus posterior, which is elevated along its middle line, and which is continuous with a similar elevation on the clypeus anterior. The labrum is short, and terminates" in a triangular process, that covers the base of the proboscis as in the preceding species. We have thus five clearly indicated segments in the head of a perfect insect,—the occipito-basilar segment bearing the ocelli, the proper epicranial with the corneas and antennae, the two clypeal, and the labial. The proboscis consists, as in Coreus, of four distinct articulations, which form the labium, and correspond to the seg- ments of the upper surface of the head, but which are extended forwards and form a sheath for the setiform mandibles and maxillae. In the Hydrometrida, which connect the terrestrial with the aquatic Hemiptera, the head is elon- gated forwards, and the corneas, which are large and kidney-shaped, are very protuberant. In Gerris pallidum the epicranial region is short, but the suture is still very distinct. It divides as usual at a point opposite to the middle of the corneas, and passes outwards to their ante- rior margin. The clypeus posterior is broad and lengthened, and seems to have become united with the anterior, and the antennas are moved forwards to the base of the proboscis. The Nepida have a form of head similar to that of the Hydrometridas, but the epicranial region (Jig. 383, d) is of greater extent. In Fig. 383. Upper and under surface of the head of Nepa cinerea ( Savigny.) a, occiput; b, epicranium; c, cornea; d, cly- peus posterior ; e, labrum ;f, mandibles ; g, maxil- lae ; i, labium; *, lingua. the figure which we have copied from Savigny the parts of the head are not distinguished, but they are distinct in the insect. The epicra- nial suture, the proper guide to a correct deter- mination of the primary parts of the head in every species, bounds the corneas anteriorly and