383 GASTEROPODA. calcareous varnish, which being laid over the exterior of the old shell completely conceals the original markings ; these, however, may be again exposed on removing with a file the outer crust: a line, which is generally very distinctly seen running longitudinally along the back of the shell, indicates the spot where the edges of the two alae of the mantle met during the com- pletion of this singular process. Such shells are therefore remarkable from the circumstance of having their thickness increased by additions to the outer as well as to the internal surface. In terrestrial shells it is only when they have arrived at their full growth that a rim or margin is formed around the aperture, which serves to strengthen the whole fabric; but in marine shells, which attain to much larger dimensions, the growth is effected at distinct periods, each of which is indicated by a well-defined margin, and these ridges remaining permanent, the suc- cessive stages of increase may be readily seen. At each suspension of development, it is not unusual to find spines or fringes, sometimes differently coloured from the rest of the shell, and not unfrequently of considerable length. In Jig. 180, which represents the shell of Mure.v Fig. 180. cornutus, the nature and arrangement of such spines is well exemplified. They are all formed by the margin of the mantle which shoots out into long fringes, encrusting themselves with a shelly covering ; each spine therefore is at first hollow, and if in many species they are found solid, it is because the original cavity has been gradually filled up by the deposition of earthy matter within it. The syphon with which many Conchiferous Gasteropoda are provided is pro- duced in precisely the same manner, and its identity in form with the other spines covering the surface of the shell is in the annexed figure sufficiently obvious. In many species, as in the beautiful Turbo scalaris, (fig. 181,) the epocha of growth are only indicated by ridges surrounding the shell at regular intervals, each of which originally terminated a fresh augmen- tation of its size. It is difficult to imagine by what influence these creatures are induced to enlarge their habitations at such regular inter- vals, terminating each operation by a similar margin ; some authors imagine that each time the creature emerges from its abode a fresh addition is made ; others that it is dependent upon the temperature or state of the seasons, but without sufficient grounds for either of these assertions ; it seems more probable therefore that the growth of the body gradually rendering the former dimensions of the shell incommo- dious from time to Fig. 181. time renders these pe- ja^ riodical enlargements necessary. Although shells are evidently inorga- nic and extra-vascu- lar structures, it is now universally con- ceded that their in- habitants have the power of removing portions which may obstruct their growth, or needlessly infringe upon the limits of their abode. In the Murices we have in- disputable evidence of this fact in the removal of such spines as would interfere with the revolutions of the shell around the columella, and in Conus and similar genera a like faculty enables the animals to thin the walls which bound the inner whirls when their original thickness is rendered un- necessary by the accession of new turns. Such a solvent power indeed is not only exer- cised upon their own habitations, but many Gasteropods are able gradually to bore holes in other shells, or perforate the rocks upon which they reside to a considerable depth. The mode in which this is effected is, however, still a mystery ; some authors ascribe it to a power of absorbing their shells, an expression the vagueness of which is sufficiently evident; others ascribe it to some acid secretion at the disposal of the animal; yet although this ex- planation is certainly plausible, when we reflect that the very structure which secretes this sup- posed acid is itself the matrix of such abundant alkaline products, it is not easy to imagine how the same structure can at the same time furnish such opposite materials. As we should expect from the mode of its growth, the shell throughout all the Conchi- ferous class is composed of earthy matter, cemented together by an animal substance easily separable by the action of acids. In the porcellaneous shells the animal matter exists in much less quantity than in those of a fibrous texture; in the former, indeed, Mr. Hatcbett found that when the carbonate of lime, of which the earthy portion is almost entirely formed, is dissolved even by very feeble acids, little or no vestige of any membranous struc- ture could be perceived, nor indeed could any be detected, but by the small portion of animal coal which was formed when these shells had been exposed for a short time to a low red heat; in others however, as the Patellae, a sub- stance was left untouched by the acids which had the appearance of a yellowish transparent jelly, by means of which the earthy matter had been, as it were, cemented together. On examining minutely the mechanical ai- rangement of the layers of which these shells are composed, it is found to vary in different kinds, and from this circumstance the fossil