700 HERMAPHRODITISM. Europe in regard to the true sex of this indivi- dual. Even the different parts of his body were at one time referred to the male type, and at another time, and by other persons, to the fe- male. The pelvis was the only part that was generally considered as decidedly female, yet the inspection of the body after death by Pro- fessor Mayer shewed that even in this respect all were in error. Of the female sexual organs there existed an uterus, vagina, two Fallopian tubes, and an ovary ; and of the male, a testicle, and prostate gland and penis. The uterus was placed in its normal situation between the urinary bladder and rectum, but with its fundus directed in some degree to the left. The organ was extremely narrow, and two and a half inches in length. The cavity of its cervix presented on its inner surface some slight folds, but would scarcely admit a quill; the cavity of its fundus was nearly half an inch across. The small canals of two Fallopian tubes opened into the fundus uteri. Their abdominal extremities were shut, but the corpora fimbriata were present. Near the extremity of the right Fallopian tube, which was four inches and four lines in length, a small flattened almond-shaped body was placed, which on examination proved to be distinctly a testi- cle. It was completely enveloped in perito- naeum, and received a cord composed of muscu- lar fibres, and of a spermatic vein and artery. Its internal structure was yellow and filamen- tous, like that of the testicle, and its seminiferous tubes could be easily separated. The left Fallo- pian tube was an inch shorter than the right; and a little outside and behind its abdominal extremity another small flattened body was found inclosed in the peritonaeum. It resembled an ovary rather than a testicle. Its tissue was composed of small granules conglomerated together. The penis was two inches and nine lines in length, and was for the greater part concealed underneath the mons veneris. During life it was capable of erection, and was then elongated to more than three inches. The pre- puce covered only half the glans. There was not any corpus spongiosum. A fossa or groove, representing an urethral canal divided inferiorly, ran along the under surface of the penis. The two folds of skin forming the sides of the groove separated from each other posteriorly, and might be compared to nymphs. Towards the root of the penis, by uniting inferiorly with a puckering of the skin of the labia majora or divided halves of the scrotum, they formed a circular orifice not larger than a quill, having some bodies, supposed to be vestiges of the ca- runculffi myrtiformes, at its lower edge, and lead- ing to a short vestibule, or common canal, into which the urethra, surrounded by a firm but small prostate, entered from above, and the va- gina, encircled at its entrance by a vascular ring of varicose veins, opened from below. The vagina was two inches and eight lines in length, and only ten lines at its greatest breadth. Its inner surface was somewhat wrinkled an- teriorly, but smooth behind. It terminated above in a kind of spongy isthmus representing the blind orifice of the uterus, and from four to six lines in length. The diameters and form of the pelvis were, on dissection, found to be most evidently masculine. The general character of Doerge was a mix- ture of the male and female type. When be- tween twenty and thirty, he had been examined by different medical men inGermany, France, and England, and, as we have already mentioned, the most contradictory opinions were offered upon his real sex. The breasts were not much developed, and there was no distinct mammary glandular structure. His stature was small (five feet). As he had advanced in age, his voice had become more firm and grave, and a slight trace of beard had ap- peared ; but his head and face presented the aspect of that of an old woman. His neck was short, and the thyroid cartilage did not project much : his chest was fat and full. During the last few years of his life he was subject to epistaxis and haemorrhoids, but did not present any trace of sanguineous discharge from the genital organs,—a phenomenon which was alleged to have manifested itself three limes during his twentieth year. The right hemispheres of the cerebrum and cerebellum, particularly that of the latter, were smaller and less developed than the left, and the left side of the occiput was externally more prominent than the right. He is stated by Professor Mayer to have shewn a certain predi- lection for females, without, however, feeling any sexual desire. 2. Testicle on the left, and ovary on the right side.—An instance of malformation of the reproductive organs minutely described by Maret,* and which is in all its more essential anatomical points an example of lateral herma- phroditism, may be included under this head. a. The subject of the case (Hubert Jean Pierre) died in the hospital at Dijon in 1767, at the age of seventeen. On the left side a perfect testicle was discovered with its usual spermatic vessels, vas deferens, and vesicula seminalis, all occupying the natural situation in which they are placed in the male adult. The vesicula seminalis contained a fluid of the colour and consistence of semen. On the right side an oblong cystic tumour was found lying in the iliac fossa, and stretching outwards into the inguinal region. On opening it a quantity of reddish limpid fluid escaped, and then the solid contents of the tumour were seen to consist of a somewhat flattened body, that gave off from the upper part from its right side a short Fallopian tube; and at the fimbriated extremity of this tube an ovary of the natural size, consistence, and figure, was situated. The roundish shaped body to which the tube was attached was about an inch and a half in its greatest, and an inch in its smallest diameter. It contained in its centre a small cavity continuous with that of the tube,—a circumstance, which, along with the structure of its walls, left little doubt that the body itself was an imperfectly formed uterus. No other opening except that of the tube could be traced into its cavity. Its external surface * Mem. de 1' Acad, de Dijon, t. ii. p. 157.