FACE. 213 which connect its different parts to each other and to the cranium. The lightness of the face depends upon the thinness of some of its bones, and the large cavities which it com- prises. The two upper maxillary bones form by their alveolar border and palatine arch a strong platform, from which ascend five osseous pillars; one median, formed by the vomer and the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid; two at the sides of the nose, formed by the nasal process of the superior maxilla; and at the lateral parts of the face two others, formed by the malar processes of the upper jaw and the malar bones. All these pillars connect the upper jaw with the bones of the cranium, and contribute by their form, strength, or extent of articulation to resist or diffuse the concussion of violent blows applied to the face. The strength of the lower jaw depends upon its arched form and upon its mobility, but, from its exposed situation, it is notwithstand- ing frequently broken. Development of the face.—The development of the face consists not merely in its general increase, but in the relative proportion of its several parts at different periods of life. As the face contains the organs of sight, smell, and taste, together with those of mastication, we shall not expect to find it much deve- loped in the foetus and infant while these parts are scarcely called into action; accord- ingly, we observe the vertical diameter of the face (strictly so called) to be very short, which is owing to the slight elevation of the ethmoid, the lachrymal, the upper and the lower maxil- lary bones, consequent on the imperfect deve- lopment of the nasal cavities, the maxillary sinuses, and the teeth; see Jig. 131. The Fig. 131. orbits, indeed, are remarkably large, but this depends upon the great development of the cranium and the breadth of the orbitar plates of the frontal bones, for in their vertical dia- meters the orbits are not remarkable at this period of life. The transverse diameter of the face in the fetus is considerable across the orbits, but below these it is narrower in proportion than in the adult. The other chief peculiarities of the fetal face are, the small size of the nasal cavi- ties, the absence of the canine fossa?, depend- ing partly on the small vertical diameter of the upper jaw, and partly upon the teeth being still lodged withm it; the prominence and shortness of the alveolar borders of both jaws, the vertical direction of the symphysis menti, which even inclines from above downwards and a little backwards; the remarkable con- vexity of the maxillary tuberosities, owing to the teeth being lodged within them ; and the great obliquity from above downwards and forwards of the posterior apertures of the nose, arising from the smallness of the maxillary sinuses; the small antero-posterior diameter of the palatine arch, which depends upon the same cause; and, finally, the oblique direction of the rami of the lower jaw: see Jig. 377, vol. i. p. 742. In the adult, as the ethmoid and turbinated bones together with the maxillary sinuses become developed, the nasal cavities enlarge, especially in their vertical diameter; above, they communicate with the frontal sinuses, which are now fully formed and projecting; the jaws have become deeper from the protru- Fig. 132. sion of the teeth, which cause a considerable addition to the vertical diameter of the face; below, the palatine arch has extended back- wards with the development of the maxillary sinuses, and the posterior apertures of the nose have become in consequence nearly vertical: the rami of the lower jaw form also nearly a right angle with its body. In old age the vertical diameter of the face decreases in consequence of the loss of the teeth and the contraction of the alveolar borders of the jaws, which touch each other when the mouth is closed; the rami of the jaw resume the oblique direction of childhood, (Jig. 133;) Fig. 133.