916 INSECTA. wings of the segment. This connexion is the great characteristic of the scutum in all insects. The next piece, the scutellum, (4 c,) is a much broader plate, and is extended across the whole surface of the meta-notum. Like the corre- sponding piece of the meso-notum, it bears on the middle line an excavated shield-shaped plate, and is connected at its external margin with the borders of the wings. The last piece, the post-scutellum, (4 d,) which, although nar- row like the prsescutum, is a strong horny plate that extends on each side, and like the scutel- lum, is connected with the wings. Its posterior margin is bent down to assist in forming the division between the thorax and abdomen, and is connected with the remains of the atrophied fifth segment. The meta-stemum (A) is fre- quently the most developed portion of the meta-thorax, particularly in those insects which, as Audouin has observed, are especially walkers. In Dyticus, the middle piece, the proper sternum (4 g), is a smooth expanded plate, which is produced at its anterior part into a spine, that articulates with the emarginated extremity of the crest of the meso-stemum. On each side of the spine it is developed into a broad, smooth, triangular plate, to the anterior border of which is articulated the episternum, (4 /',) also of a triangular form. This piece oc- cupies the anterior lateral region of the meta- sternum, and the parapteron, (4 e,) which is situated immediately beneath the insertion of the wing, is articulated with its superior border. The epimeron (4 It) of this segment is exceed- ingly small, and appears at first to be removed from its proper situation, being carried upwards to the side of the body by the enormously ex- panded coxa (/). But although removed from its usual situation, and reduced in size, it still retains its characteristic distinction, that of arti- culating with the coxa, and also with the tro- chuntin (?), (/c,) which, although minute, is in connexion both with the coxa and epimeron. The mcta-j'urca, or ento-thorax of this segment, (4 s,) is an exceedingly large and important piece, shaped like the letter Y. It is attached at its posterior extremity to a thin vertical plate, which is situated between the united coxte of the legs of this segment, and it is also arti- culated with the posterior part of the internal surface of the meta-sternum. From this at- tachment it is extended upwards and forwards into the middle of the meta-thorax, where it is expanded on each side into two broad curved plates, to which the muscles of the posterior legs are attached. In the middle line it is grooved, and at its'anterior part forms a par- tially covered canal, along which the nervous cord is transmitted in its course to the abdo- men. Besides the parts now described, there are also two curved plates reflected inwards from the posterior margin of the meta-sternum, where it is articulated with the coxae, and also one central vertical one, which arises in the me- dian line from the interior surface of the ster- num, and which appears to be the proper inte- rior sternal ridge. Each of the posterior coxa; is also furnished with a broad plate, which is situated within the meta-thorax, on each side of attachment of the post-furca. These parts rd attachments for the muscles of the legs. Fig. 337. Skeleton of Hydrous piceus. A, pectoral surface ; B, dorsal surface •, 2, pro- nation ; 2 a, prosternum ; 2 /, episternum ; meso-