MUSCLES OF THE HAND. 521 3. Flexor brevis minimi digiti ( unci-plialan- gien, Cruveilh.)—This muscle is external to the Jast; it arises from a small portion of the annu- lar ligament and from the anterior part of the unciform process ; it runs downwards and in- wards to join the last described muscle, with which it is inserted. Relations.—At its origin it is separated from the abductor by the ulnar vessels and nerve, but it soon becomes confounded with it. Chaussier described them both as one muscle. It is often wanting. In concert with the last, it abducts and slightly flexes the little finger. 4. Adductor ossis metucurpi or opponens minimi digiti (unci-metacarpien, Cruveilh.)—It resembles in disposition and form the opponens pollicis. Having the same origins with the preceding muscle, its fibres proceed downwards and inwards, the superior being nearly hori- zontal ; they are inserted into all the internal border of the fifth metacarpal bone. Relations.—It is covered by the two last muscles; its posterior surface is applied to the fifth metacarpal bone, the corresponding inter- osseous, and the tendon of the flexor sublimis going to the little finger. It carries the fifth metacarpal bone forwards and outwards, thereby augmenting the cavity of the hand, and in a measure opposing the little finger to the thumb, but the articulation of the metacarpal bone with the us unciforme allows of so very little rotatory motion, that it is rather a motion of adduction and flexion than of opposition. c. Muscles of the middle putmar region.— In the middle palmar region we have seven muscles, four connected to the tendons of the flexor profundus, the lumbricales, so called from their resemblance to earth-worms; and three deeper-seated muscles, the palmar inter- ossei occupying a part of the second, third, and fourth interosseous spaces between the meta- carpal bones, the remaining part of those spaces being filled up by muscles ; we shall presently examine the dorsal interossei. 1. Lumbricales (ficctentes primum interno- dium, Spig.) are four slender, elongated, fusi- form, fleshy bundles, attached to the tendons of the flexor profundus, just after it escapes from under the annular ligament, distinguished into first, second, &c. from without inwards. The first arises from the fore and outer part of the flexor profundus tendon belonging to the index finger, sometimes also from the accompanying tendon of the flexor sublimis ; the second lum- bricalis arises from the radial side of the tendon of the same muscle destined to the middle finger; the third and fourth are double penni- form arising from the opposed surfaces of the three internal tendons of the same muscle; from these attachments they proceed, the two middle vertically downwards, the outer out- wards, the inner inwards, towards the outer side of the metacarpophalangeal articulations of the fingers, where they end in flat broad tendons, which are inserted into the outer border of the common extensor tendon, in common with the tendons of the correspond- ing interossei with which they are confused ; they assist in completing the sheath which the extensor tendons form for the back of the fingers. Relations.—Their anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the flexor sublimis, by the palmar aponeurosis, and collateral vessels and nerves of the fingers. Their posterior surface lies upon the interossei, the inferior transverse metacarpal ligament, and the phalanges. Use.—They assist in the flexion of the fingers upon the metacarpus, at the same time drawing them outwards, they steady the extensor ten- dons, keeping them applied to the phalanges. The interossei, of which there are seven in all, are small muscles situated between the meta- carpal bones, to which ihey are attached supe- riorly, their inferior attachment being to the sides of the first phalanges and the extensor communis tendons; there are three on the pal- mar aspect, which are simple, and four on the dorsal aspect of the hand, which are bifid mus- cles ; there are two to each interosseous space, excepting the first, which has only one : we shall first examine the palmar interossei. 2. Interossei tnterni digitorum munus, (rneta- carpo-phalangiais lateralis palmuires, Chauss.) Short, prismatic, and triangular; they arise, the first, or posterior indicts, from the root and inner side of the metacarpal bone of the fore-finger; the second, or prior annularis, from the root and outer side of the metacarpal bone of the ring finger; the third, or interosseus auricularis, from the root and outer side of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. They extend along the metacarpal bones, to which they are attach- ed, and are inserted by short tendons; the second and third in common with those of the lumbricales, into the outer and upper, and the first into the inner and upper part of the corre- sponding first phalanges and side of the exten- sor tendons. Relations.—Anteriorly they are covered by the deep flexor tendons and palmar muscles; posteriorly they correspond to the dorsal inter- ossei, which are also connected with them alons their unattached margin. Use.—The simplest way of regarding their action, which is rather complex, is to refer it towards the axis of the hand or a central line drawn through the third metacarpal bone and the middle finger, in which case it is easily perceived that the palmar interossei are adduc- tors towards the axis of the hand. II. The only intrinsic muscles on the dorsal aspect of the hand are the dorsal interossei, interossei esterni digitorum manus. Their com- mon points are, that they appear both on the dorsal and palmar aspects of the hand ; they are bicipital; arising from the opposed surfaces of two metacarpal bones, both heads termina- ting in a common tendon, which is attached to the sides of the first phalanges and extensor tendons that are not supplied by the palmar in- terossei. They are four in number; the first, or adductor indicis, alone merits a particular description. It is the largest; arising from the superior half of the external border of the first metacarpal bone, and externally from all the external surface of the second metacarpal bone;