137 ENTOZOA. by a small orifice in the centre of that part,* and the corresponding cavities from which a clear or milky fluid is ejected by the posterior pores of some smaller species of Distomaia and Diplostomata.f Organs of generation.—The generative sys- tem in the Entozoa presents great varieties in the form, structure, and combination of its several parts. Sometimes the female or productive organs alone are discernible. In many Cestoidea, and in all the Trematoda, the male gland is present and communicates with the oviduct, so that each individual is sufficient for itself in the reproductive capacity. In the Acanthocephala and Ne- matoidea the sexes are distinct, and a con- currence of two individuals is required for impregnation. No trace of a generative apparatus has hither- to been detected in the Cystic Entozoa. They would seem to be gemmiparous, and to have the reproductive power diffused over the whole cyst, at least in the Acephalocysts, in which the young are not developed from any special organ, or limited to any particular part of the cyst. The ovaries in the most simple of the Ces- toid worms, as the Ligula, are situated in the centre of each joint, where they open by a transverse aperture, from which projects a small filamentary process or lemniscus, re- garded by Rudolphi as a male organ. In the Bolhriocephali the ovaries have a similar po- sition, and in the Bothriocephalus latus (Jig. 89) assume a stellated figure, with Fig. 89. the aperture in the centre, T3 /, which is situated in the mid- dle of each joint. In the Bothriocephalus microcephalus the ovary consists of one or two rounded corpuscles in the centre of the joints, but the generative orifices are margi- nal and irregularly alternate, and the oviducts may be dis- tinctly seen passing backwards to them. In the^. Tenia Candelabra- C ria a sacciform ovary exists in each segment, which sends '©Sjj® off an oviduct to the marginal outlet. Besides which, ac- ^^(|P§' cording to Rudolphi, there is (Gaj%} a longitudinal canal, uniting Ovarian apertures the different ovaries together, and ova, Bothrio- and undergoing a partial dila- cephalm latus. tation at the anterior part of each joint.—May not this be the male organ ? The androgynous structure of the generative apparatus is very well displayed in the Tape- worm of this country, the Tania Solium. In each joint of this worm there is a large branched ovarium (i, jig. 90) from which a duct (/i) is continued to the lateral open- Pig. 90. * See Zool. Trans, pt. iv. vol. i. p. 381. ng. 18. See Nordmann, loc. cit. p. 38. t See Nordmann, loc. cit. p. 140. pi. 41. c " e Generative organs maynijied, Tania ing. The ova are crowded in the ovary; and in those situated in the posterior segments of the body, they generally present a brownish colour, which renders the form of their recep- tacle sufficiently conspicuous.* In segments which have been expelled separately, we have observed the ovary to be nearly empty, and it is in these that the male duct and gland is most easily perceived. For this purpose it is only necessary to place the segment between two slips of glass, and view it by means of a simple lens, magnifying from twenty to thirty diameters: a well-defined line (g), more slender and opake than the oviduct, may then be traced extending from the termination of the oviduct, at the lateral opening, to the middle of the joint, and inclining in a curved or * The dendritic ovarian receptacles can also be injected with mercury or coloured size, and they have been regarded, but erroneously, as forming part of the nutrient apparatus.