191 EYE. layer only which extends so far, and others that the vascular layer extends over the lens. No one however at present, who describes from observation, denies the termination of the ner- vous layer at the posterior margin of the ciliary body, although many insist upon the extension of the vascular layer to the circumference of the lens. The subject has received more attention „than it deserves, as it involves no consideration of importance, either physiological or anato- mical ; but I am convinced from a very care- ful scrutiny that no such layer extends between the ciliary processes of the choroid and those of the hyaloid membrane; these two parts being mutually inserted into each other, as will pre- sently be explained. In the paper above quoted in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions 1 have explained what appears to me to be the arrangement of this part in the following words : " On removing the choroid, ciliary processes, and iris, we see the retina terminating with a denned dentated margin, about a quarter of an inch from the circumference of the lens: be- tween this line of termination and the lens, the vitreous humour retains upon its surface part of the black pigment which covered the ciliary processes. If the eye be examined shortly after death, removing the black pigment from this part of the vitreous humour with a camel- hair pencil, there is an appearance of, at least, the vascular layer being continued to the lens; this part not being so transparent as the rest of the hyaloid membrane, or so opaque as the retina. From such an examination 1 was led to con- clude that the vascular layer was continued to the margin of the lens, this part not being so transparent as the rest of the hyaloid membrane, or so opaque as the retina. From such an examination I was led to conclude that the vascular layer was continued to the margin of the lens, but I adopted a con- trary opinion after I had witnessed the change which took place when the part had remained twenty-four hours in water: the retina then separating with a slight force, and frequently detached by the disturbance given in making the examination. If, after removing the choroid without disturbing the retina, the part be al- lowed to remain in water for some days, the medullary part of the retina begins to give way, and may be altogether detached by agita- tion in water, leaving the vascular layer firmly attached at the line of termination just de- scribed. V\ ith all the care I could bestow, I have, however, never succeeded in separating this layer from the vitreous humour further. If the maceration be continued for a few days longer, the vascular layer of the retina gives way, the larger vessels alone remaining attached at the original line of termination of the retina, and appearing to enter the hyaloid membrane at this part; the appearance which at first so much resembled the vascular layer proceeding towards the lens remaining unchanged, being in fact part of the vitreous humour itself. The circumstance which has most strengthened the notion of the retina being continued forward to the lens is, that often on raising the choroid and ciliary processes from the vitreous humour, we find those processes covered in several places by a fine semi-transparent membrane insinuated between the folds ; this is supposed to be the vascular layer of the retina, but is really the corresponding part of the hyaloid membrane which is torn up, being firmly united to this part of the choroid." After this article had been prepared for press, I received an admirable monograph upon the retina by B. C. It. Langenbeck, son of the celebrated professor of that name in the Uni- versity of Gottingen, in which the nature, structure, and relations of this most important and interesting part of the organ are subjected to a critical and elaborate inquiry. He advo- cates the membranous nature of the black pig- ment on the inner surface of the choroid, and gives an engraving of its organization as ascer- tained by the microscope, resembling that given from the essay of Mr. Jones in the preceding pages. He devotes several pages to the de- scription of the membrane which I found covering the medullary layer of the retina, and adds the testimony of a skilful anatomist in support of my description, sufficient to coun- terbalance the convenient scepticism of certain writers better skilled in making plausible books than difficult dissections. The fibrous struc- ture of the medullary layer of the retina is established, and a plate given of the peculiar nodulated condition of these fibres. The work concludes with an account of the morbid changes of structure observed in the retina, a subject which, notwithstanding its manfest importance, has not hitherto attracted the atten- tion which it deserves. I am indebted to Dr. Graves for the following abstract of some recent investigations of Treviranus on the same subject. " From microscopical examinations Treviranus demonstrates that the cerebral mass, both medullary and cortical, consists of hollow cylinders containing a soft matter. These cylinders, extremely minute in the cortical substance, are somewhat larger in the medul- lary, and still larger in the nerves. In the retina he finds, that after the optic nerve has penetrated the sclerotic and choroid, its cylin- ders or nervous tubes spread themselves out on every side either singly or collected into bundles, each cylinder or collection of tubes bending inwards through the vascular layer, and terminating in the form of a papilla on the vitreous humour." Of the vitreous humour.—It has already been stated that the globe of the eye is divided into two chambers by the iris, the posterior of which is distended by a spherical transparent mass called the vitreous humour, which does not completely fill this chamber between the back of the iris and the hollow sphere of the retina, but is discontinued or compressed at a short distance from the back of the iris, having a narrow space between it and that membrane, called the posterior chamber of the aqueous humour. This trans- parent mass is composed of water containing certain saline and animal ingredients, deposited in exquisitely delicate and perfectly transparent cellular membrane; hence it is capable of sus-