HERMAPHRODITISM. 710 distinctly marked. Between the rectum and bladder there was placed a very large pear- shaped bag or pouch (./"), with firm, coria- ceous, but not thick walls, and distended with fluid. This bag or imperfect cystoid uterus terminated inferiorly by a narrow neck, in a vagina that opened into the urethra, in the situ- ation of the verumontanum, and was there dilated into a large bag or ampulla, occupying exactly the site of the prostate gland, and re- sembling this organ also in its form and posi- tion. The internal membrane of the uterus was collected at its neck into numerous val- vular-like folds, and that of the vagina had also a rugous or plicated arrangement. From the fundus of the large sac of the uterus, and not from its angles, but from near its middle, two impervious solid ducts (Fallopian tubes, or rather vasa deferentia,) arose, and after a somewhat flexuous course reached the testicle (c f) lying in the superior part of the iliac fossce. These ducts had attached to them at one or two points a number of small reddish nodules (6 b), consisting, according to Steghlener, of glandular granules, and described by Acker- mann in his case as vesicular seminales. The canal of the urethra was obliterated for a short distance towards the fossa navicularis, and the urinary bladder (;') and uterus (i i) were ex- tremely distended, and the left kidney (>«) was vesicular. Mayer, in the work already referred to,* has described and delineated the following five cases of the present species of hermaphroditic malformation in the human subject, all of which he had himself met with and dissected. /". In a fcetus of the fourth month, and affected withomphaloceleand extroversion of the urinary bladder,lie found male testicles (fig. 302, Fig. 302. a a) with their epididymes (b b), and a two- horned uterus (c) terminating in a vagina (tf), that opened into the posterior part of the uri- nary bladder (e). From the left testicle a con- torted vas deferens ( /) arose,and ran down to the vagina; the right vas deferens (g) was shorter, * Icones Select. &c. p. 8-16. See also Walther and Giaefe's Journal der Chirurgie und Augen- heilkunde, Bd. vii. lift. 3, and I3d. viii. Hft. 2. and became thread-like, and disappeared near the corresponding cornu of the uterus. A ru- diment only of the left male vesicula seminalis was observable. The external organs were male; the glans penis (h) was imperforate. g. In another fcetus of the sixth month,* there existed a perfect set of internal and exter- nal male sexual organs, viz., testicles, epididy- mes, vasa deferentia, and vesicul* seminales, with a prostate gland and a normally formed penis and scrotum. But besides these, there was also present an imperfect female uterus, the body of which divided into two cornua, the right longer and incurvated, the left shorter and sacciform. The neck of the uterus was marked internally by its usual arborescent appearance ; and it opened into a vagina that terminated in the urethra near the exit of the latter from the urinary bladder. h. In a third casef of hermaphroditic malfor- mation in an infant who diedof convulsions when six months old, Mayer found the following blend- ing of the organs of the two sexes. Of the internal male genital organs there were present two bodies at the inguinal rings that were evi- dently testicles, {fig. 303, a, a) as was proved Fig. 303. not only by their position, but by their form, coverings, connections, and internal structure, (" theirsubstance," says Mayer, " being evident- ly composed of yellow canals"); their epidi- dymes (b b) were also distinctly developed, and each of them sent off a vas deferens (c c), which * Icones, p. 8. tab. ii. fig. 5. t Icones, p. 9, tab. iii. fig. 1 and 2. *j