689 HERMAPHRODITISM. with some of the female genital organs deve- loped in so excessive a degree as to approach in several points the more perfect structure of them in man. The impossibility, however, as mentioned by Beclard, of finding any bodies like testicles in the labia or in the course of the inguinal canals, and more particularly the well-ascertained fact of the individual menstru- ating, can leave no doubt as to the nature of her sex. The perforation of the enlarged cli- toris with the imperfect urethra is interesting, when compared with the peculiarities that we have formerly alluded to, of this part in the female Loris, as pointing out, what we have so often occasion to observe in human monstrosi- ties, a type of structure assumed by a mal- formed organ similar to the normal type of struc- ture of the same organ, in some of the inferior animals. Arnaud* has represented and described at great length an interesting example of herma- phroditic malformation that seems referable to the head of spurious hermaphroditism in the female, although there are two circumstances in the history of the case which have led some authors to doubt the accuracy of this opinion ; and the opportunity that was afforded of ascer- taining the true structure of the parts after death was unfortunately lost through careless- ness and neglect. The subject of the malfor- mation, aged 35, passed in society for a female, and came to Arnaud complaining of a small tumour (fig. 288, e) in the right groin, which Fig. 288. had incommoded hermuchduring her whole life. On examining this body, Arnaud was led to believe that it was a testicle, and he found a similar tumour (_/') situated nearer the inguinal ring on the left side. The bags that contained them represented very exactly the labia externa. The clitoris (a) was two inches and nine lines in length, and placed between the labia at their upper angle. The glans (b) was well formed, and though imperforate at its extremity, it pre- sented a small depression which ran backwards along the whole inferior border of the clitoris, indicating the situation of a collapsed urethral canal, that seemed pervious for some length at * Dissertation sur les Hermaphrodites, p. 265, pi. x. VOL. II. its posterior part, as it became distended when the patient evacuated the bladder. The ori- fice (c), however, from which the urine actually flowed, occupied the situation in which it exists in the perfectly formed female. There was not any vaginal opening, and the individual men- struated per anum. At each menstrual period a tumour (d) always appeared in the perinaeum, which gradually increased in size, becoming, in the course of three or four days, as large as a small hen's egg. When the perinaeal tumour had reached this size, blood began to flow from the anus, although no haemorrhoids or other disease of the bowel was present. At these periods the individual had often expe- rienced very alarming symptoms, and in order to avert these, Arnaud was induced to make an opening into the soft yielding space at which the perinaeal tumour above alluded to appeared; and at a considerable depth he found a cavity two inches in circumference, and about two and a half in breadth, having projecting into it at one point an eminence which was supposed from its situation to be possibly the os uteri. At the next period the menstrual fluid came entirely by the artificial perinaeal opening, and the usual severe attendant symptoms did not supervene. From inattention, however, to the use of the tent, the opening was allowed to become completely shut, so that at the sixth return of the menses they flowed again by the anus, and were accompanied by the old train of severe symptoms. The individual lived for several years afterwards. Her conformation of body was remarkable. Her skin was rough, thick, and swarthy; she had a soft black beard on her face ; her voice was coarse and mascu- line ; her chest narrow; her mammas were flat and small ; her arms lean and muscular; her hands large, and her fingers of very considerable length and strength. The form, in fact, of the upper part of her body was masculine, but in the lower part the female conformation predo- minated. The pelvis was wide and large, the os pubis very elevated, the buttocks large, the thighs and legs round, and the feet small. In this remarkable instance, if we do not go so far as to conceive the coexistence of some of the internal organs of both sexes, we must, from the well-ascertained fact of the menstrual evacuations, allow the person at least to have been a female. In that case we can only sup- pose the tumours in the labia to be the ovaries descended into that situation ; and to the same excess of development which has produced this effect, we may attribute the closure of the vaginal orifice, and the formation of the imper- fect urethral canal in the body of the clitoris. Spurious hermaphroditism from preternatural enlargement of the clitoris has been recognised among some of the lower animals. Rudolphi* has noticed a mare of this kind that had a clitoris so large as almost to shut up the en- trance into the vagina. Lecoqf has detailed * Riulolphi's Bemeikun^en auf einer Reise, &c. Bd. i. s. 79. See a case also figured by Ruysch la his Thesaurus Anat. lib. viii. no. 53. t Jouin. Piat. <!e Mtd. Vet. 1827, p. 103. 2 z