767 HIBERNATION. * Animal (Economy, p. 114. % Vespertilio noclula. induced in the bulk of the air; if its tempera- ture be taken by the thermometer, it will be found to be many degrees lower than that of the animal in its active state; if it be deprived of atmospheric air, it is not immediately in- commoded or injured. These facts I have observed in the hedge- hog,* the dormouse,f and the bat.J If other authors have not made the same observations, it is because they have not been aware how easily this sleep is disturbed. To walk over the floor, to touch the table, is sufficient, in many instances, to rouse the animal, to re-pro- duce respiration, and to frustrate the experi- ment. The bat, which is a crepuscular or nocturnal feeder, regularly passes from its state of activity to one which may be designated diwnation. The respiration and the temperature fail; the necessity for respiration is greatly lessened. During the summer of 1831, I carefully ob- served a bat in this condition. If it were quite quiet, its respiration became very imperfect; its temperature was but a few degrees above that of the atmosphere; being placed under water, it remained during eleven minutes unin- jured, and on being removed became lively and continued well. I have more recently watched the habits of two hedgehogs, in a temperature varying from 45° to 50°. These animals alternately awake, take food, and fall asleep. One of them is frequently awake, whilst the other is dormant, and goes to sleep at a time that the other awakes, but without regularity. When awake, the temperature of each, taken by pressing the bulb of a thermometer upon the stomach, is about 95°; when dormant, it is 4.5°; that of the atmosphere being 42° or 43°. The duration of this sleep is from two to three days, accord- ing to the temperature of the atmosphere. On the 4th of February, 1832, the temperature of the atmosphere being 50°, both the hedgehogs were dormant,—the temperature of one was 51°, and that of the other 52°; on the succeed- ing day, the temperature of the atmosphere had fallen one degree, the temperature of one of the hedgehogs was 49°, whilst that of the other, which had become lively, had risen to 87°; on the succeeding day, the first had become some- what lively, and its temperature had risen to 60°, that of the other being 85°, and that of the atmosphere 47°. I have observed precisely the same alterna- tions in the dormouse ; except that this animal awakes daily in moderate temperatures, takes its food, and re-passes into a state of sleep, in which the respiration is greatly impeded, and the temperature little higher than that of the atmosphere. On the day on which the observations were made on the hedgehogs, the atmosphere being 49°, that of two dormice was 52°; on the suc- ceeding day, the external temperature being 47°, that is, lower by two degrees, the tempera- * Erinacetis Europrrns. + Myoxua avpllanariiis. ture of one of these dormice was 92°, and that of the other 94°; and only three hours after- wards, the temperatures were 60° and 70° re- spectively, with a slight appearance of lethargy. The hedgehog and the dormouse appear, in fact, to awake from the call of hunger, then to eat, and then again to become dormant, in temperatures which may be termed moderate. The bat, which could not find food if it did awake, does not undergo these periodical changes, except in the summer season. It ap- pears to me, from the most careful observation, that there is every degree between the ordinary sleep of these animals and the most profound hibernation. It is quite obvious, from these observations, that the ordinary sleep of hibernating animals differs from that of others, by inducing a more impaired state of the respiration and of the evolution of heat, with an augmented power of bearing the abstraction of the atmospheric air. This sleep probably passes into true hiberna- tion, as the blood which circulates through the brain becomes more and more venous, from the diminution of the respiration, and as the muscular fibre of the heart acquires increased irritability. It is absolutely necessary, in comparing the powers of hibernating and other animals, of evolving heat, accurately to observe whether there be any tendency to sleep. Mr. Hunter's and M. Edwards's experiments are deficient for want of this attention. Mr. Hunter, com- paring the common mouse and the dormouse, exposed to a very low temperature, observes, that the temperature of the former was " dimi- nished 16° at the diaphragm, and 18° in the pelvis ; while in the dormouse it gained five degrees, but lost on a repetition." * The ex- planation of these facts is afforded by the obser- vation, that when the dormouse increased in temperature it was " very lively," but that on the " repetition" it had become " less lively ;" the mouse was probably in a state of languor from apprehension or for want of food. M. Edwards omits to mention whether the hibernating animals, in his experiments, were disposed to be lively or dormant, or whether they had recently recovered from the dormant state. He does not even mention whether the experiments on the bat were performed in the evening, its period of activity, or in the morn- ing or day, its period of lethargy or diurnation. Without a particular attention to these points, no correct result could be obtained. The hiber- nating animal, in a state of vigour and activity, is a totally different being from the same animal disposed to become dormant. In order to perform this experiment in a satisfactory manner, the bat, for example, should be employed in the evening, when it has naturally awoke from its deep day-slumber, the hedgehog when it has awoke spontaneously to take food ; otherwise the disposition to sleep may explain the loss of temperature. We must hesitate, therefore, in subscribing to the follow- ing conclusion of M. Edwards: " No"« voyons