938 INSECTA. rectus. These oblique muscles are the anta- gonists of the recti, and when acting alone draw the posterior pdrt of eacli segment back- wards and to the median line ; consequently, when the layers of only one side are in action, the anterior part of the body is flexed laterally in the form of a curve, but when those on both sides are in action the anterior part of the body is carried directly backwards. Beneath these oblique muscles there is another, which is formed of only two broad fibres. It arises from the anterior of the three ridges of attach- ment in the median line, and passing diago- nally forwards and outwards parallel to the third oblique, beneath its inner margin, is attached to the third ridge of insertion. This may be called the fourth oblique (11). Beneath the posterior extremity of this muscle lies the third rectus (12), which is formed of three fibres, somewhat broader than those of the second or smaller rectus, but running longitu- dinally in exactly the same direction, and hav- ing the same origin and insertion. On re- moving the third rectus we expose the eighth layer of muscular fibres. This arises from the anterior ridge, and is formed of three broad fibres which are partially crossed at their origin by the third rectus. It passes diagonally out- wards, and is attached to the third ridge, extend- ing as far as the margin of the rectus and third oblique, by which it is concealed. This is the fifth oblique (13). When this layer is removed, the triangular and transverse muscles are exposed. The triangularis. (14) is composed of nine dis- tinct fibres, which originate in a longitudinal series that extends about half-way across the segment. The fibres pass from their origin diagonally backwards and outwards, with vary- ing degrees of obliquity, and are inserted by strong tendons into the anterior of the three transverse ridges (16). They arise also by distinct tendons, which indigitate with a set of short transverse fibres, ten in number, and which occupy the median line beneath the ner- vous cord,and form the transversus medius (15). This muscle contracts the diameter of the mid- dle of the under surface of a segment. The triangularis, when acting with its fellow of the opposite side, shortens the posterior half of the ventral surface of the segment; but when acting singly, or in conjunction with the third oblique, shortens that side of the segment, and assists to bend the body laterally. It is a very powerful muscle in locomotion, and probably is of great use in shortening and contracting the segments during the transformations. The transversi ubdominalcs (17) are six short broad and thick fibres, that form two sets, and originate at some distance from the median line, posteriorly to and on the outer side of the tendons of the third oblique, and passing transversely outwards are inserted directly into the tegument, about half-way across the segment. Like the transversus medius they contract the diameter of the ventral surface of the segment, and bring the sides towards the median line. Anteriorly to these muscles, but further from the median line, is another set of six short fibres, the ubdominales anteriores (18), which arise at some distance from the median line, and passing transversely outwards are inserted into the lateral part of the segment. The abdominales lateralis (19) are situated in the posterior half of the segment. They are in- serted by three great fasciculi of narrow ten- dons into the inner and inferior part of the segment, and consist of eight muscular fibres connected in the first tendon, four in the se- cond, and seven in the third. They form very powerful muscles, which interlace with each other, and originate directly from the tegu- ment of the sides of the segment, at different distances posteriorly to the spiracle. Some of them (20) are much longer than others, and the whole of them are connected with the false feet of the abdomen. On removing these muscles we expose the attachment of the ob- liquus posterior (21), which is composed of nine small fibres that pass diagonally outwards from their origin, the anterior ridge, to their insertion in the tegument at different distances beneath the lateral abdominal muscles. Ano- ther set of nine distinct fibres, the postero- laterals obliqui (22), which originate from the same ridge at the lateral part of the segment, cross over the last lateral abdominal muscle, and are inserted between it and the one im- mediately before it. Besides these layers of fibres there are four other sets which seem to be particularly concerned in the function of respiration. Of these the transversus lateralis (28) arises tendinous from beneath the lateral part of the great rectus, and passing upwards, internal to the great longitudinal trachea (£), which it crosses, is inserted beneath the ex- ternal margin of the dorsal rectus (A). The second transversus lateralis (24) arises pos- teriorly to the first, crosses the trachea, and continuing its course upwards is inserted into the tegument of the back, about half-way across the dorsal rectus. These muscles ap- pear to be directly concerned in contracting the segments during expiration. Besides these muscles there are also the retractor spiraculi and the retractor valvule, which belong also to the ventral and lateral surface of each segment. The retractor spiraculi (25) is attached by a long tendon (26) to the third ridge of insertion. It is a long, fleshy, and somewhat conical mus- cle, which passes upwards and obliquely back- wards to the spiracle, unto the lower margin of which it is attached, and is blended with the circular fibres that constitute an orbicular muscle to that orifice. It appears to be di- rectly concerned in forcible expiration, and draws the spiracle inwards and downwards, and when the orbicular muscle acts in con- junction with it assists in closing the spiracle. The remaining muscle, the retractor valvulce (27), is the direct antagonist of the last. It is composed of five distinct fibres (fig. 401, c), which arise from the posterior margin of the spiracle, and partly also from the attachment of the retractor spiraculi (e), and then, con- verging, end in a tendon that passes diagonally upwards and backwards, and is inserted into a little elevation in the tegument. It is the proper retractor or levator muscle of the spira-