647 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HEART. was, I believe, first pointed out by Dr. Watson. Ossification most commonly manifests itself in the fibrous zones which surround the heart's orifices, and therefore it is chiefly to be found at the bases of the valves; but it likewise ex- tends towards their free margin ; and it too is apt to be developed in the double crescentic form in the aortic valves. Sometimes the ossi- fication appears to involve principally the mar- gin of the valve in whole or in part, and this occurs much more frequently in the semilunar than in the auriculo-ventricular valves. Osseous deposits in the valves are either in the form of thin calcareous lamina? or spiculoe, small round- ed points, or large masses more or less rounded, and often projecting to a considerable extent beyond the surface of the valve. The effect which the developement of these new deposits on or in the valves has upon their size and form, as well as upon the size and form of the openings which the valves surround, is very various and very interesting to the patho- logist. The almost invariable alteration which they produce in the size of the valve is to shorten it or dimiwsh it in depth ; the valve becomes corrugated\ its free margin thickened, or folded in the direction of the current, or in an opposite direction, the whole valve present- ing a curled appearance. The orifices are always more or less, diminished in size when one or more valves have acquired this rigid, inelastic, and contracted form; the diminution is produced by the valve or valves always pro- jecting more or less into the orifice; but the greatest degree of narrowing of the aperture is occasioned by the adhesion of two or more valves at their free margins; and in this way, as may be readily conceived, an orifice be- comes sometimes almost completely obliterated. The same causes change the shape of the orifi- ces, and consequently we find altered size and shape constantly going together. It is in the left auriculo-ventricular opening that these changes are most commonly seen; they rarely occur to so great an extent in the aortic orifice, and seldom at all in the apertures of the right heart. My friend, Mr. Adams, has made some most valuable remarks upon the contracted au- riculo-ventricular orifice of the left side, in his very valuable paper on diseases of the heart in the Dublin Hospital Reports. His description of the anatomical characters of the disease cor- responds so exactly with what I have many times witnessed, that I cannot refrain from quoting it. " When the dilated (left) auricle is cut into and cleared of the blood it contains, at its lowest part, instead of the mitral valve, a concave membranous septum of a yellow colour is seen, which is perforated by an oblong fissure, about half an inch in length, and one or two lines broad; this fissure I have observed to be always obliquely situated, and to run parallel to the septum of the ventricles; it ge- nerally is of a semilunar form, the concavity of the curve looking towards the root of the aorta, the convexity backwards ; the first formed by the larger portion of the mitral valve, the latter by the smaller; the edges of this oblong fissure are generally studded with long depositions; viewed from the left ventricle, the membranous septum is convex, and the angles of the fissure are connected by shortened chords tendineas, with two very thick fleshy columns, the one in front, the other behind." Dilatation of the valves.—We sometimes find the valves of the heart in a dilated or aneu- rismal state. Laennec has placed on record an example of this affecting the mitral valve ;* " A little pouch, half an inch long and more than four lines in diameter, projected on the supe- rior surface of this valve," i. e. into the left auricle. Mr. Thurnam has appended the detail of several cases to his memoir already quoted on Aneurisms of the Heart.f He de- scribes a specimen, preserved in the Hunterian Museum, affording an example of four aneuris- maj pouches of the tricuspid valve. The sime writer likewise records a case in which there was congenital absence of one aortic valve; the two, which were present, were thick and fleshy, and rough on their ventricular surfaces. The edge of the one was smooth, that of the other rugged ; there was a deposit of ossific matter at their points of attachment. From the ventricu- lar surface of the valve with the smooth border, there projected a little bag that would hold a swan-shot, and which opened by a little round mouth on the aortic surface of the valve. It had two little slits in its most depending por- tion, and was evidently formed by a dilatation of the valve itself." Atrophy of the valves.—We have a familiar instance of atrophy of valves in the case of the Eustachian valve, which undergoes as it were a sort of natural atrophy from the commencement of extra-uterine life. The valve becomes cri- briform, and the holes by which it is pierced gradually enlarge and coalesce, and in this way the valve is worn away. We often find one or more of the semilunar valves perforated by openings of a similar kind, without the co-ex- istence of any other disease ; the margin of the opening is always smooth, and the valve itself thinner and more flaccid than is natural. Ac- cording to Dr. Williams, the wasting affects the posterior portion of the mitral valve, " the membrane of which is often annihilated by it, the cords being inserted directly into the auri- cular ring." The anterior lamina is also occa- sionally found much shortened, and without those fine thin expansions of membrane which commonly unite the cords to each other, below their insertion into the thicker part of the valve. .Entozoa in the heart.—The occurrence of entozoa in the human heart must be considered to be extremely rare, at least the cases on record which may be depended on are very few. Andral states that he found the cysticercus once in the human heart, but has seen it fre- quently in the hearts of measly pigs. Many examples are mentioned by various authors of ascarides, filaria?, cercariae, and other entozoa in the hearts of dogs and many other of the in- * Quoted in Bouillaud's work, t. ii. p. 510. t Log. cit.