FEMORAL ARTERY. 238 ficial, and its pulsations can be felt during life with greater or less facility according to circumstances, to be explained. It has, how- ever, four structures interposed between it and the surface, and forming its coverings; viz. the skin, the subcutaneous cellulai stratum, the anterior wall of the femoral canal, and the prolongation of the fascia transversalis or the femoral sheath. The subcutaneous cellular structure pre- sents a remarkable difference according to the condition of the subject or certain other cir- cumstances. When the body is devoid of fat or emaciated, this structure appears a thin, condensed, dry and lamelliform stratum, con- tinued from the abdomen downward upon the lower extremity, and generally denominated the superficial fascia of'the thigh; but when, on the contrary, the body is in good condition, and the quantity of superficial adeps is con- siderable, the appearance of a membranous expansion is removed, and in its stead a thick and uniform stratum of fat is found in- terposed between the skin and the fascia lata. In other cases presenting a medium condition, the stratum of fat and the membranous expan- sion may be both observed : in such case the former is generally superficial, and the latter underneath; but when the accumulation of adeps in the subcutaneous structure is more considerable, e. g. in the healthy infant or in many adults, particularly among females, no trace of superficial fascia is to be found. So much for the varieties which the subcutaneous cellular structure presents naturally. It is also found frequently in abnormal conditions deserving of attention : at times it is divisible to a greater or less extent into a succession of expansions, having each the appearances of fasciae and being of indeterminate number: this disposition, which occurs not unfrequently, and is of considerable importance in a practical point of view, appears due to the influence of pressure exerted by tumours, e. g. that of hernia. Again, in anasarca the subcutaneous structure becomes greatly increased in depth, and loses all appearance of membrane, seeming then a deep gelatinous stratum, consisting of the cellular structure and the effused serum. The depth, therefore, of the femoral artery from the surface, and the number of coverings which it may have in individual cases, must be materially influenced by those several con- ditions of the subcutaneous cellular structure when present, and they should never be lost sight of; else uncertainty and embarrassment must arise in the conduct of operations. It is further to be borne in mind that the account of the coverings of the artery given in this description has reference to the natural and most simple arrangement of those structures. The subcutaneous structure also encloses within it the superficial vessels, nerves, and glands, the relation of some of which to the artery requires notice. The superficial vessels are the saphena vein, the superficial femoral veins, and those veins and arteries by which the inguinal glands are supplied. The saphena vein ascends, from the inner and back part of the knee, along the inner and an- terior aspects of the thigh to its upper extre- mity, where it joins the femoral vein upon its anterior and internal side, at the distance of from one inch to an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament. During its ascent the vein passes forward and outward, and is situate internal to the femoral artery: at the lower extremity of the middle third of the thigh, (the point at which the artery is about to pass into the ham,) it is placed superficial to the vessel, between it and the internal surface of the limb, near to the inner, or at this part the posterior margin of the sartorius muscle ; but as the vein ascends, the distance between the vessels increases, partly because of the greater width of the thigh at its upper part, and partly because the course of the vein describes a curve convex inward ; and at the termination of the latter it amounts to the width of the femoral vein or somewrhat more; lower down it is still greater in consequence of the curve formed by the saphena. Hence, in operations upon the superior part of the artery, the saphena ought to be exempt from danger; while at the lower part it must be very much exposed, if the inner margin of the sartorius be cut upon as the guide to the vessel. The superficial femoral veins next claim attention: they are very irregular in their course and destination, and therefore are the moie likely to prove a source of embarrass- ment in operation. They are smaller than the saphena, but yet are in many cases of con- siderable size: they present, according to the subject, two dispositions; either they join the saphena during its ascent at variable points in the course of the thigh, and in such case cross the limb and the artery obliquely from without inward, at different heights ; or they form one or two considerable vessels, which ascend external to the saphena, and open into the femoral vein hi front, at the same time with the former vessel, passing through the superficial lamina of the fascia lata in the same manner as it does. When there are two such veins, the inner one is generally situate internal to the artery, between it and the saphena, and consequently very near to it; while the external one, or the vein, if there be but one, runs upward and inward, and crosses the artery in its upper thi.d, between the point at which the saphena joins the femoral vein and that at which the artery is overlapped by the sartorius: the last-de- scribed vein, when present, must obviously be much endangered i:i exposing the femoral artery at this part of its course, and perhaps is the vessel which has given rise to the idea that the saphena itself may be encountered in cutting upon the artery in this situation. The superficial inguinal glands are distin- guished into two sets, a superior and an in- ferior: those of the former are more numerous, and nearer to the integuments than the latter. They are ranged immediately below l'oupart's ligament, having their longer diameter parallel to it, and in greatest number superficial to that part of the iliac portion of the fascia lata,