541 ORGAN OF HEARING. to enable me to say positively which description is the most correct.* The nervous fibrils of the cochlea, according to Breschet, traverse the osseous zone of the spiral lamina under the form of cylindrical bundles, which, in the middle zone, become flat, and anastomose by loops. These loops are intermingled with small osseous particles. Near the outer margin of the middle zone, the neurilemma leaves the nervous filaments, and goes to form the framework of the membraneous zone, whilst small globules are seen irregularly disseminated around the convexity of the loops which the filaments form by their anastomoses. All this, however, is not so unequivocally dis- tinct as Breschet pretends. What I have been able to see in regard to the termination of the nerves on the spiral lamina, is simply this:— The tubular structure of the nervous filaments ceases, among grains of nervous matter ar- ranged into a sort of expansion. There is nothing that can be called a termination in loops. Mueller thinks the nervous fibrils do not form loops in the bird's cochlea. " But," says Mueller, " it is of no consequence, in the present state of the physiology of the nerves, whether the nerves of sensation form at their terminations loops or not." Treviranusf found a papillary termination of the nervous filaments, not only in the retina, but also in the nervous expansions of the ear and nose. The papillae of the auditory nerve he saw on the spiral lamina of the cochlea in young mice. The osseous part is entirely covered with filamentous papillae, lying close together. Gottsche also found the ends of the nerves of the cochlea in hares and rabbits club- shaped. In the hare, the nervous cylinders ter- minate in an oval knob. The following figures from Breschet illustrate his views of the mode of termination of the nervous filaments of the cochlea. Fig. 240. The cochlear nerve entirely isolated. (Magnified.) a, a, a. trunk of the nerve -, 6, b, b. its filaments in the osseous zone of the spiral lamina ; c, c, c. the anastomoses in the middle zone. * In the sheep I have found the division of the auditory nerve corresponding to the first description given above. t Beitrage, &c. lsten Bandes 2tes Heft. Neue Untersuchungen ueber die organischen Elemente der thierischen Koerper, p. 55. Bremen, 1835. Fig. 24t. A, a small piece of the spiral lamina, natural size, as seen from the surface corresponding to the scala vestibuli. B, the same part considerably magnified to show the globular structure (?) of the nerves and the mode in which the neurilemma leaves them at the place where they form their anastomoses. a. Portion of the trunk of the cochlear nerve ; b. fasciculi lodged in the osseous zone of the cochlea; c, c. anastomoses in the middle zone ; d, d, d. the neurilemma leaving the nervous loops, interlacing and forming the basis of the membraneous zone. As to the mode in which the nervous fila- ments enter and terminate in the membraneous labyrinth. The nervous filaments, according to Scarpa, before penetrating the vestibule of the small bony canals, lay aside their thicker sheath, and become softer and whiter. The filaments expand on the parts for which they are destined, appear to form a network, and, having penetrated into the interior, are resolved into a nervous pulp which lines the inner sur- face. Scarpa compares this nervous expansion in the saccule to the retina. According to Breschet's account, the nervous filaments, in penetrating into the interior of the different membraneous pouches, are accompa- nied by a sheath furnished by the pouch itself, which is folded inwards, and accompanies them until these filaments spread themselves out. Hence it is that, at the entrance of the nerves, the walls of the pouch are always thicker, and form a more or less considerable projection in the interior. This prominence is slight in the saccule and common sinus, but very well marked in the interior of the ampullae, where it forms a sort of incomplete septum across; a structure which is small in man and the mam- mifera, but very much developed in birds and the higher reptiles. At those prominences the nervous filaments, says Breschet, present anastomosing loops, and the neurilemma leaving them to be incorporated with vessels, and thus to form the framework of the membraneous labyrinth, the nervous globules come into immediate contact with the mass of calcareous matter. What I have said of Breschet's account of