760 HERNIA, hernia, the diagnosis is vastly more difficult, and often the surgeon has to be guided by the gene- ral symptoms of peritoneal inflammation rather than by the results of local examination, how- ever carefully performed. Mr. Colles* states that "this species of hernia is liable to stran- gulation even before it can be felt externally," —an observation I was enabled to verify a few months since in a case where a very small knuckle of intestine had not passed the inferior aperture of the femoral canal, but was lodged in an absorbent gland, which seemed to have been hollowed out to receive it.f But the hernia may be much larger and still not disco- verable in consequence of some unfortunate complication : I have seen a case of incarce- rated hernia J in which an abscess was seated at the superior part of the thigh immediately in front of the sac; and after the pus had been evacuated, some time elapsed before decisive symptoms pointed out the existence of the more formidable disease behind. There is, in the Museum in Park-street, a preparation exhibiting a fatty tumour growing on the exter- nal surface of a hernial sac. The patient from whom it was taken was the subject of opera- tion, and after the integuments and fascia had been divided and this tumour presented, some doubts were at first entertained as to the pre- sence of a hernia beneath it; but on careful examination the operator discovered the hernial tumour, and cutting cautiously through the other, opened the sac, in which a knuckle of intestine was found incarcerated. The opera- tion was successful, and the patient recovered. " In many instances," says Mr. Colles, " the difficulty of discriminating the disease is consi- derably increased by an enlarged lymphatic g'and lying anterior to a very small hernia." Perhaps there are no two affections more liable to be mistaken for each other than crural hernia and an enlarged lymphatic gland; and however apparently distinct the two affections may be, and however easy it may seem to form a diagnosis in theory, still the best surgeons speak of the difficulty of discriminating between them, and many acknowledge having fallen into the error themselves. It has happened that a patient has had a hernia on one side and an enlarged gland on the other, and when symptoms of strangulation became urgent, it was the gland that was considered to be the most pressing,and it was selected for the opera- tion. I recollect two cases which occurred nearly at the same time ; one in which there was a very minute hernia at the left groin, which had been regarded as a swelled gland, and the patient died of the effects of its stran- gulation ; the other a case of pure peritoneal inflammation, in which the patient happened to have a swollen gland in the groin, which was actually cut down upon and exposed, but the operation did not much injury, for the patient * Op. citat. p. 83. t This curious case occurred in the Meath Hospi- tal in the summer of 1835. | I use this term in the sense hitherto employed, not implying perfect strangulation. subsequently recovered. It has been said that a diagnosis can be established by attention to the following circumstances. The hernia fol- lows on some sudden exertion, on a blow or a fall, and appears suddenly and at once; whereas the gland in the commencement is very small, perhaps like a moveable kernel, and increases slowly and by degrees. Besides, this diagnostic will be greatly assisted if there is a chancre or other sore to account for the irri- tation and inflammation of the gland; but on the other hand the hernia does not always- assume its given size at once, it is often so small at the beginning that the patient is not aware of its existence, and so far from appear- ing suddenly after a violent exertion it may have been present for months without being perceived. The hernia receives an impulse from coughing or sneezing, and retires or be- comes smaller in the recumbent posture, which are not observed to happen with the gland ; but then an enlarged gland may be complicated with a hernia, and the symptoms so mixed and confused that a diagnosis may be very difficult. It is said that a gland maybe moved about and withdrawn from its situation in a slight degree, and if it can there is no great danger of mis- taking it; but when it has arrived at the size or occupies the place which could make it resem- ble a hernia, then it does not admit of being moved under the fascia, and the diagnosis is almost impossible. Fortunately, a crural hernia does not often consist of omentum, but when it does there is nothing more likely to exhibit the characters of a gland in a state of chronic dis- ease, and I know not how the two cases can be accurately distinguished. Here the physical evidence derived from a gentle percussion (as already noticed) is utterly and completely valueless. Lumbar or psoas abscess is another affection that may be confounded with femoral hernia, and Mr. Colles states that he had known the mistake to have been committed. These diseases resemble each other in the following circum- stances. Both present very nearly in the same situation at the bend of the groin, are firm and elastic; coughing gives to each the same or a similar impulse; and there are cases on record in which psoas abscess disappeared under pres- sure or by the patient assuming the recumbent posture. Yet I think the two cases not very difficult of distinction. Psoas abscess is a dis- ease of youth; it does not often occur in the adult except as a critical abscess after fever, or in connexion with caries and curvature of the spine, in either of which cases the collateral circumstances will point itout; whereas femoral hernia is the disease of married women, and of course will not be likely to occur at the same period of life with the abscess. A sense of fluctuation is generally perceptible in psoas abscess; not so with hernia. The abscess is preceded by pain and weight in the loins and by shivering. It is a scrofulous complaint, and there will probably be other indications of the diathesis, such as the transparent skin, the thickened upper lip, or perhaps ill-conditioned scars about the neck. Any of these symptoms