HEART. 530 posterior and inferior. The entrance of the superior cava looks downwards and forwards in the direction of the body of the auricle; the entrance of the cava inferior is directed up- wards, backwards, and inwards. These two orifices are circular, and that of the cava infe- rior is larger than that of the cava superior. The right margins of these veins are continuous with each other; the left or anterior margins are continuous with the auricle, which in fact appears at first sight to be formed by an ex- pansion of the veins; hence the term sinus venosus. Around the left margin of the en- trance of the cava superior there is a prominent band of muscular fibres; and around its right and posterior margin there is another but less prominent band placed at its angle of junction with the right margin of the inferior cava. This last band occupies the position of the sup- posed tubercle of Lower (tuberculum Loweri). The cava inferior occasionally forms a dilata- tion immediately before it enters into the au- ricle. The venae eavae have properly no valves at their entrance into the auricles.* The fossa ovalis (valvula foraminis ovalis, vestigium fo- raminis ovalis), which marks the position of the foramen ovale by which the two auricles communicated freely with each other in the foetus, is seen at the lower and right portion of the auricle, partly placed in a notch in the posterior and lower part of the fleshy portion of the septum, and partly in the upper part of the vena cava ascendens as it passes in to form the sinus venosus. The upper and anterior margins of this depression are thick and pro- jecting (annulus seu isthmus Vieusseni, columna foraminis ovalis). This was supposed by Vi- eussens to prevent the blood of the cava supe- rior from falling into the cava inferior, an effect which Lower also imagined might be produced by the tubercle which he supposed was placed at the junction of the two veins. We have already pointed out that the orifices of the two veins are placed in different directions, which is sufficient to prevent the descending column of blood falling directly upon the ascending. The posterior and lower margins of the fossa ovalis are ill-defined. The surface of the de- pression is sometimes smooth, at other times uneven and reticulated. Between the upper margin of the depression and the annulus or thickened edge of the fossa ovalis we frequently find a small slit passing from below upwards, and forming a valvular opening between the two auricles. The remains of the Eustachian valve (foraminis ovalis anterior valvula) may be seen running from the anterior and left side of the entrance of the cava inferior to the left side of the fossa ovalis, where it attaches itself to the annulus. This valve exhibits very va- rious appearances in the adult: sometimes it is very indistinctly marked, at other times it is sufficiently apparent, and much more rarely it approaches the size which it presents in foetal life. It is frequently reticulated. Its convex * The Eustachian valve cannot be considered as essentially connected with the cava inferior in the adult. margin is attached to the surface of the vein and auricle; its concave margin is free; its su- perior and convex surface looks towards the auricle, and its lower and concave surface to- wards the entrance of the vein. Placed to the left of the Eustachian valve, and between it and the upper and outer part of the base of the ventricle, is the orifice of the coronary vein. A valve (valvula Thcbesii), the free and concave margin of which is directed upwards, covers the entrance of this vein. It is sometimes im- perfect, occasionally reticulated. Instead of one coronary valve we may have two or more, one placed behind another. These two valves, viz. the Eustachian and Thebesian, are formed by a reduplicature of the lining serous mem- brane of the heart. The Eustachian valve frequently, however, contains some muscular fibres at its fixed mar- gin. A number of small openings (foramina Thebesii) may be seen on the inner surface of the auricle, some of which lead into depres- sions ; others are the orifices of small veins. The muscular fibres projecting from the ante- rior and outer surface, already alluded to, pass vertically from the auricle to the edges of the auriculo-ventricular opening. These, from their supposed resemblance to the teeth of a comb, are termed musculi pectinati. Smaller bun- dles cross among the larger, giving the inner surface at this part a reticulated appearance. At the places where the transverse fibres are deficient, the outer and inner serous mem- branes of the heart lie in close contact. In the floor or base of the auricle there is a large oval opening leading into the ventricle (right au- riculo-ventricular opening), having its upper margin surrounded by a white ring. The up- per part of this ring has a yellowish colour from the auricular tendinous ring being here translucent, so that the fat lying in the auri- cular groove is seen through it. Right ventricle (ventriculus anterior, v. dex- ter, v. pulmonalis.) External surf ace.—The right ventricle occupies the anterior and inferior por- tion of the right side of the heart. Its form is pyramidal, the base looking towards the au- ricle, its apex towards the apex of the heart. Its walls are much thicker than those of the auricle. This thickness arises from the in- creased number of its muscular fibres. Internal surface.—The right ventricle may be best opened by making an incision along its right edge from the base to the apex, and another from the root of the pulmonary artery along its anterior surface near the septum to join the other at the apex. On examining the interior, its internal and posterior walls are seen to be common to it and the opposite ventricle, the anterior and external walls to belong exclusively to itself. Its posterior and internal walls are convex, its anterior and internal concave. Its posterior and external walls are decidedly shorter than its internal and anterior. Its parietes are rather thinner at their attachment to the anterior margin of the septum than along its posterior margin. They are also considerably thinner at the apex than towards the 'base. A number of fleshy columns