203 EYE. any intervening membrane, it constitutes an unexpected anomaly in the animal ceconomy. The consequences of inflammation greatly strengthen the conclusion that the cavity is lined by a membrane of the serous character. The slightest injuries or even small ulcers of the cornea are frequently accompanied by effu- sion of purulent matter into the anterior chamber, from the extension of the inflam- mation into that cavity, constituting the hy- popion or onyx of the books; and the yellow masses which appear on the iris in syphilitic iritis, whether they are abscesses, or as they are called, globules of lymph, are effusions beneath a delicate membrane, as vessels may be seen with a magnifying glass, ramifying over them. In iritis the rapidity with which adhesions are formed between the margin of the pupil and the capsule, proves that these two structures are covered by a membrane of this nature. In addition to all these facts the still more conclusive one is to be adduced, namely, that the membrane can without diffi- culty be demonstrated on the back of the iris, as I have stated in speaking of that part of the organ, and as it is represented in Jig. 127, where the fold of membrane stained with black pigment is seen turned down from that structure. In the preceding pages I have availed my- self of whatever valuable and appropriate facts in comparative anatomy I found calculated to illustrate or explain the structure of the human eye. There are, however, two organs in other animals which do not exist even in the most imperfect or rudimental state in the human subject—the pecten or marsupium nigrum in birds, and the choroid gland or choroid muscle in fishes. Of the pecten.—This organ is called pecten from its folded form bearing some resemblance to a comb, and marsupium nigrum from its resemblance in the eye of the ostrich to a black purse, according to the anatomists of the French Academy, who compiled the collection of memoirs on comparative anatomy. The organ is obviously a screen projected from the bottom of the eye forward toward the crys- talline lens, and, consequently, received into a corresponding notch or wedge-shaped hollow in the vitreous humour; it appears to be of the same vascular structure as the choroid, and is deeply stained with the black pigment, which renders it perfectly opaque and imper- vious to light. The annexed figure, from the work of D. W. Sommerring, represents it in the eye of the golden eagle. Fig. 128. Fig 127. It is composed of a delicate membrane, highly vascular, folded exactly like the plaits of a fan, and when removed with sharp scissors from the bottom of the eye, and its free margin cut along the edge so as to allow the folds to be pulled open, it may be spread out into a strip of continuous riband-shaped membrane, as seen in Jig. 129, from a paper of Sir E. Home's in the Philosophical Transactions for 1822. Fig. 129. The first account I find of it is by Petit in the Mem. de 1'Acad. Roy. 1735. He says it is a trapezium or trapezoid, five lines long at the base, and three lines and a half deep, com- posed of parallel fibres, and that a fine trans- parent filament runs from the anterior superior angle to the capsule of the crystalline lens, not easily seen on account of its transparency, and that sometimes the angle itself is attached to the capsule near its margin. Haller, in his work " Sur la formation du coeur dans le HP poulet," describes it as follows:—" It is a black membrane folded at very acute angles, as the paper of a fan, upon which transparent vessels are expanded; it generally resembles the ciliary processes. It originates from the sclerotic in the posterior part of the eye by a serrated line, pierces the choroid, retina, and vitreous humour to attach itself to the side of the capsule of the crystalline, very near the corona ciliaris. The posterior extremity is broad, and the anterior narrows till it becomes