593 HEART. over a wider surface at this their upper in- sertion. I have been more particular in describing this part of the heart, as this ar- rangement of the fibres appears to me to be intimately connected with the production of the tilting motion of the heart. The fibres which occupy the upper part of the anterior surface of the left ventricle, as well as those occupying the upper part of the posterior surface (nearer the base than those bands already described as passing from the ante- rior surface), partly dip into the interior of the left ventricle as they wind round it, partly pass in at the posterior longitudinal groove to assist in forming the septum, while other strong bands, more particularly near the base, cross this groove and dip into the interior of the right ventricle. In the human heart I have stripped off pretty strong superficial bundles from the upper part of the posterior surface of the left ventricle over the posterior longitudinal groove, and over the surface of the right ventricle as far as the anterior longitu- dinal fissure, into which they dipped. In stripping off the fibres from the posterior and anterior surface of the right ventricle at this stage of the dissection, part of them disap- pear in their course around the ventricle, where they dip in to assist in forming the interior; others proceed as far as the anterior groove before they dip inwards; while part of the fibres which arise from the conus arteriosus cross the upper part of the anterior fissure upon the anterior surface of the left ventricle, where they pass into the interior of the left ventricle. These fibres, crossing the anterior surface of the right ventricle, and which dip in at the anterior fissure, form the inner sur- face of the septum of the right ventricle. On tracing those fibres which dip inwards at so many different points, they are observed to rise upwards to the tendinous rings either directly or indirectly through the medium of the chorda tendinese. In following the fibres in this man- ner we perceive the intimate connexion that exists between the two ventricles, and that their contraction must be simultaneous. We also see that comparatively few fibres cross the anterior longitudinal groove except near the base, while large bundles of fibres cross the posterior groove. When these fibres crossing the two grooves have been torn away, the two ventricles become detached from each other. By this time the apices of both ventricles have been opened. On examining the deeper fibres (which oc- cupy that part of the heart near the base), they are seen to form a series of curved bands, of one of which fig. 275 is a representation. These bands are imbricated, the lower disap- pearing by its internal extremity below the higher, so as to be inserted by that extremity into the tendinous rings at a point more in- ternal than the corresponding extremity of the higher bands. Some of these bands are com- mon to both ventricles, others belong exclu- sively to one. The fibres of the right ventricle become very complicated where they form the eonus arteriosus and fleshy pons between the VOL. II. Fig. 275. pulmonary artery and right auriculo-ventricular orifice. The fibres of the left ventricle are stronger and coarser than those of the right ventricle, while those of the conus arteriosus are still firmer than those on the lower part of the right ventricle.* " There do not occur in any part of the heart cellular sheaths or ten- dinous aponeuroses dividing bundles of fibres as separate muscular fasciculi. Although a complex it is not a compound muscle, and does not consist of a number of distinct bellies or heads. The only thing approaching to this structure are the column-ae and a strong mus- cular stay between the peripheral and septal wall of the pulmonic ventricle, and the re- ticulated texture on the inside of the ventricles, much more conspicuous in man than in oxen." " Many fibres are attached to each other by agglutination or in a manner not easily under- stood." " Many fibres bifurcate, and the di- vided fibres follow different directions : or two fibres from different parts approximate, and at last are united and proceed as one fibre. I am doubtful if this can be considered as a tendinous point of union of all three. These points of union are often arranged in one line so as to give some appearance of a pennated muscle, but the tendinous points, if they exist, do not adhere to form membranes or strings. This bifurcation is very evident in the connection of the septal with the peripheral walls of the heart."f The auricles are formed by two sets of fibres, a superficial and a deep. The arrangement of these two sets of fibres does not follow the same laws as those of the ventricles. The su- perficial layer (fig. 276, a a, fig. 277, a a), surrounds the base of the auricles, and is of unequal height and thickness. It is broader on the anterior and narrow on the posterior surface, more particularly on the posterior and outer part of the right. It extends upwards towards their superior edge on the anterior surface, and on the posterior surface of the left as far as the inferior pulmonary veins. It is very thin, particularly on the outer and posterior part of the right auricle. In its course round the auricles the fibres diverge to enclose the appendices, and the orifices of the * Dr. Duncan has given a very minute descrip- tion of the fibres of this and other parts of the heart, which are ranch too long for insertion here. He lias also given a very accurate and minute de- scription of the bone in the heart of the ox. t Dr. Duncan. 2 n.