ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 783 has frequently examined, {fig. 308,) the thigh, leg, and foot were by no means inverted, the ordinary aspect of the front of the femur, patella, &c. was directed as much forwards as it naturally is; the shortening and other signs of luxation upwards on the dorsum ihi existed, and, in consequence of the emaciated state of the limb, the relative position of the head and neck of the femur, above adverted to, was easily recognized, when the hand was laid upon the head of the bone, and a strong movement of rotation outward was communicated to the mal- formed extremity. We do not mean to assert that in all cases this relative position of the head and neck of the femur will be found to exist; in this, as in other congenital defects, much variety may be expected to be found. When in these cases the soft parts are removed, the bones of the pelvis present appearances which are remark- able enough, although we believe that these appearances have heretofore escaped the obser- vation of anatomists, who seem to have confined their attention to the abnormal condition of the head of the os femoris and the acetabulum. The anterior spines of the ilium, particularly the inferior, we have usually found to be directed very much inwards, towards each other (fig. 307); the external iliac fossa to be more convex, and the internal iliac fossa more concave than usual: beneath the anterior inferior spine we no- tice a deep groove directed outwards, through which the united tendon and fibres of the psoas and iliacus pass to the lesser trochanter of the femur, which process is always in these cases placed so much behind as well as above its nor- mal situation. The sub-pubic angle is remark- ably obtuse, the rami of the pubes and ischia are very oblique, and the tuberosities of the ischia greatly everted. Fig. 307. Many of these which we would call charac- teristic features of the double congenital defect now under consideration have heretofore escaped the notice of all those who have written on " the original luxation" of the hip-joint. San- difort in his Museum Anatomicum has, how- ever, given a delineation of a pelvis belonging to a subject in which he says both hip-joints were found dislocated: what this author has there drawn was probably not understood in his day, but any one who has seen many spe- cimens of the deformity we are now endea- vouring to describe, will agree with us, we are sure, in considering Plate lxiv a true repre- sentation of congenital luxation in both hip- joints. When only one of the hip-joints is affected we find a lateral curvature of the spine to exist, and the bones of the pelvis to be in a state of atrophy on the malformed side. The portions of the os pubis and ischium which circum- scribe the thyroid foramen are generally long and slender, and the tuberosity of the is- chium is at a greater distance from the sym- physis of the pubis on the malformed than on the opposite side. Many of the anatomical characters we have here stated may be supposed to be the gradual result of causes acting from early infancy on bones as yet soft and cartilaginous. The weight of the body so constantly acting unfavourably on badly-formed bones and over-distended liga- ments, the efforts of muscles by their repeated exertions endeavouring to supply the defici- encies in the ligaments and in the articular sur- faces of the bones, are so many causes which must act on and alter the direction of the head and neck of the femur, distort the tuberosities of the ischia, and draw towards the middle line the spines of the ilium; but we may inquire does the first fault in these cases consist in the arrest of development in the bones? in the muscles? or should we look to the nervous system for the primitive source of these intra- uterine defects ? These are inquiries which can- not, we believe, in the present state of our know- ledge, be satisfactorily replied to. Andral re- marks that in almost all cases in which one of the cerebral hemispheres is atrophied we find the limbs of the opposite side less developed than natural; but he does not venture to ex- press an opinion as to whether the imperfect de/elopment of the brain is the cause of the malformed extremity, or the repose and want of use of the latter the reflected cause of the atrophy of the brain. No doubt we have, in one solitary instance already quoted,* shewn that a congenital malformation of the left hip- joint coincided with a deficiency of the cerebral convolutions of the right hemisphere of the brain, but this coincidence we have reason to believe must be exceedingly rare. Some surgeons of eminence, whose opinions must have considerable weight with the pro- fession, have stated it to be their belieff that " a simple paralytic condition of the muscles of the lower extremity, as a consequence of the irritation from teething arising during infancy," is the starting point of disease in these cases, * Dr. Hutton's case, Dublin Journal, volume viii t See Lancet for 1825-6.