EDENTATA. 53 and the ponderous rhinoceros of the present world. There is still another very interesting animal, the account of whose osteology I have not in- termixed with that of the other Edentata, be- cause it is as yet but little known, and because its peculiarities are particularly interesting. This is the Chlamyphorus truncatus (fig- 38) of Dr.Harlam, of which I have the opportunity of animals belonging to the same order. To the Echidna and Ornithorynchus it is also similar in the first bone of the sternum, and in the bony articulations as well as the dilated con- necting plates of the true and false ribs. " In the form of the lower jaw, and in other points equally obvious, the Chlamyphorus ex- hibits characters to be found in some species of Ruminant ia and Pachydermuta. On Skeleton of the CMamyplwrus truncatus. offering a very correct figure, for which I am indebted to the kindness of my friend Mr. Yarrell. This very remarkable animal was discovered in the interior of Chili, burrowing like the mole, and like that animal residing principally underground. The detail of its organization will be found, as given by Mr. Yarrell, in the third volume of the Zoolo- gical Journal, to which I refer. The general results of that gentleman's observations are as follow : " It has much less real resemblance to the mole, Talpa Europea, than its external form and subterranean habits would induce us to expect. In the shortness and great strength of the legs, and in the articulation of the claws to the first phalanges of the toes, it is similar; but in the form of the bones of the anterior extre- mity, as well as in the compressed claws, it is perfectly different; nor do the articulations of the bones nor the arrangement of the muscles, allow any of the lateral motion so conspicuous in the mole. The hinder extremities of the Chlamyphorus are also much more powerful. "It resembles the Brady pus tridactylus in the form of the teeth, and in the acute descending process of the zygoma, but here all comparison with the Sloth ceases. " The skeleton of the Chlamyphorus will be found to resemble that of the Armadillo (Dasypi species plures) more than any other known quadruped. In the peculiar ossification of the cervical vertebrae; in possessing the sesamoid bones of the feet; in the general form of all the bones, except those of the pelvis, as well as in the nature of the external covering, they are decidedly similar; they differ however in the form and appendages of the head, in the com- position and arrangement of the coat of mail, and particularly in the posterior truncated ex- tremity and tail. " There is a resemblance to be perceived in the form of some of the bones of the Chlamy- phorus to those of the Oryctcropus capensis and Murmecophaga jubata, as might be expected in this sketch of its relations it is unnecessary to dilate. Its near affinity to the genera Dasy- pus and Tatusia however is so obvious that there can be no doubt of the propriety of con- sidering it as belonging to the same family of the order; whilst its relation to the mole can of course only be considered as one of analogy, in which respect it offers many interesting characters." Digestive organs.—In the character of these organs there is no less diversity between the Turdigrada and the Edentata proper than in the osteology already described. The former, essentially herbivorous, yet living principally upon the young succulent leaves which clothe the extremities of the branches, have the teeth formed for bruising this kind of nourishment, and an articulation of the lower jaw which allows of a degree of motion commensurate with the object. The teeth consist of a cylinder of bone enclosed within a simple case of enamel, but without any of the convolutions of these two substances which characterize the structure of these organs in the Ruminantia and other graminivorous animals. They are in fact the most simple which are found in any of the Mammifera. There is a single canine on each side above and below, both in the Unau, but none in the Ai. In one form of the Armadillos, the genus Dasypus as now restricted, there are two in- cisive teeth in the upper and four in the lower jaw, and sixteen molares in each. In the allied genus Tatusia there are no incisive or canine teeth, and the molares are even rather more numerous, and in the Priodonta Gigas there are no less than fifty in the upper and forty-eight in the lower jaw. These are all simple, and formed for crushing insects. The stomach in the Sloths is very remarkably formed. In the Brady pus didactylus (Jig. 39) it is double. The first is large and rounded, con- tracted posteriorly, and produced into a conical appendix, which is doubled from the left to the right, and its cavity is separated from that