BONES OF THE FOOT. 339 required for prehension have the inferior seg- ments of all four extremities organised as hands, and are thence denominated Quadrnmanous. The most.elevated part of the foot is at its posterior part, where it contributes to form the ankle-joint; thence it inclines forwards, gra- dually expanding .transversely, and presenting a more or less convex' surface from behind forwards. This is the dorsum pedis, the instep. The inferfo.r surface likewise expands as it proceeds forward's. It js slightly concave in the transverse direction, and more- manifestly so in the antero-posterior one ; this latter, how- ever, varies in a degree proportionate to the convexity of the dorsum'. - This is the planta pedis, the sole. The internal edge of the foot corresponds to the great toe, the external edge to the little toe, the anterior to the ends of-the toes,'and the posterior extremity of the foot is formed by the os calcis. I. Tarsus (Germ, die Fusswurzel).—Nearly the posterior half of the foot is occupied by the tarsus, which is arranged in the form of an arch, convex superiorly, on the highest point of which rests the weight of the leg. Seven bones enter into the' formation of the tarsus; they are arranged in two sets or rows. The posterior row is formed by the astragalus and os calcis, the anterior row by the os naviculare, the os cuboideum, and the three cuneiform bones. Through the medium of the first two bones of the anterior row that row is articulated with the posterior. 1. Astragalus {ocar^aya/Koq, tet^w^o?, os ba- listic, talus; Fr. Vastrugale ; Germ, das Knoch- elbein oder Sprungbcin).—This bone is situated between the tibia and the os calcis, and has the navicular bone in front of it. In point of size it ranks second among the tarsal bones, the os calcis being first. The astragalus is commonly divided into three parts for the purposes of description, viz. the head, neck, and body. The head is that convex portion which forms the anterior part of the bone, and which is entirely articular. This smooth, oval, articular head is adapted to the posterior concavity of the navicular bone. The aspect of this surface is forwards, inwards, and slightly downwards. On the inferior part of the head we notice another articular facet, planiform, situated internally, and generally con- tinuous with the articular surface last described. By means of this facet the astragalus moves on a corresponding surface on the upper and anterior part of the os calcis. The head of the astragalus is connected to the body by a narrow contracted portion called the neck, which is rough on all its surfaces, giving insertion to ligaments and perforated by numerous foramina for the transmission of vessels. The external side of the neck pre- sents a remarkable excavation, which affords insertion to and contributes to bound a space for the lodgement of a strong ligament which passes between the astragalus and os calcis. All that portion which is behind the neck constitutes what is called the body, on which we notice five surfaces, a. The superior sur- face forms an articular trochlea, convex from before backwards, and slightly concave trans- versely; it articulates with.the inferior extremity of the,tibia:* immediately in front of it there is a roughness of very limited extent, which affords insertion to ligamentous fibres, b. The posterior surface is almost wholly occupied by a well-marked groove, which passes obliquely downwards and in wards, and is destined to lodge the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. c. The external surface is occupied by a triangular facet, whose base is direct upwards and is con- tinuous with the articular part of the superior surface of the body ; this facet articulates with the fibula. It is bounded below and behind by a rough portion for ligamentous insertion. d. "The internal surface is also articular in its upper half for the adaptation of the inner malleolus: it, too, is triangular, and by its "base is continuous with the superior surface. Below this internal malleolar facet the bone is rough and irregular, and here- the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint is inserted. Lastly, the inferior surface is occupied almost entirely by a concave articular facet, oval, with its long axis directed from within outwards and forwards; this facet is articulated with a corre- sponding one upon the os calcis. Immediately in front of it there is a deep and narrow depres- sion which separates it from an oval planiform facet for articulation with tire sustentaculum of the os calcis. ' /i^J- '■— 2. Os calcis (ir-re^a, a-y.iXn;; Fr. le calca- ncum, os du talon;, Germ, das Fcrsenbein ; the heel-bone).—This is the k^ges-t bone of the tarsus; it occupies the most posterior part of the foot, and is situated immediately under- neath the astragalus, of which it constitutes the principal support. Its greatest extent is from before backwards. It is somewhat flattened on the sides: its direction is horizontal, the foot in standing resting upon the most posterior part of its inferior surface. This horizontal direc- tion of the heel-bone is one of the arguments which anatomy affords in support of the asser- tion that the erect posture is natural to man. We notice six surfaces upon this bone. a. The superior surface, or that upon which the astralagus rests. On it we observe in front three articular facets, separated from each other by distinct intervals: the first or smallest is situated at the anterior edge of the surface and at its internal angle, and is articulated with the facet on the inferior part of the head of the astragalus; it is not constant. The second is posterior and internal to the last, separated from it by a rough depression about a quarter of an inch in extent. This is oval, slightly con- cave, and is marked upon a projecting portion of the bone which overhangs the anterior part of the internal surface, and which is known under the name of processus interims, or sus- tentaculum cervicis tali of Albinus; it supports and is articulated with a corresponding facet on the under surface of the neck of the astra- galus. A narrow groove on the outside of the * See further description in the article Ankle- Joint. z 2