ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 811 much agitated; Desault, Platna, and John Bell long ago expressed their opinion that a fracture within the capsular ligament would not admit of union by callus. Sir A. Cooper in his Treatise on Dislocations and Fractures (p. 127) says, " In all the examinations which I have made of transverse fractures of the cervix femo- ris entirely within the capsular ligament, I have never met one in which a bony union had taken place, or which did not admit of motion of one bone upon the other. To deny its possibi- lity and to maintain that no exception to the general rule can take place would be presump- tuous, especially when we consider the varieties of direction in which a fracture may occur, and the degree of violence by which it may have been produced; as, for example, when the fracture is through the head of the bone and there is no separation of the fractured ends, or when the bone is bioken without its periosteum, and the reflected ligament which covers its neck torn, or when it is broken obliquely, partly within and partly externally to the cap- sular ligament; but all I wish to be understood to say is, that if it ever does happen, it is an extremely rare occurrence, and that I have not met a single example of it." Sir A. Cooper's opinions, when they were published, particularly in Paris, excited as- tonishment, and many observations were made in the clinical lectures and works of the day upon the supposed error of the doctrine, that the intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone was not susceptible of bony consoli- dation. Messrs. Roux, Dupuytren, and others contended that they had treated many cases of the intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone successfully, and that bony consoli- dation had been effected, and besides shewed to their classes what they considered as decided examples of such union of this fracture. They did not content themselves by referring to living cases, because these were likely to be ques- tioned, but they produced various specimens obtained by post-mortem examinations of per- sons who had recovered from the effects of the fracture, but had died of other disease. Some of these specimens were examined by Mr. Crosse, and some were sent to London to Sir A. Cooper, but they failed to convince either Mr. Crosse or Sir Astley that they were true instances of the infra-capsular fracture consoli- dated by bone. We may say the same of some preparations in the museum of the Royal Col- lege of Surgeons, London, which were supposed to be proofs of a bony union of the neck of the thigh-bone subsequent to a fracture within the capsular ligament, but says Mr. Wilson, " I have attentively examined these two preparations, and cannot perceive one decisive proof in either of the bone having been actually fractured." One of these cases was published in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal as an example of united fracture. The writer has known many speci- mens adduced as proofs of bony consolidation of the intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, which, upon examination, were found to have been the result of disease. The neck of the thigh-bone, we know, is greatly shortened when the hip-joint is the seat of that abnormal change which we have stated to be the result of chronic rheumatic arthritis, but in this case the previous symptoms, the history of the case, and when these cannot be collected, the state of the acetabulum and other appear- ances, sufficiently point out the difference. Again, the effect of senile degeneration of the cervix femoris is very liable to be mistaken for an united intra-capsular fracture. In this, however, the history of the case, the co-existence of the same condition on both sides, the pene- tration of the interior of the attenuated cellular structure by an oily medulla, and other charac- ters of the senile degeneration, will serve to prevent false conclusions. Lastly, we have also frequently known specimensof the impacted frac- ture, where the whole cervix has been firmly driven into the substance of the great trochanter, mistaken for examples of bony union of the in- tra-capsular fracture. The quantity of callus that is in these cases added to the great and lesser trochanters, which encloses the impacted neck of the bone, is calculated on a superficial exami- nation to induce erroneous conclusions, but a section of the bone, as represented in fig. 320, will explain the true nature of the case. Various cases have been laid before the pub- lic and read before different learned societies, which have been considered as very decided evidences of bony consolidation of the intra- capsular fracture of the neck of the femur. Case 1.—In the year 1827 Mr. Langstaff presented to the Medico-Chirurgical Society of London a specimen of what he considered to have been an intra-capsular fracture united by bone. The case was that of a woman who was 50 years of age when the fracture occurred. She was confined for nearly twelve months to bed after the injury, and during the remainder of her life, that is, for ten years, she walked on crutches. On dissection it was found that the principal part of the neck of the femur was absorbed, and the head and remaining portion of the neck were united principally by bone, and partly by a cartilaginous substance. The capsular ligament was immensely thickened and embraced the joint very closely, the carti- laginous covering of the head of the bone and acetabulum had suffered partial absorption, the internal surface of the capsular ligament was coated with lymph. On making a section of the bone, it was evident that there had been a fracture of the neck within the capsular liga- ment, and that union had taken place by osseous and cartilaginous media. With a view of ascer- taining whether there was real osseous union the bone was boiled many hours, which discoloured it, but by destroying all the animal matter it satisfactorily proved the extent and firmness of the osseous connexion, and the vacant spaces occupied with cartilaginous matter. These appearances are represented by a drawing made shortly after boiling.* Case 2.—Dr Brulalour, surgeon to the hos- pital at Bourdeaux, sent to London the parti- * Vol. xiii. of the Society's Transactions.