877 INSECTA. this insect, which frequently remains thus suspended more than ten or twenty hours be- fore the transformation takes place. During this time the four anterior segments of the larva become greatly enlarged, and the seg- ments assume a curved direction, occasioned by the contraction, or shortening of the muscles of the under surface of those segments, which are repeatedly slowly extended and shortened, as if the insect were in the act of laborious respiration. This generally takes place at short intervals during the two hours immediately pre- ceding the change, and increases in frequency as that period approaches. When the period has arrived, the skin bursts along the dorsal part of the third segment, or meso-thorax, and is extended along the second and fourth, while the coverings of the head separate into three pieces. The insect then exerts itself to the utmost to extend the fissure along the segments of the abdomen, and in the meantime pressing its body through the opening gradually with- draws its antenna and legs, while the skin, by successive contortions of the abdomen, is slip- . ped backwards and forced towards the extre- mity of the body, just as a person would slip off his glove or his stocking. The efforts of the insect to get entirely rid of it are then very great; it twirls itself in every direction in order to burst the skin, and when it has exerted itself in this manner for some time, twirls itself swiftly, first in one direction, then in the opposite, until at last the skin is broken through and falls to the ground, or is forced to some distance from it. The new pupa then hangs for a few seconds at rest, but its change is not yet completed. The legs and antenna, which when withdrawn from the old skin were dis- posed along the under surface of the body, are yet separate, and do not adhere together as they do a short time afterwards. The wings are also separate and very small. In a few seconds the pupa makes several slow but powerful respiratory efforts ; during which the abdominal segments become more contracted along their under surface, and the wings are much en- larged and extended along the lateral inferior surface of the body, while a very transparent fluid which facilitated the slipping off of the skin, is now diffused among the limbs, and when the pupa becomes quiet dries, and unites the whole into one compact covering.* Ex- actly the same thing occurs in the changes of the sphinx. The limbs at first are all separate, each one inclosed in its distinct sheath, but within a very short period after the change they become agglutinated together by the fluid effused between them, and form the solid ex- terior of the pupa case. The body of the insect is now divided into three distinct regions, head, thorax, and abdomen. The first step towards this division is the contraction which takes place in all the longitudinal and diagonal muscles of the body, soon after the larva (Jig. 364) has ac- quired its full size, by means of which each seg- ment of the insect forms a slight intussusception, the anterior margin of one segment being drawn * See also Entomologist's Text-book, p. 208. Fig. 364. Section of larva of Sphinx ligustri; 1 to 13, (dorsal surface) segments; 1 to 12, (ventral surface J ganglia • a, dorsal vessel; b, its lateral muscle; c d, oesophagus a?id stomach; e, ilium j f, hepatic vessels ; g, caecum coli; h, colon and rectum ; i, testis ; * * * thoracic legs; t f t abdominal legs. Newport, Phil. Trans. under the posterior margin of the one which im- mediately precedes it. This occurs in all the segments which form the abdominal region of the future moth, the nine posterior ones of the larva. When the period of changing into the pupa state has arrived, a much greater shortening takes place in the muscles of the fifth and sixth segments, and in some insects this is carried to so greatan extent that the whole body becomes con- stricted in the fifth segment like an hour-glass, and is thus divided into two distinct regions, thorax and abdomen. The same change takes place also in the muscles of the first and second segment, by means of which the region of the head is divided from that of the thorax (Jig. 365). These duplicatures of the external covering are carried to a greater extent on the under surface of the first four segments than on the upper,