707 HERMAPHRODITISM. nation of individual cases. We reserve this important subject for special consideration under a separate head, where we shall endea- vour to shew the numerous sources of error with which the observation of individual ex- amples and varieties of complex hermaphro- ditism is beset. 1. Male vesicular seminales, 4'C- superadded to organs of a female sexuul type.—In this first genus of double hermaphroditism we find two female ovaries, or bodies resembling ovaries, and an imperfect uterus co-existing with two male vesiculae seminales, which are occasion- ally accompanied also with rudiments of the vasa deferentia. One of the free-martins de- scribed by Mr. Hunter * is referable to this variety of double hermaphroditism. The ex- ternal genital organs and mammae resembled those of the cow, but were smaller in size. The vagina, beyond the opening of the urethra into it, was, with the uterus itself, impervious. The imperfect uterus divided into two horns, at the end of which were the ovaria. On each side of the uterus there was an interrupted vas deferens broken off in several places ; and be- tween the bladder and vagina these vasa de- ferentia terminated in two vesiculae seminales. The ducts from the vesiculae and the vasa de- ferentia opened into the vagina. In this in- stance we have all the female organs present, but imperfect in their development; and at the same time there is superadded to them a tubu- lar structure, formed, according to Mr. Hun- ter's opinion, of the male vesiculae seminales and vasa deferentia. We have met with a free-martin cow, in which upon dissection we found an arrange- ment of sexual parts very similar to that described in the preceding case. The uterus, however, though small, was pervious for a distance of some inches above the vagina; and at the abdominal end of each blind Fal- lopian tube there was a dilated sac of con- siderable size lined by peritonaeum, and open- ing into the abdominal cavity by a small orifice. These sacs we considered as abortive attempts at the formation of the fimbriated extremities. The imperfect bodies which we considered as testicles were placed near the cavities which we mention, in the situation of the ovaries. They were small in size, and of an oblong shape. On a section being made of them, they shewed internally a kind of dense ho- mogeneous yellow tissue, dotted or crossed with strongly marked white lines. The vasa deferentia could be traced along each side of the uterus in the form of broken dense cords. The vesiculae seminales were large and partially hollow, and near them on each side there was an oblong body of considerable size, having the appearance of Cowper's glands. The tubes from them, and from the vesiculae seminales, opened near the os tincae into a vagina of nearly the usual size. 2. An imperfect female uterus, &;c. super- added to a sexuul organization essentially male. * See An. Kcon. p. 64. Mr.Well's free-martin. —In the cases included under this second division of double hermaphroditism there exist a male testicle, or testicles, vasa deferentia, and vesiculae seminales, along with a female uterus. The uterus occupies its normal situ- ation between the bladder and rectum. It is sometimes defectively developed, and of a membranous structure; and occasionally it is not provided with Fallopian tubes, or, in the quadruped, with comua. The cavity of the uterus communicates with a vagina that either opens in its usual situation externally, or, as happens more frequently, joins the male ure- thra. In some cases the vagina is wanting, and the uterus opens directly into the canal of the urethra. Several cases of sexual malformation in the ram, goat, and dog referable to this variety of double hermaphroditism have been described by different authors; and various analogous instances have now also been observed in the human subject. In a lamb described and delineated by Mr. Thomas,* all the external parts were male, but the scrotum was divided or hypospadic. In- ternally there were two perfect male testicles in the situation of the ovaries, with their epidi- dymes, vasa deferentia, and vesiculae seminales; and a well-formed two-horned uterus furnished with its usual ligaments, and with Fallopian tubes that ran up and terminated in a tortuous convoluted manner upon the testicles. The body of the uterus possessed the common rugose structure, but the horns were lined by a smooth membrane without their usual glandular bodies internally. At the anterior extremity of the fundus uteri, a thick semilunar valve, which seemed to correspond to the os tincae, passed across and hardly allowed a fine probe to be entered over its upper edge. The vagina scarcely existed, and formed only a short smooth pouch terminating below in a cul-de- sac. The male vesiculae seminales and vasa deferentia entered the male urethra in their normal situation at the caput gallinaginis. Gurltf has described and delineated the sexual parts of a goat in which all the inter- nal male genital organs, with the exception of Cowper's glands, were found (jig. 300). There was also present an uterus (c) provided with long but narrow and curved cornua (ff), that accompanied the vasa deferentia and tes- ticles through the abdominal rings, and ended blind at the epididymes. The testicles lay externally upon the udder, which was of con- siderable size. The scrotum was absent; the penis (g) was short, tortuous, and imperforate ; and there was a fissure in the perinaeum into which the urethra (/<) opened. StellatiJ has recorded an analogous case in the same animal. The male sexual organs * London Med. and Phys. Journ. vol. ii. (1799), p. 1, with a good drawing of the malformed organs of generation. t Lehibuch der Pathol. Anat. Bd. ii. s. 195. pi. ix. fig. 1 & "2, and pi. xxii. fig. 3 & 4. t Atti del Real Instit. d'incoragg. alle Sc. Nat. Naples, torn. iii. p. 380. 3 A 2