446 GENERATION. part of largely convoluted veins of conside- rable size; but these veins are differently ar- ranged in the last-mentioned of these parts from what they are in the two first: first in this respect, that in the glans and corpus spon- giosum urethra the tortuous veins are less dilated and more branched than in the corpora cavernosa; so that it is more easy to trace their continuity with one another; and, second, that in the corpora cavernosa the dilated veins are bound together and crossed in various direc- tions by ligamentous fibres and bands,—an arrangement which, while it tends to obscure the connection of one vein with another, and causes their tortuosities to appear rather like cells than continuous tubes, at the same time serves to prevent their distension beyond a certain point during erection, and thus adds to the rigidity occasioned by the accumu- lation of blood in the venous convolutions or sinuses. The mode of union of the arteries with the veins in the erectile tissue of the penis is not yet well known; for, although the arteries of the penis have been traced to very small rami- fications, corresponding small branches of the veins have not been observed, and conse- quently anatomists are nearly in complete ig- norance of the nature of the small vessels of communication or capillaries of the erectile tissue, and are left, to conjecture only respect- ing the means of passage for the blood from the small arteries into the cells formed by the convoluted veins. Professor Miiller, of Berlin,* has lately made an important step in the in- vestigation of this point of structure, by the discovery of a remarkable set of little dilated and ramified branches appended to the termi- nal twigs of the arteries distributed on the sides and interspaces of the venous cavities in the penis of man and several animals; but so tar as we are aware, the exact mode of nassage of the blood from these helicine arteues, as they have been termed from their tortuosity, has not been detected, and the operation of these arterial branches in modi- fying the circulation, or their relation to the process of erection, has not been pointed out; it appears probable that so peculiar a piece of mechanism must have some connection with this process. (See Erectile TissuEand Pen is; also Figs. 98 and 99, p. 146, vol. ii.) The principal exciting causes of erection may be referred to the following heads:— 1. Mental emotions relating to sex: in ani- mals, odour of the genital organs, more espe- cially in the breeding season. 2. Nervous affections. Epilepsy, convul- sions. Inflammations of the brain, and simi- lar affections. 3. Warmth or other local irritation of the penis and sexual organs. 4. A full state of the testicles, their excre- tory ducts or vesiculse seminales. * See his Archiv. fur Physiol. &c. 1835, pp. 27 and 220, and his paper, " Ueber die organiscben Nerven der erectilen mannlichen Geschlectsor- gane," in the Abhand. d. k. Akad. d. Wissensch. v. Berlin fur 1835. 5. Irritation of the parts in the vicinity of the penis, as of the urinary bladder by stone, riding, cantharides, savine, alcohol, &c; of the rectum by strong purgatives; and, in short, every thing which irritates or determines a greater than usual flow of blood to the pelvic viscera or sexual organs. 6. Ligatures, and all other causes of ob- struction to the return of blood from the penis. Erection is an involuntary act; for we have neither the power directly to produce it, nor, when it occurs, to recall the state of collapse. When the penis is in the state of erection, however, the rigidity may be increased by the voluntary exertion of the ischio-cavernosi or erectores penis, and the acceleratores urinae muscles; and no doubt also by the action of the muscles lately described by Dr. Houston* under the name of compressores vena dorsalis penis, to the contraction of which, and the consequent impediment produced to the return of blood from the penis, that anatomist has attributed in a great measure the erection of the organ. The turgescence of erection begins at the root of the penis in the corpora cavernosa, and at the glans in the corpus spongiosum. The glans and spongy body of the urethra may, in general, be made to collapse by pressure, but the corpora cavernosa cannot unless the erectile action itself ceases. The arteries of the penis appear to beat with more than usual force during erection. The phenomenon of erection is not confined to the penis or such parts as are provided with muscles, but occurs in all situations where that arrangement of the bloodvessels consti- tuting the erectile tissue is to be found. The nipple of the mamma, the cock's comb and wattles, and the turkey's neck are all affected in a similar way; and, although some circum- stances seem to shew that erection may in some instances be promoted by muscular con- traction, we are inclined to adopt the opinion that it is mainly due to an altered condition of the bloodvessels themselves, and that it may in some degree be analogous to the dila- tation of the bloodvessels which occurs in blushing, and some other local determinations of blood.f The large size of the numerous nerves which accompany the bloodvessels of the penis is also in favour of this view. In many animals the penis is furnished with a bone which adds to its rigidity. This is the case chiefly among Cheiroptera, Quadrumana, Solipeda, Digitigrada, Rodentia, Phoca, and Cetacea. We refer to the articles on Com- parative Anatomy for a description of the many varieties in the form of the penis in different animals, and their uses in the act of propa- gation. The texture of which the glans clitoridis and corpora cavernosa of that body as well as the nymphae are formed, is of an erectile kind and strictly analogous to the corresponding * Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. v. t See the article Circulation, vol. i. p.672.