INSECTA. 946 muscles of this segment, and the second is given directly to the third pair of legs. The fifth ganglion (5), which is situated at the an- terior part of the fifth, or thoracico-abdominal segment, belongs, as we shall hereafter see, to the thorax. Like the abdominal ganglia it gives off two distinct pairs of nerves, the an- terior of which crosses the smaller, and de- scends beneath the larger rectus, and is dis- tributed to the muscles which afterwards con- nect the thorax and abdomen of the perfect insect; and the second, a smaller pair, passes diagonally backwards below the third rectus, to the triangular and transverse abdominal muscles. These are the nerves of the thorax in the larva of the Sphinx. In other species there are some marked differences in then- mode of distribution. Thus, in the Cossus ligniperda, as shown by Lyonet, the first and second suboesophageal ganglia are closely ap- proximated together, and have no intervening- cords, and their nerves, consequently, pass di- agonally backwards, and not transversely, as in the Sphinx. The nerves for the future wings are not derived, as in the Sphinx, from the ganglionless parts of the cord, but from the ganglionated portion alone, and the distance between the fourth and fifth ganglia is con- siderably shortened. In the larva of the nettle butterfly, Vanessa urtica, as formerly shown by us,* the alary nerves are derived directly from the cord itself, between the second and third and third and fourth ganglia, but they do not unite, as in the Sphinx, with a nerve from the next ganglion, but only with the transverse nerves. But in some of the Bombycida, as in Odoncstis Rotatoria, we have found the same connexion to exist between the alary nerves and those of the ganglia, as in the Sphinx, and a similar union also between them and the trans- verse nerves. This is particularly interesting from its proving that three distinct branches enter into the formation of the nerves for the future wings. We have found a similar double ori- gination of the alary nerves in the vermiform larvae of Hymenoptera, as in Athalia centifolia; and Burmeister has detected a similar condition of the same nerves in the larva of one of the Coleoptera, Calosuma sycophanta, and, as we shall presently see, a similar condition exists even in some perfect insects. Burmeister, who observed these connexions of the nerves in Calosoma, and called them auxiliary connect- ing nerves, has somewhat curiously remarked that he believes they have not before been ob- served in any insect, particularly in the Lepi- doptera, in proof of which he adduces Lyonet's description and delineation of the nerves in Cossus, in which, as we ourselves have found, they certainly do not exist. The reason for this difference of manner in which nerves that are given to similar parts in insects of the same order and family originate, is a matter worthy of much consideration. Nerves of the abdomen.—All the nerves from the sixth to the terminal ganglion belong to the abdomen, and are nearly uniform both in num- * Phil. Trans. 1834. ber and distribution in the segments. Each ganglion produces one pair of large, and one of small nerves, entirely distinct from the se- ries of transverse nerves (o) that lie loosely upon the cord. It will be remembered that, according to our view of the structure of the cord and nerves, each nerve from a gangliated portion of this cord is formed of one set of fibres from the external or gangliated part, and one from the aganglionic or motor column (Jig. 400), which passes over the ganglion («), but so closely attached to it as to appear as if it formed a part of that structure. These, therefore, are quite distinct from the transverse nerves (c). The an- terior pair of these nerves from the gangliated cord pass laterally across the smaller rectus, having first received a minute branch from the transverse nerves, and, while passing beneath the larger rectus, each one gives off its first branch (p), and when passing between the second and third oblique muscles its second branch (j), which is directed forwards, and a little farther onwards its third (r), and its fourth (s), which are directed backwards. The main trunk (<) then crosses the great lateral tra- chea, and having received another filament from the transverse nerve {n), divides into two branches (t), which pass upwards between the dorsal oblique and recti muscles, and are divided into numerous ramifications. About midway across the dorsal recti some of the branches form a small plexus (u), before they are ultimately distributed to the muscles and tegument. The two first divisions of this nerve merit particular attention. The first (/>) passes backwards beneath the greater rectus, and divides into two branches. The anterior one (y) is distributed to the four oblique mus- cles, and to the external or under surface of the rectus, which, as we shall presently show, is supplied on its internal surface from the transverse nerves (/). The second division passes backwards and is given, one portion to the under surface of the smaller rectus, and the other to the great oblique, while the ter- mination of this portion (w) is continuous with a filament of the second branch of the trans- verse nerves (/). Some branches from this nerve pass between the triangular and second oblique muscles (x), and others are given to the latero-abdominal. The second branch (q) of the great moto-sensitive nerve passes be- neath the great oblique, and gives off branches to the transverse abdominal muscles (y), and the latero-abdominal (z), while another sup- plies the latero-abdominal (31) and the oblique constrictor of the spiracle (25), and then di- vides into two portions, one of which is given to the retractor valvule (27), and the other to the transverse lateral muscles (24). The divisions of this branch of the moto-sensitive nerve are particularly interesting. Before dis- secting these nerves we had supposed that the constrictor of the spiracle (25) and the retractor of the valve (21) were supplied by the transverse nerves, and hence were surprised on finding that their nerves were derived from the great moto-sensitive of the gangliated cord,