041 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HEART. 2 v VOL. II. recorded by others, whence lie has been able distinctly to prove the analogies above-men- tioned, and by which much light has been thrown upon those forms of disease. The partial dilatation of one of the cavities, or true aneurism, is by far the most com- mon of the varieties above-mentioned. In its early stage this disease consists in little more than a bulging of the wall of the ventricle or auricle in a certain direction ; as this in- creases a pouch or sac is formed, which com- municates with the heart's cavity by a more or less narrow opening. In some cases this sac does not extend beyond the external surface of the heart, nor would it be detected, were the anatomist to content himself with merely ex- amining the exterior, it is as it were lodged in the fleshy substance of the ventricular paries; but in other instances a tumour is formed pro- jecting considerably beyond the exterior. As in arterial aneurisms, the sacs frequently contain laminated coagula, and, as might be expected (i priori, the larger the cavity and the narrower its orifice of communication, the more abun- dant is this lamellar deposit. One or more aneurismal sacs may belong to the same cavity: thus, in fifty-two out of fifty-eight cases col- lected by Mr. Thurnam, only one aneurism existed in each ; but in four cases two were met with in each; in one there were three, and in another four incipient aneurisms. In two instances, Mr. Thurnam states, it is not improbable that two sacs which were originally distinct had coalesced, so as to form a single aneurism, and in another case three sacs ap- pear to have united in this way. We find the aneurismal pouches of all sizes: in nine of the cases referred to in Mr. Thurnam's memoir, the size might be compared to that of nuts; in twenty, to that of walnuts; in seven, to fowl's eggs; in fourteen, to oranges; and in nine cases, it almost or quite equalled that of the healthy heart itself. We cannot always satisfactorily ascertain what textures enter into the formation of these sacs; however, in the majority of cases, the three structures of which the heart's parietes are composed are found in the walls of these sacs; in others the muscular tissue has disappeared, atrophied probably by the pressure, and the wall is composed only of the endocardium and pericardium, and in others again the endocardium is wanting, and the muscular fibres and the pericardium are the only component elements.* In some cases the wall of the sac is strengthened by an ad- hesion formed with the loose layer of the peri- cardium. These aneurisms are always in connection with the left ventricle or left auricle; very rarely however with the latter, and never with the right cavities. In the paper already quoted from, Mr. Thurnam has collected references to fifty-eight cases of aneurism of the left ven- tricle, and eleven of the left auricle. All parts of the ventricle are liable to aneurismal dila- tation, but it occurs most frequently at the apex: next in frequency it is found at dif- * Vide Thurnam, loc. cif. p. 219. ferent points of the base; less frequently still it occurs in the lateral walls at situations in- termediate to the two last-named, and very rarely it is met with in the interventricular septum. I will give the description of auricular aneu- rism in Mr. Thurnam's words: " The dis- ease would appear,from the preparations I have inspected, and the cases which have been re- corded, to have been nearly uniformly of the diffused kind, and to have generally involved the entire sinus of the auricle. The dilated walls of the cavity are often thickened and the seat of fibro-cellular degeneration. The lining membrane is opaque, rough, and otherwise diseased, and in some cases even ossified, and is lined with fibrinous layers, very similar to those met with in arterial aneurisms. In all these cases, the lining membrane appears to have been continued into the interior of the dilated portion, which consequently merits the name true aneurism. Occasionally the dilatation is confined to the auricular appendage, which becomes extensively distended with lamellated concretions."* The false aneurism, or that resulting from rupture, must be spoken of merely as a pos- sible and probable occurrence. I know of no unequivocal example of it; but inasmuch as we must admit that partial rupture of the heart's wall may take place, we cannot deny the possibility of the production of cardiac aneurism in a manner similar to that in which arterial false aneurism is produced. Dr. Hope describes cases, which Mr. Thur- nam very aptly compares to " the dissecting aneurism." In those cases, Dr. Hope says, " steatoinatous degeneration had caused the formation of a canal from the aorta underneath one of the sigmoid valves and the internal membrane of the left ventricle." But Mr. Thurnam's explanation seems to me much more likely to be the true one. He supposes that the aneurisms had been originally formed in the ventricle, and had subsequently commu- nicated with the aorta, as a consequence of the co-existent disease of the valves of that vessel. The possibility of the formation of an aneu- rism resembling theimricose aneurism, has been likewise suggested by Mr. Thurnam, from the occurrence of aneurismal pouches in the sep- tum ventriculorum. If such an aneurism were to burst, it would establish a communication with the right ventricle, a portion of the ve- nous system—thus producing " a lesion alto- gether analogous to that which results from the wound of an artery and its accompanying vein, and to which the name of spontaneous varicose aneurism of the heart is perfectly applicable." Mr. Thurnam mentions a fourth form of aneurism which is not without its analogue in the arterial system, namely, that in which the aneurismal sac is formed by the endocardium and pericardium. This may be compared with a variety of external aneurism in which the lining membrane of the vessel protrudes through a rupture in the middle tunic, constituting a * Loc. cit. p. 245.