906 INSECTA. a similar structure of the proboscis in Eristalis. The subraentum is the part in which the flexion of the organ takes place; the mentum, as in the preceding instances, is a strong horny plate, almost closed on its upper as well as its under surface, and the ligula is horny, but terminated by soft dilatable lips. The ligula is always articulated by a distinct joint with the mentum, and appears to be constantly present in this order. In Asilus, as we have just remarked, it is strong and corneous, but in the less rapa- cious insects, as in Eristalis, and the Muscida, it is terminated by two dilated fleshy lips, which we regard as the analogues of the paraglossa (Jig. 379, * i.) In Tabanus these are exceedingly large and broad, and are widely expanded to encompass the wound made by the insect with its lancet-like mandibles in the skin of the animal it attacks. The structure of these paraglossae is curious. On their outer surface they are fleshy and muscular, to fit them to be employed as prehensile organs, while on their inner they are more soft and delicate, but thickly covered with rows of very minute stiff hairs (*** i) directed a little back- wards, and arranged closely together like the teeth of a comb. There are very many rows of these hairs on each of the paraglossae, and from their being all arranged in a similar di- rection are easily employed by the insect in scraping or tearing delicate surfaces. It is by means of this curious structure that the busy house-fly often occasions much mischief to the covers of our books by scraping off the albu- minous polish, and leaving traces of its depre- dations in the soiled and spotted appearance which it occasions on them. It is by means of these also that it teases us in the heat of summer when it alights on the hand or face to sip the perspiration as it exudes from and is condensed upon the skin. The manner in which the fluid ascends the proboscis is similar to that of its ascent in other Haustellata, it being de- pendent partly upon the sucking action exerted by the application of the proboscis, assisted by the muscular action of the paraglossae, as any one may readily convince himself on watching the motion of the parts in the common house-fly, when sipping a drop of fluid, or moistening the stolen grain of chrystallized sugar between its paraglossae. The palpi yet remain to be noticed. Those of the maxillae appear to be constant throughout the whole order. In Culex they are very con- spicuous parts, covered with hairs and as long as the proboscis; they are formed of three short basial joints and three very long ones, the fourth joint being more than twice the length of either of the others. In Tipula and Empis they are also six-jointed, but of moderate length. In Tabanus also they are very conspicuous, and appear to be formed of two short and one very long joint densely covered with hairs, and serve as a cover to the base of the proboscis. In Asilus they are short, three-jointed, and slightly hairy (Jig. 380, h), and they are equally con- spicuous in most of the Muscida and Syrphida, in which they are formed in general of two short joints and one very long one. In the common Musca they are long and club-shaped, but in Eristalis (Jig. 379, g, h) and Volucella they are long, slender, and sometimes covered with hairs. The labial palpi do not appear to exist in Diptera. Savigny believed that he had ob- served at the base of the ligula in Tabanus a pilose excrescence which he considered the analogue of the labial palpi; but although, as Mr. Newman has remarked, the spot which Savigny pointed out is exactly that at which they ought to be situated if they really did exist, we have been unable to detect them or to confirm his opinion. In Homaloptera the head resembles that of Diptera. It is rounded but flattened on its upper surface, and is so closely approximated to the anterior margin of the prothorax into a notch in which it is inserted, as to appear as if separated from it only by a suture. All the primary parts found in the head in other insects appear to be developed in some species of this order. Thus the epicranium in Oxypterum is broad, distinct, and channelled along the median line into a deep groove (Jig. 381, b), Fig. 381. 31 The upper and under surface of the head in Oxypterum. b, epicranium ; c, cornea; d, clypeus posterior ; d*, clypeus anterior; e, labrum; /, undeveloped mandibles; g, maxilla; i, labium; *, lingua.