420 ORGANS OF GENERATION. rated, they are found to be merely the blind terminations of as many seminal tubes which run from the centre to the circumference of the testicle. The seminiferous ducts arising from Testis of Frog. these perforate the investing tunic of the kidney, upon which the testis is placed, and, according to Swammerdam, terminate in the ureters, which thus perform likewise the office of the vas deferens. We have carefully repeated Swammerdam's dissection of these parts, which are represented at fig. 206. Fig. 206. Generative organs of Male Frog. a, Cloaca ; b, opening of genito-urinary canal; c, opening of bladder into cloaca; d, rectum; e, bladder ; /, testes, that of the right side in situ; g, kidneys; h, seminiferous tubes; i, tube serving both as ureter and vas deferens ; k, vesiculae seminales ; I, fatty appendages to the kidney. In other Amphibia the organization of the testis is essentially the same, but the seminal coeca, owing to their greater length, are tortuous and convoluted. The ova are impregnated in exitu by the aspersion of the seminal secretion of the male, who, firmly fixed upon the back of his mate, assists by his embraces the expulsion of the gelatinous masses in which the eggs are im- bedded. No organ of intromission, therefore, is required, and the generative ducts, both in the male and female, open by simple apertures into the cloaca. Nevertheless, in a few instances internal impregnation is effected; such is the case with Triton, Laurent, in which, although no copulation takes place, the male fluid dif- fused through the surrounding water finds its way into the genitals of the female in sufficient quantities to secure fecundation. Moreover, in the Salamander f Lacerta Salamandra) an intromission is accomplished, the male pos- sessing a rudimentary organ for that purpose ; in this latter case the eggs are even hatched in the oviduct and the young produced in the tadpole state. In the other reptiles the structure and arrangement of the generative organs is very similar; the same organization, in fact, exists through the whole class with slight modifica- tions adapted to the different forms or habits of different orders. Fig. 207. The testes are invariably double, placed symmetrically on the two sides of the body, and attached by membranous connexions to the vertebral column. On unravelling their inter- nal structure they are found to consist entirely of blind tubes enclosed in a membranous cap- sule; these seminiferous canals are much longer than in the amphibious tribes, and, conse- quently, present a tortuous arrangement, readily seen through the transparent covering of the testes (Fig. 207.) From these tubes a variable number of efferent canals proceed, which, after remaining for a short distance enclosed in a pro- longation of the tunics of the testicle, unite into a vas deferens, which is prolonged on each side to the cloaca, and there terminates at the root of the rudimentary penis. In the higher Reptilia impregnation is always effected internally, and the males are conse- quently provided with an organ of excitement, differing much in form, but invariably imper- forate, being merely grooved upon its surface by a channel, along which the semen flows into the cloaca of the female, but without any provision for its forcible expulsion. This kind of penis consists entirely of the corpora cavernosa, arising by two crura,