832 ILIAC ARTERIES. the neck of the sac and rather to its inner side. While within the canal the artery gives outward a considerable branch—its posterior or exter- nal, or it might be with propriety called its thyroid branch—which runs downward and backward along the external margin of the thyroid foramen, between the two obturator muscles, giving them branches, and at times altogether consumed in them. Having reached the tuberosity of the ischium, it gives branches to the quadratus and adductor magnus muscles, to the upper attachments of the flexors of the leg, and to the ilio-femoral articulation, into which it sometimes sends through the cotyloid notch a branch more frequently supplied by the internal circumflex (femoral) artery ; it also sends another round the thyroid foramen, which meets a similar branch from the obtura- tor. It anastomoses with the internal circum- flex and the sciatic arteries. At its entrance into the thigh, the obturator artery is situate above and before the obturator externus muscle, and behind the pectinalis, which with some of the fibres of the adductor longus must be divided in order to expose the vessel. It descends be- tween the pectinalis, the long and short adduc- tors, and is distributed to them, the adductor magnus, the gracilis, and the integuments upon the upper and inner part of the thigh. It gives also a branch, which runs round the margin of the thyroid foramen, and meets the branch already described from its thyroid branch. The artery anastomoses freely with the internal cir- cumflex artery. The obturator artery presents many varieties as to its source, of which some are deserving of particular attention. According to J. F. Meckel its ordinary source is the posterior division of the internal iliac, either immediately or by a trunk common to it and the ilio-lumbar, but at least once in ten times it arises from another source. The next most frequent is the internal iliac itself above and before its division; then the anterior division of the iliac; occasionally the external iliac, and sometimes the femoral, even so low as two inches from Poupart's liga- ment. The most frequent variety, and which according to the same authority is as common as the origin from the internal iliac itself, is that the artery arises from the epigastric, or from a trunk common to both. Sometimes it has a double origin, being formed by the union of two branches of equal size, one from the epi- gastric, and the other from the internal iliac, and at times it has a different source upon op- posite sides. In every case the destination of the artery is the same; it runs to the inner aperture of the subpubic canal, in order to escape to the thigh, and in so doing it holds a very intimate relation to the internal femoral ring in those instances in which it proceeds either from the epigastric or from the femoral. When it arises from the epigastric, it runs obliquely downward, backward, and inward, above the crural arch, toward the superior aperture of the pelvis, then entering the pelvis posterior to the pubis it turns downward be- neath it, and gains the subpubic foramen. During its descent into the pelvis the artery superiorly is covered by the peritoneum, and inferiorly corresponds to Poupart's ligament and the internal femoral ring, but the side of the ring, at which it may be placed, varies in different instances. When the common trunk from which the epigastric and obturator arise is short, the obturator lies close to the inside of the external iliac vein and then is situate on the outer side of the ring, while when the com- mon trunk is long the artery is more remote from the vein, coasts along the base of Gimber- nat's ligament, and thus runs obliquely across the front and inner side of the aperture. Ac- cording to the case, therefore, will be the rela- tion of the artery to the neck of femoral hernia ; in the former it will be situate external and posterior to it, in the latter anterior and inter- nal. When hernia descends not only into the lym- phatic compartment of the sheath, but, as has been observed by Burns, also into that belong- ing to the vein, thus forming a double protru- sion, the artery may, if the common trunk be short, be situate external to the neck of the former and internal to that of the latter. The comparative frequency of this mode of origin of the obturator artery has been diffe- rently estimated. According to Monro it oc- curs in one of twenty cases ; Velpeau coincides in this opinion; Lawrence states it to be once in ten ; J. F. Meckel considers it to be as frequent as that from the internal iliac; and according to the observations of Cloquet the proportion of instances in 250 subjects in which the artery was found to arise from the epigastric, whether on one or both sides, was one in three, and that of all the origins from the epigastric to all those from other sources was still greater, about I..24. A more important question is the pro- portion borne by those instances in which the obturator arising from the epigastric is situate on the inside of the neck of the hernia, to the total number of such cases, or to that of cases of femoral hernia requiring operation, for it is obviously with it that the operator is concerned. Cooper has not met the artery on the inside of the hernia, though in six of twenty-one cases he found the origin from the epigastric; and Lawrence states that the proportion of the for- mer cases does not exceed one in eight or ten, and therefore that the obturator artery would be endangered only once in eighty or one hun- dred operations. When the obturator arises from the femoral artery, which Cloquet found in six of 250 subjects, it ascends into the abdomen beneath the crural arch, along the pectinalis muscle and internal to the femoral vein, and in femoral hernia is found behind the sac. We are indebted to J. F. Meckel for solving the apparent irregularity of these origins of the» obturator, and reducing them to a mere varia- tion of the normal condition ; the obturator, as has been stated, is normally connected with the epigastric by an anastomotic branch, and hence may be considered as having two origins, an anterior and a posterior, a disposition the reality of which is more manifest at the earlier periods of life, and according as the one or the other