HEART. 611 two sides of the heart, and the different results obtained when the one side of the heart was emptied of blood, and when it was retained in the other, are sufficient to shew the effect which the presence of blood in the cavities of this organ has upon the continuance of its action after the circulation has ceased. If the heart has been removed from the body and emptied of its blood, it must naturally follow that its different cavities will be tilled with atmospheric air; and it has been well ascertained that this acts as a very powerful stimulant upon the inner surface of the heart.* Every circumstance connected with these experiments is in exact conformity with the opinion that the movements of the heart are only called into action by the application of a stimulant. Thus, when the irritability of the heart becomes more languid, and when the blood or the atmospheric air in its cavities becomes insufficient to raise it to contraction, strong and energetic movements may still generally be excited by having recourse to a more powerful stimulant, such as the prick of a scalpel or the application of galvanism. Since the heart is highly en- dowed with irritability, various other mild fluids besides the blood are capable of exciting it to contraction. As every organ, however, has its irritability adapted for the function which it is destined to perform, so we find that the heart, the central organ of the circulation, is most fitly called into action by the blood, its appro- priate and natural stimulant. In examining the nature of the irritability of the heart, and contrasting it with that of the voluntary muscles, we must not compare its contractions with those excited by volition in the muscles of voluntary motion, for these last are evidently modified by the nervous influence for an obvious purpose ; but let us observe both when placed under similar circumstances, and irritated by the application of the same stimu- lant applied to the muscles themselves, and we will find that they only differ in this,—that in the voluntary muscles each successive appli- cation of the stimulant is generally followed by a single contraction, while in the heart it is followed, except when the contractility is much impaired, by several consecutive con- tractions alternated with relaxations. This ten- dency to successive contractions is also observed, though not to the same extent, in the muscular coat of the intestines. We must admit, however, that the contrac- tions of the heart proceed under circumstances where it is difficult to point out the presence of any sufficient stimulus, and where, to account for their continuance, we are almost obliged to have recourse to the supposition, that there is some innate moving power in the heart itself. It has been stated, for example, that the move- * Peyer, Brunner, and Hallcr have seen the con- tractions of the heart renewed by blowing air into the cava ascendens. Wepfer and Steno produced the same effect by inflation of the thoracic duct. Ennian states that he once observed the renewal of the heart's action in the human subject by blowing air into the thoracic duct. Vide Senac, torn, i. p. 326. ments of the heart will proceed under the ex- hausted receiver of an air-pump. I have repeatedly placed under the bell-glass of an air-pump the heart of a frog when removed from the body and emptied of its blood, and I could never satisfy myself that the frequency or strength of its contractions was at all affected by the withdrawal or renewal of the air; and though it might be urged that the air is only rarefied, not entirely removed, in the best ex- hausted receiver of an air-pump, and that con- sequently in such experiments a stimulant still existed in the presence of the rarefied air, yet I would not consider this explanation of the continuance of its contractions by any means satisfactory. In these experiments there is ano- ther source of stimulation present which ought to be taken into account, for, as I shall after- wards shew, the slightest movement of the heart, such as that caused by its contraction, upon the surface upon which it is placed when removed from the body, is sufficient, from the great irritability of the organ, to act as a stimu- lant upon it. If these external stimuli appear to be insufficient to account for the persistence of the contractions of the heart under the cir- cumstances we have mentioned, we may have recourse to another explanation drawn from the mechanical structure of the organ; for it is possible, as has been suggested by Dr. Alison, that from the peculiarly convoluted arrangement of the fibres, the outer may, during the con- traction of the organ, pinch or stimulate the inner, and so cause this tendency to repeated contractions from one application of a stimu- lant. We do not, however, consider that we have succeeded perfectly in accounting for the continuance of the contractions of the heart under all circumstances, but we are unwilling to admit the existence of any peculiar innate and unknown agency in the production of any phenomenon, until it is satisfactorily established that it cannot be accounted for on the known laws which regulate similar phenomena in the same texture in other parts of the body. And it must also be remembered that these move- ments of the heart have only been observed when its contractility was still comparatively vigorous, and where sources of stimulation were still present. We ought, besides, to be the more cautious in admitting the existence of this innate moving power, since it is in opposition to a well-known law in the animal economy,—that though the various tissues of an organized body are endowed with certain vital properties, yet the application of certain external and internal stimuli is necessary to produce their manifestations of activity. In fact it is from the action and reaction of these tissues and excitants upon each other, that the phenomena of life result.* * The remarks which we have made above, illustrating the great length of time which the heart will continue to contract after being removed from the body, and when all communication between the nerves ramified in its substance and the sympathetic ganglia and the central organs of the nervous sys- tem have been cut oft, when taken along with the equally well ascertained fact, that its contractions 2 S 2