338 BONES OF THE FOOT. advert to them here as a group for the sake of distinction. Tubercles have been found by the writer and others, as already referred to, in the lungs, liver, brain, spleen, peritoneum, and mesen- tery, the glands of which have been found by Oihler in a state of complete scrofulous dege- neration, not only in children born of a scro- fulous mother, but in others also: in some instances the tubercular formations were found in a state of suppuration.* Scirrhous tumours have been already des- cribed as found in the heart. The only instance of fungus heematodes in : the fetus of which the writer is aware, is one. which he had, not long since, an opportunity of observing f with Dr. Alcock and Dr. Ev.an- son in a child which lived only nine weeks ;. at birth an unusual fulness was observed about the perineum and anus, which . increased ra- pidly until these parts became greatly pro- truded, and a tumour was formed of the -si?e of a very large orange; convulsions came on, and the child died after much suffering : oh examination, the tumour was found to be a perfect specimen of fungus haematodes. Bibliography.—Licetus (Fortun.) De perfecta constitutione hominis in utero, &c. 4to. Patavii, 1616'. Alsaro della Crore, (Vincent), Disquisitio generalis ad historiam foetus emortui nonimestvis, &c.4to. Romae, 1627. Riolamisf Joan. )F(£tnshisto- ria, 8vo. Parisiis, 1628. Fridericus (Joan. Arnoud.J TofivaTfA.cc ia.Tp.Kov foetum quoad principia, partes communes et proprias, differentias, morbos et sym- ptomata, eorumdemque curationem offerens atque exponens, 4to. Ienae, 1658. Frank de Frankenau, ( Gcorg.) De impuberibus generantibus et parien- tibus, foetu in foetu, embryo in embryo, et foetu ex mortua matre, &c. Duettel, (Phil. Jac.) De rnorbis fcetus in utero materno, 4to. Halae Magdeb. 1702. Valentini, De morbis embryonum, Giessae, 1704. Starch, Kinderkrankheiten, Eisenach, 1750. Socin (Joan. Abel.) De foetu hydropico, 4to. Basilae, 1751. Jceger, Observations de foetibus recens natis jam in utero mortuis,&c. 4to. Tubings, 1767. Raulin, Traite des Maladies des Enfans, Paris, 1768. Gruner, De Naevorum Originibus, Jenae, 1778. Zierhold, De notabilibus quibusdam quEE foetui in utero contingere possunt, Halae, 1778. Hoogeveen, Traetatus de fcetus humani morbis, 8vo. Lugduni Bat. 1784. Engelkart, Dissertatio inaug. Med. sistens morbos hominum a prima conforma- tione usque ad partum, 4to. Jenae, 1792. Chaus- sier, Discours prononce a l'hospice de la Maternite, Juin 1810 et Juin 1812. Ej, Proces Verbal de la distribution des prix, 1812. Ej. Bulletins de la Faculte de Medecine. Paris, 1813 et 1821. Murat, Diet, des Sciences Med. art. Fcetus, Paris, 1812. Feller, P'adiatrik, Subzbach, 1814. Oehler, Pro- legomena in emhryonis humani pathologiam, Diss, inaug. Lipsiae, 1815. Joerg, Zur Physiologie und Pathologie des Embryo, Lipsiae, 1818. F. B, Osiander, Handbuch der Entbindungskunst, Tubin- gae, 1819. Seeligmann, Dissertatio de morbis fcetus humani, Erlangae, 1820. Zuccarini, Zur Beleuchtung der Krankheiten der menschlichen Frucht, Erlangen, 1824. Desormeaux, Diet, de Med. torn. xv. art. (Euf; Paris, 1826. Prosper, S. Denis, Recherches d'Anat. et de Physiol, patholo- gique sur plusieurs maladies des Enfans nouveaux lies. Paris, 1826. Hufeland, Die Krankheiten der * See section on the state of the Lungs, and Billard, p. 648. t See his Exposition of the Signs and Symptoms of Pregnancy, &c. p. 152. Ungebomen und die Vorsqrge, &c. Journal der praktischen Heilkunde, .1827.' Meissner, Kinder- krankheiten, Leipzig,. 1828. Hardegg, De Morbis fcetus humani, Tubingae, 1828.".. Billard, Traite des Maladies des Enfans nouvdasx-nes et a la mammelle, Paris,. 1828. Bergli, De«Morbis fcetus humani, Lipsiae, 1829. Cruveilhier, Anatomie Pathologique du corps humain, Paris, 1829. Andry, Memoire sur les Maladies du fetus, &c. Journal des Progr^s, 1830. • Zurmeyer',De Mor- bis fcetus, Bonnae, 1832. Griietzer, Die Krankhei- ten des fcetus, Breslau, 1837. » ; (W'.'F. Montgomery.) FOOT, BONES OF THE (in human ana- tomy).—The foot (pes ; Gr. Troy;; Fr. It pied ; Germ, der' Fuss) forms the inferior segment of the lowerextremity,'being united to the leg at the ankle-joint nearly at a right angle, so that in the erect position on a plane surface the foot is horizontal. The outline of the foot circum- scribes an ovpidal figure, the long axis of which is directed from before backwards; and in the same direction the foot is divided into three segments, the anterior one surpassing that behind it in mobility, but falling short of it in solidity. These divisions are the tarsus, meta- tarsus, and the toes. - The size of the foot, taken as a whole, varies in different individuals : it always exceeds that of the hand, chiefly, however, in length and thickness, its breadth being less than that of the hand. In the'hand we find divisions pre- cisely analogous to those of the foot above mentioned and similarly constructed, with this difference, that the solid part of the foot is more solid and more developed in every way than the corresponding part of the hand, but the moveable parts possess less mobility than the analogous segments of the hand. The parls of the foot and hand, as Mr. Lawrence observes, are disposed inversely in respect to their importance. The posterior portion of the former and the anterior of the latter are of the most consequence and possess the most remark- able characters. In short, the foot is nothing- more than the hand so modified as to afford a firm basis of support to the inferior extremity in the erect posture. One of the most remark- able of these modifications is that manifest in the metatarsal bone of the great toe, which corresponds to the metacarpal bone of the thumb. The latter bone is connected with the carpus so that it forms an acute angle with the second metacarpal bone. It enjoys at its arti- culation with the carpus a considerable degree of mobility, in virtue of which exists the opposable faculty of the thumb. On the other hand, the metatarsal bone of the great toe enjoys but a very limited degree of mobility at its articulation with the tarsus : it lies parallel to the adjacent bone and possesses considerable strength. These remarkable differences, says Mr. Lawrence, are easily understood when we consider that the great toe, as one of the points on which the body is supported, requires solidity; while the thumb, being concerned in all the numerous and varied motions of the hand, must be organised for mobility. Those animals in which the inferior segments of both anterior and posterior extremities are eminently