804 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. upper and back part of the acetabulum. The crepitus and frequent recurrence of the dis- placement rendered it sufficiently obvious that the brim of the acetabulum had been broken in the above-mentioned situation. The bone was a third time restored to its place, and a strong band placed around the pelvis. Inl83G, I admitted the man into the Richmond Hos- pital. He was at this time unable to walk without the assistance of a crutch. The in- jured limb was one inch and a half shorter than the other. When standing, he rested it upon the points of the toes, the heel being drawn upwards; but a slight degree of extension was sufficient to restore it to its natural length ; and when the man was lying in bed there was hardly any difference perceptible in the length of the two limbs. The breadth of the injured hip was occasionally greater than that of the sound one, and the head of the femur could be pushed upwards easily, and, of course, it al- ways ascended, when the patient endeavoured to support his weight upon it; and in many motions of the joint, the rubbing together of the broken surfaces was distinctly audible. After having remained in the Richmond Hospital under our observation for two months, lie was discharged. Nothing could be devised to make his limb more useful to him. The fracture, therefore, of the supercilium of the ace- tabulum is a very serious injury, which it be- hoves surgeons to be well acquainted with. A successful mode of managing such cases has not yet been exemplified.* 2. Fracture of the superior extremity of the femur.—The head of the femur is so protected by the acetabulum, that it is seldom or never fractured, except by gunshot injuries. The neck and rest of its superior extremity are, however, we find, subjected to various accidents. The general symptoms of fractures of the neck and upper extremity of the femur are, that the affected limb is shorter than the other, the heel vises to the level of the opposite malleolus, the patella, leg, and foot seem much everted; there is a flattening of the natis, and a fulness of the groin. The patient does not attempt to stand, much less to walk. There is in the part itself, as ft were, a conscious inability to support the weight of the body, and even when the patient is lying on a horizontal plane, as in bed, we find that be cannot, by the unassisted effort of the muscles of the injured limb, elevate it from the horizontal level, upon which it lies power- less. When the surgeon, standing at the foot of the bed, seizes the affected limb, and pulls it towards him, so as gradually to overcome the contractile power of the muscles, the limb is restored to its natural length, and if now we resort to the painful expedient of rotating the thigh, crepitus is rendered manifest. When- ever the surgeon relaxes the force by which the limb was restored to its natural length, the shortening, eversion, and deformity of the limb * In the twelfth volume of the Dublin Medical Journal, Mr. R. Smith has made some valuable observations on this case, in relation to the diag- nosis of obscure cases of injury of the hip and shoulder-joints. recur. Such are the general signs of fracture of the upper extremity of the thigh-bone. The portion of the bone, called the neck, may be fractured transversely with respect to the direction of its long axis, either within or with- out the capsular ligament. The first is deno- minated the intracapsular fracture, the second the extra-cupsular fracture. Oblique fractures of the neck of the bone are not impossible. A. Intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the femur. — This fracture has been seldom seen in the young subject, but is one of the most common accidents to which elderly peo- ple are liable. In such persons many cir- cumstances in their organization appear to ac- count for their great liability to this accident. Their muscles have lost their firmness, and are more or less in a state of atrophy ; the trochan- ter major becomes peculiarly prominent; the neck of the femur yielding somewhat, perhaps, to the weight of the body, descends and loses some of its obliquity. This atrophy of the muscles and bones is not so frequently noticed in the male as in the elderly female, in whom the breadth of the pelvis is greater and the tro- chanter major more projecting. These obser- vations account sufficiently for the great liability to the intra-capsular fracture, which we notice in the elderly subject, and for the more fre- quent occurrence of the accident in the aged female than in the male. In the young subject the trochanter major does not project so much, the muscles surrounding the hip-joint are re- markably firm, and when falls on the side occur, the surrounding muscles and the os in- nominatuin share, with the great trochanter, the weight of the fall. The bone in the young subject is better calculated from its form and its organization to resist the effects of falls on the trochanter, and in these fractures of the neck of the femur have been rarely witnessed. In the young subject, too, the neck of the femur is comparatively shorter than in the aged, the angle of union of the neck with the shaft of the bone is more open, and the axes of both neck and shaft are more in a line. The great proportion of animal matter existing in the bones of the young, and consequent elasticity of the bone, render it capable of resisting frac- ture, while, on the contrary, the comparative deficiency of animal matter, and the consequent redundancy of earthy material in the aged sub- ject, render the neck of the femur friable. In a word, the tissue of the bones in general does not escape, in the aged, that atrophy which affects the rest of the system, and when we re- collect the functions which the neck of the thigh-bone has to perform, we shall not be sur- prised to learn that the effects of this atrophy are more readily felt and seen in this part of the osseous system than perhaps any other. The superincumbent weight of the body and the action of muscles must have a tendency to diminish the obliquity of the neck of the thigh- bone, to render it more horizontal, and conse- quently less capable of bearing up against the effects of concussion. Besides the loss of obliquity of the neck of the thigh-bone, we find two other circumstan-