693 HERMAPHRODITISM. He was expelled the convent, assumed the male dress, and took the name of Francois. The sequel of the story, as told by Chroker, would seem to shew that his sexual desires be- came extremely strong, and he is said to have been ultimately condemned, whether justly or not, under an accusation of rape. Portal* quotes from Tigeon the story of a person who was brought up as a female, and afterwards was considered to be suddenly changed by a surprising metamorphosis into a male, and in citing this case Dr. Hodgkin,f of London, mentions, on the authority of a friend, a recent instance of an equally sudden deve- lopment of the male sex in a previously reputed female. Similar instances in which the proper sex of malformed males was unexpectedly dis- covered under the excitement of sexual passion at the period of puberty are mentioned by Pare, Tulpius, and others. SchweikardJ has recorded an instance of a person baptized and brought up as a female, and whose true sex was only at last disclosed by his requesting, at the age of forty-nine, per- mission to marry a young woman then preg- nant by him. On examination it was disco- vered that the penis was slender and scarcely two inches long; the right testicle only had descended into the scrotum, and the urethra opened at the root of the penis, but its orifice was placed in such a manner that during mic- turition the urine was thrown along the groove or channel on the under surface of the penis, so as to appear to issue from its anterior extremity. The two halves of the scrotum were so far united that they left only a small oval opening between the anterior part of the raphe and the roots of the corpora cavernosa. In this open- ing the orifice of the urethra was situated. Dr. Baillie§ has mentioned a case which appears to belong in all probability to the pre- sent division. The subject of it was twenty- four years of age. She had always passed in society as a woman, and came for consultation to the Nottingham Hospital on account of her menses never having appeared ; a circumstance, however, that had in no way affected her health. The spurious vagina consisted of a cul-de-sac two inches in depth. The penis was of the size of the female clitoris, but there were no nymphse. The labia were more pen- dulous than usual, and contained each of them a body resembling a testicle of a moderate size, with its cord. The look of the individual was remarkably masculine, with plain features, but no beard. The mammae resembled those of a woman. The person had no desire or partiality for either sex. Adelaide Preville, who had been married as a female, died in the Hotel Dieu of Paris. In examining the body of this individual after ' Hist, de l'Anat. torn. ii. p. 52. t Catalogue of Guy's Hospital Museum, part ii. sect. xi. X Hufeland's Journal der Prak. Heilkunde. Bd. xvii. No. 18. Morbid Anatomy, p. 410, 2d edit. death, Giraud* found that, except a perineal cleft or false vagina consisting of a cul-de-sac placed between the bladder and rectum, nothing else resembling the female sexual apparatus could be detected, while all the organs belong- ing to the male sex were present Ottof has described and represented (Jig-289) Fig. 289. a case of the present species of hermaphroditism in an individual whose history is remarkable. The person had lived ten years in the state of wedlock with three different men ; but at the age of thirty-five an action of divorce was brought against her by her third husband, accusing her of being affected with some disease of the sexual parts that rendered the connubial act on his part extremely difficult and painful. After some difference of opinion between the two medical men to whose professional examination the wife was submitted, it was at last consi- dered that she was in reality a male, and the case came at last under the investigation of the members of the Royal Medical College of Silesia, who confirmed this opinion. The im- perforated penis (6) was one inch and a half in length ; the perineal fissure (e) forming the false vagina was, at the posterior part of its orifice, bounded by a distinct frenulum, but was of a size sufficient to receive the glans of the husband for an inch and a half in depth. This cavity, as well as the internal surfaces of the two lobes (a «) of the divided scrotum, were lined with a vascular mucous membrane. At the bottom of it the round orifice of the urethra (d) was seen to open ; and at the same * Recueil Period, de la Soc. de Med. torn. ii. p. 315, or Moureau's Hist. Nat. de la Fcmme, t. i. p. 243, (with a figure of the parts.) f Neue Scltcne Bcobachtungcn zur Anatomic, &c. p. 123.