EYE. 171 passage of the tendons of the peronan muscles. The apex of the malleolus is directed down- wards, and is the point of attachment of the middle external lateral ligament. Structure.—This bone is very light and elastic, a property rendered necessary by the antagonist muscles which are inserted into its opposite surfaces. Its extremities are composed of cancellated structure, which extends some way to the shaft of the bone. The medullary canal, very narrow and irregular, is found only in its middle third. Developement of the bones of the leg.—The tibia begins to ossify somewhat earlier than the fibula. Both bones begin to ossify in their shafts ; the ossific point of the shaft of the tibia appears about the middle of the second month. According to Meckel, in the embryo of ten weeks, the fibula is not above half the length of the tibia; after the third month the two bones are nearly equal. Both bones have an ossific point for each extremity. The superior extremity of the tibia begins to ossify towards the termination of the first year after birth. The inferior extre- mity is ossified in the course of the second year: the external malleolus is a prolongation of the inferior extremity. The union of the extremities with the shaft commences by the inferior, and is completed from the eighteenth to the twenty-fifth year. The ossification of the fibula follows nearly the same course, excepting that the superior extremity does not begin to ossify till the fifth year. The tibia constitutes the principal pillar of support to the leg. It is placed perpendicu- larly under the femur, and as the latter bone is inclined inwards, it follows that there must be an angle formed between these two bones at the knee-joint, a very obtuse one, with its apex inwards.'* It is then by the strength and direction of the tibia that the leg firmly sup- ports the body in the erect attitude; the fibula seems not to contribute at all to the solidity of the limb, but is chiefly employed to increase the surface of attachment for the muscles of the leg. The developement of the tibia and fibula in the inferior mammalia is pretty similar to that of the radius and ulna. The tibia is always fully developed, and, as in man, is the prin- cipal bone of the leg, its size being pro- portionate to the weight and strength of the animal. Admitting the fibula to be the ana- logue of the latter bone, we find that, as it is rudimentary in the Solipeds and Ruminants, so the fibula is in a similar condition in these animals. In the former animals this bone is applied to the external side of the head of the tibia in the form of an elongated stilet, termi- nating less than half way down in a fine point. On the other hand, in Ruminants it is only the inferior part of the fibula that is developed ; it appears under the form of a small narrow bone, extending a very little way upwards, and form- ing the external malleolus. * A preternatural obliquity of the femur causes a corresponding divergence of the tibia from the perpendicular. When the femur is directed un- usually inwards, the tibia is directed downwards and outwards. In Pachydermata the fibula is fully deve- loped and quite distinct from the tibia, and very small in proportion. In Edentata the two bones are fully developed, and in the Sloths the inferior extremity of the fibula con- tributes to form the articular surface for the astragalus. In Rodentia the two bones are united together in the inferior half, as also with the Insectivora, particularly in the Mole. In many Carnivora these bones are fully developed and detached: this is particularly manifest in the Pbocida; and the Felidae. In the Dogs, however, the fibula is attached to the posterior part of the tibia. For the description of the bones composing the foot, we refer to the article under that head; and for further details on the osseous system of the extremities, we refer to the articles Osseous System (Comp. Anat.) and Skeleton. Abnormal condition of the bones of the extre- mities.—A congenital malformation of one or more of the extremities is classed by Isidore Geoffroy St. Hilaire among what he denomi- nates " Monstres Ectromeliens," of which he has three subdivisions: 1st, where the hands or feet appear to exist alone, and seem to be connected with the trunk without the inter- vention of all or some of the intermediate segments; these he denominates Phocomeles, {(puxri, Phoca, and p.EXo;, membrum,) from their resemblance to the permanent condition of the aquatic mammalia: 2d, cases in which there are one or more incomplete limbs terminating in the form of stumps: to these he gives the name Hemimeles: and, lastly, where the limb or limbs are wholly absent or scarcely at all developed. An interesting case of Phoco- melia is recorded by Dumeril; all the limbs were in this condition, owing to the absence of the humerus, and forearm bones in the upper extremity, and the presence of a very imperfect femur, developed only as to the head and tro- chanters, and a very imperfect tibia in the lower extremity. The clavicle and scapula were pre- sent, but presented some irregularities of form.* The congenitaj absence of these last bones is rare excepting where the other bones of the limb are also absent. It would be inconsistent with the objects of this article to prosecute this subject further; we therefore refer for further details to the article Monstrosity. For Bibliography, see that of Anatomy (Introduction). (R. B. Todd.) EYE, (in human anatomy), ofpOafyto;, orga- nonvisus; oculus. Yr.CEil; Germ, das Auge ; Ital. Occ/ii'o.—The human eye is a hollow sphere, about one inch in diameter, with a circular aperture in the anterior part about one-fifth of this sphere in breadth, filled by a transparent convex portion called the cornea, through which the light is transmitted. Within this hollow * Hull, de la Sor. Philomath, t. iii.( quoted in Geoff. St. Hilaire's Anom. de 1'OrganizaUon, t. ii. p. 211.