65 ANIMAL HEAT. lution of heat. To ascertain whether this coincidence is to be viewed as being in the mutual relation of cause and effect, it imports to know whether or not their variations are in relation with those of the heat produced. If they coincide whenever we compare them, pro- vided these comparisons are but sufficiently numerous, we shall be safe in admitting a necessary connexion between them. We were led to the relation which engages our attention in the course of our comparisons of warm- blooded animals with those having cold blood considered in general. Let us now enter upon a comparison of the same kind, but more par- ticular, whilst we take account of the most important subdivisions of these two great groups in order to verify our first inductions. We shall first compare Mammalia and Birds to determine which of the two classes, in con- formity with the principle to which we have been led, has its organization most favourable to the production of heat. The lungs of Birds, although smaller, are more loaded with blood than those of the Mammalia, and are in communication with ex- tensive air-cells, spreading all through the body and even penetrating into the cavities of the bones, so that the air may be said to penetrate the body generally, and to be in contact with the ramifications of the aorta as well as with those of the pulmonary artery ; the blood of these animals is therefore in the most extensive rela- tion imaginable with the air of the atmosphere. Again, if the nature of the blood of Birds be considered, independently of this extensive relation with the air, the organic condition here will not appear less favourable to them. The globules of this fluid, indeed, are a little larger and less spherical than in Mammalia, which is a disadvantage; but the proportion they bear to the fluid part is so favourable to Birds that this circumstance must give them immensely the advantage in reference to the character which engages us. With regard to the nervous sys- tem, if the encephalic extremity is developed in a minor degree in Birds, their circulating and respiratory systems act with greater quick- ness. Lastly, and as an effect of the whole of these conditions, the consumption of air is much greater among Birds than among Mammalia. From all that precedes, it follows, if the principles already laid down be correct, that Birds ought to produce the greatest quantity of heat; and this is actually the case, as we have seen when we were speaking of the actual tem- peratures of the different classes of animals— the mean temperature of the Mammalia is 38°, 4 (101° F.), that of Birds 42° 1 (108 F.). Here, then, is a powerful confirmation of the relation which we have recognized betwetn the conditions of the organization and the produc- tion of heat; it is of so much the more value as the relation being based on the comparison of two classes so numerous, the verification is made on a scale of proportionate extent. We shall extend it still farther by contrasting in the same manner the two other classes of the Ver- tebrata, Reptiles and Fishes. I. The organs which prepare the materials of the blood—the digestive apparatus is more complete among Reptiles than among Fishes; 1st, in the dental apparatus when it exists; 2d, in the more distinct stomach; 3d, in the greater length of the intestines. II. The blood of Reptiles is superior to that of Fishes both as regards the nature of the globules and their relative proportion, their size being smaller, and their numbers greater, than among Fishes. If the whole of the blood in the Reptile is not transmitted through the organ of respira- tion, whilst in the Fish it is, a larger quantity of this fluid is brought into contact with the air in the same space of time in consequence of the greater extent of surface of the organ in the Reptile, and then the Reptile has the farther immense advantage of a pulmonary or aerial respiration, whilst that of the Fish is branchial or aquatic. To conclude, the nervous system of Reptiles is much more developed in the cerebro-spinal axis, and especially in the ence- phalic extremity, than in Fishes. From this comparison it follows that the organic and functional conditions, judging of these in conformity with the principles which we have taken as our guide, are much more favourable to the development of heat in Rep- tiles than in Fishes. This theoretical deduction is fully confirmed by direct observation, as we have seen above, and this verification becomes a new confirmation of the accuracy of the prin- ciple. We continue to pursue this parallel by a summary comparison of the organization in its relations with the production of heat in the cold-blooded Veitebr-ata and the Invertebrata generally. A glance suffices to shew the vast inferiority of the Invertebrata in this as in every other respect. In the first place their blood is so little of the same nature as that which has been recognized most favourable to the produc- tion of heat, that it wants the characters whe- ther of arterial or of venous blood. The blood of the Invertebrata, with the exception of a very small group (the worms with red blood), is colourless. In the structure and number of its globules it is also greatly inferior. The globules, indeed, may be smaller, but then they are of a much more simple structure, and con- sequently lower in the scale, in other words more imperfect. In the relation to the fluid part of the blood too, they are in much smaller proportion than among the Vertebrata. An analogous character is manifest in the tissues generally, the proportion of water in them being incomparably larger in the Inverte- brate than in the Vertebrate series of animals. Finally, there is an immeasurable inferiority in the nervous systems of the Invertebrate com- pared with even the lowest of the Vertebrate series of animals. Ftom all this it results, agreeably to the principle of which we are now showing the application, that the Invertebrate ought to have a much smaller capacity of producing caloric than even the cold-blooded Vertebrate animals; and this is exactly as we found matters to be by direct experiment in regard to the tempera-