629 FIBRES OL' THE HEART. com pleting the wall. Fig. 284 affords an interior view of a section of the right auricle, in which, Fig. 284. the lining membrane being removed, the fibres are seen arising from the tendinous margin of the annulus venosu3 av, forming the internal part of the wall of this auricle, and in their progress up arranged into columns, c, the branches of which are entwined together so as to construct the appendix. These convo- luted columns at the posterior aspect of the appendices are flattened, as shown in fig. 285, c, where their fibres are associating together, and Fig. 285. in passing round the edges to the anterior sur- face becomeevenly arranged again,as seen in the appendix a of the right auricle, ra, oifig. 286. Thus far the construction of the two auricles Fig. 286. CS D CI agrees, the fibres of each arising from its respec- tive annulus, forming first the inner part of the wall of the auricle, and then being arranged into columns which entwine together, forming the whole of the appendix. The fibres of the right auricle, after having formed the wall of this cavity, are prolonged to form the outer part of the wall of the left auricle. As may be seen in Jig. 286, the fibres which extend from the con- voluted fibres of the posterior surface of the right auricle, ra, wind evenly arranged, some over the apex, and others round the auricle, marked c, completing the outer part of the wall of the entire auricle: they then meet at the septum S, across which they pass associated together, marked d, and on reaching the left auricle divide into an upper portion and an anterior and posterior band. The tipper portion is composed of the continued fibres d, which proceed up the appendix and encircle its apex. The anterior band e winds round the left au- ricle la, and on reaching the root of the aorta k, its fibres become more or less at- tached to it in different hearts ; in its course upwards, marked f, when it has completed a circle it passes behind the fibres which form the first part of the circle to enter into the formation of the fleshy columns of the appendix. The posterior band passes over the left auricle be- tween the appendix a and the vena cava su- perior cs; and in fig. 285 it can be traced, coming over, marked g, and passing along the posterior surface of this auricle la, including in its course the posterior edge of the appendix a ; the fibres which pass along the posterior edge of the appendix, on arriving at the ante- rior edge, separate from the band g to pursue their course round the edge of the appendix,— now along the anterior edge,—and join the fibres d, which cap the apex. This division of the band which encircles the appendix is con- stant, and evidently affords particular strength to its edge. The band itself g winds down towards the base, expanding and surrounding the orifices of the pulmonary veins p; some of its fibres become lost on the surface of the auricle, and the others may be traced to the root of the aorta. This band cannot be completely detached in consequence of some of its fibres being inter- woven with its subjacent fibres. The left auricle, without the addition of these bands, would nearly balance in substance and strength the right; their addition gives, there- fore, to the left a considerable preponderance in these respects over the right auricle. The septum S is, mfig. 286, shown to^be com- posed, superiorly, of the transverse band of fibres d, which passes from the right to the left auricle; in its middle part, of the ascending fibres H, which arise from the root of the aorta k, and pass up behind the band d, some joining this band, the others proceeding to the vena cava superior cs ; and lastly, at the infe- rior and posterior part, of a slender fasciculus of fibres which crosses the septum transversely between the root of the aorta k and the vena cava inferior ci, extending from the annulus venosus to the left auricle, but which cannot be seen in this figure. In concluding these remarks on the construc- tion of the auricles, it may be mentioned that in theheartsof large animals a great difference ex- ists in the structure of the two vena? cava?, the superiorbeingparticularly fleshy,and the inferior apparently devoid of muscularity. (H. Scarle.)