ECIIINODERMATA. 32 median line, and two smaller ones (b, b,) placed laterally. On the sides of the ray the calcareous substance is disposed, as it were, in ribs (c, c, Jig. 9); these rise from the floor at first nearly parallel with each other, and are con- nected by cross bars, but on approaching the upper part or roof of the ray they cross in all directions and form an irregular network, the intervals of which are occupied by softer inte- gument. The ribs and bars are made up of small pieces joined by plane but oblique sur- faces, a mode of construction calculated to admit of their being lengthened and shortened upon one another, and thus to allow of the ca- vity they surround being dilated and contracted. Fig. 9. Portion of a ray of Asterias rubens viewed laterally. A broad calcareous disk is situated on the upper surface of the body, in the angle be- tween two of the rays, (jigs. 12 and 16, z,) which is connected internally with a singular organ named by Tiedemann the sand canal, to be afterwards described. The calcareous pieces are of a homogeneous structure, without cells or fibres; they consist, according to Hatchett's analysis, of carbonate of lime, with a smaller proportion of phosphate of lime. The coriaceous membrane which connects the pieces of the skeleton is made up of white glistening fibres. It is contractile and irritable, for it slowly shrinks on being scratched with the point of a knife, or when it is cut through. The external membrane is much thinner and softer than that just described ; in various parts it is coloured, or in these parts there is a co- loured layer underneath it. The appendages or processes on the surface of the body are of three kinds. First, calcareous spines; these are found over the whole surface except the grooves for the feet. They are at- tached by a moveable joint at their base to the calcareous pieces of the skin, and are invested by the external soft membrane nearly as far as their point. Those on the upper surface are solitary, short, and for the most part club- shaped, their broader summit being marked with radiating points ; whence they were named stelliform processes by Tiedemann. On each side of the groove for the feet the spines are thickly set (<*, c, jig. 7); these in Asterias rubens form three rows, in the middle and innermost of which they are placed three deep. On this part of the surface they are also longer and pointed. The spines are slowly moved at the will of the animal. The appendages of the second kind are of a very singular nature; they have the appearance of pincers or crabs' claws in miniature (Jig. 298, c, b, b, p. 615, vol. i.) and were described by Miiller as parasitical animals under the name of Pedicellaria. Monro gave the name of antenna? to analogous organs which are found on the sea-urchin. They probably do not exist in all species, for Tiedemann makes no mention of them in his description of A. auranliaca. In A. rubens they cover the surface generally, and form dense groups round the spines. Each consists of a soft stem bearing at its summit, or (when branched) at the point of each branch, a sort of forceps of calcareous matter not unlike a crab's claw, except that the two blades are equal and similar. When the point of a fine needle is introduced between the blades, which are for the most part open in a fresh and vigorous specimen, they instantly close and grasp it with consi- derable force. The particular use of these prehensile organs is not apparent; their stem, it may be remarked, is quite impervious. The third sort of appendages consists of those which are named the respiratory tubes; they will be considered afterwards. The other genera of Asteroidea have also a cutaneous skeleton presenting the same general mode of construction as that of Asterias, but with certain modifications of structure and stdl greater differences of form in particular cases. Of these we may here notice the crinoid ec/ii- nodermata and the genus comatula, as the most interesting examples. The former ani- mals, comprehended by most naturalists in the genus Encrinus, are, with one exception (the Enc. caput medusa or Pentacrinitc) found only in a fossil state, and the remains of their ske- letons constitute the fossils named encrinites, trochites, entrochites, &c. An idea of their structure may be obtained if we imagine an asterias placed with its mouth upwards on a columnar jointed stem, one end of which is connected to the dorsal surface of the animal, and the other most probably fixed at the bottom of the sea. The rays or arms extending from the circumference of the body are much branched, and at last pinnated ; other jointed processes, named auxiliary arms, surround the stem in whorls placed at short intervals. The column is perforated in its centre with a narrow canal, down which a prolongation of the sto- mach extends, and lateral canals proceed from the central one through the verticillate auxiliary arms. The Comatula has rays spreading from the circumference of the body, branched and pinnated like those of the pentacrinite. It is not fixed on a column, but the dorsal surface of the body is elevated in the middle, and bears a number of smaller rays or arms, and this dorsal eminence with its rays has been sometimes compared to a rudiment of the column of the pentacrinite with its auxiliary arms. Besides the mouth there is an anal opening on the ventral surface, situated on an eminence near the margin.* b. In the sea-urchin the calcareous matter is disposed in polygonal plates, which, being * Meckel, Vergl. Anat. ii. p. 31.