ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 91 Fig. 48. The right electrical organ divided horizontally at the place where the nerves enter, the upper half being turned outwards. A A, The first or anterior electrical nerve. B B, The second or middle nerve arising behind the gill. C C, The anterior branch of the third nerve arising behind the second gill. D D, The posterior branch of the third nerve arising behind the third gill. which, probably, serves as a medium of com- munication between the electrical organs ; being, apparently, a better conductor of electricity than either the naked skin or salt water* With regard to the development of the elec- trical organs, it appears that, in the earliest stages of foetal growth, they cannot be seen. In a foetus of about seven-tenths of an inch in length, Dr. Davy found neither electrical organs nor fins. In another, more than one inch long, the organs were beginning to appear, and the roots of the electrical nerves were visible, although the brain could not be seen. In this stage, the external branchial filaments • were about six-tenths of an inch in length, and pre- * Davy, Phil. Trans. 1832. Also Annates du Mus. no. v., in which E. Geoffroy endeavoured to show that the common mucous system of rays is absent in the torpedo, and that its place is supplied by the columns of the electrical organs, which he believed to be analogous to the mucous ducts. sented a very remarkable appearance. In a foetus of two inches and a half long, the electrical organs were distinctly formed, and the branchial filaments still long. These filaments Dr. Davy supposes to be destined to absorb matter for the formation of the electrical organs, and, perhaps, the gills and adjoining mucous glands. They are most numerous and of greatest length while the electrical organs are forming, appearing just before these organs begin to be developed, and being removed when they are tolerably com- plete.—In no other allied fishes is there the same " elaborate apparatus of filaments;" where they do exist, they are less numerous and very much shorter. 2. The electrical organs in the Gymnotus.— This fish has a general resemblance in form to the common eel. Its electrical organs occupy nearly one-third of its whole bulk. They are formed by two series of tendinous membranes ; one of which consists of horizontal plates, run-