EXTREMITY. 170 subcutaneous; its external surface is smooth, and exhibits a triangular articular facet, which is united at a little more than a right angle with the articular surface on the inferior extremity of the tibia; by this facet the internal malleolus moves on the inner surface of the body of the astragalus. The apex of the mal- leolus has the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint inserted into it; the anterior edge gives insertion to ligamentous fibres, and the posterior edge, much thicker than the antgrior, is closely connected with the posterior surface of the inferior extremity of the tibia, and has upon it the oblique groove already referred to. In comparing the position of the malleolus in- ternus with that of the internal tuberosity of the tibia, (which may best be done by laying the bone on its posterior surface on a horizontal plane,) it will be observed that the malleolus is considerably anterior to the tuberosity, a fact which is attributable to the same cause which occasions the change of aspect in the inferior part of each of the three surfaces of the shaft, namely, a torsion of the bone similar to that already noticed in the other long bones of the extremities. This torsion is manifest at the junction of the inferior and middle thirds, the lower part having the appearance of being twisted inwards, and the upper part outwards. The outer side of the tarsal extremity of the tibia is excavated so as to form a triangular surface, rough in its entire extent, to which the fibula is applied, and into which are implanted the strong ligamentous fibres by which that bone is tied to the tibia. Structure.—The cancellated texture is accu- mulate^ in large quantity at the extremities, where, especially at the superior, a line is very frequently apparent on the whole circumference, indicating the place of junction of the epiphysis and shaft. The medullary canal is large, ap- proaching the cylindrical form, and surrounded by a dense compact tissue. Fibula (Fr.perone; Germ. Wadenbein).— This bone is situated on the outer and posterior part of the tibia. It is about the same length as that bone, but as its upper extremity is ap- plied to the under surface of the external tube- rosity, its inferior extremity projects below that of the tibia. There is a slight obliquity in its direction, and in consequence, its inferior extre- mity advances more forwards than its superior. The fibula is a very slender bone in its entire extent, however its extremities are a little enlarged. The superior extremity or head of the fibula (capitulum) is somewhat rounded on its inner side, flattened on its external surface, terminating superiorly in a point into which the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint is inserted, anterior and posterior to which the edge of the bone receives the tendon of the biceps muscle. At the upper and anterior part of its internal surface there is a small sur- face nearly plane, which is articulated with a similar one on the external tuberosity of the tibia. On the shaft of the fibula we may dis- tinguish three surfaces, but in consequence of the great extent to which the fibula appears to have undergone torsion, it is at first difficult to detect the lines of demarcation between these surfaces. The ex ternal surface is very narrow and convex in its upper third, gradually ex- pands as it descends, and becomes hollowed out in its middle third, where it receives the peroncei muscles; in both these portions the aspect of this surface is outwards and slightly forwards. In the inferior third it is quite flat, and its aspect is outwards and backwards. The internal surface has a longitudinal sharp ridge upon it, which gives insertion to the interosse- ous ligament. This crest divides the internal surface into two portions; the anterior, very small, in some cases not exceeding two or three lines, gives attachment to the extensor muscles of the toes and the peronaeus tertius; the pos- terior, much more considerable and slightly concave longitudinally for about its two supe- rior thirds, has the tibialis posticus inserted into it. This surface, which above looks nearly directly inwards, looks forwards in its inferior third. The posterior surface is also very nar- row above, and expands as it descends; upon it the twist in the bone is very obvious. In its superior third this surface looks outwards and backwards ; in its middle third, where it is much more expanded, it looks directly back- wards ; and in its inferior third its aspect is inwards, and here it terminates in forming a rough surface which is adapted to the similar one on the fibular side of the inferior extremity of the tibia. Superiorly the posterior surface of the tibia gives attachment to the soloeus muscle, and lower down to the flexor pollicis proprius. The orifice of the nutritious canal, directed down- wards and forwards, is found here. A knowledge of the edges which separate these surfaces will assist the student in understanding the position of the surfaces themselves. The anterior edge begins just below the head, passes down in front of the bone as far as the middle, then becomes exter- nal and bifurcates, enclosing a triangular sur- face on the outside of the inferior extremity of the bone, which is quite subcutaneous. The external edge is at first external, and about the commencement of the inferior third it begins to wind round so as ultimately to become posterior. The internal edge, which is the most acute, and is more prominent in the centre than at its extremities, passes forwards inferiorly, and terminates in front of the inferior extre- mity of the bone: below it gives attachment to the interosseous ligament. The inferior extremity is long and flat, and terminates in a point; it extends entirely below the inferior articular surface on the tibia, and, as Cruveilhier aptly remarks, it forms exter- nally the pendant to the malleolus internus, which it exceeds in length and thickness; it is consequently called the malleolus externus. The internal surface of the external malleolus presents in its anterior two-thirds a plane triangular surface for articulation with the astragalus; behind this surface there is an excavation, which is rough, and gives insertion to the posterior external lateral ligament. The external surface is convex and subcutaneous, and the posterior surface is grooved for the