774 HIBERNATION. If the hedgehog in a state of the most perfect lethargy, uncomplicated with torpor, be touched, its respiration is resumed, and it coils itself up more forcibly than before. The dormouse, in similar circumstances, unfolds itself; and the bat moves variously. Not the slightest stiffness is observed. The hedgehog, when roused, walks about, and does not stagger, as has been asserted. The bat speedily takes to the wing, and flies about with great activity, although exhaustion and death may subsequently result from the experiment. The phenomena are similar to those of awaking from natural sleep. Impaired motility, stiffness, lameness, &c. belong to tor- por, and not to true hibernation. III. Of reviviscence.— Not the least inte- resting of the phenomena connected with hiber- nation are those of reviviscence. Hibernation induces a state of irritability of the left side of the heart, which, with high respiration and an arterialized blood, would be incompatible with life. Respiration suddenly restored, and per- manently excited, is, therefore, as destructive as its privation in other circumstances. All those bats which were sent to me from distant parts of the country died. The conti- nued excitement from the motion of the coach keeping them in a state of respiration, the ani- mal perished. One bat had, on its arrival, been roused so as to fly about. Being left quiet, it relapsed into a state of hibernation. The excitement being again repeated the next day, it again flew about the room; on the suc- ceeding day it was found dead. It is in accordance with this law, that we observe hibernating animals adopting various measures to secure themselves from frequent sources of disturbance and excitement. They choose sheltered situations, as caverns, burrows, &c. secure from the rapid changes and the in- clemencies of the weather and season. Many form themselves nests; others congregate toge- ther. The hedgehog and the dormouse roll themselves up into a ball. The common bat suspends itself by the claws of its hinder feet, with its head dependent, generally in clusters ; the horseshoe bat (ferritin equinum) spreads its wings so as to embrace and protect its fellows. All these circumstances are obviously de- signed to prevent disturbed hibernation. In the depth of caverns, and other situations sheltered from changes of temperature in the atmosphere, the calls of hunger are probably the principal cause of reviviscence in the spring. The other causes of reviviscence are the return of warmth and external excitements : it is inte- resting to observe and trace the gradual return of respiration in the former case, and of the temperature of the animal in the latter. If the hibernating hedgehog be touched even very gently, it draws a deep breath, and then continues to breathe for a short time. If this excitement be repeated, the animal is perma- nently roused, and its temperature raised. If the temperature of the atmosphere be augment- ed, the respiration is gradually excited, and the animal is gradually restored to its state of activity. If a hibernating animal be excited in a very cold atmosphere, its temperature rises variously, and then falls. A bat was perfectly lethargic in a temperature of 36°. A fine thermometer, with a cylindrical bulb, was introduced into its stomach; it rose to 39°. One hour after- wards, the animal not being further disturbed, the respiration was rapid, and the temperature in the stomach 95°. Shortly afterwards the temperature was 90°. The minute circulation was pretty good, and pulsatory in the arteries, the heart beating from twenty-eight to thirty- six times in the minute. In another bat, in an atmosphere of the tem- perature of 36°, the thermometer in the stomach rose to 39°. The animal being continually ex- cited, the temperature rose to 65°, but speedily fell to 60°. The animal excited and revived in this man- ner is in a state of exhaustion and inanition. It is incapable of maintaining its temperature if exposed to cold, and will die unless it repass into the state of hibernation. It may be com- pared to the case of the mouse deprived of food in the following experiment of Mr. Hunter. " A mouse was put into a cold atmosphere of 13° for an hour, and then the thermometer was introduced as before ; but the animal had lost heat, for the quicksilver at the diaphragm was carried only to 83°, in the pelvis to 78°. " In order to determine whether an animal that is awakened has the same powers, with respect to preserving heat and cold, as one that is vigorous and strong, I weakened a mouse by fasting, and then introduced the bulb of the thermometer into its belly; the bulb being at the diaphragm, the quicksilver rose to 97°; in the pelvis to 95°, being two degrees colder than the strong mouse : the mouse being put into an atmosphere as cold as the other, and the thermometer again introduced, the quicksilver stood at 79° at the diaphragm, and at 74° in the pelvis. " In this experiment the heat at the dia- phragm was diminished 18°, in the pelvis 21°. " This greater diminution of heat in the second than in the first, we may suppose pro- portional to the decreased power of the animal, arising from want of food."* But extreme cold alone, by a painful effect induced on the sentient nerves, rouses the hibernating animal from its lethargy, as has been remarked already, and is illustrated by the following experiments of Hunter. " Having brought a healthy dormouse, which had been asleep from the coldness of the atmosphere, into a room in which there was a fire, (the atmosphere at 64°,) I introduced the thermo- meter into its belly, nearly at the middle, be- tween the thorax and pubis, and the quicksilver rose to 74° or 75°; turning the bulb towards the diaphragm, it rose to 80°; and when I ap- plied it to the liver, it rose to 81 §°. " The mouse being placed in an atmosphere at 20°, and left there half an hour, when taken out was very lively, even much more so than when put in. Introducing the thermometer into the lower part of the belly, the quicksilver * Animal (Economy, pp. 114, 115.