INSECTA. 984 larva? of Gyrinidte, in which they are arranged along the sides of each segment as short stiff bristles. This form of branchia? is also said to exist in one solitary species of Lepidoptera, Hydrocampa straiiotata,* and perhaps, also, in the other species of the same genus, in which branchia? of this form exist in the neigh- bourhood of false spiracles. The second kind of branchiae exists in the form of flat, oval, or lanceolate plates, extended from the sides of each segment of the abdo- men, where spiracles afterwards exist in the perfect insect. In some instances, as in the AgrionidtB, these plates exist only at the extre- mity of the abdomen. In others, as in the Ephemerida, they exist both at the sides and at the extremity of the body. This form of branchiae is found only in the Neuroptera and Triclioplera. In many of the latter instances these parts possess also the additional function of being the chief locomotive organs of the insect, and remind us strongly of the branchi- form organs of locomotion in the post-abdo- men of many Crustacea. An anomalous insect, recently discovered by Mr. Hogg as a constant inhabitant of the river- sponge, and an account of which was read by Mr. Westwood at a meeting of the Entomolo- gical Society on the 3rd of December, 1838, possesses a third and most remarkable descrip- tion of branchia. This insect, which was re- ferred by Mr. Westwood to the order Neurop- tera, genus Acentropus, Steph. very much resembles the larva of a neuropterous species, and has filiform branchiae extended from the sides of the abdomen, which are distinctly ar- ticulated, and apparently five-jointed. Mr. Westwood informs us that he has distinctly traced tracheae into the branchia?, and that the open extremity of each vessel protrudes from the tip of the branchiae, so that in this respect these organs resemble elongated spiracles. Very few of those larva? or pupa? that pos- sess branchia? have any lateral spiracles, ex- cepting the Culicida. In some of these, as in the common Gnat, both larva? and pupa? breathe by means of large tracheal vessels, extended outwards to some distance from the head and thorax, while the body is also furnished with filamentous branchia?. The larva of Chiro- nomus, remarkable for its blood-red colour, and which breathes through tubes, is furnished in its pupa state with branchia? f at a part cor- responding to that at which the first spiracles are to appear in the perfect insect. The true Libelluiida have neither lateral nor anal bran- chia?, but, according to Suckow and others, breathe by means of branchia? in the colon. But in these insects, as in the Ephemerida. with lateral branchia?, the acts of respiration are also those of progression; since, although the imbibition and expulsion of water at the anal extremity are regular and constant, even when the insect is remaining perfectly quiet, they are increased both in number and force at every act of locomotion, and carry the body forward * Id. vol. i, pi. xxxvii. t Burmeistcr, p. 167. by darts or sudden impulses. The water is received at the anal orifice by an inspiratory or sucking action, as proved by the circumstance that small particles of substances floating in the water are drawn in with the stream at the anus at each inspiration, and again expelled from it when the water is ejected, and this oc- curs with the greatest regularity. The cavity into which the water is received is a clouca distinct from the proper alimentary canal,, analogous to the respiratory cloaca of the Ho- lothuria and other lower invertebrata. These external organs of respiration all com- municate with elongated trachea?, from which are distributed other branches over the internal structures. In the larva? of all insects these internal respiratory organs are simply ramified tubes, but in perfect insects, and more parti- cularly in volant species, these tubes are di- lated into an immense number of minute vesicles, which not only allow of the most ex- tensive respiration, but also render the body lighter, by enabling the insect to alter its spe- cific gravity during flight. In all insects the vesicles are only dilated trachea?, the structure of which is the same throughout the class. In the larva of the Sphinx and other insects the tracheal vessels consist of two elongated tubes, extended one on each side of the body, and which on their external side communicate by very short tubes with the spiracles, and on their opposite, towards the middle line of the body, give off near each spiracle a large tuft of ves- sels, about twelve in number, which extending inwards are distributed over the different organs within the body. The chief of these are distributed to the alimentary canal, while others pass upwards among the muscles, and ramify most extensively between them, and are given in great abundance to the dorsal vessel. In every segment other branches are extended to the median line above the vessel, and anas- tomose with corresponding branches from the opposite side of the segment. In the head one large branch passes forwards from the pro- thoracic spiracle, and anastomoses with its fellow from the opposite side above the oeso- phagus, behind the brain, and the two thus united then give off four branches, which passing forwards over the brain give off branches that ramify on the surface, and even in the substance of that organ and of the optic nerves. Other branches are given to the muscles of the head, the future antenna?, and the organs of manducation. On the under surface of the body the tracheal vessels dis- tribute themselves among the muscles, as on the dorsal surface, some passing beneath the nervous cord to anastomose with those from the opposite side, while others are distributed to, and ramify extensively over the surface of each gangliated portion ofthe cord, givingoff the most minute branches which penetrate the very sub- stance of the ganglia (fig. 415, i, i), and also that of the nerves themselves, along which other minute branches are extended, so that even the most important and delicate organs of the body are plentifully supplied with tracheal vessels. Other branches of trachea? also pass