EYE. 200 from the lenticular. They never present the stellated appearance frequently observed when the texture of the opaque lens opens in the cap- sule as it does when macerated in water, nor the uniform horny or the milky blue appearance of common lenticular cataract. The opacity in capsular cataract exists in the shape of irregular dots or patches, of an opaque paper-white ap- pearance, and when touched with the needle are found hard and elastic, like indurated cartilage, the spaces between the specks of opacity fre- quently remaining perfectly transparent. It appears to be generally assumed by writers on anatomy that a watery fluid is interposed between the body of the lens and its capsule, from an incidental observation of Morgagni when discussing the difference in density be- tween the surface and centre of the lens; hence it has been called the aqua Morgagni. The observation of this celebrated anatomist, in his Adversaria Anatomica, which has led to the universal adoption of this notion, is, however, merely that upon opening the capsule he had frequently found a fluid to escape. " Deinde eadem tunica in vitulis etiam, bobusque sive recens, sive non ita recens occisis perforata, pluries animadverti, illico humorem quendam aqueum prodire : quod et in homine observare visus sum, atque adeo credidi, hujus humoris secretione prohibita, crystallinum siccum, et opacum fieri fere ut in extracto exsiccatoque crvstallino contingit." He does not, however, subsequently dwell upon or insist upon the point. I do not believe that any such fluid exists in a natural state, but that its accumula- tion is a consequence of loss of vitality; the water combined with the solid parts of the lens escaping to the surface and being detained by the capsule, as occurs in the pericardium and other parts of the body. In the eyes of sheep and oxen, when examined a few hours after death, not a trace of any such fluid can be detected, but after about twenty-four hours it is found in considerable quantity. In the human eye a fluid sometimes accumulates in the capsule, constituting a particular form of cataract, which presses against the iris, and almost touches the cornea; but such eyes are, I believe, always unsound. From this erro- neous notion of an interposed fluid between the lens and its capsule has arisen the adop- tion of an unsustained and improbable conclu- sion, that the lens has no vital connexion with its capsule, and consequently must be produced and preserved by some process analogous to secretion. Respecting this matter I have ob- served, in the paper above alluded to, " The lens has been considered by some as having no connexion with its capsule, and consequently that its formation and growth is accomplished without the assistance of vessels; such a notion is so completely at variance with the known laws of the animal economy, that we are justi- fied in rejecting it, unless supported by un- questionable proof. The only reasons which have been advanced in support of this conclu- sion are, the failure of attempts to inject its vessels, and the ease with which it may be separated from its capsule when that mem- brane is opened. These reasons are far from being satisfactory; it does not necessarily follow that parts do not contain vessels, be- cause vve cannot inject them; we frequently fail when theie can be no doubt of their exist- ence, especially where they do not carry red blood. I have not myself succeeded in in- jecting the vessels of the lens, but I have not repeated the trial so often as to make me despair of accomplishing it, more especially as Albinus, an anatomist whose accuracy is universally acknowledged, asserts, that after a successful injection of the capsule of the lens, he could see a vessel passing into the centre of the lens itself. Lobe, who was his pupil, bears testimony to this. The assertion that the lens is not connected with its capsule, I think I can show to be incorrect; it has been made from want of care in pursuing the inves- tigation, and from a notion that a fluid exists throughout between the lens and its capsule. When the capsule is opened, its elasticity causes it to separate from the lens; especially if the eye be examined some days after death, or has been kept in water, as then the lens swells, and often even bursts the capsule and protrudes through the opening, by which the connexion is destroyed. I have however satis- fied myself that the lens is connected with its capsule (and that connexion by no means slight) by the following method. I remove the cornea and iris from an eye, within a few hours after death, and place it in water, then with a pair of sharp-pointed scissors I divide the capsule all round at the circumference of the lens, taking care that the division is made behind the anterior convexity, so that the lens cannot be retained by any portion of the cap- sule supporting it in front. I next invert the eye, holding it by the optic nerve, when I find that the lens cannot be displaced by agitation, if the eye be sufficiently fresh. In the eye of a young man about six hours dead, I found that, on pushing a cataract needle into the lens, after the anterior part of the capsule had been removed, I could raise the eye from the bottom of the vessel, and even half way out of the water, by the connexion between the lens and its capsule. It afterwards required consider- able force to separate them, by passing the needle beneath the lens, and raising it from its situation. I believe those who have been in the habit of performing the operation of ex- traction, have occasionally encountered consi- derable difficulty in detaching the lens from its situation after the capsule had been freely opened, this difficulty I consider fairly refer- able to the natural connexion just noticed." When the lens enclosed in its capsule is de- tached from the hyaloid membrane, the con- nexion between it and the capsule is destroyed by the handling, and, in consequence, it moves freely within that covering, affording to those who believe that there is no union between the two surfaces fallacious evidence in support of that opinion, which, if not sustained by better proof, should be abandoned. Dr. Young in- sists upon the existence of the natural con- nexion by vessels and even by nerves between