HERNIA. 759 I was to speak from my own experience alone, I should say that though the hernia itself is superficial, the seat of the strangulation is always deep—somewhere at or in the imme- diate neighbourhood of the neck of the sac. I found the opinion partly on the dissection of subjects that had died of the disease, but more particularly on the phenomena I have observed during the progress of an operation on the living: still the experience of one individual can scarcely ever be sufficient to establish a great pathological principle, and there is autho- rity that cannot be questioned for believing that crural hernia is frequently strictured at a far less depth from the surface. Besides the neck of the sac, by which this hernia is con- fessedly strictured in very many cases, Sir A. Cooper places the seat of strangulation, first in the crural sheath and semilunar or lunated edge of the fascia lata, and secondly in the posterior edge of the fascia lata.* Mr. Colles says that the neck or constricted part of crural hernia does not always appear at the same depth from the surface, and explains the cir- cumstance thus : "The hernia having descended into the femoral sheath, it escapes through one of those apertures in it for transmitting the lymphatic vessels, and also passes through a corresponding opening in the iliac portion of the fascia lata. As it passes through a small aperture in each of these parts at nearly the same spot, it must there be liable to great con- striction ; for these two layers of fascia will be compressed together, and thus their strength and resistance be considerably augmented. Hence we should find the seat of stricture in strangulated femoral hernia frequently to be at some distance below and to the pubic side of the crural ring."f The descriptions of Hey and Burns I cannot profess clearly to understand, and I fear they were taken rather from sound subjects than from those in which herriiae were actually present. Scarpa does not distinctly point out the anatomy of the seat of stricture, but from the general bearing of his descriptions, and above all from the anxiety he expresses relative to the danger of wounding the sper- matic artery in operation, which vessel, if pre- sent, must lie close to the neck of the sac, I would hazard an opinion that he believed the seat of strangulation to be always deeply seated. In dissecting this rupture from without, or in operating upon it in the living, it will be found to lie at a different depth from the sur- face, and to possess variety in the number of fascial coverings according to its position with reference to the parts already described. Thus it may be placed within the crural canal, within that triangular space formed by the fascia lata; or having passed beyond its inferior opening or falciform edge, it may present more superficially. In the former case, after the division of the common integuments, the skin and fat, the superficial fascia is exposed and may consist of many layers—at all events * Cooper on Hernia, part ii p. 14. t Colics' Surgical Anatomy, p. 77. of two: next is the dense and resisting fascia lata of the thigh ; and deeper still, the funnel- shaped fascia in which the crural ring is situated. Between this latter and the sac another fascia has been described under the name of the fascia propria, which may be supposed to be formed by a condensation of that cellular tissue already described as occupying the crural ring; but I have never been able to satisfy myself as to the existence of this as a distinct membrane, and I must again caution the young operator not to expect to meet with laminse of fascia as de- scribed or demonstrated by the anatomist. A dexterous and careful dissector may make al- most as many layers of fascia as he pleases. After it has passed the inferior border of the crural canal and appeared more externally, the coverings of fascia to be expected must depend on the view taken of the anatomy of this part. If it is believed that the hernia having cleared this point merely swells out on being relieved from the pressure, without passing or pushing through any of the superincumbent structures, then in order to come down upon the sac it would be necessary to divide the skin and cellular tissue, the different lamina? of the fascia superficialis, the cribriform portion of the fascia lata, the anterior portion of the funnel-shaped fascia, and the fascia propria. If, on the other hand, it is supposed that the hernia has escaped through one of the openings in the femoral sheath, and a corresponding one in the iliac portion of the fascia lata, it will lie more super- ficial by the absence of these investments. In either case the last layer of fascia most adja- cent to the sac is almost always remarkable for density and strength. The general symptoms of this affection are the same with those of inguinal, such as the appearance of the tumour, its diminution or disappearance in the recumbent position, and the impulse imparted to it by coughing, sneez- ing, &c.: its peculiar symptoms are explicable by its anatomical relations. 1. The crural hernia is generally small and its increase slow : the size of the ring and the compression ex- ercised on it by so many superincumbent layers of fascia will be sufficient to account for this, and also will shew why this rupture is almost always painful, and why position has so much effect on it, relief being constantly ob- tained by bending the thigh on the pelvis and rotating the limb inwards. 2. The peculiar manner of growth, its first passing downwards, then forwards, and then upwards and inwards, is caused by the attachment of the funnel-like fascia to the vessels at the superior part of the thigh, and by that of the fascia supeificialis to the fascia lata near the entrance of the saphena vein ; thus its shape is never pyramidal like that of inguinal ; it is globular or oval, and its longest diameter is transverse. 3. I have already mentioned its prevalence amongst females advanced in life. As the testicle is more subject to disease than any structure at the top of the thigh, there are more affections with which scrotal hernia may be confounded; but on the other hand, when a doubt arises on the subject of crural