208 FACE. infra-orbitar) fossa, which gives attachment to the levator anguli oris, and at the upper part of which is seen the infra-orbitar foramen, giving exit to the vessels and nerves of the same name ; 4. the malar ridge, a semicircular crest which descends vertically from the malar pro- cess to the alveolar border of the bone, and divides its facial from its zygomatic surface, which is prominent behind, where it forms the maxillary tuberosity, most conspicuous before the exit of the last molar tooth, which in the child is lodged within it. On this surface are several small holes, (posterior dental fora- mina,) which are the orifices of canals for the posterior and superior dental vessels and nerves. From the upper and front part of the ante- rior surface of the bone a long vertical process {the nasal process) ascends between the nasal and lachrymal bones to be united with the frontal; its external surface is rough, presenting small irregular holes, which transmit vessels to the cancellous interior of the bone and to the nose, and giving attachment to the levator labii superiorisalsque nasi muscle. The internal sur- face of this process is marked with some minute grooves and holes for vessels, and, tracing it from below upwards, by a transverse ridge or crest {the inferior turbinated ridge) for the lower spongy bone; above this by a depres- sion corresponding to the middle meatus; next by a crest (the superior turbinated ridge) for the upper spongy bone of the ethmoid; and above this by a surface which receives and completes some of the anterior ethmoid cells. The nasal process has three borders: i. an anterior, thin and inclined from above downwards and forwards; above, it is cut obliquely from the internal towards the external surface of the bone, and below in the contrary direction, so that this edge of the nasal process and the corresponding border of the nasal bone with which it is united, mutu- ally overlap each other. 2. A posterior border, or surface, thick and divided into two margins by a deep vertical groove (the lachrymo-nasal canal) which contributes to lodge the lachrymal sac above, and the nasal duct below. The direction of the lachrymo-nasal canal is curved from above downwards and outwards ; so that its convexity looks forwards and inwards, and its concavity in the contrary direction. The inner margin of this groove is thin, and is united above to the anterior border of the os unguis, and below to the inferior spongy bone. The outer margin is bounded and gives attach- ment to the tendon and to some of the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum ; it commonly ter- minates below in a little tubercle (the lachrymal tubercle). 3. The upper border of the nasal process, which is short, thick, and irregular, is articulated with the internal angular process of the frontal bone. The orbitar surface of the bone is the small- est; it is quadrilateral, smooth, and slightly concave, with an inclination from above down- wards and from within outwards ; it forms the greater part of the floor of the orbit. Along the middle of its posterior half runs, in a direc- tion forwards and outwards, the infra-orbitar groove, which anteriorly becomes a complete canal {the infra-orbitar canal), and finally divides into an internal or larger canal, which terminates at the infra-orbitar hole in the canine fossa, and into an external or small conduit, which runs in the anterior wall of the antrum, and conveys the superior anterior den- tal nerves to the incisor and canine teeth ; this outer subdivision of the canal presents several varieties in different individuals. The orbitar surface (or plate) has four borders: 1. The posterior, which, free and notched in the mid- dle by the commencement of the infra-orbitar canal, forms with the orbitar plate of the sphe- noid and palate bones the inferior orbitar or the spheno-maxillary fissure. 2. The internal, which articulates from behind forwards succes- sively with the palate, the ethmoid, and the lachrymal bones. 3. The anterior, short and smooth, separates the orbitar from the facial surfaces of the bone; at its inner extremity is the nasal process already described. 4. The external is united to the malar bone; on the outer side of this border is a rough triangular projecting surface (the malar process) which receives the os mala, and which forms an angle of union between the anterior, posterior, and superior surfaces of the upper maxillary bone. The internal or naso-palatine surface is di- vided along the anterior three-fourths into two unequal parts by an horizontal plate of bone {the palatine process): above this is the nasal portion forming the upper three-fourths of this surface, and below it, is the palatine part which forms the remaining fourth. The palatine process forms the anterior three- fourths of the floor of the nose, and roof of the mouth; it presents a smooth upper surface, concave transversely, and nearly flat in the op- posite direction : it is broad behind and narrow in front, where there is placed the orifice of the anterior palatine canal, which takes a direction downwards, forwards, and inwards, unites with the corresponding canal in the opposite bone at the median plane, and forms a common canal {the canulis incisivus), which opens below by a hole {the foramen incisivum) on the roof of the mouth, immediately behind the middle incisor teeth. The anterior palatine canals and the incisive canal, which are often included to- gether under a common name, form a tube re- sembling the letter Y, being bifid above and single below. The inferior surface of the pa- latine process is rough and concave, and forms the anterior and larger part of the roof of the mouth ; its internal border is long and rough, thick in front, narrow behind, and united with the corresponding border of the opposite bone forms the maxillary suture: this border is sur- mounted by a half-furrow which, with that of its fellow bone, forms a groove for the reception of a part of the vomer. The posterior border is short and cut obliquely at the expense of the upper surface ; it supports the anterior margin of the horizontal part of the palate-bone. The pala- tine division of the internal surface of the upper maxillary bone is narrow, and forms part of the arched roof of the mouth ; along its junc- tion with the palatine process is a broad shal-