FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. 305 could not be entertained : the fifth nerve had also been fairly divided: thus far, therefore, his conjecture was disproved. Pursuing his inquiry still further, he found in his next experiment that no indication whatever of pain was manifested by the animal on irritation of the facial on the side on which the fifth nerve had been cut; but in two succeeding experi- ments he ascertained that while irritation of the nerve anterior to the meatus auditorius pro- duced no other effect but spasms of the nasal and labial muscles, when exerted posterior to that point it excited manifest evidence of suf- fering : this latter circumstance he accounts for by the communications of the posterior part of the facial with other sentient nerves besides the fifth, and he has come to the conclusion that the former nerve is not endowed with independent sensibility, but that it derives the property from the fifth and other sentient nerves: this ques- tion, however, requires further investigation.* Relation of the fifth pair of nerves to the special senses.—The organs of the special senses are in the higher classes and in the case of smell, sight, and hearing, each supplied with nerves from at least two sources. Besides the particular nerves, which are generally consi- dered to be the source or medium of the spe- cial sense, they are furnished with branches from the fifth pair; and a question must, at the outset, be asked in regard to the two nerves derived from these different sources, as to which is to be considered the proper nerve of the peculiar sense enjoyed ? In connexion with the two separate nervous supplies, it is also to be observed that each organ enjoys two kinds of sensibility, viz. the special sensibility, through which sensations of the particular sense are received, and the general sensibility, in which the several organs of the body partici- pate, and which is the medium through which impressions of contact are conveyed. The exis- tence of the special sense, the coincidence of the particidar nerve, the impairment or loss of the special function uniformly consequent upon the injury or destruction, whether by disease or otherwise, of that nerve ; and the community both of function and distribution, displayed by the nerve from which the organs of the senses are in common supplied, have led physiologists generally to the conclusion that in each case the particular nerve is the medium of the special sense, and that the fifth nerve confers upon the organs of the spe- cial senses general sensibility only. The con- clusion thus commonly adopted has been at different times called in question : thus Mery and Brunet, in 1697, denied to the nerves of the first pair the function of smell, and attri- * Eschricht, de functionibus nervorum faciei et olfactus organi, Hafn. 1825. | The superficial tem- poral nerve doubtless contributes mainly to supply sensibility to the posterior twigs of the facial : but so much difficulty do some see in satisfactorily accounting for the sensibility of the portio dura, that they find it convenient to discover two roots of oiigin, and a ganglion on one, thus reducing it to the class of compound nerves. See Arnold, Icones capitis nervorum ; also Gaedechcns, nervi facialis physiologia et pathologia.—En.] VOL. II. buted this sense to the fifth nerve * The ques- tion of the connexion between the fifth nerve and the special senses is one of much difficulty, and probably we are not as yet in possession of sufficient data from which to draw a positive conclusion upon it when viewed in all its bear- ings. It resolves itself into three: 1. how far the nerve may be concerned in the perception of special sensations in those cases in which nerves, considered to be specially intended for their perception, exist: 2. how far its co- operation or influence may be necessary to enable the special nerves to fulfil their func- tions: 3. how far it may be capable of taking the place of those special nerves, and of be- coming, under certain conditions, media of perception to sensations, for which, in other cases, peculiar nerves are conferred. We shall review the relation of the nerve to the several senses in succession, bearing in mind the three points to which our attention is to be directed. That it is a medium of perception in the case of two senses, viz. touch and taste, is already so universally acknowledged that it is unneces- sary to dwell upon the point. The importance of the fifth nerve in the three other senses of smell, sight, and hearing, has been advocated by several physiologists, and more particularly by Magendie, who ap- pears disposed to view the fifth nerve as the source or medium of all the three. His appli- cation of this doctrine, however, has reference more particularly to the sense of smelling, upon which he has performed a series of expe- riments, of which the following is a summary: he destroyed entirely the olfactory nerves within the cranium, and he found the animal still sensible to strong odours, such as ammonia, acetic acid, essential oil of lavender. The sen- sibility of the interior of the nasal cavity had lost nothing of its energy; the introduction of a stylet had the same effect as upon a dog which had not been touched. This experiment he performed several times, and always with the same results. He next divided the fifth nerves within the cranium, of course before they had given branches to the nostrils, and found all trace of the action of strong odours to disappear. He hence concluded that smell, in so far as pungent smells are con- cerned, is exercised by the branches of the fifth pair, and that the first is not concerned in the function. To this conclusion he himseli starts the objection that the agents used are not odours, properly speaking, but chemical, pun- gent, irritating vapours, and that by the section of the fifth we destroy not the sense of smell, but only the sensibility of the membrane of the nose to these irritating vapours, and he admits the force of the objection with respect to some of the vapours alluded to ; but he denies that it will apply to the oil of lavender or that of Dippel, the effect of which in the experiments is the same. In order to remove the difficulty he destroyed the olfactory nerves of a dog of particularly fine nose, and then enclosing por- tions of food of various kinds in paper, he * See Journal Complementaire, v. 20. x