INSECTA. 962 but this opinion is not borne out by the physi- cal condition of these parts, which, in almost every instance, is unadapted for such purpose, being covered by a hard bony exterior. In some instances the extremities of the palpi are covered with a soft bulb-like extremity, while in many others which are known to perceive the quality of food very quickly, they yet have the extremities of the part covered with a hard imperforate structure. As to the seat of the organ of smell we are quite as ignorant of it as of that of taste. Cuvier and some others have imagined that the faculty of smelling resides in the mucous lining of the spiracles at the sides of the body, but ex- periment has still left the question undecided. From the few observations we have been able to make on this subject we certainly have been led to conclude that it is confined to some part of the head, and not seated at the different spiracles. Tlie development of the, brain and nervous cvrd during the metamorphoses exhibits some of the most curious alterations of form that take place in any structure. These changes were first traced by Ilerold in the great cabbage-butterfly, Pontia Brassiccc, and sub- sequently by the writer of the present article in the privet hawk-moth, Sphinx ligustri* and also in the nettle-butterfly, Vanessa urtiece. We have seen from the foregoing details, that during the last period of the larva slate, at which time the insect has been most frequently examined, certain changes of form have al- ready taken place in different parts of the cord, so that these changes of structure, which at first appear to be effected so rapidly at a cerlain period, have been for a long time in progress. We have seen that, besides the la- teral approximation of the cords, the first change consists in an union of the eleventh and twelfth ganglia, the latter one being carried forwards; and that, although a complete co- alescence of these has sometimes taken place so early as a day or two before the caterpillar casts its last skin, yet even at that period the cere- bral ganglia have scarcely become united above the oesophagus. At a still earlier period, when the larva has not yet cast its third skin, we have found the eleventh ganglia perfectly distinct from the twelfth, with a small intervening por- tion of cord, and the cerebral ganglia scarcely touching each other above the oesophagus, and the distance, or extent of cord, between the fourth and fifth ganglia much greater than at the subsequent period when the insect is pre- paring to change into the pupa state. We had commenced our observations on these changes in the nervous system on the larva and pupa of the Sphinx, when it appeared desirable also for various reasons to make similar observations on an insect in which these changes were commenced and completed within a short and known period, and for that purpose selected the commonest of our native insects, the nettle-butterfly, Vanessa urtiete, which undergoes its changes within fourteen days. The Sphinx remains in the pupa state * Phil. Trans, pt. 2. 1832, 1834. during the whole winter, by which we are enabled to compare the same changes in an insect in which they have taken place slowly with those in another in which they have been completed more rapidly, and the extent of development at the completion of both is in- variably found to be the same. In order to observe these changes correctly, a large number of the caterpillars was collected at the period when they have ceased to feed, and are about to suspend themselves to undergo their trans- formation, and the moment was carefully watched both when they suspended them- selves preparatory to undergoing their meta- morphoses, and also when they were in the act of assuming the pupa state. By these means a sufficient number of specimens was obtained, and their periods of transformation accurately known. Previously to commencing these ob- servations on the nettle-butterfly, we had noticed in the pupa of the Sphinx a very singular ap- pearance at the base of each optic nerve, which on close inspection was found to be a dark- coloured membrane of an ovate form, from which is developed the choroid of the future eye. The existence of this spot is exceedingly interesting as illustrating the manner in which the complicated organ of vision in the perfect insect is developed. This spot, which at first appears like a dark gelatiniform deposit, con- sists of five black tubercular elevations, having the appearance of so many parts of a corru- gated membrane, and exists before the larva has changed into a pupa. We have never found it absent in any insect that is about to change, but have not observed it until the insect has ceased to feed. Two hours after the larva of Vanessa urticic has suspended itself to undergo its transform- ation, and in which state it remains from six to eight, ten, or even twenty-four hours, according to the strength of the individual and other cir- cumstances, before it throws off its last larva skin a considerable alteration has already taken place in the body of the larva; the cerebral lobes are still distinct from each other, but are a little altered in form, although not yet enlarged. When viewed from above they exhibit a pear- shaped appearance, the anterior part of the lateral surface of each being elongated to give origin to the antennal and optic nerves. At the base of the latter, even at this early period, the dark rudimentary choroid is very distinct. The sub-cesophageal ganglion is enlarged to nearly twice its original size, and the crura are much enlarged and shortened, as well as the cords that connect the second, third, fourth, and fifth ganglia. The last two are separated only by a short interval. The fifth, sixth, and seventh ganglia are drawn closer together, the cords between them disposed in an irregular ziz-zag manner, and the longitudinal direction of the ganglia is in consequence altered. The ganglia from the seventh to the terminal one remain as in the active larva. By unremittingly watching a number of larva through all their preparatory stages, we are enabled to judge within a very short period when the transformation will take place. A little while before the old skin is thrown off