ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 787 Fig. 309. grew to the cotyloid ligament at the notch, as is usual, and had no other connexion with the acetabulum, which contained no Haversian gland, and was not lined by cartilage. The coty- loid ligament was very flat and imperfect. Bones.—-In the general aspect of the bones of the pelvis and of the femur, there existed a very striking resemblance between this case and the former detailed. The os innominatum of the left or deformed side, together with the femur and other bones of the left lower ex- tremity, were much smaller than the os inno- minatum and bones of the right lower ex- tremity ; the former, besides being deformed, were also in a state of atrophy in circumference and length, while the latter were evidently larger and better nourished than one would expect to find them in so delicate an individual. In a word, there was a compensatory growth of the skeleton on the right side, as it were to make up for the deficient growth of the left or mal- formed side. The head of the right femur and the corresponding acetabulum were both very large, the right half of the pelvis too, in all its bony prominences, was well marked, and the anterior spines of the ilium were inverted ; the inter-vertebral substance intervening between the last lumbar vertebra and base of the sacrum was much thicker than usual. Section II. Disease.—The abnormal ap- pearances we notice in the articulation of the hip, produced by disease, are usually the result of inflammation, which may have been either acute or chronic; arising either in the synovial membrane, the cartilage, or the bone. Indeed, in modern works on the diseases of the joints, we have laid down for us rather positively the symptoms and anatomical characters of syno- vitis, chondritis, and osteitis ; but much as we would wish to adopt an arrangement that the pathology of Pinel and Bichat would suggest, and which comes commended to us by the ex- perience of Brodie, we do not think that this arrangement can be strictly adhered to. In acute rheumatic arthritis, we have the synovial or fibro-synovial structures of the articulation engaged, with little, if any, implication of the cartilage or bone, but in any of the cases com- monly denominated "disease of the hip," the inflammation, as far as our experience has gone, never long confines itself to any one structure entering into the composition of the joint. In a work, however, like this, the opinions of the highest authorities on such a question must be quoted. According to Sir Benjamin Brodie,* synovitis coxae, or inflammation of the syno- vial membrane of the hip-joint, may take place in different degrees of intensity ; but for the most part it has the form of a chronic or slow affection, which, while it impairs, does not de- stroy the functions of the articulation. In the hip, less frequently than in other joints, is the fluctuation of the effused fluid perceived, but the existence of swelling is sufficiently evident beneath the muscles : there is fulness of the groin and pain, which is not " referred to the knee, as in cases of ulceration of cartilage, but to the upper and inner part of the thigh, im- mediately below the origin of the adductor longus ; the weight can be borne on the af- fected limb, and pressure against the heel gives no pain ; this (the pain) is often severe, yet it does not amount to that excruciating sensation which exhausts the powers and spirits of the patient, in whom the cartilages of the hip are ulcerated." The following case Sir B. Brodie adduces as an example of inflammation of the synovial membrane of the hip, terminating in disloca- tion. Master L.,f being at that time about eight years of age, was attacked towards the end of September, 1824, with what was believed at the time to be inflammation of one of the parotid glands, attended with a good deal of fever; after six or seven days, and appa- rently in consequence of the application of cold lotions to the cheek, the inflammation left the parotid gland, and attacked one shoulder and arm ; and at the end of two or three days more it left the shoulder and attacked one of the hips. For six or eight weeks he suffered most severely from pain referred to the inside of the thigh, extending from the pubes as low down as within two or three inches of the inner con- dyle of the femur, and attended with a great deal of fever. There was no pain in the knee. The surgeon who was then in attendance ap- plied leeches to the hip, lotions, &c. &c, and afterwards made an issue with caustic behind the great trochanter. The fluctuation of fluid was perceived at the posterior part of the hip; and it was supposed that an abscess had formed ; however, no puncture was made, and the fluid gradually became absorbed. In March, 1825, Master L. was sufficiently well to be able to walk about, but it was discovered that the limb was shortened. In November, 1825, Sir B. Brodie was consulted respecting him ; at this time there were all the marks of a dislocation of the hip upwards and outwards, the limb was shortened, the toes turned in- wards, and the head of the femur was distinctly to be felt on the posterior part of the ilium, above the margin of the acetabulum. Now, if we may be permitted to give an * On Diseases of the Joints, 3d edit, t Case XI. Brodie, page 51, 3d edition. 3 F 2