ORGANS OF GENERATION. 418 in which the eggs are frequently hatched. Near its termination the oviduct communicates with a glandular apparatus supposed to furnish the viscid envelope by means of which the eggs are generally agglutinated together. In the Cephalopoda likewise, as in the Mol- lusca generally, the generative system is single. In this class the testis is an azygos viscus, composed of elongated branched cceca, in- closed in a membranous capsule, into which apparently the seminal fluid escapes. The vas deferens is narrow, and convoluted at first, but afterwards it enlarges and becomes mus- cular in its structure, serving doubtless as an instrument for the expulsion of the semen. This seminal canal receives the duct of a large glandular mass, and dilating into a pouch, ultimately terminates at the root of a rudi- mentary penis, apparently adapted to intro- mission, although it has not yet been ascer- tained whether actual copulation takes place, or whether the ova are fecundated after their extrusion, as is the case with fishes. In the female Cephalopoda the ovarium, like the testis of the male, is azygos, and placed in the same situation. Its structure is remark- able, being a strong capsule, to the interior of which adheres a. cluster of vesicular bodies denominated ovisacs, from which, at certain seasons, the ova escape. From the ovarian capsule arises the oviduct; this is in some instances a single tube, but in others divides into two canals; in either case, before its ter- mination behind the base of the syphon, it passes through a thick laminated glandular structure, which secretes the dense coriaceous investment enclosing the ova, and the material which unites them into the racemose clusters in which they are usually found. Verlebrata Ovipara.—In the vertebrate divi- sion of the animal kingdom the generative system presents great varieties, although from the lower to the higher orders we may distinctly trace a series of gradations which, in a physio- logical point of view, are of the highest interest. In Fishes the ovaria are formed upon two distinct types. In the osseous fishes they are for the most part two large membranous sacs, which, when distended, occupy a considerable share of the abdominal cavity; these open by a short canal in the vicinity of the anus. In these capacious sacs the ova are developed : they are found united, together by a delicate membrane, and attached in numerous festoons to the walls of the ovary until sufficiently mature for expul- sion, when, breaking loose from their con- nexions, they escape into the ovarian cavity and are discharged through its excretory duct. In this case the Fallopian tubes found in other vertebrata do not exist, the oviduct being pro- longed from the ovary itself in the same manner as the duct of a secreting gland, and the whole apparatus, in fact, strongly resembles what we have found in the Conchifera and other Mol- lusks, the great distinction consisting in the necessity which here exists for the impregnation of the ova by the agency of the male. The fecundation of the eggs is effected externally, after their expulsion, and, in fact, it is the spawn rather than the female, which forms the object of the pursuit of the male, as in most instances both sexes appear as careless con- cerning each other as they are of the off- spring which they produce. The ova, which are incalculably numerous, are deposited in shallow water, where they may receive the influence of the solar beams, and in this situa- tion are eagerly sought after by the males destined to make them fertile; these, urged apparently by the necessity of ridding them- selves of an inconvenient load, discharge the secretion of their voluminous testes into the water, which, becoming diffused in the vicinity of the ova, is sufficient for their impregnation. In the males of this class of fishes the testes are of enormous size, equalling in bulk the ovaria of the other sex, and occupying a corres- ponding situation in the abdomen. Each testis is made up of a congeries of seminal canals, which, when inflated through the excretory duct, distend the whole organ. The seminal tubes are in most instances arranged parallel to each other, and are closed at one extremity while the other terminates in the common canal or vas deferens, which in every respect resem- bles the oviduct of the female. This is the most usual structure of the male apparatus of fishes, but in some, as in the Shad (C/upea Alosa), the seminiferous tubes form innumerable ramifications and anastomoses in the substance of the testicle, easily discernible by the naked eye; and from the plexus thus produced ccecal tubes are prolonged to the sur- face of the organ, where they terminate by rounded extremities, giving the whole viscus, externally, a granulated appearance. (Fig. 204.) A few of the osseous fishes form remarkable exceptions to the usual mode of impregnation, the ova of the female being in such fecundated prior to their expulsion by actual copulation with the male; and in some rare instances, as in the Blennins viviparus, the young are even produced alive, the ova being retained within the oviduct until they are hatched. In such cases the termination of the vas deferens swells into an external projection resembling a rudi- mentary penis, and, indeed, actually performing the office of an organ of intromission. In the more highly organized cartilaginous fishes, and even in some osseous genera, the structure of the generative system is entirely different, commencing that type which charac- terizes the reproductive organs of all the other vertebrate classes. In these the ovaria are not hollow sacs which have their cavity prolonged to the exterior of the body, but the ova are developed between layers of membrane sus- pended in the abdomen, which are unprovided with any canal immediately communicating with them. Such are the ovaria of the Eel and the Lamprey, which are formed of nume- rous festoons of delicate and vascular membrane suspended in front of the spine. The ova pro- duced between these membranous layers when mature break loose into the cavity of the abdomen, and are discharged through a simple orifice in the neighbourhood of the anus. In