FASCIA. 230 The arrangement to which we allude in the fascia of the neck may be satisfactorily traced from the median line on the anterior surface of the neck, proceeding outwards on each side. On the median line the fascia; of opposite sides are intimately united so as to form a dense line, called by some anatomists liiiea alba cervkulis; thence on each side the fascia divides into laminae, investing the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, the carotid artery and jugular vein, the sterno-mastoid, and other muscles; and thus anatomists come to describe a superficial and a deep layer of the cervical fascia; the former being continuous with the superficial fascia covering the muscles on the anterior part of the thorax, the latter, intimately con- nected with all the deep-seated structures in the neck, may be traced outwards behind the sterno-mastoid muscle, along the posterior edge of which it becomes again united with the su- perficial layer; the fascia, thus re-constructed, passes through the triangular space which in- tervenes between the muscle last-named and the trapezius, and may be traced over that muscle to become continuous with the superfi- cial fascia on the back. It is the deep layer of this fascia which was described by Godman of Philadelphia* as passing downwards behind the sternum to be continuous with the fibrous pericardium. This description has been sub- sequently confirmed by more than one anato- mist in France, although denied by Cru- veilhier, and in this country by Sir Astley Cooper,t who has described it in the same manner, apparently without being acquainted with the previously recorded statements of the anatomists above referred to; I may add that I have myself in many instances proved the accuracy of Godman's description. The cer- vical fascia is continuous superiorly with the superficial fascia on the face; and inferiorly, besides tracing it into the pectoral region, we can follow it over the shoulder into the arm. The cervical fascia, in a great part of its extent, is not, as the superficial fascia elsewhere, in intimate connexion with the subcutaneous cel- lular tissue, but is separated from it on each side of the neck by the fibres of the platysma myoides. From this brief account of the cervi- cal fascia, (we refer for the more particular description to the article on the surgical ana- tomy of the Neck,) we learn one characteristic of the superficial fascia, namely, its continuity all over the body. The superficial fascia of the abdomen has attracted the attention of anatomists and sur- geons from its connexion with all herniary tumours in that region. I n its arrangement it is much less complex than the cervical fascia, being a uniform membranous expansion spread oVer the superficial muscular and aponeurotic structures of the abomen, continuous on either side and posteriorly with the superficial fascia of the lumbar regions, and inferiorly with that of the inferior extremities. See the description of it in the article Abdomen. * Anatomical Investigations, Philiidclph. 1821. \ On ihr thymus gland. The superficial fascia of the limbs is com- pletely confounded with the subcutaneous cel- lular tissue, and wants that condensation by which on the trunk generally, but particularly in the neck and abdomen, it is distinguished. There can be no doubt that the superficial fascia is no more than condensed cellular mem- brane, and its variety of appearance in different regions depends in a great measure upon pecu- liarities in the motions and arrangement of the parts contained in those regions, e.g. wherever the muscles of a part are in very frequent ac- tion, and at the same time the fascia is com- pressed between the integument and the mus- cles, it sutlers condensation ; this is conspicuous in the abdomen, where there is almost incessant muscular action in consequence of the respi- ratory movements, and where the weight of the viscera, thrown forwards in the erect posture, occasions a considerable pressure upon the an- terior and lateral portions of the abdoniii;al parietes. The deposition of adeps to any great extent is unfavourable to the existence of a distinct fascia superficialis, which is thereby, as it were, decomposed, and hence this fascia is not distinct from the subcutaneous cellular tissue in those regions where, either habitually or preternaturally, this substance is largely de- posited. The superficial fascia is identified with the subcutaneous cellular membrane in the cranial regions, a circumstance which seems attributa- ble to the firm adhesion of the aponeurotic ex- pansion of the occipito-frontalis muscle to the subcutaneous tissue, and also the cutaneous insertion of other muscles ; to a similar cause we may ascribe the indistinctness of this fascia in the face also, as likewise to the great depo- sition of fat in some parts of this region. In the pectoral region it is attenuated, and is more intimately connected with the proper cellular covering of the great muscles than with the subcutaneous cellular tissue. Where the superficial fascia has suffered condensation to a considerable extent, and there is a complete absence of adipose sub- stance, it assumes an appearance which has given rise to the designation " fibro-cellular," in consequence of the existence of thick, white, and opaque bundles intersecting the membrane in various directions; these bundles seem to be produced by the close application of the walls of the cells to each other, and the conse- quent obliteration of their cavities. This, how- ever, I believe is the nearest approach that the superficial fascia makes to fibrous membrane ; and I am strongly disposed to question the accuracy of Velpeau's assertion, that it is some- times transformed into the yellow fibrous or into muscular tissue. The elastic abdominal ex- pansion, described by Girard, is certainly not a conversion of the superficial fascia, but of the muscular aponeurosis. Among the cellular fasehe, Velpeau* de- scribes a layer of cellular membrane, pretty uniform in its characters, and in some localities of great practical importance, and gives it the * Anat. Chiiurg. t. i. p. 42.