661 ANIMAL HEAT. the interior being prevented from escaping by means of a circular pad of soft napkins placed between the edge of the outlet and the neck. The temperature of the mouth, in this way, if it was increased, must be increased in consequence of a rise of temperature in the parts of the body included in the bath. After a stay of seventeen minutes in the bath, heated from 37°, 5 to 48°, 75 c. (99° to 120° F.), the temperature of M. Delaroche's mouth rose 3°, 12 c. Under similar circumstances, the temperature of the bath being from 40° to 41°, 25 c. (104° to 106° F.), the temperature of M. Berger's mouth increased 1°, 7 c. in the course of fifteen minutes. It is pretty obvious that experiments upon the human subject cannot be pushed far enough to ascertain the highest amount of temperature that can be acquired under the influence of exposure to air of excessively high tempera- ture. To judge of this analogically, recourse must be had to warm-blooded animals of the two classes, Mammalia and Birds. Messrs. Delaroche and Berger consequently exposed different species of Mammalia and Birds to dry hot air of different temperatures, from 50° to 03°, 75 c. (122° to 201° P.), leaving them im- mersed till they died. The whole of the ani- mals that were made subjects of experiment, in spite of diversity of class and species, and of the varieties of temperature to which they were exposed, had gained an increase of tem- perature nearly equal at the moment of their death. The limits of the variations being be- tween the terms 6°, 25 and 7°, 18 c, the amount of difference did not exceed 0°, 93 c. which is a very triflingquantity. It may therefore be inferred that man and the warm-blooded animals cannot, under the influence of exposure to dry air of excessively high temperature, have the heat of their body raised during life to a greater extent than from 7° to 8° c. The temperature of the body being increased to this extent becomes fatal. It is in fact only attained at the moment of dissolution ; perhaps death has virtually taken place before it is attained. We have seen that Franklin observed the temperature of his body to be lower than that of the air on a very hot day. Such a circum- stance is rare in what may be called natural con- ditions as regards man and the warm-blooded animals ; inasmuch as" it rarely happens that the temperature of the air surpasses that of their bodies generally. The case is different, however, as regards the cold-blooded tribes. It is not at all necessary that the temperature of the air be very high to afford opportunities of observing the phenomenon in question among cold-blooded animals. This was ob- served for the first time by Sir Charles Blagden in a frog, which on a summer's day, when the heat was by no means excessive, he observed to be lower in temperature than the surrounding air. A fact of this kind could not remain isolated and unconnected with others. Accord- ingly we observe among the experiments of Dr. Davy such facts as the following:—The temperature of the atmosphere being 32° c. (90° F.), that of a tortoise was only 29°, 4 (85° F.). The air marking 26°, 7 (80° F.), a frog indicated 25° (77° F.). The air being at 28°, 3 (83° F.), the blatta orientalis was at 23°, 9 (75° F.). The air at 26°, 19 c, (79°, 5 F.), a scorpion was at 25°, 3 (78° F.). It is therefore apparent that the phenomenon is general among animals with cold blood ; that during the highest heats of summer, the tem- perature still falling short of excessive, the heat of their bodies is below that of the air. There is thus a limit of summer temperature which separates two orders of phenomena relative to the temperature of cold-blooded animals. Starting from a mean temperature of the air, that of cold-blooded animals, the vertebrate as well as the invertebrate tribes, is superior to this mean, only varying in this respect within the narrow limits of from a few fractional parts of a degree to about four degrees centigrade, until the air attains the summer heat. Towards this limit the differences decrease, and the term 25° or 26° c. (77° to 79° F.)attained, they become nil. The inverse phenomenon is also observed : the temperature of the greater num- ber is inferior to that of the air, and the dif- ferences go on increasing with the rise in temperature of the external air. These phenomena are of great interest in themselves, but of still greater from the light they cast on questions of a similar kind relative to man and the warm-blooded tribes of crea- tion. The slight evolution of heat by the cold- blooded animals rendering their condition more simple, allows us to appreciate distinctly the influence of external causes. We now proceed to tieatof a third condition influencing temperature, namely, Evaporation.—The fluids so far surpass the solids in the bodies of animals that they cer- tainly constitute the larger portion of their masses; and, further, the exterior surface of animal bodies generally is extremely porous. Animals are consequently subjected to the ordinary physical laws of evaporation. It is very long since, in addition to the sweat Di- visible perspiration, the existence of an invisible perspiration has been recognized. The latter is owing in great part to the effects of evaporation. Now evaporation cannot take place without the occurrence of cooling or loss of temperature in the ratio of the quantity of vapour formed. Without keeping this cause of refrigeration in view, we should fall into serious mistakes in estimating the heat of animals. If, for ex- ample, we would compare the heat of two animals, which, unwittingly to the observer, should be under different conditions of eva- poration, we should deceive ourselves greatly in regard to their respective temperatures. It is even so with reference to another fact bearing upon temperature, which is often forced on the attention, and which has almost always led inquirers into error. There are many ani- mals among the inferior classes of the Inverte- brata, which tried by the thermometer exhibit no difference in temperature from that of the surrounding air. These creatures do not con- sequently, appear to have any faculty of pro- ducing heat. But in the mere fact of their main-