30 echinodermata. filiform,and almost invisible, when empty; but they are susceptible of great dilatation, and are sometimes seen filled with water or dis- tended with smaller animalcules seized as food. Viewed through the microscope these minute animals present very different appearances, ac- cording to the quantity and kind of food con- tained in their ccecal appendices, and from this circumstance twelve different species of animal- cules, belonging to six supposed distinct genera, have been formed of the single vorticella con- vallaria. No glandular organs to assist in digestion have been observed in the polygastric animalcules ; and notwithstanding their almost invisible minuteness and the great simplicity of their structure, they appear to be the most numerous, the most active, the most prolific, and the most voracious of all living beings. Very recently, by the aid of an improved mi- croscope made at Berlin, Ehrenberg has been able to detect a dental apparatus in the kolpoda cucullulus of Muller, one of these minute poly- gastric animalcules, which shews a further ana- logy between them and the helminthoid articu- lata. Notwithstanding the number of stomachs in this class of animals, and the infinite variety Of prey which commonly surround them, we often observe them devouring animals, which from their magnitude are incapable of being conveyed into these cavities. I have observed a trachelitis, after swallowing several monads which swarmed around it, proceed slowly to swallow down a trkhoda, which appeared to be ten times the size of one of its internal sacs. It took about a minute to swallow the trkhoda, after having turned it in different directions with its long transparent moveable upper lip. The prey could not be perceived to offer the slightest resistance, while the trachelitis, with its upper lip spread over the small anterior end of the trkhoda, gradually advanced and ex- panded the short lower lip to embrace it below. The body of the trachelitis was much shortened during this prolonged act, being drawn forwards towards the lips, and the animalcule, become slower in its movements, was sensibly distended on one side by this large prey in the intestine; but in less than half an hour it had recovered its usual lengthened form and gliding move- ments, and was seen to seize again the smaller monads around it. Ehrenberg has figured an enchelys swallowing a loxodes ten times the size of its stomachs even when filled with car- mine, and in the body of the loxodes he has represented navic'iiRe which have been swal- lowed, though several times the size of any of its stomachs distended with sap-green. In the capacious alimentary cavity of the paramacium chrysalis I have found a constant slow revolu- tion of the whole contents, like the cyclosis in the large cells of a chara, and the round sacs appear often to be driven to and fro like loose balls in a sac. Baron Gleichen has figured some of these round sacs of Ehrenberg separate from the animalcules, as a bolus of matter which had escaped per anum. These round transparent bodies are often hurried to one end of the animalcule's body and then to the oppo- site, or spread generally through the cavity, and they sometimes join partially in the general internal cyclosis of the abdominal cavity. In many genera of polygastric animalcules a cir- cular proboscis is seen around the mouth, composed of long parallel straight teeth closely applied to each other, which can be extended or retracted, and forms their masticating appa- ratus. (For the higher forms of the alimentary canal in all the separate classes of the animal king- dom, see the names of the several classes from the Porifera to the Mammalia, Animal Kingdom, and the preceding article Diges- tion.) (R. E. Grant.) ECHINODERMATA, (e^.™?, echinus— ^fj/xa, coriu/n,) Fr. Echinodermes. A class of invertebrate animals belonging to the di- vision lladiata or the Cycloneurose sub-king- dom. The most familiar examples of them are the common sea-urchin and star-fish. In these the skin is covered with prickles, a circumstance from which the class has received its name; but animals of corresponding in- ternal structure, such as the Holothuria, are also comprehended among the Echinodermata, although the skin is destitute of prickles. They are all inhabitants of the sea, examples of them are found in all climates, and the remains of extinct species exist in a fossil state in various mineral strata. Naturalists are not agreed as to the limits of this class. Cuvier includes in it two orders of animals; the first provided with tubular retractile organs named feet, the second desti- tute of feet, but allied, he conceives, to the first in other respects. Other zoologists separate this second order of Cuvier from the Echinoder- mata. But in fact these apodous animals, comprehending the genera Molpadia, Minyas, Priapulus, and Sipunculus, are as yet so im- perfectly known, at least as regards their in- ternal structure, that naturalists seem at a loss to discover their appropriate place in the zoo- logical system. In these circumstances we shall confine ourselves to the consideration of the true or pedicellate Echinodermata, of whose systematic arrangement the following is a tabu- lar view. Order I. ASTEROIDEA or STELLE- RIDA. Body depressed, divided into rays like a star, or at least with prominent angles. Mouth inferior, generally no anus. a. Holes for the feet disposed in grooves on the inferior surface. Genus 1. Asterias, (figs- 298 vol. i. 7-22.) b. No grooves for the feet. Genus 2. Ophiura. Rays simple, elon- gated, cirrhous, with lateral spines. Genus 3. Euryale. Rays long, cir- rhous, divided dichotomously. Genus 4. Comatula. Rays in two sets, dorsal and marginal. The dor- sal rays simple, filiform, cirrhous. The marginal much larger and pin- nated, their inferior pinnules turned