FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. 295 leeth themselves. J. Hunter, however, has stated in his work on the teeth, that he has never succeeded in tracing nerves into the fangs, and the experience of the writer, so far as it extends, tends to confinn the doubt thus ex- pressed; he has frequently traced the filaments to the structure at the root of the fang, but never into the fang, and in the jaw of the fcetal calf they may be found distributed in number upon the membrane of the pulp, but he has not been able to follow them into the pulp itself. The filaments sent into the gums from the dental nerves, superior as well as inferior, traverse the alveolar arch, escape from the bone upon its gingival aspect, and at once enter the gum : they are well represented by Arnold. The final branches of the inferior maxillary nerve are the inf erior labial, internal and exter- nal. Of these the internal is the larger; it ascends toward the mouth, inclining inward, and breaks up into a great number of ramifica- tions, which are distributed to the depressor labii inferioris, the depressor anguli oris, the orbicularis, and the levator menti, also to the integument and internal membrane of the lip, and to the labial glands; they anastomose with branches of the inferior division of the portio dura. The external inclines toward the angle of the mouth; it also gives off a great number of ramifications, distributed to the depressor anguli, the orbicularis, and the insertion of the muscles at the angle, the integument, and internal membrane of the lip, and the labial glands; it also anastomoses with branches of the portio dura. The Ungual branch of the third division.— The situation and relative size and position of the lingual and inferior maxillary branches in the first part of their course, have been already described. Having crossed the internal maxil- lary artery, the lingual branch pursues its course downward, forward, and inward, passing first between the pterygoid muscles in the manner described, and then between the internal ptery- goid and the ramus of the jaw, until it has reached the anterior margin of that muscle; during this part of its course it is at first separated from the inferior maxillary nerve by the internal lateral ligament, which is placed between them, the lingual branch internal, the maxillary external to it, and afterward it is situate anterior and superior to the mylohyoid branch of the maxillary. Having reached the margin of the pterygoid it emerges from between the muscle and the jaw, immediately behind the posterior extremity of the mylohyoid ridge, and enters into the digastric or submaxillary space, in which it is among the parts most deeply situate; within this space it continues to run forward and inward, until, at the anterior extremity, it attaches itself to the under surface of the tongue, and is prolonged by one of its branches to the extremity of that organ. During its course through the digastric space, it is at first left uncovered by the muscles inferiorly, and in the interval between the margin of the pterygoid and that of the mylohyoid, where it is situate betwee» the mucous membrane of the mouth and the posterior extremity of the submaxillary gland; it then passes internal to the mylohyoid muscle, between it and the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus, and genio-glossus, and is at the same time contained in a triangu- lar or wedge-shaped space, the base of which is above and the apex below; this space is bounded above by the mucous membrane of the mouth, externally by the mylohyoid muscle, and internally by the hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, and genio-glossus muscles. In it are contained the sublingual gland, the deep process of the submaxillary and the duct of that gland with the lingual branch of the fifth and the ninth nerves; in the anterior part and superiorly, immediately beneath the mucous membrane, is situate the sublingual gland; at the posterior and rather inferiorly the deep process of the submaxillary; while the nerves and the duct are placed at the posterior or external part of the lingual branch of the fifth above, imme- diately beneath the mucous membrane; the ninth below, along, and above the cornu of the os hyoides, and the duct between the nerves; but as the three parts pass forward, the duct and lingual branch cross each other, the nerve descending, the duct ascending be- tween the nerve and the hyo-glossus, and in consequence of this circumstance, at the ante- rior part of the space, the duct is superior, the lingual branch is intermediate, and the ninth nerve is below. At first the lingual branch is above the deep process of the submaxillary gland, then it is situate internal and superior to it, external and inferior to the duct; as it pro- ceeds, it is beneath the sublingual gland, and, lastly, it ascends internal to that gland, between it and the genio-glossjj^4e£e*der to reach the tongue. j\s\^*~ ^Sfir At the posterior part of the space, the nerve is immediately beneath the mucous membrane; as it proceeds it descends from, but toward the anterior part again ascends, and is in con- tact with the membrane as it becomes attached to the tongue. Having reached the anterior margin of the hyo-glossus the nerve breaks up into three branches, posterior, middle, and anterior. Of these the posterior is the shortest, and ascends almost directly; the middle runs upward and forward, and the anterior, which is much longer than, and at the same time inferior to the others, almost directly forward, along the under surface of the tongue, between the genio- glossus and the stylo-glossus; the former muscle internal, the latter external to it. In its course beneath the tongue it is accompanied by the ranine artery, which joins it at the anterior margin of the hyo-glossus, and is situate inferior to it, immediately above the mucous membrane. The lingual nerve does not give off many branches in the first part of its course: soon after its origin it receives the branch of com- munication, by which the inferior dental nerve is connected to it. About the same point or presently after it is also joined by the chorda tympani. The uncertainty which has prevailed with regard to the source of this nerve renders