652 ANIMAL HEAT. the greatest possible number of phenomena connected with animal heat; and in determin- ing the physiological conditions of its produc- tion, we shall lay up a store of theoretical knowledge peculiarly applicable to practice, the end and object of all physiological inves- tigation. The means of comparing these modifications, however, and of judging of their importance are not always easy. We shall do as much as the actual state of our knowledge permits if we inquire first, by what means we can ap- preciate the modifications relative to the arterial blood. 1. As regards the quantity of the arterial blood, we shall view this point of the inquiry less with reference to the whole amount of blood circulating in the body, than to the quantity which is formed at a time, as it were, in the lungs; because it is evident that if the arterial blood influences the phenomenon of heat, the more that is formed at any given time the greater ought to be the direct or in- direct influence upon the production of heat. a. As it is not always possible to have a direct and precise measure of the relative quantity of blood in the organs, we must be content with an approximative mode of estimating this, which consists in ascertaining in what degree the lungs are loaded with blood, b. Anaid to the judgment may also be derived from the relative size of the lungs, the tissue being presumed to be nearly alike throughout their entire mass, c. With an equal volume of lungs, the greater or less compactness of the tissue must be taken into the account. The closer the tissue is, the more are the surfaces in contact with the air multiplied, d. The extent and rapidity of the respiratory motions form another element in the calculation; for to increase the amount of relation with the air is analogous to the for- mation of a larger quantity of arterial blood within a given time. All the foregoing data refer to the absolute or relative quantity of arterial blood. But there are other particulars connected with its constitution which it is necessary to mention. The blood, for instance, is composed of a fluid and solid part, the latter existing under the form of globules. It is obvious that the fluid is not the characteristic part of the blood, in- asmuch as this is met with elsewhere, whilst the globules of the blood are only known as constituents of this fluid. The arterial blood consequently ought to have qualities by so much the more distinctive and energetic as it con- tains a larger proportion of globules. Now this is a character that may be appreciated with exactness, and measures of it have been given. But the globules of the blood are not in- variably of the same nature, a fact which may be judged of by outward and very obvious and appreciable characters, namely, size and form. The smallness and more or less perfectly sphe- rical or rounded form of the blood-globules distinguishing animals with warm blood, co- incide in the Vertebrata with a higher capacity to produce heat. For we do not institute this comparison here save in reference to animals included in this division, inasmuch as the cha- racters of the blood have only been studied under these relations among them. We shall, therefore, hold the energy of the calorific power to be connected with the smallness and rounded form ot the globules of the blood in vertebrate animals. 2. The materials of the blood being sup- plied by the digestive apparatus, we might judge, all things else being equal, of the per- fection of the blood by the perfection of this apparatus. But there is likewise a necessary co-relation between the result of the function, and the aliment; for instance, when the ap- paratus shall be found nearly alike in any two cases, the difference of food necessarily in- fluencing the qualities of the blood, the com- parison must be established, every other cir- cumstance beins; equal, according to the higher or lower nutritive qualities of the food. As the use of the arterial blood is to excite and nourish the different parts of the body, there will be a necessary correspondence be- tween the blood and the result of the nutrition which may become manifest in the nature and quality of the tissues. And in this case it would be fair to make use of these characters of tissues to form an estimate of the nature of the blood in reference to its aptitude to pro- duce heat; and this we shall accordingly do. But even in the event of all these characters failing us, there is another source whence we can derive comparative measurements, which are susceptible of very rigorous application. Since it is necessary that the venous blood should pass through the lungs in order to be- come arterial from contact with the air of the atmosphere, it is obvious that it cannot un- dergo any change in its constitution without the air at the same time suffering a change. That the air is altered by the respiratory act is well known to all, and as there is a necessary co-relation between the blood aerated during respiration and the air which it alters, the amount of alteration undergone by the one may be estimated from the change suffered by the other. The quantity of air altered by re- spiration, all other things being equal, ought to be found in relation with the production of heat. The different characters which we have men- tioned all refer directly or indirectly to the blood. There still remains one of another order which may also serve us as a guide in making comparisons in reference to the pro- duction of heat. The allusion here made is to the nervous system, the superior value of which in warm-blooded animals has already been commented on. It is thus, then, that we may assume the predominance of the nervous axis, and particularly of its encephalic ex- tremity, as a condition favourable to the pro- duction of heat, and which, in circumstances of parity among the other conditions, must tend to the production of a greater quantity of heat. Such are the modes of proceeding which we shall follow in investigating the modi- fications of the organic conditions and of the functions which coincide with the greater evo-