GENERATION. 434 preparatory to their growth and conversion into the fixed and immoveable Zoophyte. We may here recal to the recollection of the reader that the different forms of non-sexual reproduction which we have now attempted to sketch are not confined respectively to par- ticular classes of animals, for several of these animals are reproduced in more than one manner. The alleged instances of non-sexual propa- gation occurring in animals higher in the scale than those already mentioned are very doubt- ful, and ought to be regarded either as founded in imperfect knowledge of their reproductive organs, or as rare exceptions to the general law of their propagation by the sexual mode.* 2. Sexual reproduction.—The existence in animals of generative organs of two kinds, and the necessity of the co-operation of both these organs in reproduction constitute the distinc- tion of sex, or of male and female. In sexual reproduction both kinds of organs produce a substance essentially concerned in the process. The product of the female organ, or ovarium, as it is called, is the ovum or egg, a consistent organised body of a regular and determinate shape, in which the new animal is first formed and resides during its early growth. A whitish fluid is almost always the product of the male organ or testicle,—termed semen, or the semi- nal fluid, from a belief formerly prevailing that it constituted, like the seed, the greater part of the new being. Nature of the ovum.—The egg is naturally produced by the female without the concur- rence of the male, that is, the whole substance is apparently formed by the female organ, but * In many of those instances in which female animals have been supposed to give rise to produc- tive ova, the males have at first escaped notice from the smallness of their number or other causes ; and with regard to others of the lower animals, it may very reasonably be doubted whether the products called ova have not been rather of the nature of gemmae or sporules, such as those formed in the Actinia and other animals naturally propagating in the non-sexual manner. As in this predicament may be mentioned, according to Burdach, Oxyuris, Filaria, Ligula, Tricuspidaria, and others of the Entozoa ; Serpula, Sabella, and other Tubicola ; Cirrhopoda, and Mussels, and Scutibranchiata and Cyclobranchiata. The Syngnathus was erroneously regarded by Pallas, and the Perca Marina by Cavolini, as propagating without sex. It is, how- ever, probable that some animals provided with both sexual organs, and which usually propagate in the sexual mode, are occasionally reproduced without the immediate concurrence of the male. Thus the female Aphis, after being once impreg- nated by the male, bears, for a certain portion of the year, female young only, which are capable of being reproduced for nine generations without any of these female animals receiving any new influence from the male. In the last of tliese generations occurring in autumn, males also are produced which impregnate the females destined to carry on the same succession of generations during the next season. According to some this extension of the fecun- dating influence of the male through more than one generation is not confined to the animals just men- tioned ; but without doubt the instances in which this has been supposed to be the case have been greatly over-reckoned. the egg so formed is incapable of giving birth to a new animal unless it receive a certain por- tion of, or influence from, the seminal sub- stance of the male. This addition of seminal fluid to the egg makes no immediate percep- tible alteration in its structure or appearance, but awakens in it the power of reproduction, fructifies or fecundates it by causing a physical or vital change, the essential nature of which is not fully understood. In the egg immediately after its fecundation, none of the parts of the new animal are visible. A certain time must elapse during which the egg is exposed to certain favourable influences of heat, air, &c. before the com- mencement of those changes of development and growth in which the formative process of the new animal consists. The great mass of the substance composing the egg consists of a fluid, holding in suspension granules of animal, albuminous, and oily matter. The form of the egg is given by the external coverings, and there is in every egg a determinate part or re- gion, corresponding in all animals, at which the small rudimentary parts of the embryo first make their appearance. To this part of the egg, which might be called its germ, the power of independent life and reproduction appears more immediately to belong; the granular fluid serves but to afford nourishment to the young being for a certain period. A gemma or spo- rule, on the other hand, is generally held to differ from the ovum in being homogeneous in its structure, having no investing membranes, and being entirely converted into the substance of the new animal produced from it. In the present state of our knowledge, however, the distinction between an ovum and a sporule must be admitted to be somewhat arbitrary. The position of the male and female genera- tive organs upon the same or upon different individuals, and the place or manner of the development of the young animal from an egg, are the two most prominent circumstances in regard to which the forms of sexual reproduc- tion differ from one another in various animals. The principal processes in which sexual re- production essentially consists, are, 1st, the formation of an egg by the female organs; 2nd, the secretion of the seminal fluid by the male organ ; and 3rd, the union of the sexes, and means by which the seminal fluid is ap- plied to the egg so as to confer fecundity upon it. Hermaphrodite generation.—In some of the lower tribes of animals belonging chiefly to the Annelida, Acephala, and Gasteropoda, the male and female sexual organs are placed on one individual, an arrangement of the sexual organs termed Hermaphrodite, and all the indi- viduals belonging to one species are consequently similarly formed In Insects, Crustacea, some of the Mollusca, and all the Vertebrata, the dif- ferent sexual organs are placed on two distinct individuals, which are thus constituted respec- tively male and female. In the greater number of those animals in which the last-mentioned arrangement exists, besides the sexual pecu- liarities, there are in each certain general differ-