775 HIBERNATION. rose to 91°; and turning it up to the liver, to 93°. " The animal being replaced in the cold atmosphere at 30°, for an hour, the thermome- ter was again introduced into the belly ; at the liver it rose to 93°; in the pelvis to 92°; the mouse continuing very lively. " It was again put back into an atmosphere cooled to 19°, and left there an hour; the ther- mometer at the diaphragm was 87°; in the pelvis 83°; but the animal was now less lively. " Having been put into its cage, the thermo- meter being placed at the diaphragm, in two hours afterwards was at 93°." * In these experiments the animals appear to have been roused partly by the state of the wound in the abdomen, but chiefly by the ex- treme cold. They can scarcely, however, be considered as experiments upon hibernation, however interesting they may be in reference to reviviscence from that state. The fact of the fatal influence of excited re- spiration during the augmented irritability of hibernation, contrasted with the similar fatal effect of suspended respiration, during the dimi- nished irritability of the state of activity, will illustrate many of the causes, kinds, and phe- nomena of death. Do not these resolve them- selves, in fact, into irritability insufficiently or excessively excited ? IV. Of torpor from cold.—It is highly im- portant, and essential to the present investiga- tion to distinguish that kind of torpor which may be produced by cold in any animal, from true hibernation, which is a property peculiar to a few species. The former is attended by a benumbed state of the sentient nerves, and a stiffened condition of the muscles ; it is the direct and immediate effect of cold, and even in the hibernating animal is of an injurious and fatal tendency; in the latter, the sensibility and motility are unimpaired, the phenomena are produced through the medium of sleep; and the effect and object are the preservation of Striking as these differences are, it is certain that the distinction has not always been made by former observers. In all the experiments which have been made, with artificial tempera- tures especially, it is obvious that this distinc- tion has been neglected. True hibernation is induced by temperatures only moderately low. All hibernating animals avoid exposure to extreme cold. They seek some secure retreat, make themselves nests or burrows, or congregate in clusters, and, if the season prove unusually severe, or if their retreat be not well chosen and they be exposed in con- sequence to excessive cold, many become be- numbed, stiffen, and die. In our experiments upon hibernation we should imitate nature's operations. Would any one imagine that the following detail contained the account of an experiment upon this sub- ject ? " Le 31 Janvier," says M. Saissy, " a trois heures du soir, la temperature atmosphe- * Animal (Economy, pp. Ill, 112. rique e"tant a l°-25 au-dessous de zero, celle d'un herisson engourdi profondement a 3°'50 au dessus, j'enfermai ce quadrupede dans un bocal de verre entoure de toute part d'une mix- tion de glace et de muriate de soude. L'exc£s du froid le reveilla d'abord, mais trois heures ont suffi pour le replonger dans une profonde torpeur. " J'avais place l'animal de maniere que je pouvais repeter, autant que je le jugeais neces- saire, les experiences thermom^tnques. Des que sa temperature eut baisse jusqu'a zero, (ce ne fut qu'a 2 heures du matin) je le retirai du bocal et le placai dans une temperature de 12° et plus au dessus de la glace; mais l'animal ctait mort." * To induce true hibernation, it is quite neces- sary to avoid extreme cold ; otherwise we pro- duce the benumbed and stiffened condition to which the term torpor or torpidity may be applied. I have even observed that methods which secure moderation in temperature, lead to hibernation : hedgehogs, supplied with hay or straw, and dormice, supplied with cotton- wool, make themselves nests and become lethar- gic ; when others, to which these materials are denied, and which are consequently more ex- posed to the cold, remain in a slate of activity. In these cases, warmth or moderated cold ac- tually concur to produce hibernation. When we read of insensibility, of a stiffened state of the muscles, and of a cessation of the circulation, as obtaining in hibernation, we may be certain that a state of torpor has been mis- taken for that condition. The actually hiber- nating animal exposed to continued severe cold is, as M. Saissy correctly observes, first roused from this state of ease and preservation into a painful activity, and then plunged into a fatal torpor. This subject will come to be considered in a subsequent part of this inquiry, in which I purpose to trace the effects of cold in changing the relative quantity of respiration and degree of the irritability in animals of different ages which do not hibernate; in the meantime, the accurate distinction between mere torpor, which may occur in any animal, and which is a de- structivestate, from true hibernation, which is preservative, and the peculiarity of certain ani- mals, will enable us to correct many inaccuracies into which Legallois,f M. Edwards,\ and other physiologists have fallen. (See Irritability.) In conclusion, one of the most general effects of sleep is to impair the respiration, and with that function the evolution of animal tempera- ture. The impaired state of the respiration in- duces a less arterial condition of the blood, which then becomes unfit for stimulating the heart; accumulation of the blood takes place in the pulmonary veins and left auricle; a sense of oppression is induced, and the animal is either roused to draw a deep sigh or awakes altogether. * Recherchcs sur Ics Animaux hibernans, par M. J. A. Saissy, pp. 13,14. + (Euvrcs de Legallois, I'aris, 1824, p. 282. X Agcns I'hysiqtics, pp. 148, 292.