ECHINODERMATA. 45 can with certainty be regarded as belonging to the generative system, are the ovaries, which are found in all. These animals would there- fore appear to have no distinction of sex. Whether the concurrence of two individuals is in general necessary for propagation is uncer- tain ; O. Fabricius affirms it of the star-fish, but further observation would be required satis- factorily to establish the fact; he says " con- greditur" (Ast. rubens) " mense Maio, oribus arete connexis, altera supina."* a. The ovaries of Asterias seem to vary in number according to the species. In A. rubens and aurantiaca there are ten, two being situated in each ray, above the vesicles of the feet. Each of these organs consists in the former species of an oblong cluster of ramified tubes, (Jigs A2and 16, o,and ato', cut short), proceeding all from a single stem by which the organ is fixed, and terminating in round vesicular dila- tations. In A. aurantiaca the tubes are not all connected by a single stem, but form about twenty fasciculi, each of which has a distinct attachment (jig. 22, o, u). The vesicles contain a whitish pulpy sub- stance, with which they are more or less dis- tended according to the season of the year; so that the ovary, varying thus in size, is found to occupy sometimes a greater at other times a less extent of the ray, to the commencement or base of which it is attached. Tiedemann could discover no excretory duct of the ovary; and nothing positive is known as to the way in which the ova are formed and discharged from the body. Tiedemann conjectures that they escape by openings situate in the neigh- bourhood of the mouth, in the angles between the rays. The Ophiurahas also ten ovaries, which do not lie in the rays, but in the central part of the animal, and which, according to Meckel, open externally by orifices on the ventral sur- face. b. The Echinus has five ovaries, (fig. 10, c,) attached to the inside of the shell in the upper part of the body, and occupying the spaces between the five rows of feet. They are often joined together laterally. They consist of an assemblage of small round bodies, which are the ova. Five short tubular oviducts come from the upper end of the ovaries and open externally by an equal number of orifices, pierced in five oval plates which surround the anus. The size of these organs, as in the star- fish, varies much according to the degree of maturity of the ova. The ovary, or row as it is named, is the part used as food. Mr. Pen- nant states that the E. esculentus is " eaten by the poor in many parts of England, and by the better sort abroad;" in ancient Rome the Echini formed a favourite dish at the tables of the great. c. The ovary of Ilolothuria tubulosa (Jig. 34, m, p. 109, vol. i ) is situated at the fore part of the body near the stomach and first portion of the intestine. It is a tube with many clus- tering branches, which terminate in blind and * Fauna Gvocnlandica, p. 368. slightly dilated extremities. The main tube or oviduct runs forwards along the stomach, and opens externally on the dorsal aspect of the body a little way behind the mouth. Between the insertion of its branches and its external orifice, eight or ten pyriform vesicles open into it, close to each other, by long tubular pedi- cles. The size of the ovary varies excessively at different periods ; its branches usually contain a whitish fluid; but Tiedemann states that about the end of October he has in some in- stances found the organ enlarged to twice or three times its usual dimensions, and con- taining oblong brown-coloured bodies from half a line to a line in length, which he sup- poses were eggs or perhaps embryos. From a statement of O. Fabricius it would appear that the Hoi. pentactes is ovo-viviparous : he says, " est vivipara: mense enim Martio in ilia versus anum pullum libere natantem, rubicundum vidi."* The pyriform vesicles are found en- larged at the same time with the ovary itself, and Tiedemann conjectures they may be male organs, by which a fecundating fluid is produced and applied to the ova. 7. Regeneration of lost parts.—The star-fish affords an example of great regenerating power. Individuals are often found which have evi- dently sustained the loss of one or more rays, and in which new rays, as yet incomplete in their growth, occupy the place of the old. Experiments have been even purposely made which were attended with the same result; but we are not aware that the process of regeneration in these animals has been care- fully traced in its successive steps, or at least fully described. In 1741 and 42, Messrs. Bernard de Jussieu, Guettard, and Gerard de Villars made observations and experiments on this subject at various parts of the coast of France. These researches were undertaken at the request of M. de Reaumur, who thus de- scribes them. " They (M. de Jussieu and Guettard) brought me specimens of star-fish with four large rays and a small one still growing; they found others with only three large and two extremely small rays; others again with two large rays and three very small, and, as it seemed, very young ones. Lastly they more than once met with a single large ray from which four small ones had begun to sprout." After remarking that the fact had been long familiarly known to the fishermen, M. Reaumur continues, " The portions into which Messrs. Jussieu and Guet- tard had divided the animals appeared to go on well, the wounds cicatrized and consoli- dated, but the experimenters were obliged to limit their stay on the coast to about fifteen days; too short a period to trace the progress of a reproduction which apparently is not completed till after several months, or perhaps even upwards of a year."-f BlBLIOGKAPHY.—Kleinius, Naturalis dispositio * Fauna Groenlandica, p. 353. f Reaumur, Memoires pour servir a l'histoire des insectes, tome vi. preface, page lx. sq.