192 EYE. taining its own weight and preserving its form when placed in water, and in air presents the appearance of a gelatinous mass, scarcely de- serving the name of solid. The cellular struc- ture, in which the watery fluid is lodged, has been called the hyaloid membrane, and the whole mass denominated the vitreous humour. The fluid of the vitreous humour, according to Berzelius, is composed of water, containing about one and a half per cent, of animal and saline ingredients; it has a saline taste, and acquires a slight opaline tint by being boiled. It consists of water 98.40, chloruret of soda with a little extractive matter 1.42, a substance solu- ble in water 0.02, and albumen 0.16. Its specific gravity is 1.059. When the hyaloid membrane is examined in its natural state, its cellular organization can scarcely be ascertained on account of its transparency; but if it be suspended on the point of a pin until the fluid is allowed to drop out, it may be inflated with a fine blowpipe and dried, or if the whole be placed in strong spirit or weak acid, the mem- brane becomes opaque, and its organization obvious. It has been supposed that the cells in which the fluid is lodged present a determi- nate form, and attempts have been made to prove this by freezing the eye and examining the frozen fragments; but any one who has seen the hyaloid membrane rendered opaque by acid must allow that the cells are too minute to admit of such investigation, and that the frozen masses, supposed to be the contents of cells, are merely fragments of the hyaloid membrane with their contained fluid. Although the hyaloid membrane is perfectly transparent, and the red particles of the blood do not circu- late in its vessels, there can be little doubt that its growth and nutrition are effected by the circulation of a transparent fluid in vessels continuous with those conveying red blood. It is an established fact that transparent tex- tures which in a natural state do not exhibit a trace of coloured fluid, when excited or inflamed, become filled with red vessels, as may be seen in the conjunctiva. It is there- fore reasonable to admit that the hyaloid mem- brane does not present a deviation from this general law. The fluid of the vitreous humour, it is to be presumed from analogy, is secreted by the vessels of the hyaloid membrane, and if no red vessels can be detected, the secretion must be accomplished by transparent ones. It has already been stated that the vascular layer of the retina adheres to the surface of the vitreous humour, and that the points of adhe- sion are stronger along the course of the vessels than in the intermediate spaces; it is therefore most probable that the more superficial part of the sphere is supplied with transparent blood from the arteries of the retina, while a branch directly from the central artery, as it penetrates the porus opticus, enters behind, and extends to the back of the lens: such a branch can be injected in the foetus, and is found to ramify on the back of the capsule of the lens; and in the eyes of large quadrupeds a transparent production, probably vascular, has been ob- served proceeding from the entrance of the optic nerve into the mass of the vitreous humour. It is also probable that the ciliary processes of the choroid, which are buried in the hyaloid membrane anteriorly, supply blood to that part of the sphere. That the vitreous humour undergoes changes analogous to those which take place in textures supplied with red blood, is proved by its hyaloid membrane being found opaque and thickened in eyes which have been destroyed by internal inflam- mation. A total disorganization of the vitreous humour is a frequent occurrence, the hyaloid membrane losing its cohesion to such a degree that the fluid escapes from the eye as freely as the aqueous humour when the cornea is divided in the operation of extraction; and after the lens and its capsule have been removed by operations with the needle, opacity of the hyaloid membrane is occasionally, although rarely, observed. Allusion has frequently been made in books to an appearance in the eye denominated glaucoma, attributed, rather vaguely, to opacity of the vitreous humour; it appears, however, to be nothing more than the usual opacity of the lens which occurs in advanced life, seen through a dilated pupil. As an additional proof of the vascularity of the vitreous humour may be adduced the fact, that in the eyes of sheep, injured by blows in driving to the shambles, the vitreous humour is deeply tinged with red blood. The spherical mass of vitreous humour, it has already been stated, is exactly fitted into and adheres to the inner surface of the retina. From the anterior termination of the retina to the posterior chamber of the aqueous humour, it is in contact with, and adhering to, the ciliary processes of the choroid. Where it is truncated or compressed on its anterior part to form the posterior chamber of the aqueous humour, it has the crystalline lens fitted into a depression in its centre, while a narrow circle of it appears between the circumference of the lens and the anterior extremities of the ciliary processes of the choroid, forming part of the boundaries of this chamber of aqueous humour. If the eye be allowed to remain for a day or two in water in order to destroy by maceration the delicate connexions between the hyaloid membrane and the choroid, and then the vitreous humour with the lens attached care- fully separated, the point of a fine blowpipe may be introduced under the surface of the hyaloid membrane at the circumference of the lens, and a series of cells' encircling the lens inflated. This is the canal of Petit, or canal godronne. It is thus described by the dis- coverer in the Histoire de l'Academie des Sciences for 1726. " I have discovered a small canal surrounding the crystalline, which I call the circular canal godronnd; it can be seen only by inflating it, and when filled with air it forms itself into folds similar to the ornaments on silver plate, called for this reason Vaiselle godronne. It is formed by the doubling of the hyaloid membrane, which is contracted into cells at equal distances by little canals which traverse it, and which do not admit of the same degree of extension as the membrane,