462 GENERATION. productive power is given to the egg, but to endeavour to establish what are the essential conditions of fecundation. Difference between the fecundated and unfe- cunduted ovum.-—In the first place, in reference to this subject, it would be interesting to know whether any material difference exists between the structure of the fecundated and unfecun- dated egg. In the common fowl we have seen that the whole substance of the egg, the yolk and ger- minal portion, the albumen, shell, and mem- brane, may be formed in the ovaries and oviduct, and excreted from the body of the hen without any connection with the cock ; but such an egg, though apparently the same in structure with that which is laid after connection with the cock, when subjected to the requisite heat, undergoes none of the changes of development which incubation induces in the fecundated egg, but only passes into chemical decomposi- tion like any other dead animal substance. Did any difference of structure exist between the fecundated and unfecundated egg, we should be disposed to look for it first in that part of the egg which is more immediately con- nected with the new being, viz. in its germinal portion ; but we regret to say that the investiga- tions of naturalists have not as yet pointed out any marked difference in a satisfactory manner. Malpighi, it is true, long ago pointed out a difference in the structure of the cicatricula of the egg of the common fowl which had had connection with the cock, and those of the hen living single, and the observations of this author were afterwards confirmed by Prevost and Dumas. In the impregnated egg the cicatri- cula is a well-defined whitish spot, with a re- gularly formed transparent area in its centre; while in the unimpregnated egg there is no re- gularly shaped transparent area, but rather a number of small irregular clear spaces scattered over the surface of the cicatricula. We fear, however, that this appearance of irregularity exists as well in some eggs that have been laid after connection with the cock, and that the shape or appearance of the cicatricula can scarcely be depended upon as informing us whether an egg has been fecundated or not, since that appearance is much influenced by the state of the nucleus or white matter of the yolk situated below it, as well as by the state of the cicatricula itself. This subject is worthy, however, of the most accurate investigation, as it appears to offer the prospect of affording some information on this very obscure part of the generative process. In the ovarian ovulum, the vesicle of Pur- kinje, it will be recollected, occupies the centre of the cicatricula ; and this vesicle exists in the ovulum so long as it remains within the ovarian capsule, whether the hen have connection with the cock or not. In the impregnated fowl the germinal vesicle of Purkinje bursts, and leaves the transparent area in the centre of the cicatri- cula at the time when the ovulum passes from the ovarian capsule into the oviduct; but it re- mains to be known if the same is the case, or what phenomena ensue upon the escape of the ovulum from the ovarium in the fowl which is entirely separated from the cock.* We do not know with certainty what befalls the vesicle of Purkinje in the ovulum of Mam- malia at the time of its escape from the ovarium. The analogy of all oviparous animals is strongly in favour of the supposition that it bursts in the same manner. M. Coste states that it does not burst, and Valentin supports an opposite view. While, therefore, we feel disposed to adopt the opinion that the seminal fluid, in fecunda- ting the egg, operates its peculiar change chiefly on the germinal part, and that the bursting of the germinal vesicle is very probably connected with the change of fecundation, it must be ad- mitted that further observations are still want- ing to afford a satisfactory proof of the correct- ness of these hypotheses. Is material contact of the semen and ovum necessary for fecundation ?—No one has ever discovered any of the seminal fluid within the egg : the most minute observation does not de- tect any appearance of this. A question then naturally presents itself in reference to the sub- ject of our present inquiry, viz. whether it is necessary that a certain quantity of the sub- stance of the seminal fluid should be brought into actual contact with the egg in order to cause its fecundation ? and if so, in what man- ner and in what part of the female organs such contact is brought about? Were we to look no further than to the manner in which fecundation is effected in many of the inferior animals, we might be in- duced at once to form the opinion that the mere contact of a certain quantity of the seminal fluid with their ova, in whatever way brought about, is all that is necessary for producing their fecun- dation. Thus, in the greater number of fishes the milt or seminal fluid of the male is shed over the spawn of the female after it is laid in water, without there being any nearer sexual intercourse; the fecundation is external to the body of the female, and we thus know with certainty that the ova and the seminal fluid are the only parts immediately concerned in the process. The same is the case in the common frog, in which there is copulation; for in that animal, although the male and female remain united firmly together during a longer period than any other kind of animal, yet this union is not a means of producing fecundation, but rather of promoting the discharge of unim- pregnated ova from the generative system of the female. There is in fact no true sexual union : the spawn is laid by the female un- fecundated, and the male (separating then in general from the female) sprinkles seminal fluid on the ova floating in water. External and artificial fecundation.—The mode of fecundation just now mentioned sug- * We have long had the intention of instituting a series of observations comparing the changes of the impregnated and unimpregnated ovum in the oviduct, but have not yet had an opportunity, and we recommend it to those who may be anxious to engage in the investigation of this subject.