DIGESTION. 18 of tlie agent to this purpose, has led to many singular theoretical opinions, which will be noticed in a subsequent part of this article.* But in whatever way, or upon whatever principle we may explain the action of the gastric fluid upon the aliment, we are irre- sistibly led to the conclusion, that it is the physical agent which produces the effect, not only from those cases, where in consequence of a preternatural opening into the stomach we are able to observe the actual phenomena of digestion, but still more so, by the expe- riments on what has been termed artificial di- gestion, especially those of Spallanzani and Beaumont, where the gastric juice has been procured, and applied out of the stomach, and where the process of chymification has proceeded, as nearly resembling that in the stomach itself as might reasonably be ex- pected, considering the unavoidable imper- fection of the experiment. This imperfection respects both the mode of obtaining the gastric juice itself, and the mode of applying it to the aliment. We reduce the action of the stomach into somewhat of an unnatural con- dition in order to procure the secretion, and in the application of it we are deprived of the contractile motion of the organ; yet, not- withstanding these unavoidable circumstances, the substances were reduced to a state very considerably resembling that of chyme. That this change was not produced by a mere me- chanical action is proved by the circumstance, that the change in the substances operated on bore no proportion to the hardness of their texture or other physical properties. Thus we find that the gastric fluid acts upon dense membrane, and in some cases, even upon bone, while there are other substances, of a very delicate texture, which are not affected by it. This kind of selection of certain sub- stances in preference to others bears so close an analogy to the operation of chemical affinity, that we ought not to refuse our assent to the idea of their belonging to the same class of tial agent in the process. From the first part of this remark we must, however, except Vanhelmont and Willis; Ortus Med. p. 164 . . 7 et alibi ; De Ferment, op. t. i. p. 25. See Haller in Boerhaave, Praelect. not. ad § 77, and El. Phys. xix. 1. 15, and 4. 29; Fordyce, p. 150, 1 ; Spallanzani, § 239 .. 245 ; Hunter, p. 293 et seq.; Circaud, ut supra; Dumas, El. Phys. t. i. p. 278 .. 0 ; Tiede- mann et Gmelin, Recherches, t. i. p. 166, 7. It may be proper to remark that Leuret and Lassaigne do not admit of the presence of this acid ; they, on the contrary, suppose that the gastric juice owes its acid properties to the lactic acid ; Recherches Physiol, et Cliimiques, p. 114. .7; Dr. Prout has, however, as we conceive, satisfac- torily answered their objections to his experiments; Ann. Phil. v. xii. p. 406. Dr. Carswell considers acidity to be the essential and active property of the gastric juice ; Pathol. Anat. fas. 5. * Montegre has lately performed a series of ex- periments, the results of which lead him to deny the specific action of the gastric juice ; Exper. sur la Digestion, p. 43, 4. But, notwithstanding the apparent accuracy with which they were conducted, we cannot but suspect some source of error, seeing how much they are at variance with all our other information on the subject. actions, although it occurs under circum- stances where we might not have expected to find it. There are two other properties of the gastric juice, besides its solvent power, which are at least as difficult to account for, but of which we seem to have very complete evidence,— its property of coagulating albumen, and that of preventing putrefaction. It is the former of these properties which we employ in mak- ing cheese, cheese being essentially the albu- minous part of milk, coagulated by means of what is termed rennet, a fluid consisting of the infusion of the digestive stomach of the calf. This is unequivocally a chemical change, yet it is very difficult to explain it upon any che- mical principle, i. e. to refer this individual case to any series of facts, with which it can be connected.* We can only say in this instance, as in so many others in the physical sciences, that although the fact is clearly ascertained, its efficient cause still remains doubtful. We are compelled to make the same re- mark with regard to the other property of the gastric juice, to which we have referred above, its antiseptic power. Of the fact, however, we are well assured, both as occurring in the natural process of digestion, and in the expe- riments that have been made out of the body. It is not uncommon for carnivorous animals to take their food in a half putrid state, when it is found that the first action of the gastric juice is to remove the fcetor; and an effect of precisely the same kind was noticed by Spal- lanzani in his experiments.-^ Here again we have a chemical change, the nature of which we cannot explain; it is, however, a circum- stance which may appear less remarkable, with respect to the subject now under consideration, because the action of antiseptics generally is one which we find it difficult to refer to any general principles. Respecting the process of chymification it only remains for us to remark, that the con- tractile action of the stomach is admirably fitted to aid the chemical action of the secreted fluids ; the vermicular motion of the organ has the effect of keeping the whole of its contents in a gradual state of progression from the catdia to the pylorus, while, at the same time, each individual portion of the aliment is com- pletely mixed together, and brought into the * This difficulty appears to be increased by the amount of effect which is produced by the very small quantity of the agent; Fordyce informs us, that a very few grains of the inner coat of the stomach, a very small proportion of which must have consisted of the secretion, was capable, when infused in water, of coagulating more than one hundred parts of milk; p. 57,9; 176 et seq.; Prout, Ann. Phil. v. xiij. p. 13 et seq. t Exper. § 250..2 et alibi; see also Hunter on the Anim. CEcon. p. 204. Montegre does not admit of this property, and would appear to doubt also of the coagulating power of the gastric juice, p. 21 et alibi ; the same opinion is also maintained by Dr. Thackrah, lect. p. 14; but it would require a very powerful series of negative facts to controvert the strong evidence that we possess on this subject.