546 ORGAN OF HEARING. vocatorum. Heme. 1727. 4. 439. process. The muscle of the malleus receives a nervous brand) from the otic ganglion. By the action of this muscle, the handle of the malleus is drawn inwards and forwards, whilst the head is moved in the opposite direc- tion, in consequence of the bone moving on its long process as on an axis. The result of this movement of the bone is, that the membrana tympani, which is attached to the handle of the malleus in its whole length, is also drawn in- wards and stretched. Besides the tension to which the membrana tympani is thus subjected, the base of the stapes is forced against the ves- tibular fenestra, m consequence of the move- ment communicated by the head of the malleus to the incus, which tends to press inwards the long extremity of the latter. Muscle of the stupes, M.stapedius.—This is lodged, and takes origin in the cavity of the pyramid already described. Much paler and smaller than the preceding muscle, it is inserted into the posterior and upper part of the head of the stapes by a slender tendon, which issues by the aperture in the summit of the py- ramid, and proceeds downwards and forwards to its termination. The stapedius muscle receives a nervous fila- ment from the facial nerve. The first effect of the action of this muscle will be to press the posterior part of the base of the stapes against the vestibular fenestra. At the same time the long branch of the incus will be drawn backwards and inwards, and the head of the malleus being, by this movement of the incus, pressed forwards and outwards, its han- dle will be carried inwards, and the membrana tympani thus put on the stretch. Breschet calls the muscle of the stapes a iaxator, but I do not know on what grounds. Magendie* mentions the circumstance that in the stapedius muscle of the ox and horse, there is imbedded a small lenticular bone. Professor Berthold of Gbttingenf has more lately called attention to the same circumstance. Berthold has not found this bone in man, nor sheep, nor deer, nor goats, nor swine. In the ox and calf it is about one-half to three-fourths of a line in its longest diameter, and one-third in the shortest, and lies surrounded by the mus- cular and tendinous substance where the for- mer passes into the latter. In the horse it is a little nearer the lower margin of the muscle and tendon, and is much smaller than in the ox; moreover, it is not round, but is a longish plate, somewhat thicker in the middle. At the place where the stapedius muscle is inserted into the stapes, HyrtlJ has sometimes found in the human ear a small process of bone which in some cases was so long as to extend * Sur les organes qui tendent ou relachent la mem- brane du tympan et la chaine des osselets de l'ouie dans l'homme et les animaux mammiferes. In Journal de Physiologie experimental, t. 1., p. 346. Paris, 1821. t Ueber ein linsenformiges Kndchelchen im Musculus Stapedius mehrerer Saugethiere. In Mueller's Archiv. Jahrg. 1838. i Beitr'age zur patbologischen Anatomie des Gehbrorgans, in the Medicin. Jahrb'ucher . des k. k. oestr. Staates. Wien 1836. Bd. xx. p. into the belly of the muscle itself. Teichmeyer* has described this free bone of the stapedius muscle as constant in man. Having described the walls and contents of the cavity of the tympanum, we come now to speak of the membrane which lines it. The lining membrane of the cavity of the tympanum is in continuity with the mucous membrane of the throat, through the Kustachian tube. Extremely delicate, and in some parts very vascular, it is not merely a mucous membrane, but is theoretically a combination of periosteum and mucous membrane, being what Bicbat called fibro-mucous. It invests all the elevations and depressions observed on the walls of the tympanum, and extends into the mastoid cells. The outer layer of the mem- brane of the fenestra rotunda, membrana tym- pani secundaria, is a continuation of it. The base of the stapes is fixed by its circum- ference to the outer edge of the groove, which encircles the vestibular fenestra, by a membrane or ligament. The lining membrane of the ves- tibule, continued over the base of the stapes from within, also invests the inner surface of this annular ligament, whilst the outer surface of it is covered by the membrane lining the tympanum as it is reflected on the stapes. The membrane lining the tympanum invests the small bones and the tendons of their mus- cles where they run free in the cavity. A fold of it fills up the space bounded by the crura and base of the stapes. The chorda tympani, also, in its passage across the tympanum, is enve- loped by it. Lastly, it forms the inner bor- rowed layer of the membrana tympani, cover- ing and adhering closely to the handle of the malleus. The Eustachian tube, (tuba Eustachii, s. ca- nalis pulatinus tympani; Fr. la trompe d'Eus- tuclii; Germ, die Eustuchische Rohre oder der Gaumengang des mittlcren Ohrs.) — The Eustachian tube is a passage of communication betwixt the cavity of the tympanum and the throat. In length about an inch and a half, it is directed from behind forwards, from without inwards, and from above downwards. Its gut- tural orifice is wider than that by which it opens into the tympanum. Proceeding from the tympanum, its first part is an osseous canal, the osseous part of the Eus- tachian tube; the walls of the remainder of it are composed partly of cartilage, partly of fibrous membrane, the cartilaginous and mem- braneous portion of the Eustachian tube. The osseous part of the Eustachian tube, pars ossea tuba Eustachii, begins at the anterior and lower part of the tympanum, by a funnel-like orifice, and runs forwards and inwards on the outside of the carotid canal, and below that for the reception of the internal muscle of the mal- leus. It is about half an inch in length, and ends by a notched and irregular edge at the re- entering angle, between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone. Its calibre contracts in its course forwards, and is compressed from without and below inwards * Vindiciae quorundam inventorum anat. in dubium