128 ENTOZOA. in retracting the head within the terminal cyst; and this part, in the same specimen also, pre- sented a remarkably distinct series of transverse stria?, indicating most probably the circular fibres which contract the cyst in the transverse direction, and protrude the proboscis.* This species of Hydatid, which is common in the abdomen of Sheep, where it is either sus- pended in a cyst to the mesentery or omen- tum, or embedded in the liver, &c. has been the subject of numerous observations, and is generally selected to demonstrate the muscular phenomena in an animal of very simple orga- nization. When extracted from a recently killed sheep, and placed in water at the blood- heat, the cyst may then be observed to become elongated, and agitated with undulatory move- ments ; the retracted part of the body is thrust forth, and again, perhaps, drawn in ; during the latter action the anterior part of the cyst becomes wrinkled and is drawn back, gliding into the posterior part of the cyst; the anterior part of the body is at the same time retracted, and is received into the posterior; and thus by degrees the head and all the body become concealed in the terminal cyst. In the Cestoidea the muscular structure is indicated slightly by impressions on the sur- face of the body, but it is seldom that a distinct layer of muscular fibres can be demonstrated. To the worms of the genus Caryophylleus both Zeder and Rudolphi agree in ascribing longitudinal fibres, which extend along the anterior part of the body and transverse fibres, which are conspicuous in the pos- terior segments. In the Tania both trans- verse and longitudinal strata of fibrils are stated to exist,f obscure indeed, or almost impercep- tible in the smaller species; but more evident in the larger specimens, in which, according to Iludolphi, each segment has in general its own strata, whence it enjoys, for some time after being separated from the rest of the body, distinct and peculiar motions; and such joints have been described as distinct species of En- tozoa, under the name of Cucur- Fig. 75. bitina. In the Bot/iriocepfialus fiai lutus, on the other hand, the lon- / r"@fl g'tudinal fibres are continued from m IBB one joint to another, whence the V ifflB segments are less readily separable, |jBpP and a common and continuous co- liSro vering may be dissected from off pl^Si the body of this species. tpS3% Living Taeniae placed in warm water exhibit undulatory motions. fSraffj The body of one of these worms is fesmf sometimes found to be tied at some fjWi\ part in a complicated knot, as seen w^^iL in Jig. 75, doubtless by means of v .vvl R>£ mese m°tions. The Tcenia solium, l'Ei I when recently expelled from the Ttenia body by the irritation of a vermifuge solium. remedy, is occasionally contracted to the length of a few inches, the * See Preparation, No. 409 A, Physiological Series Mus. Roy. Coll. of Surg. Catalogue, vol. i, p. 115. f Rudolphi, Hist. Entoz. i. p. 223. segments appearing as close-set transverse stria;; when placed in water, after a few hours it will have returned to a length of as many feet. Werner* relates an instance of a Taenia which extended from the anus of a patient to the length of three feet, and which returned itself almost wholly into the intestine, the dependent part being drawn upwards by the superior. Other and still more extraordinary instances of the movements of the Cestoid worms are on re- cord ; but that the separated joints of the Tania solium should be able to creep several feet up a perpendicular wall could scarcely gain a mo- ment's credit, if the fact were not related by no less distinguished a naturalist than Pallas.t In general the muscular fibres cannot be observed in the diaphanous bodies of the smaller Trernatoda, yet every part is endowed with active contractility: in the larger species, however, both longitudinal and transverse strata of fibres may be demonstrated in the tegumen- tary muscular covering of the body; both which we have distinctly seen in the large Distoma clavatum. The muscular fibres of the aceta- bula are disposed in two series, one radiating from the centre to the circumference, the other in concentric circles. The muscular tissue is also well developed around the base of the sucker, by which the animal is enabled to pro- trude them from the surface. In the Planaria, in which, as in the Tania, according to our observations, the muscular system is indicated only by striae on the super- ficies of the apparently homogeneous paren- chyma, the phenomena of muscularity are strikingly displayed in the varied and energetic actions of the living animal. They lengthen, shorten, widen, contract, or contort the body in various degrees and directions : their mode of locomotion on a solid plane is by an insen- sible undulation, or successive approximation of small proportions of the body, producing a gliding movement, as in the Slug; and the same actions take place in swimming through the water, except that the body is reversed; and the ventral surface turned upwards, as in the Carinaria and other aquatic Gastropods. When seizing a living prey, as in fig. 76, the contractions of the body Fig. 76. are more vigorous and In the Fkhinorhynchus the muscular fibres are of a whitish colour, semi- transparent, and of a ge- latinous appearance; they Planaria lactea (B), aie eminently contractile, feeding on a Nais. and readily respond to the application of both chemical and pbysical stimuli. Cloquet ob- served them to contract under the influence of the galvanic current six hours after the cessation * As quoted by Rudolphi. * Taenia ad trium ulnarum longitudinem ex mulieris ano propen- dens, in casu qnem Wernerus (1. c. 47) ret'ert, tota fere in pristinum hospitium rediit, pars pro- pendens itaque a superiore sursum ducta : similes omnino casus Andryus habet.'—Ibid. p. 223. t Also quoted by Rudolphi, p. 223.