895 INSECTA. the form and relative size of parts of the head oc- curs in the hog-beetles,Curculionida {Jig. 337), in which the head is elongated forwards, and the mouth is situated at the extremity of a long rostrum or beak. This is occasioned by the narrowing and extension forwards of the clypei, and the parts corresponding to them, the men- turn and sub-mentum. This change is carried to such an extent in some species, as in Liparis Germanus, that the antennas are also carried for- wards, and appear as if situated at the sides of the mouth. That this is the manner in which the change of form is effected is proved by the circumstance, that the basilar and epicranial regions in this insect do not exceed a fair pro- portion, as compared with other insects; while the triangular suture, which always divides the epicranium from the posterior clypeus, exists in its usual situation on the part between the eyes; and the labrum, which is very distinct, is freely articulated with the anterior margin of the clypeus. The effect of this elongation of some parts of the head and mouth is the neces- sarily small size of others, and consequently we find that the mandibles, which are so enor- mously large in Luc-anus, are reduced almost to their minimum in the Curculio; because, al- though the elongated form of the head is admi- rably adapted to the habits of the insect, in boring deeply into hard substances, it is insuffi- cient for the support of large and powerful organs, and its extent of surface is too limited to afford adequate room for the muscles neces- sary for their employment. Wherever large and powerful organs exist, the parts to which they are attached are enlarged in like manner. Thus we invariably find that in those insects in which the mandibles are large, the whole head is either short and wide, or its posterior por- tions, the basilar and epicranial regions, to which the muscles of the mandibles are at- tached, greatly exceed those of the anterior. The parts observed in the head in Coleop- tera are equally apparent in Orthoptera. In this order the head is placed vertically on the pro-thorax, without any constricted portion or neck, so that the extent of the occipital region is greatly reduced. The epicranium in some species, Locustidte, c)c. is broad behind, but narrowed in front, where it is bounded, as in other insects, by the clypeus posterior, and la- terally by the cornea; and sides of the head, of which it forms a part. In this order the ocelli, or single corneas, which are found only in a few solitary instances in Coleoptera, exist in most of the families. They are situated in the anterior portion of the epicranium, and form part of its surface, whether placed on the vertical portion of the head, or more anteriorly near the clypeus. In the osculant family, Blattida, the epicranium is exceedingly shortened, but retains along its vertex a trace of the epicranial suture, which is scarcely ever absent in the insects of this order. It is very distinct in the common house-cricket and mole- cricket, Aclietida (Jig- 342), in the Gryllidie and Locust idee. In the mole-cricket it some- times appears as if wholly obliterated, but is always seen in the pupa if care be taken to remove the down with which it is sometimes covered. Its apex is situated in the middle line between the ocelli, and on each side it passes down to the insertion of the antenna?. It is in this order that the suture is particularly useful in indicating the boundary of the pos- terior clypeus, the extent of which in Orthop- tera appears hitherto to have been overlooked. Fig. 373. Head of Blatta Americana. A, antenna ; t> tympanum ; f t> socket for the an- tenna, covered with membrane; dd, clypeus, anterior and posterior; *, lingua; »**, paraglossae. ( Other letters and Jiyures as in Hydrous.) In the epicranium of Blatta (Jig. 373), the suture is almost obliterated, being only disco- verable by aid of the microscope, but on careful inspection it is seen to end at a point opposite to the middle of the superior portion of the corneas, where it forms the apex of the triangle, which enters, on each side, the anterior margin of a circular space covered with a tense mem- brane, the tympanum (f), which is situated, as observed by Treviranus, a little behind the in- sertion of the antennas. These organs are also inserted in a rounded space covered by a mem- brane. From these points the suture becomes obliterated, but seems to pass in the direction of the anterior boundary of the corneas to the base of the mandibles. The clypeus posterior (d) thus appears to form the greater portion of the front or face of the insect, and is united by a transverse freely articulating membrane, ex- tending across from the base of each mandible with a short transverse plate, the clypeus ante- rior (d), which has hitherto been looked upon as the true clypeus. In the common green grasshopper, Acrida viridissima, the boundary of the posterior clypeus is at the most anterior part of the head immediately between the an- tennae, the suture extending, as in other in- sects, to their base. The clypeus anterior is a short transverse moveable plate, and is articu- lated with the labrum (e), which is also short, transverse, and freely moveable upon the cly- peus anterior. This moveable condition of the anterior clypeus and lip has not a little puzzled entomologists. Mr. Newman* has remarked that " the lip and shield move simultaneously * Op. cit. p. 9.