HERMAPHRODITISM. * Cenno Storico su di un Neutro-Uomo, p. 5, 7. || Tract, de Hermaphr. natura, p. 120. To the present division of transverse herma- phroditic malformation with external female and internal male organs, we may probably also refer the case of the hermaphrodite dog de- tailed by Sir E. Home,* and three instances in the sheep described by Ruysch,f Herholdt,J and Gurlt.ยง In all these instances imperfectly developed testicles were situated either within the abdomen or without it upon the udder, at the same time that the external parts exhibited in a more or less marked degree the peculiarities of the female sex; the vagina was, however, nar- rower, and the clitoris more developed than in the perfectly formed female; and in the dog mentioned by Home, this latter organ was very large, being three quarters of an inch long, and half an inch broad, but still it could not pro- perly be considered as an imperfect penis, since the bone, which forms the distinguishing mark of that organ in the dog, was wanting. Few well-marked instances of transverse hermaphroditism with external female organs have been hitherto described as observed in the human subject, unless we regard as an approach to it the numerous cases, already referred to, of spurious hermaphroditic malformation in the male from hypospadic division of the urethra, scrotum, and perinaeum. a. In his essay on hermaphroditism, how- ever, Steghlehner|| has detailed at great length the particulars of a case belonging to the present variety, which he met with on the body of a woman who died of phthisis at the age of twenty-three. The external sexual organs were all of the female type and in general well formed, though the clitoris and nymphae were perhaps smaller than natural, and the orificium vaginae was rather contracted and half shut up by a hymen. The fossa navicularis was very distinct, and the vagina normally situated, but extremely short and narrow. Its internal sur- face presented an appearance of transverse and longitudinal rugae, but its upper extremity formed a blind sac, and no traces could be found beyond it of the uterus, nor indeed any vestiges whatever of the other internal female organs, the ovaries and Fallopian tubes. On more minute examination a testicle with its spermatic cord was found in each inguinal region, placed outside the external ring, and surrounded with their cremaster muscles and vaginal coats. The testicles were flaccid and small, but their internal structure and that of their epididymes was natural; and the slender pervious vasa deferentia arising from them entered the abdomen, descended into the pelvis, and were joined behind the urinary bladder by two vesicula? seminales of considerable size. Their common ejaculatory ducts opened into the vagina. The form of the thorax and pelvis, and of the body in general, was feminine; and * Phil. Trans, for 1795, p. 157. Comp. Anat. iii. 323. t Thesaur. Anat. viii. n. c. iii. tab. 115 t Viborg's Sammlungs fuer Thierartze (1797.) s. 25. ยง Lehrbuch, &c. Bd. ii. s. 186. tab. ix. 2. and xxii. s. 2, the mammae and nipples were well developed, but the larynx was rather more protuberant than in females, and the voice approached in tone to that of a man. There had never been any menstrual discharge, but the periodical moli- mina indicative of its appearance were said to have been observed regularly. There were some haemorrhoidal tumours situated around the anus. b. If possible a still more perfect example of the present variety of transverse hermaphro- ditism in the human subject has lately been observed at Naples. The malformation occurred in the person of an individual Maria E. Arsano, who died at the age of eighty in one of the pauper charities at Naples, and who had passed through life as a female and been married as such. No suspicion of the malformation existed during life, and it was only at first accidentally discovered in preparing the dead body for demonstration in the anatomical theatre of Professor Ricco, who afterwards carefully dissected the malformed parts in com- pany with Professors Sorrentino and Grosetti. We have taken the following account and sketches from Ricco's published description of the case.* The external organs of generation were those of the female in their natural or normal state, consisting of the mons veneris with a scanty quantity of hair (fig. 295, a) ; of the labia ex- Fig. 295. terna (fig. 295 & 296, b b) naturally formed, and the nymphae (fig. 295 & 296, d d); of the clitoris (fig. 295 & 296, c), which was perfectly imperforate, and of the ordinary size of the same organ in the adult female ; of the orifice of the urethra (fig. 295 & 296, e) situated be- low the clitoris; and of the os vaginas (fig. 295 & 296, f), which was of the usual size and diameter. Altogether the aperture of the vulva was natural. The canal of the urethra was of the usual length, as seen at u in the section