677 ANIMAL HEAT. ceases after a certain interval of variable extent, according to various circumstances; and a state of tranquillity comes on in which the body has recovered the faculty of engendering by the ordinary means the quantity of heat ne- cessary to the comfortable existence of the in- dividual. After this the repetition with greater or less frequency of the same acts ends by restoring the calorific function to the state in which insensible reaction suffices to maintain it in its sufficiency. In the first case it is a strong individual able to make the voluntary and energetic efforts required to remedy the inconvenience he suffers. In the other instance it is an individual who has not the strength requisite to make such efforts. In this case nature supplies the deficiency by exciting directly the motions of circulation and respira- tion by the painful impression of cold. Al- though the condition of the first be the state of health, and that of the second properly a morbid state, they nevertheless have many relations in common, which differ princi- pally in degree. Does not the robust indivi- dual experience an inconvenience for which he finds a remedy in violent and repeated efforts ? However robust he may be under ordinary cir- cumstances, in the extraordinary condition in which he is placed the usual vital processes no longer suffice him. He must have recourse to violent means which disturb the economy ; and by a repetition of the same efforts at diffe- rent periods, that is to say, in tits or paroxysms, he ends by so far fortifying hirnelf as to be able to do without them. Is not this tantamount to remedying a relative infirmity of constitution ? Let its degree increase but a little, and the infirmity becomes disease. This parallel is not founded on vague and superficial resemblances, but on determinate and fundamental relations. There is not one essential point in the compari- son which does not rest on the result of direct experiments, most of which have been quoted in preceding parts of this article. What must be done to justify the similitude of these two stales ? With regard to the state of health the connexion of phenomena having reference to the hygienic and voluntary reaction is well known. With reference to the relation between the symptoms in the morbid state and the morbid reaction, it remains to be proved that under circumstances where there is but slight production of heat, the feeling of cold may induce acceleration in the respiratory and circu- latory motions. Now it has been established by experiments already quoted, that there is reac- tion of this precise kind in such circumstances. We have seen, for instance, that when a bird, naked or scantily covered with feathers, is taken from the nest and exposed to the air even in summer, it speedily begins to shiver, and to exhibit a reaction in accelerated motions of respiration, which is followed by, and indeed implies increased rapidity in the motions of the heart and current of the blood. It were also proper to show that the cold state may, by means of the violent and involuntary reaction, induce the restoration of heat. This is also susceptible of proof by means of direct expe- riment. To this end an individual (a young bird from the nest) must be chosen of such an age that the temperature will not be apt to fall too low on exposure to the air. If the choice have been fortunate, it will be found that the temperature sinks in the first instance, and then rises, so that it may even surpass the de- gree it showed at first, under the influence of the reaction occasioned by the acceleration of the motions of respiration and circulation. The proof here is, therefore, extremely satis- factory. A creature in a state of health is taken and placed in circumstances in which the same essential symptoms are produced in the same order as in the morbid state which we have described. It can scarcely be necessary to say that the morbid state which we have described in man is that of simple intermittent fever. Not only in the beginning of this disease is there a feeling of cold, but recent accurate ob- servations have shown, by means of the ther- mometer, that there is actual refrigeration. There is, therefore, lesion of the calorific func- tion in the sense previously indicated, that is, there is decrease in the power to produce heat. Subsequently the temperature rises whilst there is still more or less of the sensation of cold remaining ; but this only happens by vir- tue of a general disposition of the nervous system. The same thing, in fact, occurs in a state of perfect health ; when the body has for some time been exposed to severe cold, the sensation continues for a certain interval after it has been restored to the normal temperature. It is of little consequence, as regards the sub- ject which engages our attention, that there are some intermittent fevers which do not exhibit the phenomena of temperature that have been described. We are only interested in proving that some do occur which present them all,—a fact that has been demonstrated by the best authorities. There is consequently in these cases a lesion of the calorific function, a lesion of which the essence consists in a diminution of the faculty of producing heat. In a constitution capable of re-acting by the acceleration of the respiration and circulation, we may observe upon this occa- sion two principal modifications of the morbid state, which both depend on the same cause, but which differ in degree. The first is that described in which the reaction suffices to restore the calorific power to the degree com- patible with health after one or more fits or paroxysms. With regard to the second, the diminution of the function of calorification may be so great, that the reaction may prove in- adequate to restore it, not only permanently but even momentarily. Theie are in fact diseases of this kind ; there are many regular intermittent fevers that have no tendency to spontaneous cure ; there is also one particular form of the disease which proves speedily fatal without the intervention of art. This is that form of intermittent which is known at Rome especially under the name of ihej'cbbrc qlgidq, or cold fever. It often happens that the patient,