ORGAN OF HEARING. 543 Not much is known of the veins of the laby- rinth. The internal auditory artery is accom- panied by a corresponding vein which carries away the blood from the labyrinth, and empties it into the superior petrosal sinus. Another vein, says Weber,* goes perhaps from the laby- rinth through a small opening in the cleft of the aqueduct, and empties itself into the trans- verse sinus. Of the veins of the cochlea, some, according to Breschet, accompany their arteries; others enter the sinus, lodged in the substance of the outer margin of the spiral lamina. Near the base of the cochlea, this sinus communicates with the veins of the vestibule. Nothing is known of the absorbents of the labyrinth. Fig. 247. A section of the cochlea parallel to its axis, showing the distribution of the vessels in its interior. It is the veins that are delineated, but their distribution is almost the same as that of the arteries. Magnified. (From Breschet.) a, a. Veins accompanying the trunk of the coch- lear nerve, and penetrating the nervous branches across the spiral lamina ; b. first anastomoses at the periphery of the osseous zone ; c, c. second anasto- moses at the periphery of the middle zone ; d. last ramuscules, which are almost parallel, occupying the membraneous zone ; e, e, e. venous sinus in the peripheral margin of the membraneous zone. II. Accessory parts of the apparatus OF HEARING. Of these parts, the auricle collects the so- norous undulations, and the auditory passage conducts them to the middle ear or tympanum, where they are modified and transmitted to the sensitive part of the apparatus, the ear-bulb. A tympanum is found in reptiles, birds, and Mammifera, a perfect external ear only in the Mammifera. The lip-like folds of skin before the membrana tympani, in some birds and rep- tiles, may, however, be considered rudiments of an external ear. Among the Mammifera, the Cetacea have no auricle, and only a very contracted auditory passage. It was said that the tympanum exists in a greater number of animals than the cochlea. This refers to a discovery made by Weber,f that a prolongation of the swimming-blad- * In Hildebrandt's Anatomie. t De Aure et auditu Hominis et animalium, Lipsiae, 1820. der in the herring, in the cyprinoid fishes, in silurus glanis, and in several species of cobitis, has a connexion with the membraneous labyrinth in the same manner that the prolon- gation of the mucous membrane of the throat, forming essentially the tympanum and Eusta- chian tube, is extended to the surface of the labyrinth; and moreover, that in all those fishes, with the exception of the herring, there exist bones analogous to the tympanic ossicles in the higher animals. 1. The middle ear, or tympanum, and its ap- pendages. The cavity of the typunum, cavitus tympani; Fr. cuisse du tympan ou du tambour; Germ, die Trommelhohle oder Paukenhohle.—The cavity of the tympanum is a space lying at the peri- pheral surface of the ear-bulb, and measuring from above downwards as well as from before backwards about four-tenths of an inch, and from without inwards about three-twentieths of an inch. It is bounded internally by the outer wall of the osseous labyrinth ; externally by a vibratile membrane, the membrana tympani, and that portion of the temporal bone into , which it is framed. Anteriorly a canal, the [' Eustachian tube, leads from it into the throat; and posteriorly and superiorly it communicates with the mastoid cells. The cavity of the tympanum is traversed by a chain of small bones, extending from the membrana tympani to the vestibular fenestra, and is lined by a very delicate membrane of a fibro-mucous character, which is prolonged into all its sinuosities and dependent cavities. This membrane is moreover reflected on the parts which traverse the cavity, and envelopes them. The lining membrane of the tympanum is con- tinuous through the medium of that of the Eustachian tube, with the mucous membrane of the throat. A condition essential to the due performance of the function of the tympanum is that the external air have free access to its cavity. Examined on the dry bone, the inner wall of the tympanum presents a considerable emi- nence; behind and below which is an opening somewhat of a triangular form, and in a fossa above it another opening, about twice the size of the preceding, and of an ovoid shape. From the description which has been already given of the osseous labyrinth,' it will be immediately perceived that the eminence in question, called the promontory, is that which the commence- ment of the cochlea forms; that the opening below and behind it is the fenestra rotunda or cochlear fenestra, and the opening above it the fenestra ovalis or vestibular fenestra. The surface of the promontory is marked by a groove ; sometimes instead of a groove there is a canal. This groove is continuous below with a canal, several lines in length, which opens in that depression in the partition be- twixt the lower orifice of the carotid canal and the foramen lacerum posterius. Above, in front of the vestibular fenestra, the groove again runs into a canal which proceeds forwards and up- wards between the canal for the internal muscle of the malleus and the commencement of the