EYE. 198 of the spheve, again form another axis or centre, and return in the direction O F, and the fila- ments O F, again on the other side of the sphere, collect round a third centre, and thence return in the direction K M; so that the fila- ments which are on this side of the sphere collect round a third centre, and thence return in the direction KM; so that the filaments which are on this side the shortest, on the other side are the longest, and those which there are the shortest are here the longest." Annexed is Leeuwenhoek's representation (fig. 119). Fig. 119. Dr. Young differs from Leeuwenhoek as to the arrangement of the fibres and other parti- culars, and in his last paper corrects the de- scription given by himself in a former one ; he says, " The number of radiations (of the fibres) is of little consequence, but I find that in the human crystalline there are ten on each side, not three, as I once from a hasty observation concluded." " In quadrupeds the fibres at their angular meeting are certainly not conti- nued as Leeuwenhoek imagined." Beneath is Dr. Young's last view of the arrangement of the fibres, which Dr. Brewster has shown to be incorrect, but the introduction of which is jus- tified by the source from which it is derived. Fig. 120. Sir David Brewster says that the direction of the fibres is different in different animals; the simplest arrangement being that of birds, and the cod, haddock, and several other fishes. In it the fibres, like the meridians of a globe, con- verge to two opposite points of a spheroidal or lenticular solid, as in the annexed figure. Fig. 121. The second or next simplest structure he detected in the salmon, shark, trout, and other fishes ; as well as in the hare, rabbit, and por- poise among the mammalia; and in the alli- gator, gecko, and others among reptiles. Such lenses have two septa at each pole, as in the annexed figure. % Fig. 122. The third or more complex structure exists in mammalia in general, " in which three septa diverge from each pole of the lens, at angles of 120°, the septa of the posterior surface bisect- ing the angles formed by the septa of the ante- rior surface, as in the annexed figure(7?g.l23).