58 \ HEART. (columns cameo,, teretes lacerti) project from the inner surface. We will find that they present three different appearances in both ventricles. 1. The more numerous are attached to the .walls of the ventricles by their two extremities, so that we can introduce a probe under the middle part. These divide and sub- divide in a variety of ways. 2. Others are attached to the walls of the ventricles by the whole of their external surface, while their internal surface stands in relief from these walls. 3. Others are fixed to the walls of the ventricle by their lower extremities, are perfectly free in the rest of their course, and terminate either in a blunt extremity or in several short pro- cesses. These last are few in number, nearly vertical, and have received the name of musculi papillures. These columnae carnese form an in- tricate network on the inner surface of the ventricle, and some of them occasionally cross its cavity near the apex. They are more numerous on the anterior and external than on the posterior and internal walls. Two large openings are placed at the base of the ventricle. The larger, oval in the empty, somewhat cir- cular in the distended heart, is the right auriculo-ventricular opening, the upper margin of which was already seen in the right auricle. The smaller is circular, is placed anterior and to the left, is about three-quarters of an inch higher than the larger, and is the orifice of the pulmonary artery. That portion of the ven- tricle from which the pulmonary artery springs is prolonged upwards above the level of the rest of the ventricle. To this prolongation Cruveilhier has given the name of the infun- dibulum.* The inner surface, particularly the posterior part of this infundibulum, is smooth and deprived of columnae carnea-. Around the auriculo-ventricular opening a valve is placed, the fixed margin of which is attached to the circumference of the opening; the free margin projects into the ventricle. This valve, which forms a complete ring at its attachment, termi- nates in several apices, three of which are much more prominent than the rest, and on this account it receives the name of the tricuspid or triglochin valve (vulvulu trigloclris v. tri- cuspis). The anterior of these three portions, which is placed on the side nearest to the orifice of the pulmonary artery, is more prominent and broader than the posterior and internal portions, and is separated from them by deeper notches than these two are from each other. From this circumstance some are inclined to consider this valve as consisting of two portions only. It contains several small tubercles at its free margin. * This part is very minutely described by Wolff under the term conns arteriosus. Under the term infundibulum Wolff included a larger portion oi the ventricle, apparently that portion placed above a line drawn from the upper and right margin of the ventricle obliquely downwards to the anterior fissure. As the upper part of the right ventricle becomes gradually narrower, he supposed that it increases the velocity and impetus of the blood as it is driven from the ventricle.—Acta Acad. Imper. Petropol. pro anno 1780, torn. vi. p. 209. 1784. This valve, like the other valves at the arterial and left auricular orifices, to be afterwards described, is composed of a reduplicatureof the lining membrane containing some tendinous fibres between them. It is translucent and of great toughness. A number of tendinous cords (chorda tendinete) pass between the apices of these valves and the inner surface of the ven- tricle. Though the arrangement of these chordae tendineae is not uniform in all cases, yet it is of importance to remark, as prominently bearing upon the discussions connected with the man- ner in which these valves at the auriculo-ven- tricular opening perform their office, that their general distribution is the same, and evidently intended for a specific purpose.* The greater part of these chordae tendineae spring from the free and blunt extremities of the third kind of columnae carneae (musculi papillures) which we have described ; some from the other two kinds, and others again from the smooth portion of the septum, and more particularly from the low;er part of the smooth surface which leads into the infundibulum. These tendinous cords diverge to reach their insertion, some of them dividing and subdividing two or three times, occasionally crossing each other, and are inserted principally into the apices and margins of the notches which separate the valve into its three portions. A few of these cords pass between the columns and inner surface of the ventricle without being attached to the valve. The internal lip of the valve has its lower margin tied more closely down to the surface of the ventricle by these cords than the other two lips ; besides several short cords frequently pass between the internal surface of the ven- tricle and the ventricular surface of that portion of the valve. At the exit of the pulmonary artery from the upper, anterior, and left part of the ventricle, three valves are placed (fig. 268). These from their form have received the name of semilunar or sigmoid valves. Their fixed margins are convex,and adhere to the tendinous ring to which the origin of the artery is attached ; their free edges, from the presence of a small triangular tubercle in the middle of each (cor- pus Arantii, corpusculum Morgagni, corpus sesamoideum,) form two slight semilunar curves (fig. 268). Theextremitiesof the curved attached edges look in the course of the artery. When the blood rushes from the ventricle into the pulmonary artery, the valves are laid against the sides of the vessel, and the free edge becomes vertical; when, on the other hand, a portion of the blood falls back towards the ventricle, the valves are thrown inwards and completely occupy the calibre of the artery. At this time the concave surfaces of the valves are directed in the course of the artery, the convex surfaces towards the ventricle. These valves may be distinguished by the terms anterior, posterior or left, and superior or right. The suggestion of * Mr. T. W. King states (Guy's Hospital Reports, no. iv. p. 123.) that there is a disposition in the chordae tendineae from each fleshy column to attach themselves to the adjoining edges of two lips of the valve, as in the left ventricle.