817 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. cases was unknown. When we carefully ex- amine the author's account of them, and refer to the eight accompanying drawings he has given of them, doubts may well arise in the mind as to whether these are to be considered congenital luxations, or the result of accidents which had occurred after birth. The author does not himself seem free from suspicion on this matter, for, in commencing his observa- tions on the pathological anatomy of cases of luxation of the femur on the dorsum ilii, upwards and outwards, he says, " elles sont tantot congeniales, tantot posterieurs a la nais- sance. Existe-t-il des differences notables entre les unes et les autres sous le point de l'anatomie pathologique ? II m'est permis d'en douter jusqu'a ce que des faits positifs aientetabli le contraire." We have in some of the preceding pages adduced what we have considered positive proofs that the anatomical characters of the congenital luxation of the hip- joint are altogether peculiar, and the appearances either in the living or the dead are in our opinion by no means to be confounded with those which are the result of luxations which have occurred after birth, and have been left unreduced. When opportunities have occurred of exa- mining the hip-joints of those who have for many years survived a dislocation of the head of the femur upwards and backwards on the dorsum ilii, and which had been left unre- duced, remarkable changes have been noticed to have taken place in the bones and surround- ing structures. Muscles.—The muscles of the dislocated hip have been found for the most part in a state of comparative atrophy, and the direction of their fibres has of course been altered by the ascent of the superior extremity of the femur. Among the muscles of the hip-joint the con- dition of the gluteus minimus has been most dwelt on by authors. It is stated on the respectable authority of Boyer, that when the head of the femur is dislocated upwards and backwards on the dorsum ilii, it passes between the external iliac fossa, and the little gluteus; that it carries this muscle up, and is as it were capped by it (" pour ainsi dire coiffee"). This muscle, he elsewhere adds, envelopes imme- diately the head of the femur ; it undergoes very remarkable changes; it becomes pale; ■its fibres disappear almost entirely, and are changed into a fibrous substance which is firm and solid, and which has been sometimes seen converted into bone. Cruveilhier seems to have adopted Boyer's idea as to the change this muscle undergoes in these cases. But if it be true, as we believe it is, that at the moment the luxation we are now considering occurs, the limb is in a state of semiflexion, we shall find it difficult to conceive how the head of the bone in passing can encounter any of the fibres of the glutaeus medius or minimus, except it be the most posterior and inferior of them. Mr, Wallace has, in the Transactions of VOL. II. the College of Physicians in Ireland,* given a very minute and valuable account of a case of dislocation of the head of the femur on the dorsum ilii. The history of the case was un- known ; but the state of the parts engaged left no doubt on his mind that it must have been many years since the bone had been dislocated, and from the appearance of the body he con- cluded that the subject was not less than fifty. The glutei muscles were in a state approach- ing to that of atrophy : the posterior edge of the glutaeus medius ran exactly over the head of the femur; the texture of the gluteus mini- mus resembled adeps more than healthy mus- cular fibre. The pyriformis did not extend to the tro- chanter major, but terminated at the distance of some inches from this process, in the new capsule which covered the head of the femur. There was not a trace of the obturator internus, its place having been occupied by a quantity of fat of a peculiarly gristly texture ; the quadratus and gemelli were pale and small, and were bisected by an irregular tendinous line. The direction of these muscles between their points of attachment was more oblique than natural; the psoas and iliacus were diminished in size, and their line of direction from the brim of the pelvis to their connexion with the lesser tro- chanter was altered, as was also the direction of the triceps, pectinales, and obturator exter- nus, all which were carried upwards above the level of their usual course by the elevation of the upper extremity of the femur on the dorsum ilii. The femoral vessels and nerves having passed under Poupart's ligament, were sunk into a deep fossa, and extended backwards and out- wards until they approached the lesser trochan- ter; they ran more in a serpentine or tortuous course than the corresponding vessels of the opposite limb; the sciatic nerve was flattened, its direction curved, and its vessels were vari- cose. Its entire structure appeared as if it had been the seat of chronic inflammation. Ligaments.—In this case a very strong liga- mentous fasciculus extended below the anterior and lower part of the llio-pubic eminence and the lesser trochanter; this must have per- formed the function of a check ligament to the motion of eversion, for any attempt at turning the limb outwards rendered this ligament very tense. A thick capsule surrounded the new articulating surface of the ilium, and also the head and neck of the femur; although the inner surface of this was smeared with synovia, it had not the smooth aspect of an original syno- vial membrane. There was imbedded in the capsule a piece of bone of a rounded figure, half an inch in diameter.f There were no re- mains of round ligament. Hones.—The great trochanter was thrown forwards with respect to the head of the bone : the anterior internal and inferior portion of the head of the femur was applied to the dorsum ilii, and there was an articulating surface worn * Vol. V. p. 252. t Mr. W. imagined this to be a portion of the acetabulum. 3 H