DIGESTION. 20 The next experiments which we possess are those of Marcet, who operated upon the chyle as procured from dogs. One main object of his researches was to ascertain how far chyle of animal origin differs from that from vege- tables, and he had the food of the dogs regu- lated accordingly. His results with regard to the general nature and properties of chyle cor- respond very exactly with those of Vauquelin. He found the coagulum to have a pink colour, and to contain a fibrous or filamentous sub- stance, while the liquid part contained a quan- tity of an oily matter, which floated on its surface like cream. This oily matter appeared, however, to be confined to the animal chyle, and it is remarked generally, that this bore more resemblance to blood than the chyle from vegetables. They contained the same saline ingredients, but the solid residuum of the animal chyle was considerably greater; and as the vegetable chyle, when submitted to destructive distillation, was found to contain much more carbon, it was inferred that the animal chyle must have contained proportion- ably more hydrogen and nitrogen.* Upon these experiments we may remark, that the difference between the animal and the vege- table chyle in this case might perhaps depend in some degree upon vegetable food being less adapted to the digestive organs of the dog ; because the chyle of the horse, as examined by Vauquelin, appeared to be more completely animalized, although it must have been derived from vegetable diet. The experiments of Dr. Prout agreed gene- rally with those of Vauquelin and Marcet; he found the coagulum and the fluid part analogous to the two components of the blood, and he likewise observed the oily matter. He compared the chyle derived from animal, with that from vegetable food, and detected the oil in both of them, and, upon the whole, he found them to differ less than was supposed by Marcet; he remarks, however, that the latter contains more water and less albuminous matter than the former.f We were likewise indebted to Dr. Prout for an interesting ac- count of the successive changes which the chyle experiences, from its entrance into the lacteals, until it is finally deposited in the thoracic duet, its gradual conversion into blood corresponding to the progress along the vessels.]: While the alimentary mass passes through the small intestines, the chyle, as it is separated from it, is taken up by the lacteals, so that when it arrives at the large intestines, nothing remains but the residuary matter, whch is to be discharged from the system; this consli- lin, but they do not contain much precise informa- tion ; Ann. Chim. t. lxxx. p. 81 et seq. * Med. Chir. Trans, v. vi. p. 618 et seq. f In some late experiments which were per- formed by MM. Macaire and F. Marcet, on the origin of nitrogen in animals, they analyzed the two species of chyle, and found them to be nearly the same in their chemical composition, and espe- cially in respect to the quantity of nitrogen which they contained ; Ann. Chim. t. li. p. 371. | Ann. Phil. v. xiii. p. 22..5. See also Magendie, Physiol, t. ii. p. 154..8. tutes what has been termed the process of defecation. There can be no doubt that the principal and primary use of the large in- testines is to serve as a depository for this residuary mass, yet there are certain circum- stances in their anatomical and physiological structure, which might render it probable that some farther purpose is served by them than the mere retention of the faeces. Dr. Prout, who has minutely examined. the successive changes which the contents of the intestinal canal experience, observes that the secretions even of the rectum still possess the property of coagulating milk, which we noticed above as being one of the most distinguishing cha- racters of the digestive system, so that it would seem that these organs, in some way or other, still assist in the process of nutrition. We may presume, however, that this is only a secondary object, and that the primary use of the large intestines is to serve as a reservoir, in which the faecal mass might be retained, in order to be evacuated at certain intervals only.* (See Intestinal Canal.) Before we dismiss this part of our subject, it may be proper to make a few remarks upon two of the abdominal viscera, which, from their anatomical position and their physiological rela- tions, are generally classed among the chylopoi- etic organs, as being supposed to contribute to the function of digestion; these are the pancreas and the spleen. The pancreas bears a very near resemblance to the salivary glands of the mouth and fauces, both from its intimate structure and from the nature of its secretions, and it has been presumed, that it acts in the same manner upon the aliment ;f it must, however, be admitted that we have little but analogy or conjecture in favour of this opinion. The spleen is an organ which, both from its size, its situation, and the number of blood- vessels belonging to it, has been supposed to serve some important purpose in the animal economy, and from its apparent connexion with the stomach to be, in some way, concerned in the process of digestion. ^But although many * Prout, ut supra, p. 15 . . 22 ; see also Soem- mering, Corp. Hum. Fab. t. vi. ยง 241. We do not perceive that there is any foundation for the hy- pothesis of Sir E. Home, that the colon is the organ in which the adipose matter is produced, lect. v. i. p. 468 et seq. and Phil. Trans, for 1821, p. 34. Dr. O'Beirne has lately published an essay on the process of defamation, to which we shall refer our readers, as containing some new views ,on the subject. We are indebted to Berzelius for an ana- lysis of the faeces, which appears more minute than any that had been previously made. t For an account of the pancreas and its secre- tions we may refer to De Graaf, Tract. Anat. Med. as the first correct treatise on the subject; to Boer- haave, Pralect. $101, cum notis; Haller, Prim. Lin. cap. 22. and El. Phys. xxii.; Soemmering, Corp. Hum. Fab. t. vi. p. 142..8; Fordyce, ut supra, p. 70.. 2; Blumenbach, Inst. Physiol. $24: Santorini, tab. 13. fig. 1. Tiedemann and Gmelin have given us the result of their examina- tion of the pancreatic juice, from which they con- clude that it differs in some respects from the saliva; Recherches, t. i. p. 41, 2. Eeuret and Lassaigne, on the contrary, suppose these secre- tions to be very neaily identical; Recherches, p, 49 et seq.