HERMAPHRODITISM. 715 external genital parts of one sex to those of the other, and in the different degrees and varieties of reunion or co existence of the reproductive organs of the two sexes upon the body of the same individual. Hermaphroditism, however, may appear not only in what are termed the primary sexual parts or characters, or, in other words, in the organs more immediately subser- vient to copulation and reproduction, but it may present itself also in the secondary sexual characters, or in those distinctive peculiarities of the sexes that are found in other individual parts and functions of the economy, as well as in the system at large. We have occasionally an opportunity of observing some tendency to an hermaphroditic type in the general system, without there being any very marked corre- sponding anormality in the sexual organs them- selves, but it rarely happens that there exists any hermaphroditic malformation of the primary organs of generation, without there being con- nected with it more or less of an hermaphrodi- tic type in the secondary sexual characters; and this circumstance often offers us, in indivi- dual doubtful cases, a new and perplexing source of fallacy in our attempts to determine the true or predominating sex of the malformed individual. Before, however, describing that variety of hermaphroditism which manifests itself in the general system and in the secon- dary sexual peculiarities, it will be necessary, in order to understand its nature and origin, to premise a few remarks on the dependence and relation of these secondary characters upon the normal and abnormal conditions of the primary sexual organs. That the various secondary sexual peculiari- ties which become developed at the term of puberty are intimately dependent upon the changes that take place at the same period in the organism of the female ovaries and male testicles, seems proved by various considera- tions, particularly by the effect produced by original defective development and acquired disease in these parts, and by the total removal of them from the body by operation. In consi- dering this point we shall speak first of the effects of the states of the ovaries upon the female constitution, and shall then consider those of the testicles upen the male. When the usual development of the ovaries at the term of puberty does not take place, the se- condary sexual characters which are naturally evolved in the female at that period do not pre- sent themselves; and this deficiency sometimes occasions an approach in various points to the male formation. Thus in a case recorded by Dr. Pears,* of a female who died of a pectoral affection at the age of twenty-nine, the ovaries on dissection were found rudimentary and in- distinct, and the uterus and Fallopian tubes were present, but as little developed as before puberty. This individual had never menstru- ated nor shewed any signs, either mental or corporeal, of puberty. The mammas and nip- ples were as little developed as those of the male subject. She had ceased to grow at ten * Phil. Trans, for 1805, p. 225. years of age, and attained only the height of four feet six inches. In another analogous instance observed by Renauldin,* scarcely any rudiments of the ovaries existed, and the body of the uterus was absent, but the external genital female organs were well formed. The individual who was the subject of this defective sexual development had never menstruated ; the mamma were not evolved; in stature she did not exceed three and a half French feet; and her intellect was imperfectly developed. In reference to these and other similar in- stances that might be quoted,! it may be ar- gued that they do not afford any direct evidence of the evolution of the sexual characters of the female depending upon that of the ovaries, as the arrestment in the development of both may be owing to some common cause which gives rise at the same time to the deficiency in the development of the genital organs, and to the stoppage of the evolution of the body in gene- ral. That the imperfection, however, in the organism of the ovaries may have acted in such cases as the more immediate cause or precedent of the imperfection or non-appearance of the secondary characters of the sex, seems to be rendered not improbable, in regard to some, if not to all the instances alluded to, by the fact that the removal of these organs before the period of puberty, as is seen in spayed female animals, entails, upon the individuals so treated, the same neutral state of the general organiza- tion as was observed in the above instances; or, in other words, we have direct evidence that the alleged effect is capable of being produced by the alleged cause; and further, when in cases of operation or disease after the period of puberty, both ovaries have happened to be de- stroyed, and their influence upon the system consequently lost, the distinctive secondary characteristics of the female have been observed also to disappear in a greater or less degree. Thus in the well-known case recorded by Mr. Pott,% the catamenia became suppressed, the mammae disappeared, and the body be- came thinner and more masculine, in a healthy and stout young woman of twenty-three years of age, whose two ovaries formed hernial tu- mours at the inguinal rings, and were, in con- sequence of their incapacitating the patient from work, both removed by operation. Many facts seem to show that the act of menstruation most probably depends upon some periodical changes in the ovaries, if not, as Dr. Lee§ supposes, in the Graafian vesicles of these organs; and when the function be- comes suddenly and permanently stopped in a * Seances de l'Acad. Roy. de Med. 28 Fevrier 1826, and Medical Repository for 1826', p. 78. t Davis, in his Principles and Practice of Obste- tric Medicine, p. 513, refers to several instances in point. We may mention that Dr. Haighton found that after the Fallopian tubes were divided in rab- bits, the ovaries became gradually atrophied, and the sexual feelings were lost. Phil. Trans, for 1797, p.173. t Surgical Works, vol. iii. p. 329. § Article Ovarv in Cyclo. of Pract. Med.