GENERATION. 432 scarcely entitled to reject the hypothesis of their spontaneous generation, merely on the ground that, in this respect, they do not agree with the rest of the animal kingdom. Uarvey even, who established the proposition omne vivum ex ovo, seems yet to have acknowledged the ne- cessity of admitting some difference between the more ordinary form of generation by means of an egg and that which he called of the spon- taneous kind.* In conclusion, we may remark, that while we feel inclined to admit the existence of spon- taneous generation among some species of cryp- togamic plants, infusorial animalcules, and en- tozoa, it must be held in recollection that many of these productions, after their first origin, propagate their species as parents,—that the so- called spontaneous kind of generation is to be looked upon as no more than an exception to the general law of reproduction, — and that therefore extreme caution is necessary in admit- ting any organized body to be the product of spontaneous generation upon the mere negative evidence of the absence of its seeds or ova. II. SKETCH OF THE PRINCIPAL FORMS OF THE REPRODUC1IVE FUNCTION IN DIFFE- RENT ANIMALS. Before proceeding to detail the different steps of Human Generation, which forms the more immediate subject of consideration in this arti- cle, we shall endeavour to present a short pre- liminary sketch of the various forms which the reproductive function assumes in different classes of animals. Reproduction may be divided into non-sexual and sexual, according as the whole process is accomplished by one class of organs in a single individual, or by the concurrence of two diffe- rent kinds of organs placed either upon one or upon two separate individuals of the same species; the first form occurring among the simplest kinds of animals only, the second be- longing to all the vertebrated and the higher classes of invertebrated animals. 1. Non-sexual reproduction. — Of the non- sexual mode of reproduction three principal kinds may be distinguished, viz. first, by divi- sion ; second, by attached buds; and third, by separated gemma. Fissiparous generation.—The most common form of the fissiparous generation, as the first of these varieties has been called, is met with in some of the simpler Infusoria; but it also occurs occasionally in animals higher in the scale. It consists essentially in the division of the parent animal body into a certain number of subordinate masses, each of which, being endowed with independent life, becomes a new individual similar to that of which it originally formed a part. In some of the Infusoria in which the process of subdivision has been mi- nutely observed, fissures are seen to form in the sides of the animal which is about to be repro- duced ; these fissures gradually enlarge, and meeting widi one another, completely separate * See his Exercitations, as before quoted, pp. 327 and 343. the parts. In one kind of fissiparous genera- tion the parent body is split into irregularly shaped masses, in some two in number, in dif- ferent others, four, six, eight, or twelve, and in one, the Gonium pectorale, into as many as six- teen. Each of the subordinate masses, when first separated from its fellow, has an irregular shape, from which it gradually passes into the form and size of its parent. In a second form of the fissiparous genera- tion, the infusorial animal is divided into two equal and symmetrical halves; in some in- stances in a longitudinal direction, as in Bac- cillaria and some Vorticellte ; in others in a transverse direction, as in Paramcecium, Cycli- dium, and Trichoda. The propagation of the Volvox globator, a remarkable infusorial animalcule, may perhaps be considered as belonging to the first of the above-mentioned varieties of fissiparous genera- tion.* This animal consists of an external vesicle of a lenticular shape, moving rapidly through the water by means of cilia in a whirl- ing manner. Within this outer vesicle there are smaller ones of the same kind, in the inte- rior of each of which still smaller ones may be distinguished by the aid of a high magnifying lens. The outer vesicle may be regarded as the parent, and the inclosed vesicles as its young, for in propagation the outer vesicle bursts and is torn into shreds, while the inclosed ones are set free, each of them to execute its independent motions in the water, and in its turn to burst, and thus propagate its like in discharging those which it contains. A fissiparous kind of generation is not, how- ever, confined to the Infusoria, but occurs also in some of the Cestoidea and Annelida. The most remarkable example is met with in the Nais and Nerei?. In the first of these genera, a small portion separated from the tail becomes the new animal. Before the actual separation of this caudal portion, it is marked off from the rest by a notch, and there are gradually formed on its sides the joints, hairs, and other indica- tions of the organs of the complete animal in miniature. The notch enlarges, and the part at last drops off capable of independent existence. In the Nais, that part of the offspring by which it is attached to the parent becomes the head, and in this way, according to the singular notion of Gruithuisen, who observed this sort of reproduction with attention,t the tail of a Nais may be considered as gifted with perpe- tual life, since this part is extended into each of the new descendants.! We may regard as somewhat analogous to this kind of propagation the multiplication of individuals by division, which happens occa- sionally only or from accident in several of the lower animals which are usually reproduced * Another view taken of the reproduction of the Volvox globator is, that the young are formed in the manner of internal buds. t Nov. Act. Nat. Curios, torn. xi. % The segments of the infusorial animalcule that is propagating in the fissiparous mode are united by the parts which afterwards become the tails of the new individuals.