GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. 499 many different dogs. Seventeen of these were upon the living animal, with the view of as- certaining if this nerve were to be considered both a nerve of sensation and motion, and what are the effects of its section upon the associated movements of deglutition, and on the sense of taste. The other ten were performed on ani- mals immediately after they had been deprived of sensation, for the purpose of satisfying my- self to what extent it was to be considered a motor nerve. The most remarkable effect wit- nessed in these experiments was an extensive convulsive movement of the muscles of the throat and lower part of the face on irritating this nerve in the living animal, provided the irritation was applied to the trunk of the nerve before it had given off its pharyngeal branches, or to one of these pharyngeal branches sepa- rately. These movements were equally well marked upon pinching the cranial end of the cut nerve after it had been divided at its exit from the foramen lacerum, as when the trunk of the nerve and all its branches were entire. In some of these experiments we observed a remarkable difference between the effects of irri- tating this nerve before and after it had given off its pharyngeal branches, which is valuable on this account, that it may explain the discrepan- cies between the results obtained by Panizza, Dr. M. Hall, and the late Mr. Broughton on the one hand, and Dr. Alcock on the other. For though I do not mean to affirm that pinch- ing the lingual portion of the nerve is never followed by indications of suffering, (for from the irregularity in the origin of the pharyngeal twigs, and the difficulty of judging at the bottom of a deep wound in the living animal at what particular part these are all given off, it is generally impossible to decide where the lingual portion may be said to begin,) yet I have no hesitation in saying that if in several of these experiments we had operated only on that portion of the nerve which first presented itself, and not proceeded to dissect it back- wards towards its place of exit from the cra- nium, we should have gone away with the impression that the irritation of this nerve was followed by no convulsive movements, and little if any indications of suffering. From a review of all the experiments which I have performed upon the glosso-pharyngeal nerves, I am inclined to draw the following conclusions: — 1. That this is a nerve of common sensation, as indicated by the unequivocal expression of pain by the animal, when the nerve is pricked, pinched, or cut. 2. That mechanical or chemical irritation of this nerve before it has given off its pha- ryngeal branches, or of any of these branches individually, is followed by extensive muscular movements of the throat and lower part of the face. 3. That the muscular movements thus ex- cited depend, not upon any influence extending downwards along the branches of the nerve to the muscles moved, but upon a reflex action transmitted through the central organs of the nervous system. 4. That these pharyngeal branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve possess endowments connected with the peculiar sensations of the mucous membrane upon which they are distri- buted, though we cannot pretend to say posi- tively in what these consist. 5. That this cannot be the sole nerve upon which all these sensations depend, since the perfect division of the trunk of the nerve on both sides does not interfere with the perfect performance of the function of deglutition. 6. That mechanical or chemical irritation of the nerve, immediately after the animal has been killed, is not followed by any muscular movements when sufficient care is taken to in- sulate it from the pharyngeal branch of the par vagum. And we here observe an important difference between the movements excited by irritation of the glosso-pharyngeal and those of a motor nerve, for while the movements pro- duced by the irritation of the glosso-pharyngeal are arrested as soon as the functions of the central organs of the nervous system have ceased, those from irritation of a motor nerve such as the pharyngeal branch of the par vagum, continue for some time after this, and when all connexion between it and the medulla oblongata has been cut off by the section of the nerve. 7. That the sense of taste is sufficiently acute, after perfect section of the nerve on both sides, to enable the animal readily to recog- nize bitter substances. 8. That it probably may participate with other nerves in the performance of the function of taste, but it certainly is not the special nerve of that sense. The sense of thirst which is referred to the fauces and pharynx does not appear to de- pend entirely upon the presence of this nerve. The animals in which it was divided lapped water of their own accord. I observed one of those in which the nerves were found satisfac- torily divided, rise, though feeble, walk up (o a dish containing water, lap some of it, and return again to the straw upon which he was previously lying. In all experiments upon the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve in the dog, too great care cannot be taken to avoid the pharyngeal branch of the par vagum, which is sometimes situated in im- mediate contact with it, at other times one or two lines below it, and is frequently united to it by a considerable communicating branch, so that it may readily be mistaken for a large pha- ryngeal branch of the glosso-pharyngeal. This precaution is the more necessary, as I am con- fident that these two nerves differ from each other in function, and this must consequently seriously affect the results. I attribute the dif- ficulty of deglutition after section of this nerve in the living animal, and the muscular move- ments on irritating it in the animal recently killed, observed by two of the preceding ex- perimenters, to a want of sufficient precaution irf separating these nerves from each other. These results were only observed by me when the pharyngeal branch of the par vagum was im- plicated in the experiment. 2 L 2