G90 HERMAPHRODITISM. the case of a calf which Gurlt* believes to belong to the present head. Neither testicles nor scrotum were observed externally, and the penis or enlarged clitoris, which occupied its normal situation, was apparently perforated by the urethra, and crooked upwards so as to throw the urine in that direction. Mery f shewed by dissection the true sex of a monkey, the length of whose clitoris had deceived some observers with regard to the true sex of the animal. The enlarged clitoris was furrowed on its inferior surface. The clitoris of the female Quadrumana is, as shall be afterwards more particularly mentioned, relatively larger than in the human subject, and retains in a greater degree the size and type of structure of this organ in the embryo. We may here further mention that, as pointed out by Blumenbach,! the clitoris and orifice of the urethra are placed at some distance from the vagina and in front of it, in the rat, mouse, hamster, &c. This normal structure has some- times been mistaken for an hermaphroditic mal- formation .§ 2. From prolapsus of the uterus.—It may at first appear strange that this occurrence should ever lead to any difficulty in ascertain- ing the sex of the individual, though not only non-professional observers but even the most intelligent medical men have occasionally been so far misled by the similarity of the protruded organ to the male penis, as to mistake a female for a male. Of this circumstance some curious illustrations are on record. M. Veay, physician at Toulouse, has inserted in the Philosophical Transactions of London, vol. xvi. p. 282, a brief account of the case of Marguerite Malause or Malaure, who was entered as a female patient in the Toulouse Hospital in 1686. Her trunk, face, &c. pre- sented the general configuration of a female, but in the situation of the vulva there was a body eight inches in length when on its fullest stretch, and resembling a perfectly formed male penis in all respects, except in not being pro- vided with a prepuce. Through the canal perforating this body she was alleged to eva- cuate her urine, and from its orifice M. Veay had himself an opportunity of seeing the men- strual fluid flow. After being examined by several physicians she was pronounced to be more male than female, and ordered by the civil authorities to exchange the name of Mar- guerite for that of Amaud, and to wear male attire. In 1693 she visited Paris in her male habiliments, and reputed herself endowed with the powers of both sexes. The Parisian phy- sicians and surgeons who examined her seem all to have accorded in opinion with the faculty of Toulouse, until M. Saviard|| saw her and de- tected the supposed penis to be merely the prolapsed uterus. He reduced the protruded organ, and cured the patient. Upon the enigma * Lehrbuch der Pathol. Anat. Bd. ii. s. 193. t Hist, de l'Acad. (1686) torn. i. p. 345. $ Corap. Anat. p. 335. 4 Doebel, in Nov. Liter. Maris Balthici (1698), p. 238. || Recueil d'Observations Chirurgicales, p. 150. of her hermaphroditism being thus solved, she was permitted by the king, at her own request, to assume again her female name and dress. Sir E. Home* detected a case of reputed hermaphroditism of the same description as the last, in a French woman of twenty-five years of age, who exhibited herself in London, and pretended to have the powers of a male. The cervix uteri was uncommonly narrow, and pro- jected several inches beyond the external open- ing of the vagina. The everted mucous surface of the vagina had, from constant exposure, lost its natural appearance and resembled the ex- ternal skin of the penis. The orifice of the os tinea had been mistaken for the orifice of the urethra. The prolapsus had been observed at an early age, and had increased as the woman grew up. Valentinf mentions another analogous in- stance of sexual ambiguity produced by a prolapsus of the uterus. In this case the husband mistook the displaced organ for the penis, and accused his wife of having " cum sexu virili necquicquam commune." A case quoted at great length by A maud J from Duval, of reputed hermaphroditism in a person that was brought up as a woman, and married at twenty-one years of age as a male, but who was shortly afterwards divorced and imprisoned, and ordered again by the Court of Rouen to assume the dress of a woman, appears to us to belong very probably to the present division of our subject, the reputed penis being described as placed within the vagina. The recorded details of the case, however, are not so precise as to leave us with- out doubt in regard to its real nature. In cases such as those now mentioned, in which the prolapsed uterus, or, more properly speaking, the prolapsed uterus and vagina have been mistaken for the penis, it appears proba- ble that the neck of the uterus must have been preternaturally long and narrow, otherwise it would be difficult to account for the apparent small diameter and great length of the prolapsed organ. Among Professor Thomson's collection of anatomical drawings of diseased structures there is one of an uterus containing in its body a fibro-calcareous tumour, and having a neck of three inches in length. M. Cruveilhier § has represented a similarly diseased uterus with a neck of between five and six inches. An organ shaped in this manner, whether from congenital malformation or acquired disease, would, when prolapsed for some time, repre- sent, we conceive, a body resembling in form and size those observed in Saviard's and Home's cases. The prolapsus arising from a protrusion of an ordinary shaped uterus is generally of a greater diameter and roundness. This second species of spurious female her- maphroditism is not observed among the lower animals. B. Spurious hermaphroditism in the male.— * Comp. Anat. vol. iii. p. 318. t Pandectae Medico-Legales, t. i. p. 38, Casus xii. j Mem. sur les Hermaphr. p. 314-18. § Anat. Pathol, liv. xiii. PI. iv.