HERNIA. 757 backwards, to expand itself over the iliacus internus and psoas muscles ; and it is therefore called the fascia iliaca. These fasciae are per- fectly continuous as far inwards as the external border of the artery, and form a smooth and strong membranous wall for the abdomen in this situation, rather attached to Poupart's liga- ment than coming off or derived from it.* These fasciae separate at this spot and unite again between the artery and vein, thus forming a sheath for the former vessel : in like manner a separate sheath is formed for the vein, when they again separate and leave a small opening, which is the crural ring, but unite before they reach Gimbernat's ligament, to the abdominal surface of which they give an investment, but here the fibrous structure is very weak and differs little in appearance from cellular mem- brane. These fasciae then form a fiat, broad funnel, which has three apertures at top, and the membranous septa are of the greatest use in binding the anterior and posterior faces of this fuunel together : hence a hernia cannot escape through in company with the artery nor with the vein, and hence also the vein is not com- pressed nor its circulation interfered with, even although a. hernia close to it is in a state of strangulation. This funnel descends on the vessels, to which it becomes firmly attached, at about an inch and a half below Poupart's liga- ment, and, according to some anatomists, is there reflected up again on the vessels forming a cul-de-sac or bag. I thus consider the crural ring properly so called to be an aperture formed by a deficiency in the fascia iliaca and transversalis, just as the internal inguinal ring is formed in the latter membrane alone. It is occupied by a loose cellular tissue, and in general by a small absorbent gland. This ring is of a different size in different individuals; and where it is large, the person may be said to have an hereditary or congenital disposition to the disease ; but a liability to it may arise from accidental circumstances also. It is obvious that in proportion as the space beneath the crural arch is well filled, and the muscles tense and plump, the aperture at the ring must be small; also that it will be larger according to the greater breadth between the spinous process and the pubis, or as the space under the crural arch is deep. Hence it may be explained why this kind of rupture is fre- quent amongst women who have borne many children, with whom the parietes of the abdo- men are relaxed ; less frequent amongst young and healthy unmarried females, and scarcely known amongst men, the pelvis of the male being narrower, and his muscle better developed by use and exercise. The crural arch or Poupart's ligament is * Their importance in strengthening this part of the abdomen is proved by an experiment of Mr. Colles. " Make in the aponeurosis which covers the iliac muscle an opening capable of admitting the finger. Pass it between the aponeurosis and surface of the muscle, and you will be enabled, with- out much difficulty, to push the finger under Pou- part's ligament down to the fore part of the thigh." Colles, op. citat. p. 68. nothing more than the inferior pillar of the externa! inguinal ring, and is (as has been before stated) inserted into the crest of the pubis ; but it has another attachment to this bone, which, being in intimate relation with femoral hernia, I have delayed the description of until now. As the ligament approaches the pubis, its inferior edge becomes twisted upwards and backwards towards the linea ileo-pectinea, into which it is inserted for a length of from a half to three quarters of an inch. Its shape is triangular, its posterior attachment being somewhat shorter than its anterior ; and its base, which has its aspect towards the vein, is somewhat lunated. In the male its situation corresponds nearly with the external inguinal ring; and the sper- matic cord rests on it just as it is about to pass from the inguinal canal. The fibrous funnel-like sheath already des- cribed is itself lodged within a cavity which may be called the crural canal, and is thus formed. The fascia lata of the thigh in front has two origins, one from the whole length of Poupart's ligament, the other from so much of the linea ileo-pectinea as gives origin to the pectinalis muscle, and from the ligament of the pubis. This latter portion having passed down the thigh unites with the former below the en- trance of the saphena into the femoral vein, below which point they form one continuous sheath for the muscles of the limb. The por- tion, however, which comes from Poupart's ligament requires more attention. At first it lies completely in front of the upper part of the thigh, and of course leaves a triangular space between it and the other portion, in which are lodged the funnel-shaped fascial sheath, with its contents, the artery and vein, lymphatic vessels, and some glands. About half an inch, or in some subjects a little more, below Pou- part's ligament the internal portion of this fascia appears to be wanting, leaving the vessels un- covered by it as far down as the point of union of the two fasciae : I say appears to be wanting, because the fascia lata is really continued over this space, joins the pubic portion internally, and sends a process upwards to be inserted into the linea ileo-pectinea, external to the lunated edge of Gimbernat's ligament, and be- tween it and the edge of the femoral ring ; but it is here so thin and cellulated that it is generally removed in the dissection. When thus disposed of, the firm portion of the external fascia lata, as it passes to join the internal, assumes a lunated form above and below, and thus the entire apparent deficiency is made to appear of an oval figure, the edges of which are crescentic, and which have been called by the different names of Iley's ligament, Burns' liga- ment, and the crescentic edge of the fascia lata. A finger pushed from above through the crural ring will easily feel the superior margin of this aperture, and its influence on hernia in this situation will soon be made apparent. The femoral or crural canal then is from one-half to three-fourths of an inch in length, and is formed by the fascia lata : it is bounded above, anteriorly by Poupart's ligament and posteriorly by the linea ileo-pectinea; below, anteriorly by the crescentic