INSECTA. 987 itself vertically to undergo its change, the di- latation commences while the insect is spinning the silken hangings from which it suspends itself; so that the changes commence at a corresponding period in both insects. It is in the butterfly that we have most closely watched the development of the vesicles. During the period that the insect remains suspended it makes several powerful respiratory efforts, accompanied by much muscular exertion, and these efforts are continued at intervals until the old skin is fissured and thrown off. It is at this period that the tracheae become much en- larged, as we have found at about two hours after the insect has suspended itself. Meckel observed the sacs soon after the insect has entered the pupa state, but it will thus be seen that the expansion of the tracheae in the for- mation of these sacs commences very much earlier. At about half an hour before the in- sect becomes a pupa we have found the whole of the trachea; more distended, particularly those on the under surface of the thorax, from which branches are given to the legs, so that the elongation of these trachea; is probably connected with the subsequent rapid develop- ment and extension of those organs. At this period the tracheal of the abdomen have ex- perienced but little alteration. It is at the actual period of transformation that all the changes take place most rapidly. At that time the laborious respiratory efforts made by the insect appear greatly to affect the condition of all the organs. VVhen the skin is thrown off, these efforts cease for a few minutes, after which the abdominal segments become short- ened, and the circulatory fluid is propelled forwards, and the wings, then scarcely so large as hemp-seeds, are gradually distended at their base, and at each respiration are perceptibly enlarged, and carried downwards over the under surface of the thorax and first abdominal seg- ments. Carus* attributes the development of the sacs, and dilatation of the trachea;, to the entire closing of the spiracles, and expansion of the air contained within them, which he thinks is increased in quantity during the deve- lopment of the insect. But from the circum- stance that all the trachea are enlarged imme- diately after the insect has entered the pupa state, it seems probable that this enlargement is occasioned simply by the closing of the spiracles, and the expansion of the air within the trachea;, during the powerful respiratory efforts, aided by the receding of the circulatory fluid from the abdomen into the partially de- veloped wings, suddenly removing pressure from the tracheal tubes, which then become distended by the natural elasticity of the air contained within them; and further, that the subsequent enlargement of these tracheae into distinct bags is occasioned, not by an in- creased quantity of air in the vesicles, as Carus imagines, but simply by a continuance of the same cause that effects the first dila- * Introduction to Comparative Anatomy, trans- lated by Gore, 1827, vol. ii. p. 167, tation of the tracheae, the elasticity of the contained air, since the dilatation appears to keep pace with the gradually decreasing size of the digestive organs, and the spiracles are not permanently closed during the pupa state, respiration being continued at intervals, ex- cepting perhaps in the most complete state of hybernation. In accordance with this opinion we find that, at about half an hour after the change, the pro-thoracic tracheae that ramified over the oesophagus are enlarged to double their original diameter, and have begun to be detached from that organ. At seven hours these changes have been carried much farther. At twelve hours they are still further enlarged, and the principal alteration observed is the diagonal direction of those from the seventh spiracles, which supply the posterior extremity of the digestive stomach, owing to that organ having now become shorter, previously to its subsequent change. At eighteen hours all the trachea; of the head and thorax are still further enlarged, and those from the third spiracle are detached from the cardiac extremity of the stomach, and are more enlarged than the others, and those from the ninth spiracle, in the twelfth segment, which supply the colon, are begin- ning to be distinctly vesicular. At thirty-six hours not only have the longitudinal tracheae and their many branches become dilated, but those distributed to the different viscera have also become vesicular. At forty-eight hours the development of these parts is so far ad- vanced that the whole have assumed the vesi- cular form, and those at the anterior part of the abdomen occupy a great proportion of that region, and the dilatation of others proceeds until within a few days before the perfect insect is developed, before it is completed. The only difference we have observed between the development of these organs in the Sphinx and the butterfly is in the rapidity with which the changes are effected. The Sphinx re- mains many months in the pupa state, during a great part of which time the changes are almost or entirely suspended. The butterfly remains but a few days, and in consequence all the changes proceed with rapidity, which is either greater or less in proportion to the season of the year and temperature of the atmosphere. Function of respiration.—Having dwelt so long upon the structure of the parts concerned in respiration we cannot venture at any length upon the phenomena connected with the func- tion, which properly belong to a distinct sub- ject. (See Respiration.) We would remark, however, that the circumstances connected with it are in many respects particularly in- teresting, while the results are similar to those of the respiration in other air-breathing ani- mals. Thus the acts of respiration consist of alternate dilatations and contractions of the ab- dominal segments, the air entering the body chiefly at the thoracic spiracles, and partly also at the abdominal, during which the dorsal and ventral arches of the abdomen are alternately elevated and depressed, like the ribs of Ver- tebrata. The number and frequency of these