582 HEART. Fantonus, tl>at as three circular valves meeting in the axis of a canal would leave a small space in the axis itself, so the use of these corpora Arantii may be to fill up the interval which would thus otherwise be left, has generally been adopted.* These valves are thin and transparent, yet of considerable strength. Their attached are thicker than their free margins. That portion of the pulmonary artery which is placed immediately above the attachment of the semilunar valves bulges out and forms three projections, named from their discoverer sinuses of Valsalva. These sinuses are more apparent in old than in young persons. Lef t auricle (auricula sinistra; a. pos- terior ; atrium seu sinus venarum pulmonalium, a. aortkum). External surface.—It occupies the upper, posterior, and left part of the base of the heart, and receives the blood brought back from the lungs by the pulmonary veins. The only part of the left auricle that can be fairly seen after the pericardium has been opened, and none of the parts disturbed, is the appendix. To see it properly the pulmonary artery and aorta must be cut through and thrown forwards. It is of a very irregular shape, some anatomists comparing it to an oblong quadrilateral, others to an irregular cuboidal figure. Posteriorly it rests upon the spinal column, from which itis separated by the parts mentioned in describing the position of the heart itself, and appears as if confined between the spine and base of the heart,—a fact which has been considerably insisted upon in some of the explanations of the tilting motion of the heart. Superiorly and to the right it is connected to the auricle of the opposite side. More anteriorly and still to the right it is free, and is separated from the right auricle by the aorta and pulmonary artery. lis base is connected to the base of the corres- ponding ventricle. The auricle is prolonged forwards at first to the left, but bends towards the right before terminating. This prolongation is the appendix or proper auricle. This appendix is longer, narrower, more curved, more denticulated on the edges, and more capacious than the corresponding part of the right auricle, and projects along the left side of the pulmonary artery, a little beyond and below the anterior margin of the left ventricle. The two left pulmonary veins enter the posterior and left side, and the two right pulmonary veins enter the posterior and right side of the auricle. The left auricle, like the right, has been divided into sinus venosus and proper auricle. Inner surface.—The inner surface may be divided into, 1st, a posterior, which is smooth, and which belongs exclusively to itself; 2d, an * I find that the late Dr. A. Duncan, jun. has justly remarked that there is no necessity for calling in the aid of the corpora Arantii to produce the complete obstruction of the calibre of the artery, as the free edges of these valves, when they are thrown inwards, do not exactly lie in close apposition but overlap each other. Besides these bodies are occasionally very indistinct, and frequently do not project beyond the free margin of the valves, especially in the pulmonary semilunar valves. anterior, which communicates by a round opening with the cavity of the appendix; 3d, a right, the anterior and greater part of which is formed by the septum of the auricles. Upon this is observed the fossa ovalis, but without the distinct depression which it presented in the right auricle. The upper margin of the valve, between which and the upper thick edge of the fossa ovalis the oblique aperture exists, which we formerly stated to be frequently observed here, is often distinctly seen in the left auricle. The valvular nature of this small slit must prevent any intermixture of the blood of the two sides. This margin, when present, looks forwards and to the left. The two right pulmonary veins open upon this surface imme- diately posterior to the septum, and between the septum and posterior surface. 4th, A left, into which the two pulmonary veins of the left side open. The pulmonary veins of the two lungs are thus separated from each other by the whole breadth of the auricle. The veins of the same side open into the auricle, the one immediately below the other, so that they occupy the whole height of the auricle. The superior is generally the larger. The two veins of the same side occasionally enter by a common opening, or this may occur on one side only. At other times we may have five openings. These veins, like the cava;, have no valves at their termina- tion in the auricle. At the lower and anterior part of the auricle a large oval opening presents itself. This is the left auriculo-ventricular opening, and like that on the right side it has its upper margin surrounded by a white tendi- nous ring. This ring, unlike that of the right side, is everywhere sufficiently opaque to pre- vent the fat placed in the auricular groove to be seen through it. The inner surface of the left auricle differs materially from that of the right in its greater smoothness, and the consequently smaller num- ber of its musculi pectinati. In fact, the only place in which these are observed, and that too to a comparatively smaller extent than in the corresponding portion of the right, is the ap- pendix. This arises from the greater strength of the left auricle, the muscular fibres being so closely laid together as not to leave any interval between them. LeJ't ventricle (ventriculus sinister, v. pos- terior, v. aorticus.) External surface.—It is of a conical shape, and occupies the posterior and left part of the heart. It is rounded and does not present the flattened appearance of the right ventricle. It projects downwards beyond the right, and forms the apex of the heart. Though the left proceeds lower down than the right ventricle, that portion of the right called infundibulum or conus arteriosus mounts higher than any part of the left. The left is on the whole a little longer than the right. The circumference of the base of the right ventricle is greater than that of the left, exceeding it in some cases in the injected heart by about two inches. Internal surface. — This ventricle is best opened by making an incision close upon the