EYE. 181 black, and so loosely connected with the struc- ture in which it is deposited, that in dissecting the eyes of our common graminivorous animals under waterit becomes diffused, and colours the fluid as the ink of the cuttle-fish obscures the water into which it is shed. It is not confined to any one particular structure, but is deposited in every situation where it is necessary for the purpose for which it is destined. It is found in considerable quantity on the inner surface of the choroid, where it appears as if laid on in the form of a paint, and is frequently so described; but it is much more probable that it is deposited in the interstices of the exqui- sitely fine cellular membrane which connects the choroid with the delicate covering of the retina. In this situation it often, especially in infants, presents the appearance of a perfectly distinct black membrane, which may be peeled off in flakes or allowed to remain on the retina in patches, as noticed by Haller. It also per- vades the structure of the choroid, at least in the adult, and even stains the inner surface of the sclerotic and the cellular layer which con- nects these two membranes. It is deposited in larger quantity in the ciliary processes and upon the back and in the texture of the iris. In many animals it is found forming a black ring round the margin of the cornea and in the edge of the third eye-lid, as well as in the pecten or marsupium nigrum in birds. It is even sometimes found scattered, as if acci- dentally, as in the texture of the sclerotic in hogs, and within the sheaths of the optic nerve in oxen; it is obvious that it does not require any special form of organization for its produc- tion, but is merely secreted into the cellular membrane, where necessary, as the colouring matter is secreted with cuticle on the skin. It is darker in the earlier periods of life, and in the infant is more confined to the inner sur- face of the choroid and to the posterior surface of the iris, than pervading the texture of either of these membranes. In old age it evidently fades, and even appears as if absorbed in patches. It is sometimes altogether absent, as in those animals called albinos, where all the parts usually coloured are unstained. Its use is obviously to prevent the rays of light from being reflected from surfaces where they should be absorbed, a provision as essential to the perfection of the animal eye as to the artificial optical instrument. It is also applied to give complete opacity to prevent the transmission of light, and hence is deposited in large quantity in and on the iris, as well as in the ciliary pro- cesses which correspond in situation to the exposed part of the sclerotic, through which the light might otherwise pass to the bottom of the eye, and disturb correct vision. The layer of black pigment on the inner surface of the choroid has undergone a careful microscopic investigation, especially by Mr. T. W. Jones, the results of which are stated in a short account of the anatomy of the eye prefixed to the second edition of Mr. M'Kenzie's work on Diseases of the Eye: He says that it possesses organization and constitutes a real membrane, and when examined with the raiscroseope " is 106. seen to consist of very minute flat bodies of a hexagonal form, joined together at their edges. These bodies, which are about ^th of an inch in diameter, consist of a central transparent nucleus, surrounded by an envelope of colour- ing matter, which is most accumulated at their edges The centre, indeed, of each hexa- gonal plate is a transparent point, and appears somewhat elevated, the elevations on the inner surface corresponding to depressions to be described in the membrane of Jacob. That part of the membrane of the pigment situated on the pars mm plicata of the ciliary body around the ciliary processes, and on the poste- rior surface of the iris, is composed of irregu- larly rounded bodies, analogous to the hexa- gonal plates. In albinos the same membrane exists, but contains no pigment. The bodies composing it are but little deve- loped, being nothing but the central nuclei separated from each other by large intervals, and not hexagonal, but circular, or even globular." The annexed figure represents this mem- brane of the pigment as described. Sometimes the black pigment is totally or partially deficient, not only in inferior animals, but also in man, constituting the variety deno- minated albino, of which the white rabbit affords a good example. The circumstance lias attracted considerable attention, and has been the subject of particular observation by Mr. Hunter, Blumenbach, and many others. Dr. Sachs has given a curiously elaborate account of himself and his sister, who are botli albinos. The eye in such cases appears of a beauti- fully brilliant red, in consequence of the blood being seen circulating through the transparent textures unobscured by the pigment, but the individual suffers from the defect in conse- quence of the light being transmitted through all the exposed part of the organ; proving that the covering of black pigment is deposited on the back of the iris and in the ciliary pro- cesses to obviate this injurious consequence. In human albinos the eyes have often a tremu- lous oscillating motion, and the individual is unable to bear strong light. The colour of the black pigment does not ap- pear to depend on the presence of carbon or other dark material, and the minute quantity of oxide of iron contained in it is obviously insufficient for the production of so deep a tint. It is insoluble in water, either hot or cold, or in dilute sulphuric acid ; but strong nitric or sulphuric acids decompose it, and are decom- posed by it. Caustic potash is said to dissolve it, though with difficulty, but as ammonia is evolved during the process, and the nature of the pigment necessarily altered, it cannot be considered a case of simple solution. By destructive distillation it affords an empyreu- rcatic oil, inflammable gases, and carbonate of ammonia. It is, therefore, obviously an anw mal principle siii generis, its elements being oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, and nitrogen. One hundred parts in a dry state leave, when incinerated, 4.46 of acalx, consisting of chlo- ride of calcium, carbonate of hme, phosphate