ECHINODERMATA. 36 double rows on the inside of the shell (Jig. 10, d.) Monro describes each foot as communi- cating with two of these laminae, and conse- quently every lamina as receiving a branch from two feet; in our own dissections we have al- ways found that both branches of each foot belonged to one lamina. These branches are represented as cut at a in the annexed figure. Five longitudinal vessels run down on the inside of the shell, there being one in the middle of each double row of feet (figs. 10 and 14, u); lateral branches go off from these either directly to the feet or to the laminar plexuses when they are present. The five longitudinal vessels descending towards the mouth rise through the dental apparatus named the lan- tern, and open into five sacs or receptacles placed on its upper part, where according to Tiedemann they terminate. Monro on the other hand describes the sacs as communicating together, and states that from them the liquor passes down the sockets of the teeth, and is discharged into the sea. The vessels and la- minae are highly irritable, and by their contrac- tion distend the feet. Ten tubular tentacula, similar in structure to the feet, are situated in the vicinity of the mouth (fig. 15, d, d, d.) In Ech. esculentus they are attached to the small calcareous plates Fig. 15, Part of the inferior surface of tlie Echinus, a, mouth ; 6, b, margin of the inferior open- ing of the shell; e, e, membrane which fills it. which are imbedded in the membrane that fills up the aperture of the shell. The plates are each pierced with a hole, through which the tentacula communicate with the canals of the feet. In Holothuriee the feet are sometimes scat- tered over the whole surface of the body; in other species (as H. pentactesJ they are placed in five longitudinal and tolerably regular rows ; while in others again they are confined to the ventral surface, as in H. phantapus, where they form only three rows. The tubular part (fig- 20, b, b,) is in general very shorty and is connected with a simple vesicle inside. The vessels of the feet arise from a circular canal which surrounds the stomach near the fore part of the body. One or sometimes two large pyriform sacs (Jig. 34, b, p. 109, vol. i.) open into this canal, and a number of small brown hollow glandular-like bodies are also connected with it. Five vessels issue from it, which run forwards and terminate in a second canal situate immediately within the calcareous ring which surrounds the mouth. This se- cond circular canal is connected with the tentacula, as will be afterwards described, and it gives off five longitudinal vessels which run towards the posterior end of the body, and dis- tribute lateral branches to the vesicles of the feet. Tiedemann regards the fluid contained in this system of vessels as a secretion, and conceives that it nourishes the skin, the mus- cles, and tissue of the feet, besides supplying to the latter the mechanical means of their distension. Further observation would, how- ever, be required in order to determine its true nature, lor there is much reason to suspect that the fluid of the feet in other Echinoder- mata consists at least in great part of sea-water, and it is not to be supposed that in the Holo- thuria it should be materially different. Under this head we may notice the tentacula of the Holothuria (Jig. 34, o, p. 109, vol. i.) re- tracted, as they present a great analogy in struc- ture with the feet. These organs are placed round the mouth and are twenty in number; the ex- tremity of each is formed into a circular sucker surrounded by five or six branched processes. They are hollow, and a great part of them is lodged within the body; this internal part is long and tapering, and communicates by a .small orifice with the anterior circular canal already described, from which the tentacula receive their distending fluid. In the rest of their structure and in their mode of action they resemble the feet. They seem to be very sen- sible, and are probably used as organs of touch as well as prehension. In H. pentactes the tentacula are very large, much larger than in H. tubulosa. 3. Digestive organs.—The digestive appa- ratus is very simple. The sea-urchin and Holothuria have an alimentary canal with a mouth and anus, but in the star-fish there is merely a stomach with coecal appendages and only one orifice. The cavity in which the alimentary organs and other viscera are lodged is lined with a peritoneal membrane, which being reflected upon them forms their external tunic, and attaches them by a duplicature or mesentery to the inside of the cavity. The Echinodermata are said to live chiefly on tes- taceous mollusca and Crustacea. a. In Asterias a short but dilatable gullet leads to the stomach (Jigs. 16 and 22, f), which occupies the central part of the animal, and from the stomach a pair of lobulated coeca (g, g, and g', g', inflated,) pass into each ray. The stomach is connected at various places with the parietes of the body by ligamentous bands; it is thin and membranous, soft and corrugated on the internal surface, receiving externally a covering of peritoneum, and con- taining muscular fibres which are more obvious towards the lower part, when it adjoins the still more muscular oesophagus. Two or more blind sacs (I), branched in some species, open