EYE. 173 nished with a circle of prominent folds called ciliary processes, by means of which it is united to the corresponding surface of the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour. The an- nexed figure represents a section of this hollow sphere lodged within the sclerotic sphere. The external circle, a a, between the two black lines represents a section of the strong opaque membrane called the sclerotic, which consti- tutes the case or resisting sides of the organ ; b is the transparent lenticular window called cornea, which fills the aperture left in the ante- rior part of the sclerotic for its reception ; d d is the place of union between the sclerotic and cornea, to which the ciliary ligament on the outside of the anterior margin of the choroid sphere corresponds; e e the circle bounded by the line marking the inner surface of the sclerotic externally, and by the shaded part in- ternally, represents a section of the hollow sphere called choroid. At the point d d, cor- responding to the place of union between the sclerotic and cornea, this choroid projects exter- nally, encroaching upon the sclerotic in a pecu- liar manner, to be presently described as the ciliary ligament; while at the ■same'1 point it projects internally in the shape of--a" series of folds, to be described as the ciliary processes. The white productions extending from the same points in a vertical direction into the chamber of the aqueous humour, between the eorhe'a ahd crystalline lens, represent a section of -the screen called the iris, f is a section of the crystalline lens. " ?! Fig. 102. a Through a small aperture in the sclerotic apd choroid membranes in the bottom of the eye, the optic nerve is transmitted, and imme- diately expands into a texture of the most ex- quisite delicacy, called the retina. This con- stitutes a third spherically disposed membrane, not however of the same extent as the sclerotic or choroid, being discontinued at a distance of about an eighth of an inch from the anterior margins of these membranes. This is the ner- vous expansion endowed with the peculiar description of sensibility which renders the ani- mal conscious of the presence of light. The globe of the eye, as above described, is ob- viously divided by the iris into two chambers of very unequal dimensions; that in front bound- ed by the cornea being very small, and that behind bounded by the retina being very large. This large posterior chamber is distended by a spherical transparent mass, called the vitreous humour, which does not, however, fill this pos- terior chamber completely, but is discontinued or compressed at a short distance behind the iris, leaving a narrow space between it and that membrane, called the posterior chamber of the aqueous humour. This spherical mass is of ex- tremely soft consistence, and is composed of a delicate transparent cellular membrane called the hyaloid membrane, the cells of which are distended with a transparent fluid. In the small space between the anterior part of the vitreous humour and the back of the iris, called the posterior chamber of the aqueous humour, and lodged in a depression formed for its re- ception in the vitreous humour, is placed the double convex lens called the crystalline lens. The relation of these parts to each other may be seen in the last figure, and the one below represents the optic nerve expanded in the form of a spherical membrane over the sphere of vitreous humour, with the crystalline lens lodged Sn a depression on the anterior part of that sphere, and surrounded by a circle of radiating lines, which are delicate folds corres- ponding to the folds of the choroid, called the ciliary processes. Fig. 103. The piece of animal optical mechanism thus constructed is lodged in an open cavity of the skull called the orbit, and js furnished with six small muscles for its motions inserted into the outside of the sclerotic coat. The transparent cornea through which the light is transmitted is necessarily exposed, and not being in its nature suited to such exposure, is covered with a membrane called conjunctiva, which also extends over the sclerotic, where that membrane con- stitutes the anterior part of the globe, and then being reflected, lines the eyelids, and finally be- comes continuous with the skin of the face. The human eye is, as has been stated above, probably a sphere of about one inch in diameter. Petit, however, who appears to have first made the attempt to determine the proportions of the organ accurately, describes the axis to be to the diameter as 135 to 136, and the younger S6m- merring, apparently from his own observations, as 10 to 9.5. This belief in a slight differ- ence in dimension may, however, have b;ei