HEART. 594 Fig. 276. large veins. These fibres cross transversely between the anterior surface of the two auricles and connect them together. These superficial fibres are also prolonged into the interauricular septum (Jig. 277, f) to assist in forming the Fig. 277. circular band of fibres which surrounds the fossa ovalis. Gerdy figures a superficial band of fibres (Jig. 276, b) as belonging exclusively to the left auricle. The deep fibres belong exclusively to a sin- gle auricle. They are superficial at various parts, where the external or circular fibres are deficient. By their inner surface they are con- nected to the inner membrane of the auricles,and a thin layer of cellular tissue unites their outer surface to the inner surface of the superficial fibres. In the left auricle Gerdy describes, 1st, a left auricular loop (Jig. 276, c c, Jig. 277, c c), which embraces the auricle from its su- perior edge to its base, which runs a little obliquely to the left, before, above, and then behind the auricle, and is attached by its ex- tremities to the auricular tendinous ring near the septum. It is contracted at that part where it passes between the pulmonary veins. 2d. The pulmonary veins are surrounded by circu- lar fibres (fig. 276, d d, fig. 277, d d), which are continued along their course to a variable extent,-—sometimes they merely surround the termination of one or more of these veins, at other times I have seen them prolonged out- wards as far as the roots of the lungs. These fibres generally form a continuous layer, and of sufficient thickness to render them capable of constricting these vessels considerably. 3d. Some fibres proper to the appendix (fig. 276, m m), which, by passing between and uniting themselves to the other fibres of the appendix, form that reticulated appearance which it pre- sents in its inner surface. Some of these fibres are circular, others form incomplete circles. In the right auricle, Gerdy has described, 1st, a right auricular loop (fig. 276, h h, fig. 277, h), which is attached anteriorly to the tendinous structure at the base of the auricle; it extends upwards in the anterior edge of the septum auiiculorum ; it then curves round the fossa ovalis, of which it forms the projecting edge, and at the orifice of the vena cava supe- rior it divides into a right and left band. The first proceeds downwards, becomes engaged with some of the superficial fibres around the cava superior, and forms the angle between them (tuberculum Loweri), from which it passes downward to the auricular tendinous ring along the right side of the cava inferior. The left division passes along the left side of the cava inferior, in the posterior edge of the auricular septum, where it intermixes with the fibres which embrace the entrance of the coro- nary vein. 2d, Some muscular fibres (fig. 276, p), which pass between the anterior part of the tendinous ring and the appendix. 3d, Some circular fibres, which surround the en- trance of the cava superior (fig. 276, o) : these do not extend upwards beyond the orifice of the vein. 4th, The bundles of fibres which arise from the right side of the auricular ring proceed upwards to the posterior part of the appendix, and form the musculi pectinati seen in the interior of the auricle. 5th, A few fibres proper to the auricle (fig. 276, w), which assume the circular form. The action of all these fibres superficial as well as deep must be to diminish the capacity of their cavities, and draw them towards the auriculo-ventricular openings, and thus favour the passage of their contents through these openings. Inner membrane of the heart.—Each side of the heart has its own lining membrane, and botli of these are closely allied to the serous membranes in structure and appearance. They are continuous with the inner coat of the vessels which open into their different cavities. These have been termed the endocarde by Bouillaud to distinguish them from the serous coat of the pericardium on the outer surface of the heart. If we commence to trace the inner membrane of the right side from the entrance of the two cava?, we find that it is folded upon itself to form the Eustachian valve at the entrance of the inferior cava; it then passes upon the inner surface of the auricle, and at the opening of the coronary vein it is again folded upon itself to form the valve of the coronary vein. It passes through the auriculo-ventricular opening, ad- heres to the inner surface of the tendinous ring, and is there folded upon itself to assist in form- ing the tricuspid valve. It now proceeds upon the inner surface of the ventricle, and at the origin of the pulmonary artery it assists in forming the semilunar valves, and becomes con-