GLAND. 486 * Phil. Trans. 1833, p. 741. along the whole extent of the excretory ducts. It is, however, very remarkable that whilst those glands which arise from the alimentary canal present an immense variety in the ar- rangement of their secreting texture, the essen- tial glands of the genito-urinary apparatus, the kidney and the testicle, have a most uniform structure, consisting of serpentine tubes of the same diameter throughout their whole extent. The details into which I have thought it re- quisite to enter prove that the true secreting structure consists in every gland of nothing else than a vascular membrane, on the surface of which the glandular fluid is poured out; and consequently that in those complex organs, as the liver or kidney, in which the vascular se- Fig. 220. Peripheral ramification of the parotid du -t, with some of the vesicular terminations, magnified — 110.* Fig. 219. considered in the several articles on the individual glands, it is only necessary to state in this place that what are called indifferently lo- bules, glandular grains, vesicles, acini, &c. are in every instance composed simply of the secreting canals variously disposed and arranged creting membrane is, for the sake of conveni- ence, disposed in the form of extensively rami- fied tubes, it is most important to recollect that the glandular fluid is poured not only into the ccecal extremity or commencement of each tube, as is the commonly received opinion, but ak>ng the whole extent of the tube. For the establishment of this fact, certainly the most important in the history of the glands, we are principally indebted to Professor Muller. Excretory duct.—Although the essential seat of the glandular function is now ascertained, some difficulty exists in determining the actual extent of the secreting surface in the various organs; or in other words, at what precise point the mucous canals ceasing to secrete, become mere excretory passages.^ An attempt to decide this point is, however, necessary, because until this time the majority of anato- * Berres, 1. c. pt. 5, tab. ix. fig. 2. t I allude here of course to the peculiar secre- tions, as the bile, urine, milk, &c. and not to the secretion of mucus, which we know is poured out mists have signified by the term excretory duct, not only the canals which simply bear away the secreted fluid, but likewise those tubes which constitute the true secreting apparatus, and which, it is evident, are at the same time both secreting and excreting canals, as they not only secrete, but likewise carry to the larger and non-secreting ducts the fluids poured out by their parietes. In the simple sacculi or follicles, it is evi- dent that the secreting structure is co-equal with the extent of the bag itself, so that the little orifice becomes the excretory duct; in the tonsils, prostate, &c. there are several such orifices or ducts. But at what point does secretion cease in the compound glands ? Mr. Kiernan states,* that in the liver the secreting portion of the organ is confined to what he calls the lobular biliary plexuses, or to those tubes which are placed within the lobules; so that here the excretory apparatus is very com- plex, consisting of the interlobular tubes, those