ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HEART. 646 Can this redness be distinguished from that which is consequent upon inflammation ? It seems to me that there is no anutumical charac- ter by which the true nature of the discoloration can be proved. The anatomist must be guided in coming to a conclusion upon the question by concomitant circumstances, of which the time which has elapsed after death, the quan- tity and quality of the blood in the heart, and the state of the other organs or textures of the body, are the most important. If the examina- tion has been made soon after death, that is, within twenty-four hours, if the blood in the heart presents no undue predominance of co- louring matter, nor has undergone any decom- position, and if the other tissues retain their na- tural state, and show no unusual tendency to putrefaction, the redness may be inferred to be morbid and inflammatory; but this inference is confirmed with the utmost degree of certainty, if the redness is accompanied by an effusion of coagulable lymph or of pus, and by an unequi- vocal thickening or swelling of the endocardium itself; sometimes, also, as Bouillaud remarks, the adhesion of clots, resembling the buffy coat of blood, are among the anatomical signs of inflamed endocardium. The in- flamed endocardium is, according to Bouil- laud, more easily detached from the internal surface of the heart, owing in all probability to the subjacent cellular tissue having lost its force of cohesion, and become fragile. Lymph effused on the endocardium does not generally take the laminated form as in pericar- ditis, nor do we find it covering an extensive surface, as in that disease. Small patches of membranous lymph are sometimes met with here and there, either on the surface of the valves or over some part of one of the cavities; at other times it assumes a granular or warty form, or it projects in papilliform or conical or globular masses from the surface of the valve. Thus are formed the vegetations which are among the most frequent valvular diseases, and which offer the greatest impediments to the adequate action of the valves. When examined recently after their formation, they present all the characters of the albumino-fibiinous exuda- tions of serous membranes, their form being determined by the frequent changes of relation which the inflamed surface undergoes in the heart's action, as well as by the current of blood from the heart continually flowing over it. The further progress of inflammation of the endocardium induces thickening of the mem- brane or of the valves, organization of the effu- sed lymph, which thus becomes more firmly adherent to the surface on which it had arisen, and induration of the membrane from cartilagi- nous or calcareous deposits, which however are generally met with within the fold of membrane constituting the valves, and more intimately connected with the interposed fibrous than with the serous membrane. When inflammation of the folds of endocar- dium forming the valves runs its course with great rapidity, it may induce destruction of them to a greater or less extent. Softening, ulceration, and rupture of the affected valve are very speedily produced. " The ruptured and ulcerated portions," to borrow Dr. C. J. Wil- liams's description, " are found loaded with ragged, soft, fragile vegetations, more or less tinged with blood, and these are also some- times seen adhering to adjacent parts where the endocardium is entire. The remaining parts of the valves are much thickened and opaque yel- lowish white, with a pink hue; and pink patches are often seen in the aorta with atheromatous thickening." Sometimes a valve is perforated in its centre by ulceration, and the circumfe- rence of the perforation is surrounded by warty vegetations. It is well known that the endocardium of the left side is much more liable to disease than that of the right, whether as regards the valvu- lar portion of it or that which lines the interior of the heart. But the views of Bichat and others, who denied the occurrence of disease on the right side, have been abundantly refuted by modern observations. Chronic valvular diseases.—Chronic endocar- ditis affects the valves of the heart in such a manner as in all cases to occasion more or less obstacle to the flow of the blood from the ven- tricle or auricle. Sometimes, however, the disease is not of a kind to interfere with the valvular action and to permit regurgitation; but at other times the disease has gone so far in one or more of the valves as to prevent its con- tributing to the perfect closure of the orifice, and consequently to destroy the power of the valves to oppose regurgitation. Hence the subdivision proposed by Dr. Williams, for val- vular diseases, into those which more or less obstruct the current of the blood in its proper channel, or the obstructive, and those which permit it to pass in the reversed direction, or the regurgitant. Thickening of a valve, so as to prevent its complete apposition to the internal surface of the artery or of the ventricle, will oc- casion obstruction, the degree of which will depend on the degree of perfection of apposi- tion with which the valve may be applied to the neighbouring surface; on the other hand, the degree to which regurgitation is permitted will depend upon the degree of induration of the valve, and the want of extensibility which it manifests. Thickening of the edges of the valves is among their most common diseased states; the attached margin or base of the valve is also very frequently the seat of thickening, and in both these situations the fibrous tissue seems to be engaged principally in the disease. The inter- vening portion is generally affected as a conse- quence of the extension of the disease from these margins. In such cases the thickening arises from a deposit between the layers of the fold forming the valve; in other cases the thick- ening is produced by a deposit upon the surface of the valve. On the aortic valves this deposit, when on the ventricular surface, is apt to assume the form of two crescents corresponding in po- sition as well as form to the two crescentic por- tions of fibrous tissue within the fold of mem- brane by which the vnUe is formed. This fact