t Id. pi. xxxi. tig. 6. tebrata. It is, however, an interesting fact, as r INSECTA. vessel which we regard as connected with the circulatory system, as we shall hereafter show. As nerves of organic function, we have now to consider those which are especially given to the different internal organs, and not to the voluntary muscles. Having already considered the transverse nerves, which are distributed so 957 especially to the respiratory organs, as nerves of mixed character, those which we regard more especially under the above designation are the si/in pathetic and the vagus or visceral nerves. The sympathetic, or anterior lateral ganglia (Jig. 415, C), are situated two on each side of the oesophagus behind the brain, and anterior Fig. 415. Brain and nerves of tlie head and first segment of a pupa of Sphinx ligustri. A, brain; B, optic nerves ; C, anterior lateral or sympathetic ganglia; D, antcnnal nerves ; E, frontal ganglion of the recurrent or vagus nerve. (Newport, Phil. Trans.) to the great muscles of the oesophagus and pha- rynx. They are of considerable size, being each about one-third as large as one-half of the cerebrum, and they are connected with most of the other nerves in the head. Thus, besides their connexions {a) with the brain, one nerve passes forwards beneath the optic nerves, and joins with a minute filament from the nerve to the antennae, (g,) and also with one to the mandibles, while another passing across the oesophagus is united with the main trunk of the visceral or vagus nerve (e), as it passes along to the stomach, and another branch joins with the first set of transverse nerves (/<), while other filaments passing outwards are distributed to the muscles of the oesophagus and pharynx. This latter fact, which we have most distinctly ascertained in Meloe cicatricosus, a large species well adapted both for an examination of this and of the visceral nerve, is particularly inte- resting from the circumstance that, after the most careful examination, we could not find any other nerve given to those muscles (fig. 416, C). We have observed a similar distri- bution to the muscles of the oesophagus in Lu- canus, and also in the Sphinx, so that from their connexions we may justly conclude these gan- glia to constitute at least a portion of the true sympathetic system. From their relative situ- ation they appear to be analogous to the supe- rior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic in Ver- noticed by Burmeister,* that these ganglia ap- pear to be largest in some of those insects ire which the recurrent nerve which we have de- scribed as the vagus is least developed. Thus,, as shown by Muller, Brandt, and Burmeister, these ganglia of the sympathetic system have a large size in the Orthoptera, and, instead of being traceable scarcely beyond the region of the head, send off one or two branches which run along the sides of the oesophagus to a great distance, while the recurrent or vagus nerve, after uniting with these ganglia behind the brain, appears to terminate or be lost in the nerves that originate from them. In Gri/llus migratorius, Burmeister has shownf that after the recurrent nerve has formed a minute gan- glion jugt behind the brain, and united with the first of these sympathetic ganglia, it ap- pears to terminate, while the same ganglion sends off posteriorly two branches, which run along the upper surface of the oesophagus, where the external one forms a small ganglion, and that the second, or most external of these ante- rior lateral ganglia, also sends a large nerve backwards, at the side of the oesophagus, as far as the crop, where it forms a ganglion and sends off nerves, and at the hinder part of the crop a second ganglion, from which nerves are given to the coecal appendages of the alimen- * Op. cit. p. 288.