FACE. tures, is also furnished with its contractor or sphincter muscle, and with many dilators which radiate from it at various angles. All the muscles of the face are superficially situated, and most of them are subcutaneous. In the palpebral regions, or about the eye- lids on each side, are placed, 1. a constrictor, or the orbicularis palpebrarum, of which the corrugator supercilii is an associate; 2. the levator palpebral and the occipito-frontalis, which are dilators, and antagonists of the two former muscles. The orbicularis palpebrarum,(naso-pulpebral, Chauss.) is a flat oval muscle, situated im- mediately underneath the skin, to which it adheres, and covering the base of the orbit and the superficial surface of the eyelids; in the middle it presents a transverse aperture, which is the orifice of the palpebral, varying in size according to the individual, and giving apparently a greater or less magnitude to the globe itself, which, however, is of nearly uni- form dimensions in different persons. The orbicularis, like the other sphincter muscles, consists of concentric fibres, but it is peculiar in having a fixed tendon on one side, from which a great part of the fibres arise; this tendon of the orbicularis, or ligamentum pal- pebrae, which is situated horizontally at the inner corner of the eye, is about two and a half lines in length, and half a line in breadth; it arises from the anterior border of the lachry- mal groove in the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, and passing horizontally out- wards in front of the lachrymal sac, divides into a superior and an inferior slip, which are attached to the inner extremities of the corres- ponding eyelids. The tendon at first is flat- tened anteriorly and posteriorly, but afterwards becomes twisted so as to present horizontal surfaces. From its posterior part is detached a slip of fibres (the reflected tendon of the orbicularis), which proceeds backwards to- wards the os unguis, and forms the outer wall of the lachrymal canal. The orbicularis arises, 1. from the borders and surfaces of this tendon and from its reflected slip ; 2. from the internal angular process of the frontal bone and from the fronto- maxillary suture ; 3. from the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone ; and, 4. by short tendinous slips from the inner third of the lower border of the orbit. From these origins the upper and lower fibres of the muscle take a curved direction outwards, their concavity look- ing towards the aperture of the lids, and fol- lowing the course of the upper and lower borders of the orbit, which they overlap. They unite at the outer side; not, however, by a tendinous raphe or septum, as some have described, but simply by the mingling of their fibres. Each half (the upper and lower) of the orbicularis consists really of two sets of fibres; one, which covers the margins of the orbits, and forms the circumference of the muscles, is strong, tense, and of the usual reddish colour; it arises from the direct ten- don, and from the frontal or upper maxillary bone. These form the orbicularis properly so called. The other set, which is pale and thin, covers the lids and proceeds almost in a hori- zontal direction outwards from the palpebral bifurcation of the orbicular tendon : this forms the ciliary or palpebrales. These two sets of fibres, as we shall presently see, are distin- guished as much by their functions as by their appearance. Relations.—The superficial surface of that part of the muscle which covers the lids (the palpebrales) is connected to the skin by delicate loose cellular tissue entirely destitute of fat. The stronger fibres which form the outer part of the muscles are closely adherent to the integument by cellular tissue more densely woven, and presenting more or less fat. The posterior surface covers, above, the lower part of the frontalis and the corrugator supercilii, with whose fibres it is connected ; internally the corresponding part of the fibro- cartilages of the lids, the lachrymal sac, and the inner border of the orbit externally, the outer border of the orbit and part of the tem- poral fascia inferiorly, the upper part of the malar bone, the origins of the levator labii superioris proprius, the part of the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, and the inferior border of the orbit. At its circumference this muscle corresponds, by its upper half, to the frontal, which it slightly overlaps, and inter- nally to the border of the pyramidalis, with which it is connected; externally it is free. Below its border is free, covering the origin, and giving some fibres to the lesser zygomatic ; and internally it is separated from the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi by cellular tissue, in which runs the facial vein. The central fibres cover the palpebral fascia and the lids, which separate them from the conjunctiva. Action.—The action of this muscle resem- bles that of other sphincters, the curved fibres in contraction approaching the centre; but as in the orbicularis palpebrarum these fibres are fixed at the inner side, it follows that the skin to which the muscle is attached by its anterior surface is drawn towards the nose, and when the muscle is in strong action, becomes cor- rugated, presenting folds which converge to- wards the inner angle of the eye; above, where the effect of the muscle on the skin is most marked in consequence of its closer connec- tion with the integuments, the brow and the skin of the forehead are drawn down by it and its associate the corrugator; the lower fibres when in strong action, draw the cheeks upwards and inwards. Like the other sphinc- ters, also, this is a mixed muscle. Those fibres which may be supposed to be voluntary, are the larger and outer ones, which corres- pond to the border of the orbit, and are of a red colour. The involuntary fibres are those thin ones which cover the lids, are of a pale colour, like the muscles of organic life, and arise from the palpebral subdivisions of the horizontal tendon. They contract involuntarily while we are awake, in the action of winking, and during sleep in maintaining the lids closed; they also act under the will in closing the lids, particularly the upper. It appears then