ANIMAL HEAT. 667 the temperature of ten children born at the full time was 34°,7o c. (94°,5 F.); the tempera- ture in no case descending lower than 34° (94° F.)> and ranging between this and 35°,5 c. (96° F.). Let it be Observed that at the seventh month the membrana pupillaris no longer exists ; the infant has, therefore, at this epoch of its development, the essential charac- ters of warm-blooded animals capable of sup- porting a high temperature when that of the surrounding; atmosphere is mild. But if it were entering the world some considerable time before the disappearance of the pupillary mem- brane, it would be in a condition analogous to the Mammalia which are born with their eyes shut; it would no longer be in a condition to maintain an elevated temperature, and without doubt would lose heat precisely as they do without precautions to the contrary. When we take a general view of the first and second periods in the early life of warm-blooded animals, we find that they are under the influence of two general conditions relative to calorifica- tion ; conditions which, acting inversely, tend to compensate each other mutually; on the one hand, the celerity of the motions ; on the other, the imperfection of the nutrient and ner- vous functions. The celerity of the motions of circulation and respiration diminishes, whilst the development of the nutritive and nervous functions increases with age. These two con- ditions influencing the production of heat are, therefore, in an inverse ratio to one another. And according to the nature of these relations will the temperature vary. Were the opposite effects equal, there would be exact compensa- tion in the whole phases of the evolution, from the moment of birth to that of perfect adole- scence, and the temperature of the body would be the same at every period of life. But the progression in the celerity of the movements on the one hand and of corporeal development on the other, is unequal; and there is but a single epoch in the whole course of childhood when such an equality or balance exists, and at which consequently the temperature of the child is the same as that of the adult. Previous to this epoch, the nutritive and nervous func- tions are so imperfectly developed, that their influence, inimical to the production of heat, surpasses the favourable tendency to this end, which we have in the celerity of the motions of circulation and respiration. It follows that the temperature of the body is inferior at the pre- ceding limit or to that of the adult state ; with the progress of time, however, the child attains this limit, and then we have a new relation established. The evolution of the nutritive and nervous functions continues, and although it have not yet attained its ultimate term, the de- fect of heat which results from this is all but compensated by the celerity of Use motions, which is still sufficiently great, to surpass in a marked degree the celerity of the motions in the adult. The temperature at this period will, therefore, be above that of the adult. This pe- riod lasts for several years in childhood or youth ; but then comes a gradual retardation in the motions both of respiration and circula- tion, and with this a reduction of the tempera- ture to the standard of the adult. There are consequently four states of the temperature from birth up to adolescence inclu- sive. In the first period the temperature is at the minimum ; in the second, it attains the adult degree; this might be entitled the period of the mean temperature; in the third, the temperature exceeds that of the adult; finally, in the fourth, it sinks to the mean, that is, the temperature of the adult. There are, therefore, constitutions in the same class of animals which are more or less favour- able to the production of heat; for it is so among individuals that differ in age in the limits between the moment of birth and that at which adolescence is completed; and this leads us to new considerations. DIFFERENCES OF CONSTITUTION IN RELATION WITH THE PRODUCTION OF HEAT AMONG ANIMALS. Since the body and the functions are pro- gressively developed, and without interruption between the two grand periods named, there is in the course of this long interval as much dif- ference in the state of the constitution as (here are sensible degrees of development; a circum- stance that implies a long series of varieties. But these intimate differences are not mani- fested externally by corresponding states of temperature of body. For we have seen that this undergoes but four sensible variations in this respect, and that,of these four modifications, two were of like import. It is every way worthy of attention to observe that, at the point which separates the first from the second period of infancy, the temperature should be equal to that of the adult. It is difficult to imagine that this equality can exist under every variety of external cir- cumstance, when we see that the elements upon which it depends are so different. And this leads us to consider the production of heat under a new point of view. Under what cir- cumstances has this equality of temperature be- tween the infant and the adult been observed ? It was when the external temperature was mild or even warm. "Would the same thing have been observed had this been cold or severe ? It is evident that if the faculty to produce heat is the same at this period of infancy as it is in adult age, the heat of the body will always re- main the same, making abstraction of the diffe- rences that depend on those of simple corpo- real bulk. Thus, all things else being equal, a young animal at this epoch ought to cool to the same degree as an adult under the influence of external cold, if it have the same power of pro- ducing heat. Tf, however, it be inferior in its calorific powers, it will not be competent to maintain its temperature to the same degree as the adult, and it will fall under this limit in a proportion determined by the difference which exists in the faculty of producing heat. On making application of the principles which have been already announced, let us try if we cannot predict the effects. By reason of the inferiority in energy of the nervous system in