514 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HAND. first phalanx of the little finger on the back of its metacarpal bone. This patient was a female about thirty-five years of age ; the bone had been only a few hours luxated, and some inef- fectual attempts had been previously made to reduce it. The reduction was effected with some little difficulty by at first increasing the extension, and then by forcibly flexing the last phalanx. In this case the long extensor tendon of the little finger was displaced from its sheath and groove, and lay on the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone and luxated phalanx, and never afterwards could be maintained in its proper place. This accident is very easily re- cognized, yet it has been occasionally left un- reduced. It has been stated already that luxation of the first phalanx of the thumb forwards may occasionally happen, and we have also good authority for supposing that a similar luxation may occur to the phalanx of the index finger. These accidents, however, are very rare; the middle, ring, and little fingers have never been seen thus displaced; indeed, Boyer seems to think such an accident in these last, impossible from the nature of their articulation with their metacarpal bones. Luxation of the second, and third or distal phalanges.—The articulations of these pha- langes being only covered by the skin and the tendons of the flexor and extensor muscles, their luxations are also very easily recognized. In the luxation backwards, the only one which we have had occasion to observe, the luxated phalanx is turned to the side of extension, and forms with the phalanx above it an angle more or less open, \\hen it is the second phalanx which is luxated, the third is flexed by the elongation of the tendon of the deep flexor, and it is impossible to extend it or flex the second. The reduction of these luxations is generally easy if time be not allowed to elapse between the occurrence of the luxation and the period of attempting its reduction. II. DISEASED CONDITIONS. Caries and necrosis occasionally affect the bones of the hand, but the complete descrip- tions of these diseases, which have been else- where given in this work,* render superfluous here any special observations on these morbid actions when they manifest themselves in the region of the hand. The bones of the meta- carpus and phalanges are very frequently de- formed by a disease which (although it cannot be said to be exclusively observed in these bones) produces on the hand and fingers ap- pearances too remarkable to be left unnoticed in this place. The disease which we wish to describe as we have seen it in the bones of the hand would be by some designated as exostosis,! by others as benign osteo-sarcoma, and others J would be * See Bone, morbid anatomy. f See Scarpa, De Anatomia et Pathologia ossinm, cum tabulis aeneis, tab. \i.fig. 1, Exostosis ossiuin plerorumque manus dexterae. X Boyer, Maladies Chirurgicales, vol. iii. p. 579. disposed to preserve the somewhat objection- able but ancient name of spina ventosa. The metacarpal bones and the phalanges of the fingers are the usual seat of this disease, and in general many of them are simulta- neously engaged in it; the shafts of the affected bones are usually swelled out by the disease into tumours somewhat of a globular form, the articular extremities of the bones remaining perfectly free. It is by no means unusual to see the first and second phalanx of a finger forming two distinct globular swellings, while the last or distal phalanx is perfectly free from enlargement. It has been already mentioned that these tumours, when viewed externally, seem to have a spheroidal form; but when the integuments of the bony shell which incloses the tumours are removed, we discover on their palmar as- pects the flexor tendons buried in deep grooves. This is of course best seen when the disease has existed long, and the tumours have attained a considerable size. If we have an opportunity of examining ana- tomically the phalanges while the disease is yet in its early stage, we shall find reason to conclude that the morbid process had com- menced deep in the interior of the bone, and that the tumour proceeding outwardly presented itself first on that aspect of the phalanx, or me- tacarpal bone, where there was the least resist- ance opposed to it; hence we usually notice these tumours, when small, shewing themselves most on the dorsal aspect of these bones. As the disease increases they swell out laterally, and the whole circumference of the phalanx would be equally expanded were it not for the support given on the side of flexion by the flexor tendons and their strong fibrous sheaths. The integuments of these tumours preserve their natural sensibility, and are at first freely move- able over them ; but as the swellings gradually increase and undergo a species of softening in certain points, the integuments become adhe- rent at these points, and circular openings are formed in them which correspond to similar circular apertures in the shell of the bone, and through which the bony cysts discharge their contents; these swellings of the bones of the hand, as far as we know, never degenerate into any disease of a malignant nature; but when they attain a considerable size, and are exca- vated by these cysts, and have large fistulous orifices, the irritation they produce and the discharge cause some febrile excitement of the constitution, and amputation may become ne- cessary. The following very remarkable case clearly proves the non-malignant nature of this disease; the history of it will serve well to illus- trate the natural progress of this form of dis- sease in the hand. A countryman of rather a delicate appear- ance, a<jed twenty-four years, was admitted into Jervis-street Hospital, July 22,1828, under the care of Dr. O'Beirne. This man had an enormous enlargement of the left hand, which arose from a tumour, the principal seat of which was in the first and second phalanges of the middle finger, but the ring and index finger