942 INSECTA. recti (c, c) on the upper svirface, and the corres- ponding ones on the ventral, which are now chiefly subservient to the motions of the organs of generation. From the number and complexity of the muscles in these " miniatures of creation"'— insects-—we feel less surprised at the agility of their movements and the variety of motions which many of them perform, and less asto- nishment at the wonderful strength which many species possess. But still there are instances of some of them possessing a degree of power that is almost incredible. The great stag-beetle, Lucunus cervus, which tears off the bark from the roots and branches of trees, has even been known to gnaw a hole an inch in diameter through the side of an iron canister in which it was confined, and on which the traces of its mandible were distinctly visible, as proved by Mr. Stephens, who exhibited the canister at one of the meetings of the Entomological So- ciety,"* an indication of an amount of strength possessed by these insects of which before we could have had no conception. But hardly Jess surprising is the strength possessed by Geotrupes stercorarius, which can support un- injured, and even elevate an immense weight, and make its way beneath almost any amount of pressure. In order to ascertain the amount of strength possessed by this insect, we have made a few experiments from which it appears that it is able to sustain and escape from beneath a pressure of from twenty to thirty ounces, a prodigious weight when it is remem- bered that the insect itself does not weigh even so many grains. But this amount of strength is not confined to the short thick-limbed beetles. We once fastened a small Carabus ( ?), weighing only three grams and a half, by means of a silken thread to a small piece of paper, upon which the weight to be moved was placed. At a distance of ten inches from its load the insect was able to drag after it, up an inclined plane of twenty-five degrees, very nearly eighty- five grains. But when placed on a plane of five degrees it drew after it one hundred and twenty-five grains exclusive of the friction to be overcome in moving its load. The motions of the insect in walking as in fiying are dependenl in the perfect individual entirely upon the thoracic segments, but in the larva chiefly upon the abdominal. Although the number of legs in the former is always six, and in the latter sometimes so many as twenty- two, progression is simple and easy. Midler states f that on watching insects that move slowly he has distinctly perceived that three legs are always moved at one time, being advanced and put to the ground while the other three propel the body forwards. In perfect insects those moved simultaneously are the fore and hind feet on one side and the intermediate foot on the opposite, and afterwards the fore and hind feet on that side and the middle one on the other, so that, he remarks, in two steps the * Transact. Ent. Soc. Lond., vol. ii. Journal of Proceedings, p. xxii. i Elements of Physiology, p. 970. (Transl.) whole of the legs are in motion. A similar uniformity of motion takes place in the larva, although the whole anterior part of the body is elevated and carried forwards at regular dis- tances, the steps of the insect being almost entirely performed by the false or abdominal legs. In fligh t the motions depend upon the meso- and meta-thoracic segments conjointly, or en- tirely upon the former. The sternal, episternal, and epimeral pieces, freely articulated together, correspond in function with the sternum, the ribs, and the clavicles of birds.* The thorax is expanded and contracted at each motion of the wings, as in birds and other animals, and becomes fixed at each increased effort as a fulcrum or point of resistance upon which the great muscles of the wings are to act, thus identifying this part of the body in function as in structure with that of other animals. The Nervous System.—Comparative exami- nations of the nervous system in Articulata, and the changes which it undergoes, more es- pecially in Insects, as well as the existence in it of parts which we regard as analogous to the motor and sensitive portions of the spinal cord in vertebrata, have invested this division of our subject with more than a common amount of interest. It has been shewn in a former part of this work,f that in Articulata the most rudimentary condition of the nervous system exists in the form of two longitudinal cords, extended along the median line of the under surface of the body, parallel with each other, and nearly close together, excepting at their anterior part, where they diverge, and pass upwards, to embrace be- tween them the commencement of the alimen- tary canal. In a more advanced stage of or- ganization each of these cords has a series of enlargements or ganglia in its course, situated at certain distances apart, and varying in num- ber according to the number of segments into which the body of the animal is divided. These enlargements correspond precisely in si- tuation in both cords, so that the nervous sys- tem in this condition may be described simply as composed of two knotted, parallel cords. The enlargements in one cord are either placed close to the corresponding ones in the other, or are separated only by a very slight interspace. This is the form in which the nervous system exists, as we have seen, in the Talitrus,J in which the ganglia are approximated together, but are still distinct from each other, and form a double series of enlargements, united by in- tervening cords. This is also the condition in which the nervous system exists in its most ru- dimentary state in the larva of hexapodous insects. But these parallel cords, which toge- ther form the analogue of the cerebro-spinal system of vertebrata, and correspond one to each side of the body, are not in themselves simple structures, each one being composed of * Bennet on the anatomy of the thorax in insects, and its function during flight, Zoological Journal, vol. i. p. 394. t Art. Crustacea, Entozoa, Annelida. t Crustacea, vol i. p. 763, fig. 391.