FCETUS. 330 foetal motion is a matter of common observa- tion, for, while some women suffer much and almost constant annoyance from the excessive restlessness of the child, others are hardly con- scious of its movements.* That this is not altogether dependent on a real difference in the quality of the foetal motions, but in a great degree the result of the greater or less nervous irritability of the mother's system, must be ac- knowledged ; but, on the other hand, I think we can hardly doubt that some of those pa- roxysms of excessive turbulence are true con- vulsions, and that the child sometimes thus dies before birth, either under their influence or by so entangling the cord as to compress it, and put an end to the circulation through it. The writer feels persuaded that he has met with such cases, and he has read of others in which, after a violent convulsive motion of this kind, which had nearly caused the mother to faint, all motion of the child has ceased to be felt, and, after the lapse of a few days, delivery has taken place, and the dead-born child has exhibited appearances perfectly corresponding with the belief of its having died at the time of the convulsive struggle. In October 1834 the writer attended a very nervous lady with her second child, which, after about two hours of easy labour, was born completely dead, al- though full-sized and well thriven; the cord was twisted round the neck and also round one of the arms. She told me that three days before she was suddenly startled by the exces- sive motion of the child "as if it was struggling in convulsions;" this continued for a minute or two, and was so violent and distressing as to force her to exclaim, and nearly to produce fainting; from that moment she never felt the child move.f Effects of mental impressions on the mother. —In the enumeration of the different causes or sources of abnormal alterations in the foetus we should not omit to include powerful im- pressions made on the mind or nervous system of the mother; for although the writer would be very far from wishing to advocate or coun- tenance either the indiscriminate doctrine of effects produced by the mother's imagination, or the ridiculously absurd fabrications by which it has been attempted to maintain it, he cannot help thinking it quite consistent with reason and the present state of our knowledge, to be- lieve that such impressions may injuriously affect the foetus, and it will at least be always safe and prudent to act on such a presump- tion ; for " although," to use the words of Morgagni,f " I do not approve these things, * See some observations on this subject in the writer's Exposition of the Signs of Pregnancy, chapter v. p. 87. t See Desormeaux, Diet. Ide Med. torn. xv. p. 398. Duges, Diet. <le Med. et de Chir. Pra- tique, torn. viii. p. 295. A slight spasmodic sen- sation communicated from the child to the mo- ther, and sometimes repeated several times at pretty regular intervals, like the efforts of hiccup, has been by some attributed to the existence of that affection in the child; but with what degree of reason the writer is not prepared to venture an opinion. } Epist. xlviii. art. 54. (that is, the absurd stories,) there are cases wherein it seems to me to be very hard to depart totally and altogether from that opinion which is common to the greatest men."* In a case related by this celebrated writer, a mental impression was quickly followed by the death of the child;! and if such an influence can thus destroy its life, it is surely not unreasonable to admit that it may have the power of modifying organization.]; An instance of this kind oc- curred under my own observation about three years ago, so remarkable that I trust I shall be excused if I think it presents something more than a mere though striking coincidence. A lady, pregnant for the first time, to whom I recommended frequent exercise in the open air, declined going out as often as was thought necessary, assigning as her reason, that she was afraid of seeing a man whose appearance had greatly shocked and disgusted her; he used to crawl along the flag-way on his hands and knees, with his feet turned up behind him, which latter were malformed and imperfect, appearing as if they had been cut off at the instep, and he exhibited them thus and unco- vered in order to excite commiseration. I af- terwards attended this lady in her lying-in, and her child, which was born a month before its time, and lived but a few minutes, although in every other respect perfect, had the feet mal- formed and defective precisely in the same way as those of the cripple who had alarmed her, and whom I had often seen. Now here was an obvious and recognized object making a pow- erful impression of a disagreeable kind, com- plained of at the time, and followed by an effect in perfect correspondence with the pre- vious cause, there being between the two a similarity so perfect that, with the distinguished author above referred to, I " will not easily suppose that chance could have been so inge- nious, if I may be allowed to speak thus, and so exact an imitator ;"§ and though I must ac- knowledge in the words of Van Swieten " that I do not understand the connexion of the cause acting upon the mother with the effect observed in the foetus," || I also agree with him, that it must not therefore be denied that such a thing has really happened. For some other observa- tions on this subject the writer begs to refer to a work^f of his recently published. Effects of inflammation, SfC.—The fcetus in utero, even at early periods of its developement, is liable to a large number of organic altera- tions, and even to lose its life, in consequence of inflammation attacking the uterus of the mother, the foetal appendages, or its own sys- tem. From such causes arise a variety of pa- * He refers to Boerhaave, Praelect. ad Instit. § 694, and to Van Swieten. t Epist. xlviii. art. 18. } A celebrated writer of the present day, Es- quirol, is led from observation and experience to refer one of the species of congenital predisposi- tion to insanity, to the impression of terror on the mind of the mother while pregnant. § Epist. xlviii. art. 54. Vide epist. lxvii. art. 16. || Commentaries, sect. 1075. % An Exposition of the Signs and Symptoms of Pregnancy, chap. i. pp. 14 et seq.