517 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HAND. after these operations. Indeed, we feel per- suaded that, in some cases of spina ventosa, (fig. 229) the tumour may be cut off from a finger or from a me- Fig. 229. tacarpal bone, and that although the wound may for a while throw up cartilaginous gra- nulations, still, under proper treatment, the ulcer of the bone will be got to heal kindly. Abnormalconditions of the fingers the re- sult of accidents and morbid affect ions of one or more of their consti- tuent structures.—We occasionally find that the voluntary power of flexing orextendingthe joints of the fingers is lost. This loss of power may arise from a great variety of causes;—anchylosis of a joint from acute or chronic inflammation; the loss of an ex- tensor or flexor tendon from a similar cause, or from a wound; congenital malformation of the brain; disease or accident affecting this organ, the spinal marrow, or the nerves con- nected with the movements of the upper extre- mity; any of these may at times be the source of this loss of the voluntary power over the fingers. Under these circumstances, although there may be but little external deformity, sometimes the fingers cannot be flexed; more frequently they cannot be voluntarily extended. An abnormal condition of the fingers, shewing itself in some distortion of these organs, may be traced to causes affecting—1, the skin; 2, the fascia; 3, the theca of the tendons; 4, the tendon itself; and .5, the bone. If a burn pe- netrate the skin on the palmar surface of the hand, a dense cicatrix will be formed; and much exertion will be necessary, on the part of the surgeon, to oppose successfully the gradual con- traction of the " tissue of the cicatrix." Should contraction take place, notwithstanding these efforts, the functions of the hand will be im- paired, and much deformity will remain. A burn on the back of the hand may be followed by analogous effects. There is a peculiar form of contraction of the fingers, which Boyer seems to ascribe (we believe erroneously) to a shortening of the ten- dons. Adopting the language of the ancients, he denominates the affection "crispatura tendi- num." This contraction of the fingers is never seen in very young persons. Most of those we have known affected by it were adults, who had been for a long time compelled to make laborious use of their hands. The disease will be ordinarily found to commence in a contrac- tion of the little finger; the ring finger is next engaged, and then the middle finger. From day to day the fingers become more contracted, and the power of extending them is lost. When one hand is thus affected, it usually happens that the other soon becomes equally engaged. It is remarkable that neither the indicator nor the thumb have ever been seen affected with this disease. When we examine the fingers the subjects of this species of contraction (fig. 230), we find that the first phalanx is moveable on the meta- carpal bone, and is flexed at an angle more or less approaching to a right angle. We can flex it a little more towards the palm; but to extend it so as to efface the angle is impossible; "a weight," says Dupuytren, "of 150lbs. will not bring the finger into a straight line with its me- tacarpal bone." Boyer says, "our efforts to extend the fingers are resisted to such a degree, that if we continued them they would break before we could force them to yield." Contraction of the Jin yers from disease of the palmar fascia. This description, however, applies only to the metacarpal joint of the first phalanx, for the last phalanges of each affected finger, though move- able, habitually remain perfectly straight. In these cases the integuments of the affected palm and the subjacent fascia seem to be more than naturally thick and consolidated, and we observe the lowest of the natural cutaneous lines of the palm thrown into a very deep crescentic fold, the concavity of which looks towards the fingers, and the convexity towards the wrist joint. We also invariably notice in these cases a rounded projecting chord which passes downwards from the middle of the palm of the hand to the basis of the first phalanx of the contracted finger. This chord feels hard, and is rendered more tense and salient whenever we make an effort to straighten the affected finger. When in the living subject we examine care- fully the palmar fascia, and explore, as far as we can, its connexion above with the tendon of the pal maris lorigus, and below, follow the pro- longations it sends to the lateral aspect of the contracted fingers, we find them all continuous; in a word, when we press upon the tendon of thepalmaris longus, we maketensethetendinous digitations above-mentioned. The continuity of all these fibrous structures is thus evident in