382 GASTEROPODA. ciferous membrane. The colouring matter becomes thus incorporated at definite points, with the cement by which the shell is extended, and is arranged in various manners according to the position of the secreting organs which furnish it. Another peculiarity which distin- guishes external shells is that their outer sur- face is often invested with a membranous layer, called the epidermis, which having been re- garded by some authors as a part of the true integument of the body, has given rise to the supposition that all shells being placed between two layers of the skin were in fact internal, the difference between the one and the other con- sisting merely in the extent of development. In support of this opinion reference has been made to the great thickness of this epidermic coat, which not unfrequently is such as to give to the surface of the shell a felted or pilous ap- pearance ; but if such an idea were correct, it is evident that the epidermis must be formed prior to the deposit of calcareous matter be- neath it, which observation has disproved, in- asmuch as those shells in which the epidermic covering is most dense and shaggy are found whilst in ovo to be without such an investment. The so-called epidermis, therefore, whatever may be the aspect which it presents, whether it be, as is usually the case, a brittle lamella en- crusting the shell, or a flocculent and pilous covering, is evidently inorganic, being merely a crust of inspissated mucus, originally secreted with the calcareous particles, and forming when dry a layer encrusting the surface of the shell. There is yet another structure common to shells of this class, of which it remains to speak, namely, the enamel or pearl, which lines such por- tions of them as are immediately in contact with the body of the animal; this polished material may be likened to the glazing of an earthen- ware vessel, and is a varnish produced from the general surface of the mantle, by some mo- dification of its secretion the nature of which is unknown, and spread in successive coatings over the more coarse calcareous matter, where- ever such a polish becomes needful. Having thus briefly described the origin of the different parts of a shell in the simple form which we have chosen as an example, we shall now proceed to examine the structure and mode of growth in others of a more complicated aspect. The majority of the Gasteropoda are furnished with a shell which has been denominated spiri- valve. Let the reader imagine the shell of the Patella to be lengthened into a long cone, which, instead of preserving its symmetrical form, is twisted around a central axis, and he will imme- diately understand the general arrangement of the parts in shells of this description. The cause of such an arrangement is owing to the shape of the body of the animal inhabiting the shell, which, as it grows, principally enlarges its shell in one direction, thus of course making it form a spire modified in shape according to the de- gree in which each successive turn surpasses in bulk that which preceded it. The axis around which the spire revolves is called the columella, and the mode of revolution around this centre gives rise to endless diversity in the external form. In the spirivalve-shelled Gasteropoda, as in those last described, we find a difference in structure between that part of the mantle which envelopes the viscera, and is always concealed within the cavity of the shell, and the more vascular portion placed around its aperture : the former is thin and membranous, its office being merely that of thickening the shell by the deposition of successive calcareous strata applied to its inner side, and of producing the pearly lining which smooths and polishes the interior ; the latter part of the mantle is thick, spongy, and coloured, secreting largely the cal- careous particles with which the progressive amplification of the shell is effected : this por- tion (fig. 179, c,) from its thickness, and the Fig. 179. manner in which it usually surrounds the en- trance to the shell, is generally termed the col- lar. In such species as inhabit coloured shells we may observe upon the surface of the collar (fig. 179, d,) patches of different colours corres- ponding in tint with the various hues seen upon the exterior. These spots supply the pigment, which being mixed up with the earthy cement serving for the enlargement of the shell stains it with a corresponding tint. In many instances, as in the figure, the colours are continually secreted by the dark spaces, d, causing the painted bands which they produce to wind un- interruptedly in the direction of the convolu- tions of the spire, and they may be seen gra- dually to increase in breadth as the size of the animal enlarges : but more frequently it happens that the colouring matter is only furnished at stated periods, and in such cases of course the shell will be marked with spots, the intervals be- tween which will be regulated by the frequency of the supply. It will be seen that by a combina- tion of these circumstances it is easy to explain how every variety of marking may be produced. | The most conspicuous exception to the gene- ral process by which shells are painted, is met with in the porcellaneous Couries (Cyprcea), which at various periods of their growth could scarcely be recognised as belonging to the same genus. In the young animal the enlargement of the shell is effected in the ordinary manner, and its colours are supplied from the surface of the collar: in the mature state, however, these shells are coloured in a very different manner, and acquire at the same time a great increase of thickness; this is effected by the enormous de- velopment of the alae of the mantle, which in the full-grown animal become so much ex- tended, that when the creature is in motion they are laid over the external surface of the shell so as entirely to conceal it. These alae contain patches of pigment which secrete colours en- tirely different from those contained in the collar, and from their whole surface exudes a