ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 795 forations the writer has seen in different mu- seums a great variety: in many instances the opening is small, in others of sufficient size to admit easily the head of the femur. These cases are in the beginning obscure, and when abscesses form, they are concealed within the cavity of the pelvis. Anatomical characters.—'When opportuni- ties have occurred of examining the interior of the hip-joint in those who have died of other complaints, this articulation being, at the time of death, in the early stages of the chronic dis- ease we are now considering, the adipose cellular mass which occupies the fundus of the acetabulum, the cellular structure which con- nects the fibres of the inter-articular ligament, the subsynovial cellular tissue which surrounds the corona of the head of the femur, as well as the interior of the bones themselves, have been found to wear an unusually red appearance from increased vascularity. The cartilage has been found softened, to have lost its usual lustre, to be slightly elevated, and too easily torn from the subjacent bone; in some cases thinned, in others detached in flaps; in some it has presented a corroded appearance, and coinciding with these changes purulent matter has been found in the interior of the joint, the capsular ligament thickened, and the lymphatic glands in the groin enlarged. In the anatomi- cal examination of those who have died in the advanced stages of the scrofulous disease of the hip, if the patient have not arrived at the age of puberty, we find that very frequently the original portions of the os innoirnnatum are separated from each other for several lines, that the epiphysis of the head of the femur is com- pletely detached from the shaft of this bone; the greater and lesser trochanters are sometimes in very young subjects removed by absorption, and evidence of devastating caries is found in the bottom of the acetabulum. (Fig. 311.) In some cases the head of the bone has been found dislocated on the dorsum ilii, previous to which occurrence all the ligaments have been destroyed, the acetabulum has the superior and posterior part of its brim removed by caries, and the bone thus abandoned to the action of the muscles takes the position it ordinarily does in the common luxation upwards and backwards on the dorsum ilii. This complete dislocation is not so common an occurrence as generally imagined; there are, however, some specimens of it preserved in the museum of the College of Surgeons in Dublin. In one pre- paration, the cartilage of the head of the femur is perfect, the round ligament is gone ; the fur- ther ascent of the head of the bone on the dor- sum ilii seems principally restrained by the ob- turator muscles (fig. 314). The interesting circumstance in the preparation to be noticed is, that the acetabulum is occupied to the level of its brim with a very dense atheromatous matter or yellowish green lymph, apparently an uncganized substance resembling what we see contained in crude scrofulous tubercles : what remained of the capsular ligament around the neck of the femur has been cut crucially, and the everted edges of the flaps shew the thick- Fig. 314. ness of this ligament, increased to four or five lines, and caused by the interstitial deposition of something like atheromatous matter. We have in the foregoing pages alluded to the different directions in which the head of the femur has been found dislocated in the third or fourth stage of this disease, and should here state the anatomical characters of each luxation, but we have not facts to guide us in the de- scription. When a section is made of the bones enter- ing into the composition of the hip-joint, when the patient has died of this disease in an ad- vanced stage, they will be found to be softened in the interior, and to contain a fatty or a yel- lowish cheese-like matter in their cells ; when opportunities have occurred for examination in an earlier stage of this scrofulous caries, these organs have been generally found preternatu- rally red and vascular, (as before stated,) with a deficient proportion of earthy matter, admit- ting not only of being cut with a knife without turning its edge, but yielding and being crushed under very slight pressure. A modern au- thor,* after quoting the authority of Lloyd on scrofula as proof of the truth of some of the foregoing observations, adds his own opinion, " that in simple inflammation, uninfluenced by the scrofulous diathesis, particularly when it becomes of a chronic character, bone is secreted in abundance, but that the striking feature in this kind of inflammation is, the absence of all secretion or deposit of bone." With the latter doctrine we cannot at all agree, and must conclude we do not rightly apprehend the * Coulson on the Diseases of the Hip-joint, Load. 1837, 4to. p. 39.