542 ORGAN OF HEARING. the terminations of the cochlear nerve is also applicable here. The filaments of the nerves of the common sinus and saccule expand in a fan-like manner on their walls, and having pe- netrated them, are resolved into a nervous layer like the retina, situated on the inner surface of the walls of those cavities. This nervous layer is, in the human ear, pervaded by extremely minute transparent fibres. In the rabbit I have distinctly seen, with a doublet magnifying 150 diameters, a fibrous or tubular structure similar to that of the retina first discovered by Ehren- berg. As regards the entrance of the nerves of the ampullae, Steifensand* gives a similar but more detailed account than Breschet, He says, the nerve, after having embraced in a forked man- ner about a third of the circumference of the ampulla, enters the wall of it. Resolving itself now into infinitely fine fila- ments, the nerve penetrates the septum which lies quite close to the opening in the common sinus, and which resembles a semilunar emi- nence projecting into the interior. It now covers the surface of the septum and a circum- scribed portion of the adjacent inner surface of the wall of the ampulla with an extremely deli- cate nervous pulp. The two ends of the semi- lunar septum, gradually flattening and spread- Fig. 242. Common sinus, together with the ampullee and semi - circular tubes, and the entrance of the nerves into them. ( From Steifensand.) Fig. 243. The ampullee of the superior and horizontal semi- circular tubes, with a part of the common sinus. The fan-like expansion of the nervous fibrils on the latter is seen, and also the fork-like expansion of the nerves on the outer surface of the ampullee. Magnified, ( From Steifensand.) * Miiller's Archiv. fur Anatomie, Physiologie, und wissenschaftliche Medecin, 1835. Heft. ii. s. 174 and 184. ing out, lose themselves in the wall of the am pulla. Fig. 244. Fig. 246. Fig. 245. n Fig. 244, (from Steifensand.) The ampulla opened in order to exhibit the septum. Fig. 245, (from Steifensand.) The fork-like ter- mination of the nerve of the ampulla und the semilunar septum, having the appearance of pure nervous sub- stance. Fig. 246, (also from Steifensand.J The expan- sion of the nervous pulp over the septum. Bloodvessels of' the labyrinth.—The prin- cipal artery of the labyrinth is the arteria auditiva interior. It is a branch of the basi- lar. It enters the internal auditory meatus along with the nerve of the seventh pair, and at the bottom of it divides into two branches, the cochlear and vestibular arteries, which enter the labyrinth with the corresponding nervous filaments. The cochlear artery, arteria cochlea, divides into a number of branches which enter the cochlea by the spiral tract of holes; one in par- ticular, arteria centralis modioli, passes through the central canal of the axis as far as the apex of the cochlea. The vessels of the walls of the cochlea are more numerous in the scala vestibuli than in the scala tympani. The arterial branches on the spiral lamina anastomose with each other at the outer margin of the osseous zone. From the convexity of the anastomotic arches nume- rous small arteries arise and run parallel as far as the outer margin of the middle zone, where they again anastomose, forming loops infinitely smaller, from the convexity of which capillary vessels run. These capillary vessels terminate in a sinus of a venous nature, lodged in the substance of the outer margin of the spiral lamina. The vestibular artery, arteria vestibuli, sup- plies the vestibule and semicircular canals to- gether with their contents, the saccule, common sinus, ampulla?, and semicircular tubes, and sends a branch along the surface of the spiral lamina corresponding to the vestibular scala. The stylo-mastoid artery, a branch of the poste- rior auricular, sends a twig to the external semicircular canal. The occipital artery also frequently sends twigs to the labyrinth. The bloodvessels form a beautiful plexus on the ampullae, and considerable trunks run along the whole length of the semicircular tubes, sup- ported on their surface by a delicate cellular tissue, which forms the vehicle for the passage of the small lateral branches given off to the walls of the tubes.