EYE. L97 tliose from the crystalline into the vitreous humour, the indices of refraction of the sepa- rating surface of these humours will be, from the aqueous humour to the outer coat of the crystalline 1.0466, from the aqueous humour to the crystalline, using the mean index, 1.0353, from the vitreous to the outer coat of the cry- stalline 1.0445, from the vitreous to the crystal- line, using the mean index, 1.0332." Dr. Young says, " On the whole it is probable that the refractive power of the centre of the human crystalline, in its living state, is to that of water nearly as 18 to 7; that the water im- bibed after death reduces it to the ratio of 21 to 20; but that on account of the unequable den- sity, its effect in the eye is equivalent to a refraction of 14 to 13 for its whole size." Respecting the chemical composition of the lens, Berzelius observes, that " the liquid in its cells is more concentrated than any other in the body. It is completely diaphanous and colourless, holding in solution a particular animal matter belonging evidently to the class of albuminous substances, but differing from fibrine in not coagulating spontaneously, and from albumen, inasmuch as the concentrated solution, instead of becoming a coherent mass on the application of heat, becomes granulated exactly as the colouring matter of the blood when coagulated, from which it only differs in the absence of colour. All those chemical properties are the same as those of the co- louring matter of the blood. The following are the principles of which the lens is com- posed : peculiar coagulable albuminous matter 35.9, alcoholic extract with salts 2.4, watery extract with traces of salts 1.3, membrane form- ing the cells 2.4, water 58.0. From the preceding observations it might reasonably be supposed that the lens is com- posed of a homogeneous material, such as al- bumen or gelatine, more consolidated in the centre than at the circumference; but this is not the case; on the contrary, it exhibits as much of elaborate organization as any other structure in the animal economy. It consists of an outer case or capsule, so totally different from the solid body contained within it, that they must be separately investigated and de- scribed. The body of the lens, it has been already stated, consists of certain saline and animal ingredients combined with more than their weight of water, and when perfectly transparent presents the appearance of a tena- cious unorganized mass; but when rendered opaque by disease, loss of vitality, heat, or im- mersion in certain fluids, its intimate structure becomes visible. If the lens with the capsule attached to the hyaloid membrane be removed from the eye and placed in water, the following day it is found slightly opaque or opaline, and split into several portions by fissures extending from the centre to the circumference, as seen in fig. 118. This appearance is rendered still more obvious by immersion in spirit, or the addition of a few drops of acid to the water. If a lens thus circumstanced be al- lowed to remain some days in water, it con- tinues to expand and unfold itself, and if delicately touched and opened by the point of a needle, and carefully transferred to spirit, and as it hardens is still more unravelled by dissection, it ultimately presents a remarkable fibrous or tufted appearance, as represented in the figure below, drawn by me some years ago from a preparation of the lens of a fish thus treated (the Lophius piscatorius). The three annexed figures represent the structure of the lens above alluded to: A is the human crystal- line in its natural state; B, the same split up into its component plates ; and C, unravelled in the fish. Fig. 118. C This very remarkable structure of the body of the lens appears to have been first accu- rately described by Leeuwenhoek, subse- quently by Dr. Young, and still more recently by Sir David Brewster. Leeuwenhoek says, " It may be compared to a small globe or sphere, made up of thin pieces of paper laid one on another, and supposing each paper to be composed of particles or lines placed some- what in the position of the meridian lines on a globe, extending from one pole to the other." Again he says, " With regard to the before- mentioned scales or coats, I found them so exceedingly thin, that, measuring them by my eye, I must say that there were more than two thousand of them lying one upon another." " And, lastly, I saw that eacjj^of these coats or scales was formed of filaments or threads placed in regular order, side by side, each coat being the thickness of one such filament." The peculiar arrangement of these fibres he describes as follows : " Hence we may collect how ex- cessively thin these filaments are; and we shall be struck with admiration in viewing the won- derful manner they take their course, not in a regular circle round the ball of the crystalline humour, as I first thought, but by three dif- ferent circuits proceeding from the point L, which point I will call their axis or centre. They do not on the other side of the sphere approach each other in a centre like this at L, but return in a short or sudden turn or bend, where they are the shortest, so that the filaments of which each coat is composed have not in reality any termination or end. To explain this more particularly, the shortest filaments, M K, H N, and O F, which fill the space on the other side of the sphere, constitute a kind of axis or centre, similar to this at L, so that the fila- ments M K, having gone their extent, and filled up the space on the other side, in like manner as is here shewn by the lines ELI, return back and become the shortest filaments H N. These filaments H N, passing on the other side