969 INSECTA. Sommeri, and as seen by ourselves in Callidiwn luridum. In Calandra, which in external ap- pearance is scarcely more perfect than the apodal larva of Hymenoptera, the alimentary canal (jig. 427) approaches much in form, Fig. 427. size, and complication of its parts to that of the perfect insect. It commences behind the pharynx in a very short pear-shaped oesopha- gus (II), which opens by a valve into a dilated bag-shaped crop (I), analogous probably to the first stomach of the larva of Ccuospma. This is continuous by a narrowed passage with the proper digestive cavity, around the middle part of which (K) are developed many conical glan- dular papillae or gastric vessels, that do not appear to have been noticed in the larva of Culusoma, which instead of subsisting upon hard vegetable substances like these Curculio- nidic, preys upon the soft bodies of living cater- pillars, and consequently does not require for the digestion of its soft animal food and juices so complicated a structure as those which de- vour large quantities of crude vegetable matter, as is the habit of the Lamellicornes, or the hard and less easily solvent woody fibre or coverings of insects devoured by the Calandra or the perfect Carabida;. At the posterior extremity of the digestive stomach in this larva are in- serted, as before seen, the biliary vessels, not singly around the sides of the canal, but by the union of four of these tubes in a common duct. This peculiarity is remarkable, as it occurs in some species in the perfect in- sect. Besides these vessels there are two others somewhat smaller, which are inserted separately, a little anterior to the common duct. These have been supposed to be analogous to pancreatic vessels, but they are similar in almost every respect to those which are inserted by a common duct, and hence may be supposed to have nearly the same functions. We have noticed similar vessels inserted sepa- rately from the supposed hepatic vessels in the Dijticidte and in Timarc/ia, which certainly leads to the conclusion that they have some difference of function. The ilium (L) is of great length, and more convoluted than we have yet seen it in any larva, and ends in a very muscular cylindrical colon (M N), terminated by a short rectum. A similar and perhaps even more highly developed form of alimentary canal exists in Callidum luridum, in which the anterior portion of the oesophagus commences with a small neck, and is then enormously di- lated, after which it becomes gradually narrowed and constricted, and is joined to a second sto- mach, which in like manner is also dilated at its anterior extremity. In the middle part of its course it is twice folded, and is covered with minute coeca, as in Calandra, like which it ter- minates in a valvular pylorus, and receives at the same time the insertions of the hepatic ves- sels. The ilium is also of considerable length, is exceedingly muscular, and is dilated in two parts of its course before k terminates in a straight and very muscular colon and short rectum, as in Calandra. The length and com- plication of the intestines, therefore, appear to have some reference to the quality of the food to be digested, since it is well known that the food of these latter insects is of difficult assi- milation, being as it is chiefly the hard ligneous fibres of vegetable matter; but they cannot be received as always indicatory of a carnivorous vegetable feeder, since, as above remarked, the length of the canal is considerable in one en- tirely carnivorous larva,while it is much shorter in some herbivorous, and particularly in polleni- vorous larva?, as in the Melulont/ia and the apodal Hymenoptera. In the perfect insect, the length of the ali- mentary canal is not more indicatory of the ha- bits of the species than in the larva. It is nearly as long, and is more complicated, in the rapacious Carabida: (Jig. 423) than in the honey-sipping Lepidoptera, whose food is en- tirely liquid, while, as we have seen, it is only a very short tube in the pollenivorous larva, which subsists upon a mixture of pollen and honey ; but in the perfect insect, which subsists upon honey alone, and which it might be sup- posed requires little power of digestion, the canal is long and tortuous. In the rapacious Carabida, it is from two to three times the length of the whole body. At its commence- ment at the pharynx it is funnel-shaped, and opens directly into the oesophagus (fig. 424,//), which is gradually enlarged as it passes through the thorax, until it arrives at the meta-thoracic segment, where it becomes greatly dilated, and