38 ECHINODERMATA. shell. The gullet and part of the stomach are usually everted, protruded, and applied round the object to be swallowed, which is then drawn in. The hard or indigestible matters, such as the shells of mollusca, are discharged by the mouth. The star-fish is said to be very de- structive to oyster-beds, and is popularly be- lieved to suck the animals out of their shells. Bishop Sprat, in his History of the Royal Society, informs us that great penalties are laid by the Admiralty Court upon those en- gaged in the oyster-fishery who " do not tread under their feet or throw upon the shore a fish which they call a Five-finger, resembling a spur-rowel, because that fish gets into the oysters when they gape, and sucks them out." Tiedemann found the coeca to contain a grey- ish-white fluid which he supposed to be di- gested aliment; others again, such as Meckel, regard the coeca as secreting organs, analogous to die biliary organs of many invertebrate ani- mals, with which, it must be allowed, they agree in several respects. b. The mouth of the Echinus is an orifice situated in the middle of the circular mem- brane which fills up the lower aperture of the shell (fig.15, a.) The points of the five teeth are seen within it, and at no great distance from its circumference the ten tubular tentacula (d) are observable, which have been already described. The teeth are set in five moveable sockets or jaws which surround the commence- ment of the gullet, and with the addition of some accessory pieces form the singular struc- ture usually named Aristotle s lantern. The lantern (Jigs. 10,17,and 18) has the appearance of a five-sided pyramid placed with its apex Fig. ir. Dental apparatus of ihe Sea-vrdiin viewed , from above. downwards or towards the mouth, the gullet («) rising through its centre. It is made up of five smaller hollow pyramids (It,) which are the sockets of the teeth. Each lesser pyramid is three-sided; its external side (fig. 18, A',) which forms one of the faces of the greater pyramid, presents an opening in its upper half which is closed by membrane ; its lateral faces (fig. 18, h, A,) are applied to the cor- responding sides of the adjacent sockets, with which they are connected by short muscular fibres (p); they approach each other at the inner Fig. 18. A, two sockets with teeth, B, single socket with of Echinus esculentus. its tooth viewed on the outside. edge of the socket, but do not meet. The tooth (f) is prismatic, very long, and lodged in a groove formed in the external side of the socket; its point projects beyond the apex of the socket; its opposite extremity or root rises above the base, where it is bent inwards and downwards and inclosed in a membrane. The teeth are very hard at the point, but softer towards the root, where they are easily sepa- rable into transverse scales or plates with a fine silky or asbestine lustre; they seem to grow continually at the root, and wear at the point as in the Rodentia. Ten additional pieces contribute to form the lantern. Five of these (i) are oblong and flattened, and are placed horizontally, in a ra- diating manner, on the upper surface of the lantern, occupying the intervals between the bases of the lesser pyramids. The other five (k) are placed directly over the first; they are longer but more slender, and bent in a semi- circular form, the convexity being upwards; their central ends are articulated with the cor- responding extremities of the horizontal pieces; the outer ends are bifid and give attachment to ligaments. The muscles and ligaments belonging to the dental apparatus partly pass between its dif- ferent pieces, and partly connect it with the border of the shell. It will be recollected that the border of the shell forms five processes (figs. 10 and 17, g,g, g,) which rise in the form of arches into its cavity round the lower aper- ture. Ten muscles (m, m,) arise from these arches, and descending inwardly are inserted into the lesser pyramids or sockets near the point. Two of these muscles come from every arch, and diverging are inserted into different pyramids, so that each pyramid receives its two muscles in a converging manner from two adjacent arches. The muscles described draw outwards the sockets separating them and widening the mouth. Other ten muscles (n, n,) arise in pairs from the border of the shell in the intervals of the arches, and, ascending, are inserted into the outer surface of the sockets near their base, each socket receiving a pair. These are antagonists to the last described; they move the points of the pyramids, and consequently the teeth inwards and against each other. Five muscles composed of short