above the tendon; but when brought into ac- tion, each fibre approaches to a right line, which runs obliquely down from the tendon to its point of insertion. Thus, instead of a great arch we have a number of inclined planes, very short in front, very long at the sides, and of intermediate length further back, all surmount- ed by a tendinous platform. The base of the lung resting on the muscle descends with it; the liver, stomach, spleen, and all the moveable viscera of the abdomen are pressed downwards and forwards against the abdominal muscles. When the diaphragm descends, therefore, in- spiration takes place by the rush of air into the expanding thorax; when it ascends expiration is the result, the air being forced out. In the former case the diaphragm is active; in the latter it is completely passive, following the re- siliency of the lungs, and pressed up by the action of the abdominal muscles on the viscera beneath.* The central tendon descends very little on account of its attachment to the peri- cardium : descent here would be useless or worse; but the lateral portions on which the broad bases of the lungs rest, freely change their place, and allow of considerable expansion of the thorax where it is most required. From viewing the insertion of the diaphragm into the lower ribs it might be thought that they would be drawn in by its action, and the capacity of the thorax thereby diminished more than increased; but the intercostals prevent this occurrence by acting at the same moment to elevate and draw out the ribs. The crura, besides acting in common with the broad muscle in enlarging the thorax, serve to fix the central tendon, and prevent it from being drawn to either side by the irregular ac- tion of either half of the muscle, or forced too high up. They may also by their fibres conti- nued on each side of the oesophageal orifice, and contracting in concert with the rest of the muscle, close that opening, and thus prevent regurgitation from the stomach at the time when this viscus is pressed upon by the descent of the diaphragm. The extent to which the diaphragm descends is not great. The central tendon will not admit of much displacement in the normal state of the parts, and the shape and motions of the liver show that even the great ate do not un- dergo much alteration. Haller indeed says that he saw the diaphragm descend so much in violent inspiration as to present a convexity to- wards the abdomen.f But this is quite incre- dible. The utmost muscular effort, if there were no fixed point in its centre, could only obliterate the arch; but even this we think im- possible on account of its attachments. We find on some occasions one side of the dia- phragm act independently of the other. The importance of the diaphragm in respira- tion is shewn by the difficulty with which that ,,r * Senac says the anterior fibres assist in expira- tion by drawing the ribs inwards and backwards. Acad, des Sciences, 1729. t In violentissima respiratione omnino vidi deor- sum versus abdomen diaphragma convexum reddi. Haller, Elcm. I'hys. lib. viii. sect. 1. IAGM. 5 function is performed when the actions of the muscle are interfered with. Ascites and tu- mours in the abdomen render the breathing shorter; even a full meal will have this effect, owing to the impediments to the descent of the diaphragm. If the phrenic nerves be divided in a living animal, great difficulty of breathing- follows, the entire labour of respiration being thrown on the muscles which elevate the ribs. If the spinal marrow be divided above the, giving off of the phrenic nerves, respiration ceases at once, but not so if divided imme- diately below that point; and in a case of fatal dyspnoea Beclard could find no cause but a tumour on one of the phrenic nerves. Besides the part which it plays in respira- tion, it is probable that the diaphragm, by its ordinary motions, exerts a beneficial influence on the digestive organs. The liver must be more or less affected by it in its secretion, and the gall-bladder is supposed to receive from it a compression which in some degree makes amends for the want of muscular fibres,* whilst the agitation of the hollow viscera will favour the transmission of their contents. The chyle in the lacteals and thoracic duct may also receive an impulse from the dia- phragm. Some anatomists were of opinion that the venous circulation in the abdomen was also assisted by the pressure, but the absence of valves in these vessels must prevent them from deriving any assistance from alternate compres- sion and relaxation. It acts powerfully, how- ever, on the venous circulation of the whole system by the vacuum which it has a tendency to form in the thorax. The nerves which pass through the dia- phragm, as the par vagum, sympathetics, and splanchnics, were formerly supposed to suffer compression, and the alternate transmission and interruption of the nervous influence, it was thought, could account for the pulsations of the heart and the vermicular motions of the intestines. But all this is too obviously erro- neous to require comment. The diaphragm assists, though rather as a passive instrument, in the expulsion of the urine, feces, &c. For this purpose the thorax is filled with air, the rima glottidis is closed, and the diaphragm forms a resisting surface against which the abdominal muscles press the hollow viscera, and force out their contents wherever an exit is afforded them. The diaphragm is more or less engaged in hiccup, yawning, sighing, sobbing, groaning, which are all actions connected in various ways with the function of respiration, and some of them more especially dependent on the dia- phragm, particularly hiccup, which is an explo- sive inspiration, in which the diaphragm acts involuntarily by a short and sudden effort, a sound being at the same time produced in the larynx. The diaphragm also performs an important part in vomiting. A full inspiration precedes this act, then the glottis is closed, and the ab- * Senac.