897 INSECTA. are kidney-shaped, and are spread over a great part of the sides of the head. The ocelli, which are found in most of this order, do not exist in Blatta. They are very distinct in the Gryllida and Locustida, and also in the mole- cricket ; but it is remarkable, as Mr. Kirby for- merly observed, that they are not met with in the pupa or larva state of these insects. In the pupa of the mole-cricket there are simply two slightly elevated tubercles, in the situation in which the ocelli are afterwards developed. They thus appear to have reference to some particular condition of the perfect insect, al- though the habits of the three states appear to be similar. The antenna are organs of much importance, and are usually of considerable length, except in the carnivorous Mantida, or praying insects, in which they are very short. These insects, which take their living food by sight alone, have the shortness of their an- tenna?, the supposed organs of hearing, com- pensated for by the immense size of their large globular cornea?, situated at the superior angles of the head, so as to enable the insect to see in every direction. But in those which reside in the dark, or which seek their food by the aid of other senses, the antenna? are exceedingly long, and formed of an immense number of joints, especially in the Gryllida, Achetida, and Blattida, which are noted for acuteness of hearing. In the interior of the head the laminae squamosa are thick and strong, and are articu- lated, as in Hydrous, with the angles of the epi- cranial suture superiorly, and inferiorly with the lamina: posteriores, and the tentorium forms a distinct ring, as in Lucanus. In the Neuroptera we recognise the same elementary parts in the head and mouth as in the preceding Orders, but in this they are de- veloped into new forms. The epicranium, so conspicuous in the former, is reduced to its minimum in this Order, owing to the immense development of the organs of vision, which, attaining their greatest extent in (Es/nia gran- dis, are expanded over the whole of the upper and lateral surfaces of the head, and are ap- proximated together in the median line, leaving only the epicranial suture between them. A small portion only of the epicranium exists anterior to these great cornea?, but in that por- tion, as usual, are situated the ocelli; while the minute antennse, reduced also to their mi- nimum of size in these Libellulida, the most rapacious and insatiable of all insects, are still situated, as in Coleoptera, at the external angles of the suture. In the dilated anterior portion of the head we distinctly recognize the clypeus posterior and anterior, and below these the transverse cordiform lubrum, separated by su- tures, but freely articulated together as in Or- thoptera. At the lower concave margin of the clypeus anterior in CEs/ina grandis is a short triangular plate intervening between the clypeus and labrum, and articulating with both like a distinct segment; it is probably only part of the labrum. On the under surface of the head the gula and sub-mentum are indistinct, and merged as it were in the construction of three VOL. II. immensely dilated, doubly articulated plates, which cover the whole lateral and under sur- face of the mouth. The anterior portion of the middle plate, which in (Eshna is rounded at its anterior margin, is the true ligula, while the articulation behind it, from which arise the lateral plates, is the analogue of the mentum. The two lateral plates, composed each of two articulations, and in some species also of a third very minute one in the form of a short spine at the apex, we regard, with Brulle,* as the proper labial palpi immensely dilated. The mandibles concealed within the mouth are short, strong, and, in Libellula quadrimaculnta, arched. At the apex they are bifid, and armed with two sharp triangular teeth, and at their base with four sharp-pointed ones, excavated, and placed in different directions, adapted for crushing and cutting rather than for mastica- ting the food. Within the head they are arti- culated with portions of the epicranial and ba- silar regions, as in Coleoptera. The maxilla are long and prehensile. The true palpi are en- tirely absent, but the galea exists as an oblong articulated lobe, and the lucinia, which is arti- culated at its base and sharpened along its inner margin, as in the Blattida, is armed at its apex with four crooked sharp-pointed teeth, while the cardo is long, and articulated with the base of the maxilla at an angle, to allow of extensive motion, as in the maxilla of Orthop- tera. In other families of the Neuroptera, as in the Panorpida, the organs of manducation are small, but the anterior part of the head is elongated into a rostrum, occasioned by the narrowing and extension of the clypei, as we have before noticed in the Curculionida, while in the Phryganida, which take no food in their perfect state, the parts of the mouth are almost atrophied. In Hymenoptera the mouth assumes an en- tirely new form, but the changes in it are con- fined to the maxilla? and labrum, which are soon to become its chief organs. The head, placed vertically on the thorax, is still well de- veloped. The epicranial region is large, and extends very nearly to the insertion of the antenna? on the front. In most species it is densely covered with hairs, and the ocelli (fig. 375, b,) which are constant in this class, are usually arranged in a triangle on its most ver- tical part. The cornea (c) are large and kid- ney-shaped, and cover part of the lateral sur- face of the head, leaving between them a broad front, occupied by the clypei (d) and part of the epicranium. But in the males of the luve- bee, which come abroad only in the brightest sun-light in quest of the female, this space is diminished, and the cornea? are expanded over part of the front, and the whole of the epicra- nial region, as in the Libellula; the most ex- tensive vision being required by these insects, to enable them to discover the object of their solicitude, as by the other in the pursuit of its prey. In some of the pollenivorous and pre- * Annal. Soc. Enlom. de France, torn. ii. p. 343. 3 N