16 DIGESTION. and lastly, the conversion of chyme into chyle in the duodenum.* After the account which we have given above of the organs of mastication, nothing further remains for us to say on the first part of the process; we may therefore conceive that the food, after it has been mechanically divided by means of the teeth or any analogous organ, is conveyed to the stomach, in order to be acted on by the gastric juice and converted into chyme.f The process of chymification consists in a certain chemical change, by which the aliment, from whatever source it may have been derived, and whatever may have been its origi- nal constitution, is converted into a uniform pultaceous mass, having certain specific pro- perties, which are different from those of the substances from which it is formed. And we may here observe, that this kind of change, which has been frequently spoken of as something of a mysterious or inexplicable nature, is perfectly analogous to what takes place in all chemical action, where the addition of a new agent imparts new properties to the mixture. The supposed difficulty in this case has arisen from an indistinct conception in the minds of many physiologists, both of the nature of chemical action generally, and of the appro- priate powers which belong to a living orga- nized system. The essential and exclusive functions of vitality may probably be all re- duced to two great principles of sensation and motion, as depending primarily upon the action of the nerves and the muscles. Chemical affi- nity is independent of these principles, but it is, in various ways, modified by their operation, by bringing the agents into contact, by separa- ting them from each other, and thus enabling them to produce new compounds, and when the compounds are formed, by removing them from the further action of the agents, and by conveying them to the situations when they are required, for the exercise of some new function. In the present case the glands of the stomach secrete a fluid possessed of specific properties ; by the act of deglutition, and by the muscular contraction of the stomach itself, the alimentary mass is conveyed to the part where it may be brought into contact and mixed with this fluid. Each portion of the aliment is successively subjected to the due action of this agent, and when the process is completed, it is carried through the pylorus out of the stomach, while a new portion of aliment takes its place and goes through the same process. In this part of our subject there are two * See on this subject Magendie, Physiol, t. ii. p. 81, 2; Dr. Prout's paper in Ann. Phil. vol. xiii and xiv. and Dr. Philip's Inquiry, ch. vii. sect. 1. f It is necessary to remark in this p'.ace, that most of the older physiologists, and some even of a later period, have employed the terms chyme and chyle indiscriminately, or at least have not made any accurate distinction between them. The words j^iAo? and X"!*'"; appea'' to be nearly synonymous in their original acceptation; see Castelli, Lexicon, and Stephens, Thes. in loco. The latest physiolo- gists have, however, for the most part, employed the two terms in the restricted sense which is adopted in this article. points which will require our particular atten- tion ; first, we must ascertain the properties of chyme, and secondly, those of the gastric juice. It is commonly stated, that from whatever source the chyme is derived, provided the stomach be in a healthy state, its properties are always the same,* and it must be admitted that, as a general principle, this would appear to be the case. In animals of the same species, notwithstanding the miscellaneous nature of the substances that are employed in diet, the result of the complete action of the stomach is a mass of uniform consistence, in which the peculiar sensible properties of the articles of food cannot be recognized. But this statement must be re- ceived with certain limitations, and is only ap- plicable to the ordinary diet, for we have reason to believe, not only that the chyme produced from animal matter differs from that of vegetable origin, but even that different species of vege- table aliment produce a different kind of chyme. The chyme from fruits or green vege- table matter is notoriously more disposed to pass into the acetous fermentation than chyme formed from farina or gluten, a circumstance which must depend upon a difference in their chemical constitution. We also know that the same kind of aliment is differently acted on by the gastric juice of different individuals; but this may probably depend upon some variation in the nature of the gastric juice itself, and is therefore to be referred to a different principle. Disregarding, however, for the present what may appear only exceptions to the general rule, we must inquire into the nature of the sub- stance which is found, under ordinary circum- stances, in the proper digestive stomach, after it has experienced the full operation of the gastric juice. Although many observations have been made upon the pultaceous mass which is thus produced, our information re- specting it is not very precise; we are told little more than that the texture, odour, and flavour of the food employed are no longer perceptible, and it is said to have slightly acid properties, or rather to be disposed to pass into the acetous fermentation. As we remarked above, the change which the food undergoes is to be regarded as the result of chemical action, where not merely the mechanical texture and the physical properties of the substance are changed, but where it has acquired new chemi- cal relations. This conclusion is deduced from a number of very interesting experiments, which were performed successively by Reaumur, Stevens, and Spallanzani, and which consisted in insert- ing different kinds of alimentary matter into perforated tubes or balls, or inclosing them in pieces of porous cloth. These were introduced into the stomach, and after some time were re- moved from it and examined, when it was found that the inclosed substances had under- gone more or less completely the process of chymification, while the enclosing body was * Haller, El. Phys. xix. 4, 31; see the remarks of Tiedemann and Gmelin in the third section of their researches.