288 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. it escapes from its posterior aperture into the foramen lacerum anterius basis cranii: in this it is contained in the fibrous structure by which the foramen is closed, and is situate at the outer side of and beneath the internal carotid artery, as that vessel ascends, from the aperture of its canal in the petrous bone, into the cavernous sinus. Here also, or even before it has escaped from the Vidian canal, it receives, when single, a filament of com- munication from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic: this filament had been long regarded as arising from the posterior branch itself, and—though at present gene- rally* considered a branch from the sympa- thetic—it has been for the most part described, in systematic works, as such under the name of the inferior, deep, sympathic, or carotidean branch of the Vidian nerve. In its direction it certainly resembles a branch of that nerve ; but in that particular it is equally entitled to be regarded one from the sympathetic to the spheno-palatine ganglion, it being either from before backward and from above downward, or from behind forward and from below up- ward. Further, in sensible qualities it strictly resembles other branches of the latter nerve; it is, as has been stated, at times separate from the proper Vidian, and connected directly with the spheno-palatine ganglion ; and it is, in fact, but one of the branches which ascend into the cranium from the superior cervical ganglion along the internal carotid artery, so that it would be equally correct to describe that fila- ment which is connected with the sixth nerve as a branch of that nerve, as to style the fila- ment in question a branch of the Vidian nerve. The view of the nature of this filament here advanced is, however, not universally admitted. Cruveilhier objects to it because the cranial branch of the Vidian nerve appears to him to resemble in all respects the carotidean: this, however, cannot be considered a valid objec- tion, it can only prove that one branch may be as much allied to the ganglionic system as the other, but the validity of the assertion may be questioned; however it may be in man, the characters of the two branches in the larger quadrupeds, the horse e. g. are sufficiently distinct, the cranial branch being of a pure white colour, and the carotidean having a gan- glionic enlargement upon it at its junction with the cranial. While traversing the pterygoid canal, soon after it has entered that canal, and in some cases even before, the posterior branch of the gan- glion gives ofF from its inner side two or three filaments, denominated by the elder Meckel posterior superior nasal: these enter the poste- rior superior part of the nostril, in one case by passing through the spheno-palatine foramen, in the other by perforating the inner wall of the pterygoid canal, and are distributed to the posterior part of the lateral wall of the nostril, to the root of the septum, to the sphenoidal sinus and to the lateral wall of the pharynx in the vicinity of the orifice of the Eustachian Bock, Cloquet, Hirzel, J. F. Meckel. tube. These branches frequently arise from the ganglion itself by a single filament, de- nominated by Bock the pharyngeal nerve, and represented by Arnold among die internal branches of the ganglion : it divides into fila- ments distributed to the several parts men- tioned. After the junction of the sympathetic fila- ment, the posterior branch is continued through the fibrous structure already mentioned, ex- ternal to the internal carotid artery, and thus enters the cranium. It then passes out- ward, backward, and upward, upon the ante- rior surface of the petrous bone, beneath the third division of the fifth, very near its attachment to the Gasserian ganglion, and enclosed in the dura mater: it is at the same time lodged in a channel upon the sur- face of the bone. It is stated by Cloquet that it here sends into the cavity of the tympanum by two canals, the orifices of which are to be seen in the channel one above the other, two filaments of extreme delicacy, which go to anastomose together upon the promontory, and to communicate with a filament of the supe- rior cervical ganglion, and with the glosso- pharyngeal nerve. According to Hirzel,* this connection between the superficial branch of the Vidian and the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve on the nerve of Jacob- son, takes place in the vicinity of the junction of the former with the facial nerve. Accord- ing to Arnold,f the superficial branch of the Vidian nerve is, as proved by the researches of others and his own, not simple, but composed of two or of several filaments, and is accom- panied by one or more very delicate filaments from the carotid plexus. In one instance he found the petrous nerve composed of four filaments on the right, and three on the left. The existence of several distinct filaments in the Vidian nerve may be easily observed in the larger animals. It pursues the course men- tioned, until it has reached the hiatus Fallopii, through which it is transmitted to the aqueduct of Fallopius, where it meets and becomes in- timately connected with the facial portio dura nerve. At their junction the facial nerve pre- sents a gangliform swelling, from which two very delicate filaments proceed to the auditory nerve. J From the time that the posterior branch of the ganglion enters the cranium until it has joined the facial nerve, it is called the cranial or superficial petrous branch of the Vidian nerve; by Arnold petrosus superficialis major in contradistinction to another nervous filament, which connects his ' otic' ganglion to the tym- panic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; but the application of either of these epithets would be rendered unnecessary by ceasing to consider the filament by which the posterior branch of the ganglion is connected to the sympathetic, a branch of the former. The posterior branch is also known by other * Journ. Corapl. t. xxii. + Journ. Compl. t. xxiv. % Arnold. See lingual branch of third division and chorda tympani. j1> ()?■