HEART. G04 The parietes of the ventricles at this time are firm and resisting, and present some rugae on their outer surface. Mailer* states that though the principal movement of the ventricles du- ring their systole is from the apex upwards, yet he has sometimes observed a slight but dis- tinct movement from the base downwards. The contraction of the ventricles is performed with great force, and, when vigorous, appears to be accomplished by the simultaneous action of all its fibres; but at other times, when it has be- come enfeebled, it has been observed to com- mence at the apex and extend itself upwards. The diastole of the ventricles consists of two distinct stages. The first, which immediately follows its systole, is sudden, the apex being pushed downwards and apparently passing deeper into the chest, and is occasioned by the return of the heart to its state of rest. The second is also sudden, and attended by a rapid but not very extensive enlargement of the heart in all its dimensions. The parietes of the heart are soft and flaccid, and their external surface smooth during their diastole. The diastole of the heart is performed with con- siderable force, so that Pechlin, Perrault, Ham- berger, and others long ago maintained that this equally with the systole is the result of a vital action. This opinion was again revived by Bichat, Dumas, and their followers, and is still introduced by some into the discussions upon the movements of the heart. Before we can admit an opinion of this kind, it would be necessary that very strong evidence be adduced in its favour, as it is at perfect variance with all that we know of the arrange- ment of the fibres of the heart, and of the laws of muscular contractility.f OesterreicherJ has performed the following experiment, which appears nearly decisive on this point. When a body is placed on the heart of a frog heavy enough to press it flat, but sufficiently small to allow the heart to be observed, it will be seen that the body will be lifted during the contraction of the heart, but that during its extension it will remain flat. From this it appears that the extension of the heart after the contraction is not a muscular act. The diastole of the heart depends then upon two circumstances. 1st, Upon the na- tural elasticity of the organ, which it possesses in common with every other muscle, and by which it instantly resumes its state of rest as soon as its contraction has ceased. This, which is usually termed the relaxation of a muscle in whatever part of the body it occurs, must be expected to be more energetic in the heart than below the sixth rib. On the other hand, when the ribs are depressed, as during a deep expiration, the apex of the heart may be felt beating between the fourth and fifth ribs." * El. Phys. torn. i. p. 400. t Scharschmid supposed that certain pretended longitudinal fibres^by shortening the heart enlarged its cavities, while the transverse fibres by contract- ing separately diminish its capacity. t Muller's Handbuch der Physiologie des men- schen, Erster Band, p. 163. in the muscles of voluntary motion, as from the arrangement of its fibres a great part must be more strongly compressed. This occurs during the first of the two stages into which we divided the diastole. 2d, Upon its sudden distention during the contraction of theauricles, when we have every reason to believe that the ventricles are completely passive. This con- stitutes the second stage of the diastole. The blood must then pass from the auricles into the ventricles during each diastole at two dis- tinct periods of time, corresponding to these two stages. During the first stage, or the re- laxation of the ventricles, it flows from the auricles to fill up the vacuum produced in their interior; while, during the second stage, it is forcibly propelled by the auricles. It would be difficult to estimate the relative proportion of these two quantities of blood. Those who suppose that the contraction of the auricles is feeble must consequently believe that most of the blood passes from the auricles into the ven- tricles during the first stage. It has been long disputed whether or not the ventricles empty themselves completely during each systole. It is very difficult to perceive anything like correct data upon this point in the warm-blooded animals with opaque hearts; but reasoning from analogy, from what we see in the cold-blooded animals whose hearts be- come quite pale during each systole, (not, as Harvey supposed, from the blood being pressed out of its parietes, but from the blood in its cavity, seen through its transparent sides, being almost entirely expelled during its systole,) we would be inclined to believe-that little blood remained after each systole in the active state of the organ, while we can easily sup- pose that a greater or less quantity is left after each contraction when the organ is less vi- gorous. It was the subject of a violent dispute at the commencement of the last century between the Montpellier and Parisian anatomists and phy- siologists, whether or not the heart became shortened or elongated during its contraction. In all the warm-blooded animals at least it undoubtedly becomes shortened.* We may at the same time state that the obliteration of the cavity of the ventricle depends much more upon the approximation of its sides than the drawing up of the apex. Impulse of the heart.—It has been at various times, and still is by some late and modern experimenters,f maintained that the apex of the heart strikes the parietes of the thorax during * The authority of Harvey has been quoted in favour of the opinion that the heart becomes elon- gated during its contraction, and certainly in one part of his work it is distinctly stated, that it is so to a certain extent : " Undique contrahi magis vero secundum latera ; ita uti minores magnitu- dinis et longiuseulum, et collectum appareat." t Pigeaux, Stokes, Burdach, and Beau. Br. Corrigan has, much to his credit, publicly re- nounced his previously published opinions on this question, after more accurate observations had con- vinced him of his error.