EYE. 179 This membrane is of a deep brown or black colour, being stained with the colouring matter called the black pigment; but when this is removed, it exhibits a high degree of arterial and venous vascularity. Its external surface is comparatively rough, coarse, and flocculent, and obscured by the cellular membrane which connects it to the sclerotic. The inner surface, which is in contact with the retina, presents a very different appearance. It is soft and smooth, and when minutely injected, resembles the more delicate mucous membranes, and exhibits a remarkable degree of minute villous vascu- larity. The external surface being composed of the larger branches of arteries, veins, and nerves, may be torn away from the soft, smooth, and more closely interwoven inner layer, or the inner layer may be partially dissected up from it, with some care, especially in the eyes of the larger quadrupeds. This manoeuvre having been executed by Ruysch, and prepara- tions so formed displayed by him, the inner layer has been denominated the tunica Ruys- chiana. But this is a mere anatomical artifice. There is no natural division into two layers, the soft, smooth, and highly vascular inner surface being formed by the ultimate subdivi- sion and distribution of the larger branches of vessels, which exhibit themselves sepaiately on the outside. It is a condition somewhat analo- gous to that of the skin, where the soft, smooth, villous external surface presents so remarkable a contrast to the rough internal surface with its layer of cellular membrane uniting it to the subjacent parts. ~->The choroid is supplied with blood from the ophthalmic artery by the short ciliary arteries, which penetrate the sclerotic at a short distance from the entrance of the optic nerve, and are distributed to it in nearly twenty small branches. These branches ramify and inosculate freely on the outside of the membrane, and are visible as distinct vessels, especially on the posterior part of the sphere. They finally terminate on the inner surface, forming a beautiful vascular expansion. The long ciliary arteries give scarcely any twig to the choroid, being distri- buted to the iris, and the anterior branches furnished to the sclerotic, as described in speaking of that membrane, do not penetrate to the choroid. The veins of the choroid pre- sent a peculiar appearance. The ramifications are arranged in the form of arches or portions of a circle, bending round to a common trunk like those of certain trees with pendulous branches. They discharge their blood into four or five larger branches which penetrate the sclerotic at nearly equal distances from each other behind the middle of the eyeball. On account of this peculiar arrangement they have received the name of vasa vorticosa. They lie external to the ciliary arteries, but the ultimate ramifications pervade the inner surface in the same manner as the arteries; and if the venous System of the eye be minutely injected, the same beautiful uniform villous vascularity is displayed as in the arterial injections. The annexed figure is a copy of Zinn's re- presentation of the vasa vorticosa. Fig. 104. The numerous nerves which pierce the scle- rotic and run forward between that membrane and the choroid, called ciliary nerves, being distributed almost exclusively to the iris, are to be noticed when that organ is described; small branches of them are, however, probably distributed to the choroid and its appendages, and possibly even to the retina and hyaloid membrane. The inner villous surface of the choroid, which in man is stained with the black pig- ment, in several other animals presents a bril- liant colour and metallic lustre. This is called the tapeturn. It is not a superadded material nor dependent on any imposed or separable colour- ing matter, but is merely a different condition of the surface of the choroid or tunica Ruvs- chiana, by means of which rays of light of a certain colour only are reflected. It exists in the form of a large irregular patch, occupying the bottom of the eye toward the outside of the entrance of the optic nerve. It is of a beautiful blue, green, or yellow colour, with splendid metallic lustre, and sometimes white as silver. It is not obscured by the black pigment which covers the rest of the surface and even encroaches a little on its margin, and consequently it acts most perfectly as a concave reflector, causing the rays of light previously concentrated on the bottom of the eye by the lens to be returned, and to produce that re- markable luminous appearance observed in the eyes of cats and other animals when seen in obscure situations. This provision is,absent m man, the quadrumanous animals, bats, the insectivorous order, perhaps all the rodentia, the sloths and many other of the class mammalia ; while it is present in the majority if not all of the ruminants, as well as in the horse, the cetacea, and most of the carnivorous tribe. -It does not appear to exist in birds or reptiles, and is absent in the osseous, although present in the cartilaginous fishes. I must here, how- ever, state that I am obliged to speak loosely respecting this matter, as the subject has not yet been thoroughly investigated. The use of this tapetum has not been ascertained, or the reason why it exists in some and is absent in other animals explained. It is obvious that where it is present the rays of light are trans- mitted through the retina, and again when reflected by the tapetum are returned through the same retina, thus twice pervading that structure. k 2