310 FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. otherwise than by allowing it to come or return to a state from which it is preserved by the presence of the influence; and there is no good reason, either theoretical or experimental, for believing that the state induced in the case under consideration is one in which the eye would necessarily be, which, in fact, would be natural to the organ but for the restraining influence exerted through the fifth nerve. It is easy to imagine that the absence of such an influence should render a part slow to take on any vital action ; though even this, until proved, is an assumption—an assumption which we are induced to adopt from the fre- quency with which sensation and pain are found associated with the establishment of cer- tain vital processes, more particularly inflam- mation, but which is, on the other hand, con- tradicted by the readiness with which inflam- mation and its consequences are excited in parts whose nervous faculties are impaired or destroyed by agencies which make little or no impression when those faculties are retained, and which must be demonstrated before admit- ted, since it is manifest from the occurrence of that process after the destruction of all trans- mitted influence at least, that the principle— the main-spring of it must reside elsewhere; and hence that, if in the natural state the nerve influence the process at all by means of such a property, it can be only in the character of a secondary and controlling power. It does, however, seem proved by the result of Magen- die's experiment, that the interruption of the influence did retard the inflammatory process, inasmuch as the eye, on the side of the undi- vided nerve, was very actively inflamed the day after the application of ammonia to it, whilst the other eye did not present any trace of in- flammation ; a circumstance by the way diffi- cult, if not impossible, to reconcile with the doctrine that the process of inflammation is directly influenced in either way, whether posi- tively or negatively, by the power of the nerve; and further, that the division of the nerve should diminish the vital powers of the eye, and thereby render it less able to resist the effects which inflammatory action tends to pro- duce. But indeed there does not appear any reason for admitting that the alterations which took place in the condition of the eye were produced directly by the loss of nervous influ- ence. Having, as he conceived, disproved, by the experiment related, the idea that the alte- rations were owing to the continued exposure of the eye to the air, or to the want of the lachrymal secretion,—the only other causes which appear to have occurred to him,—Ma- gendie arrived at a conclusion the opposite of that just mentioned, and adopted the opinion that the phenomena " depend upon an influ- ence purely nervous"* exerted by the fifth nerve upon the eye,—" an influence independent of the connection of the nerve with the spinal mar- row, "f—an influence " proper to the nerve, * Anatomie des Systemes nerveux, &c. t. ii. p. 716. t Journal de Physiologie, p. 304. which has not its source in the cerebro-spinal system, and which is even the more energetic, the farther we remove from that system to a certain distance," of which the following is his proof. " Alterations of nutrition in the eye are the less complete, the less rapid, as we remove farther from the point of branching of the nerves of the fifth pair, and as we cut, within the cra- nium, the fasciculus of origin the nearer to its insertion ; finally, the section of the nerve on the margin of the fourth ventricle no longer produces any alteration in the state of the eye." * In this view there are plainly two posi- tions advanced, viz. that the nerve does itself exert a proper and independent influence upon the nutrition of the eye, and that it is the sec- tion of the nerve which causes the exercise of that influence, or, to use his own words, which is the cause of the inflammation, &c. That the occurrence of the alterations in the eye, in the case in question, is not due to an influence exerted by the brain through the nerve, and that it must proceed from another cause, and that not dependent upon the connection be- tween them, is manifest, since it is consequent upon the interruption of that connection ; and therefore, if the nerve do possess the supposed influence, it must be a proper and independent one : but are we, therefore, to infer that the nerve does exert such an influence upon the organ ? It appears to the writer that we cannot: for can we suppose that the nerve is endowed with a property to be displayed expressly under cir- cumstances, which it is fair to say were not contemplated in the establishment of natural laws, viz. in cases of mutilation? or is it possi- ble that a separate influence can exist in the nerve and increase in energy in proportion as the nerve is curtailed; for the nearer the section is made to the eye, the more remarkable are the effects ; or if any other proof that the nerve does not possess such an influence be wanting, can we suppose that it is possessed for the eye and not for the other parts to which the branches of the nerve are distributed ? Why does not inflammation forthwith assail the nostrils, the mouth, and cheeks upon the mere section of the nerve,f as well as the eye ? Manifestly be- * Op. cit. ibid. t It is stated by Professor Alison, Outlines of Physiology, p. 147, that inflammation, ulceration, and sloughing are produced sometimes on the mem- brane of the nose and on the gums by section of the fifth nerve, "as was first ascertained by Magendie." The only passages approaching at all to this state- ment, which the author has found in Magendie's writings, are at page 181, Journal de Physiologie, t. iv, and page 717, Anatomie des Systemes Ner- veux, &c. Desmoulins et Magendie, t. ii. In the first he says, " when a single nerve is cut, there appear alterations in the nostrils, the mouth, the surface of the tongue on that side ; the half of the tongue becomes whitish, its epidermis is thickened, the gums quit the teeth ; the alimentary matters sink into the intervals which are formed ; probably because the animals having no longer their atten- tion attracted by the sensation of the tendency of the matters to pass between the teeth and the gums, push them thither without perceiving it;" and in the second, " a part of the broken food re- mains on that side, between the teeth and the cheek, and its contact terminates by ulcerating the