FIBRES OF THE HEART. 625 The third stage. In pursuing the mass of blended fibres, crc, occupying the middle of fig. 278, it is found that, after having formed the left, it splits under the line marked by stars into two bands, which embrace and con- tribute to form the right ventricle. These sepa- rated bands were stated in the preliminary remarks to be of unequal lengths, the longer making two and the shorter making but one spiral circle round the heart. The longer, in the first place, assumes the character of a layer and forms the middle layer of the septum. It requires to be described in three portions. Portion 1, being attached to the valve of the other section of the aorta, was stripped off in unwinding the heart; in the wound-up state it passes over the pulmonary channel of fibres, p, along the part marked 1, in its way to the aorta, a a ; its absence, however, opens to view the fibres coming from the base and form- ing the right layer of the septum. Portion 2 proceeds from the starred line across to enter into the formation of the rope, Rit, and will be noticed hereafter. Portion 3 is the longer band; it is not entirely seen, being overlapped by some of the fibres of portion 4; it passes across to the niche, Cpc, where it was di- vided in unwinding the heart, in order to liberate the two ventricles which were encircled together by this band. Previously to pursuing this band further, it is better to trace it as the middle layer of the septum in its natural situ- ation—the wound-up state of the heart. In fig. 280 it forms the extended layer, crc, in association with portion 2, and split from por- tion 4, which does not belong to the septum ; on being replaced, its cut edge, a, applies to the cut edge, b, in passing as the middle layer between the right and left layers of the septum. The middle layer is seen in fig. 282 emerging at the posterior edge of the septum, where portion 2 disconnects itself to join at the under surface the band above, but in this figure is marked C large, indicating that it is derived from this layer, which has hitherto been lettered crc. This layer, being now deprived of all its other portions, will hereafter be considered as a band, and it has already been explained why it should be denominated the longer band. This band in emerging at the posterior edge of the septum is joined by another band of fibres, which is seen in fig. 281, forming part of the internal layer of the proper wall of the right ventricle; its fibres, pc, arise from the pul- monary artery, pp, and from one of the carneae columnae not in sight; they cross ob- liquely over this cavity to the posterior edge of the septum to join the band in ques- tion. By the intimate blending of the fibres of these two bands the apicial half of the posterior boundary of this ventricle is constructed. The longer band, now aug- mented, is lettered accordingly in fig. 282, Cpc, and in proceeding soon receives at its inner surface an accession of fibres, a, coming down from the aorta. This band, Cpca, in winding spirally from left to right round the left ventricle along its middle third, gradually approaches both the base and the surface : for VOL.II. when it arrives at the anterior edge of the sep- tum it becomes the basial band, and having been traced round the left under the right ven- tricle, in making its second circle it passes over that cavity. Injig. 281 the commencement of its second course is exhibited. It is bisected, one portion, Cpcaa, being held up by a probe ; the other, at the anterior coronary track, act, receives at its inner surface a fasciculus of fibres, a, from the aorta, aa, and is also lettered Cpcaa. This fasciculus and por- tion of the band form together a groove, by winding over the pulmonary channel when brought down into its place, and which toge- ther form the basial part of the anterior boun- dary of this cavity. This band in its progress round this ventricle constitutes the basial band of the middle layer of its proper wall, and forms so many connexions with the base, that to trace them all would be found a very com- plicated piece of dissection; it is, therefore, deemed better to give a general description of them. For instance, the aorta presents three different aspects under -which this band is con- nected to it: the first, at the termination of the anterior coronary track ; the second, between the pulmonary artery and the annulus venosus ; and the third, between the annulus venosus and the annulus arteriosus, or at the extremity of the posterior coronary track. The aorta re- ceives at each of these parts an insertion of fibres from the outer surface of the band ; and the band receives on its inner surface a fasci- culus from the aorta. These reciprocal com- munications occasion the band to be very firmly bound down to the base, and to be arranged, to a certain extent, into festoons. For each of these accessions from the aorta, an addi- tional a is added to the lettering of the band, which is, accordingly, designated Cpca a a a. As the band passes the annulus venosus, its outer fibres by a gentle obliquity in their course successively arrive at its tendinous margin, into which they become inserted immediately below those of the superficial layer, and some proceeding still more deeply pass under the tendinous margin into the ven- tricle, and form the musculi pectinati. In order to avoid repetition it may be here remarked, that this part of the description ap- plies to the annulus arteriosus also. The last two accessions of fibres this band receives should be traced, since they assist in the con- struction of the posterior boundary of the right ventricle. In fig. 282 this band is seen in the latter part of its course round the right ventri- cle, marked Citaaa; on reaching the pos- terior coronary track, pet, it is joined on its inner surface by two fasciculi which bind it down to the base, but on each side of this track it is separated and raised. One of these fasciculi, the last derived from the aorta, is not seen in this figure; the other appears emer- ging from under this ventricle, being portion 2 of the middle layer of the septum, which disconnected itself from this band, Cpc, in its first circle round the left ventricle ; it is marked C large, being derived from the middle mass of fibres, cue, in fig. 278, in which 2 T