861 INSECTA. (fig. 333) upon the sap that flows from the The third tribe, Macrosterni, Westw. in- wounded bark or roots. eludes a family of insects, Elaterida, (Jig. 334), Fig. 333. Fig. 334. Dynastes Hercules. , the epicranium ; b, the clypeus; c, labrum; d, mandibles •, e, maxilla and palpi ;/, labial palpi; </, antenna;; h, tbe eye; i, prothorax and born; k, scntellum ; I, elytra ; m, abdomen; n, femur; o, til)ia; p, the tarsus; q, unguis. Elater noctilucus, (Click-beetle, female.) West-Indian Jire-beetle. or springing-beetles, which are commonly known in their state of larvae, as the wire-worm, and are often exceedingly injurious to meadows and corn-fields. In some counties many acres of meadow-land have occasionally been de- stroyed by these insects attacking the roots of the grass, which then quickly perishes.* They are characterized in their perfect state by having an elongated body, with the head sunk deeply into a notch in the prothorax; by their fan-shaped or seriated antenna?, and by a long spine or pro- cess directed backwards from the pro-sternum or under-surface of the prothorax, and received into a groove in the meso-sternum. By means of .this spine they are enabled, on bending the body and then suddenly retracting it, to spring to a considerable distance. From this act they have derived their name. Some species of the family are remarkable for shining brilliantly at night, and are the noted fire-flies of the West Indies. In the fourth tribe, Aprosterni, Westw., there are insects equally curious and destruc- tive as in the preceding. The true Aprosterni are distinguished chiefly by their soft flexible elytra, by an entire absence of any process from the sternal surface of the prothorax, and by the dilatation of the margins of the pro- the branch of a tree between its frontal (a) and thoracic horn (i), and then whirls itself round to cut through the bark and occasion a flow of sap, upon which the insect is said to subsist. Impro- bable as the statement appears, from the circum- stance that the thoracic horn is wanting in the female, we were once assured of its correctness, by a gentleman who affirmed to us he had witnessed the fact. A similar act is attributed to the male stag-beetle, Lucanus cervus, which is furnished with mandibles nearly half the length of its whole body, while in the female they are not larger than in other insects of the same size. * The Rev. F. W. Hope has ascertained that the larva; of this family were exceedingly destructive to the potato crops in the West of England during the summer of 1838, an account of which was read at the meeting of the Entomological Society, April 1st, 1839.