750 HERNIA. * Le9ons Orales, torn. ii. p. 207. * Scarpa, op. citat. p. 313. If it is so large or otherwise so circumstanced as entirely to impede communication, and if in this condition it is neglected, the discharge must take place at the groin, and the disease is permanent. Such, I believe, is the history of most of those unhappy beings who have borne about them for years this loathsome and dis- gusting affliction, until relieved by a deatli that could not have proved unwelcome. In a vast number of cases the projection is not so great, and although it may impede and delay, it does not altogether prevent the passage of fasces from one portion of the tube to the other: then as the external wound contracts, the neck of the sac forms into a membranous funnel or canal of communication, and the fseces begin to pass. The wound then heals, in some in- stances leaving a small fistulous opening through which a limpid, straw-coloured, but fetid fluid constantly distils, whilst in others a perfect and complete cicatrix is formed. But we must recollect what happens in this seem- ingly perfect cure before we can fully appreci- ate the entire nature of the case, and the degree of danger that always overhangs it. It is evident that the viscus must (at least at first) be firmly fixed at the situation of the cicatrix ; that it no longer enjoys any freedom of motion, and that it forms an angle more or less acute at the place of adhesion. It is also probable that the diameters of the two portions of intestine do not correspond. Hence the process of diges- tion is impaired, the patient must study every article of food he consumes, and the slightest indiscretion is followed by colicky pains, flatu- lence, and tormina of the bowels; often there is nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, and a drag- ging sensation at the stomach, this latter symp- tom being explained by the omentum having formed a part of the protrusion, and become ad- herent at the new-formed cicatrix. It often happens that the scar gives way, and a facal discharge takes place again, the groin thus alternately healing up and bursting out anew. This is more likely to occur in cases where the very small fistulous canal has remained, and therefore many surgeons have regarded this event as more fortunate than where the cica- trization has been complete; for the course of the fistula serves as a guide to direct the burst- ing of the accumulation externally, whereas if, as sometimes happens, the intestine should give way internally, its contents are then poured out into the peritoneal cavity, and the result must be inevitably fatal. The most curious circumstance connected with the healing of an artificial anus is, that the position of the united intestines and the intervening infundibulum or funnel behind the cicatrix is not permanent. " It is," says Scarpa,* " a certain fact confirmed by a very great num- ber of observations, that after the separation of the gangrene the two sound segments of intes- tine retire gradually beyond the ring towards the cavity of the abdomen, notwithstanding the adhesion which they have contracted with the neck of the sac, whether this is caused by the tonic and retractile action of the intestine itself and of the mesentery, or rather by the puckering of the cellular substance, which unites the hernial sac to the abdominal parietes within the ring. And this phenomenon is likewise constant and evident even in herniae not gangrenous, but merely complicated with fleshy adhesions to the neck of the sac, and therefore irreducible. In these hernia;, the immediate cause of stran- gulation being removed, the intestine, together with the hernial sac, gradually rises up towards the ring, and at last is concealed behind it." The same fact has been observed by Dupuy- tren,* who attributed it to the continued action of the mesentery on the intestine. Many indi-. viduals who had been cured of artificial anus without operation returned to the Hotel Dieu at very remote periods, and died of diseases having no relation to the original complaint. The parts were curiously and carefully examined, and the intestine, instead of being fixed to the walls of the belly, was found free and floating within the cavity. There could be no doubt of the identity of the individuals, and moreover a fibrous cord was seen extended from the point of the wall of the abdomen which corresponded with the former artificial anus, to the intestine. This cord, some lines in diameter and some inches in length, thicker at its extremities than in the middle, covered by peritoneum, and formed entirely by a cellular and fibrous tissue without any cavity, was evidently produced by the progressive elongation of the cellular membrane that had united the intestine to the wall of the abdomen ; and the cause which had occasioned this elongation was nothing else than the traction exercised by the mesentery on the intestine in the different motions of the body during life. Having now endeavoured to describe gene- rally the circumstances or conditions under which protrusions of the abdominal viscera may exist, I proceed to consider the peculiarities that arise from situation, premising that it is not my intention to enter very minutely into the descriptive anatomy of those several situa- tions in their normal or healthy states, but only in reference to and in connexion with the ex- istence of the disease under consideration. Inguinal hernia.—When a viscus is pro- truded through one or both of the apertures termed rings, situated at the anterior and infe- rior part of the abdomen, near the fold of the groin, but above Poupart's ligament, the hernia is termed inguinal. It may exist, therefore, in three different conditions. 1. Where the in- testine has been pushed through the internal ring only, and is lodged in the inguinal canal: it then appears as a small, round, firm, and moderately elastic tumour. 2. Where it has passed through the internal ring, through the inguinal canal, through the external ring, and dropping down into the scrotum of the male or the labium pudendi of the female, appears as a larger and more yielding tumour, of a pyrami- dal shape, the apex of the pyramid being di- rected towards the anterior superior spinous