454 GENERATION. With regard now to the time at which the ovum first enters the uterus in the human fe- male, let us examine the facts which are before us. The greater number of observations of this kind are made on aborted products ; many of these are malformed or diseased, in consequence of which very probably they have been thrown off by abortion ; others are injured by the violence of the action which causes the uterus to be emptied of its contents. Our know ledge of the time of conception is generally founded upon the cessation of the menstrual flow on the first occasion when it ought to have recurred after conception has taken place, and conception may in the greater number of instances have taken place at any period of the interval. In a very few cases only have we any means of determining the time of concep- tion, and in still fewer instances has there been an opportunity of examining the uterus in situ at an early period after conception when the period of sexual intercourse was known. In by far the greater number of instances, there- f e, there may be an error in the calculation of ten days or a fortnight. It is by no means rare to see specimens of the human ovum or foetus in anatomical col- lections marked as being a fortnight or three or four weeks old ; but it is now generally ac- knowledged that the greater number of these are incorrectly marked. We have seen, however, more than one such ovum, which, both from the history of the cases and from the structure and size of the parts of the ovum and foetus, we should be inclined to consider as dating between three and four weeks after concep- tion.* once burst it is impossible to recognize any parts of the ovum, frequently in instances where we are certain it has existed. Baer in a second epistle (published in Breschet's Repertoire, vol. viii. p. 175) mentions these difficulties of mani- pulation in extracting the ova from the gravid uterus of the dog during the early periods, and advises that, on account of the violent contrac- tions which are apt to ensue in the uterus from its exposure to the air, the animals should not be opened, but left perfectly quiet for eight or twelve hours or more after death. We have fre- quently pursued this plan advantageously in the rabbit and cat; and have even found it neces- sary to harden the ovum and uterus in alcohol beiore being able to extract the former. The same circumstances may account for our never finding the ovum of the sheep before the seventeenth day, for those we examined were all killed at the market, and consequently opened immediately after death while the contractility still remained in the uterus. At earlier periods we have in fact frequently found shreds of membrane, and some of the earliest ova which we found were partly destroyed; but in a very short time afterwards the membranes of the egg and parts of the foetus acquire sufficient con- sistence to resist the pressure. * So common in museums are the specimens of blighted ova which are considered as examples of very early date, that the author confines himself here to the mention of those which he has himself seen, making this general remark, that in all those specimens below the alleged age of six or seven weeks, in which the foetus and membranes, parti- cularly the amnion, are disproportionate in size, that is, the first very small and the latter large, There are some who describe the human fcetus at less than a fortnight old, and even as early as the eighth day, as in the well-known and often-quoted example described by Sir E. Home. But there is some reason to think that Sir E. Home was mistaken in the case alluded to. Either, supposing that conception had occurred eight days before death, the body in question was not the fcetus, or if it Was the fcetus, it must have been considerably older than he supposed. The earliest example of the human ovum with which we are acquainted is that mentioned by M. Velpeau in his work sur t' Embryologie Humaine; which, if he was not deceived by the person who gave it to him, he had the best reason to believe was discharged on the four- teenth day after sexual intercourse. This ovum, the description and drawings of which are very meagre, is described as about the size of a pea; the fcetus was already some- what formed, though very small; and all points of structure in the fcetus and ovum appear to us (so far as we can judge from the description) to correspond with one another, and to shew that the product was quite natural. This ovum from its size and from the state of advancement of the foetus must have been in the uterus at least two or three days. We possess also the recent record of two valuable observations made on the structure of the gravid uterus of females dying suddenly eight days after sexual intercourse ; the one by Weber, the other by Professor Baer. No ovum was detected in either of these instances either in the uterus or tubes. We feel inclined to place much reliance on these two observations as being made by persons well acquainted with the various circumstances necessary to be at- tended to in such a delicate investigation, and with all the advantages of recent knowledge, and though they afford negative evidence only, yet we are disposed to found upon them as proofs that at the eighth day the ovum has not descended into the uterus. On comparing the degree of advancement of the fcetus in the ovum described by Velpeau and in others with that of the fcetus in the dog, cat, and sheep, at known periods, we would hazard the opinion that the human ovum arrives in the uterus on the eleventh or twelfth day after conception. Valentin thinks the twelfth or four- teenth day, but we are inclined to believe that it cannot be much later than in the dog. Change of the uterus after conception.— Before the arrival of the ovum in the uterus, a change has already taken place in the interior of that organ preparatory to the reception of the fcetus. An exudation of a substance having many of the characters of organizable lymph then the product is unnatural, and we ought to judge of its age more by the extent of the mem- branes than by the size of the foetus. We feel inclined to believe that some of the views adopted by Dr. Pockels of Brunswick, in his interesting paper on the early structure of the human ovum and fcetus (to the consideration of which we shall return in the article OVUM), are founded upon the examination of unnatural specimens.