147 EXCRETION. villi of the placenta, observes: our vessels are simple; they bend themselves at the end, but do not return to their trunk as a loop, being simply blood-containing processes of the ar- teries which project freely into the cellular cavities of the veins of the corpora cavernosa. These vessels are most numerous in the pos- terior part of the corpora cavernosa; they occur but seldom in the middle and anterior parts: they are also present in the corpus spongiosum urethra, especially in the bulb; here also they become less frequent anteriorly, and as yet they have not been perceived in the glans. They are much more difficult of detection in the corpus spongiosum urethra than in the corpora cavernosa, where they are very easily exhibited, especially in the human penis. In no other animal have they been found so dis- tinct, or so uniform in their existence as in man. The greater development of these arteries, adds Professor Miiller, in the posterior parts of the organ corresponds with the fact of erection being always earlier evident there, as if the blood distributed itself from thence into the venous cells. During erection blood is accumulated in large quantity in the erectile tissue, but the cause and mechanism of this accumulation are but imperfectly known. Hebenstreit ascribes it to a living power, named turgor vitalis, which exists in different degrees in almost all the textures of the animal body, but most dis- tinctly in the erectile tissue. It still remains, however, to be proved how far erection de- pends on mechanical pressure affecting the veins which convey blood from this structure, and consequent retardation of the venous circu- lation ; and how far it may depend upon an increased flow of blood to its arteries accompa- nied, or perhaps more correctly, occasioned by an increase of sensibility,* or whether it may not depend upon the influence of both these causes combined. • Erectile tissue appears sometimes to be de- veloped as a morbid production, which has been described under the names of varicose tumour, aneurism by anastomosis, na?vus ma- ternus, telangiectasis, &c. Its anatomical cha- racters are of the same kind as those of the [* It must be obvious that the discovery of the arterial lielicince by Professor Miiller favours this theory of erection, as proving the existence of ves- sels distinct from the ordinary ones, which receive and transmit the increased supply of blood to the venous cells. What, in other organs, is effected by a diminished tonicity in the arteries, and a con- sequent enlargement of them, ultimately giving rise to the tortuosity so striking in some cases, is here effected by means of a very peculiar set of arterial processes superadded to the ordinary nutri- tious arteries of the organ. In the pregnant uterus the increased supply of blood is provided for by the enlargement and consequent tortuosity of its ordi- nary arteries ; there are no sinuous veins here to receive the new supply of blood, and consequently erection is not present; but in the case of the penis this phenomenon occurs in consequence of the existence of the sinuous veins which constitute so large a proportion of the corpora cavernosa. It will be interesting to inquire whether any similar or analogous arrangement of arterial processes exists in other erectile organs.—Ed.] normal erectile tissue; it varies in size, being more or less circumscribed, sometimes sur- rounded by a thin fibrous envelope; presenting internally an appearance of cells or spongy cavities, but consisting, in reality, of an in- extricable congeries of arteries and veins which communicate by innumerable anastomoses like capillary vessels, but much larger, espe- cially the veins. It is difficult to inject it from the arteries, more easy from the neighbouring veins, which are sometimes much enlarged. This alteration most commonly exists in the substance of the skin, where it sometimes re- sembles the comb and other analogous parts of the gallinaceae. The skin of the face, espe- cially that of the lips, is frequently its seat. It has been observed in the subcutaneous cel- lular tissue in masses of various dimensions, sometimes so large as to occupy an entire limb. It rarely affects the internal organs; sometimes it extends beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth, mostly in the vicinity of the red borders of the lips. This production is occa- sionally affected by a vibratory motion amount- ing sometimes to a pulsation resembling that of ananeurismal tumour, which is increased by all the causes which excite the activity of the general circulation ; it cannot be properly said that this structure has the property of under- going erection. It is often congenital, some- times it appears to have been produced by accidental causes; it sometimes remains un- altered ; but it more usually continues to in- crease in size until some of its cavities burst, when hemorrhage of a troublesome description ensues. Beclard considers the hemorrhoidal tumours which occur round the anus as constituting a variety of anormal erectile tissue. Bibliography. — Vesalius de corp. hnmani fabrica, lib. v. cap. xiv. Venet. 1564. De Grauf Regner, De virorum organis, &c. p. 99 et seq. Lugd. Bat. 1668. Malpighi Marcelli opera, omnia, torn. ii. p. 221. London, 1686. Rui/sch FHd., Observatio, C. Amstel. 1691. Haller, Ele- menta, lib. ii. sect. i. §24, et lib. xxvii. sect. iii. 4 10. Mascagni, Prodromo della grande anatomia, Firenze, 1819. Hunter John, On certain parts of the animal economy, Lond. 1786. Moreschi Alex. Comment, de urethras corporis glandisque structura, Mediolani, 1817. Duvernay, in comment. Petro- polit. torn. ii. p. 200. Cuvier, Lecons d'anatomie comparee, torn. iv. Paris, 1799—1805. Tiedemtinn, in Journal complementaire, torn. iv. p. 282. Hebenstreit, G. De turgore vitali in Brera Sylloge, torn. ii. Duverney, (Euvres anatomiques, torn. ii. Paris, 1761. Mascagni, P. Hist, vasorum lymphat. sect. ii. Scnis, 1787. Beclard, Anat. generate, Paris, 1823. Weber, H. E. Allgemeine anatomie, p. 415. Braunschweig, 1830. Craigie David, M.D. Elements of general and pathological anatomy, Edin. 1828. Miiller, in Archiv fiir Physiologic, Jahr 1835, p. 202. The paper of Professor Miiller has been very ably translaied in the London Me- dical Gazette, No. 423. (J. Hart.) EXCRETION.—This term is applied to the formation of those fluids in the animal economy, which are destined to no useful purpose in the system, but are intended to be discharged from it, and the retention of which is injurious or