FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. 301 regard to the nerve generally and its superior maxillary branch in particular, in the year 1821, has been stated ; in his communication to the Royal Society in 1823, he adds, " all the nerves, without a single exception, which bestow sensibility from the top of the head to the toe have ganglia on their roots; and those which have no ganglia are not nerves of sensation, but are for the purpose of or- dering the muscular frame:" from this, when applied to the fifth nerve, it might be inferred that sensation depended upon its ganglionic, and muscular action upon its non-ganglionic portion. But between the years 1821 and 1823 additions had been made by others to the knowledge of the functions of the fifth nerve which require notice. It is to be borne in mind that Bell inferred from his first ex- periment, published in 1821, that the superior maxillary nerve is one both of sensation and voluntary motion to the lips (see the preceding page): to this conclusion Magendie was the first to object, for in the Journal of Physiology for October of the same year (1821), he says, " we have repeated these experiments along with Messrs. Shaw and Dupuy, and the result which we have obtained agrees perfectly with that which we have just related, with the ex- ception always of the influence of the section of the infra-orbital upon mastication, an in- fluence which I have never been able to perceive." In August 1822 Mayo published, in his Com- mentaries, his " experiments to determine the influence of the portio dura of the seventh, and of the facial branches of the fifth pair of nerves." Those relating to the latter point, which have been already alluded to, are as follow. 1. The infra-orbital and inferior max- illary branches of the fifth were divided on either side, where they emerge from their re- spective canals; the lips did not lose their tone or customary apposition to each other and to the teeth ; but their sensibility seemed destroyed : when oats were offered it, the animal pressed its lips against the vessel which contained the food, and finally raised the latter with its tongue and teeth. On pinching with a forceps the extremities nearest the lips of the divided nerves, no movement whatever of the lips ensued : on pinching the opposite extremities of the nerves, the animal struggled violently, as at the moment of dividing the nerves. Some days afterwards, though the animal did not raise its food with its lips, the latter seemed to be moved during mastica- tion by their own muscles." 2. " Some days after, the frontal nerve was divided on one side of the forehead of the same ass, when the neighbouring surface appeared to have lost sensation, but its muscles were not paralysed." 4, 5, and 6. The branch of the fifth, that joins the portio dura, was divided on either side : in the fourth experi- ment, the under lip at first appeared to fall away from the teeth; at times the lips were just closed: in the fifth and sixth, the under lip did not hang down, and no difference was observed between the action of the muscles of either side; but, he observes in a later publi- cation, " the cheek loses sensation upon its division." The results of these experiments, while they confirm fully the inference drawn by Bell with regard to the influence of the nerve over sensation, are altogether at variance with that of his experiment relating to the con- trol of the superior maxillary nerve over mus- cular motion, and are equally incompatible with the doctrine that the branches of the nerve., which were the subjects of experiment, have any direct connexion with muscular contrac- tion ; for while, on the one hand, the division of the nerves was followed by total loss of sensibility in the lips, on the other, the latter did not fall away either from each other or from the teeth, nor did irritation of the portions of the nerves connected with the lips excite any movement whatever of those parts, but they seemed afterwards to be moved during mastication by their own muscles. Mayo in- ferred accordingly from his experiments, " that the frontal, infra-orbital, and inferior maxillary are nerves of sensation only, to which office that branch of the fifth which joins the portio dura probably contributes." A circumstance in the first experiment doubtless seems at variance with the conclusion which Mayo has drawn, and demands consideration here, be- cause, unless unexplained, the fact is inconsis- tent with the inference. It has been stated that both in Bell's and Mayo's experiment, the animal ceased to take up its food with its lips after the division of the facial branches of the fifth, and from that circumstance chiefly the former appears to have inferred that the motions of the lips in eating depended on these nerves ; but the inference is objected to by Mayo as " a theoretical account of the fact that the animal did not elevate and project its lip ; this fact," he says, " was noticed in my own expe- riments, but appeared to me from the first equally consistent with the hypothesis, that the lip had merely lost its sensibility, as with Mr. Bell's explanation," that it had lost its muscu- lar power. The fact may be obviously ex- plained by either of the two suppositions, and it is very remarkable that it should occur equally in one case as in the other. In the one, the muscles of the lips having been de- prived of their power of voluntary contraction, the lips themselves cannot, of course, be made use of to take hold of an object; and in the other, the animal not being made aware of the contact of the food in consequence of the loss of sensation, volition is not exerted, nor are the muscles called into action in order to take hold of it. To the latter cause it is attributed by Mayo, after the division of the branches of the fifth, and he confirms this view of its pro- duction by reference to the effect of anaesthesia in the human subject: " in that disease the sensation of the extremities is wholly lost, while their muscular power remains. Now it is remarkable that in persons thus affected the muscles of the insensible part can only be exerted efficiently when another sense is em- ployed to guide them, and to supply the place of that which has been lost: a person afflicted with anaesthesia is described in a case quoted