INSECTA. 974 have seen in the recently detached vessel of Vanessa urtica ; and lastly of a third portion, which consists of a minute vessel, extended from the apparently coecal extremity of the middle portion of the organ, as formerly shewn also by Lyonet in the Cossus. In the perfect insect these parts still exist, but very much reduced in size. In the Cossus Lyonet has shewn four of these vessels, two of which, the proper silk vessels, open by a single excretory duct, and the others separately into the cavity of the mouth. In some Coleoptera, as in the Blapsidce, these organs are formed of many ramifying tubes united on each side of the oesophagus into a single duct. In others, as in the Orthoptera and Hymenoptera, they con- sist of an immense number of rounded, opaque, glandular bodies, aggregated together in small clusters, which communicate by many small ducts, inserted at irregular distances, with a large and partially convoluted common or ex- cretory duct, that opens on each side of the mouth, so that each of these collections of glands resembles a bunch of grapes or currants. Each of these rounded granules, or acini if we may so call them, receive a minute vessel, but whether this is distributed over its surface or is received directly into its substance we have been unable to ascertain. These aggre- gations of salivary glands are usually situated on each side beneath the oesophagus in the pro- thorax, and are very distinct in the Orthoptera and Hymenoptera, in which they have been often noticed. Muller has seen them in Phasma, Treviranus in Apis, Burmeister in Locustida, Grt/llidte, and Termes, and we have also seen them in Locustidce and Gryllida among the Orthoptera, and in Bombus, Apis, Ant/io- phora, and Athalia among the Hymenoptera. Their existence in the latter genus is somewhat interesting from the circumstance that the large quantity of salivary fluid which these organs seem calculated to produce appears to be entirely employed in moistening the dry pollen of flowers upon which the perfect insect chiefly subsists, before it is passed into the oesophagus, and not in the habits or in constructing of a nest, as is the case with the bee, which always employs it as a solvent for the wax in the con- struction of its combs. In the latter insect, according to Burmeister, the evacuating duct of these organs is a minute spiral vessel re- sembling a trachea, and empties itself into the tube of the proboscis or ligula. The form and number of these salivary organs varies in the different classes; the usual number is two, but in Apis Cimex and Palex there are four, each pair of which unite into one duct, while in JVepa there are as many as six.* In the Tabanida there are only two short ccecal tubes, into which many minute vessels empty them- selves.! Those gastric vessels, which are in- serted at the commencement of the digestive stomach we have above stated have been re- garded as salivary organs, but there is consi- derable doubt respecting their real function. Burmeister considers them to be analogous to the pancreas, but if this be admitted to be the case in the Orthoptera, those vessels also which cover the exterior of the digestive stomach in the carnivorous Coleoptera must be of the same description, since both empty themselves into the digestive stomach. But we cannot coincide with him in this opinion, since from an experiment which we shall presently notice there is reason to believe that the fluid poured into that cavity during digestion is of an acid nature, analogous to that which is found under similar circumstances in the stomach of ver- tebrata; while that of the proper salivary organs is believed to be alkaline, as was for- merly supposed by Rengger. Treviranus also believed the same of the saliva of the honey- bee, having witnessed its employment by this insect in the formation of its combs. We have also seen this insect reduce the perfectly trans- parent thin white scale of newly secreted wax to a pasty or soapy consistence, by kneading it between its mandibles, and mixing it with a fluid from its mouth, before applying it to assist in the formation of part of a new cell, so that we have good reason to believe that ihe salivary fluid thus employed asa solvent for the otherwise brittle wax is of an alkaline quality. The Malpighian or supposed biliary vessels (Jig- 432, p) usually enter the canal, as we have seen, at the pylorus. They vary greatly in number from two to twenty or even a hun- dred, as in some of the Orthoptera and Hymen- optera, but in all insects their function appears to be similar. They are usually from four to six in number, and are very long tubes that pass from their insertion or opening into the canal behind the pylorus directly forwards about half way along the sides of the stomach, and are then reflected backwards as far as the ilium, around which and the colon they make many convolutions, and in the Lepidoptera terminate, or perhaps we ought rather to say originate, each in a minute vessel, which be- comes smaller and smaller in proportion to its length, and in which we can perceive no dis- position to form a coecal termination, although we have been unable to trace it to its origin, which is certainly in the vicinity of the posterior part of the colon. Of this we have satisfied ourselves by following these vessels in the larva of Odonestis potatoria, which the colour of their contents, an opaque bright yellow, has rendered practicable. We have traced them until the yellow colour has disappeared in an opaque white, and this has been also lost in a perfectly transparent fluid, after which we have been unable to follow the vessels further. In other insects they appear to end in coecal ex- tremities, but we certainly could not observe this in the larvae of Lepidoptera. It has also been supposed by some anatomists that these vessels form a double communication with the alimentary canal, but this has entirely escaped our observation. In the larva of Sphinx ligustri and most other Lepidoptera these vessels are covered by an immense number of minute oval coeciform dilatations (fig. 432, a), as is also the case in some of the perfect Coleoptera, Mclolontha* as shown by Dufour, Straus Burmeister, op. cit. p. 146. t Id. 145. * See Animal Kingdom, vol. i. fig. 38, c.