INSECTA. 989 amounts to even fifteen or twenty degrees. In all cases the amount of temperature depends chiefly upon the quantity of respiration. We have seen that in a state of repose the acts of respiration become less and less frequent, and that at last they are scarcely perceptible. In like manner the amount of heat generated is proportionate to the diminished number of respirations, and continues to be lessened until the temperature of the insect has very nearly sunk down to a level with that of the atmo- sphere. There are also other circumstances which moderate the production of heat. When the insect is fasting less heat is generated, even during a state of activity, than when the insect is not deprived of its proper quantity of food. The cause of this deficiency seems readily to be accounted for on the consideration that no new material, the product of digestion, is taken into the general circulation, and requires to be assi- milated with the circulatory fluids, and, conse- quently, there is less change in the chemical condition of the fluids at each respiration, than when the animal is taking its full amount of food. Other circumstances also tend to regu- late the amount of heat. When the insect is respiring rapidly, the power and frequency of its circulation are augmented, and not only is there a greater quantity of gaseous expenditure from the respiratory organs, but there is also a greater amount of cutaneous expenditure, which tends to cool down the insect by evaporation from the surface of its body, and diminish the amount of heat developed. This expenditure is so enormous, as we have elsewhere shown,* that it is more than equal to the quantity of solid matter excreted from the alimentary canal in a given time, and, consequently, is a power- ful means of reducing the temperature of the insect. One very marked difference which ex- ists, in respect to the function of respiration and the evolution of heat, between these air-breath- ing invertebrate and the vertebrated animals is, not in their different powers of generating, but of maintaining their temperature. Insects in their low power of maintaining heat closely resemble the true hybernating animals. Any great or sudden change of temperature in the surrounding medium rapidly reduces the tem- perature of the insect. It is thus seen that a reduction of temperature takes place not only at the period of true hybernation, which insects undergo either in their pupa or perfect state, but also during vicissitudes of the season, as well as during natural repose. On the other hand, it is remarkable that the evolution of heat in insects takes place as rapidly as it becomes reduced. Its increase is perceptible by the thermometer within a very few moments after the insect has begun to respire more rapidly. The explanation of this circumstance must be sought for in the peculiar distribution of the respiratory organs, which are extended over the whole body, and aerate the blood in every part of it at the same instant, the result of which is the immediate evolution of a large amount of heat, from the changes that occur in the fluids * Phil. Trans. 1837, p. 2. in vessels that partake both of the venous and arterial character. Consequently a large amount of heat is liberated instantaneously, whether the oxygen of the atmosphere be ab- sorbed into the circulatory system, or whether the whole of the changes take place, and car- bonic acid be formed in the respiratory struc- tures. The same rapidity with which the heat is evolved from the body accompanies its dimir nution when the quantity of air inspired is lessened. In confirmation of this view with regard to the production of heat being the result of the chemical changes in the air inspired, there is one remarkable circumstance that can- not be passed over. It is the voluntary power which we have found is possessed by some species of generating heat by means of accelera- ting their respiration. We observed this fact in the individuals of a nest of Humble-bees, Bom- bus terrestris, which were confined by us for the purpose of watching their habits. Huber formerly noticed that bees are in the habit of incubating on the cells of their pupa;, before the perfect insects are developed, and we have had ample opportunities of confirming his observa- tions. It was during the time that we were engaged in watching these habits that we dis- covered that bees possess this voluntary power of increasing their temperature. The manner in which the bee performs her incubatory office is by placing herself upon the cell of a nymph that is soon to be developed, and then begin- ning to respire at first very gradually. In a short time the respirations become more and more frequent, until at length they are increased to one hundred and twenty or one hundred and thirty per minute. The body of the insect soon becomes of a high temperature, and on close inspection is often found to be bathed with perspiration. When this is the case the temperature of the insect soon becomes re- duced, and the insect leaves the cell, and ano- ther bee almost immediately takes her place. When respiration is performed less violently, and consequently less heat is evolved, the same bee will often continue on a cell for many hours in succession. During these observations we have, in some instances, found the temperature of a single bee exceed that of the atmosphere more than twenty degrees. Thus when the temperature of the atmosphere was 73° 5 Fahr. that of four female bees, in the act of incuba- tion, was 94° 1. On another occasion when the atmosphere was 72° 5, a single bee, nursing on a single cell, from which a per- fect insect was developed about eight hours afterwards, afforded a temperature of 92° 3, the bulb of the thermometer being placed between the abdomen of the bee and the cell. The insect was then breathing at the rate of one hundred and twenty respirations per minute. In another instance, the temperature of the atmosphere being the same, that of ano- ther bee in the act of nursing was 94° 5. This extreme amount of heat was evolved en- tirely by an act of the will in accelerating the respiratory efforts, a strong indication of the re- lation which subsists between the function of respiration and the development of animal