EYE. 190 the retina appears to be forced or drawn at tins point into the vitreous humour to the depth of about a twelfth of an inch, the entire fold being something more than an eighth in length. At first there is little or no appearance of a hole, but after the eye has remained for some time in the water, the fold begins to give way, and a small slit makes its appearance, which gradually widens, and assumes the appearance of a round hole. This hole is large in pro- portion to the degree to which the fold has yielded ; and when the fold totally disappears, as it sometimes does, the transparent point gives the appearance which Sommerring re- presents, of a hole with a yellow margin. If, instead of making the examination in this way from the outside, we view this part through the vitreous humour, the appearance of the hole is more remarkable ; but still that part of the retina is evidently projected forward be- yond the level of the rest of that membrane. In the eye of a young man, which I had an opportunity of examining under peculiarly favourable circumstances, within five hours after death, I noticed the following appear- ances. The cornea and iris having been cut away, and the lens removed from its situation, I placed the part in water, beneath one of the globular glasses, and held it so as to allow the strong light of a mid-day sun to fall directly upon it; when the retina to the outside of the optic nerve presented unequivocally the ap- pearance of being drawn or folded into the form of a cross or star, with a dark speck in the centre, surrounded by a pale yellow areola. I further satisfied myself of the prominence of the fold by holding a needle opposite to it, while the light shone full upon it, a shadow being thus cast upon the retina which deviated from the straight line when passed over the situation of the fold. To ascertain whether there is actually a hole in the retina, or merely a deficiency of nervous matter at this point, 1 allowed the eye to remain for some days in water, until the connexions of the parts began to give way. I then introduced a small probe between the retina and vitreous humour, the part still remaining in water, and bringing the blunt point of the instrument opposite the transparent spot, attempted to pass it through, but found I could not do so without force sufficient to tear the membrane. I also re- moved the nervous matter by maceration and agitation in water, and on floating the vascular layer, found that I could no longer ascertain where the spot had originally existed, there being no hole in the situation previously occu- pied by the transparent speck." It is remarkable that the foramen of Sommer- ring has not been found in the eyes of any of the mammalia except those of the quudrumanu, in some of whom it lias been detected by Home, Cuvier, and others, but the extent to which it may be traced in this tribe has not been satis- factorily ascertained. Dr. Knox, in a paper in the Memoirs of the Wernerian Natural History Society, announces the discovery of its existence in certain lizards. In the lacerta superciliosa he says, " the retina is very thick, and somewhat firm and opaque. Where the optic nerve enters the interior of the eye-ball, there is a distinct marsupium or black circular body, proceeding- forwards apparently through the centre of the vitreous humour. Anteriorly, somewhat supe- riorly and towards the mesial line or plane, we perceive, on looking over the surface of the retina which regards the vitreous humour, a comparatively large transparent, nearly circular spot, through which may be distinguished the dark-coloured choroid. Close to this is gene- rally placed a fold or reduplication of the retina, which is in general remarkably distinct. This fold or folds, (for there are more than one) either proceed from the transparent point towards the insertion of the optic nerve, or close to it. Sometimes the fold seems, as it were, to lie over the transparent point, and partly to conceal it from view ; or the point is formed in the edge of the fold itself, as in apes, but in general the fold runs directly from the insertion of the optic nerve upwards and inwards, pressing very close to the edge of the foramen centrale." The foramen was also seen in the lacerta striata, lacerta calotes, and others, while it was not to be detected in the gecko, crocodile, and some others. It was also subsequently discovered in the chameleon. The annexed figures represent the foramen of Sommerring in the human eye. A, shews the retina expanded over the vitreous humour : on the right is the place from which the optic nerve was cut away, and from which the ves- sels branch out: on the left is \he foramen of Sommerring, represented by a black dot sur- rounded by a dark shade. B, shews the retina with a portion of the optic nerve. The exter- nal membrane is turned down as in the pre- ceding representation of the same structure in the sheep's eye, and the foramen of Sommer- ring, instead of a distinct hole, presents the appearance of a fold or depression with elevated sides. The wood-engraving does not admit of the delicacy of finish necessary to express per- fectly this condition of the part. Fig.WA. A. B. There is no part of the anatomy of the eye respecting which there has been so much diver- sity of opinion as the anterior termination of the retina. It has already been stated that it extends to the posterior extremities of the ciliary processes, where it is discontinued, pre- senting an undulating edge corresponding to the indented margin of this part of the corpus ciliare. Some assert that it extends to the mar- gin of the lens, others that it is the vascular