31 ECIIINODERMATA. downwards and surrounding the ven- tral disk. Border of the mouth formed by a prominent membranous tube. Genus 5. Encrinus. Body supported on a jointed stem. (With one ex- ception the species are all fossil.) Order II. EC HI JS IDA. Body globular or ovoid, without rays ; skin containing a calcareous shell; anus distinct. a. liegularia. Mouth and anus diametri- cally opposite in the centre of the ventral and dorsal surface respectively. Genus 1. Echinus, (figs. 33 vol. i. 10-19.) Genus 2. Cidarites. b. Mesostoma. Mouth in the centre, anus eccentric. Genus r Anus on the ventral surface or the border. 3. Galerites. 4. EciIINONEUS. f Rows of feet [ extending J from the anus * to the inferior opening of the shell. 8. Cassidulus. 9. NuCLEOLITES. Rows of feet not extending ►to the inferior opening of the shell. Mouth and anus both ec- 5. Scutella. 6. Clypeaster, „ 7.Fibularia. Anus above the border dorsal. c. Plagyostoma. centric. Genus 10. Ananchites. Genus 11. Spatangus. Order III. HO LOTH U RIM. Body oblong, (fig. 34 vol. i.) coriaceous, with the anus (k) and mouth (a) at its opposite extremities. Mouth surrounded with retrac- tile, branched tentacula (o). Organ of re- spiration a ramified tube (fi,.f,,f), placed within the body and opening at the anus. Genus. Holothuria. (Jig. 34 p. 109, vol. i. and Jig. 20.) The genera Asterias, Echinus, and Holo- thuria are those in which the internal struc- ture has been most frequently and fully inves- tigated ; they are therefore usually selected as the leading examples in anatomical descriptions of the Echinodermata, the peculiarities of other genera being mentioned in so far as they have been satisfactorily ascertained, and are of suffi- cient importance to demand special notice. 1. Integuments.—An incision made through the tough skin of the star-fish or shell of the sea-urchin, lays open the internal cavity of the body in which the viscera lie; so that in these animals the integuments in a great mea- sure constitute the parietes of the body, there being little else except the peritoneum or lining membrane of the visceral cavity which is spread over their internal surface. In the Holothuria there are muscles of considerable thickness be- neath the skin. The integuments of the former animals contain imbedded pieces of calcareous substance, which constitute a kind of cutaneous skeleton. In the latter there is merely a calca- reous ring surrounding the mouth. a In the Asterias the integuments consist of, 1st, a tough coriaceous membrane, with por- tions of calcareous substance imbedded in it, or at least connected by it; 2d, a softer external membrane; 3d, various appendages. The calcareous pieces form inferiorly a ring round the mouth and a series of transverse segments (from a to A,Jig.7; C, fig. 22,) placed in succes- F)g. 7. Inferior view of Asterias rubens: at A part of the feet ts removed. sion along the floor of each ray. The first of these segments is connected with the ring; they de- crease in size as they approach the point or distal end of the ray, and openings are left between them for the passage of the feet. In the Asterias rubens, which has five rays, the central ring consists of ten larger and five smaller pieces, the former disposed in pairs opposite the commencement of the rays, the latter corresponding to the angles between the rays. The segments of the rays are symme- trical ; in the species mentioned they consist of two oblong pieces {a, Jig. 8), united in the Fig. 8. Section of a ray of Asterias rubens, showing the arrangement of the calcareous pieces.