GLUTEAL REGION. 502 the posterior fibres of which are covered by the gluteus maximus. These anterior fibres have a different action, varying in the different posi- tions of the body in relation to the thigh, and, according to this, consisting either in rotation inwards, abduction, or flexion of the femur, or, this bone being fixed, assisting in the various anterior movements of the pelvis upon the thigh. At the posterior edge of the middle gluteus is the pynformis coming out of the upper open- ing of the sciatic notch. Here, as we have seen, the gluteal artery is also emerging from the pelvis and winding round the upper edge of the notch. This, therefore, will be the situa- tion of an aneurism of this artery, and a pul- sating tumour being detected in the situation just indicated by measure, as the seat of this vessel, will be a very strong ground for deciding both as to the disease and the vessel diseased. A case lately came under our notice of a very obscure character in which a swelling was situated precisely, in the position of the gluteal artery, but without pulsation or any other sym- ptom of aneurism. The swelling was at first indistinct, but as the surrounding parts wasted under the effect of disease it became more pro- minent. It was firm to the touch and rather moveable, and about the size of a hen's egg. But the principal part of the disease showed itself within the pelvis in a tumour consisting almost entirely of coagulum, as was proved by puncture, situated behind the rectum, and pressing it forward so as to occupy nearly the whole pelvis, and obstructing the passage both of faeces and urine. As there was no decided symptom of aneurism no operation was at- tempted for the relief of the case, and as the girl, who is eighteen years of age, still lingers, the nature of the disease is not yet cleared up. But this part also occasionally gives exit to a hernial tumour, part of the intestines or even the bladder or ovary becoming thus displaced and being lodged in the sac* The superior opening of the sciatic notch is bounded above by the notch of the ilium, before by the de- scending ramus of the ischium, and below and behind by the superior sacro-sciatic ligament; and so large is the opening thus left that we might expect to find the protrusion of some of the viscera of the pelvis much more frequently than we do. Yet so completely is this part covered and defended by the pyriform muscle, the plexus of nerves, the glutei maximus and medius, that this form of hernia is an extremely rare occurrence. When it does occur in the adult, the diagnosis is very difficult while the hernia is small, owing to the great depth at which it is situated. When, however, it is congenital, the nature of the swelling is larger in proportion to the size of the surrounding parts, and the depth of the superjacent parts less ; yet even here Professor Schreger did not at first detect the nature of the swelling. In fact nothing but the actual feeling of the guggling of the gas of the intestines under the finger seems sufficient * See a summary of cases of ischiatic hernia in Cooper's Fint Lines of Surgery. to discriminate the case, and this is of course not to be expected when the gut is strangulated. Indeed, in Dr. Jones's case* the symptoms were not at all referred by the patient to the true seat of the disease, and the surgeon was in consequence never led to make any external examination of this part. It may be well to state here the anatomical relations of the hernial sac in this case, which was carefully dissected. " A small orifice in the side of the pelvis, anterior to but a little above the sciatic nerve and on the fore part of the pyriformis muscle, led into a bag situated under the gluteus maxi- mus muscle, and this was the hernial sac, in which the portion of intestine had been stran- gulated. The cellular membrane which con- nects the sciatic nerve to the surrounding parts of the ischiatic notch had yielded to the pres- sure of the peritoneum and viscera. The orifice of the hernial sac was placed anterior to the internal iliac artery and vein, below the obtura- tor artery and above the obturator vein. Its neck was situated anterior to the sciatic nerve, and its fundus, which was on the outer part of the pelvis, was covered by the gluteus maxi- mus. Anterior to but a little below the fundus of the sac, was situated the sciatic nerve, behind it the gluteal artery. Above, it was placed near the bone, and below appeared the muscles and ligaments of the pelvis." We must not conclude this article without a few words on the general form of the gluteal region as affording an important means of diagnosis in disease. In examining this re- gion in a healthy person we observe, 1st, the thick rounded prominence of the nates, formed by the posterior and inferior margin of the gluteus maximus; 2d, the projection of the trochanter major, only covered by the integu- ments and the thin tendon of the last-named muscle; 3d, the projection of the crista ilii7 forming the upper boundary of the region; 4th, a depression, perpendicular in direction, between the nates and the trochanter major; 5th, another depression, slighter than the last and transverse in direction, between the tro- chanter and crista ilii. Now almost all these points become altered in character and relation in disease. In dislo- cation of the femur they of course are changed by the difference in position which the trochan- ter assumes in common with the head of the bone ; and according to the unnatural situation which this occupies, so will the alteration in the general form of the parts be modified. But we now speak particularly of the changes of disease. Even in the inflammatory stage of disease of the hip-joint, it is surprising how great is the effect produced upon the nates. The roundness and fulness gradually go, the nates looks wasted, and the depression between this and the trochanter disappears. This wast- ing, arising from interstitial absorption of the gluteus and parts adjacent, is the more striking as it occurs too rapidly upon the affection of the joint to be the effect of inaction of the * See Sir A. Cooper on Hernia, part ii. p. 67.