INSECTA. 993 Fig. 439. Female organs of generation of Athalia centifoliae. ( Prize Essay.) also absent between the bag and the base of the ovipositor, so that the fluid is forced directly from the bag at the moment it is employed. There is a somewhat similar structure in the Hornet, although the vessel between the bag and sting is present as in the bee. Burmeister has suggested that the poison-gland may per- haps be an urinary organ, but the circum- stance of the fluid contained in it being em- ployed by the insect to inject into the cavity iji which it deposits its ova, seems opposed to this opinion, although that of its being em- ployed by the bee as a means of defence may be favourable to it. The nature of this fluid is distinctly acid, as remarked by Dr. Bevan in the honey-bee, and as found by ourselves in several instances. The vaginal aperture at the base of the ovipositor forms the external orifice of the common oviduct or proper laying tube (e). This in some instances is simply a di- lated orifice, the internal lining of which is .continuous with that of the internal part of the ovipositor. This common oviduct is either a simple, straight, uniform tube, or in some in- stances is a little dilated laterally into pouches, in which are received the lateral appendages of the male organ, as in Melolontha. At its termination the common oviduct divides into or rather receives two separate tubes (d), one from each side, analogous to the eft'erential vessels of the male organs. On the upper surface of the common oviduct, there are appendages that vary in number from one to five. The chief of these, the spermatheca (f), alone exists in Athalia. It is into this sac that the fluid of the male is ejected during co- pulation. Audouin states that the male organ is projected into it. We have invariably found this vesicle, which is exceedingly large in Meloe, filled with white, opaque, seminal fluid after connexion with the male, previously to which time we have as invariably found this vesicle ^mpty. This appendage is simple in many ,of VOh, II. the Orthoptera as well as in Hymenoptera, but in some other species there are also additional vesicular appendages which have been de- scribed as secreting a glutinous fluid. In all in- stances these are attached to and pour their con- tents into the common oviduct, through which the eggs pass to be deposited. In the middle line, at the union of the oviducts, are situated the terminal ganglia of the nervous cord (10, 11), when the cord is extended to the posterior part of the abdomen. But when this is not the case, and the nerves simply radiate from the thorax into the abdomen, the terminal pair of nerves still pass in a corresponding direction over the union of the oviducts, thus always occupying a position between the organs of generation and the termination of the ali- mentary canal. From the two oviducts origi- nate the proper ovarial tubes. In Athalia cen- tifolia there are eighteen (a, b, c) attached to each oviduct, but in some other instances, as in Mel'ue, in which the upper part of the oviduct on each side is dilated into an im- mense bag resembling an uterus, they amount to some hundreds of exceedingly short tubes containing each but one or two ova. In Melo- lontha and Lucanus there are six on each side, but in some instances, as in Lixus, as shewn by Dufour,* there are only two on each side. These ovarial tubes gradually decrease in size from their base to their apex, and those from each side are collected together at their apices, and are said to terminate each in a dilated ccEcal extremity, but we must confess we have never yet traced this structure in any instance. Muller, as above stated, traced a connexion between the extremities and the ovarial tubes and the dorsal vessel in Phusma, and many other insects, as we have also done in several instances, but the nature of these connexions is disputed. They certainly appeared to us to be vascular, as supposed by Muller, and we have already stated the reasons that led us to the same opinion. We shall enter on a consideration of the function of the organs of generation when con- sidering this subject in Myriapoda. In concluding this lengthened article we have only further to remark that the tegumen- tary appendages consist of hair, scales, and spines. The first of these serves as a covering for the bodies of many species, more particu- larly the Hymenoptera, and is also found under the limbs in many Coleoptera. The scales are peculiar appendages and may be considered, according to many, as simply flat- tened hairs. They entirely cover the bodies of many species, as for instance the Lepidoptera. The curious forms and marking of these parts are sometimes exceedingly beautiful; but the limits of our article will not allow of our en- tering at present on the consideration of them. The spines are found much on the wing of Hy- menoptera and are often mistaken for true hairs, between which and spines, and also between « these and scales, there is a difference of origin, * Annales des Sciences Naturelles, torn. vi. pi. 20. 3 T