GASTEROPODA. 378 are hermaphrodite with reciprocal impregnation, and marine. 1st Sub-order, Phyllidiadce, Cuv. 1st Fam. Phyllidia, Jig. 175. 2d Sub-order, Semi-phyllidiada, Lam. 2d Fam. Gastroplax, Blainville. 3d Fam. Pieurobranchus, Cuv. Fig. 175. Order III. TECTIBRANCHIATA* (Cuv.) Syn. Chismobnmches, Blainville; Gust. Adelobranches,-\ Dumeril; Gast. P/iyllidiens and Laplysiens, Lamarck. In tins order the branchia? are placed upon the dorsal aspect of the body, but are pro- tected by a fold of the mantle which almost always contains a shell presenting a rudimen- tary spire. They are all hermaphrodite like the preceding, and marine. 1st Fam. Dikera. 2d Fam. Altera. Order IV. PULMONALIA INOPER- CULATA, (Ferussac ) Syn. Pulmones, Cuv.; J Pulmobr (inches, Blainville; Gast. Trac/ielipodes,§ Lamarck. The respiratory apparatus is here adapted to the respiration of atmospheric air, and instead of being composed of branchial tufts or la- minae, consists of a cavity lined by the rami- fications of the pulmonary vessels, the entrance to which can be opened or closed at the plea- sure of the animal. Almost all the species are provided with a shell either turbinated or concealed within the mantle, but are never furnished with a calcareous operculum. Every * Tectus, covered, f A$r,Xo;, concealed. | Pulmo, lungs. § Tpap^nXof, tlie neck ; nov;, foot. individual is hermaphrodite, but mutual copu- lation is essential to fertility. Some are terres- trial, others inhabit fresh water, and some are marine. 1st Sub-order, Geophilida,* Ferussac. 1st Fam. Limax. 2d Fam. Helix. 2d Sub-order, Gehydrophilida,\ Ferussac. 3d Fam. Auricula. 3d Sub-order, Hygrophilida?,l Ferussac. 4th Fam. Limneeus. Order V. PULMONALIA OPERCU- LATA, (Ferussac.) Syn. Pectinibranchiatajj Cuv.; Siphoni- branchiata,\\ Blain. The respiratory organs of the animals form- ing this order are similar in structure to those found in the last, but they differ materially in other points. In all the operculated division the shell is closed by a calcareous operculum not found in the last, and instead of that hermaphrodite condition of the sexual organs common to the inoperculated order, the sexes are distinct, the male and female parts existing in different individuals. They are all terres- trial. 1st Fam. Helicina. 2d Fam. Turbicina. Order VI. PEC TIN1 BRA NC HI A TA, (Cuv.) Syn. Trachelipodes, Lamarck ; Monopleuri- brunches, Blain.; Gast. Adelobranches and Siphonibranches, Dumeril. This extensive order, which comprises most of the univalve mollusks whose shells enrich our cabinets, is characterized by a respira- tory apparatus adapted to an aquatic medium. The branchise are pectinated, consisting of ranges of fringes disposed like the teeth of a comb, and generally enclosed in a dorsal cavity which opens externally at the side of the body or above the head. The shell is always turbi- nated, and sometimes provided with an oper- culum. The sexes are separate, and the ani- mals fluviatile or marine. 1st Sub-order, Pomastomidaft Ferussac; Chis- mobranches, Blainville. 1st Fam. Turbo, Lin. 2d Fam. Trochus, Lin. 2d Sub-order, Hemipomastomidte, Ferussac. 3d Fam. Cerithium, Adanson. 4th Fam. Buccinum, Lin. 5th Fam. Murex, Lin. 6th Fam. Strombus, Lin. 7th Fam. Conns, Lin. 3d Sub-order, Apomastomida, Ferussac. 8th Fam. 9th Fam. Volutu, Lin. 10th Fam. 4th Sub-order, Adelodermida, Ferussac. 11th Fam. Sigarelus, Adanson. * r», the earth ; $iXem, to love. f Vn, the earth; v$a>p, the water ; <J>iX£ft>. $ Typt;, moist; <J>iAe«. § Pecten, -inis, a comb. || 2icfa)v, a canal. % Ua>jA.a, operculum; <rroy.a, mouth.