ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE HAND. 516 ternally through the large circular apertures already mentioned. We have thought it right to detail this re- markable case at length, as it is the history of an important fact, from which, it is true, differ- ent conclusions may be drawn: for our part, we consider the case a well-marked specimen of a disease described by some of the older writers as spina ventosa. Boyer adopts this appella- tion, and in his work will be found a good account of the disease; and, indeed, he so accurately depicts the appearances we observed in this case, and which were discovered by dis- section, that we feel satisfied his description has been drawn from nature. Boyer says, " We understand by spina ventosa an affection of the cylindrical bones, in winch the walls of the medullary canal are subjected to a slow, gra- dual, but sometimes enormous, distension ; while, at the same time, they are considerably thinned, and even pierced in many points, in which their tissue undergoes a singular rarefac- faction,—a disease whose primitive seat would appear to reside in the medullary cavity," Sic. Sanson, from two careful dissections of recent specimens of this disease, considers it to origi- nate in a degeneration of the membrane which lines the interior of the bone. The substance which is found to fill up the cavity of the bone can only proceed from the system of the me- dullary membrane, the action of which becomes so altered and diseased, as to produce the new growth which is found in the interior of these globular tumours. This product distends by degrees the walls of the medullary canal and reticular structure of the bones. The dilatation, in which the articular surfaces do not partici- pate, is generally sudden, so that the part imme- diately near the point where the disease is situated preserves its natural dimensions When the globular tumours thus formed are cut into, in the early stage of the affection, their interior presents a fibro-cartilaginous appearance, sur- rounded by a thin shell of bone. A section of one of those tumours of the fingers in the early stage appears to us to present a striking resemblance to the common fibrous tumour of the uterus, which is often encased in a similar bony shell. The description Mr. Crampton has given of the structure of the benign osteo- sarcoma may well be applied to this disease. He says, " the interior of the tumour presents a great variety of structure, but I should say, in general, that the cartilaginous character which the tumour exhibits in its origin prevails to the last. In the early stages of the disease, the tumour consists of a dense elastic substance, resembling fibro-cartilaginous structure; but the resemblance is more in colour than in con- sistency, for it is not nearly so hard, and it is granular rather than fibrous, so that it breaks short. On cutting into the tumour, the edge of the knife grates against spiculse, or small grains of earthy matter with which the substance is beset. If the tumour acquires any considerable size, it is usually found to contain cavities filled with a fluid differing in colour and consistency ; but in general the fluid is thickish, inodorous, and of the colour of chocolate. Sometimes the growth of the tumour, and the secretion of the fluid within its substance, is so slow, that the deposition of bony matter keeping pace with the absorption, the bone becomes expanded into a large thick bony case, in which the tumour is completely enclosed."* Sti'innous osteitis of the metacarpal bones, and of the phalanges of the fingers.—It is by no means difficult to distinguish the disease last described under the name of spina ventosa, or benign osteo-sarcoma, from that enlargement of tiie metacarpal bones and of the fingers which we frequently witness in children of the strumous diathesis. The strumous affection of the pha- langes we allude to seems little else than an osteitis, which terminates usually either in caries or necrosis. The disease, when fully formed, shows itself in the shape of either a pyriform or globular swelling of the phalanx of one or more of the fingers. There is at first no sensi- ble alteration of the surrounding soft parts ; the swelling has usually been preceded by pains of a dull and obtuse character; the movements of the part affected are for a long time preserved, and indeed are not at all restrained, except when the tumefaction of the bone becomes sufficient to turn aside the tendons from their natural direction, or to cause deformity of the articular surfaces, which rarely happens. As the disease advances, the soft parts are distended, suppuration takes place, and the integuments of the swollen part always ulcerate at a point corresponding to some deficient part of the bony cylinder. Through the ulcerated opening a probe may be passed freely into a cavity which the bone contains; the opening becomes fistulous, and for a long time continues to give exit to a moderate quantity of thin, serous, and ill-conditioned matter; sometimes, however, we notice an improvement in the ge- neral health of the patient, and, at the same time, the local disease assumes a new and more favourable aspect, the discharge diminishes, and at length dries up. Such a decided amendment, however, seldom occurs, until a process of ne- crosis, or exfoliation of a part of the bone, has taken place; after which the wound heals up, the use of the finger is restored, and all that remains of the disease is an unseemly, depressed, and adherent cicatrix. Malignant tumours of the hand.—Malignant osteo-sarcoma, and even fungus haematodes, are diseases which may show themselves in the region of the hand and fingers; but these dis- eases are readily distinguished from the spina ventosa, or benign osteo-sarcoma, above alluded to. The pains of tiie malignant disease are lancinating, the progress is more acute, the con- stitution and health are more quickly and deeply implicated ; the prognosis, too, is very different. Although life may perhaps be prolonged by an amputation of the hand of a patient affected by either of these malignant diseases, the terri- ble disorder will almost uniformly recur. On the contrary, if the disease be spina ventosa, a portion of the hand may be amputated, or a finger removed, and the disease shall not recur * Vide Dublin Hospiial Reports, vol. iv. p. 542.