23 DIGESTION. fully established. Of these the most Import- ant is the objection, which has been frequently urged against it, and has perhaps never been satisfactorily repelled, that it is contrary to the ordinary operations of chemical action for the same agent to be able to red uce the various and heterogeneous matters that are taken into the stomach into a uniform and homogeneous mass, and this difficulty is further increased, when we perceive this powerful effect to be produced by a substance possessed of properties apparently so little active as the gastric juice.* These objections, and others of an analogous nature, have appeared to many of the most emi- nent modern physiologists to press so powerfully upon any hypothesis of digestion which is derived from either mechanical or chemical principles, that they have conceived it necessary to abandon altogether this mode of reasoning, and have referred it entirely to the direct action of what has been termed the vital principle. It is assumed that the internal coat of the stomach is endowed with a specific property, peculiar to itself, and essentially different from any merely physical agency, by which it acts upon the food and reduces it to the state of chyme. This vital property of the stomach is supposed to be proved, both by the necessity of having recourse to this kind of power, in consequence of the in- adequacy of the ordinary properties of matter, and to be farther confirmed by certain facts that have been supposed to prove that the same substance is differently affected by the gastric juice, merely'in consequence of the absence or presence of this principle. Thus it has been observed, that in cases of sudden death, the stomach itself has been partially digested by the gastric juice that was secreted during life,f and * Tiedemann and Gmclin, as the result of their elaborate experimental researches into the nature of the digestive process, conclude that it consists essentially in the solution of the aliment by the gastric juice. Water alone, they observe, at the tem- perature of the mammalia, is capable of dissolving many of the articles employed in diet, and'many •which are not soluble in water are so in the acids which are found in the stomach, and to these they are disposed to refer a considerable part of the operation ; Rccherches, t. i. p. 3fS3..7. We may, however, remark, that a solution of the alimentary matters in water, or even in the acids that exist in the stomach, cannot be supposed to be identical with chyme. t This curious fact, which was first announced by Hunter, Phil. Trans, for 1772, p. 447 et seq., and afterwards more fully detailed in his Observ. on the Anim. CEcon. p. 226...1, has since been fully con- firmed by the observations of some of the most emi- nent modern anatomists. See particularly Baillie's Morb. Anat. ch. 7. p. 148, 9, and works by War- drop,/v. ii. p. 136, 7, and engrav. to Morb. Anat. fas. 3. pi. 7. fig. 2. ; Beck's Med. Jurisp. by Dunlop, p. 376..380 contains many references andgood remarks. We have a valuable paper on the subject by Br. Gairdner, Ed. Med. Chir. Trans, v. i. p. 311 ct seq. and also by Br. Carswell, Ed. Med. Jour. v. xxxiv. p. 282 ct seq. ; also Archives de Med. Fev. 1830, and Amer. Jour. Med. Sc. v. vii. p. 227..9. In the Cambridge Phil. Trans, v. i. p. 287 etseq., we have a case of this description by Br. Haviland. Br. Carswell has given an accurate and ample account of the appearances and effects produced by the gastric juice on' the stomach, in the fifth number of his Pathol. Anat. ■ it is accompanied by two excellent plates. upon this principle it has been found, that cer- tain kinds of worms, which exist in the diges- tive organs of animals, are not affected by the gastric juice as long as they remain alive, but that after death they become subject to its action. This hypothesis of the vital principle is the one which was supported by Fordyce in his elaborate treatise, and is probably that which, under certain modifications, may be regarded as the prevailing opinion of the modern physiolo- gists. To a certain extent it is correct, and the position on which it is founded, that the living body differs essentially in its powers and pro- perties from the dead body, cannot be denied. But it may still be questioned, whether the ex- planation thus offered be not rather verbal than real, or whether any actual explanation is afforded of the phenomena, or any actual diffi- culty removed by adopting this mode of ex- pression. Every one admits that a living sto- mach differs from one that is deprived of life, but still it remains for us to point out in what this difference consists; is it a chemical or a mechanical action ? or if it be not referable to either of these actions, to what general principle can it be referred ? It is contrary to the rules of sound reasoning to invent a new agent for the urgency of the individual case, until we are able to demonstrate the absolute impossibility of employing those which were previously recognized. With respect therefore to the hypothesis of the vital principle, as maintained by Fordyce and many of the modern physiolo- gists, we should say, that it is rather a verbal than a real explanation of the phenomena, and that it rather evades the objections than answers them. The last hypothesis of digestion which we proposed to notice, that of nervous action, although somewhat allied to the one which we have last examined, is more precise and defi- nite in its statement, and consequently more entitled to our consideration. It assumes, that the process of digestion depends upon the direct and immediate agency of the nervous system. It is founded upon the anatomical fact of the mode in which the stomach is con- nected with the nervous system, and upon the observed relations between those causes that act through the medium of this system, and the changes that take place in the action of the stomach. With respect to the anatomical ar- gument it has been urged, that there is no organ of the body, which is provided with such a number of nerves, proceeding from so many sources, and connected in so direct a way with the cerebral system. There are equally remarkable circumstances of a physiological and pathological nature, which prove the inti- mate connection between the nervous system and the action of the stomach. Not only does the stomach partake of almost every change that occurs, in any part of the corporeal frame, either natural or morbid, in a way which we must conceive can only be brought about through the intervention of the nervous sys- tem, but it is affected by our mental emo- tions, and that probably in a greater degree than any other of our organs, except tho:e that