GENERATION. 471 family the influence of the other parent, may predominate.* Nor does it appear that any general law has been established regarding the transmission of the nature of the constitution, temperament, state of health, duration of life, &c; for in the human species at least these qualities of the offspring seem to be inherited from either parent or from both indiscriminately. The complexion and colour of the offspring has received much attention. In some animals the colour of both parents is sometimes pre- served, as in the piebald horse; in others a mixture of the colours of the father and mo- ther appears in the offspring as an interme- diate tint. In other animals, and most fre- quently in the human species, the colour de- scends from one only of the parents. Thus among white races of the human species, it happens more frequently, when the parents are of different complexion, that the child takes after one or other of them than that its com- plexion is intermediate between those of the parents; but it does not appear as yet to be ascertained that one parent determines the colour more frequently than the other. The offspring from the union of people of dark and white races of the human species usually has a complexion which is a mixture of or is intermediate between the complexions of the two parents, as in the Mulatto and other degrees of colouring; but it is alleged that in these instances the colour of the father usually pre- dominates over that of the mother. Thus a dark father produces with a white mother a darker child than a white father with a dark mother. Among animals there are infinite varieties in this respect. White colour is said to be more readily transmitted than others. In some animals, however, colour is trans- mitted with great regularity : thus it has been found that as many as two hundred and five of the product of two hundred and sixteen pairs of horses of similar colour inherited the colours of their parents. The degree of fruitfulness in bearing off- spring, or the opposite, sterility, the qualities of the voice, peculiarities in the degree of deli- cacy of the external senses, as long or short- sightedness, musical ear, &c, the physical powers of the body as illustrated in the speed or strength of horses, and peculiarities of the digestive functions of the nature of idiosyn- crasies, are other familiar examples of bodily qualities usually transmitted in hereditary de- scent from one or other parent to the offspring. Lastly, the qualities of the mind are, perhaps as much as the bodily configuration and powers, subject to influence from the hereditary in- fluence of parents upon their offspring. The powers of observation, memory, judgment, imagination, the fancy, and all that belongs to what is usually called genius, the emotions, * Br. Walker, in a short essay lately printed for private distribution, has attempted to shew that the upper and back part of the head usually resembles the mother, the face from the eyes downwards most frequently the father. passions, desires, and appetites, as inborn mental qualities of the offspring, are all liable to be influenced in the act of generation by the parents.* The hereditary predisposition of man and ani- mals to particular diseases also illustrates in a striking manner the general law now under con- sideration, and from its importance in reference to life assurance has attracted considerable at- tention. Almost all the forms of mental derangement are more or less directly hereditary, one of the parents or some near relation being affected. Of bodily diseases, pulmonary complaints, diseases of the heart, scrofula, rickets, worms, gout, rheumatism, hemorrhoids, hypochondri- asis, scirrhus, apoplexy, cataract, amaurosis, hernia, urinary calculi, may be mentioned as examples of diseases more or less directly transmitted as predispositions from parent to offspring. The goitral and cretinous affections combined with deficient intellect are striking examples of the effect of hereditary influence combined with that of the situation in which the cretins live. The union of goitrous per- sons in particular districts leads to the pro- duction of cretins, while the union of a cretin with a healthy person tends to the improve- ment of the offspring, or its gradual return to the healthy state. The predisposition to disease may be trans- mitted to the offspring from either parent, and from the one as often as from the other, but much more certainly when both the parents have been affected with the disease. We may also fhention, in connection with this subject, the transmission to the offspring of various marks and deformities in the struc- ture of the parents or their relations. The cretinism already mentioned is one of these, and there are numerous other cerebral de- formities which are so transmitted, as congeni- tal malformations, such as the acephalous and anencephalous states, spina bifida, cyclopia, &c. which run remarkably in particular families. In many instances the hereditary cause of these deformities has been distinctly traced to one or other of the parents. Naevus, moles, growths of hair in unusual places, hare-lip, deficient or supernumerary toes or fingers, have all been traced to hereditary influence, and probably as often to the one parent or his family as to the other. Malformations of the heart, congenital hernia, and indeed most other malformations, are capable of being traced to a similar origin. Were further illustration of this general law requisite, it would be found in the resem- blance of mules or hybrids produced by the union of two distinct races, varieties, or species of animals, which productions also afford an excellent opportunity of observing * In endeavouring to estimate the degree of original resemblance of offspring to parent mentally as well as bodily, but especially the former, great caution is necessary not to overlook that resem- blance between them which depends on education, similar habits, pursuits, mode of life, and conti- nual intercourse.