EYE. 186 brane, of such strength, that when detached, it may be moved about in water, and freely ex- amined without breaking. It adheres so firmly to the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous hu- mour in the fresh eye, that it cannot be sepa- rated entire, and the medullary fibres adhere so closely to its external surface, that they can- not be detached at all in the form of a distinct membrane. To demonstrate the vascular layer, the sclerotic should be carefully removed, leav- ing a portion of the optic nerve freed from its sheath ; the choroid should then also be re- moved under water, by tearing it asunder with a pair of forceps in each hand. The vitreous humour, covered by the retina only, should then be allowed to remain about two days in the water, at the end of which time the me- dullary layer softens and separates into flakes, which may be scraped from the vascular layer beneath by passing the edge of a knife gently over it, after which the vascular layer may be detached by careful management, and sus- pended in a bottle from the optic nerve. The retina is supplied with blood from the ophthalmic artery, a small branch of which penetrates the optic nerve at a short distance from the back of the eye, and proceeds through its centre until it arrives at the retina. The hole in the centre of the nerve, through which it passes, was formerly called the porus opticus. Arrived at the retina, the vessel, under the name of the central artery of the retina, divides into two branches, which surround the foramen of Sdmmerring, and sending ramifications in every direction, terminate by encircling the an- terior margin. Besides the branches which carry red blood, the central artery probably furnishes a transparent branch to the centre of the vitreous humour, as such a branch running on to the back of the crystalline lens, may be injected in the eye of the foetus, and a transpa- rent production from the central artery into the vitreous humour may be observed in the eyes of oxen and other large animals. The arteries of the retina supply the vitreous humour with blood, as no other source exists, except from the ciliary processes of the choroid, which, being buried in the hyaloid membrane, most probably furnish vessels to the anterior part, and in dissecting the vascular layer above de- scribed, in which the vessels ramify, it is found to adhere to the hyaloid membrane by points along the course of the vessels, which points, it is reasonable to believe, are small branches. As the medullary or cerebral fibres of the retina are sustained on the inside by the vascu- lar layer above described, they are also protected on the outside by another membrane, which separates them from the inner surface of the choroid. This is the membrane which I des- cribed in a communication in the Philosophical Transactions in 1819, and as I cannot give a more intelligible account of it than that there contained, I venture to introduce it here. " Anatomists describe the retina as consisting of two portions, the medullary expansion of the nerve, and a membranous or vascular layer. The former externally, next to the choroid coat, and the latter internally, next to the • vitreous humour. All, however, except Albinus and some of his disciples, agree, that the nervous layer cannot be separated so as to present the appearance of a distinct membrane, though it may be scraped off. leaving the vascular layer perfect. That the medullary expansion of the optic nerve is supported by a vascular layer, does not, I think, admit of doubt; but it does not appear that Albinus was right in supposing that the nervous layer can be separated in form of a distinct membrane, though shreds of a considerable size may be detached, especially if hardened by acid or spirit. " Exclusive of these two layers, I find that the retina is covered on its external surface by a delicate transparent membrane, united to it by cellular substance and vessels. This struc- ture, not hitherto noticed by anatomists, I first observed in the spring of the last year, and have since so frequently demonstrated, as to leave no doubt on my mind of its existence as a distinct and perfect membrane, apparently of the same nature as that which lines serous cavi- ties. I cannot describe it better, than by detailing the method to be adopted for examining and dis- playing it. Having procured a human eye, within forty-eight hours after death, a thread should be passed through the layers of the cor- nea, by which the eye may be secured under water, by attaching it to a piece of wax, previ- ously fastened to the bottom of the vessel, the posterior half of the sclerotic having been first removed. With a pair of dissecting forceps in each hand, the choroid coat should be gently torn open and turned down. If the exposed surface be now carefully examined, an ex- perienced eye may perceive, that this is not the appearance usually presented by the retina ; instead of the blue-white reticulated surface of that membrane, a uniform villous structure, more or less tinged by the black pigment, pre- sents itself. If the extremity of the ivory handle of a dissecting knife be pushed against this surface, a breach is made in it, and a mem- brane of great delicacy may be separated and turned down in folds over the choroid coat, presenting the most beautiful specimen of a delicate tissue which the human body affords. If a small opening be made in the membrane, and the blunt end of a probe introduced be- neath, it may be separated throughout, without being turned down, remaining loose over the retina ; in which state if a small particle of paper or globule of air be introduced under it, it is raised so as to be seen against the light, and is thus displayed to great advantage; or it is sometimes so strong as to support small glo- bules of quicksilver dropped between it and the retina, which renders its membranous na- ture still more evident. If a few drops of acid be added to the water after the membrane has been separated, it becomes opaque and much firmer, and may thus be preserved for several days, even without being immersed in spirit. " That it is not the nervous layer which I de- tach, is proved by the most superficial exa- mination; first, because it is impossible to separate that part of the retina, so as to present the appearance I mention ; and, secondly, be-