934 INSECTA. another of the Melolonthida, Rhizotrogus custuneus,* three distinct legs originated by separate trochanters from a single prothoracic coxa of the right side (Jig. 399, A). But per- Fig. 399. A, Rhizotrogus castaneus; B, Scaritea Pyrachmon ; C, legs of ditto ; E, F,G, different views of a treble tarsus of Carabusperforatus (Asmuss). haps the most remarkable example is that given by Lefebvref of Scarites Pyrachmon (B), in which from a single coxa on the left side of the presternum two trochanters originated (Jig. 399, B, C). The anterior one, the proper trochanter, supported the true prothoracic leg; while the posterior one, in the form of an oblong lanceolate body, attached to the base of the first, supported two additional legs equally well formed as the true one. Dr. Asmuss has also given an example in Carabus perforatus of a treble fifth joint in the tarsus of the left meta- thoracic leg (E, F, G), in which all the claws of three distinct tarsi exist. The principles upon which the modifications of form, and the existence of supernumerary parts depend, as attributable to retarded or ex- cessive development, have been particularly insisted upon by Saint Hilaire, Professor Grant, and other comparative anatomists, in reference to the development of the body in vertebrata, and are equally applicable to that of the invertebrata. That these aberrations of form really depend * Bassi. t Guerin's Magasin d'Entomoloizie, fasckul. 5, tab. 40. upon an arrest of development is well shown in tlie instance we formerly gave of Geolrupes stercorarius (fig. 332), in confirmation of the views of Savigny, respecting the different kinds of appendages in each segment being simply mo- difications of the same normal structure. That retarded development is capable of producing these aberrant forms we once satisfied ourself by experiment made on a specimen of Sphinx ligustri. We carefully watched a larva that was about to undergo its change into the pupa state, and when it was beginning to assume that condition, retarded its development by repeatedly touching and otherwise disturbing it, the result of which was that the projecting case that usually exists on the point of the perfect pupa of this insect was not developed in the pupa in question, which we still possess, and which exhibits an uniform appearance of its exterior almost precisely similar to that of Sphinx populi. With regard to the existence of supernumerary limbs, it is presumed, in the absence of any evidence that these additional parts exist also in the larva, as we suspect they do, as well as in the perfect insect, that they do not originate simply by a greater development of one part than of another during the changes of the insect, but upon an original tendency to the production of them which existed in the germ itself. This opinion seems to be supported by the circumstance, that although there is a tendency to the reproduction of the same parts as a normal condition of the wings in some insects, such reproduction is not known to occur as an abnormal condition, which appears to be accounted for by the circumstance that the wings themselves are simply developments of parts of other structures, the respiratory organs. The muscular system of Insects, like that of other Articulata, is contained within the dermo- skeleton. It is composed of an immense number of distinct, isolated, straight fibres, which are not constantly aggregated together in bundles, united by common tendons, or covered by aponeuroses to form distinct mus- cles, as in Vertebrata, but remain separate from each other, and only in some instances are united at one extremity by tendons. The greater number of these fibres are flat, thin, and of the same size throughout their whole length, a few only being slightly conical. They are arranged parallel to each other, and form layers, or series of fibres. These series of fibres, or layers, we prefer to regard as sepa- rate muscles, rather than as aggregations of muscles, as they were formerly regarded by Lyonet,* because we are thereby enabled to simplify our description of the muscular sys- tem of these animals. But besides these layers of fibres, which form the greater part of the muscular system, there are also certain sets of fibres which are united by tendons to con- stitute distinct muscles, but they are not in- closed by aponeuroses. The muscles of in- sects differ, then, as remarked by Straus, f from * Traite Anatomique dc la Chenille qui icnge le bois de Saule, 17b'0. f Considerations, &c. p. 145.