406 ORGANS OF GENERATION. rendered at first turbid, and when excess is added a white adhesive compound falls: nitrate and per-nitrate of mercury and chloride of tin occasion nearly similar changes. But the me- tallic salt which is the most decided precipitant of gelatin, and which does not affect albumen, is sulphate of platinum; it throws it down even from very dilute solutions, in the form of brown flocculi, which, when collected and dried, become black and brittle, and which, according to Mr. Edmund Davy, to whom we owe this effective test, consist of about 76 per cent, of sulphate of platinum and 24 per cent, of gelatin and water. We now come to the most important and characteristic property of gelatin, which is, that of combining with tannin, and upon which the art of tanning, or the conversion of skin into leather, essentially depends, for the true skin (cutis) of animals consists of a condensed and fibrous form of organised gelatin, and, when properly prepared and im- mersed in a solution of vegetable astringent matter or tannin, it becomes gradually pene- trated by and combined with it, and when dried is rendered insoluble and durable. The tannin of the gall-nut is perhaps that which forms the most insoluble precipitate in gelati- nous solutions, and is therefore the most de- licate test of the presence of gelatin; but, as albumen is also thrown down by it, the absence of the latter must have been previously ascer- tained. (See Albumen.) A strong infusion of galls occasions a precipitate in water holding less than a five-thousandth part of gelatin in solution, and, if added to a strong solution of gelatin, it throws it down in the form of a curdy precipitate, more or less dense and coloured according to the greater or less excess of the precipitant. The precipitated compound is insoluble in water, dilute acids, and alcohol, and when dried becomes hard and brittle, but again softens and acquires its former appear- ance when soaked in water: it may be termed tanno-gelatin. When tannin is added to a solution of gelatin, the latter being in excess, and especially if it be warm, no precipitate is immediately formed, for tanno-gelatin, when recently precipitated, is to a certain extent soluble in liquid gelatin. Tanno-gelatin does not appear to be a definite compound ; at least it is difficult to obtain it as such: the preci- pitate by infusion of galls consists, when care- fully dried, of about 40 per cent, of tan and 60 of gelatin. When obtained by other astringents, such as oak-bark, catechu, and kino, it differs in the relative proportion of its components and in its other characters, and often contains extractive matter. According to Sir H.Davy,* 100 parts of calf-skin thoroughly tanned by infusion of galls increase in weight 64 parts ; by strong infusion of oak-bark 34, and by weak 17; by concentrated infusion of willow- bark 34, and by dilute 15; and by infusion of catechu 19. Mr. Hatchett's researches have shewn that gelatin is also precipitated by the varieties * Philos. Trans. of artificial tan, and that the compound thrown down resembles in its leading characters the tanno-gelatin of natural tan. The ultimate composition of gelatin (pure isinglass) has been quantitatively determined by Gay Lussac and Thenard, with the following results :— Nitrogen Carbon Oxygen Atoms. Equiv. Theory. Experiment. . 1 14 16.09 16.998 . 7 42 48.28 47.881 . 7 7 8.04 7.914 . 3 24 27.59 27.207 1 87 100.00 100.000 As the combining proportion of gelatin has not been accurately ascertained, its equivalent number, as above given, is open to doubt, but it is probably correct, and the theoretical and experimental results closely correspond. ( W. T. Brandt.) GENERATION, ORGANS OF, (Com- parative Anatomy).—Few subjects connected with physiology have been investigated more assiduously than that of the generation of ani- mals ; and in none, perhaps, has the poverty of our knowledge of the operations of nature been more conspicuously exemplified. In studying many functions of the animal economy, the laws of chemistry and mechanics have been suc- cessfully appealed to by the philosopher, and their application to the operations of the animal frame satisfactorily substantiated ; but in at- tempting to explain the wonderful process by which organized bodies are perpetuated, all the resources of modern science have been found totally inadequate to the task, and we are still left to record facts and observations concerning the structure of the organs appropriated to the propagation of animals, without being in any degree able to connect them with the results so continually offered to our contemplation. In taking a general survey of the animal kingdom, we are at once struck with the infinite variety of forms which it presents, adapted to an end- less diversity of circumstances, and might expect to meet with a corresponding dissimilarity in the organization of the generative apparatus pecu- liar to each: no such dissimilarity, however, exists in nature, the modes of reproduction conform to a few grand types, and the increasing complexity of parts, apparent as we ascend to higher classes, which it will be our business to trace in this article, will be seen to depend rather upon modifications in the arrangement of secondary structures than upon any deviation from the fundamental organization of the more immediate agents. Without entering upon any discussion con- cerning the theories which have from time to time been advocated relative to spontaneous generation, we shall divide all animals as re- lates to the generative function into three great classes, grouping together such as are 1st. Fissiparous, in which the propagation of the species is effected by the spontaneous divi- sion of one individual into two or more, pre- cisely resembling the original being.