INSECTA. 991 short valvular projectile organ, covered exter- nally by two pointed horny plates (i), clothed with soft hairs. Above these are two other irregular double-jointed plates (/), convex on their outer and concave on their inner surface, and surrounded at their base by a bony ring (/c). They are half corneous half membranous, and folded together like a closed fan, and are furnished at their posterior margin with horny hooks (t), which are used as organs of prehen- sion. Between these in the middle line are two elongated muscular parts (?n), which when applied together form a pointed structure, and inclose between them in its retracted state the proper intromittent organ (h). These perhaps assist to dilate the vulva of the female, like the plates above noticed in the Coleoptera. In many instances, as in Anthidium munkatum, the posterior margin of the last true abdominal segment is armed with spines that are curved downwards, and serve to retain the female, and this is also the case in the Chrusidida. In Anthophora retusa the horny penis formed of the last two segments of the larva has also two external plates developed into hooked prehen- sile organs, with which the insect grasps the abdomen of the female at the moment of actual connexion. In the Sphinx (fig.'iQV) and other Lepidoptera the appendages of the anal seg- ment appear to be analogous to the sheath of the ovipositor in the preceding orders. On each side of these parts at their inner surface are two horny plates, which form the lateral boundary of the male organs. Within these is a cloaca, in which the anal aperture terminates, and immediately beneath it are situated the male organs. These consist of an extensile bifid, ejaculatory organ included between two soft valvular parts. They form the virile organ. In the Sphinx the posterior margin of the dorsal plate of the terminal segment is armed with a slender curved hook, bifid at its apex, and bent downwards, like the hooks in the body of Hymenoptera, for retaining con- nexion with the female. Among the Diptera the Asilida have the male organ formed in a somewhat similar manner. The terminal seg- ment of the body forms a pair of broad horny plates, which inclose between them the double stiliform excretory canal. The ductus ejaculatorius passes backwards from the penis as a single canal, which either is exceedingly short, as in Athalia, (Jig. 437,/), or is a very long tube, forming many convolutions in its course, as in many of the Coleoptera. Into this canal open the vesicula seminules and the vasa deferentia. The vesicula seminules are usually long convoluted ccecal tubes, which assume a variety of forms, sometimes branched sometimes simple. They are two, and some- times four in number. In some species, as in Athalia (e), they are exceedingly short, and very much dilated, serving evidently as recep- tacles for the semen as it is secreted by the testes, and conveyed towards the ejaculatory duct by the vasa deferentia (d). These, like the seminal vessels, vary in number according to the number of the testes. When the whole of the testes are aggregated together, the vasa deferentia that proceed from them are united from each set of testes into a single tube on each side (b), but when the testes remain dis- tinct from each other, each deferential vessel passes at first separately from each testis for a short distance, and the whole are then collected together, and form on each side a single tube, which, after many convolutions, either is in- serted into the extremity of the seminal vessel, or is inserted along with it into the commence- ment of the ejaculatory duct. The length of the common deferential vessels is sometimes so great, and they are so much convoluted, as to be readily mistaken for testes, much larger than the proper testicles. This is the case in Athalia (d). The proper testes are usually several rounded glandular bodies, in some instances, as in Melotontha* and Lucanus, amounting to as many as six on each side, and in a few in- stances, as in Athalia, even to as many as thir- teen. In form they are sometimes rounded, and sometimes are elongated coeciform tubes. They are usually regarded as ccecal organs, but in some instances we have distinctly traced minute vessels connected with them, but whether these vessels passed by open mouths directly into the coeca, or whether distributed over their surface, is perhaps still a question; our impression cer- tainly is that they enter the testes. Besides these parts, there are in some instances struc- tures that resemble an epididymis, as in Hy- drous,\ but these are generally absent. These organs lie within the abdominal cavity, in general on each side of the alimentary canal, and sometimes above it, as in the instance of the Lepidoptera, in which the two separate testes of the larva (jig. 364, i) are united in the perfect insect into one mass, which is situ- ated immediately beneath the dorsal vessel (fig. 366, i). In each of these cases the con- nexion with the vessel, as formerly noticed, is distinctly traced. Besides these parts we ought also to notice some which are appendages of the organs similar to appendages found in the female, but the function of which is not dis- tinctly understood. In the female the organs of generation are more simple than in the male. Of these we have first to notice those external parts which form, as we have stated, either the long ex- tended ovipositor of the Gryllida:, the sheath of the sting of the bee (jig. 438, A, a,d), or the sheath or valves of the ovipositor of the Terebrantia (C, b). The condensed descrip- tion of these parts that has been given by Mr. WestwoodJ clearly explains their structure. He remarks that, " from the centre of the under side of the abdomen, near its extre- mity, arise two plates, each consisting of two joints, sometimes valvular and together forming a scabbard, sometimes more slender, and resembling palpi, and sometimes very long; between these plates, as they exist in the bee (A, b), under the form of two flattened plates, with a pair of terminal lobes, arise two other pieces which are very slender, serrated * Straus, t Dufour. t Entomologist's Text Book, p. 375.