532 ORGAN OF HEARING. the internal wall of the tube of the cochlea ne- cessarily forms'where it bends abruptly at the last turn. This last part of the axis, viewed from the cavity of the second turn of the tube, has a funnel-like appearance, the wide mouth corresponding to the cupola; hence it is called infundibulum or sci/phus. But viewed from the last turn, the so-called infundibulum is a mere free edge which proceeds directly to be con- founded with the walls of the cochlea. But all this, if the disposition of a snail's shell, or a tube coiled round be rightly conceived, is understood of itself. Exposed by the removal of the outer walls of the cochlea, the axis is somewhat like the common pictorial representations of the tower of Babel. It has a spongy porous appearance. It is pervaded by numerous small canals which run from its base onwards to orifices on its sides, corresponding to the spiral lamina, and transmit into the cochlea the ramifications of the cochlear branch of the auditory nerve and bloodvessels. The outermost of the canals are the shortest; towards the interior they gradually become longer, and there is one canal in parti- cular wider than the rest, twhich runs through- out its whole length ; it is called tubulus cen- tralis modioli, and opens at the so-called in- fundibulum. The base of the axis corresponds to the an- terior part of the inferior depression at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, and presents the commencing orifices of the small canals just mentioned, arranged in a spiral manner corresponding to the turns of the coch- lea, tractus spirulis f'oraminulentus of Co- tugno.* Spiral lamina and scala of the cochlea.— The passages into which the tube of the coch- lea is subdivided are called scala, and the par- tition lamina spiralis. The spiral lamina is partly bony, partly membraneous; but as we are describing the osseous shell of the labyrinth only, it is with the bony part alone we have at present to do. The bony part of the spiral lamina, zonula ossea lamina: spiralis, is coiled round the axis or cen- tral pillar of the cochlea like the stairs in a spiral staircase. The internal or central margin of the bony spiral lamina is inserted on the axis. Its peripheral margin is free in the dry bone, so that the two scalae are not found com- pletely separated from each other, as in the re- cent state, when the membraneous extension of the spiral lamina exists. At the place where the spiral lamina is inserted on the axis, there is a sort of canal all round, which has been specially described by Rosenthal! under the name of canalis spiralis modioli. The spiral lamina commences with a bend or sweep upwards and forwards at the base of the cochlea, below the hemispherical depres- sion of the vestibule and opposite the bridge of bone which separates the vestibular fenestra * De aqueductibus auris humanae interna? ana- tomies dissertatio, s. xxiv. pp. 36—38. Viennae, 1774. f Ueber den Ban der Spindel im menschlichert Ohr. In Meckel's Archiv. Bd. viii. p. 75. from the cochlear fenestra. Its broadest part, which is about the middle of the first turn of the cochlea, is about one-twentieth of an, inch. Towards the summit of the cochlea it insen- sibly contracts, and ceasing to be connected to the axis, where the latter presents the free margin already mentioned, terminates at the commencement of the third turn in a curved hook-like point. This hook, hamulus lamina: spirulis, has a free concave margin towards the axis, and a convex margin, which latter, how- ever, like the rest of the peripheral margin of the bony spiral lamina, is not free in the recent state, but is continuous with the membrane which completes the partition. In consequence of the above mode of termi- nation of the bony spiral lamina by means of a free margin towards the axis of the cochlea, an opening of communication is left, even in the recent state, between the two scalae of the cochlea. For this opening, which was called by Cassebohm* canalis scularum communis, we adopt from Breschet-j- the name helicotrema.\ The bony spiral lamina consists of two thin plates of bone, between which run numerous small canals from the central margin of the lamina to its peripheral—the continuation of those already described in the axis, and which therefore bend at a right angle in passing from the axis into the spiral lamina. At the free edge of the osseous part of the spiral lamina, the two plates of bone are intimately incorpo- rated. This part of the bony spiral lamina, which is more delicate, denser, whiter, more transparent, and, in the recent state, more elastic than the rest, is what Breschet calls the middle zone. The surface of the spiral lamina corresponding to the tympanic scala is much marked with striae running from the inner margin to the outer. The surface correspond- ing to the vestibular scala is less striated. Of the two scalae of the cochlea, one, scala tympani, communicates with the cavity of the tympanum through the fenestra rotunda or cochlear fenestra, which however, in the recent slate, is closed by a membrane; the other, scala veslibuli, opens by an oval orifice freely into the vestibule, and it is only by means of the communication which the tympanic scala has with the vestibular scala through the heli- cotrema that the former communicates with the rest of the labyrinthic cavity. The tympanic scala is wider at the commencement than the vestibular, which on its part again is larger toward the termination. Near the fenestra ro- tunda there is in the tympanic scala a very minute orifice, that of the aqueduct of the cochlea. We shall return to the spiral lamina, the scalae of the cochlea, and the mechanism of the helicotrema, when speaking of the mem- brane lining the labyrinthic cavity. The aqueducts.—What are called the aque- ducts are two canals of very minute calibre, opening by one extremity in the labyrinthic * Tractatus quintus anat. de aure humana, etc. HaUe Magd. 1735, s. 194, p. 12. t Op. cit. s. xiv. \ E?u£, tXia-j-ai, volvere, and rfripa, foramen.