405 GELATIN. it is obtained previous to the action of boiling water, and, moreover, as it does not occur in any of the animal fluids or secretions, it has been regarded by some chemists, and especially by Berzelius, as a product of the action of water and heat, and not as a mere educt. He compares its formation to the conversion of starch into gum and sugar, and remarks that in both cases the change is ac- celerated by the presence of dilute acids. Pure gelatin is colourless, transparent, in- odorous, insipid, and neither acid nor alkaline ; heat softens it and exhales a peculiar odour, and it burns with smoke and flame, leaving a bulky coal, difficult of incineration and containing phosphate of lime : it yields much ammonia, and the other ordinary products of analogous animal compounds, when subjected to destructive distillation. In cold water dry gelatin swells and be- comes opaque, and when gently heated it dissolves and forms a clear colourless solution, which gelatinises when cold. According to Dr. Bostock, one part of isinglass to 100 parts of water yields a perfect jelly, but with 180 of water it does not concrete.* Those modifications of gelatin which are the least soluble in hot water yield the strongest jelly. When the same portion of jelly is repeatedly liquefied and cooled, it gradually loses the property of gelatinising, and becomes so far modified as to leave a brownish gummy residue when evaporated, which readily dissolves in cold water. L. Gmelin kept a solution of isinglass in a sealed tube for several weeks at the temperature of 212° : it was thus changed to the consistency of turpentine, was deliquescent, soluble in cold water, and par- tially so in alcohol. An aqueous solution of gelatin exposed for some time to the air at the temperature of 60° to 70° becomes at first thinner and sour, and afterwards ammoniacal and fetid: the addition of acetic acid prevents the putrefac- tion without impairing the adhesive power of the gelatin. Gelatin is insoluble in alcohol and ether, and in the fixed and volatile oils. When a strong aqueous solution of gelatin is dropped into alcohol, it forms a white adhesive and elastic mass, which adheres strongly to the glass, and which, like dry gelatin, softens, but does not dissolve in cold water. When chlorine is passed through a warm and somewhat concentrated solution of gelatin, each bubble becomes covered with an elastic film, and deposits, on bursting, a white, tough viscid matter; the whole of the gelatin is thus precipitated, and free muriatic acid is formed. This chloride of gelatin is insoluble in water and alcohol, and remains acid, and smells of chlorine, even after it has been kneaded in warm water. Dissolved in caustic am- monia in a tube over mercury, it evolves nitrogen and becomes mucilaginous. It is soluble in acetic acid; but the solution, though rendered turbid by dilution, gives no preci- * Nicholson's Journal, xi. 244. pitate by ferro-cyanuret of potassium, so that the gelatin is not thus converted into albumen, No analogous compound is produced either by iodine or bromine. The action of sulphuric acid on gelatin has been studied by Braconnot.* When one part of glue and two of sulphuric acid are mixed, they form in twenty-four hours a clear fluid, which, when diluted with eight parts of water, boiled for eight hours, (the loss by evaporation being replaced by fresh portions of water,) and then neutralised by chalk, filtered, evaporated to the consistency of syrup, and set aside for a month, yields a crystalline crust of a peculiar saccharine substance, which is insoluble in alcohol and ether, unsusceptible of vinous fermentation, and gives ammonia by destructive distillation. It combines and forms a peculiar crystallisable compound with nitric acid, which he calls the nitro-saccharic acid, and which combines with the salifiable bases and forms distinct salts, the Droperties of which closely resemble the carbuzotates. Dilute nitric acid dissolves gelatin without the evolution of nitrous gas, and forms a yellow solution, which, by evaporation, (or the ad- dition of an alkali,) becomes darker, and at last evolves nitrous gas, and passes (often with ignition) into a spongy coal.f By concen- trated nitric acid gelatin is converted into malic and oxalic acids, a fatly substance, and artificial tan.J Acetic acid dissolves gelatin and the solution does not gelatinise, but upon drying, the ad- hesive power of the gelatin is unimpaired: the dilute acids do not generally prevent ge- latinisation. Neither the dilute caustic alkalis nor am- monia prevent the concretion of a solution of gelatin, but they render-it turbid by precipi- tating its phosphate of lime. Gelatin is soluble in strong caustic potash, with the exception of a residue of phosphate of lime. The solu- tion, when neutralised by acetic acid, does not gelatinise, and yields on evaporation a compound of gelatine with acetate of potash, which is soluble in alcohol. Sulphuric acid precipitates sulphate of potash from this acetic solution, in combination with gelatin ; and this compound precipitate, dissolved in water, crystallizes by spontaneous evaporation to the last drop.§ Hydrate of lime does not affect a solution of gelatin, but much lime is dissolved by it: it also takes up a considerable quantity of recently precipitated phosphate of lime. Gelatin is not precipitated by solution of alum, but when an alkali is added the alurnine falls in combination with gelatin. The alu- minous solution of gelatin is used for sizing paper, and for communicating to woollen cloth a certain degree of impenetrability to water. The acetates of lead do not precipitate pure gelatin; by corrosive sublimate its solution is * Annalcs de Chim. et Pliys. xiii. t Hatchett, Phil. Trans. 1800, p. 369. t Ibid. § Berzelius.