HEART. 613 perfectly impossible to insulate that organ from the nerve and experiment upon it; but we think we are justified in concluding from ob- servations and experiments derived from other sources, that in all probability the contractility of the heart depends upon a property possessed by the muscular fibre itself without any neces- sary intervention of its nerves. The possibility of exciting or increasing the action of the heart by stimuli applied to its nerves has been mixed up with this question. Though it must be admitted that mechanical and chemical stimu- lants applied to a considerable surface of the central organs of the nervous system quicken the heart's action, yet experimenters have gene- rally acknowledged that these stimulants applied to the nerves of the heart produce no effect upon its movements. Burdach,* however, maintains that he lias quickened the heart of a rabbit deprived of sensation by applying caustic potass to the trunk of the sympathetic, or its in- ferior cervical ganglion. That the heart can be excited to contraction by the application of galvanism has had many supporters, and many celebrated names are arranged both on the affirmative and negative sides of the question. That the movements of the heart may be in- creased or renewed by the application of gal- vanism as the experiment is usually performed, there can be no reasonable doubt; for if one wire is placed upon the nerve and the other upon the heart, the moist nerve will act as a conductor to the electricity, and the effect pro- duced will be the same as if the stimulant had been applied to the substance of the heart itself. Nysten admits that movements of the heart were excited by the galvanism when one of the wires was applied to one of the large arteries from which all the visible filaments of the nerves had been dissected off. Dr. C. Holland,! in a number of experiments, satisfied himself that the tissues of the body conduct galvanism with so much facility, that the heart's action could readily be excited, when one wire was placed upon the heart and the other in the nose, mouth, and even among the moist food in the stomach. I have performed similar experiments with the same results. Humboldt and Brachet assert that they have quickened the movements of the heart by applying both wires to one of the cardiac nerves. If these and the experi- ments of Burdach could be relied upon, they would be sufficient to prove that the heart could be occasionally stimulated through the cardiac nerves, but the negative experiments on the other side are so numerous, and the sources of fallacy in judging in this manner of the relative quickness of the heart's action between one time and another so obvious, that we must be allowed to distrust them unless they should be confirmed by other accurate observers. Constancy of the heart's action.—The con- stancy of the heart's action is more apparent than real. After each contraction a state of relaxation follows. The relative duration of * Traite de Physiologic, torn. vii. p. 74, traduit par Join dan. t Experimental Inquiry, &t. p. 275. the contraction of the auricles and ventricles, according to Laennec, appears to be as fol- lows :—a third at most, or a fourth or a little less by the systole of the auricles ; a fourth or a little less by the state of quiescence; and the half or nearly so by the systole of the ventricles. From this he calculates that the ventricles, when the heart is acting with its usual frequency, rest twelve hours out of the twenty-four, and that in those individuals in whom the pulse is naturally below 50, it must be in a state of relaxation sixteen hours out of the twenty-four.* Now this is a degree of contraction of which many muscles of the body are probably suscep- tible, such as the muscles which support the trunk when we sit or walk, and which some, as the diaphragm and intercostals, generally perform. Regularity of the heart's movements.—The regularity of the heart's movements, so essential to the welfare of the animal, has appeared, even to many modern physiologists, to be inti- mately connected with some peculiarity in its structure. We are inclined, however, to agree with Haller, that this is perfectly explicable on the known laws of muscular contractility in other parts of the body. The regularity of the heart's action was another fertile subject of hypothesis to the older physiologists ; and even in the present day we find the term " organic instinct'' employpd to designate it. The contractions of the heart take place in the order in which the blood flows into its different cavities; and if the blood be the habi- tual stimulant upon which its movements depend, this is exactly what we would expect.f The blood forced in greater quantity into the auricles by the contraction of the termination of the cava; and pulmonary veins, stimulates the auricles to contract and propel an additional quantity into the ventricles ; and this, acting as a stimulant upon the ventricles, excites them to contract and drive the blood into the arteries, when the same series of phenomena is renewed and repeated in the same succession. The continuance of the heart's action after the circulation has ceased, we have already attempted to explain ; and if these contractions depend upon the presence of a stimulus, they must evidently be in the same order as in the natural state of the organ, as these have not been interrupted. The continuance of the re- gular order of the contractions of the heart after its removal from the body can in general, we think, be satisfactorily accounted for by the substitution of a new stimulant for that of the blood; the cavities are then occu- pied with air instead of blood, and each * We have "not here given Laennec's calculations of the relative duration of the contraction and relaxation of the auricles, as they must be founded on false data—on the supposition that the second sound of the heart marked the duration of the con- traction of the auricles. t This was also the doctrine maintained by Se- nac, op. cit. torn. i. p. 325. Senac, however, was opposed to the doctrine of Haller, that the contrac- tility of the heart was a property inherent in the muscular fibre, and independent of the nerves, Tom. i. p. 451.