INSECTA. 893 occipital foramen to about midway between the corneae, where it becomes much thickened and expanded, and then divides into two portions, which pass forwards and outwards in a dia- gonal direction, to the anterior margin of each cornea. These ridges on the internal surface exactly correspond to the faint indication of the epicranial suture on the external. They serve for the attachment of muscles, and divide the epicranium from the clypeus posterior. At the external angles of these ridges, immediately anterior to the cornea;, are two articulating apo- physes, the most external of which, the torulus (r), is smooth and rounded on its anterior sur- face, and articulates with the broad concave extremity of the scapus] or basial joint of the 'n- antennae, and the external one (g), (cavite coty- loid, Straus,) is smooth, rounded, and con- stricted in its middle, and articulates anteriorly with the superior external condyle of the man- dible, and posteriorly with a process of the lamina, squamosa, (s), which support and pro- tect the brain, and are united with other la- mina; (y) (lames laterales, Straus,) which arise from the inferior surface of the cranium. The torulus (r) is attached externally to the most anterior portion of a thin broad lamina, the orbital plate (w), which extends backwards to the posterior angle of the cornea, in an arched direction, separating the cavity of the orbit from the interior of the cranium, with which it communicates only by means of a round foramen for the passage of the large optic nerve and its trachea;. The superior half of this plate consequently belongs to the epi- cranial, and the inferior to the basilar portion of the skull. Immediately anterior to the epi- cranial suture is situated the clypeus (d), the middle portion of which is smootli and slightly concave, and forms the covering of the ante- rior part of the head. On either side it has a smooth broad inflected margin, which is not included within the interior region of the head. At the anterior margin of the clypeus is arti- culated the freely moveable labrum (e), the under surface of which is smooth and shining, and gives no attachment to muscles, excepting along its posterior margin. The ridge of the epicranial suture is developed to a greater ex- tent in the head of Hydrous than in any other species we have yet examined. Its perfect correspondence with the faint indication of the suture on the exterior of the head clearly in- dicates the boundary of the epicranium, and is of very great importance, as we shall hereafter see, in enabling us to determine the number of segments of which the head is composed. This suture exists in every species we have examined, more or less developed in different individuals. Its existence appears to have been entirely overlooked by Straus-Durckheim in the head of Melolontha, in which, indeed, it is almost obliterated externally, but when the cranium is well cleansed, and then ex- amined by means of transmitted light, a trace of it may still be observed, and its situation internally is indicated by a shallow triangular furrow, which extends backwards from the anterior portion of each orbital plate to within a short distance of the occipital foramen in the middle line, the longitudinal portion being exceedingly short. But in the larva of the same insect the suture is very distinct on the exterior of the epicranium, and the ridges corresponding to the suture are developed on the interior. Anterior to this suture in the same larva is a triangular piece, which is bounded in front by a freely articulating plate, the anterior clypeus. It is the part correspond- ing to this, and which is consolidated witli the true clypeus in the head of Hydrous, as in- dicated by the diagonal depressions before noticed on the external surface of the head, which we shall distinguish in all insects as the clypeus anterior. It will thus be found that in some insects the clypeus anterior and posterior have hitherto been confounded under one name, and in others the clypeus posterior and epicranium.. We believe, however, that these are distinct parts in all insects, but are less readily distin- guished in some than in others. The upper surface of the head is thus shewn to be formed of at least four clearly indicated portions, both in the larva and perfect insect. In the larva of melolontha there is also a slight indication of a fifth segment, of which the antenna;, or ante- rior prolongations of the spinal columns, are in reality the proper appendages. The indication of this segment exists in a triangular line, parallel with, but a little anterior to, the suture behind the clypeus posterior, and in the space included between it and the epicranial suture the antenna; seem to be inserted. But al- though we believe in the existence of the fifth segment in all insects, it must be acknowledged that it is not easily demonstrated. Four seg- ments are, however, readily detected, yet in some species one of these has almost disap- peared. Thus in Geotrupes stercorarius, the epicranial suture has become very indistinct on the upper surface of the head, and the ridges are entirely absent on the interior, as in melo- lontha, while the clypeus posterior exists only as a narrow triangular space, bounded by the suture posteriorly, and anteriorly by a ridge cor- responding to the boundary of the proper an- terior clypeus on the exterior of the head ; the labrum also, as in all insects, being quite dis- tinct. In Lucanus cervus, in which the head has reached its maximum of development, and is much broader than the pro-thorax, there is no indication whatever of the triangular suture in the male, all the parts of the head being firmly consolidated together. But in the female there is a faint depression internally, as in melolon- tha, and the trace of a corresponding line is apparent in some specimens externally. In some specimens of Melde cicatricosus there is a distinct indication of the suture externally, ex- tending from the occipital foramen to near the middle line between the eyes, while internally the ridge is distinctly elevated; but we have not been able to trace the clypeus posterior, which may be supposed to have merged in the largely developed epicranium. In Blaps mor- tisaga the epicranial suture is usually distinct on the upper surface of the head, posterior to