ENTOZOA. testine and dilates into the uterus (/c, fig. 96). The division of this part soon takes place, and the cornua extend with an irregularly wavy course to near the posterior extremity of the body, gradually diminish- ing in size; they are then reflected forwards and form numerous, and apparently inextricable, coils about the two posterior thirds of the intestine. Hunter has successfully unravelled these convolutions, and each of the tubes may be seen in the preparation in the Hunterian Collection to measure upwards of four feet. The generative organs contained in the female, or longer branch of the St/n- gamus trachealis. have a cor- responding structure with those of the Nematoidea. The capillary unbranched ovary and uterus are double, as in Ascaris, Spiroptera, Filaria, and most Stron- gyli. The vulva is in the form of a transverse slit, and is situated at the ante- rior third of the body, im- mediately below the attach- ment of the male branch. In the Nematoidea the male individual is always smaller, and sometimes dis- proportionately so, than the female. At the season of reproduction the anal ex- tremity of the male is at- tached to the vulva of the female by the intromission of the single or double spi- culum, and the adhesion of the surrounding tumid la- bia; and, as the vulva of the female is generally si- tuated at a distance from either extremity of her body, the male has the appearance of a branch or young indi- vidual sent off by gemma- tion, but attached at an acute angle to the body of the female.* In the Heteroura andro- phora of Nitzch (Herscli and Gruber's Encyclopae- die, th. vi. p. 49, and th. ix. * See Figures of Nematoid Entozoa in copulation, in Bremser, Icones Heluiinthum tab. iii. fig. 8. 15. ; and Gurlt, Lehrbuch der Patholog : Ana- tomic der Haus-Saiigethiere, tab. vi. fig. 35. taf. 3. f. 7.) the male maintains a'n habitual con- nexion with the female, which lias a horny pre- hensile process for the purpose of retaining the male in this position. Here there is no conflu- ence of the substance of the bodies of the two sexes; the individuals are distinct in their su- perficies as in their internal organization. But this singular species offers the transitional grade to that still more extraordinary Entozoon, the Syrtgamus trachealis, in which the male is orga- nically blended by its caudal extremity with the female, immediately anterior to the slit-shaped aperture of the vulva, which is situated as usual near the anterior third of the body. By this union a kind of hermaphroditism is produced; but the male apparatus is furnished with its own peculiar nutrient system ; and an indivi- dual animal is constituted distinct in every respect, save in its terminal confluence, with the body of the female. This condition of animal life, which was conceived by Hunter as within the circle of physiological possibilities, (see Anim. (Economy, p. 46,) has hitherto been only exemplified in this single species of Ento- zoon ; the discovery of the true nature of which is due to the sagacity and patient research of Dr. Charles Theodore Von Siebold. The Entozoa of the parenchymatous class are chiefly oviparous, those of the cavitary class for the most part ovoviviparous. The germinal vesicle has not yet been dis- covered in the vitelline substance of the ova of the Acantlwcephata, Trematodu, or Ces- toidca; but it is distinctly discernible in the ova of the Nematoidea; I have also observed and have figured it in the highly organized ovum of the Linguatula tcenioides. The ova of the Tcenice present considerable varieties of size and form in different species ; Rudolphi has figured seven forms of these ova in the Synopsis Entozoorum, (tab. iii.)* Some are much elongated and pointed at both extremities, others elliptical: the ova of the Bothriocep/ialus lutus are of the latter form, (L, fig 89); those of the Tcenia solium are sphe- rical, as are also the ova of Tcenia jilifor mis. In some species the development of the em- bryo Tape-worm has been observed to have distinctly commenced in the undischarged ova, as in the Tcenia polymorpha. In dissecting a Touraco infested by the 'Tcenia filiformis, we found that the segments of the Taenia in which the ova were most developed had been de- tached from the rest of the body, a process remarkably analogous to that which takes place in the Lernece and Entomostraca, where the external ovaries are cast off, when charged with mature ova. A few of the Trematode Entozoa, as the Monostoma mutabile, produce the young alive ; but these have a very different form from the parent. It would seem that they were des- tined to pass a transitional state of their ex- istence in a fluid medium permeated by light, since two coloured ocelli have been discovered on the head, and the surface of the body is beset with locomotive vibratile cilia.f * Synopsis Entoz. p. 505, pi. iii. fig. 10, 11. f See Siebold, in Wcigmann's Archiv. 1835.