359 MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. are employed in the movements of the foot and its several portions, and classify them ac- cording to the joints upon which they act and the movements they produce. "1. Flexion accomplished by " The motions of the ankle- joint are •< 2> Extension performed .by rl. Downwards and in wards accomplished by ." The motions between the first and second row ofW tarsal bones* are . . . U s , by 1. Flexion performed by 4. 5. 2. Extension by The motions of the toes are-< 3. Abduction by 4. Adduction by In this table we are struck with the propor- tion which the antagonist muscles bear to each other, both in numbers and in individual as well as collective power. This proportion is of course regulated by the demand for muscular force in the ordinary movements of the joints. The extension of the ankle, in the most ordi- nary mode of its performance, implies the lift- ing of the whole weight of the body by the elevation of the heel, the toes resting upon the ground. This, owing to the unequal length of the two levers, requires an immense power, while the shortness of the moveable lever allows of very little extent of motion. The gastro- * It is remarkable that so original and accurate an observer as Dr. Barclay should attribute this motion to the ankle-joint, and sliould deny any motion, more than a mere yielding, to any of the tarsal bones. But it is still more surprising that he should make the same observation of the carpus, when so very considerable a part of the ordinary motion at the wrist is obviously between the two rows of carpal bones. See Barclay on Muscular Motion, pp. 404, 447. Tibialis anticus. Peroneus tertius. Extensor longus digitorum. Extensor proprius pcfflrcis. Gastrocnemius externus. Gastrocnemius internus. Plantaris. Flexor longus digitorum. Flexor longus pollicis. Tibialis posticus. Peroneus longus. Peroneus brevis. Tibialis posticus. Extensor proprius pollicis. Flexor longus digitorum. Flexor longus pollicis. Peroneus Longus. Peroneus brevis. Peroneus tertius. Extensor longus digitorum. Flexor longus pollicis. Flexor brevis pollicis. Flexor longus digitorum. Flexor brevis digitorum. Flexor accessorius digitorum. Lumbricales. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Extensor proprius pollicis. Extensor longus digitorum. Extensor brevis digitorum. Abductor pollicis. Abductor minimi digiti. f Pri< I Prk (_ Prior tertii digiti. . Adductor pollicis. . Transversalis. {Prior minimi digiti. Posterior indicis. Posterior meda digiti. . Posterior tertii digiti. cnetnii are accordingly thick short muscles, with a long and powerful tendon. These are assisted by the plantaris and five other muscles. Flexion, on the contrary, which generally im- plies merely the elevation of the foot, without any other force to overcome, is adequately provided for by only four muscles, and these not large, indeed one of them very small. The assistance rendered by the five auxiliary muscles, which pass behind the malleoli, though considerable on the whole, yet is small individually in proportion to their size, owing to the disadvantageous situation which their tendons occupy at so very short a distance from the centre of motion ; for this reason,—when the tendo Achillis is ruptured, the patient is as incapable of walking as if all the extensor muscles were divided, yet when the body is resting the antagonism of the extensors is not entirely lost. The foot is not permanently bent upwards, and the simple act of extension can be accomplished without great difficulty. One of the most remarkable of all the extensor muscles, both as to its course and its function, rior indicis. InterosseH Prior medii digiti.