INSECTA. 966 longitudinal vessels can be discovered in the muscular coat, but we have never been able to observe them. The muscular coat is most distinct in the proventriculus or gizzard, the ventrkulus or digestive stomach, and the colon, but may be traced throughout the whole of the canal. The longitudinal and transverse fibres are each developed to a greater or less extent in different insects; in some, more especially in the larva state, as in the Lepidoptera, the longi- tudinal fibres form six strong bands, arranged at equal distances around the canal, and ex- tended from one extremity of it to the other, more or less developed in different parts of their course; while in other instances, more particularly in the perfect state, the circular fibres are most developed, as in the Hymenop- tera, in which the longitudinal fibres on the stomach are scarcely observable. The mucous, or internal coat, analogous to the mucous coat in the higher animals, is divided into two layers, each of which has been consi- dered as a distinct structure by different anato- mists. The most internal of these layers forms the proper lining of the alimentary canal, and is a smooth soft membrane, particularly distinct in the upper part of the canal, but less so in the lower. It is continuous with the lining of the mouth and pharynx, and is often plaited or folded longitudinally, but seldom trans- versely, excepting where it covers a fold of the other structures to form a valve at any part of the canal. It is this membrane which is often solidified at the upper part of the canal, and developed into rows of strong horny teeth, as in the Orthoptera and some carnivorous Co- leoptera, or is covered entirely with exceedingly minute ones over its whole surface, as is parti- cularly the case in Gryllus migrutorius. In some instances it is very loosely attached, and forms, as it were, a soft and easily separated lining to the canal, more particularly in the venlriculus, as in the MeToe and some other genera. The other layer of this coal, which has been regarded as a distinct structure, is situ- ated between the proper mucous or lining membrane and the muscular coat. It is this layer which is considered by Straus as the pro- per skin or lining. It is usually thin, floccu- lent, and frequently without indications of dis- tinct texture, although it is occasionally found to possess it, as shewn by Burmeister in Hi/dro- philtis. Straus has sometimes observed horny prominences in it, which he considers of a glandular nature. The markings in Hydrophi- lus appear to be of the same description. liam- dohr mistook this layer for a layer of transuded chyle; Straus and Burmeister regard it as per- fectly distinct from the mucous coat, and Pro- fessor Grant in alluding to it seems to regard it as a loose intermediate cellular tissue.* This is our own opinion also of its nature, because we have been unable to trace it as a distinct layer throughout the whole of the canal. It exists most distinct in the ventriculitis', but we have not been able to trace it in the colon, ex- cepting, perhaps, in the Lepidoptera, in which it appears to be what we have regarded as an * Outlines of Comparative Anatomy, p. 349. adipose coal. The inner or true mucous layer is very distinct, and in some, as in Cerura vi- nula, is covered with minute rounded glands. The alimentary canal is retained in its position in the body partly by means of the re- tractores ventriculi, which we have observed most distinctly in the larva? of Diptera, as in Eristalis tenax, as well as in Lepidoptera and others ; but more especially by means of rami- fications of the tracheal vessels, which pass from the great longitudinal trachea?, near the spiracles, and are distributed in profusion over the alimentary canal throughout its whole course. Burmeister says that a peritonaeum, such as retains the intestines in their place in the higher animals, does not exist in insects. This, however, as we have above shewn, is not strictly the case, since a peritonoeum certainly exists as a coat of the alimentary canal, al- though we have never been able to observe it forming, as stated by Professor Grant,* "a distinct thin mesentery," connecting the con- volutions of the intestines with the interior of the abdominal segments. The parts of the alimentary canal are the mouth and pharynx, the (Esophagus, (jig- 424, h,) and, in the Lepidoptera, (jig. 430, t,) Ilymen- optera, and Diptera, the crop, which is a dila- tation of the oesophagus carried to so great an extent as to form a distinct appendicular cavity ; the proventriculus or gizzard (t), the venlri- culus or proper digestive stomach (/c), the ilium or short intestine (/), and the colon (m, n) and rectum (p). These exist in the most developed form of the canal, but not in- variably or to the same extent in every insect. The crop is frequently absent, as are also the proventriculus and the rectum, but the remain- ing parts are almost constantly present. Be- sides these as forming parts of the digestive apparatus, there are the appendicular struc- tures, consisting of the salivary glands (a), the gastric (a,b,c), and the so-called biliary (p) and the anal vessels (s). Of these the sup- posed biliary vessels are almost constantly pre- sent, and less frequently the salivary and gastric, and least frequently the anal vessels, which have not been observed in many species. Alimentary canal of the larva.—The most simple form of alimentary canal we have yet met with in insects exists in apodal larvse of parasitic Ilymenoptera, as in Ichneumon Alropos, which undergoes all its changes within the cavity of the abdomen, between the alimentary canal and muscular structures of the larva and pupa of Sphinx liguslri or Acherontia Atropos. It consists simply of an elongated sac, very much dilated, and greatly resembling a Florence flask, and occupies nearly the whole of the interior of the body of the parasite. The oesophagus is short and very distinct, and termi- nates in the second segment in a well-deve- loped valve formed by a duplicate of the mu- cous and muscular coats. Behind this the whole forms one dilated continuous cavity, ex- tended as far as the anal segment, but com- pletely imperforate and slightly intussuscepted at its extremity, where,when the partis carefully * Id. loc. cit.