727 HERMAPHRODITISM. on each side ; and Hunter* alludes to the occa- sional occurrence of an imperfect supernumerary vas deferens. In 1833 a case of a doable human uterus, furnished with four Fallopian tubes and four ovaries, was shewn by Professor Moureau to the Academie de Medecine.f BlasiusJ dissected the body of a man on whom he detected the co-existence of three testicles; the additional testicle was of the natural form and size, and was furnished with a spermatic artery and vein that joined in the usual manner the aorta and vena cava; it lay in the right side of the scrotum. Arnaud found, on dissection, three testicles in a dog; the third was placed in the abdomen, and of the natural consistence, figure, and size; it was furnished with a vas deferens.§ Other instances of triple and quadruple testicles of a more doubtful charac- ter, inasmuch as the observations made during life were not confirmed by dissection after death, are related by Voigtel,|| Sibbern,1[ Brown,*"* Rennes,ff and others.f]; ScharfT§§ even gives an alleged case of a man with five testicles, three of which are stated to have been well formed, while the other two were much smaller than natural. And, lastly, Loder|||| is said to have exhibited to the Goettin- gen Academy drawings taken from the body of a male infant, on whom all the sexual apparatus existed double, there being two penes, a double scrotum, and urinary bladder, and, as it was supposed, four testicles. In all the preceding instances the local duplicity of the particular reproductive and other organs adverted to existed independently of any duplicity in the body in general, or in any other individual parts of it. And if we once admit, (what the preceding instances will scarcely allow us to deny,) that there may occur a duplicity of some of the male sexual organs in a male, or of some of the female sexual organs in a female, it is certainly easy to go one step farther, and admit that the double organ or organs may, however rarely, be formed in other instances upon an opposite sexual type. Indeed all our knowledge of the unity of structure and development between the various analogous male and female repro- ductive organs, as well as the fact of the occa- sional replacement of an organ of the one sex by that of the other in cases in which the sexual type is entirely single (as seen in instances of lateral hermaphroditism), would lead us a priori to suppose that, if a local duplicity in any of the sexual oi trans was liable to occur, this duplicity would sometimes shew itself in the double organs assuming opposite * Bell's Anatomy, vol. iii. p. 428. t Journ. Hebdom. torn. x. p. 160. i Ubs. Med. pars iv. obs. 20. § Mem. de Chirurg. s. i. p. 131. (J Handbuch der Path. Anat. Bd. iii. s. 393. If Acta Hafn. torn. i. p. 320. ** New York Medical Repository, vol. iv. p. 801. ft Arch. Gen. de Med. t. xxiii. p. 17. tt See Haller's El. Phys. torn. v. p. 411, 12.— and Arnaud's Chem. de Chirurg. t. i. p. 128, &c. v4 Eph. Nat. Cur. Dec. iii. Ami. v. vi. obs. 89. |||| Gbttingen Anz. 1802, p. 466. sexual characters, and thus constituting some of those varieties of double or vertical her- maphroditism that we have already had occa- sion to describe. In the preceding observations we have pro- ceeded upon the opinion commonly received by physiologists, of the fundamental unity of sex among all individuals belonging to the higher orders of animals; or, to express it otherwise, we have assumed that each individual is, when normally formed, originally furnished with elemental parts capable of forming one set of sexual organs only. We do not here stop to inquire whether this single sexual type is, in all embryos, originally female, as main- tained by Rosenmiiller, Meckel, Blainville, Grant, and others; or, of a neutral or inter- mediate character, as supposed by the St. Hilaires, Sevres, Ackermann, Home, &c, and as we are certain'y ourselves inclined to believe it.* On this subject, however, a physiological doctrine of a different kind has been brought forward by Dr. Knox, and this doctrine is so intimately connected with the question of the nature and origin of true hermaphrodites, that we must here briefly consider it. Dr. Knox,f in conformity with some more general views which he entertains on tran- scendental anatomy, is inclined to regard the type of the genital organs in man and the higher animals, as in the embryo, originally hermaph- roditic, or as comprising elementary yet dis- tinct parts, out of which both sets of sexual organs could be formed ; and lie believes that, owing to particular but unknown circum- stances, either the one or the other only of these sets of elements comes to be evolved in the normal course of development. In those abnormal cases, again, in which, as in instances of double hermaphroditism, more or fewer of both sets of genital organs are present upon the same individual, he maintains that this is not to be considered as a malformation by duplicity, but is only a permanent condition of the original double sexual type, and is attri- butable to the simultaneous development to a * Meckel (De Duplicitate Monsirosa, p. 14), and Andrnl (Anat. l ath. torn. i. p. 101) assume it, after Haller, as a fact, that a much larger pio- portion of monsters belong to the female than to the male sex ; and while they attribute this circum- stance to the genital organs in these beings retain- ing, from the general defect of development, their original female sexual character, they at the same time consider this circumstance to be strongly corroborative of this particular doctrine. Isid. St. Hilaire has shewn (Hist, des Anomal. t. iii. p. 387) that the supposed fact itself does not hold true in respect to some genera of monsters, and is even reversed in others; and he doubts if it be of such a degree of generality in respect to mon- sters in general as to merit to be raised into a teratological law. If the views of Meckel were correct, we should certainly expect at least that spurious hermaphroditism, where the development of the sexual parts is commonly abnormal from defect, should be much more frequent in the female than in the male. The list, however, of recorded cases of it in the latter is, we believe, more than double the number of it in the former. + Brewster's Edinburgh Journal of Science, vol. ii. p. 322.