* Phil. Trans, p. 2, 1837. oscillations, of which he observed, in one in- Now the opinion to which we have been led by our examinations of dried specimens, as we have not been so fortunate as to obtain living ones, since the commencement of these observations, is, that every nervure contains a distinct tra- cheal or air-bearing vessel, and that the free transparent space by which it is surrounded, and which is not discoverable by the naked eye, but only by the microscope, constitutes alone the proper circulatory passage; that the trachea;, which are obvious to' the naked eye, do not simply lie loosely in these spaces, but that the spaces lie chiefly at their sides and under-surface. These opinions have been de- rived from examinations of transverse sections of the wings of the Chrt/sopa, at parts in which, on a previous examination of the surface of the wing, we have seen both trachea? and the spaces around them. On cutting the wing across at these parts, and then examining the edges, we have invariably found the trachea? hollow, unyielding tubes, while the free spaces on each side, which appear as if bounded by the upper and under membrane of the wing, have appeared collapsed, and almost or com- pletely closed, so as scarcely to exhibit any appearance of hollow spaces. On examining the wing of a dried specimen of one of the Lepidoptera, Gonepteryx Rhamni, by trans- verse sections, we have in every instance found the nervures formed of hollow unyielding tubes, with all the characters of true tracheal vessels, but have not been able to detect the proper circulatory spaces at the sides of these nervures, most probably owing to their dried and col- lapsed state. From these facts we are led to express an opinion which has been long enter- tained by us, that the course of the blood, whether simply along intercellular spaces, or bounded by distinct vessels, is almost inva- riably in immediate connexion with the course of the tracheae. This opinion is founded upon the circumstance that nearly all the observations that have hitherto been made have shown that the currents of blood in the body of an insect are often in the vicinity of the great tracheal vessels, both in their longitudinal and transverse direc- tion across the segments, and it is further strength- ened by Mr. Boweibank's observations on the course of the blood in the wings. During his observations Mr. Bowerbank observes that he " has used every endeavour to discover, if pos- sible, whether the blood has proper vessels, or only occupied the internal cavities of the ca- nals ; and that he is convinced that the latter is the case, as he could frequently perceive the particles not only surrounding all parts of the trachea;, and occupying the whole of the in- ternal diameter of the canals, but it frequently happens that globules experienced a momen- tary stoppage in their progress, occasioned by their friction against the curved surface of the tracheae, which sometimes gave them a rotatory motion." He remarks also that the usual course of the blood through the canals is in one conti- nued stream, without pulsatory motion, ex- cepting only when the insect under examination is struggling to escape, when the continuity of the stream is broken, and there are occasional CTA. 981 stance, in a vessel within a space or about one- fiftieth of an inch, twenty-one oscillations in a minute; and in another, in the same space, so many as eighty-four. He observed also in in- sects that had been captured and in confine- ment for several days, that the motions of the fluid became exceedingly languid and almost entirely ceased. The se observations are exceed- ingly interesting in reference to the genera! velocity of the circulation, and the means by which it is carried on in the wings. The entire absence of pulsations is remarkable, as it com- pletely identifies these vessels as veins, since it is well known that the circulation is carried on through the body by means of regular pulsa- tions of the dorsal vessel. The number of these latter pulsations varies greatly in different insects. Thus llerold found from thirty to forty in a minute in a full-grown caterpillar, and from forty-six to forty-eight in a mucli younger one; Suckow ob- served but thirty, in the same space of time, in a full-grown caterpillar of Qastropacha pini, and eighteen only in its pupa state. But in one in- stance, when the insect was in a state of the most violent excitement, we have counted one hundred and forty-two in a female of Anthophora re- turn. In a number of these insects captured just after they had left their hybernacula in the month of April, and confined for some time in a breeding-cage, we have found that the num- ber of pulsations varies, as might, a priori, be supposed, according to their state of excite- ment. Thus on exposing the dorsal vessel in the morning, before the insects had been excited, we found the number of pulsations was about eighty per minute; at ten o'clock, when they had become active, the number of pulsations ranged from one hundred to one hundred and ten; but at three o'clock in the afternoon, when the insects were quite lively, and had been exposed to the sun for an hour or two, the number of pulsations amounted to one hundred and forty; while on another occasion, on a cold dull morning, when the bees were languid, the number of pulsations did not exceed seventv- five in any specimen that was examined. It has usually been supposed, since the discovery of a circulation in insects, that the pulsations are more frequent in the larva than the perfect state; but this certainly is not the case, if the mean number of observations in the two states be compared. Thus in a series of observations made by us on the Sphinx ligustri,* from the fourth day after the larva had left the egg until the perfect insect was developed, it was found that before the larva cast its first skin the mean number of pulsations, in a state of moderate activity and quietude, was about eighty-two or three per minute ; before casting its second skin eighty-nine ; while before casting its third it had sunk down to sixty-three ; and before its fourth to forty-five, while previously to leaving its fourth, and before it had ceased to feed, pre- paratory to entering the pupa state, it was not more than thirty-nine. Thus the number gra- dually decreases during the growing larva state, but the force of the circulation is very much augmented. Now when the insect is in a state