18 OF PUTREFACTION. that have been removed, may be restored by a process of gmwth in the plant or animal, and in some animals the reproductive power is so energetic, that if an individual be divided, each segment will become a perfect being. This power of reproduction is greater, the more simple the struc- ture of the organized body; the more similar to each other are the constituent parts, the more easy will reproduction be. Numerous examples of this power may be adduced, — the healing of woimds, the adhesion of divided parts are familiar to every one. New individuals are developed from the cutting of plants: the division of the hydra into two, gives rise to the production of two new individuals. If a Planaria be cut into eight or ten parts, according to Duges, each part will assume an independent existence. The power of reproducing single parts only, is possessed by animals higher in the scale. In snails, part of the head, with the antennas, may be reproduced, provided the section have been made so as not to injure the cerebral ganglion. Crabs and lobsters can regenerate their claws, when the separation has taken place at an articulation; and spiders enjoy the same power. In lizards, the tail, or a limb, can be restored, and in salamanders the same phenomenon has been frequently wit- nessed ; and even in man certain tissues may be reproduced. In the reproduction of lost parts, it must be borne in mind that changes precisely similar to those which take place during the development of the textures in the embryo, occur; in fact, the new tissues are developed from amorphous living matter. In all cases masses of simple structureless germinal matter exist, and grow, and multiply before any form or structure is manifested. Of Putrefaction.—Dead organized matter is speedily dis- sipated under certain conditions. These are the presence of air, moisture, and a certain temperature, or contact with an organic substance which is itself undergoing decomposition. The con- ditions under which the integrity of the organic substance was preserved, have become altered, it is destroyed, and its elements are set free to obey new affinities and form new compounds. When we consider the large number of equivalents which enter into the formation of each molecule of organic compounds, it need not excite surprise that a great variety of products results from the decomposition of animal and vegetable matter.