229 OF CARTILAGE. will exhibit a sharp outline. This has been considered to indi- cate the existence of a " cell-wall." The masses of germinal matter at first are very close toge- ther ; they divide and subdivide as they lie in the soft formed material, and, as development proceeds, become separated from each other by gradually increasing intervals. At the same time, the formed material undergoes slow condensation, and the formation of new formed material on the surface of each mass of germinal matter more than compensates for the sin-inking of the already-formed matrix, which takes place. Each of these masses of germinal matter divides and subdivides, and formed material is produced on the outer surface of each, so that there are small collections of masses of germinal matter separated from each other by a considerable extent of formed material in the shape of fully-formed cartilage, while the separate masses composing each collection are themselves separated from each other by a very thin layer of recently produced and much softer formed material, fig. 131, pi. XV a, b, c, d. Thus the gradual con- densation of the first produced formed material proceeds without shrinking of the entire mass, and without the formation of large cavities. The division and subdivision of the original masses of germinal matter proceed, and the formation of new formed material advances, but more and more slowly, as the conden- sation of that already produced goes on. For some time the entire mass of cartilage continues to increase in bulk, and at the same time becomes less permeable to nutrient fluids. The masses of germinal matter of cartilage differ in form in different varieties of cartilage, and in the same kind at different ages. As in all other tissues, at the earliest period of development they are spherical, and in some instances this form is retained throughout life, but more commonly they become oval or of an irregular ovate shape. Not a few, especially in growing cartilage, when division is proceeding, are like a hemisphere, fig. 141, b, pi. XVI. Sometimes they are angular, fig. 140, pi. XVI, or of very irregular form. At certain periods of growth, some appear as rings, as represented in figs. 137, 138, pi. XVI, or of semilunar form. The mode of production of these last forms will be under- stood by reference to figs. 135,137, 141, pi. XVI. But the most remarkable shape which the masses of germinal matter of car-