RICKETS. 239 pointed out some interesting particulars as to the relative proportions of these elements in the composition of different bones. The long bones of the extremities have, according to Dr. Rees' analyses, more earthy matter than the bones of the trunk. The bones of the upper extremity have a larger pro- portion of the same material than those of the corresponding bones in the lower; the humerus has more than the radius and ulna; the femur more than the tibia and fibula; while the bones of the fore-arm, as well as those of the leg, are respectively alike in constitution. The vertebras, ribs, and clavicles are similarly constituted. The ilium has more earthy matter than the scapula or sternum; the bones of the head have more of this material than those of the trunk. In the foetus the same law prevails as regards the relative quantity of the earthy matter, excepting that the long bones, and the cranial bones, do not contain the excess of earthy matter which characterizes them in the adult. The diseased state, called Rickets, so common in the children of scrofulous parents, and in the ill-nourished ones of the lower orders, consists in a deficient deposit of earthy matter; the animal matter being probably of an unhealthy quality. In this disease the bones are so flexible, that they may bend under the weight that they are called on to support, or under the action of the muscles. The lower extremities exhibit deformity first, and to the greatest degree, and the direction in which they become bent is evidently influenced by the superimposed weight; the bend almost always appears as an aggravation of the natural curves of the bones. The rickety femur has always its convexity directed forwards; the tibia is convex forwards and outwards, and the fibula follows the same direction. When the nutritive powers of the system are fully restored, the deposition of earthy matter goes on in its healthy proportion, the animal matter becomes healthy, and the bones acquire their due degree of strength and hard- ness. In the tibia of a rickety child, Dr. Davy found, in 100 parts, 74 parts animal matter, and 26 earthy; and Dr. Bostock found in the vertebra of a similar subject 79-75 animal, and 20*25 earthy. The brittleness of the bones in old age is due to an opposite cause, namely, the gradual removal of animal matter, so that