13 DIFFUSION. OSMOSE. formance of certain functions, we see the strongest evidence of Design; and, amidst much apparent difference of form and obvious diversity of purpose, the anatomist recognizes a re- markable unity of plan—affording incontestable proof that the whole was devised by One Mind, infinite in wisdom, unlimited in resource. Of the Functions.—The various processes by which are effected the ceaseless motion and changes so characteristic of living beings, are called in Physiological language, functions. The function is the work, or duty, or office in the economy per- formed or discharged by a particular tissue or organ. Con- traction is the function of muscle; the secretion of bile is the function discharged by the liver; the secretion of urine that of the kidney. Digestion, or the operation of dissolving the food, is the function of the stomach, &c. The functions may be divided into two great classes: 1. The vegetative functions; and 2. The animal functions. The first class may be further sub- divided into the nutritive functions which are connected with the preservation of the individual; and the function of generation, which is concerned in the propagation of the species. The functions specially characteristic of man and the higher animals are locomotion and innervation. They have been termed the animal functions—a definition which is not strictly accmate, but, nevertheless, practically advantageous. Physical processes occurring in cells. Of Diffusion. Osmose, and of the Colloid state.—Physical changes of the utmost im- portance occur in connection with the various processes taking place in the elementary parts or cells of living organisms. By diffusion is understood the tendency which one fluid or gas manifests to mix intimately with another. Even if the specific gravity of a fluid below be far higher than that of one which is above, the latter will gradually pass upwards and the former downwards until they are equally diffused through, and inti- mately mixed with, each other. This tendency, therefore, does not depend upon specific gravity, but upon some peculiar pro- perties of the matter itself. A solution of common salt has a diffusive power nearly twenty times as great as a solution of albumen of equal strength. Closely related to the physical process of diffusion is osmose, in which the two fluids or gases are separated from one another