78 THE SIMPLE CELL. From what has been already remarked it will have been inferred that the thickness which the formed material or cell membrane attains is determined mainly by the external cir- cumstances to which the living matter is exposed. If pabu- lum be abundant and external conditions (temperature, mois- ture, &c.) favourable, it passes through the thin external mem- brane and the living matter increases rapidly. If, on the other hand, external conditions be unfavourable, a less proportion of pabulum passes through the membrane, and at the same time the unfavourable conditions cause the death of the living matter v\dthin, layer after layer, until at last such a condition as that represented in figs. 17 and 18 results. It will be observed that the living matter is now reduced to a veiy small quantity and that the less this becomes, the more strongly is that which remains protected by the increasing thickness of the envelope. Now, if the cell in the state above referred to be exposed to the influence of a moderate temperature and moist atmosphere, and be placed under circumstances favourable to growth, the external membrane will become softened and expand. Under the influence of heat and moisture, the hard tissue will be rendered more readily permeable, and pabuhun will reach the germinal matter in the interior more easily. The proportion of living matter increases, and portions make then way through natural pores now opened, fig. 17, or through chance fissures hi the softened envelope, and protrude from the free surface, fig. 18. A very tliin layer of the formed matter being produced on the surface of these protrusions, they are freely supplied with pabu^ lum, which readily permeates the thin layers of formed material, and grow very quickly; and a vast extent of vegetable tissue may be produced, from what was at first a very minute particle of living matter, figs. 17, 19. From the above observations it seems clear that the formed material of which the envelope is composed residts from the death of the living matter. This passive formed material was, in fact, once germinal matter, and in many structures, especially at an early period of development, we may demonstrate the continuity of the germinal matter with the formed material. The successive layers of formed material are often very distinctly seen in vegetable tissues, as, for example, in the sea-weed, fig. 21. The oldest tissue is most external, and this now dead