150 CHEMICAL CONSTITUENTS OP NERVE. has only been found in the muscular tissue of the heart in animals (Lehmann). Kidney-beans contain about 0"75 per cent., when unripe. Inosic acid (C10H14N40U?) is not crystalline, but forms crystallisable salts with the alkalies. Phosphoric, Lactic, and Butyric acids, obtained from the juice of flesh, have the same characters as those acids obtained from other animal fluids. The fatty matters contain olein, palmitin and stearin, with oleo-phosphoric acid (Valenciennes and Fremy). The ash of flesh contains phosphate and sulphate of potash, chloride of potassium, earthy phosphates, and iron. Nerve.—The nervous tissues consist principally of an albu- minous substance combined with peculiar fatty materials, perhaps partially dissolved as soaps. The nerve cells contain more water and albuminous matter, but much less fatty matter, than the nerve fibres in connection with them, and at an early period of development the proportion of fatty matter present in the nervous system is very small. The tubular membrane, or nerve sheath, is composed of a substance nearly allied to elastic tissue in composition. It appears probable that the albumino-fatty material existing in such large proportion in the medullary sheath, or white substance of Schwann, accu- mulates as the nerve fibres advance towards their fully deve- loped condition. This fatty substance seems to form a pro- tective covering to the axis cylinder within, and probably acts as an insulator, by which currents passing along neighbouring axis cylinders are prevented from acting and reacting upon one another by induction. The fact that this fatty matter of the white substance is neither formed nor removed under the same circumstances as the fats of adipose tissue, would seem to show that its relation to the ordinary changes occurring in the body is of a very different kind from that of the ordinary fats. The axis cylinder of the nerve, which, like other textures, is formed from germinal matter, consists of a substance allied in its chemical properties to yellow elastic tissue. It seems a very passive kind of formed material, and at any rate in many instances resists the action of chemical reagents, which com- pletely destroy many other tissues. The nerve textures contain, besides oixlinary albumen, modifications of albuminous matters, which are not precipitated