123 FIBRIN OF BLOOD. red corpuscles, which are being slowly moved across the field by the cm-rents in the fluid produced by the unequal pressure of the thin glass cover. The appearance may be compared to that seen in the fluid circulating in the cell of vallisneria, except that in this latter innumerable and excessively minute spherical, colourless particles can be discerned; while although many very transparent and scarcely visible corpuscles may be seen in the blood, the fluid does not appear to be almost entirely composed of minute spherical particles, moving about one another as in vallisneria. This film-like appearance is gradually succeeded by the formation of delicate threads, which are seen to cross one another at various angles, and apparently correspond to the lines which the blood corpuscles have traversed as they have moved about the field (plate V, fig. 44). The lines seem to acquire greater density and increase in refractive power for some time after they were first visible. I have never been able to demonstrate that the lines are formed by the actual coalescence and limning together of minute particles. It seems to me more probable that the coagulable matter exists in the first instance as a highly diffused plasma, probably formed by the white blood corpuscles, and the smaller colourless corpuscles allied to them, which gradually separates from the serum with which it was originally united, and contracts until it acquires sufficient density and refractive power to be seen by us. During the process of coagulation many of the red corpuscles are seen to become stellate, and these refract more highly, are more dense and are of much less diameter than those which retain their smooth surface, and even, circular, outline. In this change, fluid, containing globulin (?), probably escapes. That fibrin may be formed directly from the white blood corpus- cles seems to be proved by the fact that if a white blood corpuscle, which has become attached to a little elevation or depression upon the surface of the glass, be caused to move in one direction away from its point of attachment, it will develop a narrow thread, which gradually increases in length and appears to be drawn out from the corpuscle. It becomes firmer, and more highly refracting. This thread exhibits all the characters of fibrin, and is probably composed of this substance (fig. 45). In many cases the white blood corpuscles throw out exceedingly