3 HYPOTHESES. has been proved to occur in all cases, where substances pos- sessed of strong chemical attractions, or different electrical relations, are brought within mutual influence. The ultimate fact thus arrived at is, that intense chemical combination always gives rise to the evolution of heat, and, in many instances, to that of light also. Again, a great number of observations have shewn that bodies combine together only in certain quantities, or in multi- ples of them; that each body has its proper combining quan- tity, and that it never enters into combination except in that quantity, or some multiple of it. This is an ultimate fact, ascer- tained by numerous experiments, and indicates the law, which is so important in chemistry, that bodies unite with each other in then combining proportions only, or in multiples of them, and in no intermediate proportions. And this, again, has led to the beautiful generalization of Dalton, that the ultimate atoms of bodies are their respective combining quantities, and bear to each other the same proportion as their combining equivalents do. Or, to take an example from the science which is to form the subject of the following pages. The function of respiration in animals is a very complex process, respecting the nature of which many unsatisfactory hypotheses had been formed, owing to the obscurity in which many of the phenomena, immediately or remotely connected with it, were involved. Until the law of the diffusion of gases, and of the permeability of membranes by them, had been developed, and until it had been shewn that carbonic acid is held in solution in venous blood, no theory of respiration could be framed adequate to explain all the pheno- mena. It is now proved, that, in this process, a time interchange of gases takes place through the coats of the pidmonary blood- vessels, the oxygen of the air passing through and occupying the place of the carbonic acid of the blood while the latter is diffused into the air in the pulmonary vesicles. An 'admirable example is thus afforded of a process most important to life taking place in obedience to a purely physical law. Living objects are those which properly belong to the science of Physiology. These are strongly contrasted with the inanimate bodies (which have never lived), to which other branches of natural science refer. At the same time, there are many points of resemblance between them; and as both owe their B 2