117 ALBUMEN. are found in the aqueous and vitreous humours of the eye. It is present in the various kinds of serum and in pus, poured out under various circumstances, and formed in the course of disease. Albumen contains in 100 parts C 53'5 H 7-0 N 15-5 0 22 4 S 1-6. It exhibits no tendency to assume spontaneously the solid form, except by the loss of the water which is com- bined with it. By evaporating white of eggs, at a temperature not exceeding 120°, its water is driven off, and solid albumen, in the form of a yellowish transparent brittle mass, is obtained, with all its properties unimpaired. If a solution of albumen, in water, be exposed to a heat between 140° and 150°, it coagulates, and then becomes insoluble in water. Albuminous solutions are alkaline, and it is probable that at least a portion of the alkali is chemically combined. The mineral acids have the property of coagulating albumen. Of these, the nitric is most used in medical practice. A few drops of this acid will enable us to detect a small quantity of albumen dissolved in a clear fluid, by rendering it more or less opaque. Alcohol also has this property; and hence any albu- minous textures submitted to its influence, become hardened and condensed. Bichloride of mercury exercises a similar in- fluence, and is a delicate test for albumen. It was Orfila who first employed this proximate principle as an antidote to the poisonous effects of the bichloride, which combines with the albumen, forming with it an innocuous compound. Accord- ing to Peschier, the white of one egg is sufficient to render four grains of the poison harmless. Another delicate test for albu- men is the ferrocyanide of potassium, which will precipitate it from solution, provided a little acetic acid have been previously added, in order to neutralize the soda in combination with it. Albumen is also precipitated from solution by tannin. It coagu- lates at the negative pole of the galvanic battery, or at both poles, when a strong battery is employed. Many other re- agents will coagulate this principle, but enough have been men- tioned for all practical purposes. Albumen is soluble in caustic alkalies. By prolonged boiling in hydrochloric acid albumen is resolved into a substance allied to chondrin. The existence of sulphur as a constituent of albumen, is shown by the blackening of silver that has remained long in contact with it, or by boiling a little albumen in a solution of oxide of lead in potash.