FORMATION OP MEDULLARY CAVITY. 279 been most conclusively demonstrated, and in all probability, they afterwards multiply and produce the " myeloid cells " which take part in the formation of walls of the cancelli, and the bony spicules in the medullary cavity, while others degenerate and only produce the marrow fat cells, as already stated. These active changes could not occur unless the bioplasts were freely supplied with nutrient matter. We find that the blood supply t(» the soft temporary bone is abundant. Capillary vessels are indeed more numerous while the temporary bone is undergoing disintegration than they are in the original cartilage. It will no doubt have occurred to the reader to ask if every cell in the temporary cartilage and in the ossifying fibrous matrix is represented by a lacuna in the perfect bone ? From what I have seen I think it probable that, as a general rule, this is the case; but it is quite possible, as indeed occurs in cartilage, in tendon, and in muscular fibre, that some of the " nuclei" situated at the greatest distance from the nutrient surface may gradually undergo transformation into the formed material, with the exception of a very small portion of bioplast matter which dies and leaves a small space oc- cupied with fluid. In this case these particular bioplasts would be obliterated, and would not be represented by lacunae. Of the formation of the Medullary Cavity, and its contents.— Amongst the pulpy germinal matter occupying the crypts of the temporary bone, capillary vessels which were to be detected in very small number prior to calcification increase considerably, and it is not unlikely that the bioplasts which take up the cal- careous material may transfer it to the blood circulating in the vessels. Or, on the other hand, it may be retained by the bio- plasts for a time until required again for the development of the permanent bone which is being formed beneath the periosteum. However this may be, there is no doubt about the fact that the temporary bone is removed, and that the little bioplasts are the agents concerned in its removal. The vessels which are developed amongst these masses, and which are formed by development from the original vessels upon the cartilage have upon their outer surface little bioplasts, of which some take part in the formation of nerve fibres, while others arc concerned in the production of connective tissue