CELLS AND INTERCELLULAR SUBSTANCE. 173- of a complex organ may be destroyed and removed, but it cannot be formed anew, so that in man the gradual or sudden destruction of a great part of an organ necessary to life cannot be repaired, although in many cases the patient may adapt himself to the altered state of things and live under the changed conditions. The above considerations afford, I think, an explanation of the formation of the so-called interstitial indefinite connective found in greater or less amount in all organs of all vertebrate animals, and of its increase as age advances. The more regularly, gradually, and perfectly the changes are effected, the smaller will be the proportion formed, and the more slowly will it accumulate. When this is the state of things in all the organs of the body, health and longevity result. The opposite entails disease and too early death. Of Cells and Intercellular Substance.—The connective tissues are supposed to form a class by themselves, and to consist of cells or cell forms embedded in an intercellular substance; and it has been held that the formation of the cells, and the production of the intercellular substance are distinct opera- tions, although it has been proved that in this, as well as in all other textures, masses of germinal matter (the so-called cells) existed before any vestige of the intercellular substance was to be demonstrated. The connective tissues include the various forms of connective and fibrous tissues, cartilage, and bone. But the matrix of cartilage, as has been pointed out by one of us, is no more intercellular than the walls of epithelial cells. The relation of the so-called cells to one another, and to :the cell wall, or intercellular substance in the two tissues 1 -espectively, will be at once understood if we call to mind the ■/act that the masses of germinal matter produce upon their uurfaces the tissue, be it termed matrix, cell wall, or inter- cellular substance. This tissue accumulates between the r nasses of germinal matter. Even in epithelial textures, at an sarly period of formation, the formed material does exist as a :ontinuous mass, which occupies the intervals between the heveral masses of germinal matter just as occurs in adult cartilage and fibrous tissue; but as growth advances, the por- ion of formed material belonging to each mass separates from ts neighbours, and thus "cells" of epithelium result. The | lain difference, therefore, is at once perceived, for in the carti- N 2