FORMATION OF COMPOUNDS FROM THE BLOOD. 141 whereby one portion of it becomes oxidised into leucine, tyro- sine, &c., while another portion is hydrogenised into divers products." Leucine and tyrosine cannot be built up synthe- tically from inorganic matter. They have been found in the normal tissues and secretions in small quantity ; but in diseases in which certain physiological processes are seriously deranged they are found in comparatively large proportion. This is particularly the case in certain diseases of the liver, as was shown by Frerichs. Not only may both substances be detected in the liver after death from acute yellow atrophy of that organ, and some other affections, but large quantities are often excreted in the urine dining the patient's life. Leucine has been detected in the saliva, pancreatic fluid, bile and urine. It is present in the intestinal glands and in the spleen pulp, and it has been obtained from the thymus, thyroid and lymphatic glands. Bcedeker states that leucine is an ordinary constituent of pus. In most cases, tyrosine is asso- ciated with the leucine. Both substances have been obtained from the tissues of many of the lower animals; and from the cochineal insect tyrosine may be obtained in quantity, as was first proved by De la Rue. And there can be no doubt that they are much more widely distributed than was formerly supposed. They have not yet been detected in muscular or nervous tissue. Leucine crystals are seen in plate VIII, fig. 76. The various substances resulting from the oxidation of starchy and saccharine substances and fatty matters will be considered in the proper place. Among these, perhaps water (H20), oxalic acid (C2H204), acetic acid (C2H402), mucic acid (C6H10O8), butyric acid (C4H802), and succinic acid (C4H604), are the most important. It is probable that when the process of oxidation is fully performed, carbonic acid is produced in place of these less highly oxidised organic acids. OF THE FORMATION OF VARIOUS COMPOUNDS IN THE TISSUES AND ORGANS, FROM THE BLOOD. The special changes produced in the blood as it circulates t through the capillaries of the different organs will be referred t to in their proper place, but it is desirable to consider at once nthe general phenomena of the process of nutrition as it occurs r in the elementary tissues of the body.