293 VESSELS OF ADIPOSE TISSUE. between the parts of the mass, but, also, for the convenience of the distribution of its blood-vessels. Vessels.—In fig. 194, pi. XX, the vessels of a lobrde of adi- pose tissue are represented, the artery being coloured red and the vein blue. The blood-vessels enter the chinks between the lobules, and are soon distributed through their interior, under the form of a solid capillary network, whose vessels occupy the angles formed by the contiguous sides of the vesicles, and anastomose with one another at the points where these angles meet. This is one of those situations where the capillary vessels can be most unequivocally proved to possess distinct membranous parietes. Fat is a white or yellowish soft substance, exhibiting no structure whatever, entirely unorganized. The chemical com- position of fats has been very carefully studied, but there is still some difference of opinion among chemists concerning the exact nature of the components of fat. By decomposition fatty acids, principally palmitic, and stearic, may be separated from human fat. These were in combination with glycerine to the elements of which they seem to have been united as to an organic base. By boiling oil or fat with a solution of caustic alkali, the acids unite with the potash, forming soap, and the glycerine remains dissolved in the liquid. By evaporating this liquid (in which any excess of alkali had been previously neu- tralized by tartaric acid) to a thick syrup, the glycerine may be separated from it by solution in strong alcohol, but this sub- stance is now obtained by another process in an exceedingly pine state. It is manufactured upon an enormous scale by Messrs. Price and Co., and is much used. Its value as a medium for preserving microscopical preparations is great. See page 58. We may often detect a spontaneous separation of the crys- talline from the oily fat Avitbin the fat vesicle of the human subject. The solid portion collects in a spot on the inner sur- face of the cell-membrane, and looks like a small star, fig. 191, b b b. The elaine occupies the remainder of the vesicle, except when the quantity of fat in the cell is smaller than usual; in which case we may often discern a little aqueous fluid between the elaine and the cell-membrane on the side farthest from the star (fig. 191, a a); a condition, by the way, which is very