257 OF OSSEOUS TISSUE. cancelli, viewed with a high power, and in various sections of all forms of bone. Granules may certainly be obtained from cal- cined bone, either by bruising a fragment of it, or by soaking it in glycerine or syrup. They may also be made very evident by prolonged boiling in a Papin's digester. Those represented in fie:. 1(15 were obtained in the latter mode. The i n , j.„ , „f Fig. 165. granules vary in size from o6ooo t0 tooooo 01 an inch. In shape they are oval or oblong, "•.v^Jjj* and often angular. In some few instances, Mr. -|^/?$$ Tomes has met with, a delicate fibrous network, 'flV£0§'i§l which seems adapted to receive the granules (•''f&fc** in its interstices; but Mr. Tomes feels that there ultimate m-annie* of , . . . j i i • • A bone, isolated and in small are some serious obiections to this view. A masses, from tho Femur. *j (From a preparation or frequent appearance of the granular-like texture Mr-Tomes-> x82°- of bone is represented in fig. 165. When bone has been decalcified by immersion in acid, thin shreds corresponding to the laniellse may be removed in a longi- tudinal direction. In these the minute aperture of the canaliculi which have been torn across may often be discerned. In many instances delicate transparent fibres crossing each other at different angles will be seen, showing, as Dr. Sharpey was the first to point out, that the organic matrix of bone has a fibrous structure, and is more closely allied to fibrous tissue than to cartilage in microscopical characters, as well as in chemical composition. If bone be soaked for a long time in pure glycerine it becomes sufficiently soft to be torn without its structure being altered, as is necessarily the case when it is decalcified. Such a specimen is represented in pi. XVII, fig. 154, in which an indis- tinctly fibrous material has embedded in, or disseminated through, its substance a number of minute rounded particles of calcareous matter, collections of granules of Mr. Tomes. The intervals between these particles constitute the canaliculi. A careful examination of bone at different stages of de- velopment, and under the highest magnifying powers which have been made leads us to form the following conclusions regarding its ultimate structure. The calcareous matter is at first deposited in the organic matrix in the form of minute granules which gradually increase in size and form rounded or oval particles. In the batrachia these are of considerable