OF LIFE. 23 and self-propagating power, is referred to a something which is certainly but temporarily associated with the matter that exhibits it, and which seems totally distinct from ordinary force, since it compels the elements to take np the required special relations. The something to the influence of which all these apparently spontaneous operations is due, may be termed vital poioer. OF LIFE. Within every Hving organism, and within every elementary part or cell, are ceaseless motion and change. The absorption of new lifeless material, its conversion into Hving matter, the removal of that which has ceased to live, comprise a continual succession of actions in which organization and disorganiza- tion—life and death—are unceasing. But in these actions are comprised phenomena of two distinct classes, different in then- very nature—physical phenomena, which also occur in the ex- ternal world; and phenomena truly vital, the nature of which is not to be so explained. The spontaneity of the actions of the living structure, its self-formation and its power of multiplica- tion, distinguish the simplest organism from the most perfect mechanism of human construction. Life cannot be manifested without the co-operation of matter and the physical forces, but it does not therefore follow, as some have maintained, that the physical force, any more than the matter with which it is associated, is the life. Nor do heat, light, chemical aflmity, &c, evoke, excite, or increase vital action, but they only accelerate certain physical changes in the lifeless matter which surrounds and protects the hving matter that is within (Plates I and II), in consequence of which the passage of the nutrient pabulum through this protecting en- velope, and its access therefore to the hving matter are greatly accelerated. In this way the influence of heat and moisture in promoting the development of seeds maybe most easily explained. Again, the LIFE of a complex organism, as usually defined, is made up of phenomena much more complex than those exhibited in the LIFE of a single " cell." Instead of commencing the discussion by referring to the changes which take place in the most simple hving organism in the simplest condition of its existence, some observers, and especially physicists, have passed