86 FORMATION OP MUSCLE. and this would correspond with the outer part of the surface or boundary of the epithelial cell. In order to understand the true relation of the so-called intercellular substance of the cartilage and tendon to the masses of germinal matter, it is necessary to study the tissue at different ages. At an early period of development these tissues appear to consist of masses of germinal matter only. As development advances, the formed material increases, and the masses of germinal matter become separated further and further from one another. The appearances of a cell-wall around the germinal matter in the fully-formed tissue, and other alterations which occur, and anomalous appearances which often result as age advances, can be even more readily under- stood upon the view here advanced, than upon the intercellular substance theory which has been so strongly supported by some observers. The above conclusions may be confirmed by a careful exami- nation of white fibrous tissue. If equal portions of foetal and adult tendon be examined, the proportion of germinal matter in each will be found to be very different. There may be five or six times as much germinal matter in a certain bulk of foetal, as in the same bulk of fully formed tendon. The tendinous matter or tissue possesses no power of absorbing nutritive material and converting it into tissue like itself. All additions to its substance take place at those points only at which germinal matter exists. Young tendon grows much faster than fully formed tendon, and in old tendon the masses of germinal matter have become reduced to very thin lines. In figs. 38 and 39, plate IV, specimens of foetal and fully developed tendon, from the kitten and cat, are represented. Of the Formation of the Contractile Tissue of Muscle.—A muscle " cell" or elementary part, will consist, like that of car- tilage and tendon, of the so-called nucleus, with a portion of the muscular tissue corresponding to it. In general arrangement it closely resembles what is seen in tendon. The contractile material of muscle may be shown to be continuous with the germinal matter, and oftentimes a tliin filament of the trans- versely striated tissue may be detached with the oval mass of germinal matter still connected with it, showing that, as in tendon, the germinal matter passes uninterruptedly into