157 TISSUE PERMEABLE TO FLUIDS. really entertained, by some who it would seem are determined to force the acceptance of the dogma that all the properties of things living are due to the properties of the elements entering into then composition, and to these only. Tissue permeable to Fluids. — The tissues of living beings are in almost all cases traversed by fluid holding in solution cer- tain matters which are to take part in nutrition or which result from disintegration. In this way the integrity of the texture is preserved, and gradual changes in it are effected. Even the hardest tissues are not absolutely dry or impervious to fluid, and there is reason to think that the intimate structure of tissues so hard as bone, dentine, and enamel is preserved by the con- tinual passage of small quantities of fluid through it. In many soft, and veiy moist tissues the very rapid circulation of fluid is continually going on, as may be proved by causing coloured fluids to traverse it. The natural fluid which passes to and fro in eveiy part of the tissue through interstices too delicate to be seen, preserves it in a healthy state. If this process were to be suspended even for a short time, the tissue would suffer and in some cases be so damaged that it would no longer perform the function it was formed to discharge. In effecting the Qow of these currents of fluid through the tissue the ger- minal matter is the active agent. And if a tissue be care- rally examined it will be found that the position of the masses : )f germinal matter with respect to one another, and to the iource from which the fluid is derived, is such that not a >article of the intervening tissue can escape being bathed vith new fluid as it flows towards or from the vessels which npply fresh pabulum and carry off the deteriorated matter. In .his way changes are continually provoked in every part of a [olid tissue. There is no stagnation anywhere, and every article is successively bathed with fresh portions of fluid. If •am change in structure, or from the death of the germinal Matter, stagnation does occur, the tissue soon suffers. It ceases I} act, soon loses strength, and slowly degenerates, or is sud- I enly destroyed, in which case it is soon separated from the I irrounding healthy parts, and is detached as a lifeless decom- tasing mass, capable of being appropriated only by the lowest lu-ms of vegetable life, which grow and multiply at its expense the germs are brought into contact with it. M 2 I