35 OF VITAL POWER. admit the action of a force or power of the nature of which nothing is yet known, but it is better to do so than "to pretend to be able to give a satisfactory explanation of phenomena which science in its present state is incompetent to account for. Nevertheless an attempt has been made here, to assign to the word vital a definite meaning, and to distinguish vital from physical actions. It has been shown that besides the actions which may be explained upon the same principle as actions taking place in inanimate matter there are changes in every living being, and in every cell, which cannot be so explained or accounted for, which are peculiar to matter derived from living beings. Whatever the real nature of these changes may be, they cannot result from the action of any ordinary force, nor do they obey the same laws. The seat of these peculiar actions has been pointed out, and has been distinguished from the seat of the physical and chemical changes. It will be remarked that the view of the vital processes advocated in these pages differs from others in the very essential point, that the assumed vital power is supposed to influence only particles of matter with which it is associated, and its association with matter is but temporary. The power bears neither a qualitative, nor as far as can be at present proved, a quantitative relation to the matter. It cannot act upon matter at a distance, nor upon the same particles for any length of time. The particles are influenced by it, but soon pass from its control. If their place is not soon succeeded by new particles, vital action must cease, but as long as new particles come into con- tact with those which live already, the action is transmitted, and so on for ever (not simply transferred from particle to par- ticle so that one gains what another has lost). The direction and control exerted, are exerted upon particle after particle. The various particles are not placed in this or that place by a controlling power, ordering and influencing all, but each particle for the time being seems to direct and control itself, and its power is transmitted to new particles without loss or diminution in intensity, and sometimes with actual increase. Certain physical conditions interfere with the manifestation of this power. The action of air, and various external circum- stances, cause death. In fact it would seem that inanimate matter to become living, must come into contact with that which D 2