OP THE CHEMICAL CHANGES 106 Of the Chemical Changes taking place in the Formed Material after its production.—Most important alterations may occur in the formed material after it lias been produced. In some cases it undergoes condensation, during which process structural pecu- liarities manifest themselves. Gradually, the formed material may become dry, after which, little alteration takes place. But in the soft, moist formed material, produced by many of the cells in the internal organs of the body, the most important changes occur. In some cases the formed material is perfectly fluid, and splits up into soluble or gaseous substances as soon as it is produced. In many instances, the elements of the formed material, although themselves insoluble, gradu- ally undergo conversion into soluble compounds, in con- sequence of the action of oxygen, which combines with certain of the elements. If, in any case, the supply of oxygen be insufficient to convert the whole of the matter present into fully oxidised and completely soluble compounds, its elements may combine to form less soluble substances, which accumulate, and in many tissues give i-ise to morbid change. Hence it is of the utmost importance that the disintegrating processes in the internal organs of the higher animals should be in a state of due activity, for unless the formed material be constantly traversed by fluids rich in oxygen, the products necessarily resulting from disintegration are not fully oxidised and quickly removed in a very soluble form, but ^remain in the tissue in other states of combination, interfering with its function or even causing suspension of its action altogether. For instance, by the imperfect oxidation of the elements resulting from the disintegration of muscular and other tissues, fatty matters result, and if the conditions giving rise to their production continue, these accumulate, leading to various morbid con- ditions. Insufficient oxidation seems to be the main cause of the accumulation of uric acid, oxalates and fatty matters in the blood. Leucine, tyrosine, sugar and many other sub- stances result from the ordinary chemical changes being inter- fered with. Their formation is perhaps due to the existence of conditions which interfere with the combination of the due proportion of oxygen with the elements of the compounds which unites with them under ordinary circumstances.