52 IMPORTANCE OF PHYSIOLOGY out what the disease is, and where it is situated {diagnosis). Without a knowledge of the offices which various parts fulfil in the animal economy, our search to determine what organ or function is deranged must be most vague and indefinite. Patho- logy is the physiology of disease; and it is obvious, that no pathological doctrines can command confidence, which are not founded upon accurate views of the natural functions. It is also certain that improvements in pathology must follow in the wake of an advancing physiology. The practice of medicine and surgery abounds with examples illustrating the immense benefits which physiology has con- ferred upon the healing art. The great advance which has been made in the pathology of neivous diseases, is mainly owing to the discoveries of Bell, and more recently to the researches of Marshall Hall, Bernard, Brown-Sequard, and others, upon the functions of various nerves, and the general doctrines of nervous actions. We may instance the case of the facial nerve—the portio dura of the seventh pair. It was sup- posed formerly that this nerve was the seat of that painful disease, called tic-douloureux, and section of it has been per- formed for the relief of the patient. It is now known that this nerve could not be the seat of a very painful disease, for it is itself, in a veiy great degree, devoid of sensibility. It need hardly be added, that the operation is discarded. The dangerous disease, to which many children have fallen victims, laryngismus stridulus or crowing inspiration, although admirably described by practical physicians, was never properly understood until the functions of the laryngeal nerves were clearly ascertained, and until it had been shown that spasmodic actions may be excited by irritation of a remote part, or through a stimulus reflected from the nervous centre. It is now known, that this disease has not its seat in the larynx, where those spasms occur which excite so much alarm for the fate of the little patient; but that it is an irritation of a distant part, which derives its nerves from the same region of the cerebro- spinal centres as does the larynx,—that the afferent nerves of that part convey the irritation to the centre, whence it is reflected by certain efferent nerves to the muscles of the larynx. The important observations made of late years upon the