MEMBRANIFORM CARTILAGE. 222 In the cartilages of the ribs, which occupy an intermediate place between the articular and membraniform varieties, the masses of germinal matter are larger than in any other cartilage in the body, being trom to ^4tt of an inch in diameter. Many of them contain two or more particles of bioplasm " nuclei," which are clear and transparent; and some contain a few oil-globules, a condition occasionally met with in other ■a 126 varieties. They often affect a linear arrangement. The rows of the masses of germinal matter are turned in all directions, and have the appearance of having been formed by the division of one, and the separation of its parts from each other in a con- tinuous line. The formed material "inter- cellular substance" is very abun- dant in these cartilages; and though it usually presents, on cartiinBo of a. Bib., section Ber. a section, a very finely mottled nilnnl matter (nuclei and nucleoli). The transparent nc-r.an+ cm r>ll no tc xromr r»rvr- spaccs result from the removal of the coll. by the knife. tlbpCCL, bUGU Ub lb Very CUl their cavitle. remalnlng.-JIagnifled 820 diameters. reofly pourtrayed, in the figure, yet we may often discern it in an appearance like fibrous structure, in which the apparent fibres are in many cases parallel. This is most evident hi the aged. It is probable that the appearance in question depends upon a tendency to cleave or split on the part of the tissue. The lines in question have very little resemblance to those seen in white fibrous tissue. In the true membraniform cartilages, the masses of germinal Fig. 127. matter are very numerous in proportion to the surrounding substance, which is consequently in small quantity. This matrix is very distinctly fibrous towards the exterior of these cartilages, where it passes into the perichonchhun. The thyroid and cricoid cartilages, and the rings of the trachea, seem chiefly, com- posed of clearly defined and roundish nucleated cells huddled together, as it were, in a promiscuous Thyroid Cartilage:—Thin section. Magnified 320 diameters.