OCCURRING IN THE CELL. 103 as far as is yet known, exhibits life, or posesses vital properties or endowments. It is perhaps as impossible to conceive a living chemical compound as it is to conceive a living elementary atom. And the chemist who supposes that he can analyse living matter is in error, for he examines not the matter which is alive, but simply lifeless compounds resulting from its death. When the living or germinal matter is converted into formed matter, combination of its elements takes place, free oxygen being in some cases absorbed at the moment, and compounds of such complex nature result that the efforts of chemists to ascertain the chemical relations or the exact composition of many of them have not hitherto met with success. And it often happens that the chemical compound undergoes further change after it has been formed, so that the substance which we submit to examination in our laboratories, is not of the same chemical composition as when it was first produced by the cell. Of the Production of Chemical Compounds (formed material) from Germinal Matter.—It is remarkable that the elements of every kind of germinal matter, when its life is suddenly destroyed, should combine to form compounds closely allied to one another hi chemical composition and properties, and that an acid reac- tion should be always developed. From every kind of germinal matter a material which coagulates spontaneously, and one which is coagulated by heat and nitric acid may be obtained. The first of these is fibrin, and the second is albumen. Fibrin, albumen, water and certain salts, may be obtained from every kind of germinal matter. All kinds of germinal matter also yield fatty matters, and these continue to increase in quantity for some time after death has occurred. As is well known, the "nuclei" (germinal matter) of all organisms and tissues which have been kept for some time in preservative fluids become granular, and usually distinct globules are to be seen. These granules and globules are due to the formation of fatty matter from the germinal matter itself, or from the albumen, fibrin, and other substances immediately resulting from its death. It is very remarkable that the general characters, if not the chemical composition, of this fatty matter, should be the same in the case of every kind of germinal matter in both vegetable and animal tissues (see page 110). It would appear that the elements of every kind of germinal matter are so disposed or