TI-IE DEVELOPMENT •M)2 we still remain completely ignorant concerning the relation of the fatty matter to the bioplasm of the cell. By aid of the plan of preparation already referred to, the change in amount of the bioplasm and the relation of this substance to the formed fatty matter may be so distinctly determined in cells at different stages of development that not a doubt can be enter- tained concerning the mode of formation of the fat, and the time relation which the bioplasm bears in all cases to this sub- stance. The little globule of fat having been once formed in the substance of the bioplasm, pi. XX, fig. 190, may increase in size by the addition of new particles to it, until the globule becomes larger and larger, being at last, perhaps, fifty times the size of the bioplast that remains, fig. 198, pi. XX; or the number of globules may increase until a compound mass, con- sisting of hundreds of separate little oil globules, results. In most mammalia and man, the globule is single, but in some of the reptiles (lizard, snake, chameleon) the fat cells in many of the tissues consist of numerous separate oil globules, almost uniform in size. And in some parts of the organism of some mammalia (rat, mouse), ami even in certain cases in man him- self, the same fact has been noticed. In insects the " fat cells" are often of enormous size, consisting of aggregations of very small oil globules, which collect around the mass of bioplasm that has taken part in their production. In the livers of many fishes, particularly the eel, a somewhat similar arrangement may be observed. In these cases the nutrient matter passes in the interstices between the already formed oil globules to the bioplasm in the centre. The circumferential portions of the latter die, and undergo transformation into fatty matter which is deposited within that already produced. The globules on the outside of the cell or on its surface are therefore the oldest. To recur to the development of the adipose vesicle in man. At the same time that the oil globule deposited hi the bio- plasm of the developing adipose tissue increases, a change of another kind is taking place upon the surface of the mass. The living matter in this situation dies and becomes changed, so as to form a delicate transparent structureless membrane, which increases in extent as its contents become augmented by the absorption of nutrient material into the included bioplasm,