164 CONTRACTILE TISSUE. as little islands even in the central part. This cuticular tissue must be formed by masses of germinal matter which have de- scended from those of the subjacent connective tissue corpuscles, or from particles of germinal matter descended from white blood corpuscles, of which a large number are usually found upon the surface of a healirjg wound, having escaped with the serum of the blood through the thin walls of the subjacent capillaries* The fact of the very intimate connection between the epi- thelium and subjacent connective tissue which exists in some cases, and the gradual transition by which in other instances one tissue is seen to pass into the other, lends support to the view that the germinal matter of connective tissue, and pro- bably that of many if not all other tissues may, under certain circumstances, produce a tissue closely allied to simple cuticular texture. Some observers have arrived at the conclusion that the epithelial and nervous tissues are continuous—that the finest ramifications of the nerve fibres pass into and are structurall connected with the formed material of the epithelial cell. Thi view will probably turn out to be erroneous, but it shall receiv full consideration when the structure of nerve texture 1 described. Contractile Tissue.—One of the most remarkable examples o peculiar structure familiar to us, and one which cannot be at & satisfactorily explained at present, is striped muscle. But w must not conclude that the transverse markings are essential t contractile tissues, for they are completely absent in the case o involuntary muscular fibre. While, on the other hand, ther are certain kinds of fibrous tissue, destitute of contracting which possess distinct transverse markings. Nor are the stri of muscle seen at an early period of development. They d not make their appearance until contraction of the tissue h repeatedly occurred, but the fact of their great regularity an constant uniformity in the same species precludes the possibilit of these markings being due merely to some accidental variatio in the refractive power of the muscular tissue. It is certain the depend upon the occurrence of important structural change while the contractile material is in a very soft plastic state. Th may be due to the rate of formation of the contractile mater! and the rapidity of the successive actions of the nerve curre * " On the Germinal Matter of the Blood." Mic. Journal, 1863.