170 OF THE FORMATION OF important that it is worth while to consider the matter some- what in detail. The essential structures in the fully formed kidney seem to be these—vessels for conveying the blood,— nerve fibres which govern the calibre, and thus determine the rate of flow of the blood from the arteries into the capillaries,— and epithelial cells which are arranged round the tubes so as to leave a channel by which the materials separated or formed I >y them may be readily carried away in solution hi water. It is probable that these are the only anatomical elements which exist when the renal apparatus first begins to perform its active functions, and the only ones which constitute the simplest form of kidney. But as the growth of the body proceeds, the demand for a more extensive renal apparatus arises, and, as in the case of other organs in vertebrata, the increase must be gradual, and must take place while the organ is actively discharging its functions. The growth of the kidney necessitates a change in the relative position of the individual nerve fibres, vessels, and secreting structure in different parts of the gland, and the pro- gressive development of new elements as extensions from those already existing. The successive changes are not easily traced with accuracy, and it is very difficult to convey in words a clear idea of the phenomena which succeed and as it were over- lap one another. At an early period of development the secreting cells multiply and become arranged so as to form a hollow tube. By then- division and subdivision the tube increases in length and circumference, at least during a certain period, in every part of its extent. At the deep or external portion of these cells, adjacent to the vessels, matter is slowly deposited in an insoluble form, and thus a thin membranous boundary which corresponds to the outer limit of the future m'iniferous tube results, and this becomes extended as the cells grow, while at the same time it is increased in strength by the addition of new matter. Between the lines of masses of germinal matter from which the tubes are developed, and those which take part in the formation of vessels and nerves are a few masses which are not concerned in the formation of any definite structure, but which perhaps take part in the production of a small quantity of intervening substance. The membrane becomes further modi- fied by its relation to the nerves and blood-vessels. These were very close to the cells at the earliest periods of development,