OF THE FORMS OF LIVING BEINGS. 37 incapable of breeding with, another mule, although it may pro- duce offspring with an animal of the same species as either of its parents. Various facts show that physical agencies exert an important influence in modifying organic development. The most potent cause of these changes has been climate; but particular cus- toms and usages, connected with the uncivilized state, have not been without their influence. Climate also produces con- siderable modifications in the size and other characters of the lower animals. The very striking alterations in character which are known to result from the influence of such external conditions has led many observers to suspect that still more important modifications may really be due to these causes alone, and that possibly two or more different species may have been produced by the action of dissimilar physical conditions upon the descendants of different members of the same original stock. It is true that the mind attempts in vain to realize the direct im- mediate creation of a living being out of inorganic matter, and it is therefore not to be wondered at that from time to time strong opposition to the old view, regarding the origin by sepa- rate special creations, of all the countless beings which surround us, should have arisen, or that attempts should have been made to siibstitute for it some theory which should account satis- factorily for the phenomena, without the necessity of accepting a dictum, or adopting an assumption which cannot be proved. But it is remarkable that some of the strongest opponents of the old account of the creation, experience no difficulty in accepting the doctrine of the spontaneous or fortuitous origin of organic particles, and their aggregation to form living organisms. No one attempts to explain how the atoms composing the first living particle, brought themselves together, any more than the nature of the forces associated with the inorganic atoms prior to their concourse, or the condition of the matter at a still earlier period than this, to say nothing of the origin of the matter itself. Of late years the idea has been gaining ground that all the different plants and animals which exist, and which have existed from the beginning, have resulted entirely from the constantly modifying influence of continually altering external circum- stances upon what was originally a very simple form. And