45 OF WILL. fluids are thus aerated, is called respiration. In plants, the intro- duction of atmospheric air conveys nutriment to the organism; carbonic acid and ammonia are thus introduced; the former is decomposed, its carbon is assimilated, and its oxygen is ex- changed for a fresh supply of atmospheric air. As the agent m the decomposition of the carbonic acid is light, it is evident that the generation and the evolution of oxygen can take place only in the day-time. Consequently, during the night, the carbonic acid, with which the fluids of the plant abound, ceases to be decomposed, and is exhaled by its leaves. Hence, plants exhale oxygen in the day-time, and carbonic acid at night. In animals, carbonic acid accumulates in the blood during its circulation; and, when .the atmosphere is brought to bear upon the capillary vessels containing the blood charged with this gas, a mixture takes place through the delicate walls of the vessels, the atmospheric air passing in, and carbonic acid, with nitrogen and oxygen, in certain proportions, escaping. Thus the evolution of carbonic acid, and the absorption of oxygen and nitrogen, are the characteristic features of respiration in animals. It is highly interesting to notice, how plants are thus subservient to the well-being of animals, in the respiratory func- tion, as well as in preparing nutriment for them. By their respiration they serve to purify the ah for animals; for, in absorbing the carbonic acid from the atmosphere, they are con- tinually depriving it of an element which, if suffered to accu- mulate beyond certain bounds, would prove destructive to animal life. From the fluids of animals and plants, certain materials are separated by a singular process, nearly allied in its mechanism to nutrition, and called the function of secretion. The secreted matters are various, and have very different ends: in some cases being destined for some ulterior purpose in the economy; in others, fonning an excrement, the continuance of which in the organism would be prejudicial to it. The function, which has for its object the propagation of the species, generation, presents many points of resemblance in plants and animals. In the former it is cryptogamic, or phanerogamic; in the latter, non-sexual or sexual. In the phanerogamic and sexual, the junction of two lands of matter furnished by the parents is necessary to the development of fertile ova. In the