DISTRIBUTION OF FAT. 295 lents of stearic acid (C36H3604) + one equivalent of glycerine (C6H806) — 6HO. Triolein, Cn4H104O12, which corresponds to throe equivalents of oleic acid (C36H3404) + one equivalent of glycerine (C6H806) — 6HO. Human fat according to Chevreul, consists of Hydrogen .. .. 11 "416 Carbon .. .. 79-000 Oxygen .. .. 9-584 100-000 Distribution.—The adipose tissue is met with very exten- sively in the animal kingdom. It is found in larvae as well as in the perfect insect; also in the mollusca. It prevails in all the tribes of the vertebrata. In fish it occurs throughout the body; but in some, as the cod, whiting, haddock, and all of the ray kind, according to Hunter, it is only met with in the liver. In reptiles it exists chiefly in the abdomen. In the frog, toad, &c, it is found in the form of long appendages, something like the appendices epiploicae of man, situated on each side of the spine. In birds, it exists chiefly between the peritoneum and abdominal muscles ; but there is also a considerable deposit in the bones of the legs, feet, last bones of the wings, and of the tail, especially of the swimming tribes, the oily principle being more abundant than in mammals. In mammalia it is very generally diffused. This class, as a whole, has the greatest quantity under the skin, and about certain of the abdominal viscera; but the hare forms a remarkable exception, it being sometimes difficult to find a particle of adipose tissue in the whole body. It usually abounds most in the beginning of winter; and this is especially the case with the hog, and with hybernating animals, which, during their dormant state, absorb it into the system. It is ordinarily accumulated in large masses about the kidneys, more particularly in ruminants, where it furnishes the best example of that variety of adipose tissue termed suet. Among mankind many remarkable varieties exist as regards this tissue. In general, women are fatter than men. The healthy human foetus, after the middle of the period of gesta-