241 CHEMICAL COMPOSITION. through its combination with the earthy. This is manifest from analysing bones which have been long kept, or fossil bones. Cuvier states that the latter bones exhibit a considerable car- tilaginous portion ; and Bichat found that clavicles, which had been exposed for ten years to the wind and rain at the cemetery of Clamart, presented, under the action of acid, an abundant cartilaginous basis. In an old Roman frontal bone, dug up from Pompeii, Dr. Davy found 35*5 animal parts, and 64'5 earthy; and in a tooth of the mammoth, 30*5 animal, and 69"5 earthy. Chemical Composition.—The animal part of bone consists of cartilage basis, with vessels, medullary membrance, and fat. The former is readily convertible into gelatine, according to Berzelius, after three hours' boiling; and, when this has been removed, there remain only four grains out of 100, which may be considered to have been composed of blood-vessels. The earthy part of bone consists of phosphate and carbonate of lime, with a small quantity of phosphate and carbonate of magnesia. The phosphate of lime forms the principal portion of the earthy part: in 100 parts of bone, Berzelius found 51*04 of this salt. It was discovered by G-ahn, and the discovery announced by Scheele, that bone-earth consisted of "phos- phoric acid and lime." According to Berzelius, the phosphate consists of eight atoms of lime and three atoms of phosphoric acid; but Mitscherlich regards it as composed of three atoms of lime with one of phosphoric acid (a tribasic salt). It may be formed artificially by dropping chloride of calcium into a solu- tion of phosphate of soda. It appears as a gelatinous precipi- tate, which does not crystallise, and is readily soluble in acids. The existence of fluoride of calcium in bone was announced many years ago by Berzelius, who found as much as 2 per cent. According to Berzelius, the following represents the composition of bone. The accuracy of these results have been confirmed more recently by Mr. Middleton (Phil.Mag. vol. xxv, p. 18). Animal matter .. .. .. .. .. .. 33 30 Earthy matter .. .... .. ' .. .. G6 70 Phosphate of lime .. .. .. .. .. 51'04 Carbonate of lime .. .. .. .. .. 1T30 Fluoride of calcium .. .. .. .. .. 2-00 Magnesia .. .. .. ,. .. .. 1-16 Soda and chloride of calcium. .. .. .. .. 1-20