289 IRRITATION, EXCITATION. which has been produced. Now, it has been said that the dead bone acts as an irritant—as a foreign body—and that this is the reason why the bone increases around it. Such a doctrine is still strongly maintained, although no one has been able to show exactly what is meant by the supposed " irritation." It has been assumed that an irritant or excitant is always necessary to increased action, that by this " irritant" the living cells are "excited" to live faster than usual. But for this increased activity all that is really required is a more free access of nutrient matter. The so-called "irritant," instead, of " exciting," acts in the most passive manner possible. It allows pabulum to have freer access to the living bioplasm. By it the restrictions under which growth normally takes place are to some extent removed. There is no " excitation to increased action " at all. The more freely living matter is supplied with pabulum the faster it grows. " Increased action" in a living structure results from the removal of restrictions, as occurs when the rupture, perforation, or softening of the " cell-wall" or " intercellular substance," takes place. The nutrient pabulum comes more readily into contact with the bioplasm which grows faster, but not in con- sequence of " stimulation," " excitation," or " irritation" The following works may be consulted on Bone:—The systems of General Anatomy and Physiology; Meckel, Anat. Generale Descript. et Patholog., torn. i.; Henle's Anatomy; Dr. Bostock's Physiology contains an excellent and learned sum- mary of the observations of preceding physiologists on the structure and growth of bone up to the year 1836 ; Mr. Paget's paper on the influence of Madder on the Bones of growing Animals, Lond. Med. Gazette, vol. xxv.; Deutsch, de penitiori Ossium structura observationes, 1834: Miescher, de iuflammatione Ossium eorumque anatome generali, 1836 : Midler's Physiology by Baly, vol. i. M. Flourens on the growth of Bone; Todd and Bowman, the Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man, 1843 ; Brulle et Hugueny, in Annal. des scienc. nat., 1845 ; Beck, Abh, lib. einige in Knochen verlaufende Nerven. Freiburg, 1846; Votsch, Die Heilung der Knochenbrtiehe per Primam intentionem. Heidelberg, 1847 ; Kolliker in Mittheil. der Ziirch. nat. Gessellsch. 1847 ; Flourens, Theorie expe- rimentale de la formation des os, Paris, 1847; Rokitansky, in der Zeitschrift der "Wiener Acrzto, 1848; Leidy, J., in Amer. Journal of tho Med. Sc. 1849; Kru- kenberg, in Mull. Arch. 1849 ; F. Bidder, in Mall. Arch. 1849 j Robin, in Mem. de la Soci6t€ de Biolog. 1850, und Gazette M6d. d. Paris, 1857, Journal de l'Auatomie et de la Physiologie, 1864; Kolliker in Wurzb., verh. i.; Luschka, die Nerven in den harten Hirnhaut Tub. 1850; Die Nerven des Wirbelcanalcs und der Wirbel. Tub. 1850, in Zeitschr. f. rat. Med., in Virchow's Arch., in Mull. Arch. 1855 ; Wagner, A., Debor den Heilungsprocess nach resorption und exstirpation der Knochen, Berl. 1852; Tomes & De Morgan, Phil. Trans. 1853 ; Hilty, U. Der innere Callus und seine Entstehung, Zurich. 1853; Redfern in Monthly Journal, 1854;