101 OCCURRING IN THE CELL. position, find certainly nourished by the same pabulum, may give rise to the formation of very different compounds. It may, indeed, be regarded as certain, that from a nutrient fluid common to them all, the masses of germinal matter of different textures take certain constituents which become converted into the tissues, or the constituents peculiar to the different secretions. The idea that these very substances existed in a modified form in the blood, and were merely separated from it by a sort of attractive force existing in the cells, will probably soon give place to the doctrine now supported by so many facts, that, from the same chemical constituents, different kinds of living matter may prepare or produce compounds very different in composition and properties from one another. For the crude notion that the formation of tissues was akin to the process of crystallisation, we must substitute the conclusion that the real cause of the peculiar composition and properties of the substances formed, is to be sought for in the living matter itself. And as the evidence that the wonderful changes occurring in this matter are due to the influence of some peculiar force or power, becomes stronger, it is to be hoped that com- parisons between living things, and crystals laboratories or steam-engines, will no longer be insisted upon, OF THE CHEMICAL CHANGES OCCURRING- LN THE CELL. Before we can hope to form a correct idea of the complex chemical phenomena occurring in man and the higher animals at any period of existence, we must have a knowledge ©f the general chemical changes occurring in the cell. Regarding the " cell" as consisting of—1. Germinal or living matter. 2. Formed matter; and 3. Formed matter undergoing disintegration, the consideration of the chemistry of the cell naturally falls under three heads ;—TJie Chemistry of the germinal matter, the Chemistry of the formed material, and the Chemistry of the substances resulting from the oxidation of, or other changes in the formed material. This will, therefore, be discussed in the first place, and then we shall have to consider the more complex chemical phenomena occurring in man and the higher animals at different periods of existence. The Chemical Characters of the Living Germinal Matter.—Just as the various tissues of living beings result from ohanges