102 THE CHEMICAL CHANGES occiu-rmg in a perfectly transparent, structureless, germinal or living matter, so the numerous chemical compounds character- istic of different living organisms, and different tissues and organs, result from changes taking place in this same trans- parent material. Few substances which enter the organism of a living being pass through unchanged, without having then- elements completely rearranged. There is reason to believe, that even the elements of many mineral substances become separated from one another, and recombined in the body. It is remarkable that the germinal matter from the most dissimilar living beings presents the same characters, so that it is not possible to premise, from any microscopical or chemical examination, what will be the nature of the substances formed from any given mass of germinal matter. The general characters of germinal matter have been already referred to, and the student will readily form a notion of its simple trans- parent, jelly-like appearance, if he examines, under a high magnifying power, a white blood corpuscle, or the transparent moving matter forming the substance (sarcode) of a common amoeba, specimens of which can always be obtained from water, in which a little dead animal tissue has been placed, left to stand for some days in a light part of the room. There is no living or germinal matter which does not con- tain oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen and carbon; and although some of the other elements are often present and are, un- doubtedly, of great importance in special cases, the above are constantly found and seem essential to the very existence of vital changes. It is comparatively easy to ascertain what elements exist in the living matter, but it is not possible to demonstrate how these are combined, or if they are combined at all. Of the relation which these elements bear to one another in the living matter, we know indeed nothing; but since every kind of living matter exhibits the same characters, it seems probable that during this temporary living state, the elements do not exist in a state of ordinary chemical com- bination at all. Then ordinary attractions or affinities seem to be suspended for the time. That the matter is in a state of active molecular change, or vibration, is certain, but it is doubtful if chemical combination is possible as long as the matter lives. No chemical compound or elementary substance,