154 ALTERATION OF FORMED MATERIAL IN DISEASE. matrix itself is the result of a vital process, but the impregna- tion of this matter with saline matter is probably due to chemical changes alone. We may, then, conclude that in the preparation of the sub- stances required for the nutrition of the germinal matter of the different tissues, the lifeless pabulum, after being rendered soluble, is appropriated by the living matter of the cells of the villi. Portions of this germinal matter then die, and the pro- ducts resulting from their death become taken up partly by the germinal matter in* the lacteals, partly by that in the walls of the capillaries, and partly, perhaps, by the white blood corpuscles. These forms of germinal matter probably give rise to white blood corpuscles from which the red blood corpuscles are produced. By the action of oxygen upon these last, pro- bably two series of compounds result; one which is capable of behig appropriated by the germinal matter of the capillary walls and that of the tissues, while the other becomes resolved into carbonic acid, urea, and other compounds which are eliminated by particular organs of the body. From the nutrient matters so prepared the germinal matter of the various tissues derives the substances for its nutrition, and these, when taken up, become part of its substance, and take the place of that portion which has recently undergone conversion into tissue. In the removal of old and worn out tissue and the intro- duction of its elements into the blood prior to their elimination by the various excreting organs, it is probable that similar operations occur, the old texture being taken up by germinal matter, this undergoing conversion into formed material, which is appropriated by the germinal matter of the vessels and the white blood corpuscles, until at last, by the disintegration of those substances which serve as pabulum to the secreting cells of various glands, imperfectly, or highly oxidised bodies, are prepared, which are at once carried off. Alteration in composition of Formed Material in Disease.—The integrity of the formed material of many tissues is preserved, and the activity of its function maintained, by the continual passage of fluid through it. The disposition of the nuclei, or masses, of living germinal matter in the healthy tissue, is such as to ensure the existence of cm-rents through every part. If from a change in the composition of the fluid itself, or in consequence