286 REPARATION OP RONE. long bone, midway between the growing- extremities, is clearly tbe part which was first formed, or the oldest portion of the shaft. The oldest part of an epiphysis must be the centre. The several stages through which a long bone passes during its growth Avill be understood if fig. 188 be carefully examined. In each of the outline figures a represents the ossific centre of the epiphyses, and the lines prolonged from the extremities of the largest bone indicate the form this would have had in its fully developed state had growth taken place at the extremities of the shaft only, and no provision been made for its increase hi diameter by the development of new bone, layer outside layer, around the entire circumference of the shaft beneath the perios- teum, as has been described in page 282. Reparation of Bone.—Tbe great importance of this subject to the surgeon has led to many very interesting researches from the time of Duhamel to the jn-esent day, and by these the several steps of the process by which new bone is deposited have been ably elucidated in all that relates to their more obvious characters. When a fracture occurs, blood is, of course, effused into the wound, both from the ruptured vessels of the bone itself, and from those of the surrounding structures par- ticipating in the injury. This blood soon undergoes change. Its colouring matter is absorbed, and its bioplasm particles (white blood corpuscles) multiply. The fibrin at length dis- appears, being appropriated by the developing bioplasts, and in its place a form of fibrous tissue is produced. This at length undergoes calcification, and from the fomth to the sixth week a soft temporary bone, termed by Dupuytren provisional callus, results. This is slowly replaced by the development of per- manent bone (permanent callus) from the growth and mutiplica- tion of the bioplasts of the torn periosteum of the original bone. The spongy temporary bone invests the exterior of the broken extremities, and extends between them in the form of a case, by which they are firmly held together. If the medul- lary canal has been broken across, and the broken ends evenly adjusted, there will be likewise an interior stem of new bone connecting the medullary canal of the fragments in the axis of the bone ; the opposed surfaces of the compact tissue being as yet ununited. It would appear that new bone is formed more