238 ANIMAL AND EARTHY MATTER. growth of this tissue, we can therefore define with great pre- cision the results of the vital processes, and distinguish these from the effects of the purely physico-chemical changes. A certain proportion between the organic and inorganic constituents of bone is necessary to the due maintenance of its physical properties. To the earthy part it owes its hardness, its density, its little flexibility; but it is equally necessary for these properties that the animal portion shall be healthy, and in proper quantity; for the cohesion of the particles of the former is secured entirely by it. A due proportion of the animal part gives bone a certain degree of elasticity; and, were it not for the earthy matter, bones would be exceedingly flexible, as may be shown in a bone deprived of its calcareous matter by acid. Hence old bones, in which the animal matter is less abundant, as well as perhaps defective in quality, are more brittle than young ones, and the bones of old persons are more liable to fracture. But in the young, in whom the organic processes are active, and whose animal matter is fully adequate in quantity and quality to the wants of the system, the bones possess then- due degree of flexibility, and hence in them frac- tures are less frequent; the cohesive force of the bones being sometimes so considerable, that they will bend to a great degree before yielding. The following table from Schreger illustrates the relative proportions of the two constituents, at three periods of life, in 100 parts of bone :— Child. Adult. Old. Animal matter .. .. 47 20 .. 20-18 .. 12-2 Earthy matter .. .. 48-48 .. 74-84 .. 841 or it may be 'stated in general terms, that in the child the earthy matter forms nearly one-half the weight of the bone, in the adult is is equal to four-fifths, and in the old subject to seven-eighths; a conclusion agreeing in the main with that drawn from the analyses of Davy, Bostock, Hatchett, and others. It had long been known that certain bones of the body con- tained these constituents in other proportions than those named; for example, the petrous portion of the temporal bone had been shown by Davy to owe its stony hardness to an exceptionally large proportion of earthy matter. But Dr. G. 0. Rees has