IN THE SIMPLE CELL. 107 Sketch of the Chemical Changes occurring in the simple Cell.— Carrying out our inquiry according to the plan adopted in the chapter devoted to the consideration of structure, we may now consider the chemical changes which occur during the life of a simple cell, and we propose to select, for the purposes of inquiry, one of the lower microscopic fungi—the yeast plant. If a minute germ of this vegetable organism be placed in a solution containing a trace of albuminous matter, a small quantity of phosphatic salts, and sugar in the proportion of about 4 parts of sugar to 20 of water, and the whole be exposed to the air, at a temperature of about 80°, growth will take place. The germ will give rise, in a short time, to many bodies like itself, and the sugar will be gradually appropriated by the plant, which will increase in size, divide and subdivide, until the greater part of the sugar has been removed. Now, in this process, as the sugar disappears, and the yeast corpuscles multiply, while oxygen and albuminous matter are taken up, carbonic acid and alcohol are evolved in considerable quantity. This is the process known as alcoholic fermentation, and there is no doubt that the formation of the alcohol and carbonic acid is intimately connected with the growth and multiplication of the yeast cells, but the precise manner in which the decomposition of the sugar is effected is still unknown. Many chemists, following Liebig, probably regard the change as too purely chemical. Because putrefying blood, white of egg, &c, caused the fermentation of sugar, Liebig came to the conclusion that yeast was a sort of vege- table fibrin, albumen, or caseine in a state of decomposition. We now know that putrefying substances themselves cause fermentation, only because they contain living organisms. It was supposed that the yeast cells effected the decomposition of the sugar without necessarily coming into actual contact with every portion of sugar, by virtue of some action, the nature of which was not explained, but which was spoken of as metabolic action. Mitscherlich proved, however, that for the change to occur, the living cells of the yeast plant must come into actual contact with every particle of syrup to be decomposed. We may now consider this question from a somewhat different point of view. The germinal matter of yeast, like other kinds of germinal matter, contains nitrogen and exhibits