ON THE PREPARATION OF TISSUES 60 vessels. The specimens injected with it retain their colour perfectly, and the injected tissues can also be stained with carmine. Price's glycerine, 2 oz. by measure. Tincture of perchloride of iron, 10 drops. Fcrrocyanide of potassium, 3 grains. Strong hydrochloric acid, 3 drops. Water, 1 oz. Mix the tincture of iron with one ounce of the glycerine ; and the fcrro- cyanide of potassium, first dissolved in a little water, with the other ounce. These solutions are to be mixed together very gradually in a bottle, and are to be well shaken during admixture. The iron solution must be added to the ferrocyanide of potassium. Lastly, the water and hydrochloric acid are to be added. Sometimes I add a little alcohol (2 drachms) to the above mixture. This fluid does not deposit any sediment, even if kept for some time, and it appears like a blue solution when examined under high magnifying powers, in consequence of the insoluble particles of Prussian blue being so very minute. The Carmine Fluid.—The following is the composition of the carmine fluid: Carmine, 10 grains. Strong liquor ammonias, | drachm. Price's glycerine, 2 ounces. Distilled water, 2 ounces. Alcohol, | ounce. The carmine in small fragments is to be placed in a test tube, and the ammonia added to it. By agitation, and with the aid of the heat of a spirit- lamp, the carmine is soon dissolved. The ammoniacal solution is to be boiled for a few seconds and then allowed to cool. After the lapse of an hour, much of the excess of ammonia will have escaped. The glycerine and water may then be added and the whole passed through a filter or allowed to stand for some time, and the perfectly clear supernatant fluid poured off and kept for use. This solution will keep for months, but sometimes a little carmine is deposited, owing to the escape of ammonia, in which case one or two drops of liquor ammonias to the four ounces of carmine solution may be added. The rapidity with which the colouring of a tissue immersed in this fluid takes place, depeuds partly upon the character of the tissue and partly upon the excess of ammonia present in the solution. If the solution be very alkaline the colouring is too intense, and much of the soft tissue or imperfectly developed formed material around the germinal matter, is destroyed by the action of the alkali. If, on the other hand, the reaction of the solution be neutral, the uniform staining of tissue and germinal matter may result, and the appearances from which so much is learnt are not produced. When the vessels are injected with the Prussian blue fluid the carmine fluid requires to be sufficiently alkaline to neutralise the free acid present. The permeat- ing power of the solution is easily increased by the addition of a little more water and alcohol. Some tissues absorb the colour very slowly. Fibrous tissue, bone and cartilage, even in very thin sections, will require twelve hours or even more,