INFLAMMATION OF BONE. 287 exuberantly in the situations of the provisional callus because of their greater vascularity, just as we may suppose the func- tion of ordinary nutrition to be more active in those parts than in the compact tissue of the bone. The permanent callus has all the characters of true bone. "When the reparative process in bone is interfered with, either by mal-apposition of the fragments, or by constitutional fault, a spmious union may occur by the medium of a ligamentous substance, or even a diarthrodial joint may be formed at the seat of fracture. The ends of the bones become altered in form and adapted to one another, a kind of false capsular liga- ment is developed, and sometimes even an imperfect car- tilage, and a lining membrane furnishing a lubricating fluid. Of Inflammation of Bone, of Canes and Necrosis.—In the development of bone, in the removal of old Haversian systems, and in the formation of new ones, in the union of fractured ends of bones, in caries, and in the formation of bone cancer, the bioplasts or masses of living germinal matter are the active agents. If bone is to be absorbed these little masses of germinal matter multiply very rapidly and increase at the expense of the surrounding bone. On the other hand, if bone is to be formed, it has been shown that the masses of bioplasm having increased in number for a time, cease to multiply, but each increases in size, and the outer part of each slowly under- goes conversion into formed material, which in its turn becomes gradually impregnated with hard calcareous salts. The harder the bone is to be, the slower must this process proceed. In inflammation of bone the bioplasts of the lacunae increase in size, and appropriate the formed material adjacent to them. Thus, a lacuna becomes much enlarged, and is found to contain several small spherical masses of bioplasm instead of one (PI. XVII, fig. 156, page 250). The bone tissue between several lacunae may be disintegrated and removed, and thus a space of considerable extent may be scooped out even in the com- pact tissue, and may be occupied by masses of bioplasm, re- sulting from the division of those belonging to several lacunae. This is one way in which an abscess in bone may originate. In rickets, caries, and cancer, the vital changes going on in osseous tissue are much more active than in healthy bone which lives and grows but slowly hi comparison. In these mor-