180 CONNECTIVE OF UMBILICAL CORD. of germinal matter, with ragged fibres projecting from either extremity, and often extending for some distance.—Fig. 89, pi. X. Many of the elementary parts are triangular, and the fibres pass off in three directions. The fibres have the general appearance of fibres of ordinary connective tissue, and the germinal matter extends for some distance in opposite direc- tions, gradually tapering into a thin line, -which is at length lost amongst the fibrous tissue. In the fresh tissue, therefore, there are no communicating tubes and spaces as have been described. The drawings in plate X, which are from actual specimens, do not at all resemble the diagrams Virchow has given of the same tissue. Compare fig. 87 with figs. 88, 89, pi. X. What is represented to be a space or cavity in the centre of the elementary parts is in the groAving tissue, the precise situation of the germinal matter, as may be clearly proved by resorting to the method of preparation described in page 57. The apparent tubes contain prolongations from this. The soft germinal matter breaks down very soon after death, and in this way the spaces and tubes described may result, but it is certain that these do not exist as canals for conveying the nutrient juices during life. The nutrient matter instead of running in them permeates every part of the delicate fibrous tissue. The structure and mode of development of this fibrous tissue can be well demonstrated in specimens prepared according to the method given in page 57. Some forms of the simple fibrous connective formed in dis- ease are very like the simple connective tissue of the umbilical cord. Compare fig. 88, pi. X, with fig. 92. One of the fibres is shown separately in fig. 91, and it will be observed that the general structure and arrangement are the same as seen in the mucous tissue of the cord, and indeed in ordinary tendon and other forms of fibrous tissue. The great difference between the morbid and healthy fibrous connective tissue is to be observed as regards the formed material which is much more soft and yielding in the former, and in the arrangement of the germinal matter which is not so regular as in the normal tissue. But we may observe a gradual transition from ordinary fibrin with its germinal matter to the well marked and firm fibrous tissue of tendon and other fibrous textures.