297 PRODUCTION OF PAT. ing when viewed from behind as a double hemisphere, in the notch of which the coccyx is buried, but is just perceptible to the touch. These protuberances, when very large, fluctuate from side to side, and sometimes attain the weight of thirty or forty pounds. The quantity of fat in a moderately fat man is estimated by Beclard at about the twentieth of the weight of the body, but in many it amounts to much more. Fat is found in the following situations in the human body; in the orbits, in the cheeks, the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, at the flexures of the joints, and between the folds of the synovial membranes of joints, around the kidneys, in the mesentery and omentum, in the appendices epiploicse, on the heart, in the subcutaneous layer of areolar tissue, but especially that of the abdomen, and of the mammary region, and in the cancelli and canals of the bones forming the medulla. It never occurs in the areolar tissue of the scrotum and penis, or of the nymphse, nor in that between the rectum and bladder, nor along the median line beneath the skin, nor in sundry other situations. ■ Fat is found in the liver even in health, and a large quantity may be obtained from the brain and nerves. In these organs it is not enclosed in vesicles of delicate membrane, but is asso- ciated with the matter of the tissues themselves. Oily matter exists in greater or less proportion in all the textures of the body, from which it may be extracted by alcohol and ether, although not a trace can be detected by microscopical examination. Seepage 146. Even the transparent fluids of the organism are not destitute of fatty material, and, as is well known, the chyle contains a very considerable proportion. Origin and Production of Fat.—There can be no doubt that fat is derived from the blood. All the most recent analyses of that fluid assign to it a certain proportion of both the crystallisable and the oily portion of the fat; according to Lecanu, about four parts in a thousand. In many instances, the fatty matter accumulates in the blood ; cases of which have been recorded by Morgagni, Hewson, Marcet, Traill, and Babington. In such cases the serum is opaque and nearly as white as milk, and, on standing a short time, a film forms on the surface like cream. On the addition of ether, the creamy pellicle is dissolved, and the serum loses its opacity. M. Blainville relates, that, in