94 THE CELL IN DISEASE. particles may not make their way. The destruction of tissue may be very quickly effected by them, and there is no operation peculiar to living beings in which germinal or living matter does not take part. Any sketch of the structure of the cell would be incomplete without an account of some of the essen- tial alterations which take place in disease, and it is therefore proposed to refer very briefly to the general nature of some of the most important morbid changes. If the conditions under which cells ordinarily live be modified beyond a certain limit, a morbid change may result. For instance, if cells, which in their normal state grow slowly, be supplied with an excess of nutrient pabulum, and increase in number very quickly, a morbid state is produced. Or if, on the other hand, the rate at which multiplication takes place be reduced in consequence of an insufficient supply of nourish- ment, or from other causes, a diseased state may result. So that, in the great majority of cases, disease, or the morbid state, essentially differs from health, or the healthy state, in an increased or reduced rate of growth and multiplication of the germinal matter of a particular tissue or organ. In the process of inflammation, in the formation of inflammatory products, as lymph and pus, in the production of tubercle, and cancer, we see the results of increased multiplication of the germinal matter of the tissues or of that derived from the blood. In the slmnking, and hardening, and wasting, which occur in many tissues and organs in disease, we see the effects of the germinal matter of a texture being supplied with too little nutrient pabulum, in con- sequence sometimes of an alteration in the pabulum itself, sometimes of an undue thickening and condensation of the tissue which forms the permeable septum, intervening between the pabulum and the germinal matter. The above observations may be illustrated by reference to what takes place when pus is formed from an epithelial cell, in which the nutrition of the germinal matter, and consequently its rate of growth, is much increased. And the changes which occur in the liver cell in cases of cirrhosis may be advanced in illustration of a disease which consists essentially in the occur- rence of changes more slowly than in the normal condition, consequent upon less than the normal freedom of access of pabulum to the germinal matter.