12 OP THE CELL. THE FUNCTIONS. exists in nature at an early period of its development. Remark- able alterations in character often occur as tlie cell advances in age, and many very different forms of " cells" result. The nature of th ese differences cannot be discussed here, but they will be explained when the structure of the various tissues is considered and their development traced. The account here given of the structure and action of the cell differs from that generally received in several essential particulars, but these differences will be noticed in then proper place. Each organized body has its appropriate and specific shape ; and to each a certain size is assigned. To observe and classify the wonderful diversity of forms of plants and animals, has given employment to Natmalists in all ages; and the sciences of Zoology and systematic Botany have been founded upon the results of then- labours. Every organized body, and eveiy part of an organized body, is limited in its duration; it has "its time to be bom and its time to die," and at death it passes by decomposition into simpler and more stable combinations of the inorganic elements. Death, however, occurs at every period of the life of an or- ganized body. From what has just been remarked with regard to structure, it follows, that every anatomical element or cell is gradually undergoing change during life. Pabulum passes into the active matter and assumes the active state, while some of the latter becomes passive and is converted into new sub- stance, which is added to that which was already formed, or takes the place of that which has been removed. It is, therefore, evident, that not even the most minute cell is at any moment composed of matter in precisely the same state in every part. There is matter which is about to live, matter that is alive, matter which has ceased to live, and matter that is undergoing disintegration and is about to be cast away. The entire cell or elementary part is not alive. The inner matter is living—the outer formed matter has ceased to live. The inner matter alone is capable of growth, of germination. It may, therefore, be called living or germinal matter in contradistinc- tion to the passive formed matter which envelopes it. As each organized body has a certain end to serve in the economy of the living world, so each organ has its proper use in the animal or plant. In this adaptation of parts to the per-