DIFFUSION. OSMOSE. 14 by a porous diaphragm, and the result is influenced by the different degrees of adhesion exerted by the fluids or gases to the septum. Dutrochet, who first studied this process, showed that if a little alcohol were placed above a piece of bladder tied over the extremity of a funnel connected with a long tube, while the under surface of the bladder were allowed to touch the surface of water, the water, owing to its greater power of wetting the bladder, woidd enter into its pores, and thus pass upwards into the alcohol. This process continuing, the mixture of water and alcohol would gradually rise in the tube against the force of gravity, and would at last overflow. Here endosmose, the flowing inwards, of the water, greatly exceeds exosmose, the flowing outwards, of the spirit. The phenomena concerned in the process have been investigated by Graham, who has shown that alkaline solutions exhibit a remarkable endosmotic power (positive osmose), while acids exhibit the contrary, or exosmotic tendency (negative osmose). In cells, and in various secreting organs, we have not only the most favourable conditions for osmose and diffusion but the means for maintaining these conditions. The process never comes to a standstill, as in our osmometers, because new acid or alkaline fluid is continually being generated to take the place of that which is removed, while the mixed and altered fluids are carried away. There is also provision for the preservation of the integrity of the porous septum, and for its reproduction. By the recent researches of Professor Graham many very interesting points with reference to the physical constitution of sevei-al substances entering into the formation of the living body have been brought to light. He has shown that sub- stances exist in the organism in what is termed a colloid state, in which condition they will not permeate a porous diaphragm; while, on the other hand, crystalloid substances will readily pass through such a diaphragm when in a state of solution in water. The fact is one of great practical importance, and has been most successfully employed for the purpose of separating poisonous matters of a crystalloid nature from then solution in the animal fluids (dialysis). The crystalloids readily diffuse themselves through a large quantity of water, while the diffusive tendency of colloids is very low. It might be said, that the " living matter" of the cell in