118 PARALBUMEN AND METALBUMEN. In disease it often happens that albumen is earned off from the system in large quantities in the urine. By any of the means above mentioned, its presence in that fluid may be detected. When heat is used it will always be advisable to ascertain previously whether the urine be acid or alkaline; for the presence of alkali prevents the coagulation of albumen by heat. Hence it is a good rule in testing for this substance to employ both heat and nitric acid. If, however, only one or two drops of nitric acid be added the.albumen will be pre- cipitated and then quickly re-dissolved by agitation. This acidulated solution, it must be remembered, is not coagulated by heat. The practitioner should, therefore, be careful never to test albuminous urine in a dirty test tube, which may contain a little nitric acid.* Gigon states that there exists even in healthy mine a substance allied to albumen, and according to Dr. George Harley, the albuminous matter resembles that form of albumen which has been dissolved by gastric juice; for, like this, it is not coagulable by heat or nitric acid. Paralbumen and Metalbumen are modifications of albumen dis- covered by Scherer in the fluid of ovarian dropsy and in an albuminous fluid removed by paracentesis. The first is very slightly coagulated by boiling. Alcohol precipitates flocculi, which are re-dissolved by water. The latter is coagulated neither by hydrochloric acid nor by ferrocyanide of potassium. Pancreatin from the pancreatic fluid is closely allied to albumen. In mammalia it is certain that many different cells can pro- duce a substance which possesses all the chemical characters of albumen. From the cells of cuticle and many other structures a solution can be obtained which contains albumen. The cells of the follicles of the lacteal glands give rise to it, and those which occupy the Graaffian follicles also produce it, and in ovarian dropsy, when these follicles are enormously enlarged, there can be no doubt that the albumen is actually formed in the interior of the cyst, for, as above stated, it differs from the albumen of ordinary serum. Moreover, albumen is found in almost all animals, and in certain of the fluids of plants. The facts above enumerated render it probable that the * Eor the methods of testing albuminous urine, see "Urine, Urinary Deposits and Calculi."