55 IN PHYSIOLOGICAL ENQUIRIES. distinguish the fallacious from the real form; and a mind, capable of detecting sources of fallacy, and of understanding the changes which manipulation, chemical re-agents, and other distui-bing causes may produce in the arrangement of the elementary parts of various textures. To these we will add another requisite not more important for microscopical than for other inquhies; namely, a freedom from preconceived views or notions of particular forms of structure, and an absence of bias in favour of certain theories, or strained analogies. The history of science affords but too many instances of the baneful influ- ence of the idola speeds upon the ablest minds; and it seems reasonable to expect that such creatures of the fancy would be especially prone to pervert both the bodily and the mental vision, in a kind of observation which is subject to so many causes of error as that conducted by the aid of the microscope. Of late years, however, great improvements have been introduced in the mode of preparing specimens, and the chances of aniving at erroneous inferences very much diminished. The structures represented in the new plates, illustrating this work, have been prepared according to the same plan, and all the figures have been drawn to a scale, so that they may be com- pared one with the other. The methods of injecting with trans- parent Prussian blue fluid and staining the germinal matter of the tissues with carmine are described in detail in " How to work with the Microscope," but the student will find an outline of the plan at the end of the present chapter. This process of preparation is applicable to those specimens which require to be examined by the aid of very high magmfying powers, and it possesses this great advantage—that every tissue can be demon- strated in the same preparation. During the last ten years we have had the advantage of the use of much higher magnifying powers than could have been obtained previously. The first -^V ever made was the workman- ship of Mr. Wenham, and was completed in June, 1856. In 1840, Messrs. Powell and Lealand succeeded in making a -Jy, in 1860, a and in 1864 the same makers produced a -gL, the definition and penetrating power of all which glasses are exceed- ingly good. The first of these objectives magnifies about 1,500, and the last nearly 3,000 diameters linear.