112 GELATIN-YIELDING SUBSTANCE. restricted to this organ. Throughout life, large quantities of amyloid continue to be produced in the liver, and in certain morbid conditions it accumulates enormously. This production of amyloid is probably associated with rapid change in the germinal matter. If this substance were formed by the ger- minal matter of the tissues in the adult state, it would exist in such small quantity in proportion to the other matters pro- duced, that we might not be able to detect it by the processes at present at our disposal. With reference to the part played by the amyloid matter in the tissues in early life, it would seem probable, from the researches of Dr. McDonnell, that it appro- priates to itself nitrogen, and that in this manner a materia] is produced which afterwards takes part in tissue formation. The same observer has advanced many arguments in favour of the view, that the amyloid matter, as it slowly escapes from the liver cells in which it was formed, takes to itself nitrogen derived from the retrogressive metamorphosis of fibrin in the blood, and that thus a protein substance, allied to casein and globuline and the matter of which the white blood corpuscles are composed, results.—(Proceed. Royal Soc. 1863, vol. xii, p. 478.) The production of these substances allied to starch and sugar, seems to be associated with limited oxidation. It is probable that the chemical elements which, in the embryo, combine to form starchy matters, would, at a later period of development, combine with oxygen to form carbonic acid and other substances, which would be excreted in a soluble form. This view is confirmed by the fact that, in the liver, in which amyloid matters are being formed throughout life, oxidation is very limited; while those morbid conditions in which the for- mation of the same substance occurs in connection with many adult tissues, especially the smaller arteries and the nervous . tissues, are characterized by a reduction in the activity of this process. Amyloid matter (glycogen) has been detected in the substance of the round worm of the pig (ascaris lumbricoides), by Dr. Michael Forster (Proceed. Royal Society, vol. xiv, p. 543, 1865), and it has been found in many of the lower animals, which live under conditions incompatible with a highly active state of the oxidizing processes. Gelatin-yielding Substance.—The tissues have assumed their permanent anatomical characters, and have commenced to per-