296 ACCUMULATION OP FAT. tion, accumulates fat in considerable quantities ; towards middle age, there is a similar disposition, which has not escaped or- dinary observation, " Fat, fair, and forty." In old age and decrepitude, the adipose deposit greatly diminishes. Differences are also constantly seen in individuals, which can be referred only to an original constitutional bent. Thus young children are occasionally so overloaded with this tissue as to be unable to follow their sports ; and it is not uncommon for a similar tendency to manifest itself towards the adult period, particularly in girls. In elderly persons, fat is especially prone to be accumulated over the abdomen, and between the layers of the epiploon and mesentery. Instances where it attains the thickness of three or four inches under the skin of the belly are not unfrequent in corpulent persons. A similar abundance occasions the " double chin." On the other hand, there are certain individuals who cannot be made fat. No matter in Avhat manner the diet may be changed in quantity or quality, there are persons whose adipose tissue cannot be in- creased. It is perhaps possible for the body to grow so egregiously fat as to become lighter than water ; but whether implicit faith is to be placed in the story of the Italian priest Paolo Moccia, who weighed tliirty pounds less than his bulk of water, and therefore could not sink in that fluid, Ave do not pretend to decide. The excessive deposit of this substance constitutes a disease, which has been not very correctly called poiysarcia. John Bull is celebrated for his proneness to accumulate fat; M. Blainville remarks, with naivete, " We have seen many indi- viduals of the English nation whom embonpoint had rendered almost monstrous; and I remember among others, a man exhibited at the Palais Royal who weighed five hundred pounds. He was literally as broad as he was long." But this tendency is by no means peculiar to Englishmen. Among the Hottentot women, the fat is apt to gather in the buttocks, and is considered a prominent mark of beauty; but this does not usually occur till after the first pregnancy. A somewhat analogous formation exists in a variety of sheep,* reared by the pastoral tribes of Asia, in which a large mass of fat covers the buttocks and takes the place of the tail, appear- * Ovis sleatopyga, fat-buttocked sheep. Pallas.