96 THE CELLS IN PNEUMONIA. material to become harder and less permeable to nutrient matter than in health. The formed material which enters into the for- mation of the liver "cell" is soft, moist, and readily permeable to certain nutrient matters. There is no cell-wall, but the outer part of the formed material is gradually resolved into soluble biliary matters, which pass down the ducts, and into amyloid and saccharine matters, which permeate the walls of the vessels and enter the blood. To make up for the disintegration of the outer part of the formed material, uew formed material is produced in the interior of the cell from the germinal matter, and the germi- nal matter which undergoes this change is replaced by new ger- minal matter produced from the pabulum that is absorbed. If such cells and their descendants are bathed with improper pabulum, and especially with substances which render albu- minous matters insoluble, or possess the property of hardening them, they necessarily diminish in size, in consequence of the formed material becoming less permeable, less nutrient matter is taken up; and of course, as the formed material becomes hardened, less disintegration takes place, the quantity of secre- tion, which really consists of the products resulting from disinte- gration, is much diminished, and the amount of work performed by the cell is reduced. Under the supposed conditions the cells shrink in size and become more firm in texture. Many gradually waste, and not a few die, and at length disappear. These seem to be the essential changes which slowly take place in the liver cells in Cirrhosis, and to these changes in the cells, the striking shrinkhig and condensation of the whole liver, so characteristic of this disease are due. From these observations it follows that disease may result in two ways—either from the cells of an organ growing and multiplying faster than in the normal state, or more slowly. In the one case, the normal restrictions under tohieh growth takes place are diminished; in the other, the restrictions are greatly in- creased. Pneumonia, or inflammation of the lung, may be adduced as a striking example of the first condition, for in this disease millions of cells are very rapidly produced in the air cells of the lung, and nutrient constituents are diverted from other parts of the body to this focus of morbid activity. Contraction and condensation of the liver, kidney, and other glands, harden- ing, shrinking, and wasting the muscular, nervous, and other