CHAPTER III. OF TISSUE, ITS STRUCTURE AND PROPERTIES.—TISSUE PERMEABLE TO FLUIDS. UARDNESS. ELASTICITY. FIBROUS STRUCTURE.— EPITHELIAL TISSUE.—CONTRACTILE TISSUE. NERVOUS TISSUE. Although the different tissues are apparently formed in the same manner, they vary remarkably in then structure, arrange- ment, composition, and properties. It is the special province of the histologist (tWo?, tissue, web) to investigate the structure and arrangement of the various tissue elements. We shall not, however, restrict ourselves to this alone, but in the course of our enquiries into structure shall endeavour to learn some- 1 thing about the development and action of the texture; some observations upon structure have been already made in Chap- j ter I, and upon page 70 will be found a tabular view of the tissues of the human body. We propose in this place to offer ] a few general remarks upon the properties and minute structure] of tissues before we describe seriatim the individual characters] of each. It has been shown that all formed material was once in the state of germinal matter. The characters manifested by the'] formed material, or tissue, after it has been produced, arej dependent, in great measure, upon the changes which occurred] during the living state. So also must we refer the structure^. which the formed material exhibits, as well as its properties] and chemical composition, to the changes which occurred whenj the matter was living, modified by the influence of external! circumstances at the moment it passed into the formed condi-J tion. Nothing seems more ridiculous than to attribute the properties of tissues peculiar to things living to the properties! of the lifeless elements entering into then composition—tol refer elasticity, contractility, porosity, or other characteristic I property to the properties of the oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon, and of other elements of which the tissue is composed.- To suggest that the addition of a little nitrogen or oxygen toi a non-contractile mass might induce in it the property of contractility would be rightly considered, frivolous, and yet suggestions as absurd have been seriously advanced, if not