4 ORGANIZED AND origin to the same Divine Author, and are reducible (as will be seen by-and-by) to the same elementary constituents, so they are subject in a great degree to the same physical laws, and are to be investigated according to the same principles of philoso- phical inquiry. In this Introduction we propose, in the first place, to consider the characters in which organized bodies agree with or differ from inanimate, mineral, or unorganized bodies, and then to refer briefly to the structure and special endowments of living beings. Next, the relation of the physical and vital forces will be briefly discussed, and we shall endeavour to show that phy- sical are distinct from vital phenomena. Life and some of the theories of life of the greatest interest to the physiologist will then be alluded to, and the diversity of the forms of living beings, and the general differences existing between plants and animals considered. Lastly, we shall endeavour to point out the value of a knowledge of physiology, especially that of man, to the diagnosis and treatment of disease, and the modes of pursuing this branch of natural knowledge. OF ORGANIZED AND UNORGANIZED BODIES. Living beings have been sometimes said to be organized in the sense of being composed of certain distinct parts or organs, each having its own definite structure, and capable of fulfilling a certain end. But if the term be used in this sense its use must be restricted to the higher organisms after they have reached a certain stage of development, for eveiy independent living organism, at the outset of its life, consists merely of a colourless, transparent semifluid matter, disclosing no structure whatever, and possessing no distinct parts or organs. Yet this matter lives; it is capable of formation, of increase, and of multiplication, and it must be regarded as an independent living organism, organized although exhibiting no structure. We therefore extend the term organized to eveiy kind of matter endowed with these peculiar powers or capa- bilities. They are characteristic of life, and are manifested by living matter which came from pre-existing living matter: never have such endowments been shown to exist in relation with any inorganic unorganized matter whatever.