OF LACUNiE AND CANALICULI. •>\\ I full grown, prior to the commencement of ossification. The germinal or living matter and the matrix or cartilaginous tissue are well seen. The drawing represented in fig. 149 was copied from a part of the tissue further inwards, or in other words, nearer to the bone tissue already formed. Here globules of earthy matter may be seen deposited in the matrix so as to form imperfect rings around the cartilage cells. The calcareous matter it will be observed has been deposited in the matrix (formed material) at a point midway between adjacent masses of germinal matter, that is, in the oldest portion of the formed matei-ial of the cartilage. The deposition gradually proceeds from without, inwards. See also figs. 163, 164, pi. XVIII. This is invariably the case in every form of bone. While this process is going on, the outer part of each mass of germinal matter gradually undergoes conversion into matrix, which in its turn becomes impregnated with calcareous matter. The next stage is seen in fig. 150, where the calcareous globules have encroached still nearer to the bioplasm, and in figs. 151 and 153 the incorporation of the earthy matter with the organic matrix is almost complete. Distinct globules are no longer to be seen, and the tissue is fast assuming the characters of fully formed bone. The calcareous matter is precipitated in distinct globules, which are well seen in the drawings, and these may be detected, with the aid of very high powers, in the formation of the osseous tissue of mammalia. Indeed, for some time after the first deposition of the cal- careous matter in the formed material, the very thin fragments of the bone, which may be torn away, and exhibi t the appearance of fibres (a fact pointed out many years ago by Dr. Sharpey), show many minute globules, pi. XVII, fig. 154, but slowly the calcareous matter becomes more homogeneous, in consequence, probably, of changes occurring in its substance, and its more perfect incorporation with the organic matrix; and ultimately the hard mass appears even in texture, uniformly transparent, and as has been already stated, penetrated everywhere by minute canals. During the progress of the changes above described nutrient material and calcareous matter in solution have been con- tinually flowing towards the germinal matter, and fluid de- prived of its elements of nutrition and earthy salts, in the opposite