288 OF CARIES AND NECROSIS. bid processes the bioplasm increases too fast, and the con- densation of the tissue which is requisite for the production of true bono does not take place. Eere, as in all other cases, rapid change is associated with brief duration, while the well- developed normal lasting tissue is formed very slowly, and the changes succeed each other in the most gradual, orderly, and regular manner. In caries, the bioplasm of a part of a bone receives too large a supply of nutrient matter, it grows too fast, and lives upon the surrounding tissue which has been already formed. In necrosis, the death of the bioplasm of many lacunae fakes place. It is easy to conceive that such a result must ensue if the supply of blood be cut off, for the currents of fluid, which during life flow through the canaliculi, and permeate every part of the bone, cease, and the bioplasts die. Changes in the small trunks which supply the Haversian vessels, ending either in their obstruction, as, for example, by clots, or their oblitera- tion by pressure, exerted upon them, as from the growth of adventitious tissue around, may cause necrosis of a coDsider- able extent of osseous tissue. Thus effusion into the deeper and more spongy portion of the periosteum, as occius in the formation of a node, may cause the occlusion of some of the vessels passing from this membrane into the compact tissue. The passage of blood through these vessels being interfered with, the bioplasm of all that portion of bone receiving nutri- ment from them must die, and a piece of bone of considerable size may become " necrosed." Immediately around this the nutrient matter would flow more freely, but of course less regularly. In consequence the bioplasm of the neighbouring lacunae would grow much faster, and thus a vast number of bioplasts would result. These would even eat away, as it were, but of course very slowly, the dead bone, which soon becomes surrounded by them. After the bioplasts have accumulated to a certain extent, many increase in size, produce formed material, which in its turn ossifies, and thus the piece of dead bone is at length embedded in new irregularly formed bone. This process goes on, unless the whole of the dead bone (sequestrum) is removed by the process above referred to, or by surgical inter- ference. Before the dead bone can be removed by the surgeon, he has in many cases to cut away very much of the new bone