ON OXIDATION. 130 From an albuminous fluid of comparatively simple composition, but undergoing constant change by the action of oxygen upon certain of its constituents, textures and organs of very elaborate structure, capable of performing complex functions, are con- structed, but, indirectly, through the agency of germinal matter. The highly important part which the blood plays both in the nutrition and disintegration of the textures of man and the higher animals cannot be advantageously discussed, unless the general nature of the changes effected in it and in the textures, by the process of oxidation, is referred to in the first place. We may then allude to the operations occurring simultaneously in different parts of the organism under the two following heads:—the production of peculiar compounds in the tissues and organs, from certain constituents of the blood of a very different composition:—the manner in which new substances are added to the blood to take the place of those which have been removed from it and appropriated. OF THE CHANGES EFFECTED BY OXIDATION. By the direct or indirect action of oxygen upon certain constituents, soluble matters fit for appropriation by the germinal matter of the several tissues are prepared, while at the same time insoluble substances which are to be got rid of are converted into highly soluble compounds, which are easily removed from the body. It has been very generally concluded that oxygen is directly concerned in the processes of nutrition and growth. But many considerations render it probable that it is required in greater proportion for the conversion of products resulting from death and decay into chemical com- pounds which may be readily and quickly removed from the organism, by which the access of new pabulum to the germinal matter is facilitated, than for the direct nutrition and increase of the germinal matter itself. Oxygen is to be regarded as a destroyer of compounds already formed, not as a pabulum. It seems subservient to the process of disintegration rather than to that of construction. It has been observed that the activity of cell growth and multiplication is remarkable at an early period of development when the process of oxidation is far less active than in the fully developed state. The organs in which these processes are most active in the adult are