AREOLAR TISSUE. The portioiiB of transparent material extending from the masses of germinal matter consist in fact of imperfectly formed tissue. Similar extensions fi-om oval nuclei may be seen in some forms of voluntary and involuntary muscle. In some of the large elementary fasciculi of the voluntary muscles of the limbs of the old frog, they form quite a firm network, everywhere in the substance of the muscular tissue. This network has been regarded by some as constituting a system of nutrient tubes, by which the several nuclei are connected together as in tendon. By others the facts have been interpreted in a veiy different manner. These same lines have been regarded as nerve fibres, ramifying amongst the sarcous particles, with many of which they come into direct contact. Both views are, however, erro- neous and untenable. The lines in question merely show that as the muscular fibre gradually increased in size, the masses of germinal matter which were originally continuous did not become completely detached from one another as the distance between them increased. We do not, however, consider that the facts allow us to regard them as of importance otherwise. In chemical constitution, elastic tissue differs remarkably fi-om the white fibrous tissue. It is unaffected by the weaker acids, or by boiling, and will resist putrefaction, and preserve its elasticity during a very long period. By very prolonged boiling, however, a minute quantity of a substance, soluble in water, which has been called teroxide of protein, and a trace of gelatine, derived from the areolar tissue and vessels, which always penetrate sparingly among its fibres, and cannot be separated by dissection, may be extracted from it. AREOLAR TISSUE. In almost all parts of the body there exists a tissue consist- ing partly of the white and partly of yellow fibrous element. This texture allows great freedom of movement between different parts of an organ, and permits one texture to glide for a certain distance over another. It is a compound tissue, and has been called from its arrangement areolar {areola a small open place); but was formerly known as cellular or filamentous tissue. Microscopic Charade?^.—When a fragment of well-developed areolar tissue is examined, it presents an inextricable interlace- ment of tortuous and wavy threads intersecting one another in