5fi PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL INVESTIGATION. PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL INVESTIGATION. Of late years our knowledge of physiology has been greatly advanced by physical investigation. The study of the processes of Diffusion, Osmose, and of the physical conditions of matter, has added much to our information regarding the nature of many changes occurring in the living organism. The invention of various ingenious instruments for ascertaining the force of the circulation has taught us many important principles which were unknown before. The further prosecution of investiga- tions upon the electrical phenomena of living beings, a depart- ment in which great success has been already achieved by Matteucci, and more recently by Du Bois Reymond, promises most valuable generalizations. The still recent discoveries regarding the influence of the solar spectrum upon different substances have been already applied to the investigation of animal fluids, and important results have been obtained by Stokes, in connection with the changes occurring in the blood during the process of respiration.* Physical investigation has greatly advanced our knowledge of the wonderful phenomena of sight and hearing, and by the aid of various optical instru- ments we are now enabled to make a most minute examination (luring life of the tissues within the eye. Haller perceived how necessary to the furtherance of physiology is a knowledge of Organic Chemistry; and we could adduce many instances to prove, that the attention which has of late years been paid to this subject, has been most fruitful in giving us an insight into the nature of many functions, which, without it, we could not have obtained. In the living body the most delicate chemical processes are unceasingly going on, for the formation of new compounds and the alteration or destruction of old ones. It is evident that no progress can be made in the investigation of these invisible processes, unless we can arrive at an exact knowledge of the chemical composition of the various substances which are concerned in them. Henceforward, in physiological research, physics, anatomy, and chemistiy must go hand in hand. By the first the physical * " On the Keduction and Oxidation of the Colouring-matter of the Blood." Proceedings of tho Eoyal Society, No. 66, page 355, June, 1864.