FORMATION OF LACUN/E. 254 any cell in the organism becomes stellate by the ' shooting-out process.' That cartilage and the other bioplasts or ' cells' may become angular is perfectly true, and that a few little projec- tions may be seen from different parts of their surface is also true, but these projections and angles have nothing to do with the formation of eanaliculi, nor do they correspond to them in number. The appearance is exceptional instead of being con- stant, and a lacuna with numerous eanaliculi may be produced without the existence, of an angular cell at all. The mass of bio- plasm is oval from the period when it first existed as a separate object to the time of its enclosure in the lacuna, figs. 163 and 164, pi. XVIII. Into each lacuna forty or fifty or more eanali- culi open, and these comnmnicate with those of adjacent lacunas. Surely, if these were formed in the manner described we ought to be able to demonstrate growing diverticula during the forma- tion of the lacunas, but nothing of the sort has been seen, and the warmest advocates of the theory have only been able to ob- serve a very faint indication of the arrangement which they believe actually exists. Then drawings only show these processes projecting a very short distance from the cells, and no one, I believe, pretends to have seen processes from two neighbouring cells in process of communicating with each other, as shown in the fanciful explanatory drawing in fig. 161, pi. XVIII. I would ask, why, if the tubes grow centrifugally from the cells, they do not pursue the shortest route and pass in straight lines ? By what force of attraction do the opposite tubes come into contact, and how is the barrier interposed between the two dissolved? But the hnpossibility of such a theory is shown in this way. Its advocates only pretend to account for the structure of the fully-formed bone, and do not attempt to explain by their theory the changes through which the tissue passes during the earlier periods of its formation. It is not only very difficult to conceive such channels formed by an out-growth, but it is inconsistent with what is generally observed. The tissue requires channels for the transmission of nutrient matter during its formation, just as much as after its formation is complete. The portion of the canaliculus which is first formed is that which is most distant from, not that which is nearest to the lacuna and its contents. The formation of of eanaliculi takes place in a direction towards and not