216 VARIOUS KINDS OF with dark-bordered nerve fibres, there can be no doubt concern- ing their real nature.* With reference to connective tissue, it would seem, then, that there are: 1. Certain forms both of white and yellow fibrous tissue which are produced directly from germinal matter as other tissues, and in which masses of germinal matter may be demon- strated at every period of life. 2. Certain forms which may be regarded as the residue of higher tissues which have ceased to discharge active functions. 3. Certain forms of fibrous tissue (indefinite connective tissue), as in the papillee of touch and taste, which result from changes having occurred in the terminal branches of the nerve fibres. 4. Certain forms of fibrous tissue, resulting from degeneration occurring in the course of disease (abnormal). 5. An appearance of fibrous tissue produced by pressure, crumpling, and stretching of nerves, capillaries, and other tissues. In a compound structure like skin, a number of bodies, taking part in the formation of special tissues, have been dismissed under the term " connective tissue corpuscles." The following bodies, composed of germinal matter or bioplasm and generally termed nuclei, are certainly present: 1. Germinal matter (nuclei) of nerves. 2. Germinal matter (nuclei) of capillaries. 3. Germinal matter (nuclei) of white fibrous tissue. 4. Germinal matter (nuclei) of yellow fibrous * Many writers in Germany who are displeased with my observations regarding the ultimate ramifications of the finest nerve fibres, because they happen to be incompatible with conclusions previously arrived at, and since repeated, that nerves terminate in ends or become continuous with other tissues, have not hesitated to affirm very confidently that my fine nerve fibres are merely " connective tissue," and this without ever having seen my preparations, or even examined my drawings with attention. They have, however, by this course placed themselves in a sad dilemma, for the fine fibres I have described can in every instance, and in many different tissues, be actually traced to distinct dark-bordered nerve fibres. My opponents must therefore maintain that the nerves terminate in fibres of connective tissue, or that dark-bordered nerve fibres (and if these, why not the whole nervous system?) are connective tissue. The latter view, however, it must be admitted is but a stage removed from the doctrine actually taught some years ago by some anatomists of the Dorpat School.—(L. S. B.)