191 TO FIBROUS TISSUE OF TENDON. A very different interpretation of these appearances has, however, been given by some authorities. The masses of germinal matter in tendon and allied tissues have been re- garded by Virchow as connective tissue corpuscles, "binde- gewebskorpercken," and he states that they are connected together by tubes. In a longitudinal section he admits that nothing like the stellate arrangement, seen in a thin trans- verse section, is observable. If an attempt is made to cut a transverse section of tendon, the stellate bodies are undoubtedly seen, but it is impossible to obtain a very thin transverse section of tendon with these in their natural position. In trying to do so, short pieces of tendon and the included nuclei are removed, with then prolongations of germinal matter and imperfectly developed formed material which resists the action of acetic acid, and being altered in relative position by the pressure to which the specimen is subjected, appear like stellate cells or corpuscles with radiating processes. In properly pre- pared specimens, however, the continuity of structure between the nuclei or masses of germinal matter, imperfectly developed formed material, and fully formed fibrous tissue, can be demon- strated. In some specimens of young tendon these prolongations from the masses of germinal matter (cells or nuclei) are well seen, and then communications are tolerably numerous. The processes are distinct enough in some places, but most of them gradually become lost among the wavy fibres with which all are connected, and of which they are but the early stage. Although they somewhat resemble fibres of yellow elastic tissue in their general appearance and in their power of resisting the action of acetic acid, they are not of this nature; their outline is irre- gular, and when examined with very high powers they have a granular appearance, which is very different from the sharp out- line and homogeneous appearance of true yellow elastic tissue. Moreover, it must, too, be borne in mind that the appearance so remarkably distinct in certain specimens is not constant. It is not seen in a specimen of adult tendon where fibres of yellow elastic tissue are found, nor in that of a kitten; and in the fascia of the frog, fig. 99, pi. XI, there is no more indication of such an arrangement than there is in cartilage. In some specimens of the tendon of the child which have been stretched and