97 MORBID CHANGES IN THE CELL. tissues, are good examples of the second. The amount of change becomes less and less as the morbid state advances, the whole organ wastes, and the secreting structure shrinks, and at last inactive connective tissue alone marks the seat where most active and energetic changes once occurred. It is easy to see how such a substance as alcohol must tend to restrict the rapid multiplication of the cells if the process is too active, and how it wo\dd tend to promote the advance of disease in organs in which rapid change in the cells charac- terises the normal state. We shall necessarily be led by these considerations to the conclusion that the rate of growth of cells in disease may be accelerated or retarded by an alteration in the character of the pabulum which is transmitted to them, and we shall be led to search for remedies which have the property of rendering tissues more or less permeable to nutrient fluids, or which alter the character of the fluid itself. Such considerations are of interest not to the physiologist only, but they have a very important bearing upon the practical treatment of disease. It has been sought in this chapter to establish the fact that all formed matter results from changes in the germinal matter, and that the action of the cell consists really in a change from the living to the lifeless state of the matter of which it is composed. This change takes place in the same definite direc- tion in all cases. The changes in the germinal or living matter must be attributed to the influence of a supposed vital force or power by which the matter is temporarily affected. The products formed by the cell do not depend iipon any metabolic action exerted by the cell-wall or nucleus upon pabulum, nor are they simply separated from, or deposited by, the blood. The matter has passed through the living state, and by ceasing to live under certain conditions, the lifeless formed materials in question have resulted. The view here advanced leads us to look upon the 'living cell' as a minute body, consisting partly of living matter influenced by vital force, partly of lifeless matter resulting from the death of the first, in which chemical and physical changes occur, and these may be modified by the influence of surrounding substances and external forces,