FOR MICROSCOPICAL EXAMINATION. 59 when immersed in a medium of considerable density, they gradually regain their original volume if left in it for some time. In practice, the specimen is first immersed in weal' glycerine or syrup, and the density of the fluid is gradually increased. In this way, in the course of two or three days, the softest and most delicate tissues may be made to swell out almost to their original volume. They become more transparent, but no chemical alteration is produced, and the addition of water will at any time cause the specimen to assume its ordinary characters. The hardest textures, like bone and teeth, may be thoroughly impregnated and preserved in strong glycerine, and the softest, like cerebral tissue, delicate nervous textures like the retina, or the nerve textures of the internal ear, may be permeated by the strongest glycerine, and when fully saturated with it, dissection may be carried to a degree of minuteness which I have found impossible in any other medium. Nor is the use of glycerine and syrup confined to the tissues of man and the higher animals. I have preparations from creatures of every class. The smallest animalcules, tissues of entozoa, polyps, star fishes, mollusks, insects, Crustacea, various vegetable tissues, microscopic fungi, and alga? of the most minute and delicate structure, as well as the most delicate parts of higher vegetable tissues, may all be pre- served in these viscid media ; so also may be preserved the slowest and most rapidly growing, the hardest and softest morbid growths, as well as embryonic structures at every period of development, even when in the softest state. I am, indeed, not acquainted with any animal or vegetable tissue which cannot with the greatest advantage be mounted thus. All that is required is, that the strength of the fluid should be increased very gradually until the whole tissue is thoroughly penetrated by the strongest that can be obtained. Glycerine has long been in use among microscopists, but my object is to show that it is universally applicable, that it or syrup may be made the basis of all solutions employed by the microscopical observer with the greatest advan- tage, that many points are to be demonstrated by the use of these solutions, which have hitherto escaped observation, and that there are reasons for believing that very much may yet be discovered by the use of these substances. From these general remarks, I pass on to describe, more in detail, the particular method I have adopted during the last four years for minute investigations upon structures magnified by the highest powers yet employed. It will be necessary, in the first place, to give the composition of the different solutions which I find useful for general purposes. 1. Weak common glycerine of about the specific gravity 1050. 2. The strongest Prices glycerine that can be obtained. 3. Syrup made by dissolving, by the application of a gentle heat in a water-bath, 31bs. of sugar in a pint of distilled water. A weaker solution can be prepared, as required, by mixing equal parts of syrup and water. The two following solutions should be kept ready prepared. They will keep for a length of time. The first is required for rendering the vessels distinct. The last enables us to distinguish with certainty the germinal or living matter of every tissue from the formed material. Tlie Injectinq Fluid.—The following mixture has succeeded admirably in my hands, and I therefore recommend it strongly. It penetrates to the finest