L69 NOT A SUPPORTING TISSUE. their own, this " supporting" connective tissue exists in very- large quantity. The intervening connective, instead of being of advantage to the special elements of the tissue, actually interferes with their action, and its accumulation corresponds with the deterioration of the organ in which it takes place. Old texture differs from young in the greater proportion of its con- nective tissue, which results from changes occurring in the normal structure. And in many painful examples of chronic disease of important organs which come under the notice of the physician, the premature decay at a time when all parts of the body ought to be still in an active, vigorous state, ; is associated with abundance of connective, this being, in fact, ! the debris of the more important texture which has wasted. It • is easy to xmderstand how the connective tissue results during the development of textures in which the permanent type of I structure is not manifested until several temporary textures have occupied the place of that which is destined at last i to remain. These temporary textures gradually disappear, 1 leaving a small quantity of what we call fibrous connective, . and this collects, in most instances, at the outer part, because the formation of the new tissue takes place in a direction from • within outwards. In studying the development of tissues, which consist of collections or bundles of fibres, as for example, muscular fibres, this point maybe demonstrated very conclusively. The new fibres originate in the centre, and great differences in character between the outermost fibres, and those situated further inwards, will always be observed. From the first the masses of germinal matter, situated most externally, only pro- duce connective tissue, and the muscle itself results from the deve- lopment of those occupying a more central situation. The same fact is noticed in the development of nerve fibres. The masses of germinal matter, situated at the outer part of the bundle, do ot produce true nerve fibres, but from them is formed con- ective tissue only. Up to a certain period the formation of true nerve fibres may have been possible, but a sufficient num- ber of perfect fibres having been developed within, the marginal bres degenerated, and took the low form of fibrous connective. But the nature of this connective, and the mode of its pro- uction, are very conclusively determined by investigating the ■hanges which occur during the development of a gland of 'ghly complex structure like the kidney. The subject is so