135 OF CARRYING OXYGEN. torily traced in the animal body; while anatomical facts render it more probable that, in the disintegration and removal of all textures germinal matter is intimately concerned, and that in- stead of oxygen acting directly upon the materials of the texture these are first taken up by germinal matter which in its turn is destroyed, giving rise to the substances which are usually con- sidered to result directly from the disintegration of tissue. Of the carrying of Oxygen to all parts of the Body.—The red blood corpuscles of vertebrate animals are the agents principally concerned in carrying the oxygen introduced into the organism by respiration, to different parts of the body. They also take up carbonic acid from the tissues and deliver it at the pulmonary surface where they receive the oxygen in exchange. The material of which the red blood corpuscles are composed pos- sesses in a remarkable degree, as has been already stated (page 126), the property of absorbing and parting with oxygen and carbonic acid gases. Fernet (Comptes rendus, August 2nd, 1858) showed that blood corpuscles absorbed twenty-five times as much oxygen as the same quantity of water, and that the oxygen could be again expelled in vacuo at 98° F. This tem- porary fixation of gases by the material of the red blood cor- puscles is interesting, and, as is well known, other substances behave in a similar manner towards gaseous bodies; for instance, ferrous sulphate will take up nitric oxide, which it again gives up in vacuo. Cuprous chloride takes up carbonic oxide, which may be disengaged from it by boiling. One per cent, of common phosphate of soda enables water to absorb twice I the normal proportion of carbonic acid, which may be expelled ! by agitation with ah-. And many other examples of bodies j possessing similar properties might be adduced. It is probable that some of the constituents of the red blood I corpuscles undergo oxidation, and, perhaps, in this way a cer- ttain proportion of urea, carbonic acid, and other substances \ may be formed; while in cases where the oxidation is imperfect, | uric, oxalic, lactic, and perhaps other incompletely oxidised i bodies may result. The property exerted by the blood cor- kpuscles of absorbing gases is, however, greatly influenced by -various agents, and there can be little doubt that the deleterious L effects of many poisons are due to the influence they exert upon I the absorption and removal of carbonic acid. The experiments