147 SAPONIFIABLE AND NON-SAPONIFIABLE FATS. The sapoiiifiable fats occurring in the organism of man are OleiiL, Margarin, or perhaps more correctly, Palmitin, and Stearin. Margarin is probably not a simple substance. PI. VII, fig. 69. Margaric acid consists, according to Heintz, of a mere mixture of stearic and palmitic acids. The fatty acids are Oleic acid (C18H3402), Stearic acid (C18H3602), and Palmitic acid (Cl6H3202). Cholesterin (C26H440), PI. VIII, fig. 77, and Serolin, are the only non-saponifiable fats found in the organism. They are very widely distributed and exist in large quantity in connection with all parts of the nervous system. They are also present in the bile; and cholesterin is not unfrequently met with almost pure in certain kinds of gall-stones. These non-saponifiable fats in- crease as the textures in which they are found advance in age. In young textures the proportion is much smaller than in the ididt, and at an early period of development mere traces are to oe detected in nerve tissues, which in their fully developed state yield a considerable proportion. Moreover, in many tissues in which at an early period, and even in a fully formed state, no ■holesterin can be detected, this substance exists in considerable proportion in old age; and in certain diseases in which morbid changes induce, at a comparatively early period of life, altera- ions resembling those which occur under ordinary circum- stances in advanced age, cholesterin is one of the substances •esulting from the altered chemical changes. Myelin.—It has been recently shown, by some very interest- ng researches of Beneke's, that the peculiar fatty matter ermed myelin may be obtained from all the tissues of the )ody. In the liver it exists in large quantity; it is found in all ■arts of the nervous system; and much maybe obtained from he yolk of egg. It is yielded even by albuminous matters and i.brin. Myelin was first described by Virchow, who showed that it ■'as not an ordinary fatty matter, as it swells up and is soluble 11 water. Its peculiar characters are well known. It is colour- «ss, glistening, semifluid, prone to form drops, and capable of jing drawn out into long threads, which curve and twist into Lie most peculiar forms. The masses often exhibit double mtours, and not unfrequently many lines may be discerned f piidistant from one another, but varying in their apparent ! lickness and intensity. Myelin is soluble in hot alcohol, ether, L 2