195 NERVES OF TENDON. ]\rerves—lt is generally stated that white fibrous tissue is destitute of nerves, but in every form numerous nerves which, however, form meshes of considerable diameter are to be detected. In the dura mater, in the perichondrium of cartilage, and the periosteum of bone, in the cornea, and some other fibrous textures, nerves are exceedingly numerous, and perform important offices. In tendon, however, the greater number of the delicate nerve fibres present are those which belong to the capillary vessels, to the small arteries, and to the veins. The first are often seen in considerable number, and not unfre- quently a delicate fibre is observed running on either side of the capillaxy vessel, connected with one another by transverse branches at short intervals. Reparation and Reproduction.—When a solution of continuity takes place in white fibrous tissue, it readily heals by the inter- position of a new substance, every way similar to the original tissue, excepting that it wants its peculiar glistening aspect, and is softer, more bulky, and transparent.* In this process the changes are analogous to those described in page 193. When the tendon is divided, the cut ends separate, and the space between them is occupied by blood and lymph. This contracts somewhat, and thus the divided ends of the tendon are to some extent drawn towards one another. In the coagulum, thus formed, numerous masses of germinal matter are formed, which separate from one another, while soft formed material is produced by them. This gradually undergoes condensation, and at last assumes the characters of ordinary tendon. The changes which take place during the formation of this new tendinous tissue resemble in all important particulars those which occur in the development of the tendon itself at an early period of life—so simple is this texture, that it may in fact be developed at any period of life, and in almost any part of the body. Certain changes occurring in White Fibrous Tissue in Disease.— In health the normal changes occurring in fibrous tissues seem to consist of the gradual increase in the quantity of the fibrous formed material, and the condensation of that which has been .•il ready produced. The fibrous tissues of the adult and of aged p< rsons contain a higher percentage of solid matter than those of the child. * We ascertained this in a case of a divided tendo Achilles.—T. & B. 1843.