REMOVAL OF ADIPOSE TISSUE. 304 compressed that it may entirely escape notice. In the young mouse such a change is commonly observed, and, not unfre- quently, the fat accumulates to such an extent that the tissue might almost be described as adipose tissue, in which the ordinary vesicle or cell wall is replaced by firm cartilaginous tissue. In fig. 132, pi. XV, is represented a small portion of the cartilage tissue of the thinnest part of the ear of a young white mouse. Each spherical capsule of cartilage tissue is occupied by a large oil globule, between which and the inner wall of the capsule the remains of the bioplasm that has taken part in the formation of both fat and cartilage may be dis- tinctly seen if the specimen has been properly prepared by previous soaking in carmine fluid, page 60. In fig. 197, pi. XX, two " cells" from the ensiform appendix of the white mouse are figured, in which fatty matter is being formed. That condition which is termed fatty degeneration of the liver, and which is very common in phthisis also affords a good illustration of the changes which occur when fat is formed. To such an extent does the change sometimes proceed, that a sec- tion of the fatty liver could not be distinguished from certain forms of adipose tissue. Not a particle of biliary colouring matter or other evidence by which the real nature of the tissue may be identified remains. In some adult fishes this is the ordinary condition of the hepatic organ, and without great care in the preparation of specimens, not a vestige of hepatic tissue will be discovered. In all these instances, however, the stages through which the gland-elementary part passes may be studied without difficulty, and specimens may be obtained which show every degree of alteration, from a transparent elementary part, completely destitute of fatty matter, to a body which appears to consist only of a huge oil-globule. It is surprising how large an accumulation of fat may occur hi the liver hi some of these cases. As much as 65-19 per cent. v;as found by one of us (L.S.B.) in one case, recorded by Dr. Budd.* Of the removal of Adipose Tissue and the absorption of Fat.— Not less interesting than the consideration of the mode of development of adipose tissue is the question concerning the manner in Avhich its removal is effected. It is well known that large quantities of fat which have been stored up in the body * " Diseases of the LiTer," 2nd ed., p. 284.