OF THE ULTIMATE STRUCTURE fluid, may result. But supposing it to remain, the portion of the matrix which occupies the canaliculi cannot be correctly- termed "processes of the bone cell." Any organic matrix remaining in the canaliculi is no doubt sufficiently permeable to transmit the nutrient fluids, but as tune goes on, it no doubt loses its original firmness and by the constant action of the fluids becomes softened, and the soft tissue is in some cases at last completely dissolved away. After bone has existed for some time, the bioplasm in the lacuna dies and becomes comparatively dry. In some cases ah- collects in the lacunas and canaliculi. I have seen in the bones, par- ticularly of old persons, a very short time after death, many lacunas and canaliculi thus filled with air, so that no doubt the air was actually in these little cavities of the bone during life. Such bone could not grow, and reparation could not have taken place had it been injured. Under no circumstances could it have passed into a state of inflammation, and Jbad fracture oc- curred, union would have been impossible. Of the ultimate structure of osseous tissue.—There has been much difference of opinion concerning the ultimate structure of bone tissue. According to some the ultimate osseous tissue is granular, while others consider that it is fibrous in character. It has been supposed that the calcareous material becomes not only thoroughly incorporated but chemically combined with the material of which the matrix of the cartilage consists. But it has been believed by other authorities that the latter is merely impregnated with the earthy salt,—that the insoluble particles are precipitated in the interstices of the tissue just as might be effected artificially in many organic substances, as, for example, thick gum or ordinary jelly. It must be admitted that arguments are not wanting in favour of both opinions upon this question. In some instances bone may be torn in the longtitudinal direction, which lends support to the view that the tissue has been, as it were, laid down in plates or superposed laminas, having a fibrous structure, pi. XVII, fig. 154. On the other hand, Mr. Tomes concluded from his researches that the ultimate structure of the osseous tissue was granular. The granules of bone are often very distinctly visible, without any artificial preparation, in the substance of the delicate spiculas of the