51 PHYSIOLOGICAL ENQUIRIES. over, the other parts. This organ, the brain, is always situate at the anterior or cephalic extremity of the animal, and with it are immediately connected the organs of the senses, the inlets to perception. We soon find that the brain exhibits a snbdivision into distinct parts, and of the relative importance of these parts, and their connexion with the organs of sense, and with the intellectual functions, we derive the most im- portant information from the study of comparative anatomy. Haller farther assigns the examination of the living animal as a valuable aid in physiological research. Many obscure points have been elucidated by experiments on living animals, and discoveries have been made which have greatly contributed to the progress of physiology. Very useful knowledge may be derived from observing the play of certain functions in hving animals, or in man himself,—contrasting them in various indi- viduals, and noting the effects of age, sex, and temperament, and ascertaining the influence which other conditions, natural or artificial, may exert upon them. The investigation of disease, both during life and after death, is of great value in enabling us to appreciate the action of an organ in health. If, for example, as Haller remarks, a particular function be ascribed to a certain part, how can there be a more favourable opportunity of testing the accuracy of such a doctrine than by the examination of a body in which that part was affected with a disease, of which the previous history was known ? If the function in question had been vitiated, or destroyed, it may be fairly presumed to have had its seat in the diseased organ. Nothing has contributed more largely to determine the functions of particular nerves, than exact histories of the symptoms during life, in cases in which they had been found, after death, in a diseased condition. IMPORTANCE OP ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY TO THE ADVANCE OP MEDICINE AND TO ITS STUDY. A correct physiology must ever be the foundation of rational medicine. He who is ignorant of the proper construction of a watch, and of the nature of the materials of which it is made, could not find out in what part its actions were faulty, and would therefore be very unfit to be entrusted with repairing it. In medicine, the first step towards the cure of disease is to find E 2