AND ANIMALS. 43 material is obtained for its formation. Within the plant or animal it becomes more completely elaborated. In plants, the absorption takes place by the spongioles of the roots. A fluid, already prepared in the soil,—water, holding in solution carbonic acid and various mineral substances,—passes through them into the vegetable organism. In animals the food experiences much change, and a more or less elaborate process of digestion takes place, before a fluid is formed, capable, when absorbed, of furnishing the materials of the blood. Plants, fixed by then roots in the soil, imbibe from it their nutriment. Animals, obtaining food from various sources, introduce it into a digestive cavity, where it is prepared for absorption. The presence of a digestive organ, or stomach, is charac- teristic of animals. The only instances in which a similar organ may be supposed to exist in the vegetable kingdom, are to be found in those remarkable modifications of leaves, called pitchers {ascidid) in Nepenthes, Sarracenia, and Dischidia. In the last two plants, these organs certainly serve to retain and dissolve the bodies of insects in the fluid which partially fills them: in Sarracenia, according to Mr. Burnett, the fluid con- tained in the pitchers is very attractive to insects, which, having reached its smface, are prevented from retm-mng by the direc- tion of the long bristles that line the cavity. The dissolved food is then absorbed into the plant. On the other hand, the animal kingdom affords some excep- tions to the presence of a stomach. In such animals, the absorption of nutrient fluid takes place by a general surface. Many of the infusoria are destitute of a stomach. A parasite of the human body, the Acephalocyst, also derives its nutriment by imbibition through its walls. A familiar example is the Acephalocystis endogena, or pill-box hydatid of Hunter. It con- sists of a globular bag, closed at all points, containing a limpid fluid, capable of growth, developing upon the inner surface of the sac little organisms, also nourished by absorption, the echinococci, which are the early stage of development of what was once supposed a distinct species, the tapeworm. Some difference may be noticed as regards the nature of the food in animals and plants. The former derive their nutriment entirely from the organized world, unless, indeed, we suppose