196 CHANGES IN DISEASE. The changes above referred to occur very slowly, and it is probable that very slight, if any, absolute disintegration and complete removal of white and yellow fibrous tissue takes place during life in the healthy state. These tissues are supplied with a very small proportion of nutrient matter, and the ger- minal matter is very slowly converted into fibrous tissue. But the fibrous material to retain its healthy state must be per- meated in every part by fluids, which slowly pass to and from the masses of germinal matter. In certain cases, fatty matters are precipitated from the fluids amongst the fibrous tissue, or result from the degeneration of the imperfectly developed formed material around the masses of germinal matter, and in con- sequence the tissue deteriorates. In the low form of soft fibrous tissue in the umbilical cord, and in the placenta, this change invariably occurs towards the termination of the period of gestation. Very numerous oil globules and pigment granules are deposited amongst the fibres and precipitated amongst the particles of germinal matter. No such appearances are observed in the early months of pregnancy when the formation of tissue is actively taking place. In the higher forms of fibrous tissue corresponding changes are observed in advanced age—changes which are so constant that we are almost entitled to consider them as occurring normally; but in persons of healthy and vigorous constitution they are postponed to a much later period of life than in those whose nutrient processes have been im- paired by disease and modified by the altered composition of the nutrient lluid. We have many opportunities of observing such a change in the case of the cornea. We have observed the arcus senilis wide and distinct in a man of forty years of age, while in the cornea of an old lady of upwards of ninety- eight the change had only just commenced. Whether these changes result from the power of the ger- minal or living matter being impaired, or from an alteration in the composition of the fluids which are transmitted to it, cannot be discussed here; Mr. Edwin Canton has shown that corre- sponding changes occur in many other tissues of the body. That such tissue changes do not hi all cases lead to fatal results is no more than would be expected, but this does not in any measure diminish their significance. Arcus senilis never occurs at the age of forty in strong constitutions, and it is very seldom