198 YELLOW ELASTIC TISSUE of elasticity being in any way impaired. The action of this tissue is often antagonized by muscles, and the delicate move- ments of the ponderous head of the ruminant are effected by the contraction of the flexor muscles of the neck, which over- come the elevating action of the elastic ligamentum nuchae. In the following situations time yellow elastic tissue is found with well-marked characters: Ligamentum nucha;: ligamenta sub/lava: chorda; vocales: many ligaments about the larynx. The internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the transversalis fascia of the abdomen, are also, in a great measure, composed of it. The suspensory ligament of the penis also consists of this tissue, and a modified form is found in the elastic coat of arteries, in the trachea and bronchial tubes and pulmonary tissue. Fibres of elastic tissue occur in con- nection with the subcutaneous, submucous, and subserous areolar tissue; and fibres generally considered to be of the same nature exist in connection with tendon and almost all forms of white fibrous tissue. Among the lower animals it is very extensively used for mechanical purposes as a soft elastic pad or buffer, or as strong elastic cords like the retracting ligament of the claw of feline animals, and the ligamentum nucha; of quadrupeds. The true elastic tissue is in every case connected with, and developed from, nuclei (bioplasts), but there are many fibres, ordinarily regarded as yellow elastic fibres, which are but the remains of tissues (nerves and vessels) which were active at an earlier period of life. See page 214. Although elasticity is the property which is universally characteristic of yellow elastic tissue, this structure does not exhibit an anatomical arrangement which is constant. As there are many different forms of white fibrous tissue distinguished from each other by the arrangement and general characters of the texture, and by the manner in which it was produced, so also we find a diversity in structure, arrangement, and mode of production of the elastic tissues. Under the microscope ordinary elastic tissue is found to consist of fibres, which are round in some, flattened hi other specimens. These fibres are very variable in diameter, usually from to ttoWo of an ^ diameter. In one bundle there are fibres varying much in age, the youngest as a scarcely visible line, the oldest of considerable thickness. The fibres bifurcate, or even divide into three; and