OF EPITHELIAL TISSUES. 163 converted into the same sort of passive substance. The relationship is however distinctly seen in disease, for there are conditions under which secreting cells cease to produce their characteristic secretions, shrivel up and waste, and are at last so changed that some of them might easily be mistaken for a very simple form of non-secerning cell structure. A gland follicle itself, with its included epithelium, is, in the first instance, but a chverticulum from the duct; which duct is but an inflection of the general surface. In the formation both of the duct and the gland follicle epithehiun is instrumental. Young cells may grow in a direction from the duct, and mul- tiplying in number may produce a little collection like that I seen in the gland follicle, or a long series may result, as in the ! formation of tubular glands. Eventually the permanent epi- I thelium of the secreting part of the gland differs so much in ! form and action from that of the duct, that had we not watched i the evolution of both we should not have been inclined to ! believe in their common origin. At an early period of development no structural differences can be discerned between the formed material produced by those masses of germinal matter on the surface which are to give rise to epithelial cells and that formed by those beneath which are to take part in the development of fibrous tissues, vessels, nerves, and muscles. But gradually the soft mucus- like formed matter disappears, and tissue exhibiting peculiar structure, and manifesting special properties is slowly formed by the germinal matter. This constitutes the tissue of the epi- thelial cell, or of the subjacent textures, as the case may be. It is the outermost layer of the simple masses of germinal matter i of which the germ consists that takes part in the production of cuticular and allied tissues. The process, having commenced, continues as long as life lasts, and the loss of old epithelial cells upon the surface is compensated for by the production of new ones beneath. But a modified form of cuticular tissue may be produced in another way altogether. Where the healing process roceeds over an extensive surface after the removal of a consider- "ble portion of skin, new cuticle is at last formed. The formation of ew cuticular texture does not only spread gradually towards the centre of the space from the intact cuticle at the margin of the wound, but new points of cuticle formation are seen to originate