243 OJT LIVING AND DEAD BONE. support the fat. In the shaft of the long bones the medulla is contained, not in ordinary cells, but in one great canal, which occupies the centre of the shaft, the medullary canal. Here the medullary membrane lines the compact tissue that forms the wall of the cavity. Both the periosteum and the medullary membrane adhere intimately to the bone. Both are abundantly supplied with blood-vessels, which, after ramifying upon them, send numerous branches into the bone. These membranes are of great import- ance to the nutrition of the bone, inasmuch as they support its nutrient vessels; and, if either of them be destroyed to any great extent, the part in contact with them necessarily perishes : and they not only cover the outer and inner surfaces of the bone, but also send processes, along with the vessels, into minute canals traversing the compact tissue, and are, through the medium of these, rendered continuous with one another. When the periosteum or medullary membrane is torn away from the surface of a fresh bone, the vessels may be seen very readily passing from the under surface of the membrane into the tiny channels (Haversian canals) which pass obliquely into the com- pact tissue. The vessels of the bone ramify throughout its substance, and if they have been injected previously to the removal of the calcareous matter by the action of acid, they will be distinctly seen ramifying through the semi-transparent animal substance. A preparation of this kind dried, and after- wards preserved in spirits of turpentine, serves beautifully to exhibit the disposition of the vessels in bone. Of living bone and of dried dead bone.—The authors of many manuals and treatises on minute anatomy have described the structure not of living or recently dead bone, but of bone which has been dead for a long time and has undergone desiccation. The student is thus led to acquire a notion of the structure of bone as imperfect and incorrect as would be that which he would form of the structure of skin, nerve, or muscle, were he to examine dried specimens of these tissues only. We desire to learn what is the structure of tissues, and how they live and grow and decay in the living body ; but the structure of bone and teeth has been described, not as it may be demonstrated in these tissues when they are fresh, but only as it appears after