190 RELATION OF GERMINAL MATTER which was most recently formed; while that which is most distant is the oldest portion of the tendinous structure. Con- tinuous with the particles of germinal matter is imperfectly formed fibrous tissue. As the germinal matter is exceedingly soft, and undergoes changes soon after death, and is destroyed by the action of water, it is not surprising that the continuity between the germinal matter and the firm fibrous tissue of the tendon should not have been generally recognized; but if care be taken to colour and harden the germinal matter, this con- tinuity is made out very readily in every hind of fibrous tissue. If tendon well prepared be carefully torn up with needles, very delicate bundles may be separated; and it is not uncommon to find the oval masses of germinal matter with portions of white fibrous tissue projecting from either extremity. From the fact that these oval bodies are coloured by car- mine like the germinal matter of other tissues, and the fibrous tissue of the tendon is in direct continuity with them, we can- not but conclude that they are the masses of germinal matter of the tendon, and bear the same relation to the fibrous tissue that the germinal matter bears to the formed material of other tissues. That this view is correct will be admitted, if allied tissues prepared in precisely the same manner be submitted to examina- tion. As is well known, white fibrous tissue is in many cases immediately continuous with cartilage and bone. The matrix or intercellular substance of all these tissues is continuous, and if a section be made at the point where the fibrous tissue of tendon joins the cartilage or bone, one tissue can be traced into the other. The fibrous appearance of the first will be seen to gradually give place to the almost homogeneous or slightly granular tissue characteristic of the last. In fig. 129, pi. XV, page 230, is represented a very thin section through the tendo Achilhs and os calcis (in that part which yet remains cartilaginous) of a kitten soon after birth. As the cartilage grows the masses of germinal matter divide, and the two portions at once separate froin one another. In the tendon, however, the two masses resulting from division remain connected together by a thin fine of germinal matter. Between the cartilage and the tendon is a layer which eventually becomes the periosteum. . The stellate character of the masses of germinal matter in this situa- tion is very distinct (under b in the drawing).