255 FORMATION OF LACUNiE. from the bioplasm of the tissue—the so-called 'bone-cell' or ♦nucleus.'" Figs. 150 to 155, pi. XVII. If the canaliculi were formed as supposed it is quite im- possible that every observer should have failed to see the pro- longations of the cell undergoing development and coalescing with those of neighboiuing cells. The extremities of these tubes which were gradually extending through the matrix would be rounded, as represented in pi. XVIII, fig. 161, and would contain germinal matter which would absorb the solid matrix, and thus the tube would extend through its substance, fig. 162. No such appearance has ever been seen. The canaliculi are no more processes of the cell which bore their way through the hard material than the canals which are left in the masses of secondary deposits in the hard walls of certain vegetable cells are processes pushed out from the germinal matter in the centre of the cell. It may be said that the growing matter extending from a spore of mildew " bores " its way into the soft material, at the expense of which it grows, but in this case the soft material is clearly appropriated by the mildew, and becomes converted into the germinal matter of the plant. This process, and the con- ditions under which it occurs, are totally different from those which obtain in the case under consideration. No stellate " corpuscle " has been found in bone, but the stellate appearance of the lacuna, with its radiating canaliculi has resulted from the circumstance that the calcareous matter has been deposited in the matrix in such a manner as to leave internals arranged in a more or less stellate manner, as has been explained. There is, however, room for some difference of opinion with regard to the contents of the canaliculi. In dead dry bone it is certain the canaliculi are tubes containing ah*. In young bone it is clear that all nutrient matter which reaches the bio- plasm must permeate the matrix, and no air exists in the tubes. The organic matrix of the original tissue imist remain as the diameter of the canaliculus becomes reduced by the gradual encroachment of the calcareous matter upon it, and it is pos- sible, and indeed likely, that after a time, by the constant passage of fluid, it may be gradually dissolved away, and thus a tube, traversed by nutrient material and always containing