IN THE MAMMA AND LIVER. 209 confined to the larger blood-vessels, and to the surface of the natural subdivisions of the organ. For the present, it may be sufficient to illustrate this remark by contrasting two important glands, in reference to this point. The human liver is well screened from injury by its position; it is liable to no change of bulk; it consists through- out of a continuous and close network of capillaries, the inter- stices of which are filled by the secreting cells. The lobules resulting from the distribution of the vessels and ducts blend together at numerous points, and have no motion on one another. Here the areolar tissue is in small quantity, and is almost limited to the larger ramifications of the vessels and ducts. The mamma, on the other hand, is, by its situation, pecuharly exposed to external injury. It is broken up into numerous subdivisions, which move with the utmost freedom on one another, and it is, moreover, liable to great temporary alterations of bulk. In this important gland not only is there a common investment of peculiar density, but an extraordinary abundance of areolar tissue disseminated throughout its interior. Thus, this tissue, so widely spread throughout the body, whether it serve the purpose of an investment to large segments or masses, under the form of a membrane, strengthening and protecting them, and escorting their vessels and other com- ponents into and from their substance, or as a web of union between the simplest elements of their organization, is to be regarded as rather taking a subordinate or ministering share in the constitution of the frame, than as being of primary impor- tance in itself. It is a connecting medium, that allows of separation between what it binds together; and it accomplishes this double purpose in a manner suited to the necessities of diverse parts, by a variety so simple in the number, intricacy, and closeness of its threads, as to be worthy of the highest admiration, while it is wholly inimitable by art. The great value of areolar tissue in facilitating the motion of parts between which it is situate, is shown by the effects of inflammation or other diseases which injure its physical proper- ties. It is well known that when the subcutaneous areolar tissue is the seat of phlegmonous inflammation, the movements of the part affected are stiff and painful, or altogether impeded, because the subjacent muscles cannot move freely by reason of