OF THE FORMS OF LIVING BEINGS. 36 lives, only in exceedingly minute portions at a time. If much lifeless matter comes into contact with living matter, the latter dies. Death is simply the cessation of the vital changes, and is due alone to the action of physical conditions. Physical forces invariably cause death, but they cannot give rise to life. Ordi- nary force and life seem to be opposed. t OF THE DIVERSITY OF FORMS OF LIVING BEINGS. How shall we explain the strange process of organization, in the production of that infinite diversity of forms, that " insatiable variety of Nature," which is so conspicuous in the vegetable and animal kingdoms ? The view that has been most generally entertained is, that the living matter of each species of animal or vegetable was created to propagate after a certain fashion, and after that only; the living matter of which these organisms consist in the early stages of development, must have the power of evolving the adult tissues of animal or plant of its own species only; the simple volvox develops, from its interior, matter which becomes volvoces ; and the cell winch forms the important part of the ovum of the elephant or the mouse, is able, by an inherent power of multiplication, to evolve the tissues and organs peculiar to each of those animals respectively. The particular endowments of the organic matter, composing the various tribes of animals and plants, are transmitted from parent to offspring. But, as is well known, they admit of certain modifications under the influence of circumstances affect- ing the parents, as is proved both in the animal and vegetable kingdoms in the production of hybrids, and of forms differing in certain characters from either parent. " Two distinct species of the same genus of plants," says Dr. Lindley, " will often together produce an offspring intermediate in character between themselves, and capable of performing all its vital functions as perfectly as either parent, with the exception of its being unequal to perpetuating itself permanently by seed; should it not be absolutely sterile, it will become so after a few genera- tions. It may, however, be rendered fertile by the application of the pollen of either of its parents ; in which case its offspring assumes the character of the parent by which the pollen was supplied." The same thing precisely occurs among animals, and the mule, produced by the union of different species, is