285 CHANGES IN FORM DURING GROWTH. Fig. 188. of the whole shaft. In this case, the first effect is upon the periosteum which cannot grow where it becomes tightly- grasped by the ring. Immediately beyond the foreign body there is, however, redundant growth, and the sub-periosteal bone-forming texture increases in amount, and gradually overlaps the ring which is after a time embedded in the newly-formed bone. In early life the cancelli are small, and there is no medullary cavity. Gradually the cancelli enlarge, and those within the shaft blend more and more with one another, by the removal to a greater or less extent of the intervening osseous walls, until at length a medullary canal is formed, around which the cancelli are very open, large, and irregular. This augmentation of the vascular cavities of bone is attended with a development of adipose vesicles and their capillaries in the new space. The fat contained in the medullary canal gradually accumulates so much, that a special artery becomes enlarged to supply it, assuming the very in- appropriate title of " the nutrient artery of the bone." Of the changes in form which occur during groioth of a long bone in length and circumference.—-The long bones Dia(?ram t0 ahow the mode or ^ ofa grow in length by the formation of TJ^'JZ^^^S. new cartilage cells at the point where EP!1phys*8;Sh\ff nrI>;aPh*8"'-. 'jf 0 ..ii^iw 0f cartiiaKe between the epiphyses and dia- the shaft (diaphysis) ioins the "evivhv- phy8i8'whioh lB the last funderff° °98i"ca- \ f oyjujiiD ^(.jjuy t,on The change in outline of the shaft at sis" dd,fig. 188. The cartilaginous por- f}aerm\*7wlh Jj a«<i '-' O r" lines prolonged from the shaft of the youufrest tion of each " epin/n/sis " increases in b0ll°t0 tne cP'"h>'ses °r th0 latC8t indicate , r r o kjv^po "» the form which the bono would have assumed all directions by the formation of new hnd »rowth taken pla0°at th0 extremities or J the shaft only, and not beneath the perlos. cells at every part of its cirCUm- teum- Altore(ltrom KOlllker and others. ference, and by the slow multiplication of those already pro- duced. The central part of the shaft (diaphysis) of a growing u 2