58 ON THE PREPARATION OP TISSUES water are destroyed completely, and experience has proved that the requisite amount of pressure can only be employed if the tissue be immersed in, and thoroughly impregnated with, a viscid medium, which is not only readily miscible with water in all proportions, but with such chemical reagents as may be required to act upon one or more constituents of the tissue for the purposes of demonstration. 2. As many structures are exceedingly delicate, and undergo change very soon after death, it is necessary that the medium in which they are examined should have the property of preventing softening and disintegration, and should act the part of a preservative fluid. 3. In order that tissues should be uniformly permeated with a fluid within a very short time after the death of the animal, it is necessary that the fluid should come quickly in contact with every part of the texture. This may be effected in two ways :— a. By soaking very thin pieces in the fluid, or b. By injecting the fluid into the vessels of the animal. 4. As different structures require fluids of different refractive power for their demonstration, the medium employed must be such that its refractive power can be increased or diminished, or that, for the medium fulfilling the former condition, another can be readily substituted which fulfils the latter requirements. 5. In investigations upon the changes which structure undergoes in the organism, it is necessary to distinguish between that part of the texture which is the oldest, and that which has just been produced—between matter in which active changes are going on, and matter which is in a passive state. It is only by fulfilling this requirement that the direction in which growth takes place, and the point where new matter is added, can be ascertained. 6. It is necessai^y, in many investigations, that the vessels should be positively distinguished from the other constituents of the tissue, and it is important that the process by which this is effected, should not interfere with the demonstration of all the tissues in the immediate vicinity of the vessels. 7. It is of the utmost importance the medium employed for demonstration should have the property of preserving the specimens, so that observers should be able to exhibit their preparations to others. Glycerine and syrup fulfil the requirements mentioned in the foregoing paragraphs. Strong syrup may be made by dissolving, with the aid of heat, lump sugar in distilled water, in the proportion of about three pounds to a pint. It is necessary in many cases to employ the strongest glycerine. In this country we have had the advantage of the beautiful preparation called Price's glycerine, which is made of specific gravity 1240. It has been said that glycerine and strong syrup are not adapted for preserving soft tissues, because the tissues shrink and soft cells collapse in consequence of exosmose of their fluid contents. But I have many hundred specimens preserved in the strongest glycerine I could procure, and I should obtain advantages if glycerine could be made of still greater density. There would be no difficulty in impregnating even very soft tissues with it. Tissues possess a considerable elastic property, and although they shrink