202 STRUCTURE AND FORMATION that from an interstitial substance originally homogeneous, con- nective tissue and yellow elastic tissue separate, or are deposited, or ' formify' (Owen), just as from a clear solution composed of two or more substances, may separate definite compounds ex- hibiting totally different forms and chemical properties. There is not, however, the slightest analogy between the two cases, and it is not remarkable that a view so strangely at variance with facts should have received little attention. It has been already shown that the apparent fibres (Virchow's tubes) which resist the action of acetic acid and are embedded in the substance of the tendon, are not composed of elastic fibres at all, but merely consist of imperfectly formed tendon which, like other tissues at an early period of formation, resists the action of acetic acid. The formation of these apparent fibres is therefore to be accounted for without supposing, that like the gelatine-yielding fibrous tissue in which they He, they result from the " differentiation " of an intercellular substance. It is not possible, nor would it be advantageous, to consider fully this long and very complicated question; but with regard to a form of true elastic tissue, one of us (L. S. B.) has remarked:— 1. That in the adult ligamentum nucha? (sheep), masses of germinal matter (nuclei), are continuous with the material of which the yellow clastic tissue is composed, fig. 108, pi. XII. 2. That these nuclei bear to the thick elastic fibres precisely the same relation which the " nuclei" bear to the white fibrous tissue of the adult tendon. 3. That in the ligamentum nuchas of the lamb and young- sheep, fibres of different ages and sizes may be obtained. The mode of development of the fibres may, hi fact, be studied as well as in an embryonic tissue. 4. That in all cases the elastic substance results from the gradual conversion of germinal matter into this structure. In the ligamentum nuchas and other parts where yellow elastic tissue is formed in quantity, the tissue may be traced into the masses of germinal matter. Elastic tissue never results from the differentiation of an intercellular substance. The germinal matter passes gradually into very soft, and this last into the fully-formed, tissue. The oldest portion of the tissue is that which is most distant from the germinal matter, as in other cases.