250 FORMATION OF LACUN7E. direction. The soft matrix of the cartilage is everywhere per- meated by these fluids ; but as its calcification proceeds, the area of the tissue, which is permeable, becomes more and more restricted, until at last the only permeable texture which remains in the bone is that thin portion which lies between the globules of calcareous matter. These lines being continually traversed by currents of fluid the deposition of calcareous matter is prevented and free channels for the conveyance of the nutrient fluids are thus retained, pi. XVII, fig. 153. These tubes or channels are therefore the altered spaces which are left between the calcareous globules originally depo- sited. They were at first triangular in outline, but gradually they have become altered by the filling up of the angles, until at last they become pores, the section of which is nearly cir- cular, fig. 164, at a, pi. XVIII. The views here advocated accord more nearly with the teachings of Henle, who compared the formation of the lacunae to the changes which occur in the walls of certain vegetable cells through the secondary deposits of which pores are left (pi. Ill, p. 84, fig. 28), than with those of any other observer. Thus, the deposition of the calcareous matter is truly a physico-chemical operation, but the formation of the matrix cannot be thus explained nor can the precise seat of commence- ment of the deposit, and its gradual encroachment towards a centre, be thus accounted for. Mr. Rainey* has described the phenomenon as if it were purely physical, because he found that calcareous particles could be deposited in a previously formed matrix artificially, fig. 158, pi. XVIII. Now, Mr. Rainey's drawing, fig. 160, though fairly representing the arrangement of a portion of dead bone, gives no idea of the manner in which the tissue is formed, for the most important element, that which is never absent in growing bone—that without which the formation of such a tissue is impossible, has been ignored, as if it did not exist. Mr. Rainey has entirely omitted the ger- minal or living matter, or bioplasm, which is to be seen in every specimen of actually growing bone, shell, and every other tissue. In every one of the spaces represented in Mr. Rainey's figure a mass of germinal or hving matter, or " nucleus," existed when the specimen was fresh. See figs. 159, 163, 164, pi. XVIII. * " On the Mode of Formation of Shells of Animals, of Bone," &c.