ON OXIDATION. 131 remarkable rather for a very limited, than for a very free, supply of oxygenated blood. In the case of morbid growths, like cancer, which are remarkable for rapidity of growth, the supply of arterial blood is often very small. In acute inflam- mation of ^the lung, the air cells become rapidly filled with "lymph," the formation of which is dependant upon minute masses of germinal matter, and these have grown and multi- plied under conditions which were quite incompatible with free oxidation. Lastly, we shall find that the anatomical distribution of the small arteries to certain secreting organs and their arrangement in the muscular and nervous tissues is such as to render it more probable that the arterial blood which they carry, takes part in the process of oxidation and disintegration of materials already formed, than that it is con- nected with nutritive operations. Although there can be no question concerning the great importance of oxygen in the changes taking place in living beings, we are still in doubt as to the precise manner in which this oxygen acts, and the particular substances with which it combines. It is possible that the oxygen may be in some peculiar state of combination before it acts, for it is well known that many substances which are not affected by free oxygen, readily combine with this substance, if it be already in i state of combination. The absence of red blood corpuscles from the blood of nany invertebrate animals proves conclusively that these bodies ire not essential to the process of oxidation. All the nutrient uices which permeate the various tissues hold oxygen and :arbonic acid gases in solution, and it is certain that in some | ases the action of oxygen is brought about solely by its queous solution. While on the other hand, it has been con- lusively shown that oxygen is directly absorbed and carbonic cid evolved by the tissues as well as by the blood; and the I xperiments of G. Liebig have proved that frogs' muscles con- inue to absorb oxygen and give off carbonic acid even after heir removal from the body. It is therefore certain that I either for the absorption of oxygen nor for the production of lirbonic acid, are the red blood corpuscles essential, but that liemical combination takes place between the oxygen and rjrtain elements of the tissues. It is not possible, however, to K 2