ON THE PREPARATION OF TISSUES 02 If desired, sugar may be substituted for glycerine in all the fluids employed, including the carmine and injecting fluids ; but glycerine, although more expensive, possesses many advantages, and, as far as I am able to judge, is the best viscid medium to employ for general purposes. One great inconvenience of syrup arises from the growth of fungi, especially in warm weather. Camphor, creosote, carbolic acid, naphtha, prevent this to some extent; but it is a disadvantage from which strong glycerine is perfectly free. Sometimes, too, crystallisation occurs, and destroys the specimen. In using first a sjrupy fluid, and then glycerine, to the same specimen, it must be remembered that the two fluids mix but slowly, so that plenty of time must be allowed for the thorough penetration of the medium used last. I keep various tests, such as alcohol, ether, the various acids, and alkalies, and other tests in the form of viscid solutions made with glycerine or sugar. The reaction of the iodine tests for amyloid matter, starch and cellulose, is much more distinct when employed in this manner. The plan is, to allow the texture to be tested to be thoroughly saturated with the strong glycerine solutions, and then to add water. In the course of a few hours the reaction takes place very strongly. The plan 'pursued for preparing the Tissue.—The general plan I follow, is the same for all tissues of all vertebrate animals and morbid growths ; but I will describe the several steps of the process as they were conducted in the demonstration of the minute structure of ganglion cells, and of the structure of the papilla) of the frog's tongue.* The description given also applies to the mode of preparing specimens of muscular fibre to demonstrate the mode of distribution of the finest branches of nerve fibre, and specimens of the minute structure of the brain, spinal cord, and ganglia of man and the higher animals. Perhaps it will be most useful to describe the mode of proceeding when a frog is to be prepared for minute inspection. My researches upon the tissues of the frog have been principally conducted upon the little green tree frog (Hyla arborea), for experience has proved to me that the tissues of this little animal are so much more favourable for investigation than those of the common frog, that it is well worth while to obtain specimens, even at the cost of 2s. or 2s. 6^. each. The student may, however, obtain very beautiful specimens from the common frog. The animal is killed by being dashed suddenly upon the floor, but it must first be carefully folded up in the centre of a large cloth, so that the tissues may not be bruised in the least degree. Next au opening is made in the sternum, the heart exposed, and a fine injecting pipe, after being filled with a little injection, is tied in the artery. The injection ought to be complete in from twenty minutes to half an hour, and sometimes in less time than this. The injection, being pale, cannot be very distinctly seen by the unaided eye, but if the operation has been con- ducted successfully, the tissues will be found swollen and the areolar tissue about the neck will be fully distended. The injection being complete, the abdominal cavity of the frog is opened, and the viscera washed with strong glycerine. The legs may be removed, the mouth slit open upon one side, and the pharynx well washed with glycerine. * " On the structure and formation of tho so-called apolar, unipolar, and bipolar nerve cells of the frog."—Phil. Trans. May, 1863. " New Observations upon tho minute anatomy of the papilla) of tho frog's tongue."—Phil. Trans. June, 1864.