114 OF CHONDRIN. rated into leucine, C6H13N02, and glycin or glycocoll, C2H5N02. The latter product crystallises in pretty large rhomboidal prisms, is colourless and inodorous. Chondrin is a substance in many respects similar to gelatin. It is obtained in a state of solution, by boiling water, from the permanent cartilages and from the cornea; also from the tem- porary cartilages prior to ossification; it gelatinizes on cooling and when dry assumes the appearance of glue. It differs from gelatine, in not being precipitated by tannin, and in yielding precipitates to acetic acid, alum, acetate of lead, and the proto- sulphate of iron, which do not disturb a solution of gelatin. Chondrin contains in 100 parts C49-9 H 6*6 N 14"5 0 28"6 S 0-4. Like fibrin and albumen, it contains a minute quantity of sulphur. The interesting researches of Dr. Roudneff, of St. Petersburg (Archives of Medicine, vol. iv, p. 304), seem to show that chon- drin undergoes conversion into gelatin by oxidation. Prior to the formation of vessels in the temporary cartilage of the embryo, that substance yields chondrin, while, after this, gelatin is obtained from it. Chondrin, obtained from permanent car- tilages, was subjected to the action of oxidizing agents, and the resulting mass it is stated gave the reactions of gelatin. The chemistry of early life differs from that of the embryonic state enormously in the greater activity of the process of oxida- tion. The functions of Respiration and Circulation are more actively performed, and the quantity of material disintegrated is considerably increased. During the early periods of develop- ment there is comparatively slight demand for oxygen. The amount of germinal matter produced is very great, and tissue is being formed and accumulates, but there is no active discharge of function, and the amount of formed material oxidized and destroyed, is very small. Little work is performed at this period of life, for work results from the disintegration of materials which have been already formed. It is interesting to note how intimately an active condition of the oxidising process is con- nected with a healthy state and a full working condition of the various organs of the body, and how many morbid condi- tions of tissues and organs, which necessarily terminate in death, are due essentially to diminished oxidation.