21 PHYSICAL FORCE AND VITAL POWER. one another in combination, so it has been conclusively proved that one kind of force gives rise to an equal quantity of the same kind of force which produced it, or to an equivalent amount, "which is constant, of some other kind of force. The exact amount of heat produced by the conversion of motion into heat has been estimated, and the mechanical equivalent of heat has been determined by the labours of Mr. Joule. A certain fixed amount of heat is always set free by the same mechanical action, lasting for the same period of time. The " motion" becomes the "heat." So the chemical combination of certain equivalent quantities of elementary substances is equivalent to the force of gravitation by which a certain quantity of matter is attracted towards, or tends to combine mechanically with other matter according to its mass; and in this mechanical combination a definite amount of heat is produced at the moment of the mechanical contact. What was motion is now heat. The same laws apply to the physical phenomena occurring in the living organism. Chemical combination there becomes converted into heat, and the latter into motion. The amount of work performed by the muscles is probably due to chemical change, and particularly to oxidation occurring in the nervous system. This mechanical action of the muscle, there can be no doubt, is one of the sources of animal heat. But it must not be forgotten that a far greater amount of work results from the same amount of chemical change in the animal economy than can be obtained by any known machinery. The wasted force in the most perfect mechanical instrument is far greater than the force which results in actual work. In muscular action, on the other hand, we have an actual amount of work performed, which seems perfectly marvellous, when the very small weight of the machinery and the very small amount of chemical change required to keep it in action are considered. Still there can be no doubt that muscular contraction is a physical process, although physiologists have hitherto failed in their endeavours to ascertain the precise nature of the change which occurs. Relation of Physical Forces to Vital Power.—It has been said that there exists not only a correlation between the physical forces themselves, but between the vital and physical forces. The forces, however, which have been denominated vital by