77 OF THE SIMPLE CELL. textures Avirich exhibit such remarkable varieties of structure and arrangement, result. Of the structure and formation of the simple Cell.—The low microscopic fungus which is known as common mildew is one of the simplest living things we are acquainted with, and well adapted for study. Some of the smallest particles of mildew capable of independent existence are represented in Plate I. figs 15 and 16, magnified 1800 diameters. The earliest condition of such a particle is shown in fig. 15. If the external mem- branous investment of a fully developed spore, or of any of the growing branches (figs. 16, 17, 18, 19) was ruptured, such minute particles would be set free in vast numbers and they constitute the living, growing matter, which may be coloured with carmine, while the envelope, or outer part of the cells, does not become coloured. The sm-face of such a minute living particle becomes altered the instant it comes into contact with ah* or water. A thin layer upon the outer part of the particle is changed into a soft, pas- sive, transparent, homogeneous substance, exhibiting a mem- branous character (cell wall), and this henceforth protects the matter within, and at the same time, being permeable to fluids, nutrient matter passes through it into the interior and under- goes conversion into living matter, which thus increases. The entire mass becomes larger. But this increase in size, it must be distinctly observed, is due not to the addition of new matter upon the external surface, but to the introduction of new matter into the interior. From this it follows that as the mass increases in size the external membrane already formed must be stretched and rendered thinner; indeed it would ultimately rupture were it not that the same conditions which led to its production cause the formation of more new material of the same kind, which is continually added within that first produced. Thus the external membranous covering is preserved, and in many cases very much strengthened by the new layers which are added. This process much resembles that by which upon a much larger scale the soft skins or hard shells of fruits are produced, and the rosy streaks upon the green covering of a young apple probably mark the tissue which was first produced, although blending so com- pletely with the green portions which are probably of more recent formation.