143 COMPOUNDS FORMED FROM THE BLOOD. portion of comparatively unimportant tissue as skin, bone or connective tissue. There can be little doubt that from the same pabulum different kinds of germinal matter produce substances having i a very different chemical composition. Nor are we able to explain why one form of germinal matter should produce muscle, another fibrous tissue, another nerve, and so on. On the one hand there can be no doubt that all these different kinds of germinal matter have descended from one, and on the other it is probable that from them all a common form of germinal matter (pus) might result; while the germinal matter of muscle or nerve may cease to produce these higher kinds of formed material, and give rise to fibrous tissue alone. It would seem as if, by virtue of some original power, the germinal matter of the embryo evolved in due order the several kinds of germinal matter which, under conditions brought about at the proper time, give rise to the formation of their respective tissues, but that if, from altered conditions, the production of the series were inter- fered with, the formation of the special compounds and tissues be- came impossible in that particular organism. The changes would go on in order until the perfect organism was produced; but any interference or derangement of these would render the ultimate attainment of the perfect form in that particular case impossible. The great importance of the nuclei, or masses of germinal matter of the tissues, in connection with each special formative process has been already indicated, and the conclusions arrived at render it very improbable that those which are constantly, and in such great number, met with in connection with the apillary vessels are unimportant, or are connected only with the development of the vessel as has been supposed. These "asses of germinal matter, varying in size and number in ifferent capillaries, and in the same vessels under varying ircumstances, often project into the cavity of the vessel, and n the other hand extend beyond the line of its external all. In inflammations and fevers these masses sometimes crease to four or five times their normal size.* Moreover, it is ell known that fatty degeneration of these capillary nuclei, and * Microscopical Researches on the Cattle Plague, a Report to Her Majesty's !ommissioners, by Lionel S. Beale, M.B., F.R.S., &c. May, 1866. Sec also plate V, g. 46, and plate VII, figs. 67 and 68.