2o2 OANALIOULT OP BONE There are few points in minute anatomy upon which such different views have been advanced as the one under con- sideration, for observers differ not only in the explanations and opinions they have put forward, but there are irrecon- cilable differences regarding their statements of fact. To assert that the cells throw out processes, is merely fanciful, for there are no facts whatever to justify such a statement. Al- though it has been repeatedly stated that the bone " cell" with its canalicular prolongations may be actually detached from the matrix into which its processes have bored their way, we have never seen any specimens which appear to us to justify such an inference, while we have utterly failed in every attempt to prepare specimens which would lead us to infer the existence of the slightest grounds for such a conclusion. With regard to Virchow's view, it may be remarked that although it is true that in certain cases hi which the bioplasm or germinal matter is more or less stellate, the so-called pro- cesses project a very short distance from the mass, they never, as far as can be ascertained, correspond, in number with the canaliculi which exist in the fully formed bone, the latter being twice as numerous as the processes in question. Almost any form of bioplasm may exhibit this stellate appearance, but it has nothing whatever to do with the formation of the canali- chow expresses himself very clearly as to the manner in which the supposed processes are formed from cells:—" The cartilage cells (and the same holds good of the marrow cells) during ossification throw out processes (become jagged) in the same way that connective tissue corpuscles, which are also originally round, do, both physiologically and pathologically. These processes, which in the case of the cartilage cells are generally formed after, but in that of the marrow cells frequently before, calcification has taken place, bore then- way into the intercellular substance, like the villi of the chorion do into the mucous membrane and into the vessels of the uterus, or like the Pacchionian granulations (glands) of pia mater of the brain into (and occasionally through) the calvarium." Again, " the cells which thus result from the proliferation of the periosteal corpuscles are converted into bone corpuscles exactly in the way I described when speaking of the marrow. In the neighbourhood of the surface of the bone the intercellular substance grows dense and becomes almost cartilaginous, the cells throw out processes, become stellate, and at last the cal- cification of the intercellular substance ensues." This view of the formation of the canaliculi will be understood by reference to figs. 161, 162, pi. XVIII, in which the processes of the cell are represented as "boring" their way through the already caloifled tissue. In fact, however, canaliculi exist long before the formation of the calcified tissue has taken place.