284 STAINING BY MADDER. many others, have performed multiplied experiments of the kind. In the museum of King's College are some good pre- parations of bones so acted upon. It is found that, in very young animals, a single day suffices to colour the entire skele- ton, apparently in an uniform manner; in these there is no osseous material far from the vascular surface. But, if we make a transverse section of one of the long bones so treated, we observe the deepest, or even the only colour, to be really on the vascular surface; the Haversian canals are each encircled by a crimson ring. This beautiful illustration is due, as far as we know, to Mr. Tomes, who has long possessed some very elegant specimens prepared in this way. In full-grown animals the bones are very slowly tinged, because the great mass of the bone is not in contact with blood- vessels ; each Haversian system, for example, has only its small innermost lamella in contact with them, and besides, the osseous matter is altogether more consolidated and less permeable by fluids than at a very early period of life. In the bones of half grown animals a part of the bone is nearly hi the perfect condi- tion, while a part is new and easily coloured. Hence, it is easy in them to distinguish the new from the old by means of madder. Now, madder given to half-grown animals colours the long- bones most deeply in the interval between the shaft and ex- tremities, and on the surface of the shaft, immediately beneath the periosteum, where the most active changes are proceeding. When madder is given at intervals, the tmts in the bone are interrupted, the layers in course of formation during its ad- ministration are coloured, while those formed during the inter- vening periods are colourless. The long period during which bones retain the madder tinge, shews that the colouring matter is not readily resumed by the blood, from its combination with the calcic phosphate. Perhaps few questions have more divided the minds of physiologists than that regarding the share taken by the periosteum in the growth and regeneration of bone, for these last are essentially the same process. Duhamel placed a ring of silver round a bone of a young pigeon, without injuring the periosteum. After some time, dining which the bone had increased in diameter, he found the ring in the medullary canal, which had acquired a capacity equal to the previous diameter