EPITHELIAL CELLS. 79 tissue, is already being appropriated by organisms of another kind which are growing upon the surface, while within it passes iininterruptedly into the germinal matter. Moreover from these observations it also appears certain that the living or germinal matter is alone concerned in the active changes which take place. It may, therefore, be concluded that the smallest independent particle which exhibits vital phenomena consists partly of matter which is lifeless, but which at an earlier period was alive, and partly of matter which lives. If but the smallest particle of the latter remains in a living state, any amount of living matter, and afterwards of lifeless tissue or formed material, may result. But if, on the other hand, all the living matter be dead, and only formed material remain, this is quite incompetent to exhibit the phenomenon of increase. In fact it does not live, it does not manifest any vital properties or powers, and although it is cer- tain that living matter must have existed a short time previously, the formed matter has ceased to live, and can never again acquire the properties it has lost. Epithelial Cells.—Epithelial cells from the surface of the human tongue are represented in various stages of existence in figs. 20, a, b, c, and 22, a, b, c, d. At first there is but a very thin layer of soft formed material upon the surface of the germinal matter, Fig. 20 a. The latter may divide, and each of the portions resulting would be invested with a layer of this soft formed material. Thus the " cells " may increase in number. Each increases in size in consequence of the absorption of nutrient pabulum, which passes through the layer of formed material, as in the case of the mildew, into the germinal matter. Thus the latter increases. But at the same time a portion of the geraiinal matter undergoes conversion into formed material, which accumulates, and as each new layer is formed upon the surface of the germinal matter, those layers of formed material already produced are stretched, and more or less incorporated with that last developed, fig. 20, b and c. For a time the germinal matter increases, while at the same time new formed material is produced. Both the constituent parts of the entire cell mcrease in amount up to a certain period of its life, fig. 22, a, b, c, but as new cells continue to be produced below, the cells already formed are gradually removed farther and farther from