CARTILAGE OF EAR. 223 manner, fig. 127. In the cartilages of old persons, the matrix near the masses of germinal matter not unfrequently becomes infiltrated with calcareous matter and thus a form of osseous tissue results. In the cartilage of the ear the cells are small, and very close to each other; in shape they are very uniform, and vary in size from -pgVg- to of an inch. The formed material "intercellu- lar substance" is not exactly white fibrous tissue ; but so nearly resembles it, especially towards the surface, as to make this form of cartilage approach fibro-cartilage more nearly than does any other. Cartilage of the Ear of the Mouse.—A very interesting form of cartilage which seems to consist entirely of separate cells packed closely together, as in ordinary epithelium, is to be obtained from the delicate membraniform cartilage of the ear of the mouse and other small animals. At short distances from one another, are holes, which in the dissected or partially macerated cartilage, are seen to pass right through, giving it a cribriform appearance if examined by low powers. In a care- fully prepared and injected specimen, it will however, be found that these spaces are occupied by vessels and nerves, which pass through them from one perichondria! surface to the other. The cells at the margins of these openings are very small, and in fact the new cartilage is formed in these situations. By making veiy thin sections through the tissue, " cells " of every age may be discovered, and the mode of division of the ger- minal matter, and the production of the formed material corresponds in all essential particulars with what takes place in other forms of cartilage. It is remarkable that the production of fat shoidd be associated with the formation of cartilaginous texture in this form of the tissue. Each of the so called " cells" might almost be described as a fat vesicle, the walls of which are composed of cartilage instead of delicate transparent mem- brane, but this will be considered in connection with adispose tissue in chapter VII. See fig. 132, pi. XV., page 230. Perichondrium.—The membraniform cartilages are invested by a layer of white fibrous tissue, containing blood-vessels, and called the perichondrium. Its fibres are densely interwoven in all directions, and adhere intimately to the intercellular substance of the cartilage. This investment corresponds with