OF THE TISSUES. 73 Although the various tissues existing in the fully developed organism differ remarkably from one another in structure, physical properties, chemical composition, and action, they all pass through a similar series of changes during then formation. The production of the matter of which the outer part of the simple cell of mildew is composed, is the result of changes probably veiy similar in essential nature to those which end in the production of the highest and most complex cell in the nervous system of man, and, when successive layers are to be demonstrated in the outer part of any cell, as is often the case, they have been deposited in the same order. We are as ignorant of the real cause and of the nature of the one process as the other. But it is reasonable to infer that if we could ascertain the nature of the changes which actually take place in the simplest living beings during their growth and multi- plication, the modifications which occur in the most complex would veiy soon be understood. Although we cannot understand or explain how phenomena, which we can observe without difficulty, result, we can demon- strate certain facts, in connection with cell formation, of the utmost interest. We may infer the course taken by the lifeless nutrient material when it is absorbed by the living elementary part or cell, because we can see coloured fluid pursuing the same course when the cell is even detached from the living body and placed under our microscopes. We can show where the inanimate pabulum becomes changed and acquires new and wonderful properties which in turn it can communicate to new inanimate matter. We can observe actions in this altered matter which we cannot explain, but which we may with reason refer to these newly-acqiiired powers ; the actions and changes which take place in this matter are very different to anything familiar to us apart from living beings, and hence to these we limit the term vital. We can demonstrate where the tissue is first produced, and the precise position in which new tissue is added to that which already exists. We can show which is the youngest and which is the oldest portion of a tissue, and we can give some explanation of the mode in which the old tissue which has done its work is destroyed and removed. Lastly, in certain cases we can show how, after the old tissue has been removed, new and more complex structure takes its