87 NUCLEUS—NUCLEOLUS. the formed material. In the formation of the contractile tissue, the germinal matter seems to move onwards, while pos- teriorly, it gradually undergoes conversion into tissue. At the same time it absorbs nutrient material, and thus there may be no loss in bulk in a mass which has been instrumental in the production of a considerable amount of contractile tissue. The drawings represented in fig. 41, plate IV, will enable the student to understand the relation of the germinal matter to the contractile tissue, or formed material of muscle. On the Formation of Nerve Fibres.—Nerve fibres consist of formed material which is structurally continuous with that of the cells with which they are connected. At an early period of its development a nerve fibre appears to consist of a number of masses of germinal matter, linearly arranged. As develop- ment advances, these become separated farther and further from one another, and the tissue formed between them con- stitutes the fibre of the nerve. Fig 42, plate IV, represents a dark-bordered nerve fibre from the frog at an early period of its development. Of Living or GerminalMatter. Of the "Nucleus" and "Nucleolus." —In the foregoing account of the structure and mode of forma- tion of tissue it has been shown that even the smallest living organism with which we are acquainted does not consist of matter in the same state in every part, but that the material within (germinal or Kving matter) possesses powers or properties of which the formed material, be it solid or fluid, is entirely destitute. Each mass of germinal matter with a proportion of the formed material around it, is a cell. All hving cells consist of matter in these two veiy different states. The one state being an active condition vital; the other being a passive state in which no vital actions are manifested. The importance of this distinction is very great, because, as will presently be shown, the matter in the first or living state is that upon which all growth, multiplication, conversion, formatioD, in short life, depends; while, in the second con- dition, the matter may exhibit very peculiar properties, and it may have a most complex chemical composition; but although it may increase by new matter being added to it, it does not grow or multiply, it does not convert or forru—it does not