OSSIFICATION OF CARTILAGE 272 THE DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. In the earliest period of life at which the skeleton can he detected amongst the soft pulpy tissue of which the embryo is constituted, it is found to consist of " cells " or elementary parte forming the simplest form of cartilage. The formed material which at first is so soft as to he destroyed by very slight pres- sure of the finger, gradually acquires consistency, loses water, and slowly increases in density and firmness. The temporary cartilages of the mammalian skeleton have the same general shape before as after their ossification; and as this process is slow, and not finally completed until adult age, they share during a considerable period in the functions of the bony skeleton. In mammalia, bone commences to form at a very early period of intrauterine life in two ways : 1. By the ossification of tem- porary cartilage. 2. By the ossification of fibrous membrane. The temporary cartilage exhibits the same shape as the future bone is to assume, but it contains no medullary cavity. It gradually undergoes conversion into a temporary and imper- fect kind of osseous tissue, which is afterwards removed, and true bone formed in its stead. The formation of the "permanent hone in mammalia corres- ponds in all essential and important particulars with the pro- cess which occurs in fibrous membrane (see page 280), and which results in the formation of osseous tissue. This fibrous texture is not preceded by any form of cartilage. Noav, in. the frog, the changes which occur during ossifica- tion accord with those which have been described as taking place in the temporary cartilage of the bones of the skeleton of man and mammalia; but the changes proceed gradually until the bone is complete, instead of ceasing at a very early period, before, in fact, true bone is formed, as occurs in the latter. In many of the lower vertebrata, which continue to grow as long as they live, the bones gradually increase in extent during a considerable period of life, and the formation of the perfect bone results from gradual and uninterrupted changes occurring in the cartilage, new cartilage tissue being produced beyond the bone already completely developed.