269 PERIOSTEUM AND MEDULLARY MEMBRANE. in the parietaJ Lone, but are to be found in other situations. They have been observed by Kb'lliker to exist in great numbers in fishes and Amphibia, and Sharpey has no doubt of their existence throughout vertebrata. H. Midler, of Wurzburg, has stated that some of these fibres are of the nature of yellow elastic tissue, and he explains the tubes which are occasionally met with in bone, and were described by Tomes and De Morgan, by supposing that the uncalcified perforating fibres which originally occupied them had become dried up. Sharpey con- curs in this explanation. It is not improbable that some ap- pearances occasionally seen in the perpendicular sections through the compact tissue of the flat bones of the cranium may be due to a modification of the ossifying process occurring in the remains of the vessels and connective tissue which existed at an early period of embryonic life, and formed a temporary tissue, in which the development of true bone was subsequently carried out. Periosteum and Medullary Membrane.—The periosteum is usually described as a fibrous membrane, which gives support to numerous nerves and blood-vessels. Its outer layers exhibit a simply fibrous structure, but its deeper portion, which is con- tinuous with the bone tissue, exhibits a totally different ana- tomical arrangement. Here are seen a number of elementary parts of unossified bone tissue, each consisting of an oval mass of bioplasm invested by a soft formed material. The deeper layer of the periosteum of a young animal is the seat of the formation not only of new bone but of complete Haversian systems. The elementary parts multiply and the capillary vessels are gradually enclosed by the growth of tissue, which at length undergoes ossification, see fig. 187, p. 282. This process has been fully described by Messrs. Tomes and De Morgan. The vessels from both periosteum and medullary membrane pass into the openings of Haversian canals, and when these membranes are gently torn away from recent bone, the small vessels may be seen without difficulty, extending from the deep surface, and penetrating into the canals of the compact tissue. It has been shown by M. Oilier, of Lyons,* that if portions of the periosteum be transplanted to various parts of the organism, * "Journal de la Physiologie," torn, ii., pp. 1 and 169. T 2