2 ULTIMATE PACTS. THEORIES. lighl upon their nature. If the phenomena under observation be complex, we must analyse them with a view to ascertain the simpler ones of which they are composed. By this analysis, and by the elimination of such as are merely collateral, we arrive at a phenomenon, uncomplicated, incapable of farther subdivision, and fundamental; and this we are contented to receive as an ultimate fact, the result of a law in constant and universal opera- tion. The accumulation of observations and experiments affords us Experience; points out the ordinary succession of phenomena, and teaches us the ways of Nature. If these phenomena are found to present a certain uniformity, we are authorized to refer them to the operation of one common Cause, and we are thus led to the expression of the Law which regulates their occurrence. Proceeding in this way, we are enabled to explain the whole train of phenomena which have been investigated,—that is, to devise a Theory which develops the rationale of then occurrence. But sometimes our. experiments and observations throw an imperfect light upon the phenomena which are the subjects of investigation; or the latter are so remote, or so little under our control, as to render both observation and experiment extremely difficult, and hi some cases impossible. The " instances " which we are enabled to collect are, consequently, dubious and obscure, and point darkly or not at all to ultimate facts; they present little or no general resemblance, and cannot be properly asso- ciated together. Here is no foundation on which to build a theory; but great advantage may be gained, if, with the little light we derive from these particular observations, aided by previous knowledge of general laws, we can frame an hypothesis, offering some explanation of the phenomena. The adoption of such an hypothesis, even for a temporary pmpose, will " afford us motives for searching into analogies," may suggest new modes of observation and experiment, and "may serve as a scaffold for the erection of general laws." Previously to the time of Lavoisier, chemists were perfectly familiar with the occurrence of combustion under various cir- cumstances; but the opinions (hypotheses) which prevailed as to the real nature of this process, afforded a very unsatisfactory explanation of it. Subsequently, however, by the labours of Lavoisier, Davy, and others, this complex phenomenon has been observed in all its phases; it has been carefully analysed, and