230 DEVELOPMENT tilago assumes is stellate, the processes of one mass being continuous ■with those of others, resembling very closely the arrangement of the so-called stellate cells of the cornea, and certain connective tissue corpuscles, fig. 94, pi. X, p. 182. The germinal matter of cartilage exhibits the same general characters as that of other tissues. In some cases, one new- centre (nucleus) only is seen in each; in others, two or more. In inflamed cartilage, each mass of germinal matter may con- tain several new centres (nuclei, nucleoli), and these may in- crease in size, and give rise to new series within them. Movements in the living germinal matter have been seen by Heidenhain, who induced them by causing an electric current to traverse the cartilage. The form of the masses was much altered, but at length coagulation, consequent upon the death of the living matter, took place. Movements occur ha every form of germinal matter, but they can only be observed in some tissues. Cartilage and the cornea are among the most favourable for observation. 'Development.—The mode of development of cartilage will be understood by reference to the drawings in pi. XVI. In fig. 134 large oval masses of germinal matter are seen to be separated from each other by a very thin layer of soft formed material (matrix), which is slightly granular, but it is not coloured by the carmine solution. In fig. 135 the mass of germinal matter has increased in size, but as this substance grows, the conver- sion of its outer portion into formed material proceeds, and therefore the entire elementary part, consisting of germinal matter and surrounding formed material (cell and coiTesponding portion of matrix) becomes larger. The next stage is shewn in fig. 136. Several zones, exhibiting different shades of colour, are now seen; the outer one, which passes into the formed material, being the most faintly, the innermost portion of the germinal matter (nucleus), the most darkly, tinted, although to reach this the solution must have passed through all the outer layers. In figs. 137, 138, growth of the entire elementary part seems to have ceased, but the conversion of the oldest part of the germinal matter into formed material proceeds, until at last only a small portion remains, and this in many instances dies and an oval collection of granules, which are not tinged red with carmine, fig. 139, is all that marks the position of the