186 LIGAMENTS AND TENDONS. out of a wound have been cut without the patient being aware of it. The flexibility of fibrous tissue is owing to its containing a small proportion of water. A tendon, ligament, or fibrous membrane, will dry readily ; it then becomes hard and rigid; it resists the putrefactive process when not kept moist, and even then putrefies less readily than the softer textures. Acetic acid causes it to swell up, instantly removes its peculiar appearance of wavy fibres, and displays the remains of the masses of germinal matter concerned in its development. Gelatine may be extracted in considerable quantity from white fibrous tissue by boiling. Of the different Forms of White Fibrous Tissue.—A. Ligaments. —Ligaments are connected with joints. They pass in deter- minate directions from one bone to another, and serve to limit certain movements of the joint, while they permit others. They therefore, constitute an extremely important part of the articular mechanism in preserving the integrity of the joint in its various movements.—There are three principal kinds of articular liga- ments :—1. Funicular, rounded cords of white fibrous tissue, of which we may give as examples the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint, the perpendicular ligament of the ankle-joint, &c.: 2. Fascicular, flattened bands, more or less expanded; ex. internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, lateral ligaments of the elbow-joint, anterior and posterior ligaments of the wrist- joint, and, indeed, the great majority of ligaments in the body: 3. Capsular; these are barrel-shaped expansions, attached by their extremities around the margin of the articular surfaces composing the joint, and forming a complete but a loose invest- ment to it. The capsular ligament is highly developed in the enarthrodial or ball-and-socket joint, and permits the very free movements required. Good examples are found in the only two perfect examples of that form of articulation, namely, the shoulder and hip joints. B. Tendons.—Tendons serve to attach muscle to bone, or some other part of the sclerous system. We may enumerate three varieties of tendon, as regards form:—1. Funicular, e.g. long tendon of the biceps cubiti; 2. Fascicular, short tendon of the same muscle, and most of the tendons of the body; 3. Apo- ■ neurotic, tendinous expansions, sometimes of considerable extent,