42 OF PLANTS differences can be demonstrated to have occurred in the varieties of existing species; but this is a subject which has not yet been touched upon by Mr. Darwin or by those who have embraced his views. Animals may differ in many charac- teristics but still retain the most striking resemblance in all essential biological characters, or they may resemble one another in external form and general characters but differ most mate- rially in internal structure. If a careful comparison should be made of everything in connection with the formation of structures throughout the life of closely allied but distinct species and between the most different varieties of the same species, it is probable that such essential points of difference in the one case, and agreement in the other, would be demonstrated as would suffice to convince the warmest advocate of Mr. Darwin's views that more minute investigation was required before his doctrine, as applied to the origin of all species, could be admitted to rest upon a satisfactory basis. OF PLANTS AND ANIMALS AND OF THE FUNCTIONS. It is impossible to define precisely a boundary between the vegetable and animal kingdoms, and any attempt to lay down characters which shall distinguish plants from animals in every case must fail. The lowest animals are said to exhibit so much of the plant nature that naturalists are as yet undecided as to the true location of some species. The common sponge, for instance, a short time since was claimed for each kingdom, but there can now be no doubt of its animal nature. The important phenomena of plant and animal life are, in fact, the same in then essential nature. Still it will be advantageous to recount briefly some of the most important general characters in which the fully developed animal differs from, or agrees with the fully developed plant. The first step in the nutritive functions of both plants and animals, is to form a fluid, which contains all the elements necessary to nourish the various textures, and to supply materials for the secretions. This fluid is, in plants, the sap; in animals, the blood. In both classes of beings a process of absorption precedes the full development of the nutritive fluid: it is by this means that