177 WANDERING CELLS. fi°\ 84, pi. IX, with germinal matter, and, as will be pointed out, the same fact is noticed in the case of the so-called nuclear fibres of ordinary tendon.—See p. 189. This imperfectly formed fibrous tissue refracts highly, and resists the action of acetic acid, while fully formed fibrous tissue is rendered transparent by it. The property of resisting the action of acetic acid does not, however, prove that a texture consists of elastic tissue, for, as is well known, nuclei generally resist the action of this reagent, which is so much employed in anatomical investigation for rendering the fully formed tissue transparent, and the nucleus, or mass of germinal or living matter, with the developing formed material around it, more distinctly visible. Wandering Cells in Connective Tissue.—In connective tissue free masses of germinal have been detected, which have been observed to alter in form, and move like the white blood corpuscle, mucus corpuscle, and the germinal matter of the con- nective tissue itself. Kecklinghausen, by whom they were first observed in the cornea, has given to these the name of wandering cells. In the tissues of the larvae of the cold-blooded vertebrata such cells may be distinctly seen, and the alterations in form continue for some time, after the tissue in which they are present has been removed from the body. Various opinions have been expressed concerning their nature, but it will be remembered that one of us (L. Beale), in 1861, arrived at the conclusion, that all forms of germinal matter possess in- herent powers of movement. The movements of the mucus cor- puscles were minutely described, and soon afterwards (1863) the passage of particles through the capillary walls was referred to. These particles, detached from white blood corpuscles, were seen in the blood, and in the tissues external to the capillary vessels. The mode of formation of a thread of fibrin from a white blood corpuscle was watched, and the manner in which muscular tissue, white and yellow fibrous tissue, were formed, as the mass of germinal matter moved onwards was pointed out. It is probable, that of the so-called wandering cells in con- nective tissue, some are descended from white blood corpuscles, others from lymph corpuscles, some from the germinal matter of the connective tissue itself. Many probably pass into the lymphatics and some into the capillaries; a few perhaps become transformed into fat. In certain forms of disease these free