CHAPTER I. OV STRUCTURE.—OF THU TISSUES GENERALLY.—OF THE CELL, OR ELEMENTARY PART. DIFFERENT FORMS OF CELLS.—OF INTERCEL- LULAR SUDSTANCE.—OF THE LIVINO OR GERMINAL MATTER OF THE CELL.—OF THE DEVELOPMENT AND MULTIPLICATION OF CELLS.—OF THE CHANGES IN THE CELL IN DISEASE. In certain tissues we are unable, even -with the aid of the highest powers, to demonstrate any structural peculiarities whatever. But it must be borne in rnind that in some appa- rently perfectly homogeneous textures distinct structure may be demonstrated by special methods of investigation. Various plans of tinting have been employed for tliis purpose, and solu- tions of rosanilin dye, nitrate of silver and other soluble colouring matters have been found veiy useful. It is, therefore, not impro- bable that future research will prove that many tissues which are now considered perfectly structureless and homogeneous possess distinct structure. The different physical properties of tissues seem to be due in part to their chemical composition and partly to peculiarities in what may be termed the build of the texture. The differences in structure and properties of the various tissues must not be attributed merely to a difference in the composition of the nutrient material which takes part in their production, for, from the same pabidum, matter different hi physical properties and chemical composition may be produced through the agency of structureless living matter. Nor can we trace the cause of the difference in structure of the tissues to difference in structural character, or chemical composition of the germinal matter from which they are formed. So far from this being the case it seems that the very different textures in the body all result from changes in germinal matter having, as far as can yet be ascertained by observation, precisely the same characters. And we know that all the masses of germinal matter concerned in the process have the same origin. It seems, therefore, upon the whole, more probable that the masses of germinal matter of the different tissues produce from the same nutrient constituents, .substances differing in composition and in texture by virtue oj