183 RADIATING CELLS. cells of the cornea. These were discovered by Mr. Toynbee in 1841. They have since been looked upon as peculiar to unde- veloped elastic tissue, and, like those already considered, are supposed to be connected with channels for conveying the nutrient juices. Even Kolliker, who nevertheless maintains that white fibrous tissue is developed from cells, considers these cells or nuclei to be distinct from the fibrous tissue, and accepts Viichow's explanation of their office. He remarks:—"It is probably beyond doubt, that the nutrient fluid, which con- tinually saturates the cornea in large quantity, is chiefly con- victed and distributed further into the interior by the cells in question." If this be so, the nutrient fluids must be circulating in channels which lie between the fibrous bundles that are to be nourished. On this supposition it is not easy to explain by what process the fluid is made to pass into the innermost parts of the bundles, and by what forces constant interchange of fluid is effected. These so-called radiating cells, the branches of which anas- tomose freely with one another, are the masses of germinal matter of the cornea. They are directly concerned in the formation of the proper fibrous tissue of the cornea, and are much more numerous in a given bulk of young, than of fully leveloped tissue. The arrangement of these bodies is shown in 5g. 94 and in fig. 94*, pi. X. The fluids attracted towards these masses of germinal matter pass through the substance of the fibrous bundles, and thus the integrity of the tissue is preserved. They lave nothing in common with yellow elastic tissue, except that, ike this tissue, they resist the action of acetic acid. See observations on page 177. In the adult corneal tissue fluid may be forced into the spaces in which the germinal matter and its prolongations are iituated, and may be forced from these between the lamellated I ibres. In this way the " corneal tubes," which can be readily njected with mercury, are produced.* * The corneal tubes may be injected in the cornea of the ox by proceeding as allows: after the muscles and their attachments have been carefully dissected from I he globe, the epithelium and remains of the conjunctiva are to bo scraped from the I orneal surface, the eye being held firmly in the hand and pressed moderately. A large I eedlo or sharp pointed knife may now be introduced into the corneal tissue at the l.ide, and carried a little way into its substance and thon horizontally for about a