57 PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL INVESTIGATION. phenomena, which play so important a part in the changes ■which take place in complex organisms, may be elucidated; by the second, the minute mechanism concerned in these pheno- mena is ascertained; by the third, the nature of the chemical analyses and syntheses taking place in the living organism are to be determined. Here is a wide field of research open for the employment of every kind of mind, and by devoting himself to one or other of these departments, every earnest student may contribute important aid to the advance of physiology, and thereby to the progress of medicine and surgery. In the composition of the Introduction, the authors have to acknowledge valuable aid from the following works:—Haller, Elementa Physiologise Corporis Humani; Barclay on Life and Organization; Roberton on Life and Mind; Prichard on the Doctrine of a Vital Principle; Dr. Carpenter's article Life, and Dr. Alison's article Instinct, in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology; L. Pasteur, papers in the Comptes Rendus, 1859—64; F. A. Pouchet, Heterogenic; Joule, papers in the Phil. Trans.; Julius R. Mayer, Die Organische Bewegung ; Tyndall, Heat as a Mode of Motion; Grove on the Correlation of the Physical Forces ; Helmholtz, Erhalts- ung der Kraft; Lectures at the Royal Institution; Carpenter on the Correlation of Physical and Vital Forces, Journal of Science, Nos. I. and II.; Graham's papers on Diffusion, Osmose, Crystalloids and Colloids, Phil. Trans. 1850—64; Darwin on the Origin of Species ; Huxley, Lectures on the Origin of Species, and Elements of Com- parative Anatomy; Carpenter, Principles of Physiology; Herbert Spencer's First Principles and his Principles of Biology; Beale, the Anatomy of the Tissues, the Microscope in Medicine, and papers in the Archives of Medicine and Microscopical Journal. On the Preparation of the Tissues of Man and the higher Animals and Morbid Growths, for Microscopical Examination with high powers. It has been thought desirable to describe briefly the general method which has been employed in preparing specimens for examination with the highest powers, in the hope that the student may be encouraged to pursue some of the inquiries entered upon in this work, and that many of the investigations may be extended still further. In the first place, it is necessary to consider what circumstances interfere with the perfect demonstration of structure under the highest powers of the microscope, and how the disadvantageous operation of these might be pre- vented or diminished. 1. Of many tissues, sections sufficiently thin for high powers cannot be obtained by the processes usually adopted. In order to make the specimen thin enough, pressure must be employed, and in many instances very strong pressure is required. Even by very moderate pressure, tissues immersed in