206 WHITE AND YELLOW ELEMENT The others are long, single, elastic, branched filaments, with a dark, decided border, and disposed to curl when not put on the stretch. These interlace with the others, and sometimes coil spirally round the bundles of wliite fibrous tissue, but appear to have no continuity of substance with them. They are for the most part about the -H^nro of an inch in diameter ; but we often see, in the same specimen, others of much greater thickness. These form, the yellow fibrous element (115&). These two tissues, as already mentioned, may be most easily discriminated by the addition of a drop of dilute acetic acid, which renders the first clear and transparent without producing any alteration in the other. After the action of the acid upon the bands of white fibrous tissue, there often remains in them an appearance of more or less wavy transverse lines at pretty equal distances, remotely resembling those on the fibre of striped muscle. These are found to be very distinct, clear, and regular, and situated within short distances of one another in the fibrous tissue from the subcutaneous areolar tissue of the human embryo. In the earliest period at which the areolar tissue can be examined, it consists of masses of germinal matter having offsets which are connected with one another. The formed material produced by these is at first homogeneous; the longi- tudinal streaks and the wavy character appear subsequently. We have observed frequently among the threads of areolar tissue taken from adult subjects a number of corpuscles, fig. 115(Z, either isolated or having very delicate prolongations among the neighbouring threads. These seem with great probability to be either advancing or receding stages of the tissue (T. and B. 1843). By the endless crossing and twining of the microscopic filaments, and of fasciculi of them, among one another, a web of amazing intricacy results, of which the interstices are most irregular in size and shape, and all necessarily communicate with one another. This is well seen by forcibly filling the tissue with air or water in any region. In the living bbdy this is very obvious in oedema and anasarca, and in traumatic em- physema, as in the remarkable case related by Dr. W. Hunter in his celebrated paper (Med. Obs. and Inquir. vol. ii. p. 17), where the whole body was blown up so tensely as to resemble a drum.