RECENT THEORIES OF LIFE. 32 not peculiar to the germ, for there is not a living cell in any organism at any period of life in which such phenomena are not manifested in some degree. Moreover, long before any tissue is produced, a mass of living matter may be removed from an organism and carried far away from the influence of " directive agency," and may nevertheless give rise to tissues like those of the organism from which it was derived. Is the directive agency capable of being divided and subdivided, each subdivision having an influence equal to that of the whole ? If so it can hardly be compared to the control exercised by the superintendent builder. Mr. G\ H. Lewes defines life as " a series of definite and successive changes, both of structure and composition, which take place within an individual without destroying its identity." It is doubtful if a series of changes is necessary to life ; all we know is that lifeless matter passes into living matter and lives. Living matter exhibits no structure whatever, so that life may certainly exist without involving changes of structure. The definition seems to apply to the life of man and the higher animals rather than to living things generally. There are many masses of living matter which cannot be regarded as indivi- duals. A white blood corpuscle or a ptis-corpuscle is alive but it exhibits no structure and we know nothing of its composition while it lives. It cannot be regarded as an individual unless an individual may consist of millions of individuals, and many of these individuals differ from one another in veiy many essential points. Moreover, when a mass of hving matter takes pabu- lum, increases in size and divides into numerous masses, what becomes of its identity? Such words as "individual" and "identity" would destroy the value of any definition. Mr. Herbert Spencer proposes to define life as " The definite combination of heterogeneous changes, both simultaneous and successive, in correspondence with external co-existences and sequences." While this definition does not exclude lifeless machines it is doubtful if it would include many things which possess life although apparently quiescent. This writer, how- ever, admits " the tendency to assume the specific form, inherent in all parts of the organism," which is peculiar to hving things. He does not, however, attempt to explain the nature of the tendency, or why hving matter alone exhibits it. What causes