27 THEORIES OF LIFE. it is enabled to construct such a mechanism from natural elements and by the aid of natural agencies, as to render it capable of taking further advantage of their properties, and of making them subservient to its use." The hypotheses of Aristotle, Miiller, and Prout, and the earlier of those proposed by Harvey, seem all alike; they assume that organization and life are directed and controlled by an Entity, or Power, " endowed with a faculty little short of intelligence," the tyv-xi) of Aristotle, the animating principle of Harvey, the organic force of Miiller, and the organic agent of Prout. What the mechanism may be by which this entity acts, they do not determine; but it is evidently such as bears no analogy to any known natural agency. Its existence is inde- pendent of the organism, for it has directed both the organising process and the living actions of the being. Whence then is it derived ? According to Miiller, from the parent, for it exists in the germ,—it derives its powers from the same source, and its pedigree may therefere be traced to the first created individual of each species of animal or plant. Are we to conclude, then, that organic agents generate organic agents, and transmit their powers to their offspring ? Or must we assume, that, for each newly generated animal or plant, a special organic agent is deputed " to control and direct" its organization, development, and growth? But many phenomena of the utmost importance to Hving beings, as already shown, are in their nature physical and chemical, and the laws under which they occur are well under- stood. The changes effected in the air and in the blood by respiration, the phenomena of absorption, and, in some degree, those of secretion, are the results of purely physical processes. It is in the highest degree probable that many of the actions of the neivous system are due to physical changes in the two kinds of nervous matter, substances of complex constitution and high equivalent number, and therefore prone to change. The generation of heat is due to the same chemical phenomenon as will give rise to it in the inorganic world; and electricity is also similarly developed within the body. How entirely de- pendent on physical changes are the senses of vision and hearing, and how completely are their organs adapted to the laws of light and sound.