298 FATTY MATTER IN THE BLOOD. dissecting the last elephant that died in the Jardin des Plantes, he happened to wound the jugular vein, and the next morning he found that the stream of blood, which flowed from the vein, had deposited on each side a considerably quantity of a free fatty matter, which on analysis he found to have exactly the compo- sition of ordinary fat. A similar fact may be often observed in the blood from slaughtered animals, which we find to be sometimes loaded with fat. From what source is this fatty material furnished to the blood ? Mainly, no doubt, from fatty matters introduced into the system in the food, whether animal or vegetable substances, but fat may be formed, and in considerable quantity, from nutrient materials which do not contain it. From many non-nitrogenized articles of diet, starch, gum, sugar, alcohol, beer, fat may be formed, and in large quantity, by the agency of the bio- plasm of the body. From the constituents of meat and other nitrogenous foods, fat may also be formed in the or- ganism. If the system be imperfectly supplied with oxygen, while organic compounds containing carbon are furnished to it in considerable quantity, the most favoiuable conditions will exist for the development of fat. On the other hand, exercise and labour, which increase the supply of oxygen, diminish or prevent the formation of fat. " The production of fat," says Liebig, " is always a consequence of a deficient supply of oxygen, for oxygen is absolutely indispensable for the dissipation of the excess of carbon in the food. This excess of carbon, deposited in the form of fat, is never seen in the Bedouin or in the Arab of the Desert, who exhibits with pride to the traveller his lean muscular sinewy limbs altogether free from fat; but in prisons and jails it appears as a puffiness in the inmates, fed, as they are, on. a poor and scanty diet; it appears in the sedentary females of oriental countries ; and, finally, it is produced under the well-known conditions of the fattening of domestic animals."* A good illustration of these views is afforded by the carni- vorous animals. In the wild state, living entirely on azotised food, and enjoying abundance of air and exercise, they are lean; but, when domesticated, living on a mixed diet, taking * Licbig's Organic Chemistry.