ICO FIBROUS STRUCTURE. lanes are stretched to five or ten times their diameter, or distended to the utmost with scarcely moving or temporarily stagnant blood. Indeed to such an extent may the process of distension and engorgement be carried that longitudinal rents or fissures may result. Through these red blood corpuscles even, as well as the minute portions of living matter found in the liquor sanguinis, fig. 44, plate V, page 124, may freely pass. When, however, the disteoding force is withdrawn, the capillary, by reason of its elasticity, returns to its former diameter, and resumes its ordi- nary appearance of delicate homogeneous membrane, without ah indication remaining of any rent or tear, or opening through which a very minute solid particle could make its way. Fibrous Structure.—Fibres may be drawn out, as it were, from a mass of germinal matter in one, or in two or more directions, I giving the mass of germinal matter an oval, spindle-shaped, or stellate form. TJrin structureless, expansions may be produced directly by germinal matter, or fibrous-like membranes may be formed, in which the fibres run parallel, or cross at various j angles, giving rise at last to a tissue of such extraordinary com- 1 plexity that it seems almost hopeless to endeavour to unravel it, 1 and impossible to find out how fibres, running hi so many different directions, were developed. By careful examination at different periods of the development of such a tissue, the observer will however, in some cases, be able to form as clear a conception concerning the manner in which the interlacing fibres were deposited, as he may gain of the mode of formation of a] complex spider's web, by careful examination at short intervals during its formation, without having witnessed the creature J actually at work. So delicate are the fibres in some tissues I that they can only be detected by resorting to artificial colour- I ing. Careful investigation leads us to think that in many cases I in which a tissue appears perfectly homogeneous and structure- less, it is really composed of excessively fine fibres, which can- not be clearly discerned by aid of the methods of investigation at our disposal. The peculiar characters and arrangement of some structures can be accounted for by the movements of the germinal matter during then- formation, and conversely we may learn much concerning the movements of germinal matter by a minute and careful investigation of the elementary arrange- ments of the tissue which has been formed by it. In the for- J