2 58 GLOBULES OF BONE TISSUE. dimensions. PI. XVIT, figs. 149, 150. It is not surprising that we should occasionally meet with indications of these in adult bone. Such appearances have been referred to by Dr. Sharpey, Gegenbauer, Allen Thomson, and others, but different explana- tions have been offered. Such globules, formed no doubt l»y the gradual coalescence of smaller ones, are sometimes traversed by canaliculi, and in dentine such globular masses are some- times so arranged as to interfere, during development, with the passage of nutrient juices to the matrix which lies between them. This, consequently, remains soft and uncalcified, and when the tooth is dried, spaces result between the several glo- bules. These spaces, of course, then contain air, and appear black when the dentine is examined by transmitted light. Dr. Sharpey states that he has found layers of rounded nodules, near the surface of the shaft of long bones, lying among the circumferential lamina?, and accepts the explanation of C. Loven, of Stockholm, who thinks that these botryoidal masses correspond to depressions made in a corresponding portion of bone by the process of excavation. In a cross section of a large serpent's rib, Dr. Sharpey noticed an outer and inner series of concentric lamella, which could be easily peeled from one another after decalcification.- The detached surfaces showed elevations and corresponding depressions. Many of the former contained one, two, or three lacunas in their substanoe. Whenever earthy salts are deposited in an organic matrix they tend to form these nodular aggregations and botryoidal masses, as was first shown by Mr. Rainey, who caused cal- careous salts to be deposited in gum, gelatine, and other trans- parent organic matters of the same kind. Whether bone tissue should be regarded as an organic matrix merely infiltrated with the earthy salts,—a mere admixture of the organic and earthy matter, or a true chemical combination of earthy and animal matters, is a question which still remains open to discussion. Of the Vessels of Bone.— We now proceed to inquire into the manner in which the distribution of blood to bone is pro- vided for. A texture undergoing constant change, containing much animal matter, and needing a constant supply of inor- ganic material, must necessarily be largely supplied with blood, the common source of the nutrient materials of all tissues.