283 GROWTH OP BONE. Growth of Bone. — But it must not be imagined, that when bone is once deposited in a certain form, it thenceforward per- manently maintains its original form and size. In the first place, a most important process of growth is continually going on in the cartilage, especially near the surface, by the multiplication of the cells ; and, in the latter situation, by the increase in their dimensions already described (page 276, pi. XIX, fig. 182). In the long bones this takes place chiefly in the longitudinal direc- tion which is that in which growth is most active ; and it con- tinues, till adult age. This fact has been long ascertained, though its real purpose appears to have been overlooked. Hales and Hunter both inserted metallic substances along the shaft of a growing bone, in a young animal, at a certain distance apart, and found, after an interval of time, that the distance between them remained the same, or nearly so, while the extremities of the bone were much further apart, thus proving that the principal growth had taken place near the extremities. Secondly, bones increase in dimension by an accession of new osseous substance on their exterior, this new substance consist- ing not merely of new laminae, but of new systems of laminae, and of new involutions of the vascular surface to form new Haversian canals, so that the earlier systems of laminae are covered over by the more recent ones, see fig. 187. But before the observations here recorded, were made, the fact had been proved by experiments with madder. It was ascer- tained accidentally by Belchier that the rubia tinctorum, or madder, mixed with the food of pigs, imparted its red colour to then bones, and this circumstance has been ingeniously taken advantage of by several physiologists in the prosecution of researches on the growth of bone.* Duhamel, Hunter, and * The colouring of bone by madder results from an affinity of the colouring principle for the phosphato of lime. This opinion was distinctly broached by Hallcr (El. Phys. t. viii. p. 329), and it was subsequently proved by Rutherford, who shewed it experimentally. To an infusion of madder in distilled water add calcic chloride : no change takes place. Then add sodic phosphate in solution. By double elective affinity calcic phosphate and sodic chloride are formed. The phos- phate is insoluble, and subsidos in union with the colouring matter as a crimson lake. When madder is given as food, its colouring principlo is absorbed, and cir- culates with the blood; and it colours first that part of the bone which is in course of formation from that fluid, or which has been last formed, i.e., which is nearest tlie vascular surface. U