YELLOW ELASTIC TISSUE. 197 fully developed in persons who have lived very carefully, or who have weak stomachs and are dyspeptic, and have therefore been compelled to be careful, at the age of fifty or sixty. Of Suppuration and Sloughing.—When the vitality of the nuclei of fibrous textures is destroyed, either from their not being supplied with nutrient matter, or in consequence of being bathed with fluid of an abnormal nature, the fibrous tissue becomes softened, and undergoes decomposition, and the dead portion is detached—in fact, sloughing takes place. If the germinal matter (nuclei, connective tissue corpuscles) be sup- plied with an increased quantity of nutrient matter, owing to the formed material, fibrous tissue, being rendered more per- meable or otherwise modified, there is at first a tendency to the formation of new elementary parts (germinal matter and connective tissue), but if the change once commenced increases, the germinal matter multiplies so rapidly that no formed material is produced.—Fig. 102, pi. XI., p. 190. There is not time for the formation of any fibrous tissue whatever—in truth, the process of suppuration becomes established. Those soft connective tissues which contain the greatest number of nuclei (masses of germinal matter), and are most freely supplied with blood- vessels, and receive a large proportion of nutrient matter, are most liable to suppuration. The process of suppuration is, on the other hand, often arrested by a living fibrous tissue, as tendon or fascia. This fibrous tissue, resisting the tendency of the pus corpuscles to grow at its expense, retains its vitality, while softer and more succulent textures are destroyed. YELLOW ELASTIC TISSUE.. Yellow elastic tissue differs from the white fibrous element in anatomical characters as well as in physical and chemical pro- perties. Of a yellowish colour, very flexible, generally com- posed of fibres varying much in diameter, it is eminently elastic, and it retains its elastic power after removal from the body. In man it exists in the fascicular, funicular, and membranous forms, and is often disposed in bundles of fibres covered by a thin sheath of areolar tissue, which likewise sinks in among its fibres. This tissue may be preserved for many years in preservative fluids without its important physical property