CHANGES IN BIOPLA.SM. 233 bear to it a similar relation. The formation of cartilage, tendon, or muscle depends—1, upon the vital powers of the germinal mutter which becomes converted into these tissues ; and it is influenced, by, 2, the conditions present while this conversion is occurring. These views were originally put forward in a paper " On the Formation of the so-called Intercellular Substance of Cartilage, and of its relation to the so-called Cells, with Obser- vations upon the Process of Ossification," published in the "Trans, of the Microscopical Society," No. XII., October, 18(33. Dming the very early stages of development, fibro-cartilage and spongy cartilage could scarcely be distinguished from ordinary permanent cartilage, but later the texture might be almost mistaken for young fibrous tissue. In fig. 133, pi. XV., page 230, a good specimen of fibro-cartilage from the interver- tebral discs of a foetal kitten is represented. The bundles of fibrous tissue are already distinctly marked, but nothing like firm cartilage-matrix is yet formed. This appears at a later date. Of the masses of germinal matter seen in the specimen, which are now exactly alike, some at a later period produce cartilage, while others continue to give rise to fibrous tissue. It has been already shown that cartilage and fibrous tissue are continuous with one another and that the homogenuous or slightly granular formed material of the cartilage shades gradually into the fibrous tissue of the tendon, fig. 129, pi. XV. Changes occurring in the Germinal Matter of fully formed Car- tilage.—The formation of matrix or tissue continues even in adult cartilage. Although the entire mass may undergo no alteration in size, new tissue is produced to compensate for the shrinking and condensation, which the tissue undergoes as it advances in age. Slowly indeed are these changes carried on, because the "matrix" is very slightly permeable to fluids. But the germinal matter still has the power to grow rapidly, and it will do so if the matrix become more permeable, or if the access of the pabulum to the germinal matter is facilitated by artificial means. As in other cases the rapidity of the growth of germinal matter simply depends upon the supply of pabulum. Let a thread be passed through a healthy cartilage, so as to make artifically a channel by which the pabulum may reach the masses of germinal matter more quickly, and the operation will be very soon followed by the increase in size and division of the