THE DEATH OF GERMINAL MATTER. 105 produced by the cell, but this is only one of the many circum- stances influencing the result. The products resulting from the changes of germinal matter seem to be almost infinitely varied, and those substances which exactly correspond in different animals do not exhibit the same composition. Even in the case of animals very closely allied zoologically, great differences are noticed. The bile, blood, milk, fat, &c, exhibit great difference in composition, although they possess many characters in common, and perform the same offices in the different animals respectively. There appears to be a resem- blance generically, associated with striking specific differences. The germinal or living matter of all living beings, vegetable as well as animal, contains nitrogen, and the broad difference between the changes in the animal and vegetable kingdoms seems to be that in the first a large proportion of the nitrogen entering into the composition of the germinal matter, enters into combination with other elements in the resulting formed substance; while in the latter, as a rule, the nitrogen although necessaiy to the germinal matter, does not enter into combina- tion, so that while the animal requires a large quantity of nitrogen in its food to supply that which has been converted into various chemical compounds formed by the germinal matter, the plant needs but a veiy small proportion, because so little enters into the composition of the formed material pro- duced. The tissues of fungi, however, contain a considerable proportion of nitrogen. Certain saline or inorganic substances form constant and veiy important constituents of the animal body. Although it is possible that vital changes may continue to go on in the ab- sence of saline substances, it is certain that the tissues, upon the integrity of which the duration of life depends, could not be produced or nourished without them. Chloride of sodium is one of the most important. This salt is always present in large proportion in all embryonic tissues, and it is probable that it is intimately concerned in some of the active changes taking place in the germinal matter itself. Whenever germinal matter is growing and multiplying very rapidly in the human organism, chloride of sodium is present, and it is probable that in the lower organisms and plants, other saline substances are of equal importance in corresponding processes.