16 ORIGIN. REPRODUCTION. SPONTANEOUS GENERATION. wise, forms a considerable portion of their excreted matter, and serves to hold ha solution salts, and secondary organic com- pounds, which result from the waste of the tissues. In tins way, also, urea, uric acid, and biliary matters are excreted. In plants, water is excreted from the leaves, a phenomenon which has been compared to the perspiration of animals; and various other excretions, which are sometimes made to serve an additional purpose in the economy of the vegetable, besides that of getting rid of superfluous matter, are doubtless formed by the secondary combinations of the effete particles of their textures. These two processes, excretion, or the expulsion of effete particles, and assimilation of substances from without, are neces- sarily mutually dependent. The work performed depends upon the destruction of particles whose place must be occupied by new ones, for were excretion alone to go on, the destruction of the organism must speedily ensue, by the gradual waste of the tissues; and as long as new matter is being appropriated, old particles must be thrown off, otherwise growth would be un- limited. In both processes new combinations are taking place, as it were, in opposite directions; in the one from the simple to the complex to form organized parts, in the other, from the complex constituents of the textures to the simple organic, or inorganic compounds. Origin. Reproduction.—Organized bodies are always derived from similar ones. Some have supposed that out of decaying vegetable or animal matter mhiute animals or plants of other kinds may be formed: but it is most probable that in those cases in which they had been supposed to be formed, the seeds or eggs, or even the new beings themselves, had been con- cealed in the decaying matter, or conveyed to it from the surrounding atmosphere. Neither vegetation nor the develop- ment of animalculEe will go on in fluids which have been sub- jected to such processes as must inevitably kill whatever germs may have been diffused around or throughout them. Every year new facts are discovered which add to the overwhelming evidence in favour of the Harveian maxim, " Omne vivum ex ovo," using here the word ovum in the wide sense of a germinal element derived from a parent. The progress of Anatomical knowledge is every day revealing to us the mode of generation