188 TENDON. different directions. On placing a very thin piece of the fibrous tissue under a high power of the microscope, we observe Avhat may be considered the characteristic feature of this texture. The piece under examination, fig. 97, pi. XI., seems to be composed of a leash, of exceedingly delicate fibrillaj, running parallel to one another, and if not stretched, disposed to take a wavy course, like a skein of silk. But, on more accurate inspec- tion, it is found impossible to distinguish tlireads of a deter- minate size; these Beem, indeed, to be of various sizes according to the degree of splitting to which the whole has been submitted, and many are to be seen so very minute as at first almost to elude the eye. In other parts the mass splits up into membra- nous rather than filiform fragments; so that it would appear incorrect to describe this tissue as a bundle of threads. It is rathe* a mass with longitudinal parallel streaks (many of which are creasings), and which has a tendency to slit up almost ad infinitum in the longitudinal direction. Tbe correctness of this view is further shown by the action of acetic acid, which obliterates, for the most part, all appearance of fibrillaa, and causes it to swell up as an entire mass. But the ordinary fibril- lated structure reappears if the acid be carefully neutralized. Tendon is generally subjected to examination after having been dried, or partially dried, and then remoistened with fluid, but it has been found that these processes cannot be carried out without some considerable alteration in the characters of the tissue being produced. With the exception of fig. 97, in which the germinal matter is not shown, the specimens represented in plate XI have been prepared without any desiccation at all. They have been soaked in carmine solution, and after- wards mounted hi glycerine, according to the method already described in page 60. If a thin longitudinal section of tendon be examined, numerous narrow elongated bodies connected together by narrower lines, and arranged parallel to each other, and nearly equidistant, will be observed throughout the fibrous substance of the tendon. These are the " nucleated fibres of the tendon," or the parallel nucleated fibres, the kern-fasern of the German writers.—Figs. 98 to 102, pi. XL The parallel, wavy, and delicately fibrillated matter between them is the white fibroiis tissue of the tendon, the so-caUed matrix or intercellular substance, which is considered to be formed independently of, and