83 STAKOH AND FAT CELLS. As the starch-holding cells increase in size, the starch granules become enlarged by deposition of layer after layer upon their external surface. They still lie embedded in the germinal matter, and are separated from the cell-wall by it. This outer portion of the germinal matter is known as the "primordial utricle" of the vegetable cell, see fig. 30. That the formation of the starch granules is a process closely allied to the produc- tion of the cell-wall seems proved by the circumstance that in some of the cells no starch is found in the interior, but the wall of the cell is greatly thickened by the deposition of a closely allied, but not identical material upon its internal surface, layer within layer, as represented in figs. 31 and 32. The fat cell, or adipose vesicle, is formed in precisely the same way, and fat may be deposited amongst the germinal matter of other cells, such as the cartilage cell, and in nerve and other elementary parts in certain cases. The formation of fat in a fat cell, at different stages of development, is repre- f sented in plate III, fig. 33, a, b, c. Of Stellate Cells.—It has often been said that a cell sends or - shoots out branches or processes at different parts of its circum- : ference, and thus becomes star-shaped. The processes of stel- j late cells are, however, never formed by any such process of . growing or shooting "outwards" from the body of the cell. They are not as it were out-growths, which proceed from one cell and i meet those protruded from neighbouring cells, but the processes are drawn out as the masses originally close together become - separated, in the manner already referred to in page 75, and i represented diagrammatically in plate I, figs. 9 to 12. These diagrams are not, however, strictly true, for figs. 11 and 12 1 would really extend over a much larger space than in the drawing, for each of the numerous masses of germinal matter i in figs. 7, 8, 11 and 12, corresponds to the larger masses seen in figs. 5, 6, 9, and 10. The large pigment cells of the frog and other batrachia, and those forming the outer layer I of the choroidal coat of the eye (lamina fusca), are good examples i\ of stellate cells. The former will be found in chap. Ill, the Ji latter in plate III, fig. 34. Upon the surface of the fang of the tooth, in contact with ■lithe cementum or crusta petrosa, is a tissue of a very interesting J'l structure, which takes part in the formation of the cementum. G 2