OSSIFICATION OF MEMBRANE. 280 which exists in a small quantity in every part of the medulla. Thus is formed that vascular membrane which lines every part of the inner surface of the bones, known as the medullary membrane, from which offsets pass and ramify amongst the medulla, and line all the cancelli of the cancellated structure of the extremity of the bones. The bioplasts remaining be- tween the vessels, and in the reticular formed by the arrange- ment of the medullary membrane, undergo further change. Some increase in size and form soft fatty matter, which con- tinues to accumulate until an ordinary fat vesicle results, the development of which is described in page 300. Others grow and multiply, forming little collections varying much in shape and size, which have been already described as myeloid cells, fig. 185, pi. XIX. The term " cell" is however inappropriate, seeing that they are destitute of anything like a cell-wall, while many are much elongated, and form plates, processes, spicules, or branching threads. These undergo change, and a matrix is developed, in which calcareous matter is at length deposited, and the walls of cancelli and bony spicules result. Lastly, some of the bioplasts which originally occupied the medullary cavity of the bone die, and disappear altogether. Of Ossification as it proceeds in the fibrous membrane of the Cranial Bones.—As the changes which result in the development of permanent bone beneath the periosteum, after the removal of the temporary bone, exactly accord with those which occur when fibrous tissue is converted into bone primarily, it Avill be well to describe this latter process in the first instance. The bones of man, not represented at an early stage of development by temporary cartilage, which hi its turn is con- verted into a soft spongy form of bone, are the flat extended portions of the cranial bones ; for instance, the parietal, frontal, and the expanded portion of the temporal and occipital. The only bones and parts of bones of the cranium existing originally as cartilage, are the base of the occipital, the sphenoid, except the external pterygoid plate, the mastoid and petrous portions of the temporal, the ethmoid, the inferior turbinated bones, the ossicles of the ear, and the hyoid bone. The flat bones at first appear to be composed of a form of tissue closely allied to fibrous tissue. This membranous struc- ture grows at the edges, just as the cartilage increases at the