146 SALINE AND FATTY MATTERS. of the lacteal gland and does not exist in the blood. If carte sugar or grape sugar be injected into the blood of animals while suckling then- young, these forms of sugar do not find their way into the milk, but milk sugar is formed as usual; while, if this latter substance be injected into the blood of an animal, it becomes converted into grape sugar, and is excreted as such in the urine. The saline matters present in milk, consist of alkaline chlorides and phosphates, with potash and soda in combination with the casein, and phosphates of lime and magnesia, which are dis- solved in company with this substance. The proportion of the different constituents of milk varies much under different cir- cumstances and in certain acute diseases. Fatty matters,—are to be obtained in greater or less proportion from almost all the fluids and solids of the animal body. They exist in three different states in animal bodies—1, dissolved; 2, in the form of minute granules, as in the chyle; and 3, in quantity, forming large or small globules. PI. I, figs. 1 and 2. The production of fatty matter from germinal matter has been already alluded to (p. 103), and minute examination of the elementary parts of the various tissues seems to show that fatty matters may be formed under certain circumstances from any of them. It may be regarded as certain, that a perfectly trans- parent albuminous material may give rise to the formation of fat; it is well known that fatty acids are found among the pro- ducts of decomposition of albuminous substances. Not only may germinal matter, which at one time was perfectly clear and transparent, develop oil globules, but fatty matter may be seen to appear in perfectly transparent and structureless germinal matter after it has been removed from the body. Careful micro- scopical observation will convince any one that the fatty matter of ordinary adipose tissue results from changes occurring in its germinal matter. PI. Ill, fig.' 33a, b, c. While, when the fat already formed is to be re-absorbed, it is probable that it ift again taken up by the germinal matter, and its elements trans- ferred to the germinal matter of the blood. In the case of adipose tissue which undergoes absorption rapidly, as the fat bodies of the abdominal cavity of the frog and newt, the masses of germinal matter of the fat vesicles and of the capillaries are large, and those of the latter numerous.