93 THE CELL IN DISEASE. different structures produced by germinal matter at different periods of development may depend upon the different sur- rounding conditions present when the changes occur. This, however, is no explanation at all, for the surrounding con- ditions present, as well as the circumstances concerned in their production, are themselves complex. They are not simple external conditions, but are in part the result of external circumstances, and in part of a previous state of things in the establisliment of which pre-existing vital powers associated with germinal matter played no unimportant part. Extending our inquiries still further back, we must at length discuss how the first formed material itself was produced, and it has been shown that this is due to the death of living matter under certain conditions, which is itself a highly complex phenomenon, and cannot be explained without supposing certain internal forces capable of causing the elements of the matter to arrange themselves in a certain definite manner, totally different to that in which the ordinary forces of matter would cause these elements to be arranged,—and certain influences operating from without (surrounding external conditions) tending to prevent the supposed internal forces from exerting then sway. The compo- sition, structure, and properties of the matter produced must, in fact, be referred to the influence of very different and antago- nistic forces acting upon matter from opposite directions. Of the Changes in the Cell in Disease.—It has been shown that of the different constituents of the fully formed cell, the ger- minal matter is alone concerned in all active change. This is in fact the only portion of the cell which lives, while at an early period of development, the parts of the cell usually regarded as necessary to cell existence are altogether absent. The " cell" at this period is but a mass of living germinal matter, and in cei*tain parts of the body at all periods of life are masses of germinal matter, destitute of any cell-wall, and exactly resembling those of which at an early period the embryo is entirely composed. White blood and lymph corpuscles, chyle corpuscles, many of the corpuscles in the spleen, thymus and thyroid, corpuscles in the solitary glands, in the villi, some of those upon the surface of mucous membranes, and minute cor- puscles in many other localities, consist of living germinal matter. There is no structure through which these soft living