149 SUBSTANCES IN MUSCLE. tonin, or muscle fibrin. The contractile material is associated I with a small quantity of delicate passive texture, moistened with fluid holding several different substances in solution. Syntonin, from avvrovos, contains in 100 parts, C 54-06, H 7 "28, N 16-05, 0 21-5, S I'll. It resembles fibrin in many of its pro- perties, but unlike this substance it is insoluble in a 6 per cent, solution of nitrate of potash. Kiihne has obtained syntonin in a fluid state from striped muscle, and considers that this is its condition as long as contractility lasts, but that stiffening of muscle after death, or rigor mortis, is due to the coagulation of this substance. It dissolves readily in water containing 1 0\Q of hydrochloric acid. When the acid solution is neutralised the syntonin forms a jelly. Soon after death a free acid is formed in the juice of the muscular tissue, probably from changes in the syntonin. Du Bois Raymond showed that no j'free acid was to be detected in the muscles in a state of rest. Indeed, as long as the muscle retains the property of con- tractility it appears not to exhibit an acid reaction, but after it [has lost this property, acid is rapidly developed. The amount | }f acid to be obtained from the juice of muscles after death is L remarkable, and Liebig has calculated that the voluntary ([nuseles alone contain more than sufficient to destroy the [ ilkalinity of the blood (Lehmann). The colour of the muscular tissue of animals with red flesh | s an organic colouring matter. It is probably allied to hasmatin, Kind the intensity of the colour is increased by oxygen. Among the chemical substances obtained from muscle, and >robably resulting from ^disintegration consequent upon action, Ire the following: Kreatine, Inosite, and Phosphoric, Lactic, ytutyric, and Inosic acids. Kreatine (C4H9N302, H20) is a crystallisable substance, ex- iting in the proportion, according to Gregory, of about five Tains in one pound of flesh. The muscles of birds, probably \ rom their much greater activity, contain about three times as [| mch kreatine as those of fishes. Kreatinine (C4H7N30) is also H'.rund in the juice of muscle. Inosite (C6Hi206, 2 H20), or muscle sugar, is soluble in alcohol, .' om which it may be obtained in crystals resembling those of i iypsum. According to Scherer it is isomeric in its anhydrous I .ate with anhydrous grape sugar. This substance hitherto.