VESSELS OF TENDON. 194 which the expansion of the tissue takes place equally in all directions, or equally in length, breadth, and depth, and the masses of germinal matter do not become detached, the tissue will consist of a matrix in which stellate masses of germinal matter are embedded. The radiating processes gradually become finer and finer as the tissue advances in age, until at last they quite disappear or leave narrow lines of imperfectly formed tissue which differs in chemical characters from that external to it, and resists the action of acetic acid like yellow elastic tissue. In tissues which are fundamentally composed of white fibrous tissue the most different appearances may be produced, according to the directions in which the structure expands, the rapidity of its growth, and the influence of stretching or pressure. In the various forms of fibrous tissue in the human organism, wide clifferences are observed, but in some of the corresponding tissues of the lower animals the differences are so great, that if only then anatomical characters in the fully developed state were studied, one would hardly suppose they were fibrous tissue at all. Vessels.—White fibrous tissue when fuliy formed probably undergoes little change. It contains few vessels, but is never- theless moi'e vascular than is generally supposed. The majority of the capillaries of tendon under ordinary circumstances only transmit liquor sanguinis, with a very few blood corpuscles, and many appear as mere solid threads, and under ordinary circumstances no blood passes through them. If, however, the tissue becomes inflamed, the blood-vessels are obvious enough, and the tissue in this condition would be regarded as highly vascular. The alteration, however, is due, not to the rapid development of new vessels, but only to the passage of blood through many which before transmitted none. While tendon is undergoing development, it is highly vascular, indeed the vessels appear to be as numerous as they are in many other tissues. As development advances, many being no longer required, shrivel, and as has been already explained, delicate lines of elastic tissue remain in the situations in which they once ramified. Many forms of fibrous tissue are almost destitute of vessels in the adult state, undergo scarcely any change, and require for their nutrition a very small quantity of nutrient pabulum.