5 UNORGANIZED BODIES. All organisms are composed of and are capable of producing peculiar organic matters of complex composition, and often endowed with peculiar properties. By proximate analysis several different organic compounds may be obtained from every organism. By ultimate analysis these organic compounds may be resolved into simple elemen- tary substances, such as constitute other objects of the universe. The various bodies that compose the mineral kingdom, have not the same complex composition, nor do they exhibit that distinctness and variety of structure in their component parts, which is so characteristic of at least the higher organisms, nor is there any adaptation of then parts to separate functions. They never exhibit the wonderful properties characteristic of the living matter which exists in all organisms, but in these alone, and they are therefore called unorganized or inorganic. Chemical analysis resolves them into simple elements which admit of no further subdivision. Life, Death, and Dormant Vitality.—Organized bodies are found in two states or conditions. The one, that of life, is a state of action, and of change. The other, that of death, is one in which all vital action has ceased, and to which the disintegration and chemical decomposition of the organized body succeed as a natural consequence. But it cannot be said that any living body exists which at any one moment consists entirely of living matter. In every living organism, at every moment, so long as its life lasts, there is matter that lives and matter that has ceased to live. An organized body in a state of active life exhibits growth and nutrition, and resists the destructive influence of sur- rounding agents. Thus the development of structures is pro- moted, and the integrity of the body itself is preserved. The simplest thing growing, animal or vegetable, is an illustration of this remark. But there are organized bodies in which life is said to be dormant. If in these, actions or changes occur, they are so slight that they cannot be observed; nevertheless, if placed under certain favourable conditions, vital activity will soon become manifest in these organized bodies. Of this we have familiar examples in a seed, and in an egg. It is well known that seeds will retain then form, size, and other properties for a