OF ANATOMICAL DIFFERENCES. 41 guished from that concerned in the production of the lowest living structure. And yet how different are the results of the life of the two? This difference would be more readily accounted for upon the hypothesis of the existence of some marvellous original difference in the power of the different kinds of living matter, than by the action of the different external circumstances under which descendants from one and the same stock have passed, or upon the hypothesis of the inherent ten- dency to vary. Can we accept the conclusion, that there was no well-defined difference at an early period of the world's his- tory between the living forms then inhabiting the earth, until we have studied in detail the structure, mode of development, and complete life history of two existing species of simple organization, which are closely allied to one another ? As yet we have no history of the life of any living thing which at all approaches completeness. It should be stated that, according to the theory, as accepted by many, something which amounts to a special creation is admitted to have occurred in the case of the first living molecule. The argument is supposed to com- mence from this point. The anatomical differences between corresponding tissues of closely allied species are often so distinct that the anatomist familiar with them could distinguish one from the other. For example, it would be difficult to state in few words the differ- ences between the unstriped muscular fibres of the bladder of the hyla, of the common frog, and of the newt, and yet there is a recognizable difference, and corresponding differences can be demonstrated in other textures, if a comparison be carefully instituted. So also with regard to the chemical composition of the corresponding solid matters, fluids, secretions, &c, of closely allied animals, remarkable differences are observed as may be demonstrated by a careful examination of the blood, bile, or urine, for example. Such differences affecting the minute structure, and chemical composition, of every part of the organism of creatures closely allied, are strong arguments in favour of the doctrine of the independent origin of distinct species; for it is scarcely reasonable to assume that any diver- gence in a few particulars, from the general characters of the common original stock, should be accompanied by, or should necessarily involve, a change in all these points, unless such