CHAPTER V. OP CARTILAGE AND FIBRO-CARTILAGE. PHYSICAL CHABACTEES OP CARTILAGE. STRUCTURE. PERICHONDRIUM. TESSELS OF CARTI- LAGE. OP PIBRO-CARTILAGE. YELLOW ELASTIC OR SPONGY CAR- TILAGE. FOHMATION AND GROWTH OP CARTILAGE. DEVELOP- MENT. CHANGES IN THE GERMINAL MATTER OP CARTILAGE. Cartilage is extensively used in the animal frame, and is one of the simplest of the textures. In the development of the embryo, it is one of the first tissues to appear as a distinct structure, and it constitutes the internal skeleton in its earliest condition in the animal scale. The rudimentary skeleton of the cephalopoda consists of it; and in one class of fishes (hence termed cartilaginous, as the shark, ray, lamprey), the skeleton is entirely composed of cartilage. In man and the higher animals, cartilage is employed, tem- porarily, as a nidus for bone, in the early stages of life, and is then called temporary cartilage. This, at a certain period, begins to ossify, and finally disappears by being converted into bone. At one time, the greatest part, not the whole, of the skeleton is cartilaginous; and for a considerable period after birth the extre- mities of the long bones arc chiefly composed of cartilage, and the larger processes are connected to the shaft of the bone by this substance. For other purposes, however, a cartilage is employed which is not prone to ossify, viz., -permanent cartilage, aud this is used either in joints {articular cartilage), or in the walls of cavities (membraniform cartilage). The articular variety is either disposed as a thin layer between two articular surfaces, and equally adherent to both as in the synar thro dial joints (the cranial sutures, the sacro-iliac symphyses, &c.) ; or it forms an encrustation upon the articular ends of the bones entering into the composition of diarthrodial joints ; thus, the extremities of the fernur, tibia, the arm-bones, &c, are all coated with a layer of cartilage, moulded to the shape of the articular surfaces. The membraniform cartilages are not employed in connection with the locomotive mechanism, but serve to guard the orifices of canals or passages, or to form