10 OF THE STRUCTURE OF living matter, that their artificial production affords no safe grounds for supposing that the former complex substances will ever be manufactured in the laboratory, or that a living organism will some day be produced by the synthesis of inorganic elements as some have not hesitated to regard as possible when organic chemistry shall have advanced to a higher state of perfection. OF THE STRUCTURE AND SPECIAL CHARACTERS OF ORGANIZED BEINGS. The higher plants and animals are composed of parts often termed organs, distinct from each other hi structure and function. Entering into the formation of these organs are many different textures, each differing from the others in physical properties, in their mode of action, and in chemical composition. The existence of a great variety of textures in an animal implies a high degree of organization. In beings of a more simple character, low in the scale of organization, there is comparative uniformity of structure; though often a variety of parts or organs, and tissues having different properties, exist in the fully developed organism. But, in many cases, it has been observed, that from almost any one part of the body any other portion might be developed. Thus some species of Actinia, in slowly moving over the surface of a rock, detach small pieces of the margin of the disc. From each one of these detached portions a perfect actinia, with its tentacles, external covering, gastric membrane, glands, and muscular and nervous apparatus and generative organs, is developed. In the lowest and simplest organisms there is no indication of distinct parts or organs. The entire creature seems to con- sist only of a small mass of clear structureless material, which possesses in every part the power of moving in any direction, which absorbs nutrient matter, and grows and multiplies by por- tions being from time to time detached. There is a time when every organism, even the most com- plex, consists of such a simple mass of colourless, growing, moving, matter. Every organ, every tissue, is represented at an early period of its development by such a simple and apparently almost homogeneous mass of plastic materia]. Such structureless material exists also at every period of the life even of the most complex tissues. The physical property of