232 HAVERSIAN SYSTEMS. Fig. 187. given by the distinguished authors above named. The forma- tion of the matrix of the permanent bone' beneath the periosteum of the young animal takes place as has been already described in page 269, and it becomes calcified in the same manner, each little bioplast separating from its neighbours, while the for- mation of matrix proceeds upon its surface, and accumulates between the neighbouring bioplasts. When the formation of matrix is complete, cal- careous particles are deposited mid- way between adjacent bioplasts, which gradually become encroached upon, and are at length enclosed in the spaces or lacunas in the manner described in pages 248 to 254, and represented in the drawings, figs. 149, 150, and 151, pi. XVII, from the frog. The vessels beneath the perios- teum are at length enveloped as it were by folds of the bone-forming bioplasts, which gradually encroach upon them until the vessel is completely surrounded. It now occupies the centre of a cylinder of bioplasts, the growth of which proceeds until a layer of some thickness is formed. At the outermost part of the soft cylinder ossification commences, and proceeds lamina within lamina until the formation of the Haversian system is complete, fig. 187. New Haversian systems are formed circmnferentiaHy beyond them until the bone lias reached its permaneut diameter. The minute changes which occur have been carefully studied in well-prepared specimens taken from the growing scapula of the human foetus at the fifth month of intrauterine life, and ac- curate drawings have been made from two of these specimens. The appearances observed are represented in figs. 183 and 184, pi. XIX, under a magnifying power of three hundred diameters. The changes will be understood if the reader will attentively examine the illustrations, and a more correct idea of the process Avill be formed than would be afforded by a minute and neces- sarily tedious description of the changes which take place. Section from the diuphysis of tlie meta- tarsus of the calf, after Ktllliker To show tlie mode of development of permanent bone beneath tlie periosteum, as described by MesBrs. Tomes and De Morgan, a, perios- teum : b, tissue, undergoing ossification ; r, spicules of bone, which, as they grow gradually encompass a vessel which becomes the Haversian vessel^ <i, completely formed Haversian systems, x 45.