20 OF FORCE. In form, in size, in duration, the contrast between organized bodies and inorganic substances is most striking. The inor- ganic matters are aeriform, liquid, or solid: they are prone to assume the crystalline form, and to exhibit surfaces bounded by right hues, and uniting to form angles. No distinction of parts, or organs, is to be found in the mineral substance; its minutest fragment is in every respect of the same nature with the largest mass. A portion of sand not weighing a grain contains particles of the same form and size as those of the largest sand-banks known. Inorganic substances, as compared with organic, are unlimited in size and duration. Their bulk is indefinite and they retain the same condition for ages, without augmentation or waste, provided no external agent be brought to act upon them. None of those internal actions or processes, which have been described in the organized body, occur in the unorganised one; there is no inherent motion, no power of reproducing lost or injured parts, no growth, no excre- tion, no conversion, no formation of substances which did not exist before, no generation. From age to age the mineral re- mains unchanged, obedient only to the common laws of matter, and unable to modify then- operation by any inherent power. OF FORCE. Correlation of Forces.—Force, which is constantly associated with matter in all its states, is as indestructible as the matter itself. The state or condition of the matter may be changed, but matter cannot be generated or annihilated. In like manner the form or mode of force may be altered in such a way that one form of force, as motion, may be converted into another, as heat, electricity, chemical affinity, and the like, and either of the latter may be made to resume the form of simple energy or motion. It is probable that all the physical forces are mutually convertible, but it is certain that force cannot be produced anew or annihilated. Gravitation, Elasticity, Cohesion, Adhesion, Heat, Electricity, Magnetism, Light, Chemical action, are dhTerent forms or modes of one and the same force. The labours of Helmholtz, Grove, Mayer, and others, have proved conclusively the mutual relation, or '' correlation" of the physical forces. Just as very dhTerent quan- tities of dhTerent kinds of matter represent, or are equivalent to