84 OF STELLATE CELLS. It is composed entirely of branching cells, and is a most perfect example of a tissue consisting entirely of cells, the cavities of which, up to a certain period of development, communicate with one another by tubes. The stellate cells are here as distinct as they are in the pith of a rush. These cells and tubes do not, however, constitute an elaborate system of channels for the distribution of nutrient material to the tissue which intervenes between them, as Virchow and his school maintain. The struc- ture is represented in plate III, fig. 35. But perhaps the most remarkable instance of the formation of fibres by the gradual separation of cells from one another occurs in the central organs of the nervous system. The fibres are structurally continuotis with the body of the cell, and become drawn out as it were, as the cells, originally continuous, become separated further and further from each other. At an early period of development the caudate cells in the cord and brain of man and animals, are represented by small and perfectly spherical cells, which lie close to one another. The small tpiantity of formed material between them is so transparent that no structure can be discerned in it. As yet it exhibits no indications of fibres. It is, however, very probable that fibres exist even at this early period, but their transparency and delicacy of structure render them invisible. As development advances, the masses of germinal matter become separated from one another, while at the same time they increase in size, and the fibres, which, with the outer part of the cell, con- stitute the formed material, become more and more drawn out in every part of then- course, until they are so very thin as not to be recognizable without the use of very high magnifying powers, and a special method of preparation. The numerous interlacing nerve fibres, of which the matter inter- vening between the cells of the adult brain and spinal cord is almost entirely composed, are thus formed. See fig. 36, plate III. Of Spherical and Oval Nerve Cells.—A cell of highly complex structure connected with the sympathetic of the frog, is repre- sented in plate IV, fig. 40, but the manner in which this is produced will probably be understood if the principles already advanced have been carefully considered. This " cell " exhibits two fibres proceeding from it, one being coiled spirally round the other. At an early period of development it consists only