EPITHELIAL TISSUE. 161 iiiation of the elastic cartilage of the epiglottis, and some other textures, it seems probable that each mass of germinal matter revolves while it forms delicate fibres, which accumulate, and at length appear to be arranged concentrically round the space in which it lies. The fibres, in this case, seem to be formed some- what in the manner in which the caterpillar spins its cocoon, except that in the case of the tissue, the process is inteirupted, while the last is a continuous operation. The attachment of the germinal matter to some of these fibres may be distinctly seen in the particular texture referred to, pi. XV, fig. 130. In connection with the ganglion cells of the sympathetic of the frog, one of us (L. S. B.) has described a very remarkable spiral arrangement of the nerve fibres, which can be readily explained by supposing movements of the germinal matter, while we believe in no other manner can the facts be satisfactorily accounted for. So also by the careful study of the arrangement of the twisting of nerve I fibres hi many tissues, we become convinced of the never- ceasing movement of the masses of germinal matter, not only during the formation and development of the fibres, but after- ■ wards, during the adult period of life. In this way only can ' the highly intricate structural arrangements, familiar to us in many organs of man and the higher animals, be explained. Changes, however, take place in many kinds of tissue after ' the formative act has been completed. In some cases the part which was first produced dries up, and gives rise to irre- . gularities or cracks, which appear as peculiar mai'kings, and may be characteristic of the fully formed structure. Sometimes i a tissue, which for a long time appears homogeneous and clear, .gradually acquires a fibrous appearance from the tendency of the old tissue to split, or cleave in certain directions, which will in fact be found to correspond to the lines in which new tissue was deposited at an early period of formation. Epithelial Tissue.—One of the simplest forms of tissue found ' in man and animals, and perhaps that which is produced most easily and most quickly, is cuticular epithelium. Possessing elasticity, and considerable extensile property, performing the passive office of protecting more important textures beneath it, iupon which it rests, and with which it is often connected, this tissue is readily replaced, if removed, and when injured is 1 quickly and effectually repaired. Epithelial tissues exhibit.