OF PUTREFACTION. 19 This decomposition is usually accompanied by fermentation or putrefaction. It used to be supposed that these were purely chemical changes, due to what was considered catalytic action, but it is now known that in both processes living organisms play a most essential part. The process of fermentation is dependent upon the growth and multiplication of vegetable organisms, and it is probable that the carbonic acid and alcohol so characteristic of one kind of fermentation result from the death of living particles under the conditions present. In the process of putrefaction, the researches of Pasteur have shown that so far from oxygen being necessary to the life of the simple living beings concerned, there are certain forms of infusoria which not only pass their lives without oxygen, but are killed by its presence. All experiments have proved that the germs from which these organisms are developed gain entrance from without. The size and transparency of some of these particles are such that they are only just visible by an exceedingly good power which magnifies upwards of 5,000 diameters.* It is certain that germs exist far more minute than these. They may even exist in the interior of the higher organisms. We know they are present in great number on the surfaces of mucous membranes, and even in the interior of glands. It is pro- bable that such germs exist in the blood, and woidd multiply rapidly if the state of the fluid once became favourable. Nor are cases wanting in which the decomposition of tissues, and of the blood, and the multiplication of such low forms of life, have occurred in the living body itself,—the change of course being soon followed by death. The matter, however, which is the seat of this change is dead. The life of the tissue does not become the life of the infusoria, as some have maintained, but the tissue becomes disintegrated, and the infusoria, derived from infusoria that Jived before them, live upon the products, just as other organisms may live upon the matters resulting from the death of the infusoria. Living matter never lives upon living matter by the life of one organism being converted into the life of anothei', as some have speculated. Living matter must itself die ere it can pass as food to form part of any living organism. * How to work with tho Microscope, 3rd edit., p. 217. 0 2