299 DEVELOPMENT. little exercise, and being imperfectly supplied Avith oxygen, they grow fat. In animals that hybernate, fat is deposited in enormous quantity just prior to the hybernating period, and during that time it gradually disappears, supplying nutriment to the sys- tem, and carbon for the respiratory process. These facts were clearly ascertained in hedgehogs by the celebrated Dr. Jenner. It is generally admitted that the disintegration of fat is attended with the development of heat, the oxygen uniting with the carbon, an amount of heat is generated proportionate to the quantity of carbonic acid formed. But it may be fairly questioned whether the high temperature of the body can be thus explained, seeing that in many conditions in which the temperature rises many degrees within a very short period of time, the oxidising process is completely at fault, and the quantity of oxygen consumed is far less than in health. Although ordinarily much fatty matter is concerned mdirectly in the changes which take part in the development of animal heat, the large amount of fat existing in every form of nerve tissue clearly shows that the action of the nervous system so essential to the maintenance of life is in some way dependent upon the due supply of a sufficient quantity of nutrient mate- rial containing the elements from which fat may be formed. Lastly, fat being a bad conductor of heat, is useful for re- taining it in the bodies of animals. Those animals that have little hah on their skins, and are at the same time exposed to the influence of extreme cold, have a great quantity of sub- cutaneous fat. This is remarkably the case in the whale tribe, most of which have a thick layer of adipose tissue (blubber) between the smooth bare skin and the muscle beneath. In man, the subcutaneous fat, which is so generally met with, even in apparently lean subjects, is doubtless a most valuable protec- tion against the cooling effects of arctic cold. The Development of Adipose Tissue.—The process of forma- tion of adipose tissue may be studied in the embryo of any vertebrate animal. Long before fat is actually produced, the embryonic matter (bioplasm) which is to take part in its formation can be distinguished from that which is to give rise to other textures. But the several stages through which adipose tissue passes in its development may be as clearly