116 WHITE BLOOD CORPUSCLES. by solution of tannin and by many metallic Baits. White or colourless blood corpuscles, fibrin and albumen, which are in- cluded in the class of proximate principles (see p. 8), and water, are important constituents of the blood at every period of its existence. The white blood corpuscles, or masses of living germinal matter of the blood, are the direct descendants of the germinal matter of the cells which took part in the first development of vessels. The white blood corpuscle in fact corresponds to the germinal matter in the interior of a ' cell.' There can be little doubt that, at least in those instances in which the nutrient fluid contains no red corpuscles, these colourless corpuscles are the agents concerned in the production of the albumen and fibrin, and there is every reason to believe that the red blood corpuscles, specially characteristic of the blood of vertebrate animals, are formed from these bodies. It has been already stated that all forms of living germinal matter yield a spontaneously coagulable substance closely allied to the fibrin of the blood, though perhaps not identical with it, and a soluble albuminous material which is precipitated by heat and nitric acid. It is probable that the pabulum required for the nutrition of the higher tissues is prepared and formed through the agency of germinal matter of less special endowments, such as that found in connection with the capillary vessels; and that the free germinal matter in the blood, representing that in the interior of the fully formed cell, itself in its turn grows at the expense of materials formed from other kinds of germiual matter, especially that in connection with the intestinal mucous membrane. Albumen is so called from the white colour it possesses in its solid coagulated state; 'white' of egg is largely composed of it. Besides forming more than 30 per cent, of the solid matter of the blood, albumen, more or less modified, enters into the com- position of many of the tissues of the body. It exists in two states; fluid—being dissolved in the serum of the blood, and in some of the secretions; and solid—forming a large propor- tion of certain of the tissues; for example, y^- of the dry cere- bral substance, which are for this reason called albuminous tissues. These are, the brain, spinal cord and nerves. It also enters into the composition of the muscles, and traces