HARVEY'S THEORY OF LIFE. 25 the Deity himself, and, by this supposition, they heave screened themselves against the accusation of attributing to a creature the powers of the Creator. A little examination of this doctrine will shew that it has no pretensions to the title of a theory. Aristotle attributed the organization of animals and vege- tables, and the vital actions exhibited by them, to a series of animating principles (^ru^ai), differing according to the nature of the organized bodies constructed by them, and acting under the direction of the Supreme animating principle (<f>vais ). He supposed that each particular kind of organized body had its proper animating principle or 1^1^77, and that the variety of the former really depended upon certain original differences in the nature of the latter, so that every distinct species of animating principle would necessarily have its appropriate species of body. Harvey, likewise, assumes the existence of an animating principle, by which every organism is moulded into shape, out of materials furnished by the parent, and which, pervading the substance, regulates the various functions of its corporeal resi- dence. But, at a subsequent stage of his inquiries, in assigning the blood as the special seat of this principle, he advances another supposition totally at variance with his previous hypo- thesis ; namely, that as, during the development of the chick in ovo, the blood is formed and is moved, before any vessel, or any organ of motion exists, so in it and from it originate, not only motion and pulsation, but animal temperature, the vital spirit, and even the principle of life itself. So completely biassed were the views of this illustrious man, by his exaggerated notions respecting the nature and properties of the blood! Nor are many writers, in our own days, free from such vague notions. One who endeavours to introduce a new vital philo- sophy talks about the brain cells being the highest parasites (!) which live upon the life of the blood. And very many persons speak of the blood as distributing " life" to the tissues, as if life were something that could be caused to circulate in solution in a fluid, and be separated from it, and absorbed by this or that tissue! The celebrated John Hunter, who does not appear to have been acquainted wi+k the views expressed by Harvey, revived