281 FORMATION OF PERMANENT BONE. Fig. 1! Ossification in fibrous membrane. From the parietal bone of the fcetuB at the eighth month. Human subject, x 15. The edges of the cranial bones of the frog. Thus the gradual increase in the size of the flat cranial bones is provided for, fig. 177. The deposition of the calcare- ous particles in the matrix between the masses of bioplasm, their gradual encroachment upon these, and the formation of the canaliculi and lacunas have been fully discussed ; nor do the changes which oc- cur during the develop- ment of these bones differ in their nature from those which may be observed in the process of ossification, as it occurs in some of the fibrOUS tisSUeS in Old a£.'e gradual extension of the bone tissue into the fibrous membrane ' ' & ' is well seen towards the rieht of the drawing. The mode of qj, jjl Certain morbid f°rmat'on °' cancelli, and their transition towards Haversian systems is well seen in the drawing. growths. The process of formation of lacunae may indeed be more easily investigated as it proceeds during the ossification of the fibrous walls of certain cysts, than in normal bone. Of the production of secondary or -permanent bone.—While the changes already described, which result in the removal of the temporary bone are proceeding, bone development of a different kind is slowly progressing beneath the periosteum, where a thin cylinder of osseous tissue, the future shaft or diaphysis of the long bone is formed. This grows in thickness by the . development of new bone upon the outer surface in the manner discovered by Duhameh and described in page 284. The minute changes which take place in the development of the permanent bone beneath the periosteum were first described by Messrs. Tomes and De Morgan in then well- known memoir.* As there are several points of detail which the writer of this chapter has since succeeded in determining, a short account of the processes as observed by him will be given. In the main, this will be found to accord with the description * Philosophical Transactions, 1853, vol. i., p. 109.