266 PERIOSTEAL AND MEDULLARY LAYERS. In a Longtitudinal section of the compact tissue of a long bone the appearance of lamellation (fig. 173) is generally less evident, except where a longtitudinal canal happens to lie exactly in the plane of section. This lamellated arrangement appears to be due to the circumstance that the osseous tissue is formed hi successive layers, a process which was first satis- factorily described by Messrs. Tomes and De Morgan hi their memoir already referred to (Phil. Trans, 1853). The description now given of the intimate texture of the compact tissue of long and short bones will apply, in all essen- tial respects, to every other example of the compact tissue ; the chief difference consisting in the direction taken by the Haver- sian canals, which is irregular where the tissue follows an irre- gular course. In general, however, the canals, with the Haversian rods forming their sheaths, run in the direction in which the tissue needs the greatest strength. Thus, in the long bones it is vertical; and in those flat bones, which have to support weight, it is also more or less vertical; while in those designed to sustain the action of forces of other kinds it is liable to corresponding variety. So beautifully mechanical is this disposition of the Haver- sian systems in the compact tissue, that we need not smile at the descriptions of Gagliardi, who, with imperfect means of observation, appe ars to have been at least faithful in his attempts to delineate nature. The periosteal and medullary layers are true plates of bone, and the Haversian systems are true fibres or pins, all connected with one another by direct continuity of tissue, and most artfully arranged for the mechanical ends in view; and we cannot sufficiently admire the skill which has caused the means, employed for these ends, to conspire with those which were indispensable for the due nutrition of the tissue. In the ordinary cancellated texture, each cancellus must be regarded as a little medullary cavity, containing, as it does, medulla and highly vascular medullary membrane. The plates of bone which form its walls consist of lamellae, among which lacunas, with their pores, are scattered; and they sometimes, when thick, contain Haversian canals. Usually, however, the pores of these laminae communicate directly with the cavity of the cancellus to which they belong.