88 OF THE GERMINAL OR LIVING live. Lastly, facts and arguments have been advanced which show that all matter in the last or formed state was once in the first or living state, so that the properties it has acquired, and the characters it possesses as formed matter, depend upon the changes which were brought about while the matter existed in the germinal or living state. One mass of living germinal matter may divide into several, and thus cell-multiplication occurs. In all cases the multiplica- tion of the cell is due not to a growing in of the wall or formed material, but entirely to changes in the germinal matter. In many masses of germinal matter a smaller spherical mass, often appearing a mere point, is observed, and in many cases this divides before the division of the parent mass takes place. This, however, is not necessaiy to the process, for it takes place in cases in which no such bodies are to be seen, and it frequently happens that one or more of these smaller spots or spherical masses may appear in its substance, after a portion of germinal matter has been detached from the parent mass. These are to be regarded as new centres composed of living matter. Within these a second series is sometimes produced. The first have been called nuclei, and those within them nucleoli. Marvellous powers have been attributed to nuclei and nucleoli, and by many they are supposed to be the agents alone concerned in the process of multiplication and reproduction. These nuclei and nucleoli are always more intensely coloured with alkaline colouring matters than other parts of the living or germinal matter, a fact which is alone sufficient to show the difference between' a true nucleolus or new centre and an oil globule, which has often been wrongly termed a nucleolus. According to the view of cell- structure here advanced, nuclei and nucleoli are but new living centres appearing in ■pre-existing centres, and they may be sup- posed to mark the commencement of another series of changes in the matter in winch they appeared, differing, perhaps, in some minor particulars from the first changes which occurred. Sometimes a very defined line shows precisely the limit of the two orders of changes. Although nuclei and nucleoli are germinal or living matter, both are not undergoing conversion into formed material. The vital powers of nuclei are often not manifested at all, but under certain conditions the nucleus may increase, and exhibit all the phenomena of ordinary