ON THE PREPARATION OF TISSUES 6G for several years, so that in many cases the very preparations from which my drawings have been made, have been preserved. Method ofpreparing specimens of Bone and Teeth and other hard tissues.—By the methods generally employed for demonstrating the structure of bone, teeth, and other hard tissues, we are enabled to form a notion of the dead and dried tissue only. The soft material is dried up before the section is made. And yet this very soft material, which is not represented in the drawings published in different works, is that which makes the only difference between the dried bone or tooth in our cabinets and that which still remains an integral part of the living body. So far from this soft matter being unimportant, it is the most important of all the structures of the hard texture. It is by this alone that all osseous and dental tissues are formed and nourished, and from the arrangement of this soft matter not having been recognized the most erroneous ideas have prevailed, and still prevail, upon the formation and nutrition of the osseous and dental tissues. Even now it is generally believed that the dentinal tubes are real tubular passages for conveying fluids to all parts of the dentine, and are thus subser- vient to its " nutrition," and yet it is more than eight years since Mr. Tomes proved most conclusively that these so-called " tubes " were occupied in the recent state by a moist but tolerably firm material ("Phil. Trans.," Feb., 1856). I have verified Mr. Tomes' description, and am quite certain that the so-called dentinal tubes are not channels for the mere flowing up and down of nutrient fluid.* Suppose a tooth is to be prepared for minute microscopical investigation, we may proceed as follows. The same plan is applicable to bone and shell. 1. As soon as possible after extraction, the tooth may be broken by a hammer into fragments, so as to expose clean surfaces of the tissues. Pieces of dentine with portions of pulp still adhering to them may then be selected and immersed in the carmine fluid, and placed in a vessel lightly covered with paper, so as to exclude the dust. The whole may be left in a warm room for from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. 2. The carmine solution may then be poured off, and a little plain dilute glycerine added, as already described in the case of soft tissues. 3. After the fragments of teeth have remained in this fluid for five or six hours, the excess, now coloured with the carmine, may be poured off, and replaced by a little strong glycerine and acetic acid. 4. After having remained in this fluid for three or four days, it will be found that the portions of soft pulp have regained the volume they occupied when fresh. They have swollen out again even in the strongest glycerine. 5. I have found that in many cases, when it is desired to study the arrange- ment of the nerves, it is necessary to harden the pulp by immersion in glyce- rine solution, made by adding to an ounce of the glycerine solution of acetic acid two or three drops of a strong solution of chromic acid. The fragments may remain in this solution for three or four days, and then be transferred to the acetic acid solution, in which they may be preserved for years with all the soft parts perfect. * On tlie structure of recent bone and teeth, see my lectures on " The structure and growth of the tissues." Delivered at tho Royal College of Physicians, 1860.