HAVERSIAN SPACES. 267 Haversian Spaces.—Not only does the compact tissue of bone gradually pass into cancellated structure, as described on p. 261, but comparatively large spaces, like cancelli, are to be demonstrated in the compact tissue of a long bone. These are the Haversian spaces of Messrs. Tomes and De Morgan, who have proved most conclusively that, during the life of the bone, the ca7ials become larger, and are converted into spaces by erosion, the removal of the bone tissue taking place in a direc- tion from within, outwards. In adjacent spaces the opposite processes may be going on at the same time. The formation of bone takes place from without inwards. An Haversian space therefore gradually contracts to form a canal. The Haversian canals and spaces are seen in a section of dry bone as openings, but in the recent bone they are occupied by a vessel which is surrounded by soft pulpy matter, consisting of a little connec- tive tissue near the vessel, but composed mainly of small living bioplasts. These bodies are also found on the deep layer of the periosteum and medullary membrane, as has been described. They exist in considerable number wherever bone is being formed, and are, in fact, the active agents concerned in the removal of the old bone tissue, and in the formation of the new osseous lamellae. Now, the process of erosion or removal of an Haversian system does not take place quite regularly, for part of an Haversian system may be left while neighbouring systems may be entirely removed. When the formation of the new Haver- sian system commences in the space scooped out, it is obvious that new lamina? will be deposited over those which originally belonged to the old system. This is why "interstitial laminae" are always seen between the Haversian systems in a section of the compact tissue of bone, and we are indebted to Messrs. Tomes and De Morgan for their very clear and satisfactory ex- planation of this most important fact. When bone is removed by absorption, as in the excavation of Haversian spaces, the surface is sometimes irregularly exca- vated, so as to give rise to a number of small pits or depres- sions which, after a time, are filled up by the deposition of new bone. If this latter be removed it will be found to form as it were a cast, and appears nodulated or covered with botryoidal masses of bone tissue. This fact has been referred to by T