301 OF ADIPOSE TISSUE. connective tissue or fat. The "capillaries themselves multiply- as the adipose vesicles grow, and the vascular network increases as in other situations, by the extension of bioplasts in a loop- like form from the capillaries already existing. The changes taking place in the development of an indi- vidual adipose vesicle will be understood if figs. 196, 198, pi. XX be referred to. At first all that is to be discerned is a small oval or spherical mass of bioplasm or living matter, perfectly naked, that is, entirely destitute of a cell wall. This little bioplast usually exhibits one or more new centres of growth (nuclei) embedded in it. The formation of the fatty matter occurs in this way:—in the very substance of the bioplasm, but always outside and away from the new centre or nucleus, a little oil globule makes its appearance. It results from changes in the living matter itself. A portion of this bioplasm dies, and among the substances resulting from its death are fatty matter, which being insoluble, remains, and soluble substances which are carried away in the blood. Starch globules and other secondary deposits formed in the interior of elementary parts are produced in the same manner by the death of the bioplasm. The fatty matter does not come from the blood as fat, and deposit itself in the cell, nor is it formed by the collec- tion and aggregation of excessively minute granules, which traverse the vascular walls suspended in serum; nor is it pre- cipitated from the nutrient fluid after the manner of crystals. But it invariably results from the transformation of living matter, and different kinds of living matter, as is well known, will pro- duce different kinds of fat. The properties and composition of fat in different animals differ, because the powers of the bio- plasm or living matter of each animal are so different. The bioplasm of the fat-cell does not dimmish in proportion exactly as the oil increases, because the conversion of pabulum into bioplasm proceeds as fast as the conversion of the latter into formed material takes place, as has been already explained in page 79. In 1861 one of us showed the relation of the oil or fat to the included nucleus or mass of living germinal matter or bioplasm, and pointed out that the fat of the fat cell and the starch of the starch cell were formed by the bioplasm itself. Nevertheless many who have written since have affirmed that