29 VITAL STIMULI. requires for its development the reciprocal action of different lands of matter, and it is abundantly evolved in various changes talcing place in living beings as the necessary result of the action of well known chemical laws. If, therefore, organi- zation and vital operations were due to electricity, this agent would at once he formed by, and govern and direct the formation of, each organism. On the whole, we may conclude, then, that the theory which attributes the phenomena occurring in living organisms to the action of physical and chemical forces alone, rests upon no secure foundation, and is indeed controverted by important facts, and that the opposite doctrine, which supposes the exist- ence of a materia vitce, or of a subtile organic agent, possessing powers little short of reason, is equally untenable. We have seen that the phenomena usually termed vital really comprise two distinct classes of actions—actions purely physical and chemical, and actions purely vital. The truly vital actions which have been alluded to can only be accounted for by attributing them to the influence of some peculiar power totally distinct in its nature from any form of ordinary force. This is not a power which exists as it were in a concentrated state in the germ, and gradually expends itself as the tissues are evolved, or as the development of the race proceeds, but it is a power which is temporarily associated with, and influences for a brief period of time, every particle of matter which becomes hving. It is a power which may be transmitted infinitely through the infinite multiplication of Hving matter without any increase or diminution in its intensity. As soon as tissue or any of the peculiar compounds result from the changes occurring in this Hving matter, its wonderful vital powers have ceased for ever. Of the so-called vital stimuli. Many suppose that organized bodies being acted upon by certain vital stimuli develop vital actions. Thus heat is supposed to be the vital stimulus which excites the changes resulting in the development of the chick, light is supposed to excite or stimulate certain changes going on in the vegetable organism, nay, Hfeless inorganic matter is regarded as an excitant to increased vital action in certain cases. A particle of sand faUing upon the conjunctiva is followed by increased action as shown by the more rapid growth