75 OR ELEMENTARY PART. stance deposited between them. But how different is the process in nature! At first there are no cells at all. There are but small masses of transparent living germinal matter separated from one another by a little soft formed matter. From this anatomically simple material the fully formed tissue results by gradual changes. New masses of germinal matter are produced by the division and multiplication of those existing before, in the manner represented in figs. 5 and 6. New formed material is formed froni these, and as they separate or move away from one another, it accumulates in the intervals between them. The relative proportion which the latter bears to the germinal matter gradually increases as the tissue advances towards its perfect state of development. See figs. 7 and 8. The changes go on in regular order uninterruptedly from the earliest period when thei-e was nothing but a little formless, structureless living matter, till the tissue or organ is formed, and its structure fully developed. It has been inferred by many writers, that in the formation of a fibre, elongated cells become joined together, and it has been supposed that in the production of a tube the walls of several cells coalesce, and thus the cavity of the resulting tube corresponds to the cavities of the original cells. In the forma- tion of such a tissue as muscle or nerve, it has been assumed that the outer or membranous sheath is formed by coalescence of cell icalls; while the proper material (contractile tissue, or neive fibre) is supposed to result from a modification occurring in the cell contents. When processes are seen to project from cells, it is said that they have been shot out or protruded from the cell; while, in a tissue composed of stellate cells, authorities have accounted for the arrangement by supposing that the tubular processes of contiguous cells grew away till they met one another, and that when they met they coalesced, so that the cavity of one cell became connected with the cavities of neighbouring cells by tubular communicating channels. And yet no one has even attempted to explain how it happens that the processes or tubes supposed to grow from contiguous cells invariably manage to hit one another exactly, to meet, join, and at last to coalesce, without hi any instance overlapping one another, or ever failing to meet in the exact line. But if we examine such a tissue at an early period of its development, we find that