20 hunter's theory of life. a somewhat similar hypothesis; and it is curious that the same fact should have so attracted the attention of hoth as to have given the first impulse to then speculations. This fact was, that a prolific egg will remain sweet in a warm atmosphere, while an unfecundated one will putrefy. The views of Hunter were received with very general favour by English physio- logists. Hunter ascribes the phenomena of life to a materia vita, diffused throughout the solids and the fluids of the body. This materia vita he considers to be " similar to the materials of the brain ;" he distinguishes it from the brain by the title " materia vita diffusa" while he calls that organ " materia vita coacervata" and supposes that it communicates with the former through the nerves, the chorda internuncia. And Mr. Abernethy, in commenting upon these views, explains Mr. Hunter's materia vita to be a subtile substance, of a quickly and powerfully mobile nature, which is superadded to organization and per- vades organized bodies; and this he regards as, at least, of a nature similar to electricity. Such doctrines need no comment. Muller advocated the presence of an " organic force" resident in the whole organism, on which the existence of each part was supposed to depend, and which had the property of gene- rating from organic matters the individual organs necessary to the whole. " This rational creative force is exerted in every animal strictly in accordance with what the nature of each requires; it exists already in the germ, and creates in it the essential parts of the future animal." An hypothesis, not dissimilar to the last mentioned, was advocated by Dr. Prout, and he supposed that a certain organic agent (or agents) exists, the intimate nature of which is un- known, but to which very extraordinary powers are ascribed. It is superior to those agents whose operations we witness in the inorganic world; it possesses the power of controlling and directing the operations of those inferior agents. " If," says Dr. Prout, " the existence of one such organic agent be admitted, the admission of the existence of others can scarcely be with- held ; for the existence of one only is quite inadequate to explain the infinite diversity among plants and animals." " In all cases it must be considered an ultimate principle, endowed by the Creator with a faculty little short of intelligence, by means of which