44 OP PLANTS AND ANIMALS. that the nitrogen absorbed in respiration contributes to their sustenance. Plants appropriate inorganic elementary matters for food, as carbon, carbonic acid, ammonia, &c. " Inorganic matter," says Liebig, " affords food to plants; and they, on the other hand, yield the means of subsistence to animals. The conditions necessary for animal and vegetable nutrition are essentially different. An animal requires for its development, and for the sustenance of its vital functions, a certain class of substances which can only be generated by organic beings possessed of life. Although many animals are entirely carni- vorous, yet then primary nutriment must be derived from plants; for the animals upon which they subsist receive then nourishment from vegetable matter. But plants find new nutritive material only in inorganic substances. Hence one great end of vegetable life is to generate matter adapted for the nutrition of animals out of inorganic substances which are not fitted for this purpose." The nutrient fluid, however formed, is distributed through- out the textures of the plant, or animal, by vital or physical forces, or by the junction of both; and the function, by which this is effected, is called Circulation. In plants, this function is very simple, and is performed without the agency of a pro- pelling organ, circulating through capillary vessels which exist in every part of the tissues of the plant. In some plants, the fluid is found to circulate, or rotate, within the interior of cells, as in Chara and Vallisneria, the fluid of one cell not communi- cating with that of the adjacent ones; or to pass up from the spongioles in an ascending current, and to descend in another set of vessels. In the greatest number of animals, a propel- ling organ, a heart, is the main instrument in the distribution of the blood. In animals, then, there is a true circulation; the fluid setting out from, and retm-ning to, the same place. In many simple animals and plants, however, there is no circula- tion at all in special vessels, but the tissues are nourished by imbibing the elements of nutrition from the medium in which they are immersed. The presence of atmospheric air is necessary to the existence of all organized beings. The air both passes by endosmose into their nutrient fluids, and receives from them certain deleterious gases developed in their interior. The function, by which the