148 MUSCLE. and turpentine. It contains both nitrogen and phosphorus, like Fremy's cerebric and oleophosphoric acids. It yields the reaction characteristic of the biliary acids, with Pettenkoi'i t'k test.* Beneke obtained the reaction with the alcoholic extracts of almost all the tissues. Cholesterin is a necessary com- ponent of all forms of myelin, and it seems to be rendered soluble by the other constituent of this substance; indeed, Beneke has shown that myelin is in fact a mechanical mixture of cholesterin and cliolate of lipyl. It would seem not improbable that, as Beneke suggests, the oxide of lipyl (the hypothetical body which yields glycerine on hydration) separated from the fatty acids by the action of the pancreatic juice, is presented in a nascent state to the biliary acids which then combine with it, forming a cholate of lipyl. This then becoming mechanically mixed with the cholesterin, myelin results. Myelin is repre- sented in plate VIIT, figs. 73, 74, and 78. Muscle.—The germinal matter of both striped and unstriped (voluntary and involuntary) muscle produces contractile mate- rial, which consists principally of a substance termed syn- * The following are Pettcnkofer's directions: Pour a portion of the suspected fluid into a test tubo'and add EnglisTi sulphuric acid, guttatim, to about § the volume of the fluid, whereby the temperature is considerably raised. The addition must be mado so gradually that the temperature shall at no time exceed 145° P., as otherwise the cholcic acid is too much changed ; then add 2—5 drops of ordinary cane sugar solution containing 1 part sugar to 4—5 parts of water, and shake the whole. If choleic acid be present, a more or less deep violet red colour will be produced according to the amount of bile in solution. Keukomm (ueber die Nachweisung der Gallensauren, &c, I860,) proposes the following modification: " A single drop of a per cent, solution of choleic or glycocholic acid will yield a splendid purple violet colour if it is brought in contact with a drop of dilute sulphuric acid (4 water, 1 sulphuric acid) and a trace of sugar solution in a porcelain cup, and then gently warmed over a spirit lamp; as 1 cubio centimetre equals about 8 drops, it is thus possible to demonstrate milligr. of biliary acid with complete accuracy." As a further test he suggests " the biliary acid or salt is to be sprinkled with a small quantity of concentrated Bulphuric acid moderately warmed and then water added. The resinous flocculi that subside are to be separated from the acid, washed with water, but not so as to remove all the sul- phuric acid, and then again gently heated in a porcelain cup till coloration ensues. If the residue be taken up in a Bmall quantity of alcohol, and the green solution be evaporated, the interior of the cup will be coated with a deep indigo blue film, even when but little acid has been used. If the biliary acids have been impure, or the sulphuric acid or the temperature react too long, the pigment film will be green. See the abstract of Beneke's Memoir " On the Occurrence, Diffusion, and Action of the constituents of the Bile in the Animal and Vegetable Organism," by Dr. DuffiDj Archives of Medicine, vol. iv, p. 192, 1865.