VESSELS OF BONE. 259 The blood-vessels of bone are very numerous, as may be sit isfaoti >rily seen on examining a well-injected specimen. The arteries of the compact tissue are in great part derived from those of the periosteum, and pass into the canals obliquely. If the periosteum be torn from the bone, these vessels can always be seen without difficulty. The vessels which penetrate the cancellated texture of the extremities of the long bones are very large, and their branches ramify freely among the cancelli. The vessels of the membrane of the medulla which is con- tained in the shaft, receive their blood from a special artery that pierces the compact tissue through a distinct canal, known as that for the nutritious artery. This vessel immediately divides on entering the medidlary canal; of the branches, one ascends, the other descends, and both break up into a capillary network, anastomising with the plexuses in the extremities of the bone, derived from the arteries that penetrate there. From the copious vascular network thus formed within the bone, the innermost part of the compact subs'tance of the shaft receives its blood-vessels. Haversian systems, and rods.—The arrangement of the vas- cular canals was discovered by Clop- ton Havers, who showed that these channels were pretty uniformly dis- tributed through the compact tissue, and inosculated everywhere with one another. In the long and short bones they follow the same general direction as the axis of the bone, and are joined at intervals by cross branches. The meshes thus formed are more or less oblong (fig. 166). The deeper ones open into the contiguous cancelli, with the cavities of which they are continuous. The arteries and veins of bone usually occupy distinct Haversian canals. ' Of these the venous are the larger, and com- monly present at irregular intervals, and d£r£™&TS; especially where two or more branches ^T^Z^^Ti^Z meet, are pouch-like dilatations (c, fig. ttouof,mo'her ™<»'™*- 166), calculated to serve as reservoirs for the Hood, and to delay its Fig. 166.