127 HiEMATIN. RffiMATOIDIN. solar spectrum. Hoppe was the first to demonstrate this inte- resting fact, and found that a very dilute solution of blood was sufficient for the purpose. The same bands were produced by the blood of different animals. Stokes proved that this colour- ing matter was capable of existing in two states of oxidation, ?md that a very different spectrum was produced according as the substance which he termed cruorine was in its more or less oxidised condition.* Protosulphate of iron,t or protochlo- ride of tin, causes the reduction of the colouring matter, and by exposure to air oxygen is reabsorbed, and the solution again exhibits the spectrum characteristic of the more oxidised state. In venous blood there is reason to believe that part of the Cruorine exists in its purple or less oxidised condition, and that this, in passing through the lungs, is reoxidised and converted into the scarlet cruorine, plate VII, figs. 62 to 65. The different substances obtained from the normal blood colouring matter produce different bands. Thus, Hcematin gives rise to a band in the red of the spectrum between the fines C and D. Hcemato-globulin produces two bands, the second twice the breadth of the first in the yellow portion of the spec- trum between the lines D and E. The absorption bands differ according to the strength of the solution employed, and the medium in which the blood salt is dissolved; \ but an exceed- ingly minute proportion dissolved in water is sufficient to bring out veiy distinct bands, and in his new spectroscope Mr. Sorby is able to obtain the band from a single blood corpuscle. § The most important chemical compounds obtained from the red blood corpuscles are the following :—Hcematin, Hosmatoidin, and Hcemin. Hcematin may be obtained from hcemato-globulin. It occurs in old extravasations of blood, and may be detected in the fasces. * « On the reduction and oxidation of the colouring matter of the blood," by G>. G. Stokes.—Proceed. E. S., 1864, vol. xiii, p. 355. t The solution is made as follows. To a solution of protosulphate of iron, enough tartaric acid is added to prevent precipitation by alkalies. A small quantity of this solution made slightly alkaline by ammonia, or carbonate of soda, is to be added to the weak solution of blood in water. t 0n tnif> subject the most recent observations will be found in F. Hoppe- Seyler's Handbook of Physiological and Pathological Chemistry. Hirchwald. Berlin, 1865. This work is a very valuable one. § " On the construction and use of the Spectrum Microscope," by H. C. Sorby, P.R.S.—Pop. Science Review, January, 1866.