143 SUGAR AND FAT IN MILK. The curd which is formed by heating milk in which a free acid existed, consists of a combination of casein with the acid. Heat alone will not effect the precipitation; but the addition of a little acid of any kind will occasion it. When dilute sul- phuric acid is added to skimmed milk a precipitate occurs which is sulphate of casein. By digesting the clot thus formed with water and carbonate of lime, the acid combines with the lime, and the casein, which is set free, though not in a pure state, dissolves in the water and maybe obtained by evapo- ration. It exists in the proportion of 3 to 4 per cent, in women's .milk and in cow's milk, and 2 per cent, in asses' milk. Casein is coagulated veiy perfectly by the action of rennet (the fourth or tine digesting stomach of the calf) aided by heat. This property of coagulating. casein is not to be attri- buted to the acid of the calf's stomach, but to the organic principle (pepsin) resident in it; for the power remains after all evidence of acid reaction has been removed. Rennet is one of the most powerful agents in causing the coagulation of casein, and it has been employed in domestic economy for the manufacture of cheese, which consists of the curd mixed with outter, compressed and dried. So perfect is its coagulating power that not a particle of casein in milk submitted to its iction, will remain uncoagulated. ein comports itself with reagents in a manner very iimilar to albumen. In the coagulated state, it is insoluble in water, but soluble in liquor potasses. It is not precipitated by leat alone, in which respect it differs from albumen. Casein, mlike albumen, is precipitated both by acetic and lactic acids. The fatty matters present in milk, amount to about 4 parts l 100. They occur in the form of separate globules, each of hich is protected by an envelope of casein, which prevents em from running together. Chevreul obtained from butter of w's milk, the glyceride of stearic, palmitic, oleic, capric, aprylic, caproic, and butyric acids, but it is doubtful if these dies exist in this state in the fresh secretion. Sugar of milk (C12H24012) is a crystallisable substance exist- g in the proportion of about 4 parts in 100 of milk. In romen's milk, the sugar varies from 3 to 6 per cent. In asses' ink it amounts to 4-5, and in mare's milk to 8-7 per cent. It is )rmed only in the secreting portion, and probably by the cells, L