122 COAGULATION OP THE fluid. The researches of Mr. A. H. Smee {Proceed. Royal Society, 1863, vol. xii. p. 399), have proved that if oxygen be passed through a solution of albumen, for thirty-six hours, at a tempera- ture varying between 95 and 100° Fah., the solution becomes of firmer consistence, and when examined microscopically, numerous lines indicative of fibres are seen. Mr. Smee infers that the substance thus produced is fibrin, and that it has been formed directly from the albumen by oxidation. He states that it cannot be distinguished from true fibrin by the microscope. But although the new material agrees in many of its characters with what we call fibrin, it is doubtful if it is identical with it. One very remarkable character of fibrin is to contract gradually after its formation, but Mr. Smee has not stated if his fibrin exhibits this property. While the fibrin-like material was being produced, carbonic acid was evolved and phosphoric acid was formed. By the oxidation of gluten, from wheat flour, Mr. Smee also obtained a substance which he could not distinguish from ordinary fibrin. He was unable to obtain fibrin by pass- ing oxygen through mine which contained a large quantity of albumen. The fact that the quantity of fibrin in blood is increased by oxidation, may be explained, as well by supposing that the oxygen acts upon the matter of the white blood corpuscles, as by inferring that albumen is oxidized; while its absence in certain cases of asphyxia, in hunted animals, and in sudden death by lightning, would be accounted for by the too sudden death of the white corpuscles ensuing in these cases, although it could hardly be attributed solely to deficient oxidation. We may now consider what may be actually observed under the microscope when fibrin passes from the fluid to the solid state. Observations with the aid of the very high powers and -5^) recently brought into use, have taught us many new and highly important facts which could not have been arrived at without then aid. If the phenomena of coagulation be carefully watched as it occurs under a power magnifying upwards of 2,000 diameters, the following points will be observed in favourable cases soon after the blood has been covered with the thin glass or mica. The first change noticed is, that a film-like appearance is developed in the liquor san- guinis, and this is especially observable in the wake of those