102 ENCIRCLING FIBRES. pressed, tho appearance of stellate celh and communicating tubes is most distinct, but that it depends upon an alteration produced in the germinal matter, and upon the displacement and tearing away of some of the young tissue connected with them is sufficiently proved,—by the appearance in question being produced by pressure, by its absence in parts of the specimen not subjected to pressure, by the great variation of the appearance when it is seen, and by its entire absence in certain specimens. The oval nuclei and intervening lines may be regarded as spaces and tubes in tendon some time after death, but in living tendon, and in tendon shortly after its removal from the dead body, the oval nuclei are composed of living geiwiinal matter which extends from one to the other in the form of a very narrow line. Some time after death this germinal matter becomes broken down, and there remain oval spaces and narrow tubes containing fluid and the products of disintegration of the germinal matter. Encircling Fibres.—Encircling the bundles of some forms of white fibrous tissue are to be seen, more especially after treat- ment by acetic acid, sharply defined fibres like those of yellow elastic tissue.—Fig. 104, pi. XII. It has been too hastily assumed that these elastic fibres are in connexion with the so-called nuclei and nuclear fibres (germinal matter) in the substance of the tissue. The existence of these fibres is undoubted, but they are not in sufficient number to be considered as essential con- stituents of the tissue, nor are they to be detected in all forms of white fibrous tissue. They wind round the bundles. By great patience we may occasionally succeed in finding a mass of germinal matter connected with some of these fibres, but when this is so, it is very small, and quite distinct from the masses amongst the white fibrous tissue. The delicate fibres of which the yellow elastic tissue is composed form a lax network on the surface of the bundles of white fibrous tissue. This is well seen in fig. 104, pi. XII. But what is the nature of these encircling fibres of yellow elastic tissue which do not penetrate into the substance of the fibrous bundles ? If the tendon of man, or any small animal be i examined while development is going on, the vessels of which • have been well and carefully injected according to the dfrec-