144 FORMATION OP MILK. other morbid changes, are associated with most important altera- tions in the character of the blood, and serious derangement in nutrition as well as in the actions of the tissues. It is, there- fore, almost certain that these bodies are intimately concerned in the changes taking place in the blood and in the tissues in health. It seems not improbable that the masses of living or germinal matter under consideration are concerned in the selection and distribution of materials to the tissues as well as in the removal of substances from them and then introduction into the blood. "When they project considerably into the interior of the vessel, the red blood corpuscles must, one after the other, come into contact with them, and probably part with some of the oxygen with which they are charged. This may combine with some of the elements just set free by changes in the living matter, and many of those chemical compounds which are obtained from the blood result. Under ordinary circum- stances these bodies may take up nutrient matter from the blood into which they project, while on the side directed towards the tissues, the germinal matter may become resolved into substances fitted for the nutrition of the various textures. Milk.—Some of the most important substances formed by the agency of special germinal matter from the fluid constituents of the blood are those which enter into the composition of milk. This secretion contains, without doubt, all the materials necessary for nutrition and tissue-formation—albuminous, sac- charine matters and earthy salts, dissolved; and fatty matters in a state of extremely minute subdivision, suspended in fluid. All these different classes of substances are undoubtedly formed by the secreting cells of the mammary gland, and the pabulum of those secreting cells must be derived from the blood. The arrangement of the vessels, the disposition of their nuclei, and their relation to the secreting cells, differ in no essential respect from what is observed in other secreting organs, and there can be little doubt that the material distributed to the cells of the lacteal gland is a simple serous fluid, the elements of wliich are rearranged by the geraiinal matter, and caused at last to combine to form the peculiar substances characteristic of milk. Casein.—This principle has many properties in common with albumen and fibrin. It is found abundantly in milk. Its occurrence in other fluids has not. been positively determined.