115 OF THE BLOOD. OF THE BLOOD. As the tissues and organs advance towards maturity, the blood becomes of vast importance, and it is not possible to discuss even cursorily the general chemical changes in the organism without referring to the composition of the blood and the phenomena which are taking place in it during every moment of existence. Although the chemical components of the blood and the blood corpuscles are more particularly con- sidered under circulation, it will be necessary to refer briefly to them in this place. Of the fluids of the body, the blood alone yields the various materials required for the formation of the tissues and organs, and for maintaining them in a state of integrity after their for- mation is complete; and, through its agency, all the substances resulting from the disintegration of textures which have already performed then work are carried to the different parts of the body at which then removal is effected. The blood must there- fore be considered as the medium, by which, at the same time, nutrient matters are carried to every tissue of the body, and products resulting from decay brought to the points at which they can be discharged. The consideration of the chemical changes taking place in the blood will comprise some of the most important chemical phenomena occurring in man and the higher animals during all, except the very earliest periods of • existence. The fluid which is concerned in distributing nutrient : matter to the tissues of the lower animals, like the blood of . man and the higher animals at an early period of development, is perfectly transparent and colourless. It contains some sphe- rical colourless granular masses of germinal matter, which, when at rest, exhibit vital movements. These are the most important and the only constant corpuscles of the blood. The fluid, or liquor sanguinis, in which these are suspended, besides ■ water, salts, and fatty matters, contains two very important ■ substances. Of these, one, the fibrin, coagulates spontaneously when the fluid is removed from the living organism and brought into contact with any foreign matter. The other, albumen, is dissolved in the water, but on the application of heat, or upon • the addition of a mineral acid, it passes into an insoluble condi- ' tion, forming a white clot or coagulum. It is also precipitated I 2