FIBRIN. 120 state of purity is that suggested by Joh. Miiller. This consists in adding to frog's blood a little syrup (one part of sugar to two hundred parts of water) which retards the process of coagulation for a sufficient time to enable us to filter it. The frog's red particles being too large to penneate the pores of the filter, the liquor sanguinis passes through in a colourless state, and its fibrin coagulates free from colouring matter. (Sometimes we obtain masses of fibrin, great part of which is colourless, from the cavities of the heart, and from the large arteries after death. It is also accumulated and disposed in a peculiar lamellar form, in the sacs of old aneurisms. Pure fibrin is white, tasteless and inodorous; it tears into thin laminaB. Under the microscope it is seen to consist of a, fibres crossing one another at every possible angle and inter- lacing in all directions; and b, very numerous white blood corpuscles. It is not yet possible to obtain the fibrinous material in a perfectly pure state and free from the corpuscles. It contracts for some time after its first precipitation, and retains remarkable elasticity, even after it has been for years immersed in preservative fluids. If fibrin be dried it becomes yellow, hard, and brittle, and loses three-fourths of its weight, but imbibes water again when moistened; it is insoluble in both hot and cold water, in alcohol, and in ether. By long- continued boiling in water its composition is changed, and it becomes resolved into a soluble and an insoluble substance, the first of which has been termed the teroxide and the second the binoxide of protein. Strong acetic acid converts it into a jelly-like mass which is sparingly soluble in water. A solution of nitrate of potash in the proportion of 1 part to 5 of water, readily dissolves fibrin. It is also to some extent soluble in solutions of some other alkaline salts. All the alkalies dissolve fibrin. Any of these solvents of fibrin will prevent the coagula- tion of blood which has been allowed to drop into it as it flows from the blood-vessels. Fibrin is dissolved by cold concen- trated hydrochloric acid, and if kept at a cool temperature for twenty-four hours, the solution acquires an indigo blue colour. Albumen similarly treated assumes a violet colour. Caustic potash, common salt, carbonate of potash and many neutral salts, when mixed in certain quantities with the blood, have the property of retarding or preventing the coagulation of its