74 OF THE CELL, 1 place. In short, we possess observations sufficiently complete, in some instances, to enable us to sketch, imperfectly it is time, the life history of the texture, and give an account of its development, the changes occurring in it during its fully- developed state, its gradual decay and removal, and the manner in which its place is occupied by new tissue. We can also trace in some instances the modifications occurring in these processes under certain altered and exceptional conditions which constitute disease. OF THE CELL, OE ELEMENTAEY PAET. Of the Cell.—The cell is even now considered by many to be a body consisting of certain essential definite and constant parts (cell wall, cell contents, and nucleus), to each of which a special office has been assigned by some writers. Some have supposed that living cells exert an influence upon matter which surrounds them, or even upon other living cells at a distance from them. Others maintain that very active powers of pro- ducing chemical and other changes reside in the nucleus alone. The power of producing change has been attributed in turn to the cell wall, to the matter within the cell, and to the inter- cellular substance. No well-ascertained facts have, however, yet been adduced in favour of the view, that any living structure whatever can influence matter at a distance from it, so as to alter its properties or composition, or in support of the notion that cell wall, cell contents, or intercellular substance possess any metabolic power whatever. The power of effecting changes in some mysterious or at least unexplained manner, has, however, been assumed to exist in the cell even by some of those observers who have most strongly advocated the phy- sical views of life. On the other hand, the wonderful changes ocexming in the development of tissues have been spoken of as if they could be very readily imitated artificially. The formation of a cell tissue has been compared to the formation of a wall in which ready- made bricks (cells) are supposed to be cemented together by ready-made mortar (intercellular substance). The formation of the tissue has been described as if the cells were first formed and then arranged in their places, and the intercellular sub-