214 CORD-LIKE FIBRES OF corpuscles or from white blood corpuscles only, but may be formed by any germinal matter which is very actively growing, and is the seat of increased nutrition. Cord-like Fibres of Connective Tissue.—There are certain cord- like fibres in different localities in which we are able to study the mode of production of certain appearances which are ob- served in connection with some specimens of fibrous tissue of the higher animals, pi. XIV., fig. 121. The peculiarity referred to is this, that elongated fibres of a structure resembling elastic tissue seem to be embedded in a mass of white fibrous tissue. Many of these elastic fibres are connected together, and here and there nuclei are found. Often two branches seem to diverge from a nucleus, and the fibres vary much in diameter. Fig. 104, pi. XII; fig. 122, pi. XIV. In several specimens of these cord-like fibres connected with the arteries, from the abdominal cavity of the frog, the following points maybe observed:—A bundle of nerve fibres is perhaps seen running in the external coat of an artery. Some of the fibres leave the large trunk of the nerve and run in the central part of a fibrous cord, which is continuous with the areolar coat of the artery. A portion of one of these cords with most distinct nerve fibres may be seen in one part of a specimen, and in another, a transition may be traced from most undoubted nerve fibres to the very narrow branching elastic- like fibres just alluded to (figs. 121, 122, pi. XIV). These fibres are-not altered by acetic acid, but by careful examination it is clearly proved that they may be split up into still finer fibres if they are not really composed of several delicate fibres collected together. They are not, therefore, merely fibres of yellow elastic tissue. Some of the finest of these cord-like fibres of connective tissue consist of a transparent matrix in which two or three nerve fibres are embedded. The transparent tissue has been considered to be the so-called tubular membrane of the nerve fibre, but the term is inappropriate, inasmuch as the structure is of considerable depth and is not membranous. In some cases, several ganglion cells which were once connected with nerves, have wasted, and their remains, with those of the nerves proceeding from them, may be detected in one of these cord- like fibres of connective tissue. It seems to us, therefore, that