AND FIBROUS TISSUE. 273 In man the temporary cartilages increase in bulk by an interstitial development of new cells until the full growth is attained. A few vessels, also, shoot into them at an early period, occupying small tortuous canals, which subsequently become obliterated. Ossification commences in the interior of the temporary cartilage at determinate points, hence called points or centres of Fig. 176. Human fetus, nboat the eighth or ninth week of intrauterine life, soaked in alcohol and soda, and preserved in glycerine, a, heart; b, stomach ; c, in- testine, not yet much longer than the hody. The branch below the letter is the remains of the om* phalo-mesentcric duct, d, lungs; e, supra- renal capsules ;/, kidneys; g, remains of Wolffian bodies, with ovaries and genital ducts. Points of ossifica- tion are observed in the humerus, radius, ulna, hist phalanges of the fingers, femur, tibia, and ribs. The ossification of the clavicle is advanced,but no ossific points are yet to be detected in the feet. Natural size. Fig. 177. Human foctusi about the eleventh or twelfth week. Ossific points are observed of considerable size. But one point exists in the os innomlnatum and two are seen in the scapula. The shading in the head and lace indicates the formation of bone. The ossification of the first and third phalanges of the fingers and metacarpal bones has advanced, but at present there is only one point of ossific deposit in the Up of the great toe and one for the middle toe. In both drawings the development of the anterior extremities is much more advanced than that of the legs. Soaked in soda and alcohol for a few days, and preserved in Bpirit. Not changed since 185S-4. Natural size. ossification. From these the process advances into the surround- ing substance. The period at which these ossific points appear varies much in the different bones, and in different parts of the same bone. The first is the clavicle, in which the primitive point appears during the fourth week: next is the lower jaw; the ribs, too, appear very early, and are completed early; next, the femur, humerus, tibia, and upper jaw. The vertebrae and pelvic