158 PHYSICAL PROPERTIES. In some instances the exact paths taken by the nutrient fluid as it flowed towards the living matter during life can be demonstrated in a tissue removed veiy soon after death. In the intervals between the converging lines which the fluid takes towards the centre of a cell, formed material has been deposited in such a manner as to give rise at last to a stellar arrangement of tubes which open into a central space oi-iginally occupied by germinal matter. —See fig. 28, plate III, p. 84. Tissue, there is reason to think, is so constructed in some cases as to allow certain fluids only to traverse it and to prevent the passage of others. And it may be formed in such a way that fluid will permeate it in one direction only, or the internal structure may be such as to allow special fluids to traverse it in one direction, and solutions of another character in the opposite. Hardness.—The property of hardness which is essential to certain textures is due either to the gradual desiccation of a soft protein formed material, or to the deposition in a soft matrix previously formed of mineral salts which undergo ajnodification and hardening in the tissue with which they sometimes seem to blend, if not to chemically combine, but the salts never assume in the substance of the tissue then ordinary crystalline forms. Hair and horn and nail are examples of tissues of the first class. Of such textures the external hard coriaceous covering of insects, and some Crustacea is as firm and hard and as serviceable for the firm attachment of muscles as bone itself. Bone which forms the basis of support for the soft parts in man and the higher animals, the dental tissues, the calcareous plates of the starfishes and echini, the external integument of some of the Crustacea, and the shells of many mollusca are tissues of ex- ceeding hardness in which this physical property is due to the impregnation of an organic matrix with hard calcareous salts. In some instances the firmness of the tissue is due to im- pregnation with silica, or some other mineral substance. Elasticity.—Every kind of tissue, whether soft or hard, possesses the property of elasticity, so that it will return to its original bulk soon after it is released from moderate compres- sion or stretching to which it may have been subjected. Some tissues are more remarkable for elasticity than others, but even the very softest and most fragile are elastic. This may be