FORMATION OF HAVERSIAN SYSTEMS. 278 which the shaft of the bone was first constituted, was solid. There is no cavity in the cartilage corresponding to the medul- lary cavity in the permanent bone. The temporary ossification therefore affects the whole thickness of the shaft. In the sub- sequent changes, not only is temporary bone removed, but that which occupied the central part of the shaft is never re- placed by bone at all. A permanent space is found which in most of the bones of birds is filled with air, but in those of other vertebrata is occupied with a form of adipose tissue, the marroiv, myeloii, of the bone. As the bone grows in circumference it is clear that all the spongy bone first formed must be removed by absorption, for the medullary cavity with its marrow oc- cupies the very spot where the temporary cartilage was first developed. The formation of Haversian systems and the exact position of the vessels is determined by the changes proceeding beneath the periosteum, which are figured in pi. XIX, figs. 183, 184, and in fig. 187, and which are described on page 282. The ger- minal matter or bioplasm of the original cartilage is instru- mental in effecting this change. The spaces or crypts of the soft brittle temporary bone were of course occupied by many of the cartilage bioplasts, pi. XIX; fig. 182. Soon after the spongy bone is produced, these, or at any rate many of the bioplasts situated in the central part, where the process of calcification commenced, increase in size and number, while at the same time the spicules of temporary bone are eroded and become reduced in thickness. They get soft, and in places actually undergo disintegration into granules. The originally smooth surfaces are now rough, and scooped out into little pits in consequence of the eroding action of the living growing bioplasts. These in fact live and grow at the expense of the spongy temporary bone, and at last a cavity is formed, which is occupied by mul- titudes of bioplasts, the descendants of those of the temporary cartilage; bounding this is a thin shell of temporary bone, which has been formed beneath the periosteum, and lastly, and most externally, is this membrane itself. We see then what becomes of the so-called nuclei of the original cartilage cells after the formation of the temporary bone in the foetal cartilage. That they remain active while the disintegration of the temporary bone is proceeding, has