24 OF LIFE. at once to the consideration of the phenomena as they occur in a fully developed animal, or more generally in man himself. As would be supposed, the utmost confusion has resulted. The terms physical and vital have been used indkcriminately, and, gradually, many seem to have convinced themselves that all the changes occurring in living beings are physical. It is not to be wondered at, that those who have taken up a view so obviously opposed to broad facts as this is, should have refrained from attempting to discuss in detail the changes which occur in a single cell; or that by some, the existence of the processes of formation, growth, and multiplication, as they take place in all living matter, has been almost ignored. These are truly vital phenomena, and occur in living beings only, but the development of heat, light, electricity, and the like, are physical phenomena, whether they occur in living organisms or in inanimate matter. Strange to say, the latter phenomena have been called vital when they occur in hviug beings, physical when they take place in the inanimate world; but, as they are essentially the same in all cases, it is obvious that the same terms should be applied to them. The living or germinal matter alone is the seat of vital actions, while in the lifeless formed material physical and chemical phenomena only are in operation. (See Figs, in Plates I to IV). Matter derives vital powers or properties in all instances from a previously existing organism. The vital part of the impregnated egg consists of living matter, which results from living matter belonging to the organisms of the beings that produced it. It manifests a life independent of that of its parents, and undergoes development if the requisite physical conditions are supplied. Thus is life in its mysterious associa- tion with matter transmitted from one living being to another; and the life of a present generation of animals and plants has its source in that of a previous generation. From a very early period in the history of natural science, there has been a tendency to ascribe these effects to an imagi- nary principle, or Entity, possessing powers and properties which (however men may try to impress themselves with a contrary notion) would entitle it to rank as an intelligent agent. It is true, that, according to most of the advocates of this doctrine, this power is supposed to be superintended and controlled by