15 ASSIMILATION. EXCRETION. which such wonderful powers are supposed to reside is simply matter in a colloid state, and it may be admitted that some of the phenomena which have been observed in connection with this matter result from or are determined by its mere physical constitution. But living matter does not possess the same properties or powers in eveiy part of its mass, and when magnified very highly, it is seen to be composed of spherical particles, varying somewhat in size. Colloidal matter, on the other hand, exhibits no such peculiarities, so that there is a great visible difference to be observed between this living matter and matter in a colloid state,—to say nothing of the changes occurring in the living matter, which distinguish it in the most marked manner from matter in every other known state. Professor Graham has shown that certain mineral substances exist in a colloid as well as crystalloid form. Hydrated silicic acid and soluble alumina are examples. Perhaps the most interesting example in the living organism of an organic body, winch may exist in both conditions, is the material of which the red blood corpuscle is composed, which sometimes, as in the case of the Guinea-pig, passes from the colloid to the crystalloid condition soon after it has been removed from the circulation and allowed to become stationary. Of Assimilation and Excretion.—Organized bodies can appro- priate and assimilate to their own textures other substances, whether inorganic or organic. This process is that which is most characteristic of living creatures: in virtue of it, animals and plants are continually adding to their textures new matter, by which they are nourished. Plants appropriate then nutri- ment from the inorganic kingdom, as well as from decaying organic matter; animals, chiefly from organic matters, whether animal or vegetable. Both possess the wonderful power of rearranging the constituents of these substances into forms identical with those of the elements of their various tissues—• and of thus making them part and parcel of themselves. Together with a process of supply, there is one of waste continually in operation. Animals and plants are ever throwing off effete particles from their organisms. These, under the name of excretions, appear in various forms—either as inorganic compounds, or as secondary organic products. Thus carbonic acid is given off in large quantities from animals; water, like-