FOR MICROSCOPICAL EXAMINATION. 65 the preparation looks pretty clear when examined with the twelfth, the glass cover may be cemented down with Bell's cement, and the specimen left for many days in a quiet place. It may then be re-examined, the process of washing with glycerine repeated, and further pressure applied until it is rendered as thin as is desired. When this point has been reached, more glycerine with acetic acid is to be added, and a plate of mica or the thinnest glass cover applied, when it may be examined with the twenty-fifth. The process of flattening may be pushed still further if desirable—and if only carried out very slowly by gentle taps or careful pressure with the finger and thumb from day to day, the elements of the tissues are gradually separated without being destroyed. If there be much connective tissue, which interferes with a clear view of the finest nerve or muscular fibres, it may be necessary to immerse the specimen for some days in the acetic acid syrup, and then transfer it to fresh glycerine. The success of this process depends upon the care and patience with which it is carried out. The most perfect results are obtained in cases where the washing, pressure, and warming have been very slowly con- ducted, and it is most interesting to notice the minute points of structure which are gradually rendered clearer by the application of a gentle heat, subjecting the specimen to a little firmer pressure or by soaking it in a little fresh glycerine placed in a watch-glass. Specimens of tissue prepared in this way can be transferred from slide to slide, and no matter how thin they may be, after having been allowed to soak in fresh glycerine they may always be laid out again perfectly flat upon another slide, by the aid of needles.* The action of these viscid fluids is most valuable, and I feel sure that by the process here given, retaining the principle, but modifying the details in special cases, many new and important anatomical facts will be discovered. Until this process is carried out successfully by other observers, I have little hope of my own observations being confirmed. Suppose the observer desires to study the papillae of the frog's tongue. Small pieces of the mucous membrane being removed by sharp scissors, they are transferred to glycerine, subjected to the same very gradually increased pressure, until the individual papillae are themselves slightly flattened. It is possible from a specimen to remove a number of the separate papillae on a needle point, transfer them to glycerine or to the acetic acid syrup, and then mount them for examination with the 5'jth object-glass. Allthe'pointslhave described and figured in my paper may then be demonstrated in several papillae. Thin sections of brain, spinal cord, <fec, may be subjected to the same process for examination with the highest powers. The tissues of man in health aud disease and various morbid growths may be prepared in precisely the saine manner. Even the vessels of a small portion of a solid organ, like the brain, liver, or kidney, or those of a small tumour, may be very readily injected. The escape of the injection from divided vessels may be prevented by tying them or by pressure, but considerable escape from the divided vessels does not preveut some of the capillaries being perfectly filled. The most delicate preparations retain their characters for many months, and some * I often mount these specimens upon a circle of thin glass about % of an inch in diameter, instead of upon a glass slide The circle is then placed in a wooden slide in the centre of whicli a holo has been drilled of the proper dimensions to receive it. It is fixed in its place by a ring of gummed paper. F