187 MEMBRANOUS FIBKOUS TISSUE. and very useful in protecting the walls of cavities. The ten- dons of the abdominal muscles afford good examples of this variety. The tendons are for the most part implanted by separate fascicles into distinct depressions in the bones, and are also closely incorporated with the periosteum ; so that in maceration, when the latter is separated, it becomes easy to remove the tendons. In some birds whose tendons are black, the peri- osteum is black also; and hi the human subject we may often see the tendinous fibres continued on the surface of the peri- osteum, as a shining silvery layer, following the primitive direction of the tendinous fibres, from which they were derived; a marked example of this may be seen on the sternum in front of which the tendinous fibres of the opposite pectoral muscles meet and decussate, and thus form the superficial layer of the periosteum covering that bone. The length of the tendons is beautifully adapted to the quantity of contractile fibre required to perform a certain movement; thus, in the biceps cubiti, were the whole length between the scapula and radius occupied by muscular fibre, there would be a great waste of that contractile tissue, as there would be much more than is wanted to produce the required motion; tendon is, therefore, made to- take the place of the superfluous muscle: in this way we may explain the differences in length of the tendons even in the same limb. C. Membranous.—In the form of an expanded membrane white fibrous tissue is used to cover, protect, and support various parts. Under such circumstances we often find that it not only forms an external covering to them, but that it sends in pro- cesses or septa, which separate certain subdivisions or smaller parts. Thus, the fascia lata of the thigh not only invests the muscles of the thigh, but sends in processes which pass down to the periosteum, and separate the several muscles from each other ; and the dura mater of the cranium sends in processes by which certain portions of the encephalon are separated from one another. Structure of Tendon.—When the areolar tissue has been dissected off, the surface of the fibrous tissue exhibits a beau- tiful silvery white aspect, and seems composed of bundles of fibres, which in some are arranged parallel to each other; in others are disposed on different planes and interlace or cross in 0