54 THE USE OF THE MICROSCOPE refer to anatomical analyses, effected by the microscope, of the utmost value to the knowledge of function. New means of preparing tissues, and the use of powers magnifying upwards of 1,000 diameters, have enabled us to investigate details with a precision and to an extent which not long since was con- sidered impossible. It may, however, be remarked, that, as the sources of fallacy are numerous even with the best instx-uments, more depends upon the observer himself, in this land of investi- gation, than in almost any other. The great impediment to deriving correct inferences from microscopical observations has arisen from the discordance, too apparent, in the narrations of different observers. This dis- cordance has been the result of a twofold cause; namely, imperfection of the instruments, and the very unequal qualifica- tions of different observers. The former cause is now almost completely removed; the latter must remain while men imper- fectly appreciate their own abilities for particular pursuits. Many observers have placed too much reliance upon minute and elaborate description of what they have seen, and have not been at the pains to give careful representations of the structure as it appeared to them. Others, although they have given drawings, have executed them very carelessly, and have omitted to draw them to a scale, so that they cannot be compared one with another, or with the drawings of other observers. Again, the system of one anatomist endeavouring to refute the statements of another by researches upon a different object, conducted upon a different principle, only serves to increase the confusion already existing, and to post- pone to a more distant period the definite settlement of most important elementary principles. If anatomical observers would select ike same organisms for study, and make their drawings as accurately as possible to a fixed scale, many of the ques- tions upon which they are now at issue would soon be de- termined. To make microscopical observation really beneficial to phy- siological science, it should be done by those who possess two requisites: an eye, which practice has rendered familiar with genuine appearances as contrasted with those produced by the various aberrations to which the rays of light are liable in then- passage through highly refracting media, and which can quickly