168 SIMPLE FIBROUS CONNECTIVE. demonstrated before any indications of the special tissue which is to be produced subsequently, can be found. And even in the fully formed perfect tissue the remains of this pi-imary and very simple texture may be discerned. When a wound in the substance of a tissue is repaired, fibrin is first formed from the outer part of the white blood corpuscles. The germinal matter embedded in the meshes of this newly formed web of temporary tissue then grows and multiplies, and at length masses are formed from which a firmer and more lasting fibrous tissue results. This is deposited in definite layers, and in a definite direction, while the old temporary fibrin having served its purpose is slowly absorbed. The changes referred to have been carefully studied in the fibrin deposited from the blood in the repair of a wounded artery. Some idea of the characters of the coagulum first formed, and the changes which take place in it afterwards may be gained by reference to figs. 82, 83, plate IX.* SIMPLE FIBROUS CONNECTIVE. This very delicate texture, the simplest of all the tissues, is very widely distributed in man and the higher animals. Indeed there is scarcely a part of the body in which traces of it cannot be discerned. From the circumstance of its existing between the moiv important structural elements of higher tissues, and connecting them to one another, as well as to other tissues, it has been termed connective tissue. It has been supposed that this texture was designed to give strength and support to more important tissues, but it must be obvious to any one who examines any of the organs in question, that the various struc- tural elements afford the most efficient support to one another, and are not in need of a special supporting frame-work of any kind. It is indeed veiy remarkable that such a view should have been entertained, as it is well known that at the time when the more elaborate tissue elements are softest, and there- fore most in need of support, that is at an early period of then development, scarcely a trace of this connective tissue is to be found, while on the other hand, when the textures have acquired considerable firmness, and possess resisting power of » " On the repair of Arteries and Veins after injury," by Henry Lee and Lionel S. Beale. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. Vol. L.