OF ANATOMICAL INVESTIGATION. 48 bound to refer them to a cause different from that to which we refer many of the phenomena of living bodies. Although asso- ciated with the body by some unknown connecting link, the mind works quite independently of it; and, on the other hand, a large proportion of the bodily acts are independent of the mind. The immortal soul of man, divince particula auras, is the seat of those thoughts and reasonings, hopes and fears, joys and sorrows, which, whether as springs of action or motions excited by passing events, must ever accompany him through the chequered scene in which he is destined to play his part during his earthly career. Although the animals, inferior to man, exhibit many mental acts in common with him, they are devoid of all power of abstract reasoning. " Why is it," says Dr. Alison, " that the monkeys, who have been observed to assemble about the fires which savages have made in the forests, and been gratified by the warmth, have never been seen to gather sticks and rekindle them when expiring? Not, certainly, because they are inca- pable of understanding that the fire which warmed them for- merly will do so again, but because they are incapable of abstracting and reflecting on that quality of wood, and that relation of wood to fires already existing, which must be com- prehended, in order that the action of renewing the fire may be suggested by what is properly called an effort of reason." Yet animals are guided by instinct to the performance of cer- tain acts which have reference to a determinate end: they con- struct various mechanical contrivances, and adopt measures of prudent foresight to provide for a season of want and difficulty. None of these acts could be effected by man without antecedent reasoning, experience, or instruction. But animals do them without previous assistance; and the young and inexperienced are as expert as those which have frequently repeated them. " An animal separated immediately after its birth from all com- munication with its kind, will yet perform every act peculiar to its species in the same manner, and with the same precision, as if it had regularly copied their example, and been instructed by their society. The animal is guided and governed by this prin- ciple alone, by this all its powers are limited, and to this all its actions are to be ultimately referred. An animal can discover nothing new; it can lose nothing old. The beaver constructs