HAVERSIAN CANALS. 2(54 face these irregular cavities, and their pores open into them. The Haversian surface, too, being an involution of the outer and inner surfaces, and serving to connect them has been said to be formed by an involution of the periosteal and medullary layers, and to unite these with one another. Where a vessel enters the compact tissue from the exterior, it carries with it a sheath of bone from the periosteal layer. The lacunse of this osseous sheath, instead of being turned outwards, like those of the periosteal layer, preserve then relation to the vascular surface to which they pertain, and face inioards towards the vessel. Wherever the vessel penetrates, whatever direction it takes, and however it branches, it is everywhere accompanied by this sheath from the periosteal layer, or by offsets from it; and, when it enters the medullary canal, its sheath expands into the medullary layer. As the vessels of the compact tissue take a longtitudinal direction, a transverse section of the bone (fig. 171) will appear pierced by numerous holes, which are the Haversian canals cut across. Each hole appears as the centre of a roundish area, which is the section of an involuted periosteal layer now become Fia. 171. Fig. 172. Transverse section of the compact tissue of a long bone; shewing, a, The periosteal Inyer; b, The medul- lary layer,and the intermediate Haver- sian systems of lamella?, each perfo- rated byan H. canal.—Magnified about 15 diameters. Part of the preparation represented in the last figure, more highly magnified; shewing the package of the Haversian systems, and also the light spaces between neighbouring ones. The system, a, appears to fill up an interval between the others. The lacuna* are seen facing the Haversian canals, and the pores taking a general radiating direction. At«, an irregular lacuna. a vertical rod, containing a vessel in its axis. The Haversian canals vary considerably in size, and do not maintain a very close relation to the thickness of their respective osseous walls.