TO MEDICINE. 53 action of the sympathetic nerve upon the blood-vessels has already thrown great light upon the nature of numerous patho- logical changes, especially those complex phenomena which constitute what in the higher animals and man are termed con- gestion and inflammation. The recent researches upon the arrangement of, and course taken by, the nerves in the central organs conducted by Stilling, Lockhart Clarke, and others, are likely to lead to most important conclusions with reference to the actions of the brain and cord. The accurate diagnosis of diseases of the heart rests entirely upon a correct knowledge of the physiology of that organ. This improvement in medicine may be said to date from the time of Harvey, for he was the first who clearly expounded the mechanism of the central organ of the circulation. But the application of auscultation to the exploration of the sounds developed in its action, and the correct interpretation of those sounds in health by the experiments and observations of the last few years, have almost completely removed whatever diflSculties stood in the way of the detection of cardiac maladies. We are not less indebted to the illustrious Englishman who discovered the circulation of the blood, for having paved the way to a rational treatment of anemismal and wounded arteries by the modem operation of placing a ligature between the heart and the seat of the disease or injury. " The active mind of John Hunter," says Mr. Hodgson, "guided by a deep insight into the powers of the animal economy, substituted for a dan- gerous and unscientific operation, an improvement founded upon a knowledge of those laws which influence the circulating fluids and absorbent system; and few of his brilliant discoveries have contributed more essentially to the benefit of mankind." THE USE OE THE MICROSCOPE. For exploring the structure of the various textures, and the relation of the anatomical elements of the body to one another, the Microscope is necessary. The great improvements which modern opticians have accomplished, not only in the dioptric I'ii i also in the mechanical adjustments of this instrument, render it an invaluable adjuvant in physiological research. We shall have frequent occasion in the following pages to