INTERVERTEBRAL DISCS. also varies, for the same reason; in some instances being ex- tremely dense, in others soft, yielding, and almost pulpy. When examined microscopically, fibro-cartilage is found to consist of bundles of wavy fibres, with the cells or corpuscles of cartilage occupying the spaces formed by the interlacement of the fibrous tissue. This interlacement is often very intricate, and calculated to increase the strength of the structure in those directions in which the greatest toughness is required. Physical Properties.—To the strength and density of fibrous tissue, fibro-cartilage adds the elasticity of cartilage; it is more variously flexible than the latter tissue, so that it will not crack when bent too much. Fibro-cartilage contains water; when deprived of it by drying, it shrivels up, and becomes hard and yellow. It yields gelatine in abundance on boiling. Vessels and Nerves.—Its vessels are few, and are derived from the textures (synovial membrane or periosteum) with which it is in immediate connexion. Few nerve-fibres are to be demon- strated in this tissue. Forms of Fibro-cartilage.—The articular fibro-cartilage is that which is found most extensively, and it exists in three forms. a. As discs, interposed between osseous surfaces, and equally, adherent to both, of which the intervertebral discs and the interpubic fibro-cartilage are instances, b. As lamina?, free on both surfaces, placed in the cavity of diarthrodial joints between the articular surfaces of the bones. These are the menisci of authors; they exist in the temporo-maxillary, the sterno-clavi- cular, and the knee joints, and between the scaphoid and lunar and cuneiform bones, c. As triangular edges to the glenoid and cotyloid cavities of the shoulder and hip joints. These are styled circumferential. In examining these different forms of fibro-cartilage, some varieties are met with deserving of a brief notice. The intervertebral discs consists of concentric layers of white fibrous tissue, placed vertically between the surfaces of the vertebras: although the layers are vertical, the fibres of which each layer is composed, are directed obliquely from above down- wards, and the direction of the fibres of one layer is such as to decussate with those of the layer immediately behind it. Each pair of layers of fibrous tissue is separated by a lamina of car- tilage. This arrangement belongs to rather more than the