OF GELATIN. 113 form their normal functions, when the substance which yields gelatin by boiling is produced. At an early period of develop- ment, although delicate transparent tissue may be detected, it does not yield gelatin. According to Hoppe, this substance cannot be detected until after the embryo has left the egg. The proportion of the fibrous texture, and gelatin-yielding tissues allied to it, increases as age advances. Gelatin does not exist preformed in the tissues, and can only be obtained by artificial means. If the cutis or true skin, tendon, or bone, be subjected to continued boiling, this substance is obtained in solution in the hot water, and, upon cooling, assumes the form of a solid jelly, which is the more solid as the quantity of water contained in it is less. The textures which yield gelatin are, the white fibrous tissue, areolar tissue, skin, serous mem- branes, and bone; glue, prepared from hides, &c, size from parchment, skin, &c, and isinglass from the swimming bladder of the sturgeon, are various forms of gelatin used in commerce. Gelatin, obtained by boiling, is in combination with a con- siderable quantity of water; by a slow and gentle heat this may be driven off, and the gelatin obtained in a dry state. Dry gelatin is hard, transparent, colourless, without smell or taste; of neutral reaction; in cold water, it softens and swells up, and dissolves in warm water. It is insoluble in alcohol and ether, but very soluble in the dilute acids and alkalies. When tannin, or the tincture or infusion of galls, is added to its solution in water, a brownish precipitate is thrown down—the tanno- . gelatin, which may be precipitated from a solution of gelatin in 5,000 times its weight of water. Gelatin contains in 100 parts (J 50-4 H71 N18-1 0 23-8 S0-6. The process of tanning leather, depends upon the affinity of | gelatin for tannin. The skins of the animals, having been first I freed from cuticle and hairs by soaking in lime-water, are tanned by submitting them to the action of infusion of oak-bark, the • strength of which is gradually increased, until a complete com- bination has taken place. An insoluble compound is thus I formed, capable of resisting putrefaction. If a solution of gelatin, in concentrated sulphuric acid, be diluted with water and boiled for some time, glycocoll may be obtained from it on saturating with chalk. Again, by boiling gelatin in a concentrated solution of caustic alkali, it is sepa- I