152 CONVERSION OF PABULUM INTO BLOOD. THE CONVEESION OP PABULUM INTO BLOOD. The simplest organisms obtain their pabulum from the medium wbicb surrounds them. This seems to be at once absorbed into the organism, taken up by the germinal matter, and converted into the peculiar constituents of the body. But in more complex structures, the pabulum derived from with- out, is not already adapted for the nutrition of the tissues generally. It is, in the first instance, taken up by certain special masses of germinal matter which grow and multiply at its expense. The substances resulting from the death of these particles, consisting of compounds not to be detected in the original pabulum, are afterwards taken up by the ger- minal matter of the various tissues. Thus the spongioles of the plant probably absorb the crude materials from the soil in a state of solution. These are converted by the living matter into new substances, which circulate in channels, and are taken up by the germinal matter entering into the formation of the cells of the various tissues of the plant. In like manner, it appears that nutrient materials in their crude state, cannot be directly appropriated by the tissues of man, but must pass through several stages of preparation, undergoing conversion entirely into new substances which did not exist before, and which are peculiar to his organism alone. Even substances closely allied in composition to the tissues to be nourished, and in a state of solution, are not directly appropriated by the tissues; nor, if injected into the blood, would they be rendered by that fluid fit for this purpose. They must be first modified by various preliminary operations, taken up successively by two or three series of cells (masses of germinal matter), of course in a totally altered form, and not until then are compounds produced, which are adapted for the nutrition of the tissues. If either of these successive processes be modified by an altered action of the cells the pabulum is not properly prepared and the textures suffer in nutrition. The new constituents, whether albuminous, starchy, saccha- rine, or fatty, which are to be added in the blood, to supply the place of the materials which are being removed from it in the process of nutrition, are probably taken up from the intestinal surface in a soluble form, and appropriated by germinal matter,—