213 KINDS OF AREOLAR TISSUE. degeneration, a form of fibrous tissue remains behind. In cirrhosis of the liver, the fibrous matter which is present results not merely from the effusion and fibrillation of lymph, but is the remains of degenerated vessels, nerves, capillaries, ducts, and secreting tubes. In livers in this condition, properly pre- pared for investigation, vessels and shrunken secreting struc- ture can always be demonstrated in the substance of the so- called "fibrous tissue" (L.S.B.).* The same remarks also apply to the kidney in certain cases of disease, and to other organs. It is not to be wondered at, therefore, that this indefinite and unimportant connective material should have been made to play so very important a part in modern pathology. But if we are not mistaken, future observers will be much astonished at the rapid spread and general acceptance of the connective tissue doctrines. Connective tissue has been regarded as the actual seat of the active changes of inflammation and various forms of degeneration. It is supposed to become hypertrophied and then to contract, and by thus compressing glandular tissues to cause them to waste and bring about then destruction. We cannot, however, subscribe to these views, for careful observa- tion compels us to conclude that in many forms of inflammation the connective tissue is passive, while the phenomena which have been wrongly attributed to it are mainly due to the presence of particles of germinal matter which have been detached from the white blood corpuscles, and have passed through the vascular walls into the meshes of the connective tissue, where they have grown and multiplied very quickly. These, and not the connective tissue corpuscles, are the bodies from which, in many instances, those collections of granular cells or corpuscles, pus corpuscles, and allied bodies, familiar to all who have studied the alterations occurring in tissues during the early stages of inflammation, originate. After the lapse of some little time, the germinal matter of the connective tissue corpuscles, as well as that of adjacent tissues, nerves, and vessels, participates in the changes, and in consequence of being freely supplied with nutrient matter, all these masses of germinal matter increase, divide and subdivide, and at length produce pus-corpuscles,f which do not result exclusively front the connective tissue * "Archives of Medicine," toI. i, page 119. t " On the Germinal Matter of the Blood," Microscopical Journal, 1863.