151 EPITHELIAL TEXTURES. from their solutions by boiling. Von Bibra states that the brain fats consist of cerebric acid, a number of different fatty acids, and cholesterin. Cerebrin is of neutral reaction, and soluble in boiling alcohol and ether. According to W. Miiller it contains in 100 parts C 68-35, H 11-30, N 4-69, 0 15-66. It is also found in the yolk of egg and in pus, and probably in the fat of blood serum (Gorup-Besanez). Oleo-phosphoric acid was discovered by Fremy, and has been found in the brain, spinal cord, kidneys and liver. Olein, stearin, oleic and stearic acids, in part combined with soda, potash, or lime, and cholesterin, are also present in the nervous tissue. The substance known as myelin, which exists in connexion with the nerves in very large quantity, has already been referred to (p. 148). The chemical substances obtained from white fibrous tissue, cartilage and bone, have been briefly referred to in page 113. Yellow elastic tissue yields a substance winch is very insoluble, not altered by prolonged boiling in water, quite insoluble in cold strong acetic acid, and scarcely affected by potash and soda. By digestion in sulphuric acid, elasticin yields leucine, and by the action of nitric acid, xanthoproteic acid is formed. Donders has arrived at the conclusion that all fully formed cell mem- branes are composed of a substance closely allied to yellow elastic tissue, which might be termed animal cellulose. At an early period, however, of the process of cell formation, no such n 3ubstance exists in any cells, and in some, no cell-wall can be . demonstrated at any period. The epithelial textures, as epithelium, epidermis, various kinds j )f nail, horn, and hair, wool, whalebone, feathers and tortoise- ! :hell, consist of a substance allied to the protein compounds I md containing from 1 to 5 per cent, of sulphur. Associated J ,vith the protein compound, at an early period of life, is a certain I proportion of amyloid (see page 111). The colouring matter I brmed in connection with epithelial textures is produced at the I same time as the soft, horny material. It is an organic colour- I ng matter, which, like other natural organic colouring matters, esults from changes occurring in a perfectly colourless germinal iaatter.