CHAPTER VII. OF ADITOSE TISSUE.—THE ADIPOSE VESICLE.—VESSELS OF ADIPOSE TISSUE. OF FAT. DISTRIBUTION OF ADIPOSE TISSUE. ORIOIN AND PRODUCTION OF FAT.—OF THE REMOVAL OF ADIPOSE TISSUE, AND THE ABSORPTION OF FAT.—ABNORMAL DEVELOPMENT OF ADIPOSE TISSUE. This tissue has no alliance either of structure, function, or composition with the areolar tissue, but it is usually associated with it. Malpighi, W. Hunter, Monro, and, more recently, other distinguished anatomists, have pointed out the distinct- ness of these two tissues. Adipose tissue may be very rapidly formed and removed. It may be regarded as. one of the lower simpler tissues of the body. An individual may experience the greatest alterations in regard of the amount of adipose tissue in his organism, and change may even occur several times during life, without any serious derangement of the health being necessarily occasioned. This tissue is found in connection with many textures of the body besides the areolar or connec- tive. Bone, glandular organs as the mammary glands, the liver, and pancreas usually exhibit more or less adipose tissue. A com- mon use of this tissue being to occupy spaces of various dimen- sions left in the interstices between organs, and thus to facilitate motion and contribute to symmetry, it is very commonly closely associated with the areolar tissue; but the connection is not an essential one. In the cancelli of bones there is a large deposit of fat, but no areolar connective or filamentary tissue; and in numerous situations, as the eyelids, beneath the epicranial aponeurosis, between the rectum and bladder, under the mucous membranes, and in the whole of the cutis, the areolar tissue exists without being ever accompanied by fat. A distinction is to be drawn between the fat and the adipose ue. Under the latter head may be comprised a greater or less proportion of areolar tissue (in the meshes of which the adipose vesicles with then contained fat are situated), vessels, which ramify very freely, and a few nerve fibres distributed to the