22 OF FORCE AND LIFE. those who take this view, are really only physical forces mani- fested in living things. The sun is the source of all the physical forces operating in living beings. Living plants collect or absorb this force, and store it up in the various substances which are produced in their organisms. These, in their turn, become the food of animals, and thus the solar energy in the form of light and heat and chemical rays collected by plants, and retained by them in a quiescent state in the form of chemical combination, again becomes resolved into mecha- nical and other forces in the animal, and is the source of those active movements which distinguish animals from vegetables in such a remarkable degree. All the work performed by our muscles, all the heat developed in our bodies—all the chemical actions resulting from the union of oxygen with carbon, hydrogen, and other substances in the animal body, have their original source in solar energy. Nor is it surprising, that many who have studied these matters should have fallen into the error of concluding that life itself was but another mode of force; and although this inference has been carefully avoided by Helmholtz and Mayer, and some other philosophers, many have expressed themselves as if they considered that we might for life substitute solar energy, heat, or motion. Although there are some authorities who would not hesitate to affirm that every plant and animal is the mere result of changes in matter brought about by solar energy alone, it cannot be, even in a very loose sense, affirmed that a watch or a steam-engine was formed or built by the sun. And yet, to the physiologist, what poor imperfect contrivances the latter must seem, for, in spite of all the mighty human efforts required for their production, they cannot even repair themselves, much less perpetuate then- race! Hitherto not the slightest approach towards the formation by artificial means of anything having the properties of the lowest and simplest form of living matter has been made. Between the living laboratory and the chemists' laboratory there is scarcely any real analogy, for the former builds itself, and the elements therein appear to place themselves in the exact posi- tions required for the production of the particular substance which is to be formed. This self-constructing, self-maintaining,