Ill DIFFERENT PERIODS OF DEVELOPMENT. double contours, and twisted forms amongst the germinal matter of pus, cancer, epithelial and other cells (plate VIII, figs. 73, 74), and there can be little doubt from the fact, that Beneke has detected myelin in the young shoots and actively growing buds of the potato, asparagus, and many other plants, that myelin is the particular form of fatty matter which imme- diately results from changes occurring in germinal matter. The reaction and chemical characters of this substance are described in page 148. The Saline Constituents consist principally of chlorides, but a small quantity of alkaline and earthy phosphates are also present. The chloride of sodium performs some important office in connection with cell multiplication, as we find this substance invariably present in considerable proportion at an early period of the development of all animal tissues, when the masses of germinal matter are growing and multiplying rapidly. It is possible that salt may be serviceable at the earliest periods of nutritive change, by its property of rendering albumen less viscid, more diffusible, and capable of being very readily appro- priated by the growing germinal matter. Amyloid Substance (C6H10O5).—As the formed material ex- hibits firmer consistence and structural peculiarities, a gelatin- yielding substance is produced. But with this is developed much matter of an amyloid or starchy character, sometimes called glycogen. This has been particularly studied by Rouget, who detected it in cartilage at an early period of development, and also in fibrous and muscular tissues. The epidermic tex- tures exhibit a considerable proportion, although not a trace can be detected in the same textures in their fully developed state. The same is true of the delicate texture which is-at length to become hah, horn, or nail. Dr. McDonnell has shown that this amyloid matter exists in the lung tissue in veiy large proportion, increasing, as development advances, to nearly twenty per cent., while shortly before birth the quantity is so small that it can scarcely be estimated. It is found in muscular tissue generally, but not in that of the heart, in which, probably from its reaching a state of functional activity long before the muscles of the system generally, the proportion of amyloid is comparatively small. In the liver, the formation of amyloid slowly increases, and after birth, its formation seems almost