82 CELL WALL—CELL CONTENTS. probable that the different situation of the germinal matter in the two classes of cells may be determined by the difference in the position ot the pabulum in the two cases, figs. 25, 265. Many of the radiating lines apparent in cells seem to be due partly to the course taken by the pabulum as it flows in converging lines towards the germinal matter, and partly to the manner in which the formed material is deposited layer within layer. In large masses of germinal matter fissures or channels are sometimes seen by which the whole is mapped out into a number of smaller portions, each one of which will be bathed by the fluid as it passes along the channels. An example of the appearance alluded to is represented in plate III, fig. 27. In vegetable cells matter is deposited layer within layer, so as to thicken and strengthen the cell. This matter is, however, not deposited uniformly in every part, but the deposition is almost entirely prevented in the course taken by the currents of nutrient fluid which are continually flowing towards the germinal matter in the centre. As the process of deposition goes on, the channels gradually become narrower, but, as would be inferred, they are, except in very old cells, invariably of con- siderable width nearest to the geraiinal matter, and the " cavity" of the cell, after the drying up of the germinal matter, exhibits a stellate form, fig. 28. In fig. 32 is a portion of the thickened wall of one of the large cells in the potato which are desti- tute of starch, seen in fig. 31, under low power. These figures illustrate the same point. Cells or Elementary Parts consisting of two or more kinds of formed material,—Cell-Wall and Cell-Contents.—In the mucus- secreting cells referred to in the last section, two kinds of formed material were produced from the original germinal matter of the cell, 1, that which has been called cell-wall, and 2, the peculiar matter found in the interior usually termed cell- contents. In plate III, fig. 29, are represented some of the young starch-holding cells of the potato. The so-called cell- wall is formed around, and now invests, the germinal matter, while the starch is deposited as small insoluble particles in its substance. In fact by the death of particles upon the surface of the living matter, the cellulose " cell-wall" is produced, while, in consequence of the death of some of the particles further in- wards, and therefore under different conditions, starch results.