153 CONVERSION OF PABULUM INTO BLOOD. entering' into the composition of the chyle corpuscles which grow and multiply in the lacteal vessels, as well as the white blood corpuscles, circulating in the capillaries. At the same time that these masses of germinal matter are increasing in size, and giving rise by division to new masses, a certain proportion of the mass probably becomes resolved into the various soluble substances which enter into the composition of the serous fluid. All the new pabulum must, therefore, pass into the blood in these two forms, as masses of living germinal matter, varying in size, which become the white, and at length the red blood corpuscles, and serum which consists of a solution of albumen in water, with the so-called extractive matters, traces of fatty matter, and I various kinds of salts. There is reason to infer that very few alimentary substances can be taken up directly by germinal matter of the intestinal siuface. Most of the materials entering into the composition of our food require most important preparation and undergo great modifications before they can be appropriated by any living matter at all. Thus, starch is converted into a form of sugar by the saliva and pancreatic fluids—fatty matter is rendered capable of absorption by the action of the latter secretion and the bile. Insoluble almiminous matters are rendered very soluble by the action of the gastric juice, and most important changes, which are as yet very imperfectly understood, are doubtless effected in the contents of the alimentary canal by these and the other secretions poured into it in such enormous quantity. The sub- stances so prepared are appropriated by the germinal matter, and this appropriation mainly constitutes what has been termed vrimary assimilation. The germinal matter of the tissues, as has been already explained, undergoes conversion into the tissue itself. This ;issue is often greatly modified after its formation. It may tondergo condensation by the removal of water and the ap- proximation of its particles, or it may be rendered firm and hard by the deposition of calcareous or other salts in its sub- btance or in its interstices, and these may chemically combine Uith it, or be merely deposited. The organic matrix of bone ;eeth, and some other tissues is first formed by germinal matter' imd the earthy material to which its physical properties are hntirely due, is subsequently deposited. The formation of the