246 BONE CORPUSCLES. divide themselves between two or three, Avhich are connected in like manner by lateral channels, fig. 146. From these again pass others; and so on, until the whole substance of the bone is perforated by them, so that no particle of the hard osseous tissue is distant more than the to^od °f an m°h from one of these fluid carrying canaliculi. When this beautiful system of microscopic pores and cavities was first seen, it was not recognized as such. The lacunae were imagined to be solid corpuscles (a name still commonly applied to them), and the lines radiating from them to be branching threads of the earthy constituent of bone. In the dry bone the lacunae and canaliculi are both filled with ah, and in conse- quence of the great difference in refractive power between the air and the transparent bone tissue, the light is so bent out of its course in passing from one medium into the other, that the cavities and tubes appear black, as a small ah bubble in water appears like a mass of dark solid matter. It was this solid appearance which led Purkinje, then- discoverer, to call them " bone corpuscles." They may be proved in many ways, however, to be real excavations in the tissue. With a sufficiently high power their opposite walls can be distinctly seen, as well as then hollow interior; but the most conclusive evidence lies in our being able to fill them with fluid. If a dry section of bone, in which they are very apparent, be moistened with oil of turpentine while in the field of the microscope, the course of this penetrating material can be witnessed, as it advances into the tissue. It is seen to run quickly along the pores from the Haversian canals, and from the surface of the specimen, where they have been cut across. Having entered a lacuna, it sud- denly extends along the pores radiating from it, and, through these, reaches other lacunae; rendering the tissue transparent by filling up its vacuities. In parts where air has previously occupied the vacant spaces, and the turpentine cannot displace it, the characteristic appearance of minute bubbles is often present. The refractive power of the turpentine so nearly corresponds to that of the osseous tissue, that the whole section appears homogeneous, and it is only with great difficulty that either lacunae or canaliculi can be discerned: so different are the appearances produced by different processes of examination in the same dead dried tissue.