224 VESSELS OP CARTILAGE. the periosteum of bone, and in the temporary cartilages is indeed the very same structure. In connection with the peri- chondrium ramify the nutrient vessels of cartilage, and it serves to give attachment to muscles. It is in fact continuous on the one hand with the formed material or matrix of the car- tilage, and on the other with that of the tendon. This fact is well seen in the thin section through tendon periosteum, and cartilage represented in fig. 129, pi. XV. It is best ex- amined on the cartilages of the ribs. Its great toughness is sometimes well displayed in fractures of these cartilages, where the perichondrium remains untorn between the fragments. The articular cartilages, which have no perichondrium, are supported and supplied with blood by the bone to which they are adapted, and by the synovial membrane, which extends for some little distance over their free surface. Vessels of Cartilage.—Speaking in general terms, cartilage may be styled a non-vascular tissue, for considerable masses of all its varieties exist, impenetrated by a single vessel. The term non-vascular, however, it is important to observe, is to be understood in a relative sense. All tissues deriving then nutri- ment from the blood circulating in the vessels, are, in fact, if traced up to then microscopic elements, on the outside of the channels through which the blood flows. If the quantity ot vessels be large in proportion to the tissue, or if the two are mingled in an intimate manner, we term the part very vascular. If, on the other hand, there be a considerable mass of tissue, among the elementary parts of which no vessels penetrate, it is styled non-vascular. This word is not used in an absolute sense; for, if so used, it would apply equally to all tissues, except the lining membrane of the vascular system itself* which is nomished by the blood immediately in contact with it. Returning from this digression, we remark, that temporary cartilage, when in small mass, is not penetrated by vessels ; but that, when more than about an eighth of an inch thick, it con- tains canals in its substance, for the transmission of vessels. These canals are somewhat tortuous, and contain a delicate extension of the perichondrium. They may be regarded as so many involutions of the outer surface of the cartilage. The same description will apply to the various membraniform car-