237 EARTHY MATTERS OF BONE. that the least tcmch will destroy the continuity of the texture ; a fact which obviously points to the animal matter as affording to bone its strength of cohesion. Bone may also be deprived of its animal matter by long- continued boiling, under strong pressure, in a Papin's digester. The animal matter is extracted, in combination with water, in the form of gelatine; and the weight of the quantity winch may thus be obtained will, owing to this union with water, exceed by three or four times that of the bone itself. We subjoin the following process, by which the qualitative analysis of the inorganic matter of bone may be readily effected:— The eartliy matters are best examined by treating a portion of burnt bone with nitric acid, diluted with from four to six times its bulk of water; brisk effervescence ensues, proving the presence of carbonic acid. Filter the acid liquid after diluting it with water, and add solution of caustic ammonia as long as the precipitate at first formed continues to be redissolved by agitation ; then add solution of acetate of lead till it no longer occasions any precipitate. The dense white precipitate thus produced consists of phosphate of lead, which melts before the blow-pipe, and on cooling assumes its characteristic crystalline structure. Through the solution, filtered from the phosphate of lead, pass a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen to remove the excess of lead; warm the liquid, to drive off the superfluous gas, and filter: then neutralize by ammonia, and add oxalate of ammonia as long as any precipitate occurs ; abundance of oxalate of lime will fall as a white powder. Evaporate the filtered liquid to dryness; ignite the residue, and wash with hot water ; the magnesia will be left behind in a pure form. AN e shall see that in the formation of bone, the produc- tion of the soft tissue is one process, and the precipitation of lime salts from the fluid which permeates it, and their incor- poration with the soft matrix, another process. The first cannot be brought about except by vital actions. The last is due to chemical changes, and can be, to a certain extent, imitated arti- ficially. Soft bone tissue is formed in certain instances, but in consequence of the secondary process of calcification not having been completed, it remains perfectly soft and useless for the the purposes for which bone is wanted. In the formation and R 2