138 ACTION OP OXYGEN. away the increased amount of heat and diffuse it over the system. In this way a plausible explanation is afforded of the great importance of keeping up the heart's action in diseases characterised by a considerable elevation of temperature, the beneficial effects of which have been demonstrated by observa- tion and abundantly confirmed by experience. Of the substances resulting from the action of Oxygen upon constituents of the Organism.—It is proposed to refer in this place very briefly to a few only of the many compounds which are formed in the organism by oxidation. Many others will be alluded to "when the various liquid secretions in which they are found come under consideration. The action of organs is in great part dependent upon oxidation, and the amount of texture destroyed; and the quantity of oxygen required for the formation of oxidised products varies according to the intensity of the action. In many cases the degree of activity, or the actual amount of work performed within a given time, can, in fact, be measured by estimating the amount of oxidised substances produced. By. the artificial oxidation of certain albuminous matters, oxidised products similar to those found in the body may be formed. Van Deen states that, by the action of nascent oxygen de- veloped from water by a constant current of electricity, he suc- ceeded in obtaining urea, uric acid and allantoin from albumen, and the two first from gelatin; sugar and lactic acid from glycerine and from inosite; and urea and allantoin from uric acid. Many of these bodies, he says, may also be obtained by the action of ozone upon the same substance, and it is probable that the electrolytic ozone is the real agent in the above experiment. It has been stated that a great number of the substances found in living beings have been produced in the laboratory, and that there is reason to think that eventually every one may be artificially built up. When, however, the various instances which have been adduced are carefully investigated, it is sur- prising how the number usually advanced becomes reduced, and it is indeed difficult to point out a single product proved to result immediately from direct tissue oxidation, which can be formed synthetically from substances taken exclusively from the inorganic kingdom,* and the least consideration will satisfy * Berthelot's synthesis of formic acid from carbonic oxide derived from carbonate