178 MUCOUS TISSUE OF masses of germinal matter divide and subdivide, aud form collections which in some cases reach a considerable size. They may, there is every reason to think, even constitute tubercles or form the origin of tumours. In the majority of instances they no doubt degenerate, leaving in the situation they occupied granular matter, oil globules, and other matters which more or less interfere with the action of the tissue, which are often considered as resulting from changes in the tissue itself, instead of arising from this adventitious germinal matter, which has not perhaps originated in the tissue at all. The phenomenon of movement occurs in all forms of ger- minal matter, and although it has not been demonstrated in every one, each year adds to the number of cases in which it has been actually seen. The view of tissue formation adopted by L. Beale involves the existence of capacity for movement in the germinal matter. These and other facts, now so much adverted to by many authors, afford very strong support to the doctrines advocated by him in the first part of this work, and in memoirs and books published previously. MUCOUS TISSUE OF THE UMBILICAL CORD. Simple Fibrous Connective or Mucous Tissue of the Umbilical Cord.—One of the very simplest forms of fibrous tissue, and for this reason well worthy of attentive study, is the so-called mucous tissue of the umbilical cord, or the jelly of Wharton. The arteries and vein of the umbilical cord are connected together by a quantity of a soft form of connective tissue which cor- responds in position to the connective tissue external to an ordinary artery. It serves to connect the arteries with the vein to form the cord. Virchow maintains that in this, as in other forms of connective tissue, special nutrient canals exist which freely anastomose with one another; and that thus is formed an extensive system of communicating tubes for the conveyance of nutrient materials to every part of this temporary texture, which is at every period of its life altogether destitute of capil- lary vessels. Virchow states that in a good preparation " a symmetrical network of cells is brought into view, which splits up the mass into such regular divisions that by means of the anastomoses which subsist between these cells throughout the