92 DEVELOPMENT OP ORGANS. organ. It has been shown that the successive generations of cells produced are lineal descendants of the original cell or cells constituting the germ-cell, while the arrangement, structure, and composition of the elementary tissue formed, differ materially as the development of the texture or organ advances. The successive production of formed material differing in com- position and properties from that previously produced may be accounted for upon the supposition that the successive series of masses of germinal matter possess different powers, but whether this power is acquired during the process of their development or transmitted directly from the original germinal matter we have at present no positive evidence to show. That the new living centres which are developed within pre-existing living masses of germinal matter exhibit powers or properties not possessed by those within which they originated is certain, and it is probable that this origin of new centres within pre-existing ones takes place in all cases, and is an essential phenomenon in development. It is interesting to observe, that a mass of germinal matter which remains quiescent for a certain period of time and absorbs scarcely any pabulum, or perhaps actuaUy none, may give origin to descendants from which special and complex structures and organs not previously formed may be produced; while if this very same mass were to be too freely supplied with pabulum, it would grow and multiply, and would exhibit the greatest activity, but not one of its very numerous descendants would be capable of giving rise to any structure. After existing for a very brief period they would die without leaving any evidence of then having possessed any structure- forming power whatever. Increase in power seems to be associated with the most limited change in germinal matter, while rapid change—increased vital action—seems to be in- variably connected with decadence in power. So that the formation of highly elaborate and complex tissues, organs, or organisms, is not in any way connected with, or due to the influence of, the ordinary forces associated with lifeless matter, but it must be attributed to the influence of some peculiar power capable of controlling and directing both matter and force, and therefore of a nature very different to ordinary force. The laws governing vital phenomena are not yet understood. It will naturally be suggested that the different substances and