FOR MICROSCOPICAL EXAMINATION. 61 but perfectly fresh soft embryonic tissues, and very thin sections of the liver and kidney, thin sections of morbid growths rich in cells, may be coloured in half an hour, while the cells of the above structures, placed on a glass slide, may be coloured in less than a miuute. I have often coloured the germinal matter of the fresh liver cell m a few seconds, by simply allowing the carmine fluid to flow once over the specimen. After the specimen has been properly stained, it is to be washed in a solution consisting of— Strong glycerine, 2 parts. Water, 1 part. It is then transferred to the following acid fluid :— Strong glycerine, 1 ounce. Strong acetic acid, 5 drops. After having remained in this acid fluid for three or four days, it will be found that the portions of even soft pulpy textures have regained the volume they occupied when fresh. They have swollen out again even in the strongest glycerine. It being established as a principle that, for minute investigation, tissues must be immersed and thoroughly saturated with viscid media miscible in all proportions with water, it almost follows that reagents applied to such tissues should be dissolved in media of the same physical properties. For a long time past I have been in the habit of employing solution of potash, acetic acid, and other reagents, dissolved in glycerine instead of in water. In some cases I have found the addition of very strong solutions of certain reagents necessary. For example, the greatest advantage sometimes results from the application to a tissue of very strong acetic acid. If the acid be added to glycerine in quan- tity, the solution will no longer be viscid, so that another plan must be resorted to. I thicken the strongest acetic acid with sugar, a gentle heat being applied to dissolve the sugar. Thus a very strong acetic acid solution of the con- sistence of syrup can be most readily prepared. Strong solutions of potash, soda, and other reagents, are to be made in the same way. Thus a complete chemical examination may be conducted upon tissues, solutions, or deposits preserved in viscid media. The reactions are most conclusive, but of course take a much longer time for completion than when carried out in the ordinary manner. Ten or twelve hours must be allowed to elapse before the change is complete, and the process is expedited if the slide be placed in a warm place (about 100°). Chromic Acid Fluid.—A most valuable fluid to the microscopist, is a solution of chromic acid in glycerine, and another solution of bichromate of potash in the same fluid. A few drops of a strong solution of chromic acid may be added, so as to give to the glycerine a pale straw colour. The bichromate of potash solution is prepared by adding from twelve to twenty drops of a strong saturated solution of bichromate of potash to an ounce of the strong glycerine. By this plan, the hardening effects of these reagents upon the finest nerve tissues are improved, while the granular appearance which is caused by aqueous solutions of these substances is much less. Some- times advantage seems to result from mixing a little of the chromic acid with the acetic acid solution of glycerine.