NUCLEAR FIBRES. 189 not to be connected with, the nuclei. The proportion which the " nuclear fibres" bears to the fibrous substance is different at different periods of development. If we examine the tendon of a foetus, that from a young individual, and one from an adult of the same species, we shall find that the " nuclear fibres" are nearer together in the foetus than in the young animal, and closer together in the latter than in the adult. In other words, as the tendon grows, the fibrous tissue or intercellular substance increases in proportion to the nuclear fibres; or in a given bulk of tendon, the nuclear fibres are much more nume- rous in embryonic tissue than in the same amount of that of the adult.—Fig. 101, a, b, pi. XL If the tendon be stretched longitudinally, the nuclei become narrower and appear as mere lines.—Fig. 100, c, d, e. On the other hand, if the structure be stretched laterally, the mass of germinal matter assumes an oval form, and the extension may be carried so far as to cause the masses to be wider from side to side than from end to end.—Fig. 100, /, pi. XI. The germinal matter thus extended forms but an exceedingly thin layer. The cir- cumference is not so darkly coloured as the central part. Pass- ing in a longitudinal direction are a number of lines (or rather the particles of which the germinal matter is composed, exhibit a linear arrangement) which run parallel with the fibres of the tendon, and these lines in the germinal matter may be seen, if a very high power be used, to be continued into the tendon, as im- perfectly formed tendinous tissue.— Fig. 84, pi.IX, page 170. The direction of the fibres of the tendon is indicated by the arrange- ment of the particles of the germinal matter. These points which are of importance with reference to the natme of the so-called " nuclear fibres" can be demonstrated very distinctly in specimens of tendon which have been prepared in the manner described, and afterwards subjected to stretching and pressure without being previously dzied. The appearances just referred to lead to the inference that the "nuclei" are continuous in all cases with the fibrous tissue ot the tendon, and this may be positively proved to be the case in certain specimens, for the "nucleus" maybe separated with fibrous tissue still connected with it.—Figs. 89, 91, pi. X, page 182 ; figs; 98, 99, 100, pi. XI. The fibrous tissue (intercellular substance) nearest to the nuclei or masses of germinal matter, • is that 0 2