172 CONNECTIVE TISSUE. introduced into the organism of another individual altogether. Not only have the old tissues been utterly destroyed and new ones produced, but in many instances these new ones belong to a totally different type; and were it not that observation has taught us that they have been really evolved at different periods during the life of one and the self-same individual being, we should have concluded not only that they belonged to different species, but in many cases to species far removed from one another. In vertebrate animals there is not an organ in the adult but retains, not only the form which it assumed at a comparatively early period, but some of the very same tissue which was active in early life remains in an altered but deteriorated state. Every adult organ may be said to contain as it were the imper- fect skeletons of organs which were active at an earlier period of life. This material which slowly accumulates, clogs and perhaps even in the most perfect state of things, slightly inter- feres with the free activity of the organ. If from any inter- ference with the changes this unabsorbed debris accumulates in undue proportion the action of the organ may be very seriously impaired. It indeed soon grows old, while all the rest of the body may remain young. Its imperfect action deranges other processes of the body, and these react upon it until further action become impossible, and death results. The gradual but continuous and regular decay and renovation of an organ is normal in the vertebrate animal. The changes exhibit wonder- ful elasticity within certain limits, according to the demand for functional activity of the organ, but these limits, narrow in some, wide in others, cannot be exceeded without derangement and slow deterioration resulting. This continuous renovation of an organ and accumulation of the skeleton of its earlier periods of existence may, however, be almost suddenly interrupted. In those changes which lead to the formation of pus the removal of every texture is as perfect as during the pupa state of the insect, but the germinal matter constituting the pus corpuscles has no power to give rise to that which will take part in the development of new tissues, while the germinal matter taking part in the removal of the larval tissues during the pupa state does possess this power, so that when in vertebrata this complete change occurs the organ is destroyed, and a new one is never developed in its stead. A part