VIEWS OF KOLLTKER A\D VIRCHOW. 251 If the growing bone of any animal be examined, after having been properly prepared with carmine fluid, the masses of bioplasm will be demonstrated without difficulty in the lacunal spaces. The fact of the presence of germinal matter or bioplasm in the lacunae of fully formed bone has however been generally admitted by anatomists since 1850. Under the name of "nucleus" the bioplasm had been observed in the lacunae of many specimens of osseous tissue, and Tomes and De Morgan demonstrated indications of these bodies in the lacunae of fossil bone, in then- paper published in the Phil. Trans, for 1853. The masses of bioplasm are as necessary to the production of bone as they are to the formation of every other tissue. They are not directly concerned in the precipitation of the calcareous matter, but in then absence the production of matrix would be impossible. It is alone by the instrumentality of these masses of bioplasm that the regular circulation of fluids holding in solution the calcareous salts, is maintained throughout every period of bone formation. By this process the regularity in the formation of osseous tissue, which is so remarkable, is secured. See pi. XVII. It is desirable in this place to refer briefly to the views generally entertained by recognized authorities concerning the formation of lacunae and canaliculi of bone. The views of Kolliker and Virchow.—Kolliker considers that the capsule of the cartilage cell and the intercellular matrix become impregnated with calcareous matter, while the granular cell corresponding to the primordial utricle of the vegetable cell, remains within unaltered. He thinks that the canaliculi extend through the matrix by resorption. Virchow says bone contains, "m an apparently altogether homogeneous basis-substance, peculiar stellate bone-cells dis- tributed in a very regular manner." According to this view it is maintained that the matrix is formed as' a true intercellular substance, while from the " cells " it is supposed that processes grow out, and that these gradually make their way through the matrix and anastomose with corresponding processes from neighbouring cells. The '5 lacuna " is said to be occupied by a " cell" with stellate processes which pass into the canaliculi.* * In the following note, copied from page 417 of Dr. Chance's translation, Vir- S