AS AGE ADVANCES. 211 Areolar tissue is in most cases associated with a certain proportion of adipose tissue, which will be described in chapter VII. In the following situations, however, we find areolar tissue without any traces of the adipose texture. Beneath the skin of the eyelids, in the median line of the abdomen, beneath the epicranial aponeurosis. The areolar tissue of the scrotum and penis is also destitute of adipose tissue. It has been supposed that the nutrition of the areolar tissue, like that of the white fibrous tissue, is conducted through the intervention of tubes composed of yellow elastic tissue, but this question has been already referred to in page 203, and need not be further considered in this place. Of the increase of Connective Tissue as Age advances.—The consideration of this subject of areolar or connective tissue has been much complicated by the circumstance that the areolar tissue just described, which is developed as a special structure for definite purposes, the fibrous connective referred to at the commencement of this chapter, and the connective tissue which is formed after the various organs and tissues are fully developed, have been included together under one head, as if they were all of the same nature, designed for similar purposes, and formed in the same way. It must be clear from what has been already stated that, although these textures resemble one another in some characters, they are not produced under the same cir- cumstances, uor do they originate in the same manner. They also exhibit many remarkable differences in structure which require careful consideration. Of these three forms, the last has not yet been considered at all; we therefore propose to refer to it in this place. Con- nective tissue appears to result in adult life from the decay of various textures, and the proportion increases as the indi- vidual advances in age. The change may be studied in many situations ; for example, beneath the abundant plexus of dark- bordered and fine nerve fibres distributed to the mucous mem- brane covering the epiglottis, are numerous parallel fibres cross- ing and recrossing one another, which exhibit the reaction and general characters of yellow elastic tissue. These are found with numerous undoubted nerve fibres; amongst them are numerous delicate cords and bands of wavy tissue, like the cords of white fibrous tissue already referred to. Similar appear-'