231 OF CARTILAGE. mass of germinal matter by which the surrounding matrix, or formed material, has alone been produced. After this has occurred the matrix may become harder and undergo other changes, but no more can be formed. The formation of the matrix in this particular spot has ceased. The matrix, which is recently formed and which shades into the germinal matter is of course soft, and when it is broken through, the mass of germinal matter within may escape entire. In all tissues the bond of union between the germinal matter and formed material is very slight; a fact which receives a simple explanation upon the view of growth brought forward. The mass of germinal matter which has been thus removed becomes smooth upon its outer part and its well-defined outline has been considered to be due to a cell wall, which has been described as distinct from the wall of the cavity in which the " cell" is supposed to lie. In the formation of cartilage, it has been said that the supposed membranous capsule of the cartilage cell sends in septa when the matter it contains undergoes division " which serve as new envelopes for the young cells, yet in such a way, that even the gigantic groups of cells, which proceed from each of the original cells, are still enclosed in the greatly enlarged parent capsules." (Virchow). Against this theory, one of us L. S. B. has endeavoured to show that the matrix or intercellular substance with the membranous capsules of the cartilage cells is passive and possesses no such capacity of sending in septa. Like the cell-wall of a spore of mildew to which it corresponds, it does not possess formative power. It has been produced. It has been formed, but it cannot form. It may be added to, but it cannot increase or build itself up out of pabulum. The outer capsule of the mildew, never possesses inherent powers of growth. It is the internal germinal matter or bioplasm which is alone concerned in the growth of the plant. So in cartilage, the matrix is passive. The germinal matter only possesses active power. The septa do not extend themselves in, or grow in, but the material of which they are composed results from an alteration taking place upon the surface, that is in the oldest part of the germinal matter, fig. 141, at a, and c, pi. XVI. It is certain, that the matrix is never produced without the masses of germinal matter, nor can it increase except by their agency. In disease change is observed in the rate of growth of