119 FIBRIN. albumen of the blood results from changes occurring in the blood corpuscles. In many cases albumen results directly from changes in germinal matter, but it seems probable that in man and the higher animals, part, at any rate, of the albumen of the blood is formed from the red corpuscles which are them- selves formed material resulting from changes occurring in the •white blood corpuscles. Albumen is one of the substances which forms the pabulum of cells, and there can be no doubt that from it many very different materials may be produced by the agency of the living or germinal matter of the various textures. Fibrin exists, in a state of solution, in the blood, forming, with the serum of that fluid, the liquor sanguinis of Dr. Babing- ton, in the lymph and in the chyle. It is a constituent of the exudation (coagulable lymph) which forms on certain surfaces, as the result of the inflammatory process, and it sometimes occurs in dropsical fluids. Fibrin is distinguished from the other substances allied to it by its remarkable property of spontaneous coagulation. When blood or fluid containing much fibrin is drawn from a vessel and allowed to rest, it speedily separates into a solid portion, the crassamentum or clot, and a fluid portion, the serum. The clot of blood consists of fibrin, with the white and red blood corpuscles entangled in it during its coagulation. It sometimes happens that owing to an unusual aggregation of the red parti- cles together, and to then- more speedy subsidence, a portion of fibrin on the surface coagulates without enclosing the colouring matter. A yellowish white layer forms the upper stratum of the crassamentum, and this is called the huffy coat or in- flammatory crust. It is an example of nearly colourless fibrin, but like other forms of this substance, contains also the white corpuscles. We may obtain fibrin in a state of considerable purity, by cutting the crassamentum into slices, and washing them in clean water so as to dissolve out the colouring matter; or by briskly stirring with a bundle of twigs, blood as it flows from i a vessel: the fibrin coagulates upon the twigs in small portions, which being washed, afford good specimens of colourless fibrin; by digesting afterwards, in alcohol and ether, the fatty matters are got rid of. Another mode of obtaining this substance in a