232 DEVELOPMENT OF CARTILAGE the bioplasts. After the matrix has been produced many of the masses of germinal matter may die and disappear, but in grow- ing cartilage they are invariably present. The living matter, of which the germinal matter consists, is always continuous with the more or less transparent matrix. The living matter gradually becomes converted into the matrix. There is no appearance of a ceU-wall distinct from the matrix, as some maintain, nor is there an interval between the living matter and the matrix, unless post-mortem change has occurred. The first passes uninterruptedly into the last, pi. XVI, fig. 140. The ragged outline of many of the masses of germinal matter in the cartilage from the frog renders the terms " cell nucleus," " cell contents," or " granular corpuscle," totally inapplicable, and it is clear that around such masses there can be no cell-wall. The germinal matter gradually becomes the matrix, and all matrix was once in the state of germinal matter, as all the matter in the living or germinal state was once in the condition of .pabulum. Without germinal matter there can be no cell-wall or intercellular substance. In all cases pabulum is converted into germinal matter by pre-existing germinal matter, and this last is at length converted into formed material, be it fluid or solid, cell-wall, secondary deposits, or intercellular substance. We shall find when we come to consider the anatomy of bone, that the first deposition of calcareous particles takes place in the formed material at a point midway between the masses of germinal matter—that is, in the oldest portion of the formed material, fig. 144, pi. XVII. The deposition of the calcareous matter can be explained by physics, and can be imitated out of the body, but the matrix whicli is formed cannot be produced artificially. This results from changes occurring while the matter of which it consists was in the state of living germinal matter. The fibrous tissue of tendon is continuous with the matrix of the cartilage, and the gradual transition from the clear transparent cartilage matrix to the fibrous tissue of the tendon may be well traced in fig. 129, pi. XV, p. 230. So, the con- tractile material of muscle is continuous with the fibrous tissue of tendon, and the masses of germinal matter (nuclei) in the two tissues exactly correspond. The formed material in each tissue is continuous, and the masses of germinal matter