90 OP THE INCREASE OF CELLS. obedience to a tendency of the portions to move away from one another after the original mass has readied a certain size. During this process, a constricted part is produced between the two separating masses, and this becomes thinner and thinner. This band, reduced to the thinnest line, may still connect the two, or it may break, and thus two independent living masses result from the division of one. 2. The parent mass, instead of dividing into two, may divide into three, four, or more equal parts. 3. From every part of the parent mass, protrusions, buds, or offsets may proceed, and however small these may be, each one, when detached, soon absorbs nutrient matter, and grows until it attains the same size as its parent. The formed material of the cell is perfectly passive in the process of increase and multiplication. If soft or diffluent, a portion of this may collect around each of the masses into which the germinal matter has divided, but it does not ' grow1 or 1 move iri and form a partition as has often been stated. When a septum or partition exists, it results not from " growing in," but it is simply pro- duced by a portion of the germinal matter undergoing conversion into the formed material of which it is composed. If the formed material of the cell be hard and firm and unyielding, the germinal matter may make its way through some orifice in it, or at the weakest point, and escape in small particles which pass forth into the surrounding medium, or the separating portions may remain attached to the parent for a longer or shorter period of time, in the form of processes or outgrowths, as represented in plate II, fig. 19. In either case its outer part becomes converted into formed material, which protects it and modifies its rate of increase; so that in no case can it be said that the cell, as a whole, divides, but the germinal matter alone is the material which is concerned in this as well as in all other active phenomena characteristic of cell life. If these simple facts be carefully borne in mind, the differences obseived in the fully formed textures, and the alterations occurring in disease, receive a ready explanation. Of Development.—The greater number of living beings result from changes occurring in a minute body of apparently very simple structure, which is formed within the organism of the female parent, and in which active changes commence imme- diately after its impregnation has taken place. Tins body is the