HEAT PRODUCING PROCESS. 137 interfered with, would seem to be fatal to this view, although it is still widely accepted and tatight. In all those conditions of system which are accompanied by an elevation of the temperature there is an increased production of germinal matter of the tissues of the body generally, while in cases in which there is a local increase of germinal matter, as in the formation of a common abscess, there is invariably a rapid evolution of heat. In both conditions the activity of the oxidising process is far below the healthy standard, while the temperature is many degrees above the normal range, and it is therefore impossible to resist the inference that the elevation of temperature is due rather to changes accompanying the increase of this germinal matter than to increased oxidation. The elevation of temperature is, in fact, associated with suboxida- tion, and therefore cannot, as has been affirmed, be dependent upon per-oxidation. We must not omit to notice that it has been recently shown by Berthelot that, by the hydration and dehydration of organic substances heat results.* Thus, sugar, starch, and fatty matter, by decomposition give rise to increased development of heat; and when albuminoid matters are hydrated and decomposed, or dehydrated and caused to enter into com- bination, heat is set free altogether independently of the process of oxidation. And, lastly, it has been demonstrated by MM. Estor and St. Pierre (Memoires de la Societe de Biologie, 1865) that the venous blood returning from an inflamed part is of a brighter tint than ordinary venous blood, and contains sometimes moro than twice as much oxygen. So that, although the temperature >is several degrees higher than in the normal state, these ob- servations prove that less oxygen is consumed. Many facts would indeed justify the inference that the red blood corpuscles are more intimately concerned in the carrying I away and distribution of heat, and thus in equalising the temperature in various parts of the body, than in the actual production of heat. Supposing heat to be set free during the ncrease of the germinal matter of the capillary walls, which is Ussociated with its increase in adjacent tissues, as in an ordinaiy [case of inflammation, the effect of the corpuscles coming into Contact one after the other with the enlarged masses of germinal I natter, as they traverse the capillaries, would be to carry * Memoires de la Soci&o de Biologie, 1865.