220 CELLS AND INTERCELLULAR SUBSTANCE. forms fibres, resembling those of yellow elastic tissue, exist in the position of the intercellular substance, pi. XV, fig. 130, and in fibro-cartilage the intercellular substance resembles white fibrous tissue, pi. XV, fig. 133. The so-called primordial utricle or the "protoplasm" sometimes seems to be continuous in structure with the cell-wall, sometimes distinct from it. The " capsules " or " cell-walls " sometimes pass gradually into the intercellular substance, and as these are formed one within the other from the " cells,"* the latter must, therefore, at least take part in the formation of the intercellular substance; but it is maintained that intercellular substance is formed without the agency of the cells. We might adduce very many conflicting statements with regard to the anatomy of the simplest form of cartilaginous tissue, but we shall follow the same plan adopted elsewhere? and describe the appearance we have ourselves been able to observe. The simplest cartilage is found in the chorda dorsalis, or rudimentary spinal column of the early embryo: it also exists in the permanent chorda dorsalis of the cartilaginous fishes, and may be well seen in a thin piece of that structure from the lamprey, fig. 124. But, in other kinds of cartilage the germinal matter is imbedded in formed material which may form—1, a capsule sin-rounding the germinal matter (cell- wall), or 2, a continuous mass called inter- sex nucleated ceiis from the cellular substance, or matrix, more or less Chorda Dorsalis of the Lamprey:— . . . . tpc i 1 ' 1 1 a. Nucleus, with nucleolus, b. abundant m the chnerent kmds, and pre- Auother, seen in profile. . . , • • , ■ r- A sentmg certam varieties of appearance. A " cell" of cartilage, therefore, consists of the germinal matter with a proportion of formed material around it, whether this appears separate and distinct, forming a capsule, or continuous as matrix or intercellular substance. See pis. XV, XVI, page 230. In temporary cartilage the masses of germinal matter are very numerous, and situated at nearly equal distances apart in the intercellular substance, which is not abundant. They vary in shape and size, but most are round or oval. When ossification begins, the cells, which hitherto were scattered without definite * See a paper on "Connective Tissue," by Dr. Martyn, in my "Archives," vol. ii, p- HO-