40 OF PHYSIOLOGICAL DIFFERENCES. conditions, at once destroys certain animals and plants. They do not live long enough to be modified by physical agencies. The capacity for existence, under a variety of different condi- tions, and tendency to gradual structural alteration, in conse- quence, seems indeed to be limited to comparatively few of the existing species of animals and plants. It would appear as if the life of the great majority of living beings was almost dependent upon the persistence of the particular external circumstances under which they happen to five. Moreover, the degree of change which actually occurs in different animals, which are capable of being domesticated, is very great. A familiar and very striking example occurs in the case of cats and dogs. How few the varieties of the former, and how comparatively slight the variation which does occur as compared with the latter. The organization of the cat is, as it were, much less plastic than that of the dog. Looking at the facts broadly and generally, there undoubtedly seems much in favour of Mr. Darwin's view, but when we come to consider the structural changes which must occur in a single organ of one of the higher animals, it is more difficult to accept his conclusion. Changes occurring in each stage of develop- ment of a single organ seem continuously associated with others which occurred during those of a prior stage, and the changes affecting every part of one organism appear to be due to some general cause acting upon the whole from the veiy first. Crea- tures, undoubtedly veiy closely allied to one another, differ from each other, not in one or two, but in a vast number of charac- ters. Although they may be much alike in form, and closely allied zoologically, they exhibit physiological differences of the most remarkable kind; and although there is some general accordance in the life history of distinct species, the differences of detail are far more striking and remarkable than, and quite as difficult to account for as, the general resemblances which have attracted notice. In that temporary state in which all matter exists before it assumes the structure and composition peculiar to the different tissues of different living beings, no differences can be detected by any means yet known. The kving matter of an adult tissue could not be distinguished from that of an embiyo. Nor could the living matter of the highest brain cell of man be distui-