219 STRUCTURE OF CARTILAGE. tubes, that require to be kept permanently open; the elasticity of the material effecting this without the expenditure of any force. Thus we find this variety of cartilage in the external ear, in the Eustachian tube, in the nostrils and eyelids, and in the larynx, trachea, and bronchial ramifications. Physical Characters— Cartilage, in colour, varies from slightly bluish, or pearly white, to a whitish yellow. The temporary and articular varieties present the former colour; the mem- braniform, for the most part, the latter. Elasticity, flexibility, and considerable cohesive power, are the chief physical properties of this texture ; and in these qualities, and especially in the first, consists its great value, both in contributing to the perfection of the locomotive appa- ratus, and in its adaptation to other purposes. Cartilage is not very brittle. A thin piece, it is true, may be broken across by being suddenly bent at a very acute angle; but, in general, cartilage will bend easily without the occurrence of fracture, and will speedily resume its former direction on the bending force being removed. Structure.—The simplest kind of cartilage closely resembles some forms of the cellular tissue of plants. The cells or elemen- tary parts may be very large, roundish or ovoidal, and more or less flattened by mutual contact. Each exhibits a mass of living growing geiToinal matter (bioplasm) containing within it one or more new centres (nuclei, nucleoli). It is generally supposed that cartilage consists of cells and an intercellular substance, or matrix, and it is maintained by many that each cartilage cell possesses a very thin wall or cap- sule, distinct and separate from the cartilage matrix. By others, it is considered that the soft granular matter, just within the cell-wall, corresponds to the primordial utricle of plants—so that we may have,—passing from within, outwards : a, nucleus, b, cer- tain cell contents (as not unfrequently fatty matter), c, primordial utricle, d, external cell membrane; and distinct from the latter, supposed to be deposited independently of it, the so-called intercellular substance, e. If these views are applied to the many different forms of cartilage, fibro-cartilage, and embryonic carti- lage, the greatest difficulties will be experienced. Thus, the cell-wall cannot always be demonstrated as distinct from the matrix. Sometimes there is no proper matrix at all. In certain Q.