OF THE CHEMICAL CHANGES 108 an acid reaction. An albuminous substance may be obtained from it, as well as from all other kinds of germinal matter. The formed material of yeast—the envelope or cell-wall pro- duced from the germinal matter (see page 77), consists, according to Mulder, of a substance closely allied to cellulose in composition. It is, then, a fact, that by the growth and multiplication of the germinal matter of the yeast cell, cellulose, carbonic acid, alcohol, a little lactic acid, and some other sub- stances of less importance result; but the precise manner in which all these substances are. produced, has not been de- termined. From what has been already stated, in chapter 1, it would appear probable that the nutrition and growth of the yeast plant occur somewhat as follows:—the cell takes up a certain quantity of sugar, with a trace of albuminous matter salts and perhaps oxygen, and these undergo conversion into germinal matter. At the same time the germinal matter already produced upon the surface undergoes conversion into formed material (see page 77), and this formed matter im- mediately becomes resolved into cellulose, which is precipitated, and carbonic acid and alcohol, which are soluble. All these sub- stances probably result from the death of the germinal matter of yeast. The cellulose forms the insoluble capsule, envelope, or cell-wall, which is permeable to fluids in both directions. The carbonic acid and alcohol being soluble, pass into the surrounding water, and at length escape. Under certain con- ditions, the proportion of carbonic acid and alcohol formed is great, and the amount of cellulose small, while other conditions seem more favourable to the production of cellulose matter. The germinal matter of some vegetable cells gives rise to cellulose upon the surface, while within starchy matter is deposited. In other cases chlorophyl and other colouring matters result from changes occurring in the germinal matter (primordial utricle) in the interior of the cell, after the forma- tion of the cellulose wall upon its surface. In all these cases the formation of the peculiar and characteristic substance which accumulates, is accompanied by the formation of soluble and gaseous matters which escape. The germinal matter of the cells of the leaves and flowers of plants becomes resolved into peculiar coloured compounds, and these are often diffused through the germinal matter, but sometimes collect upon its