LACUNiE AND CANALIOULI. 245 or the "bone cell" in the space or lacuna, and which is here spoken of as the germinal or living matter or bioplasm. Plates XVII to XIX. The fully-formed osseous tissue around, on the other hand, is to all intents and purposes, as devoid of life while the hone yet remains a part of the living body, as after it has been removed, or after the body has died. This small mass of germinal matter, perhaps not more t han one-twentieth of the bulk of the proportion of bone tissue which belongs to it, alone possesses active powers. This only can grow and give rise to the formation of matrix. Bone cannot produce bone any more than tendon can give rise to tendon or muscle form contractile tissue, but the germinal matter or bioplasm only is instrumental in the formation of every one of these tissues, and without this the production of tissue is impossible. Of the Lacunar and Canaliculi.—All the osseous tissue with which the human anatomist is concerned is of such bulk as to contain the series of pores and cavities already alluded to for the conveyance of fluid. These pores always advance into the bone from open orifices on its vascular surface. They are arranged in sets, each of which, after anastomosing with neigh- bouring ones, discharges itself into a small cavity or lacuna, in Pig. 145. Fig. 146. Two lucrum of osseous tissue, seen on their surfaces, showing Transverse section of a part of the bono the disposition of their pores. The granular aspect of the tissue surrounding an Haversian canal, showing both on their walls and around them is well represented.—Magnified the pores commencing at the surface, a, 1200 diameters. Drawn from a preparation of the cancelll of the anastomosing and passing from cavity to Femur made by Mr. Tomes. cavity.—Magnified about 800 diameters From a preparation made by Mr. Tomes. which its individual pores coalesce. From the sides of this lacuna other pores pass off to similar cavities in the vicinity, and, from its opposite surface, others proceed to penetrate still deeper into the tissue. These pour themselves into another lacuna, or