6 LIFE. DEATH. DORMANT VITALITY. veiy considerable period; and afterwards, if placed tinder favourable conditions, will exhibit the process of germination as completely as if they had been only recently separated from the parent plant. Eggs, also, may be preserved for a long time ■without injury to the power of development, or to the nutrition of the embryo contained within them. But neither eggs nor seeds will exhibit vital activity if kept beyond a definite period of time. This fact renders it probable that certain slow changes do occur even in this dormant state; and that when these changes have once ceased no altered conditions whatever will recall the power of germination to egg or seed. It is worthy of observation, that those processes, which denote vital activity, may be sometimes temporarily suspended, even in fully formed animals and vegetables; and, in such instances, life may be said to become dormant. That is, under these altered conditions, changes occur so slowly as not to be perceptible to ordinary observation. The privation of moisture or of heat is the ordinary cause of this partial cessation, or diminished activity of, the phenomena of life. In dry weather, mosses often become desiccated, and although they appear quite dead, will nevertheless speedily revive on the application of moisture. The common wheel animalcule, although apparently killed by the diying up of the fluid in which it had been immersed, will speedily resume its active movements on being supplied anew with water. But this desiccation is not perfect and complete desiccation. Whenever living matter of any kind is perfectly dried, it is killed, and can never be resuscitated. The manner in which the living matter is protected renders it very difficrdt to dry it thoroughly, and if but the most minute particle remains moist, it may retain its vitality, and increase and exhibit vital actions whenever the conditions under which it is placed become favourable. Certain living organisms and tissues may be frozen without being killed, but in this case it is doubtful if the germinal or living matter itself be rendered solid, any more than by desiccation it is completely deprived of water. Composition of Organized and Unorganized Bodies.—Inorganic bodies may be resolved by ultimate analysis into oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon, and about fifty other substances, which chemists regard as simple, because they appear to consist of one land of matter only; that is to say, tbey have hitherto