63 FOR MICROSCOPICAL EXAMINATION. If it is desired to prepare one organ only, this may, of course, be removed and operated upon separately ; but I generally subject the entire trunk, with all the viscera, to the action of the carmine fluid. If the brain and spinal cord are special objects of inquiry, the cranium and the spinal canal must be opened so as to expose the organs completely, before the staining process is cemmenced. Enough of the carmine solution is then placed in a little porcelain basin or gallypot, just sufficient to cover the entire trunk and viscera. The specimen is then moved about in the carmine fluid, so that every part that is exposed may be thoroughly wetted by it; sometimes slight pressure with the finger is required. It is left in the carmine fluid for a period varying from four to six or eight hours, being occasionally pressed and moved about during this time, so as to ensure the carmine fluid coming into contact with every part. By this time the blue colour of the vessels of the lungs, viscera, <fcc., will have almost entirely disappeared, and all the tissues will appear uniformly red. The staining is now complete. The carmine fluid is poured off and thrown away, and the preparation washed quickly with the glycerine solution. The specimen is now placed in another little basin, and some strong glycerine poured over it; it is then left for two or three hours, and a little more strong glycerine added ; when, from six to twelve hours since the specimen was removed from the carmine solution have elapsed, the preparation is ready for the last preliminary operation. The glycerine used for washing it is poured off, and sufficient strong Price's glycerine added just to cover it. To this, three or four drops of strong acetic acid are added, and well mixed with the glycerine. In this acid fluid the preparation may be left for several days, when a small piece of some vascular part may be cut off, placed in a drop of glycerine, and subjected to microscopical examination. If the injected vessels are of a bright blue colour, and the nuclei of the tissues of a bright red, the specimen is ready for minute examination ; but if the blue colour is not distinct, three or four more drops of acetic acid must be added to the glycerine, and the preparation soaked for a few days longer. If the nuclei are of a dark red colour, and appear smooth and homogeneous, more especially if the tissue intervening between them is coloured red, the specimen has been soaked too long in the carmine fluid; but in this case, although parts upon the surface may be useless for further investigation, the tissues below may have received the proper amount of colour. Another plan which I have adopted, and which, although more difficult in practice, if carried out with due care, possesses some advantages, is the following: The vessels are in the first instance thoroughly injected with the carmine fluid, and the preparation allowed to soak for four-and-twenty hours, when a little glycerine is first injected, and then the Prussian blue injecting fluid introduced until the capillary vessels are completely filled with it. The fluid must be injected very slowly, and but slight pressure employed, or the vessels will certainly be ruptured. When the second injection is complete, the textures required for investigation may be removed, washed in glycerine, and, after soaking for a day or two in acetic acid glycerine, will be ready for microscopic investigation. Beautiful and most perfect specimens of solid internal organs, like the braiu and spinal cord, may be obtained by this process ; and it is the most perfect plan I have adopted, although it presents many practical difficulties, and will probably fail in the hands of the student