124 COAGULATION OF FIBRIN. thin, thread-like processes, which gradually assume the appear- ance of filaments of fibrin.* White corpuscles, which, when first removed from the body, appear perfectly smooth and transparent, gradually become more or less granular, plate V, fig. 44, above a; and the granules increase in number and size for some time, until the movements exhibited by the perfectly transparent germinal matter cease, and the white corpuscle dies, and forms a coagulum. The fibrin in the blood of some rodents appears perfectly granular imme- diately after coagulation has occurred, and there is no indica- tion of distinct fibres, plate V, fig. 48. All recently formed fibrin is found to contain an immense number of the white blood corpuscles, as may be readily demonstrated in the beautifully transparent colourless coagula not unfrequently found in the cavities of the heart, plate V, fig. 47. The substance, therefore, which we know as fibrin, undoubtedly consists of the highly refracting, insoluble, and eminently elastic threads (fibrin); and the insoluble transpa- rent matter resulting from changes in the living and eminently mobile material of the white blood corpuscle. It seems probable that the threads are originally formed from a substance produced by the white blood corpuscle. The above observations are not opposed to the view of Buchanan and A. Schimdt,—for the fibrinogen, the material which is required in very large proportion, may be furnished by the white blood corpuscles and the minute corpuscles of the same nature; while from the red blood corpuscles the fibrino-plastic substance, of which a mere trace seems to be necessaiy, may escape. The spontaneously coagulable matter may, however, in certain cases, remain diffused for months after it has been formed, without coagtdation taking place, and then an altera- tion in the external conditions, exposure to air, &c, may cause it to assume the solid form. With reference to the uses of fibrin there can be no doubt that it performs an important service in limiting haemorrhage when vessels are divided, and that it forms, when effused in internal parts, or on the surface of wounds, a temporary tissue, * " On the germinal matter of the blood, with remarks upon the formation of fibrin."—Trans. Mic. Soc., December, 1863.