276 PRODUCTION AND RKMOVAL in the matrix. In the vicinity of the point of ossification, for example, in one of the long bones, the " cells" are seen to become gradually arranged in linear series, which run down as it were towards the ossifying surface. The appearance they present on a vertical section is represented in fig. 180. At first their aggregation is irregular, and the series small (b b') ; but, nearer to the surface of ossification, they form rows of twenty or thirty. These rows are slightly undulated, and are separated from one another by the matrix or intercellular substance. The masses of germinal matter or bioplasm of temporary cartilage are small, and pretty uniformly scattered through a sparing homogeneous matrix, but as they become arranged in rows they increase in size, c', are closely applied to one another, and are compressed. This is observed near the ossifying sur- face, and it is probable that as change ad- Fiq. 181. vances in this situation, the matrix becomes more permeable to nutrient matter, and ■Jd\k ® l^f hence the bioplasts increase in size. The nuclei or new centres of growth are often Alb^JL?* i large and very distinct, especially in the elementary parts which have become em- bedded in the temporary bone. The lowest row of bioplasts appears to dip into, and rest in the deep narrow cups of bone, formed by the osseous transformation of the "intercellular substance," between the rows. These cups are seen in a verti- Horizontal section or tho ossi- . . , . fyincsurfnee of a roctni hone; shew- cal section in fig. loO, c c, and m a trans- ing tho cups of hone cut across, . _ . „ . .p . with the granular nuclei of the in- yei'Se SectlOll Oil the level Of the OSSltymg eluded "cells." n, New bone. 4,Nu- , . „ . , clous.-From the mbbit. Taken surface m fig. lol. As ossification advances from a drawing of Mr. Tomes. . r between the rows, these cups are of course converted into closed areolae of bone, the walls of which are lamelliform, and at first extremely thin. action on the earthy matter of the developing bone. The most minute ossific points can therefore be very readily discovered. A foetus, prepared by being soaked for a few days in this fluid, and preserved in weak spirit, forms a very beautiful prepara- tion. The specimen figured -was prepared eighteen years ago (1853-4), and still preserves its transparency. The practical advantages of such a plan over the usual very laborious process of dissection, in investigating tlie periods of ossification m various bones, are obvious. This fluid will also be found very useful in studying the si ruoture of many soft granular organs. I found it of special service in investigating the anatomy of the liver. [L.S.B.]