IN THE SIMPLE CELL. 109 surface. The germinal matter itself is never coloured, for the soluble coloured matter may be separated from the colourless germinal matter. The formation of chlorophyl from germinal matter may be studied in many of the lower plants, and its separation from the germinal matter effected. In like manner coloured matter may be separated from the colourless germinal matter of many of the young red blood corpuscles of mam- malian animals which consist principally of germinal matter. It is probable that in animal cells also, the formation of several chemical compounds from the germinal matter at the same moment occurs. In the liver cell, for instance, four distinct classes of solid matters seem to be produced by the re-arrange- ment of the elements of the germinal matter—resinous biliary acids, fatty matter, albuminous matter and amyloid substance. The relative proportion of these different substances produced seems to vary according to different circumstances. Sometimes the quantity of fatty matter is enormous, while in other instances only a mere trace is produced, and the same remark applies to the other constituents. If, according to the view generally entertained, the different substances entering into the composition of a complex secre- tion, are separated from the blood and afterwards altered in composition by some unexplained action of the cell, or its nucleus, how are we to account for the fact of distinct classes of substances being separated, or separated and altered, by the agency of one and the same cell or nucleus ? The oily, saccharine, aud albuminous constituents (butter, sugar, caseine) of milk, have not been discovered in the blood, and there is only one kind of cell to form these three classes of sub- stances. Does the same cell-wall or nucleus separate from the blood at the same time oily, starchy or saccharine, and albuminous matters, and convert these into the particular con- stituents of milk, or are they separated one after the other? Upon either supposition it would be extremely difficult to account for the actual facts, while, if, as has been rendered probable by different arguments already advanced, the con- stituents, absorbed from the blood, become first converted into germinal matter, which at length becomes resolved into these three classes of substances, at least a more plausible theory, if not a complete explanation, of the process, is arrived at.