INTERCELLULAR SUBSTANCE. 85 of an oval mass of germinal matter, with either extremity of ■which a fibre is connected. The cell moves in a direction more or less at right angles to the line of the fibres, and as it moves it probably turns round upon its own axis, in such a way that one fibre becomes coiled round the other, as represented in the drawing. This interesting lorm of cell will be described in the chapter upon the anatomy of nervous tissue, and it is only alluded to here as an illustration of the fact that every highly complex cell, like cells of very simple structure, consists of germinal matter and formed material. In the sympathetic ganglia of the higher vertebrata the cells are more spherical and several fibres come off from each cell, but the peculiar twisting of one fibre round the other, as in the case of the cells from the frog, and some other batrachia, has not been observed. Of the so-called Intercellular Substance.—In cartilage, tendon, and some other tissues there is no line of separation between the portions of formed material which belong to each respective mass of germinal matter as is the case in epithelium, but the formed material throughout the entire tissue forms a continuous mass of tissue, matrix, or, as it has been termed, connective substance. From the apparent essential difference in structure, it has been supposed that tissues of this character were developed upon a principle very different to that upon which epithelial structures were produced. It has been maintained by some that in cartilage a cell-wall, distinct from the intervening transparent material, existed around each cell, and it has been very generally concluded that the matrix was deposited be- tween the cells, and hence this was called " miercellular substance." By reference to figs. 37 and 39, plate IV, it will be seen, however, that the so-called intercellular substance of cartilage and tendon exactly corresponds to the formed material of the epithelial cell, fig. 22, plate II. A " cell," or elementary part of fully formed cartilage and tendon, consists of a mass of germinal matter with a pro- portion of the formed material around it. A line passing midway between the different masses of germinal matter would mark roughly the point to which the formed material corres- ponding to each particular mass of germinal matter extended,