OSSIFICATION OK 274 Fib. 178. bones are late, as well as those of the tarsus. Sue tigs. 17G, 177. Some bones do not begin to ossify till after birth, as the patella. It is not possible to demonstrate by the ordinary process of dissection, or by maceration, the points of ossification winch are first formed at a very early period of development of the embryo, but if the soft tissues be made transparent, every spot of earthy matter in the skeleton may be observed most distinctly as soon as it appears, and by condensing a strong light upon the various parts of the skeleton properly prepared, the youngest ossific points are beautifully seen. Figs. 176 and 177, which repre- sent foetuses at the eighth or ninth week, and at the end of the third month, respectively, have been copied from speci- Vcrtical Motion or the knee-joint of an Infant; -nrpnrivpf] lw Qmlrino' enmp showing the points of ossification In the shaft and IllellS piepaieCl Oy SOaKlllg SOUie epiphysis of the femur and tibia, and In the patella. ,n QT1 ollrnlino flm'rl * A few vascular canals arc also seen In the cartilage. tllUO 111 clU ^IKfUlUC HUlll. Natural sizc.-From the Museum of King's Col- Ju many boneS the OSSifica- lege. tion of the temporary cartilage begins at more than one point. Tims, in the long bones, fig. 178, there is a middle point, to form the future shaft; and one at each extremity, to form the articular surface and eminences. That in the shaft is the first to appear, and the others succeed it at a variable interval. The central part is termed the cliaphysis, and for a long period after birth there remains a layer of unos- sified cartilage between this and the epiphyses, as the ex- tremities are then styled. Pro- cesses of bone have usually their * I have obtained excellent results from the use of a fluid composed of alcohol Fig. 179. -Scapula of a ftctus at the seventh month ; shewing the propress of ossification- Natural size. The light parte are epiphyses as yet cartilaginous.—From the Museum of King's College. London.