THE PUS CORPUSCLE. 95 The outer hardened formed material of an epithelial cell may be torn or ruptured mechanically, as in a scratch or prick by insects, or it may be rendered soft and more permeable to nutrient pabulum by the action of certain fluids which bathe it. In either case it is clear that the access of pabulum to the germinal matter is facilitated, and the latter necessarily "groios"— that is, converts certain of the constituents of the pabulum that come into contact with it into matter like itself,—at an increased rate. The mass of germinal matter increases in size and soon begins to divide into smaller portions. Parts seem to move away from the general mass. These at length become detached, and thus several separate masses of germinal matter, which are embedded in the softened and altered formed material, result. These changes will be understood by refer- ence to- fig. 43, a, b, c, plate TV. In this way the so-called inflammatoiy product pus results. The abnormal pus-corpuscle may be produced from the germinal or living matter of a normal epithelial cell, the germinal matter of which has been supplied with pabulum much more freely than in the normal state. It will be seen how easily the nature of the changes occur- ring in cells in inflammation can be explained if the artificial nomenclature of cell-wall, cell-contents, nucleus, be given up. In all acute internal inflammations a much larger quantity of inanimate pabulum is taken up by certain cells and converted into hving matter than in the normal state. Hence there is increase in bulk. Cells of particular organs, which live very slowly in health, live very fast in certain forms of disease. More pabulum reaches them, and they grow more rapidly in consequence. In cells which have been growing very rapidly and are returning to their normal condition, in which the access of nutrient pabulum is more restricted than in the abnormal state, as is the case in normal cells passing from the embryonic to the fully-formed state, the outer part of the germinal matter under- goes conversion into formed material, and this last increases as the supply of pabulum becomes reduced. We will now enquire what alterations can be observed in cells, the "formed material" of which, under normal conditions, be- comes quickly resolved into other soluble constituents if these cells be placed under circumstances which caused the formed