99 ORGANIC AND INORGANIC MATTERS. ments of the portions of which it consists, which seem essential to the living state of matter, could not take place unless every portion of a living mass were free to move in fluid, or contained so much fluid as to be readily moveable, not only around, but through other portions. Water is a solvent of many organic and inorganic matters; it is, therefore, a valuable medium for conveying these substances to and from the several textures and organs. Moreover, it dissolves various gases. Oxygen is thus earned in solution to various parts of the body, where it acts upon certain of the insoluble solids, which are thereby oxidized and rendered soluble. The substances thus formed are carried away in solution. Water plays a most important part in the various chemical operations of the body; and by its addition to or subtraction from a particular compound, an alteration in its properties may be induced. The various methods at our disposal for separating from one another the different compounds formed by living beings, and of resolving these into then ultimate elements, belong respectively to the departments of proximate and ultimate analysis. (See page 5.) Organic and Inorganic Matters.—The solid textures and the soluble substances held in solution in the fluids of the body, consist of two classes of compounds, spoken of as organic and inorganic. But many of the so-called organic substances have been prepared artificially in the laboratory, and they cannot therefore be considered as peculiar to living beings. The organic matters are decomposed by a red heat, while the inorganic or mineral substances are not destroyed by incineration. Organic compounds are composed of certain of the non- metallic elements, and principally of oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, and carbon. These elements, in the living body, are combined so as to form complex but often unstable com- pounds, and, under certain conditions, by hydration or by the appropriation of oxygen and other substances, these organic compounds may be afterwards split up, as it were, into much simpler but more stable bodies. The organic compounds which enter so largely into the composition of the various solids and liquids of living beings, differ from one another, in composition and properties, in the H 2