28 THEORIES OF LIFE. The resistance which living animals introduced into the stomach are capable of offering to its solvent powers, and the digestion of the walls of the stomach by its own gastric juice, after sudden and violent death, seemed to denote that the dead animal or dead stomach had lost a something which previously protected them against the influence of the gastric fluid. This something, according to Hunter, was the materia vitas, according to Prout, the organic agent. But such a result as tliis can be explained in a very simple way according to the view of structure given in Chapter I. In the texture still connected with the body of a living animal, and for a certain time after its removal, currents of fluid are continually passing through every part of the formed matter or tissue, to and from the masses of gemiinal or living matter, which are regularly distributed through it. This slow circulation of fluid derived from the blood, continues in a definite direction as long as the germinal matter remains alive; and while it continues the tissue cannot be permeated by another fluid. When the germinal matter dies, however, all these currents cease, and any fluid with solvent properties in which the tissue may be immersed, as the gastric juice, soon permeates it and dissolves it. So that the tissue is not pre- vented from being dissolved, by the influence of any vital force or power, but simply by the presence of fluids which permeate it in definite directions while it still lives; the flow of these fluids ceasing as' soon as the living matter of the tissues dies. Thus it is that a living tissue resists the action of the gastric juice, and a dead tissue, or more correctly speaking a tissue, the germinal matter of which has ceased to live, and to and from which currents have in consequence ceased to flow, is soon dissolved by it. The process of digestion itself is probably only chemical solution. So much for the dependence of life and organization on a controlling and directing entity. John Hunter rejected this doc- trine entirely, but, as has been stated, went so far as to assume the presence of a peculiar material of life, which he maintained pervaded the organism and gave vital properties to solids and fluids. If, however, such a constituent existed in the body, it ought to be demonstrable by chemical or other means. Mr. Abernethy's doctrine that this materia vitoe was electricity or something akin to it is opposed to obvious facts. Electricity