176 VIRCHOW'S TUBES. stance—forgetting apparently that this could be more simply and more efficiently nourished by the free passage of the nutrient fluid everywhere through the interstices of the tissue itself, without the complex system of juice-conveying canals he has described. But thick walled tubes, composed of the least per- meable of tissues, are hardly adapted for the operation. And when these tubes are to be demonstrated, the channel is found to be so very narrow that it is doubtful if the nutrient fluid would flow through it as fast as it would be required, if such a system of canals supplementing the blood-vessels was wanted at all; whilst it is quite certain that it would never permeate the enor- mously thick walls which it is admitted these canals possess. But Virchow admits that these tubes gradually become im- pervious, and thus accounts for the fact that only very rarely can the tubular structure be demonstrated at all. He says, " it has not up to the present time positively been determined, whether in the course of this transformation, the condensation of the walls of the cells proceeds to such a pitch as entirely to obliterate their cavity, and thus completely destroy their powers of conduction, or whether a small cavity remains in their interior." In transverse sections of fine elastic fibres it looks as if the latter were, the case, and there is therefore ground for the supposi- tion, that in the transformation of the corpuscles of connective tissue into elastic fibres, nothing more than a condensation and thickening, and at the same time a chemical metamorphosis of the membrane takes place, but that ultimately, however, a very small portion of the cell-cavity remains* In short, it is admitted that the supposed nutrient tubes cease to be tubes, and cease to transmit nourishment at a time when nutrient plasma is still required, and may be demonstrated in the tissue itself, and at a time when the supply of capillaries is scanty; while at an early period of development, when the tissue is growing fast, there are no juice-conveying canals at all. These supposed elastic tubular fibres consist of imperfectly formed connective tissue. Many are seen to be still connected, * The theory necessitates the supposition that the cavity is obliterated by the deposition of matter in the interior of the supposed tube, but these yellow elastic fibres which are supposed to represent the cellular element and to constitute juice canals are certainly thickened by the deposition of new matter upon the surface. See "Yellow Elastic Tissue," page 203.