270 M I1'. DULL A OR MARROW. bony tissue will be formed in the new situation. This process is due to the growth and development of the masses of bio- plasm which exist in such great number at the deep surface of the fibrous periosteum. These grow and multiply, and pro- duce formed material, just as if they had remained in the original seat of then- development—a striking proof that the kind of tissue formed by living matter depends upon its powers rather than upon its position or the conditions to which it is exposed. In certain forms of bone cancer very minute portions of actively growing bioplasm are sometimes carried to the lungs, and grow and multiply and give rise to bone cancer in the pulmonary tissue, proving that the bioplasm possesses the peculiar property or power of forming this particular tissue if supplied with pabulum. Of the medulla or marrow of bone.—The medulla of bone is a form of almost pure adipose tissue, which contains very little areolar tissue associated with it. It is a question of great interest how this adipose tissue is produced. It fills the can- celli, and exists in quantity in the medullary cavity, and is even found in large Haversian canals. There is no doubt that the elementary parts which form at length the fat cells of the marrow, are the direct descendants of the bioplasts which gave origin to the cells converted into bone. The proper marrow cells (myeloid cells) may become converted into bone-tissue or into marrow. During development, as would be supposed, these ''myeloid" cells contain little or no fat, but as the bone attains its permanent character, many of the cells become "fat cells" instead of being converted into bone-tissue. In the majority of birds these cells do not form fat, but as the bones are freely penetrated by air, the matter which would be fat under other circumstances, is probably oxidised as fast as it is produced, and caused to be eliminated as carbonic acid. Of Myeloid Cells and of the formation of the plates and spicule of the Cancellated. Tissue.—The little plates or cylindrical spicules of bone which enter into the formation of the cancelli are represented at first by soft masses, consisting of several ele- mentary parts of bone. These masses may often be detached, when they are found to have the appearance of large compound cells, consisting of many smaller ones. They are met with in numbers beneath the periosteum as well as in the medullary