OF DEVELOPMENT. 91 ovum or egg, which in many cases is provided with a store of nu- trient matter, to be appropriated by the embiy o during the early period of its development. The essential portion of the ovum is exceedingly minute. It consists of germinal matter which, besides exhibiting special and peculiar characteristics in the course of its development, presents at every period of existence the same general characters, and possesses the same general properties as every other kind of germinal matter. The com- plete ovum or egg of man and the higher animals exhibits a somewhat complex structure, and certain special parts have received distinct names which it may be well to give. Most externally is the homogeneous vitelline or yolk membrane, which contains besides the yolk the essential parts, called the germinal vesicle, within which is the germinal spot, but these last probably correspond to parts found in the ordinary " cell"—the centre of germinal or living matter, termed the nucleus, within which is another centre termed the nucleolus. Before an embryo can be developed from the true ovum, im- pregnation must take place. It is now certain that in this process the male element (including the minute mass of ger- minal matter it contains ?) penetrates quite into the substance of this small mass of hving matter, and exerts an influence upon all the phenomena which are to succeed in it. The germinal matter of the ovum having thereby acquired new powers, divides and subdivides, and many series of new masses of germinal matter successively come into existence, disappear, and give place to new ones, each series being however the descendant of that which existed before, until at last a number of masses result, from which the earliest traces of the new being or embryo are evolved. But there are many instances of beings of comparatively simple organisation from which a new organism may result without the formation of a true ovum. Certain masses, and, in some cases, eveiy mass of germinal matter in the body, may give rise to the formation of new and complete organisms. To this process there is some analogy even in the highest animals, and at all periods of life, in the development of simple masses of living matter into new tissues of very complex structure. We are quite unable to offer any clear and satisfactoiy explanation of the phenomena of development of a tissuo or