04 ON THE PREPARATION OF TISSUES unless he has the patience to make the attempt many times ; when, however, success is obtained, he is well rewarded for the trouble he has taken, and the many failures he may have experienced. The tissues or orgaus to be subjected to special investigation may now be removed, and transferred to fresh glycerine ; they may be kept in little corked glass tubes, and properly labelled. Generally, the tissue will contain sufficient acetic acid, but if this is not the case, one drop more may be added. Suppose, now, the nerves with the small vessels and areolar tissue at the posterior and lower part of the abdominal cavity, have been placed in one tube, and the prepared tongue of the Ilyla in another, the former specimen may be taken out of the glycerine and spread out upon a glass slide. If it be examined with an inch power, numerous microscopic ganglia may be seen. Several of these, perhaps, are close to small arteries. Those which are most free from pigment cells are selected, and removed carefully by the aid of a sharp knife, fine scissars, forceps, and a needle point. This operation may be effected while the slide is placed upon the stage of the microscope. The transmitted light enables the observer to see the minute pieces very distinctly ; if necessary, a watchmaker's lens may be used. The pieces selected are transferred to a few drops of the strongest glycerine placed in a watch glass or small basin, or in one of the little china colour moulds, and left to soak for several hours. The microscopical examination of the specimen may now be carried out. One of the small pieces is placed upon a glass slide, in a drop of fresh glycerine, and covered with thin glass. The glass slide may be gently warmed over the lamp, and the thin glass pressed down upon the preparation by slight taps with a needle point. The specimen may now be examined with a quarter, and afterwards with the twelfth of an inch object glass. A good deal of granular matter will possibly obscure the delicate points in the structure. The slide is again gently warmed, and, with the aid of a needle, the thin glass is made to slide over the surface of the specimen, without the position of the latter being altered, and then removed and cleaned. The specimen is then washed by the addition of drop after drop of strong glycerine containing five drops of acetic acid to the ounce. The slide can be slightly inclined while it is warmed gently over the lamp, in such a manner that the drops of glycerine slowly pass over the specimen and wash away the debris from its surface. The most convenient instrument for dropping the glycerine on the specimen is a little bottle, of two ounces capacity, with a syphon tube drawn to a point, and a straight tube, with an expanded upper part, over which is tied a piece of stout sheet vulcanized India-rubber. Upon com- pressing the air, by pressing down the India-rubber, the glycerine is forced drop by drop through the syphon tube and allowed to fall upon the specimen.* When several drops of pure glycerine have been allowed to flow over the specimen, the thin glass cover, after having been cleaned, is re-applied and pressed upon the specimen very gradually, but more firmly than before. If * These little bottles, as well as any other instruments or apparatus required, can be obtained of Mr. Matthews, Carey-street, Lincoln's Inn-fields; Mr. G. King, 190, Great Portland-street, or Mr. Highley, Green-street, Leicester-square.