261 OF COMPACT TISSUE. its nourishment so easily. Hence its surface is greatly aug- mented by the arrangements already detailed; and, in addition to this, as has been already shown, the osseous tissue itself is provided with a special system of microscopic cavities, " lacuna," and " canaliculi," or pores, by which its recesses may be irrigated, to a degree greatly exceeding what could have been effected by blood-vessels alone, consistently with the compactness and density required in the tissue. The bony tissue with its canaliculi and germinal matter always has a certain definite relation to the vessels. It may exist as a simple thin lamina, covered upon each side with a highly vascular membrane, or as solid cylindrical processes often arranged so as to form a network, also invested with a vascular membrane; or the osseous tissue may be arranged in concentric laminae round the central vascular canal of Havers, which in the living bone is occupied by a minute vessel, around which are numerous small living particles, masses of germinal mat- ter or bioplasm. These living bioplasts are concerned in the growth and removal of the osseous tissue. See p. 278. Of a thin plate of bone the tissue in. the central part is the oldest. Of a solid cylinder, that in the centre was first formed, while of the laminae of the Haversian system, those at the cir- cumference are the oldest, and the laminae close to the central vessel were the last developed. The first two forms of bony tissue constitute the cancellated structure, and the last (Haver- sian systems) make up the compact tissue of bone; but, as woidd be supposed, transitional forms exist, and if the thin laminae of bone forming the boundaries of spaces be very much thickened by the formation of new laminae within them, the arrangement of the Haversian system is approached; while, on the other hand, if the canal in the centre of several adjacent Haversian systems be very much increased in size, in conse- quence of the multiplication of the bioplasts and the removal of the bone tissue, we should get an arrangement very like that seen in the cancellated texture. These differences are not fanciful, but such transitions can actually be demonstrated in almost all bones. A section of a growing stag's antler affords a very beautiful example of Haversian systems, and shows how the bony tissue grows around the blood-vessels (fig. 1G8). In the central part are