128 EXTRACTIVE AND SALINE MATTERS. It is not crystalline, and when dry it forms a brown powder, which contains nearly 9 per cent, of iron. A thin layer of a solution of hsematin exhibits a greenish colour, while a thick one is dark red. Hoppe-Seyler names another substance allied to Hcematin, Methamo-globulin. This may be a mixture of hseniatin and some albuminous substance. Hcematoidin is a modified form of hamaatin. It is not easily decomposed, is insoluble in water, alcohol, ether, and acetic acid, but readily soluble in alkalies. This is the substance which is found in old clots and extravasations, and not unfre- quently in the walls of some of the smaller vessels, perhaps marking the situation of old haemorrhages. It crystallises in very beautifully defined rhombic crystals, plate VI, fig. 51. It also forms long filaments, and not unfrequently slightly curved elongated crystals collected into bundles, which sometimes take the form of oval or dumb-bell shaped masses, plate VI, figs. 56, 57. This substance seems closely allied to a yellow ciystalline material obtained from the bile. It would indeed be very diffi- cult to distinguish hsematoidin crystals found in clots from some crystals which have been produced in biliary matters. Hsematoidin may therefore be the same substance as that obtained from bile under the names Cholepyrrhin Biliphajin, Bilifulvin, and more recently Bilirubin. Zenker and Funke have shown that from the yellow crystals of buifulvin red crystals of hsematoidin may be obtained. Hcemin is a substance which was discovered by Teichmann. It is obtained artificially from hsematin and hasmato-crystallin. By the addition of a little glacial acetic acid to a small portion of clot of blood, the haimin is produced and crystallises in rhombic scales. Hsemin crystals may be thus obtained from the red blood of man and the lower animals. Blood that has been kept for some time yields these crystals as well as fresh blood, and, with care, they may be obtained from the smallest blood spot on clothes, &c, hence this reaction is of value in medico- legal inquiries, but, as a test, it is less delicate than the spec- trum analysis already referred to. Hsemin crystals from the human subject, pig, toad, and goldfinch are represented in fig 55. Extractive Matters.—It is probable that the so-called extrac- tive matter of blood consists of substances which result during