215 CONNECTIVE TISSUE. the nuclei and delicate fibres continuous with them embedded in a more or less fibrous connective are, in many cases, the remains of nerve fibres which have been active at an earlier period of life, and that the matrix in which they are embedded and which corresponds to the so-called tubular membrane, results from the changes which have taken place in them as they have advanced hi age. In the dura mater, the coats of small veins undergo gradual thickening, until converted into solid bundles of fibrous tissue, and many have been seen with an exceedingly narrow cavity in the centre corresponding to the calibre of the vessel. This is another way in which solid cords of fibrous tissue may result. There are other cord-like fibres in connection with some of the tissues of the frog, and which may also be detected in man and the higher animals, which are a little like those just de- scribed, but are formed in a very different manner. These are destitute of the peculiar fibres which resist the action of acetic acid above alluded to. Their mode of development may be clearly traced in the cutis of the frog. Numerous oval nuclei are seen undergoing division which occurs transversely and longitudinally, as in the formation of tendon already described. These are, in fact, bundles of tendinous fibres of the cutis. It may be desirable that we should next offer a few obser- vations upon certain fallacious appearances which may result from the method of preparing specimens of healthy tissues, and which have been a fertile source of erroneous generalization. The smaller blood-vessels, both arteries and veins, when much stretched, appear as thin solid cords. In many specimens we have examined, had not the vessels been previously injected with transparent injection which could be traced up to one end of the apparent solid cord, and away from the other, the stretched transparent tube would certainly have been regarded as a solid curd of fibrous connective tissue. The nuclei which belonged to the vessel may be easily mistaken for connective tissue cor- puscles. Capillary vessels, small ducts, the membranous tubes of certain gland textures from which the ephithelium has been removed, resemble very closely certain solid cords of connective tissue. The finer nerve fibres when stretched and pressed, have been mistaken for connective tissue, but when such fibres can be traced for a sufficient distance and proved to be continuous,