NOT PROCESSES OF A "CELL." 253 ciili in bone for that part of the canaliculus nearest to the lacuna is the last that is formed,-whereas if the canaliculus were a process of the bioplasm, that portion nearest to the bioplasm must be first developed. In cases in which a portion of a lacuna with part of its canaliculi are detached from bone tissue which has been de- calcified, it is probable that the circumstance is correctly explained as follows :—The inmost layer of tissue constituting the wall of the lacuna and of its canaliculi differs in consistence and resisting- property from that which is external; not that this tissue is developed separately from the general mass of the bone texture. Its greater hardness is probably due to its veiy slow formation as in the case of the so-called wall of the dentinal tube which affords another instance of the same sort of artificial distinction of texture, and which has led to a similar view concerning its formation as a texture distinct from the so-called " intertubular tissue." The size of the lacuna and the diameter of the tubes of the canaliculi diminish as the formation of the osseous tissue ad- vances towards its mature state. How then can the large " cell- wall" of the young lacuna and of the wide canaliculi be the verxj much smaller " cell-wall " of the same lacuna and narrower canaliculi of the fully-formed tissue ? But it is evident on other grounds that the views under examination have resulted from very ai-tificial notions concerning the structure and growth of connective tissue, and these have themselves been based upon erroneous observation, and the belief in a structural analogy between bone and connective tissues, which exist only in the imagination. Canaliculi not processes of a Cell.*—"Although many ob- servers have described and somewhat faintly expressed in their drawings the growth of the processes of the cell above referred to, all agree that they are most difficult to see in healthy growing bone. My own observations compel me to dissent from the statements generally made with regard to these pro- cesses. As far as I have been able to see, neither the cartilage cell, nor the medullary cell, nor the periosteal cell, nor indeed * The observations in this paragraph were first published in my Lectures on the Tissues, in 1861. [L.S.B.J See also "Archives of Medicine," No. XVII. 1870. S 2