39 BY NATURAL SELECTION. organisms descended from the same primary stock. The modi- fying influences of external circumstances, climate, food, tem- perature, acting through infinite time, and varying remarkably in places remote from one another, and in the same places, in successive epochs, will undoubtedly account for changes in character. Peculiarities thus arising, it is obvious may be further developed or diminished, according as the conditions by -which they were induced persist, or become replaced by new ones. Although Mr. Darwin himself does not attempt to ex- plain how many of these peculiarities arose, some seem to have regarded them as the result of accident occurring at a veiy early period of embryonic life, while many, who do not seem to admit that the supposed original simple living form, or forms, were endowed with any internal powers whatever at the time of their origin, attribute them to the influence of external cir- cumstances alone. By selective breeding, in certain cases, for many generations, very diflerent forms undoubtedly result, so different, indeed, that a superficial observer might consider them at least as distinct as many creatures, admitted upon all hands, to be truly distinct species ; and if the same modifying causes continued, it is difficult to conceive to what extent the modifications might proceed. It is urged there is no Hmit to the continuance and augmentation of changes thus induced. But all the instances hitherto adduced differ from true species in one very important particular. Members of different species seldom breed with one another, and in the few instances in which this does take place, the resvdting mules or hybrids, if they are not absolutely barren, never breed with mules of the same kind, so that there is this - most important fact opposed to the application of conclusions arrived at from observations upon varieties of one or more domestic species to the production of the various and un- doubtedly distinct species of animals and plants now existing. The offspring of mere varieties is fertile, and they breed one with another, and there seems no limit to the varieties that may be produced in certain cases, but for this reason they must be considered varieties and not species. It must not, however, be forgotten that the tendency to vary under altered conditions is not manifested in very many species of existing animals. The slightest alteration in external