OF ADIPOSE TISSUE. 303 and its appropriation. The so-called wall of the adipose vesicle is therefore formed in accordance with the mode of production of formed material generally. But the wall of the adipose vesicle is of excessive tenuity, and readily permeable to fluid in both directions, so as to allow for the very free passage of nutrient material to the bioplasm within and that of fluid resulting from the changes of the bioplasm in the opposite direction towards the blood. In this way the rapid increase and removal of adipose material is rendered possible. But the mode of development of fat may be studied in other textures besides the adipose tissue itself. Thus, in con- nective tissue it is sometimes found that fatty matter is formed in the bioplasm of the connective tissue corpuscle, and an elementary part at length results which closely resembles an ordinary fat cell. Some connective tissue corpuscles from the frog are repre- sented in fig. 195, plate XX, magnified 700 diameters. In the upper one an oil-globule is seen, and in many parts of the preparation from which the drawing has been made, connective tissue corpuscles were seen which illustrated every stage of change up to the formation of a fat cell, resembling that of ordinary adipose tissue. Some observers, indeed, consider that the adipose tissue is not a distinct texture at all, but that the fat cell is developed from the corpuscles of connective tissue—a view which is cer^ tainly erroneous, for, in many cases, at an early period of development, collections of bioplasts can be detected without difficulty, in relation with which not a trace of connective tissue can be found; while around the vessels of the mesentery of young animals the bodies in question are seen as well as the corpuscles of the connective tissue of the mesentery, but quite distinct from them. While, therefore, it is certain that the connective tissue corpuscle, the cartilage, and some other elementary parts, may be transformed into fat cells, it is also an unquestionable fact that, in the development of adipose tissue special bioplasts are concerned which are quite distinct from those engaged in the formation of connectives tissue. The bioplasm of cartilage in highly fed animals often pro- duces oil globules which accumulate in the so-called cartilage cell, and the bioplasm becomes pushed to one side, and so