GRANULES AND GLOBULES. GO some peculiar inherent power, than that each selects from a com- mon fluid those particular materials most nearly corresponding to the substance to be formed, and causes them to combine. The constituents of the tissues are not constituents of the blood which are merely selected and separated from it, but they are actually formed through the agency of the germinal or living matter. The formative power of this germinal or living matter seems to be of far greater importance than its power of selection. Indeed, tlris supposed selective power, considered by some sufficient to account for the observed facts, has been assumed rather than proved to be one of the most important properties of the cell. Granules, Globules, Fibres, Membranes.—In certain textures, and suspended in the fluids of the animal body, different struc- tural elements may be observed which have received definite names. Granules are minute particles which exhibit no definite form or magnitude when examined under very high magnifying powers. Granules are represented in plate I. fig. 1. Globules are small bodies of spherical or oval form, composed throughout of the same substance, exhibiting a clear centre and a distinct outline, the apparent thickness of which varies according as the medium in which the globule is placed differs in refractive power from the material of which the globule itself is composed. So that the outline of the same globule may appear to be very thick and black in water, and as a very thin line in oil, turpentine, or Canada balsam. Granules and globules vary in chemical com- position. They may be composed of albuminous matter, fatty matter, or earthy matter, and these substances may be distin- guished by the application of chemical tests.* Globules are represented in plate I. fig. 2. A very good idea of the general appearance of globules may be formed by examining a drop of milk under a magnifying power of 200 diameters. Fibres may appear as exceedingly fine lines, the diameter of which cannot be measured, or as distinct cylindrical threads, ox flattened bands, having a definite diameter. The fibres may be. straight, or wavy, or much curved. They may be arranged parallel t© one another or they may cross one another at every * Globules of albuminous matter are rendered transparent by acetic acid and are dissolved by potash and soda. Fat globules are soluble in ether and not altered by acetic acid. Globules of earthy matter arc dissolved by acids but are not changed by alkalies.