129 EXTRACTIVE AND SALINE MATTERS. the decay and disintegration of the blood corpuscles, and their resolution into various definite compounds. These indefinite extractive matters probably pass off in an altered form in the urine and other secretions almost as fast as they are produced, for the quantity of extractive matter in normal blood is very small, scarcely amounting to more than *5 or '6 per cent., but in certain morbid conditions a much larger proportion is found. Of the saline constituents of the blood taking part directly in the nutrition of tissues, or subservient thereto, probably the chlo- rides and alkaline and earthy phosphates are the most important. The chlorides increase the fluidity of an albuminous fluid, and I probably facilitate the access of the nutrient pabulum to the . germinal matter of the cell. In all cases in -which cell-develop- : ment is going on actively a large quantity of common salt is present. During the development of the normal tissues in the ( embiyo, and during the multipHcation of the masses of germinal I matter in disease, as in pneumonia, the formation of abscess, in ; cancer, and other morbid states, characterised by rapid cell I growth, chloride of sodium is to be detected in considerable : proportion. It is doubtful if the alkaline phosphates are j devoted to nutrition, althougb there can be no doubt they are •I of service in giving to the serum an alkaline reaction, and are, [ J perhaps, to some extent, concerned in the absorption of car- \ bonic acid and other changes. The greater part of the phos- I phate in the blood is probably derived from the bread and meat A taken in the food. The earthy phosphate of lime which forms j 3"5 per cent, of the ash of blood is an important substance. I Iron should also be enumerated among the saline constituents ilof the blood, of service in the nutritive process, but we are loot yet acquainted with the exact part it plays in the chemistry I if the body. The foregoing are probably the constituents of -11 .he blood which take part in the nutrition of the various tex- I ures, and from them the chemical compounds found in the \ issues and entering into the composition of the various secre- i I ions, are alone formed. There are many other substances in the blood, which robably result from the action of oxygen upon certain of the II onstituents of that fluid or of the tissues, and are poured into j he blood prior to their further oxidation and ultimate removal ftlrom the organism by the agency of various excretory organs. K