EPITHELIAL CELLS. 80 the vascular surface, while at the same time their formed material becomes more condensed and less permeable to nutrient matter. Hence each entire cell ceases to increase in size. But as the mass of germinal matter still undergoes conversion into formed material, it becomes smaller as the cell advances in age, hg. 22, d. So that it is possible to judge of the age of a cell, irrespective of its size, by the relative amount of its component substances. In old cells there is much formed material in pro- portion to the germinal matter, while young cells seem to be composed almost entirely of the latter substance. In veiy old cells the small portion of germinal matter still unconverted into formed material, dies, and the cell having by this time arrived at the surface, is cast off, a mass of perfectly passive lifeless formed material. It must not, however, be supposed, that formed material always exhibits the firm character of that present in the epithelial cell upon the surface of the skin and some mucous membranes. [Soluble formed material may be produced in vast quantity from certain cells, which appear to undergo but very slight change. Liver cells are represented in fig. 23, a, b, c, d. These, in health, are surrounded with a thick layer of veiy soft formed material, the outer part of which is gradually becoming dissolved and disintegrated, and probably oxidised; part passes off in the form of very soluble biliary constituents, while part is resolved into the albuminous matter of the cell, and amyloid matter, which probably in part becomes converted into sugar. Still even in this case, there is a formation of new ceUs and a casting off of old ones, proceeding in the same definite direc- tion as in the case of the epithelium of the surface, but each individual cell, probably, lives for a much longer period of time. In figs. 24, 25 and 26, columnar cells of epithelium are represented. The one from the mouth of the snake, in fig. 24, takes part in the secretion of that slimy mucus which is formed in such abundance in the mouths of many reptiles. Nutrient matter is taken up from the blood by the deep surface of the cell. This becomes living matter, and some of the particles of the latter upon the distal aspect, at a, become formed material, which pushes that which was produced before it, towards the mouth of the cell, at b. Straight lines are seen passing towards the extremity, and the movement of the particles, and