0 ORGANIC COMPOUNDS. complex organic compounds. It is therefore not surprising that the attempts of chemists to produce them by artificial processes should have met with so little success. No one has succeeded in the formation by synthesis of albumen, fibrine, or any of those substances (as for example, the constituent of white fibrous tissue), of which the greater part of the bodies of animals is composed. Not even starch, or the cellulose of the very lowest simplest vegetable organisms has been prepared by synthesis in the laboratory. Indeed, it is veiy questionable whether any of those substances which may be considered as the first or immediate result of vital actions will ever be produced elsewhere than in the living organism. Of late years a vast number of those substances which result from the action of oxygen upon compounds formed in animal and vegetable organisms have been made in the labora- tory from inorganic matter. The formation of urea, a second- ary organic comjwund, has been effected by Wohler from the cyanate of ammonia, by depriving it of a little ammonia through the action of heat. And it must be admitted, as no unimportant step in the synthesis of organic compounds, that nitrogen gas has been found to unite with charcoal, under the influence of carbonate of potassa at a red heat. The cyanide of potassium, which is thus formed, yields ammonia, when decomposed by water; so that cyanogen, and through cyanogen, ammonia, can be primarily derived from then- respective elements contained in the inorganic world. Allantoin, an analogous compound to urea, formic, oxalic, glycolic, lactic, butyric, leucic, oleic, and a number of other organic acids, have likewise been artificially produced. No compound alhed to albumen has yet been prepared arti- ficially, but many substances bearing to it much the same relation as urea, have been produced. In short, the substances already formed in the laboratory by synthesis, correspond with those which are produced by the chemical action of oxygen upon products resulting from the disintegration of more complex chemical substances. They are allied rather to the substances included in the secondary compounds, than to the group of proximate principles. They are the results of a long series of chemical changes occurring in the organism, and are so far removed from the actual constituents of the tissues, and from the substances which immediately result from the death of