71 OF THE TISSUES OF THE HITMAN BODY. Of the Tissues generally.—The first texture enumerated in this table is an example of the simplest form of membrane. Its principal character is extension; but as to the arrangement of its ultimate particles nothing is known; for, under the highest powers of the microscope it appears homogeneous, that is, without visible limits to its particles, or, at most, irregularly and very indistinctly granular. The capsule of the lens, the posterior layer of the cornea, the tiriniferous tubes, and the walls of many "cells" are composed of it; and it enters into the formation of muscle, nerve, and the adipose and tegumentary tissues. It is not peculiar to living beings, for a structureless fibre or membrane may be produced artificially. The filamentous tissues are extensively used for connecting different parts, or for associating the elements of other tissues. The ligaments of joints, for instance, are composed of the white or yellow fibrous tissues; and areolar or connective tissue surrounds and connects the elementary parts of nerves and muscles, accompanies and supports the blood-vessels, and unites the tegumentary tissues to their subjacent parts or organs. Under the title compound membranes we include those expan- sions, which form the external integument of the body, and are continued into the various internal passages, which, by their involutions, contribute to form the various secreting organs or glands. These are composed of the simple homogeneous mem- brane, covered by epidermis or epithelium, and resting upon a layer of vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue in great variety; and they constitute the skin, and mucous membranes, with the various glandular organs which open upon their surface. To these, we may add those remarkable membranes, com- posed of areolar tissue and a thin indusium of epithelium, which are employed as mechanical aids to motion. These are the serous membranes which line the great cavities of the body, and the synovial membranes, which are interposed between the articular extremities of the bones in certain joints, or are con- nected with and facilitate the motions of tendons. The tissues which compose the fourth class have no common character, except their adherence, in the adult state, to the primitive cellular structure, and then analogy in that particular with the vegetable tissue. Although a certain agreement, in morphological characters, allows these textmes to be grouped