221 ARTICULAR CARTILAGE. Fig. 125. arrangement, become disposed in clusters, or rows, the ends of which are directed towards the ossifying part. These and other changes will be described in the next chapter. In articular cartilage the cells are oval or roundish, often disposed in small sets of 2, 3, or 4, irregularly disseminated through a nearly homogeneous matrix, which is more abundant than in the last- named variety; fig. 125, A. The cells mea- sure from j^L- to sis of au inch. The " nuclei " are for the most part small. In the interior part of the cartilages of en- crustation we usually find the cells assum- ing more or less of a linear direction, and pointing towards the surface; fig. 125, B. This arrangement is probably connected with a corresponding peculiarity of tex- ture of the intercellular substance, but which it is more difficult to distinguish; for these specimens have a disposition to fracture in a regular manner along planes vertical to the surface, and the broken surface is striated in the same direction. Articular cartilage, from the head . - . of the Humerus —Vertical sections: r4 ear its deep or attached surface, arti- section close to the surface, a. "r Tii iB" Section far in the interior.— cular cartilage blends gradually with the Magnified 320 diameters, bone it invests. The cells in the neighbourhood are surrounded with a sprinkling of fine opaque granules, which seem to be a mdimentary deposit of bone. The true bone dips unevenly into the substance of the cartilage. A pavement of nucleated epithelial particles has been de- scribed by Henle to exist on the free surface of articular car- tilage. In the foetus this may be readily seen; but in the adult we have failed to detect it, even in perfectly fresh specimens, and notwithstanding great care. The articular cartilage of the adult is naked in the cavity of the joint, and very gradually wears away by friction as age advances. An irregularity of surface, like that represented in fig. 125, a, often exists, and seems to show that the epithelial covering ceases when the part becomes subject to friction and pressure. Cells, too, are often seen close to this surface, and even partly projecting from it; appearances clearly indicative of attrition. Q 2