OF INSTINCT. 47 directly followed by certain states or affections of our mind; certain states or affections of our mind are directly followed by certain states of our bodily organs. The nerve of sight, for example, is affected in a certain manner; vision, winch is an affection, or state of the mind, is its consequence. I will to move my hand; the hand obeys my will so rapidly, that the motion, though truly subsequent, seems almost to accompany my volition, rather than to follow it."* And in all the inferior animals, possessed of like organs, there can be no doubt that sensations may be produced similar to those which arise in the human mind. In many of them, indeed, the sense of sight, hearing, or smell, seems much more acute than in man, and affords examples of a beautiful and pro- vidential provision for the peculiar sphere which the creatures are destined to occupy. The unerring precision of the beast or bird of prey in pouncing upon its victim—the accuracy with which the hound tracks by its scent the object of its pursuit—or the quickness with which most of our domestic animals detect sounds and judge of then direction, are familiar illustrations of the superiority of these senses in animals whose general organi- zation is inferior to that of man. There are few animals, however small and insignificant, in which we cannot recognize evidence of a controlling and direct- ing will. But even in those few, in which voluntary movements are not distinctly to be discerned, the presence of a special system of organs, with which in the higher animals volition and sensation are associated, namely, a nervous system, serves as a characteristic distinction from plants. A power of perception, and a power of volition, together constitute om simplest idea of mind; the one excited through certain corporeal organs, the other acting on the body. Throughout the greatest part of the animal creation mental power exists, ranging from this its lowest degree—a state of the blindest instinct, prompting the animal to search for food— to the docility, sagacity, and memory of the brute; and to its "highest state, the reasoning powers of man. The phenomena of mind, even in their simplest degree of development, are so distinct from anything which observation teaches us to be produced by material agency, that we are * Dr. Brown. Philosophy of the Human Mind, p. 106.