OF YELLOW ELASTIC TISSUE. 203 5. What appears to be an ultimate fibre of such a tissue as tlie ligamentum nuchee is not really so. It may be readily torn into very much finer fibres. In the case of young fibres, the nuclei are observed to be wider than the fibres themselves. After the elastic tissue has been formed, it gradually loses water and contracts, and the diameter of the fibre must necessarily be less than that of the nucleus up to a certain period of its growth. As the fibre grows in thickness, however, the " nucleus" is seen at its side just as in tendon. One of the thick fibres of the liga- mentum nuchas with "nucleus," therefore, corresponds to one of the small bundles of fibrillated tissue of tendon with its " nucleus." Compare figs. 103, 108, pi. XII., with fig. 100, pi. XI. Fibres of Elastic Tissue tohich are not formed directly from Nuclei.—We have already seen that fibres closely resembling elastic tissue are embedded in a delicate transparent matrix with undoubted nerve fibres, and we have been able to trace fibres in various transitional conditions, from the nerve : fibre to a structure resembling a fibre of yellow elastic tissue. There are, in mucous membranes, in the papilla? of touch and taste, outside the sarcolemma of muscle, and in other I textures, fine fibres which form networks closely resembling the 'fibres of elastic tissue in general appearance, which are not iformed from cells or nuclei, but which must be regarded as the tremains of tissues, especially nerve fibres and vessels which \were functionally active at an earlier period of life.* In yellow fibrous tissue, from many situations, prolongations Icof germinal matter may be demonstrated as in other textures, I but we have completely failed to prove the tubular character I either of the fine or coarse yellow elastic fibres. Over and over |i igain the nuclei amongst the fibres of yellow elastic tissue have jloeen stained with carmine, as shown in figs. 103, 108, pi. XII, Iwhile not a single fibre exhibited the slightest alteration. I nstead of the nuclei leading towards the central part of the [libre, they are invariably seen to be connected with the surface. Iltfot a trace of germinal matter (nucleus) is to be found in the lliubstance of any fibre of elastic tissue. It is therefore not jlnrobable that these fibres at any period of their development jr-eally consist of tubes for the transmission of nutrient juices. * On the distribution of tho nerve fibres to the mucous membrane of the epiglottis II? man.—"Archives of Medicine," No. XII, page 250. P