171 FIBROUS CONNECTIVE. and a very close relationship between them must be maintained throughout life or the free action of the gland would be impaired. Moreover, as the gland which already actively per- forms its functions grows, new nerve fibres and new capillaries must be developed around the uriniferous tubes. The position which a capillary or an ultimate nerve fibre occupies at an early period will at a later time be the situation where a bundle of nerve fibres, or small arteries and veins must be placed. The structural changes involved in all these alterations are con- siderable. Old capillaries and nerve fibres must be removed as new ones are developed to take their place, and all the original . gland cells will have disappeared probably long before the I uriniferous tubes have acquired their fully formed characters. iBut these structural elements are not completely removed. There will remain a small quantity of matter which cannot be t taken up by the ordinary processes at work. This is no doubt capable of being removed like every texture in the body, but iits complete removal would probably involve the destruction of tthe gland, while its almost complete removal permits of the rcontinuous development of the latter and does not interfere swith its continuous action. The conditions of existence in the ?ase of man and the higher vertebrata, with a few unimportant exceptions only, permit the very gradual but not absolutely complete removal and renovation of tissues. In insects, the state of things is very different, and in their i xtures there is an almost complete absence of connective irissue. The organs and tissues of the larva are entirely re- moved, while new organs and textures of the imago or perfect nsect are laid down afresh and developed ab initio, instead of oeing built up upon those first formed. Such complete change, aowever, necessitates a state of existence during which action rr function remains in complete abeyance. In the pupa or ihrysalis period of life, functional activity is reduced to a mini- num, and nothing is allowed to interfere with the develop- mental and formative processes. The new and more perfect eing which is evolved does not probably retain a trace of the jltructure of its earlier and less perfect state. Although the tllements of matter in the imago are, of course, those of which i I le larva and pupa were composed, they have been as com- pletely re-arranged as they would have been had they been N