140 URIC ACID—HIPPURIO ACID—LEUCINE. Uric Acid (C5H4N403), plate VIII, fig. 71, is a substance less highly oxidised than urea, and there are reasons for believing that the latter is formed from it by oxidation. The proportion of uric acid increases under various conditions, in which the oxidising operations are interfered with, or imperfectly performed. It has been detected by Dr. Garrod in the blood and other fluids of gouty patients, in decided quantity, and it may be regarded as one of the products of incomplete oxidation. In birds and certain reptiles the renal secretion consists principally of salts of uric acid. By the formation of urate of ammonia a considerable proportion of the waste carbon is removed by the kidneys of birds, instead of nearly the whole being exhaled by the pul- monary surface. Dr. Odling remarks that the lungs of birds are required to discharge only -J- instead of of the carbon resulting from the metamorphosis of nitrogenous tissue, as in animals. " On this view, the comparatively large kidneys of birds and insects will have reference not only to the absolute amount of tissue metamorphosed, but also to the relative increase in the proportion of carbon excreted by their kidneys to that excreted by their lungs." Hippuric Acid (C9H9N03) is found in large quantity in the mine of the horse and many graminivorous animals, and seems to be formed under the conditions which, in carnivora, lead to the production of uric acid. Hippuric acid is formed in the human organism, and is always present in the urine. Accord- ing to Weismann and Hallwachs, nearly thirty-five grains are excreted by a healthy man in twenty-four hours. The re- searches of Kiihne and Hallwachs render it probable that hippuric acid is produced from the glycocinc formed in the liver. Crystals of hippuric acid are figured in plate VIII, fig. 72. Leucine (C6H13N02) and Tyrosine (C9HnN03). Among the substances resulting from the oxidation and decomposition of albuminous matters in the body, and capable of being formed in the laboratory artificially, are two bodies, leucine and tyrosine, which are of great interest. They may be obtained from all substances allied to albumen or gelatine by prolonged boiling with mineral acids or alkalies. Dr. Odling has well remarked that these two apparently opposite processes are the same in principle. " In each case the acid, or alkali, merely enables the protein or gelatinoid substance to react with water