AND FORMED STATE OF MATTER. 89 germinal matter—new nuclei may be developed within it, new nucleoli within them so that ordinary germinal matter may become formed material, its nucleus growing larger and taking its place. The original nucleolus now becomes the nucleus, and new nucleoli make then appearance in what was the original nucleolus. The whole process consists of evolution from centres, and the production of new centres within pre- existing centres. Zones of colour, of different intensity, are often observed in a cell coloured with carmine. The outermost or oldest, or that which is losing its vital powers, and becoming converted into formed material, being very slightly coloured, the most central part, or the nucleus, although furthest from the colouring solution, exhibiting the greatest intensity of colour. These points are illustrated in plate III, fig. 36, and some other figures. Germinal matter, in a comparatively quiescent state, is not unfrequently entirely destitute of nuclei, but they sometimes make then* appearance if the mass be more freely supplied with nutrient matter. This fact may be noticed in the case of the connective tissue corpuscles, and the masses of germinal matter connected with the walls of vessels, nerves, muscular tissue, epithelium, &c, which often exhibit no nuclei (or according to some, nucleoli), but soon after these bodies become supplied with an increased quantity of pabulum, several small nuclei make then appearance in all parts of the germinal matter. So far from nuclei being formed first, and the other elements of the cell deposited around them, they make their appearance in the substance of a pre-existing mass of germinal matter', as has been already stated. The true nucleus and nucleolus are not composed of special constituents differing from the germinal matter, nor do they perform any special operation. They consist of living germinal matter. Small oil-globules, which invariably result from post-mortem changes in any germinal matter, have often been mistaken for nuclei and nucleoli. Of the increase of Cells.—Several distinct modes of cell increase or multiplication have been described, but in all cases the germinal matter divides, and is the only material in the cell actively concerned in the process of multiplication. The process of division may, however, take place according to several different plans :—1. The parent mass of germinal matter may simply divide into two equal parts, apparently in