DEVELOPMENT OF TENDON. 103 tions given in page 62, the true explanation will, we think, at once occur to the observer, who will probably be much sur- prised at the great vascularity of the texture. He will find numerous capillary vessels arranged around the fibrous bundles, as in the case of the elementary fibres of muscle. As the tendon gradually becomes fully developed, these vessels waste, and, as it seems to us, the delicate encircling fibres which have been described by so many authors alone remain to mark the channels in which blood once freely circulated.* Sketch of the Changes occuring during the Development of Tendon and Allied Tissues.—Regarding the oval nuclei as the masses of germinal matter, and the fibrous structure which is in all cases connected with these, as the formed material, it is not difficult to account for the actual appearances observed in the different forms of fibrous tissue. At an early period of development these tissues like all others are composed almost entirely of germinal matter. The small masses increase, divide and subdi- vide in the soft imperfectly developed formed material which exists between them at this early peiiod. In some tissues the masses of germinal matter soon become quite detached and entirely separated from each other, in which case the tissue will consist of formed material with the separate masses of germinal matter embedded in it, as cartilage. In others the masses of ger- minal matter divide in one particular direction, and separation of the resulting masses occurs laterally, while longitudinally they still remain intimately connected with one another. As the tissue advances in age, and the masses of germinal matter become separated from each other by gradually increasing distances, the formed material accumulates in parallel layers between the oval masses of germinal matter. These are con- nected by distinct lines of germinal matter and imperfectly developed formed material, and laterally, by finer and less obvious lines produced in the same manner. In those cases in * I have demonstrated in very many tissues the fact that fibres having the reac- tion of yellow elastic fibres result from the wasting of vessels and fine nerve fibres. In the bladder and mesentery of a starved frog, the process of degeneration may be actually observed step by step, and in the serous pericardium and peritoneum of a very young mammalian animal positive evidence of a similar chango may bo obtained. The capillaries gradually transmit less and less blood, and as they contract in diameter tho walls become more distinct. - Slowly the cavity becomes completely obliterated and an apparently solid cord of elastio tissue alone remains.—(L. S. B.) -