THE DEVELOPMENT 300 made out in auy young mammal at the time of its birth as during the earlier periods of development. And there is this advantage in conducting the examination at this later time, —that fully-formed adipose tissue may be contrasted with the same texture in its embryonic state in the same micro- scopic specimen, for the development of this tissue continues long after birth. Nay, in certain cases it may be studied in an embryonic condition even in the adult. Thus we have obtained excellent specimens which illustrate eveiy stage of the process, taken from the fully formed frog. PI. XX, figs. 196, 198. Indeed, in hybernating animals new adipose tissue is formed just prior to each recurrent period of hybernation, but it is probable that in some instances fatty matter is also reformed in the very same old cells from which it had been previously removed. It would be supposed that a tissue which altered its volume so quickly and to so great an extent as this, would have a very intimate relationship with the blood from which the elements entering into its formation are derived,—and this is the case, for adipose tissue is very largely supplied with blood, and in corpulent persons who make fat fast, the greater part of the blood of the body is probably distributed to the adipose tissue, and other tissues and organs suffer in nutrition. The muscles become weak, and waste, and the nerves are impaired. Vessels, arteries, capillaries, and veins, are developed pari passu with adipose tissue. And there is not an instance among vertebrate animals of the occurrence of adipose tissue destitute of vessels. The vascularity of the medulla or marrow of bones is remarkable. The rate at which adipose tissue grows, in certain cases, is very striking, and probably the animal in which it is produced most quickly is the young pig, whose adipose tissue doubles in weight in the course of a very few weeks. In the meshes of the capillary network of very young adipose tissue may be seen the little masses of bioplasm, which are concerned in the production of fat. These, at a still earlier period, are in contact with the external surface of the vascular wall. It certainly is not possible to determine by any appear- ance manifested by the numerous bioplasts in the immediate neighbourhood of the vessels, which of them are to take part in the development of new capillaries, and which are to become