248 OP THE FORMATION The diameter of the pores is from -^-^^ to -^1^ of an inch. In growing bone the canaliculi arc probably occupied by the original matrix of the cartilage or organic texture, but in bone which has ceased to grow the organic material contracts and becomes dry. The canaliculi are in that case true tubes, with- out any soft material occupying their cavity. Air is sometinn■« found in the lacunas and canaliculi even of recent bone, pi. XIX, fig. 184 ; and there is reason to think that during life this is the case in certain parts where the osseous tissue is fully foi-med and old. The osseous tissue thus studded by thousands of flattened lacunas, which lie for the most part in planes parallel to the surface, has a decided disposition to split up into lamince, fol- lowing the same direction. This is more evident in the bones of old persons, and may be promoted by maceration in dilute acid. Tt is most apparent where the mass of material between two vascular surfaces is great, and the series of lacunse nume- rous. This lamellated structure, there is reason to think, is due to the manner in which the development and growth of the osseous tissue proceed. See page. 265. Of the formation of Lacuna- and Ca/naliculi.—The investi- gation of the formation of lucunae and canaliculi in growing bone presents difficulties, and many of the conclusions which have been arrived at upon the matter have been based rather upon hypothesis than upon actual observation. It is remarkable that some of the views entertained upon this subject are opposed to actual facts which may be readily demonstrated by a careful anatomist. It is desirable, therefore, that we should study the changes which may be observed to take place in simple cartilage during its conversion into bone. Now, in the frog, the phenomena occur much more slowly than in mammalia, while the elements of the tissue are upon a larger scale, and in properly prepared specimens we can trace the various stages through which the cartilage tissue passes in its conversion into bone with great accuracy. If the reader will attentively examine the figures referred to, a very short de- scription will enable him to grasp the actual facts. Fig. 148, pi. XVII, represents a very thin section of cartilage at the edge of one of the cranial bones of a common frog, not quite