HETEROGENESIS. 17 in the minutest and the least conspicuous forms of vegetable and animal life ; and thus the hypothesis, which assumes that living objects may arise by a sort of conjunction of the inorganic elements of decomposing organic matter, becomes more and more untenable. Of Spontaneous Generation or Hcterogenesis.—Of late years the doctrine of spontaneous generation has been revived in more than one form, but, the conclusions in favour of such an origin of living beings are unsupported by sufficient evidence. Nor -would it be possible were our highest mag- nifying powers increased tenfold, or even a hundred, or a thousand fold, to see the actual particles of matter combining to form part of a living structure. Those who assert that they have seen particles aggregating together to form a living being profess to have actually observed by a comparatively low power that which certainly cannot be seen under a power magnifying ten times more, and with advantages of demonstration which were not at their disposal. Observations made by the use of the highest magnifying powers, and great improvements in the means of investigation not only render the doctrine of spontaneous generation less and less tenable, but demonstrate the origin of living beings from pre-existing ones in so many instances that the most scep- tical ought to be convinced " that every living particle comes from a pre-existing living particle," " Omne vivum e vivo." How beautiful is the provision which this power, possessed by organized bodies, of generating others, affords, for preserving a perpetual succession of living beings over the globe! The command, "Increase and multiply," has never ceased to be fulfilled from the moment it was uttered. Eveiy horn, nay, every minute, brings into being countless myriads of plants and animals, to supply in lavish profusion the havoc which death is continually making; and it is impossible to suppose that the earth can cease to be in this way replenished, until the same Almighty Power, that gave the command, shall see fit to oppose some obstacle to its fulfilment. In addition to this power of propagation, organized bodies enjoy one of conservation and reproduction of parts. Solu- tions of continuity, the loss of particular textures, whether resulting from injury or from disease, can be repaired. Parts, c