49 OF HUMAN AND COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. its habitation, the sparrow its nest, the bee its comb, neither better nor worse than they did five thousand years ago." In plants there is no nervous system; there are no mental phenomena. The motions of plants correspond in some degree with those movements of animals in which neither conscious- ness nor will participate. Some of the movements undoubtedly result from physical changes produced directly in the part moved. Amongst the most interesting examples are those of the Mimosa pudica, the Dioncea muscipula, and the Berberis. But movements of another kind, as the movements in the interior of the cells of Vallisneria Tradescantia, &c, depend upon changes occurring in the living matter, the nature of which is not yet understood. These movements will be discussed in another place. OP ANATOMICAL INVESTIGATION. It is the province of physiology to investigate the manner in which the functions of living beings are carried out; and this investigation naturally involves the examination of their mechanism, of the chemical constitution, and of the properties of their component textures. The study of anatomy must always accompany that of physiology, on the principle that we must understand the construction of a machine before we can comprehend the way in which it works. The history of phy- siology shows that it made no advance until the progress of anatomical knowledge had unfolded the structure of the body. There is so much of obvious mechanical design in the intimate structure of the various textures and organs, that the dis- covery of that structure opens the most direct road to the deteiToination of then uses. That kind of anatomy which investigates structure with a special view to function may be properly designated Physiological Anatomy. In investigating the functions of the human body, the physiologist cannot do better than follow the instructions laid down by Haller in the preface to his invaluable work, "Ele- menta Physiologiae Corporis Humani." The first and most important step towards the attainment of physiological knowledge is, the study of the fabric of the human body. "Et primum," says Haller, " cognoscenda est fabrica corporis humani, cujus pene infinitaa partes sunt. Qui E