THE CELL. 11 the tissue does not depend upon this matter, nor is its function due to it; but no tissue can be produced or be increased without it. There can be no life in the absence of this simple matter. In fact, the tissue does not grow of itself, but new tissue is produced by changes occurring in this soft, plastic matter, and it is added to the tissue which already exists. Neither does the tissue multiply, assimilate, form, or convert, but all these phenomena are effected by the agency of this wonderful simple plastic matter. It is remarkable, that as soon as this matter undergoes conversion into tissue or into any definite chemical compound it loses for ever the active powers above referred to. From this colourless transparent material, then, everything characteristic of a living body is formed, or, in other words, the matter of which all the tissues and substances peculiar to the organism are composed, was once in this state. A mass of any tissue at every age may be divided into elementary parts, each one of which contains a portion of this transparent matter within it. Each one of these elementary parts may be termed a " cell." In some tissues the " cells" can be readily separated from one another, but in others, the outer part or tissue of one " cell" is continuous with that of neighbouring cells. Various forms of cells are represented in Plates I, II, III, and IV, an examination of which will enable the reader to form a clear notion of the structure of the principal kinds. The simplest or most elementary organic form with which we are acquainted consists of a portion of this soft, transparent, colourless matter, surrounded by a layer of matter formed from it, which may be so thin as to be hardly visible. This latter results, in fact, from the action of external conditions upon the most external portion of the mass. Such an elementary part may be less than the ttoWo of an mcn m diameter, and may, we believe, exist so small as to be invisible. Still it is a living, and, in a certain sense, independent organism, capable of increase and endowed with the power of giving rise to other bodies like itself. These wonderful powers, as already stated, reside not in the formed matter upon the surface, but in that within, which is in a formless but living state. The latter may be termed Ger- minal matter. Such is the simple structure of the "cell"—of every cell which