ABSORPTION OF FAT. 305 and have been eollecting for a considerable time, may quickly disappear, in consequence of the fat being absorbed, and its elements applied to assist in the nutrition of tissues whose waste could not occur without consequences very damaging to the organism, and in maintaining the requisite temperature. The adipose tissue may, indeed, be regarded as a sort of storehouse, in which fat is accumulated as long as the body is abundantly supplied with food, from which it may be removed and appro- priated, should a period of scarcity occur. In the winter, when the fat of the fat bodies of the frog are being absorbed, the bioplasm of each vesicle can be seen spread- ing around the fatty matter, which gradually diminishes in amount in consequence of its conversion into bioplasm. On the distal side of the vesicle, phenomena of another kind are proceeding. The bioplasm is there imdergoing change, and becoming resolved into substances, which are immediately taken up by the bioplasm of the blood and blood-vessels. As has been already described (p. 152), all nutritive operations are conducted through the intervention of bioplasm alone. As every kind of fatty material is formed from bioplasm, so its re- moval is effected only through the instrumentality of this living matter. It cannot be removed until it has been again taken up and converted into bioplasm. Moreover, the same bioplasm is instrumental in both operations:—in the one case taking certain constituents from the blood, increasing at their ex- pense, and then undergoing conversion into fatty and other matters:—in the other, growing at the expense of this fatty matter already produced, and then becoming resolved into sub- stances which find their way back again into the blood, and which are at length appropriated in part by other forms of bioplasm of the body. This view has been recently confirmed by Czajewicz, in some observations upon the adipose tissue of rabbits (Keichert and Du Bois Reymond's Archiv., 1866, p. 289). In animals which have become rapidly emaciated, the fat cells of the adipose tissue are seen to be shrunken, and, instead of containing fatty matter, fluid, with some granules and one or two oil globules, are alone found. This interesting fact was first observed by Kolliker. The amount of fat in an individual vesicle may vary from time to time. The processes of forma-