227 SPONGY CARTILAGE. Fw. 128. outer third of the disc : the central portion is occupied by a soft, yielding, pulpy matter, which, when a disc is cut horizontally, rises up considerably above the surrounding level. This soft mass consists of a few bundles of white fibrous tissue (wavy fibres), with numerous cell-like bodies very variable in shape and size, loosely interspersed. It is girt by the surrounding vertical fibrous layers and their int erposedcartilaginous lamella?, and also compressed by the vertebrae between which it is placed; the pulpy matter being separated from immediate con- tact with the surfaces of the vertebrae by the interposition of thin layers of cartilage. In the menisci, the white Elementary 8tructures from an inU„eib£bial di8C ■filTi'nn« tisonp nrprlnTninn + PQ r>nn o.-Two cartilage-cells lying amongst the white fibrous noious tissue pieaommates con- tissw The remainiIls object8 at.e fr0m the central siderablyat then circumferences, while the cartilage chiefly a- bounds in the centre. Those of the knee joint and temporo-maxillary joint are the densest; that of the sterno-clavieular is softer and more cartilaginous. The circumferential fibro-cartilages contain a considerable predominance of fibrous tissue. The non-articular form of fibro-cartilage is found lining the grooves in bones, which lodge tendons; as, for example, the groove for the lodgement of the tibialis posticus. In intimate structure it resembles the articular forms. Reparation and Reproduction.—Fibro-cartilage heals by a new substance of similar texture. Sometimes the union of bone is effected by a material of this kind, in cases where osseous union cannot be obtained. Yellow Elastic or Spongy Cartilage.—The distinctive character of this form of cartilage is, that the formed mateiial consists in great part of fibres somewhat resembling those of yellow elastic tissue, and like these, resisting the action of acetic acid. pulpy substance, and exhibit various forms of cell. In several of these there is an appearance of multiplica- tion by subdivision of the nucleus, and some seem attached by a fibrous tissue. The full meaning of this does' not yet appear.