104 SUBSTANCES RESULTING FROM arranged during the living state, that they may combine to form -water, albuminous matters including fibrin, fatty matters, and salts. Although water may be obtained from every kind of living matter it is doubtful if water in its ordinary condition exists while the matter is alive, for this living matter may be ex- posed to a temperature considerably below the freezing point of water without becoming solid, and it is probable that death must occur before the actual congelation of the germinal matter, or of the water it contains, can take place. The formation of all chemical compounds seems to be con- nected with the death of the germinal matter, and different substances will result according as the death is sudden or gradual, that is, according as the germinal matter dies suddenly en masse or more slowly, particle by particle. And it is probable that in the comparatively slow molecular death, a certain amount of oxygen is taken up at the moment of combi- nation, and this alone would give rise to very different con- binations to those which occur when the living matter is suddenly destroyed, little or no oxygen being present. An alteration in the conditions under which death takes place will be associated with a difference in composition of the materials produced; but it must not be supposed that external condi- tions alone determine either the form, composition or properties of the resulting substances. When germinal matter becomes resolved into formed mate- rial, other compounds are produced besides the special ones which characterise that particular kind of germinal matter; and a product which largely predominates under certain circum- stances may be produced in mere traces under other conditions. For instance, the germinal matter of the liver cell of some animals becomes resolved into amyloid matters and biliary matters with mere traces of fat. In others, fat which accumu- lates seems to form the main portion of the formed material produced. In man, under some circumstances, bile and amyloid appear to be produced; under others, fat seems to be the main product as in the fish. And various secondary morbid changes are brought about according as the formation of fatty, amyloid or saccharine matter predominates. The nature of the pabu- lum doubtless affects the composition of the formed materials