8 OF THE SYNTHESIS OF the (issue which has been formed may not be alive. The chemical compounds which may be obtained from these textures by analysis are devoid of any mechanical arrangement of particles. From these again a great variety of compounds has been obtained by various chemical processes, owing to the tendency which then elements have to form new combinations. By boil- ing starch in dilute acids, it becomes converted into a kind of gum, and starch-sugar; and, in the germination of barley, or of the potato, a peculiar substance is formed, the contact of which with the starch of the barley or potato converts it into sugar. Innumerable examples might be quoted from various vegetable compounds, shewing that the affinity, which holds together the elements of organic substances, is so feeble, that it affords but slight resistance to their entrance into new combinations. The proximate principles of organic substances consist for the most part of three or four of the essential simple elements, and, as many of them contain a large number of atoms, their combining proportion is represented by a veiy high number. Respecting the mode of combination of these elements however, the greatest uncertainty prevails, and it is indeed doubtful if many of the substances which have received special names, as albumen, fibrine, and the like, are really definite chemical sub- stances of fixed composition. Chemists have not yet succeeded in obtaining the majority of these bodies in a state of chemical purity. Secondary Organic Compounds.—From the blood, from the tissues, and from many of the fluids secreted by different organs of the body, by proximate analysis, may be obtained another class of substances derived from the process of destruction of the organic substances entering into the formation of the tissues, blood corpuscles, or gland cells. These have been called secondary organic compounds, and then chemical com- position is far simpler than that of the proximate principles. Urea, uric acid, kreatin, krcatinine, hippuric acid, leucin, tyrosin, are all organic substances, which result from the oxidation and dis- integration of more highly complex organic substances in the organism, and are examples of secondary organic compounds. Of the Synthesis of Organic Compounds.—As has been remarked already, much uncertainty exists in reference to the manner of combination of the simple elements to form the higher and more