260 HAVERSIAN CANALS. Venous canals in the diploe of the cranium.-After Breschct. QUtwaffd flow. In many of the large bones, particularly in the flat and irregular ones, the veins are exceedingly capacious, and occupy a series of tortuous canals of remarkable size and very characteristic appearance. These are well described by Bres- chet in his elaborate work on the venous system; from which the accompanying figure Fll167' (fig. 167) is taken. The canals run, for the most part, in the cancellated structure of the bones, and are lined by a more or less complete layer of com- pact tissue, which itself often contains minute Haversian canals. The veins they contain dis- charge themselves sepa- rately on the surface. The Haversian canals vary in diameter from f° the Tiro °f an inch, or more, the average being about -g^. Their ordinary distance from one another is about -pL^ of an inch. They may be regarded as involutions of the surface of the bone, for the purpose of allow- ing vessels to ramify in its substance in great abundance. It is evident that the cancelli, and even the great medullary canal itself, are likewise involutions of the osseous surface, though for a partly different end. These larger and more irregular cavities in bone may be considered as a dilated form of Haver- sian canal. They contain vessels not only for the nutrition of the thin osseous material forming then walls, but also for the supply of the fat enclosed within them. Thus the true osseous substance may be described as lying in the interstices of avascular membrane, or of a network of blood- vessels. The most interesting points in the minute ana- tomy of bone relate to the mode in which nutrition is provided for in those parts not in immediate contact with the blood- vessels. We have already seen that considerable masses of cartilage derive their nutriment from vessels placed on their exterior only, apparently by a kind of imbibition; but bone, which is of a far harder and denser nature, is unable to imbibe