FORMATION OF YELLOW ELASTIC TISSUE. 201 in the arteries, when numerous fine nerves are seen to ramify amongst the former fibres. This may be proved by examining the larger arteries of any small animal (frog, particularly the hyla, mouse, rat, rabbit.—L. S. B.) Formation of Yellow Elastic Tissue.—With regard to the for- mation of yellow elastic tissue, different views are entertained. In his "Manual," published in 1860, and in former editions, Prof. Kolliker states, that these fibres are formed from cells, and he has given a drawing of " stellate formative cells of fine elastic fibres from the tendo Achillis (!) of a newly-born child." He says, that " in all parts of the embryo which afterwards con- tain elastic tissue, peculiar fusiform or stellate and sharply- pointed cells can be recognized, which, by their coalescence, produce long fibres or networks.* The fibres not unfrequently persist in this condition of stellate anastomosing cells, or con- nective tissue corpuscles (Virchow), as e.g., in the tendons and the cornea, in ligaments and ligamentous discs, in the corium, in mucous membranes," &c. Kolliker agrees therefore with Virchow, in considering that these cells and fibres correspond to the canalicular systems of bones and teeth, and he proposes to call them plasm-cells, and their processes plasm-tnhes, because they are supposed to convey plasm or nutrient juices. In 1861, however, Prof. Kolliker completely abandoned his former views as to the fibres being formed from cells, and now maintains that the cells or nuclei which exist in such number at an early period of development have nothing whatever to do with the formation of the elastic fibres. He differs from Virchow as to the relation of the elastic fibres to the cells, and, so far from believing that they are continuous, maintains that the yellow elastic tissue represents intercellular substance. In the development of the ligamentum nuchae, he says that the cells seen at an early period of development assist in the formation of an interstitial substance. " from which by independent dif- ferentiation both the connective tissue and the elastic fibrous networks proceed." By this term " differentiation," it is implied * It may be remarked here that cells never coalesce during the development of tissue. Cells divide, and the subdivisions separate from each other—a fibre in many cases connecting them. This fibre of course increases in length as the cells become separated farther and farther from each other. Cells neither coalesce, nor do tubes or processes grow away from them and coalesco with tubes or processes from neigh- bouring cells, as has been asserted very positively by some authorities.