INCREASE OP AREOLAR TISSUE 210 the loss of elasticity in the areolar tissue. When this tissue becomes indurated by an effusion of coagulable material, the movements of the parts adjacent are similarly impaired. Where great elasticity is required, the yellow element preponderates; while the white fibrous element abounds in parts demanding tenacity and power of resistance. In all cases the openness of the network is proportioned to the extent of mobility required. Where the meshes are small, the threads composing them branch and anastomose with one another with much greater frequency. The texture of the cutis affords the most characteristic example of this condition. Physical Properties.—These have only been studied hitherto in those situations where the tissue exists in great abundance, as in the subcutaneous fascia, the sheaths of muscles, &c. It has here a whitish hue, especially when steeped in water. It is extensible in all directions, and is very elastic, returning to its original disposition after stretching. In many situations it contains numerous fibres of unstriped or involuntary muscle, passing in different directions, which give to it the property of contractility, and in some of the lower annuals voluntary muscular fibres are associated with it. These are very remark- ably developed in the snout of the pig and hi the nose of the mole, and are found in great number amongst the areolar tissue, beneath the loose parts of the skin of many other smaller annuals (rat, mouse, mole). Nerve fibres are abundantly dis- tributed in it, and its capillary vessels are more numerous than those of tendon. This tissue, like many other soft solids, contains a large quantity of liquid, by which the filaments are kept moist and their physical properties maintained in a normal state. A morbid increase of this fluid in the subcutaneous areolar tissue occasions the condition called oedema and anasarca, which may be known by the skin pitting. Under the pressure of the finger, the fluid is driven into the surrounding areola} or spaces, and a pit is made, but after the pressure is withdrawn the fluid returns slowly and the pit, or depression, disappears. When dried, areolar tissue becomes hard and transparent, but resumes its former state if placed in water. It undergoes the putrefac- tive process very slowly. It yields gelatin by boiling, but this substance is derived from the white fibrous element only.