STRUCTURE OF THE VITREOUS. 181 VITREOUS HUMOUR OF THE EYE. There is still much difference of opinion concerning the structure of this clear transparent tissue which contains more than 99 per cent, of water. Many years ago, one of us (W. Bowman) showed that in the infant at birth the vitreous humour was represented by a structure very much resembling the so-called enamel organ, and composed of elongated cells, with processes partly of a fibrous character radiating from them. Virchow regards the vitreous as an example of mucous tissue, like that just described in the umbilical cord, and considers that in the fully-developed vitreous humour the cells have dis- appeared, leaving only intercellular substance with mucus which he has detected in this structure. Kolliker agrees with us in thinking that at an early period the vitreous is composed of embryonic connective tissue. He considers however that sub- sequently, at least in its inner parts, every trace of this struc- ture disappears, so that it comes to consist of a more or less consistent mucus. The structure of the vitreous and its mode of formation will be understood if fig. 90, pi. X, be referred to. This drawing is from the vitreous at an early period of its development. The adult vitreous appears to be homogeneous, and not even the remains of cell structures or any indication of fibres can be detected in its substance. It is true that some observers have stated that even in the adult, cell structures were to be found in certain parts, and quite recently E. Neumann, of Konigsberg, has convinced himself positively of the existence of cells in the vitreous of adult animals and man. The vitreous closely resembles the transparent tissue which surrounds the ova of the frog and other batrachia. This tissue after having been dried swells up again almost to its original bulk when placed in water. Masses of germinal matter are to be seen in it at an early period of its formation; but when fully formed it seems to be composed of a very delicate tissue, pro- bably the finest fibrous tissue that exists. It contains less than one per cent, of solid matter. Upon the inner surface of the hyaloid membrane, which is continuous with the vitreous, round masses of germinal matter exist even in the adult. These are separated from one another