70 FIBRES—MEMBRANE. possible angle. Not ^infrequently there is an indication of fine lines although no distinct fibres separable from one another can be demonstrated. This is spoken of as a fibrous appear- ance as is represented in fibrous tissue, plate I. fig. 3 a. Membrane.—Membrane may be so perfectly transparent and homogeneous that we are only able to demonstrate its existence by the plaits or folds -which it forms. Sometimes membrane appears granular or exhibits a fibrous appearance, and not unfre- quently calcareous particles are deposited in its substance. Membrane sometimes consists of an insoluble material allied to albumen, but some membranes are composed of a substance •which in its physical and chemical characters agrees with yellow elastic tissue. Clear, transparent, and structureless membrane is represented in plate I. fig. 4. OP THE TISSUES. Although fully developed tissues might be classified accord- ing to the peculiarities of structure they exhibit, the classi- fication would be defective in so many particulars that little advantage could result from the attempt to arrange the tissues of man or those of animals and plants in several artificial groups. Nevertheless such an arrangement as that given below, though far from perfect, may be of some assistance to the student:— TABULAE TITW OF THE TISSUES OF THE HUMAN BODY. 1. Simple membrane, homogeneous, or nearly so, employed alone, or in the formation of compound membranes. 2. Filamentous tissues, the elements of ■which are roal or apparent filaments. 3. Compound membranes, composed hi some cases, of simple membrane, and a layer of cells, of various forms (epithelium or epidermis), in others of areolar or connec- tive tissue aud epithelium only. 4. Tissues -which exhibit a cellular structure in their fully developed state. 5. Tissues hardened by calcareous salts. 6. Compound tissues. a. Composed of two different kinds of tissues of simple structure. I. Tissues composed of material which possesses special endowments. c Tubes for distributing nutrient matter. Examples.—Posterior layer of the cornea.—Capsule of the lens.— Sarcolemma of muscle. White and yellow fibrous tissues.— Areolar or connective tissue. Mucous membrane.—Skin.—True or secreting glands.—Serous and synovial membranes. Cuticle. Nails. Hair.—Gland, pig- ment, and fat cells.—Cartilage. Bone.—Teeth. Connective tissue.—Pibro-cartilage. Certain forms of elastic tissue. Muscle.—Nerve. Blood vessols.—Absorbent vessels.