DIRECTIVE AGENCY—CONSTRUCTIVE FORCE. 31 uninjured cells a power of sympathising with then- less fortunate companions, but they manifest a desire to hasten to afford them active assistance in their difficulty! Such a doctrine is perhaps not more untenable or more unsupported by evidence than that which gives to insoluble inanimate matter the power of exciting increased action in Hving things. In every one of the cases in which this increased action occurs, it may be explained by the increased facility of access of pabulum to the hving matter which is brought about by the so-called irritant or excitant. When a particle of sand, falling upon the conjunctiva, causes the removal of a portion of the outer layers of cells which in the normal state form a smooth membranous investment of uniform thickness, the thickness of this tissue protecting the vessels is diminished at the seat of in- jury, and as a matter of course a larger quantity of nutrient matter will permeate the thin layer which remains in a given time. Again it must be remarked that even in the present day many observers admit the existence of some sort of power or force or agency which directs or controls the operation of the various actions going on in different parts of an organism, and is supposed to exert its influence through cell walls and other tissues, and to be capable of governing and regulating if not determining, the changes which take place in matter situated at some distance, and in the formation of which it has taken no part. Dr. Carpenter speaks of a power manifesting itself in organisms, which, according to him, exerts upon the cells and other structures, as well as upon the forces concerned in their production, a control which may be compared with that exer- cised by the " superintendent builder who is charged with the working out of the design of the architect." The germ supplies the "directive agency" and a distinction is made between directive agency and constructive force, which last is maintained to be but another mode of heat. Dr. Carpenter also speaks of "germinal capacity," but this, according to him, is a condition which, although transmitted from one organism to another, has its parallel in the inorganic world, in the fundamental clifference in properties which constitute the difference between one substance, whether elementary or compound, and another ! Now those phenomena which are ascribed by Dr. Carpenter to what is termed Germinal Capacity and Directive Agency, are