244 AN ELEMENTARY PART OP BONE. they have been altered by drying, and after they have been completely deprived of th<-ir living matter. An elementary part of dead dried hove.—An elementary part of fully-fornn d dead and dried bone consists of a space {lacuna), occupied in the recent state with germinal matter, with a certain portion of hard osseous tissue which is traversed by numerous pores or channels (canalicidi) passing from one little space (lacuna) in a tortuous manner to adjacent lacunae, fig. 145. An elementary part of living bone.—An elementally part of fully-formed living bone consists of a mass of germinal matter, surrounded on all sides by, and continuous with, a thin layer of soft formed material, which passes uninterruptedly into the hard calcified formed material {matrix or intercellular substance of authors) pi. XVIII, fig. 164. This hard material is in the fully formed bone penetrated everywhere by very fine channels (canalicidi) through which the nutrient fluid passes towards the masses of germinal matter; for, as the hard material in its fully formed state is almost impermeable, nutrient fluid could not reach the germinal matter were it not for these little canals or canalicuH in its substance. An elementary part of every kind of bone at a very early period of its formation, consists of a mass of germinal matter, surrounded by a certain proportion of granular, homogeneous or more or less fibrous formed material. This last becomes the seat of deposition of calcareous matter, which proceeds in a direction from without inwards. The formation of the canaliculi takes place in the same direction. One of us (L. S. B.) has shown, in opposition to the generally received opinion, that the formation of these tubes commences not at a point nearest to the germinal matter or " cell," as has been repeatedly stated, but at a distance from it. See pages 249, 254. The difference between dead bone and living bone is simply this: in the first, formation of tissue has everywhere ceased ; while in the last, it is still proceeding, and around each mass of bioplasm the production of matrix and the deposition of calcareous salts in the matrix already formed is going on. These changes may proceed very slowly, but in all living bone they are taking place. The only matter in a living bone which is actually alive is that which is ordinarily termed the "nucleus''