121 FIBRINO-PLASTIC SUBSTANCE. fibrin. There still exists much difference of opinion con- cerning the mode of formation, origin, and uses of this sub- stance. Dr. Richardson supposed that the fibrin was held in solution by the ammonia present in living blood, but although there is no doubt that this substance will prevent the coagulation of blood, there are many facts opposed to Dr. Richardson's view, and some observers have not succeeded in detecting even traces of free ammonia in fluids in which fibrin existed in its uncoagTdated state. It has been inferred by Mr. Lister that the chemical com- bination of globulin and fibrinogen, and the formation of fibrin was due to some mysterious and unexplained action of extra- neous matters and ordinary solids, upon the previously soluble materials. Others consider that the blood possesses a "natural tendency " to coagulate, but that as long as it remains within the body, if the vessels be in a healthy state, coagulation is pre- vented. Neither of these views are entitled to be considered explanations of the process of coagulation. Professor Andrew Buchanan, of Glasgow, observed long ago that the fluid of hydrocele yielded a coagulum, if blood serum, probably containing a tew blood corpuscles, were allowed to fall into it, although it might be kept for any length of time with- out coagulation, if no blood serum were added. A. Schmidt, of Dorpat, apparantly ignorant of Buchanan's observations made twenty years before, has recently shown that for the formation of fibrin, a fibrino-plastic substance of the nature of globulin, must combine with another substance, which he terms fibrinogen. Either may be present without the occurrence of coagulation, but if the smallest proportion of the fibrino-plastic compound be added to fibrinogen, coagulation occurs. The fibrino plastic substance is globulin, and may be obtained from various sources, as saliva, synovia, the fluids of the eye, connective tissue, probably also from muscle, nerve, &c. This view con- cerning the formation of fibrin has been accepted by Mr. Lister. According to some, the formation of fibrin is a purely chemical process, and results from the direct oxidation of the albumen. Von Gorup-Besanez has shown that ozonized air causes the formation of fibrin-like coagula in an albuminous solution, and that these coagula might be re-dissolved in the