OF VITAL POWER. 34 It is to be regretted that many who have recently written upon the subject of life have not expressed themselves clearly. Not unfrequently assertions are met with which are incompatible with one another, and even in the writings of the best modern thinkers there is mnch that is obscure and indefinite. Almost every writer seems to avoid stating in what points the simplest living things resemble, and in what they differ from, inorganic matter, and instead of discussing in the first place the nature and causes of the phenomena occurring in a mass of the simplest living matter, and then proceeding to the consideration of those observed in more complex organisms, the latter are almost exclusively referred to. Very different classes of phenomena are often included under the same head, and futile attempts made to account for opposite and antagonistic actions by the same hypothesis. Although we are quite unable to say what sort of force vital power is, to isolate it, to examine it, or to give any satisfactory account of the exact maimer in which it exerts its peculiar iuduence upon inanimate matter, we seem compelled to admit the existence of such a power, because the facts observed cannot be explained without such an admission. Every attempt hitherto made to account for the various phenomena which occur in living beings by physical actions alone has signally failed, and although some physiologists still hold to this view, they are compelled to ignore those phenomena which they cannot explain, and to discuss only those which occur after the peculiar (vital) actions have ceased to manifest themselves. They in fact describe as vital acts the destruction of peculiar substances which subtances resulted from the death of living matter, which occurred perhaps a long time before. Strange as it may seem, it has been argued that as these unquestionably physical changes were formerly considered to be due to vital forces, physical forces only are concerned in vital phenomena. If those who hold such opinions would follow out the changes which occur throughout the life of the simplest organism, or even single cell, they would probably soon be convinced that something more than physical agency was required to account for the results observed. It is unsatisfactory to many minds to be thus compelled to