33 OF VITAL POWER. the tendency? We know that the particles do actually arrange themselves in a very peculiar and special manner which cannot be imitated, and we want to know why they do so. Is it unrea- sonable to suppose that they take up then peculiar and con- strained position in consequence of being influenced by a very peculiar force or power? It is difficult to help calling for an hypothesis to account for the tendency to assume specific form, which is admitted. It has often been suggested that the movements of living beings are due to physical changes, but it must be borne in mind that different classes of movements are observed in con- nection with living beings. Under the head of contractility have been described several phenomena differing in their essential nature. For instance, the contractility of muscle, the vibration of cilia, and the oscillations of the spermatozoa, are different in their nature from the movements observed in the white blood corpuscle, pus and mucus corpuscle, and in many of the lowest and most simple organisms, such as the amoeba, the foraminifera, &c. These and other movements will be considered in Chapter III; but with reference to the latter class of movement it may be at once remarked that they cannot be accounted for by physics, nor are they to be explained by any chemical changes occurring in the matter itself. They have been referred to osmosis, and to diffusion, but no such movements as these occur when conditions favourable to diffusion exist, while, even if they had been shown to depend upon these processes, we should still have to learn how the substance concerned in these movements was produced. The motion does not at all resem- ble any other kind of motion whatever. The moving power seems to reside in the particles themselves, and if such a moving mass be divided into several small portions> each portion will exhibit movements, while any very sudden shock, as of electri- city, will at once destroy the capacity for movement, and at the same time cause all those phenomena which we regard as evidence of life to cease for ever. It has been assumed that these movements are peculiar to certain cells or bodies, and they have been termed "amoebiform cells" in consequence, but it will be shown that such movements occur in every form of living matter. They are peculiar to living matter, but not to any special organisms. D