BY THE PROCESS OP OXIDATION. 133 various substances in that fluid are not fully oxidised, and the so-called extractive matters, together with uric and oxalic acids, and allied compounds, result, instead of the more soluble highly oxidised substances, such as urea and carbonic acid, which are so readily removed from the system in the excretions. The value of alkalies and of their salts with the vegetable acids, in all those conditions which are characterized by the formation and accu- mulation in the blood, or tissues, of imperfectly oxidised sub- stances, is well known to all practical physicians. The blood and the fluids which bathe the tissues in health exhibit an alkaline reaction, due to the presence of soda in combination with albumen, and with carbonic and phosphoric acids. It is probable that substances resulting from the biliary matters exert m influence similar to that of alkalies, and perhaps perform a rery important oflice in facilitating that intimate contact be- tween elements having a strong chemical attraction for one :mother, which immediately precedes chemical action. It has been sometimes imagined that oxygen at once com- bines with the carbon of certain constituents dissolved in the i ilood or fluids, or even entering into the composition of the lolids of the tissues, but it is very unlikely that this should be j he case. Although the present state of chemical knowledge ms led chemists to infer that in the body highly oxidised pro- i lucts result from the combination of successive portions of L >xygen with the same substance, so that portions of hydrogen nd carbon are successively removed, until a highly complex rganic compound is reduced to one of a comparatively simple omposition, and finally into the raw materials of organic life, ftrbonic acid and water, it is extremely doubtful if chemical langes occur in this manner in the organism. A process of le kind has indeed been performed in the laboratory;* for * An example of this degrading oxidation is afforded by the action of oxidising I ents upon glycol (a chemical analogue of alcohol). Glycol C2H602 G-lycolic acid C2H403 GHyoxal C2Ha03 Glyoxalic acid C2H203 Oxalic acid C2H204 Pormic acid 0 H202 Carbonic acid 0 03 Water HaO I These substances, with the exception of glycol, are also formed by the decompo- j|.on of nitrous ether (C2H5N02) in contact with water .—[Note from Prof. Bloxam.]