228 FORMATION AND GROWTH The student may obtain interesting specimens of spongy elastic cartilage from the cartilage of the lobe of the ear, from the epiglottis of the human subject, or from the arytenoid cartilages of man, the ox, or sheep. It has been supposed that the fibres of this form of cartilage, which resist the action of acetic acid, and agree in general characters with elastic tissue, result from changes which have spontaneously occurred in the so-called intercellular-substance. Some have considered it a sufficient explanation of the process to attribute it to " fibril- lation " or to "differentiation" of the matrix, and seem to think that the elastic fibres simply crystallise out, as it were, forgetting, however, that the elastic tissue cannot be detected in the fluid corresponding to mother liquor from which the crystallisable matter separates. If a thin section of the epi- glottis be attentively examined with a high power, the angles of the masses of germinal matter may be seen to be continuous with the fibres. In short, there is little doubt that as the germinal matter moves about in these spaces, the fibres are slowly formed one within the other until that highly complex concentrically arranged network of fibres characteristic of the fully formed tissue results, see fig. 130, pi. XV, which represents the appearance seen in a very thin section cut parallel to the flat surface near the circumference of the epiglottis. Formation and groioth of Cartilage.—All observers are agreed that at an early period of development every form of cartilage consists almost entirely of bodies termed cells. But at this time these " cells" have no cell-wall, and the material of which they consist is continuous with the small amount of transparent matter in which they lie, and which forms a very thin layer, separating them from one another, fig. 134, pi. XVI. We may therefore say, that at first cartilage consists of roimdish masses of germinal matter or bioplasm, embedded in a small quantity of soft transparent formed material. It is only necessary to inves- tigate carefully the alterations which occur during development in this simple typical structure. As in other cases, in the perfectly fresh tissue the germinal matter is continuous with the formed material. Sometimes, after death there is an appearance as ot masses with a well-defined outline distinct from the formed material, and hence has arisen the notion of cells with distinct cell walls. But any mass of germinal matter placed in water