139 UREA. any one that so far from the conditions under which compounds are formed in living things resembling those present when similar substances are produced in the laboratory, they are totally different. There is not indeed, as far as is yet known, the slightest real analogy between the chemical operations in the laboratory and those taking place in living germinal matter * Urea (CH4N20). Among the substances probably resulting from the oxidation of compounds allied to albumen, one of the most important is urea. This is a crystalline excrementitious substance, very soluble in water, and readily diffusible. In health it is separated from the blood as it passes through the vessels of the kidney so fast that only mere traces can be detected, even if a large quantity of healthy blood be operated upon. But if the action of the kidneys is impaired by disease, or if the organs are extirpated, or if a ligature be passed round the artery, so as to prevent the blood from passing through the kidney, urea may accumulate in the blood in sufficient quantity to be detected in the serum without diffi- culty. Urea is not found in the muscles, although it can be obtained by the decomposition of kreatine and other substances found in muscular tissue. Recent researches have rendered it probable that much of the urea which is excreted is not formed in the tissues or in the blood, and merely separated and eliminated by the kidney, as was formerly supposed, but that a considerable proportion is actually produced in the kidney itself. It seems probable that the oxygen dissolved in the water which niters away from the arterial blood as it slowly traverses the capillaries of the Malpighian tuft, oxidizes certain constituents of the cells which Hue the xuiniferous tubes, and that urea is one of the substances resulting from this action. It would appear that for the formation of urea in quantity a large proportion of fluid is necessary, and in the case of animals living under conditions which interfere with the intro- duction into and passage through the system of large quantities of water, uric acid, and other less soluble substances seem to be substituted for urea. Crystals of urea are represented in plate VIII, fig. 70. of baryta by the action of iron at a high temperature, does seem to be entirely inde- pendent of organic life. * See papers in the Medical Times and Gazette, especially April 7th and 14th, 1866.