212 FORMATION OF CERTAIN anoes have been observed in certain of the papillae of the human skin and tongue, and in other situations where plexuses of nerve fibres and vessels are abundant. In the beautiful papilla of the tongue of the hyla the structures in question are very distinct.* By alterations occurring in nerves and capillary vessels, fibres like the yellow elastic fibres of connective tissue result. The fact has been demonstrated in many different situations and in different animals, as man, the mouse, the cat, frog, and some others. The actual alteration of nerve fibres into fibrous tissue has been very carefully studied in many localities. In the human organism the sole difficulty of following out the distribu- tion of the nerves arises from the abundance of the connective tissue about them, and the difficulty increases as age advances. Fibrous tissue also forms the residue of many other struc- tures besides nerves and vessels ; in fact, the variety which we are now considering is composed of the remains of various tissues which cannot be entirely removed by absorption. The connective tissue between the ultimate follicles of glands, that which surrounds vessels and nerves, and the fibrous tissue of which the so-called capsule of certain organs, liver, kidney, spleen, &c, are all in part or entirely of this nature. No wonder that in man, whose tissues pass through so many phases before they reach maturity, and in whom such active changes continually occur after this period, there shordd be a large amount of such a texture. This tissue, which is absent in the embryo at an early period, exists in very small quantity in the young child, but the proportion gradually increases as age advances. In small animals there is less than there is in large animals, and in young animals there is less than in old animals. In creatures of the simplest organization, whose tissues are, so to say, embryonic throughout the whole period of their ex- istence, there is none. In all the higher animals whose textures uninterruptedly pass without cessation through many stages before they attain their perfect form, there is a large quantity. This form of connective tissue also results in the course of certain degenerative processes occurring in higher tissues in disease. In various glandular organs which have undergone * " New Observations upon the Minute Anatomy of the Papillae of the Frog's Tongue."—Phil. Trans. June, 1864.