136 OXIDATION AND THE PRODUCTION OF HEAT. of Dr. George Harley have shown that snake poison, uric acid, and some other substances accelerate the absorption of oxygen and the exhalation of carbonic acid; while sugar, hydrocyanic acid, nicotine, morphine, chloroform, and alcohol exhibit a contrary effect, and diminish the property which the constituents of the red blood corpuscles exhibit to unite with oxygen and give off carbonic acid.* The action of oxygen on cruorine has been referred to in page 127. Besides the property of acting as carriers of ordinary oxygen, it is possible that the red blood corpuscles may be very efficient carriers of ozone. This opinion has been adopted by His and other observers, who state that they readily take up and give off this peculiar form of oxygen which possibly is instrumental in combining with certain products resulting from the decay of animal substances, and thus preventing their deleterious action in the organism; but, at the same time, it should be remarked that at present we know very httle of a positive nature concerning ozone or its actions.f Relation of Oxidation to the heat producing process.—Not only has the development of heat in the animal body been attributed to the combination of oxygen with carbon and hydrogen of some of the constituents of the blood and tissues, but it has been concluded that in all cases in which the temperature of the body rises above the normal standard the activity of the oxidising process must be necessarily augmented; and this notwithstanding the fact well and widely known, that certain states of disease, remarkable for an elevated temperature, are associated with conditions seriously interfering with the free introduction and distribution of oxygen. The fact that the temperature of the body has been known to rise several degrees after death, in diseases in which for some time previously the introduction of oxygen into the blood had been seriously * Proceedings of the Royal Society, 1864. f Much difference of opinion still exists concerning the nature of ozone. Schonbem considers that oxygen exists in three different allotropic conditions, of which, two are active and opposed to each other ; these are ozone and antozone, equal quantities of which neutralize each other and form inactive or neutral oxygen, ■which may be separated one-balf into ozone and one-half into antozone. .Neither ozone nor antozone, have however, yet been isolated in a state of purity, but are . always mixed with neutral oxygen. It appears that Brodie discovered the polar condition of oxygen, and his views were applied to ozone by ScLSnbein about ten years afterwards.—(See Proc. Roy. Soc, vol. xi. p. 442.)