G7 FOR MICROSCOPICAL EXAMINATION. F 2 6. The specimens are now ready for examination. Thin sections are cut with a knife from the fractured surfaces of the dentine, including a portion of the soft pulp. The knife should be strong, but sharp. In practice I have found the double-edged scalpels made for me by the Messrs. Weiss and Son, of the Strand, answer exceedingly well for this purpose, nor will the edge of the knife be destroyed so soon as would be supposed. 7. The minute fragments of sections thus obtained are placed upon a slide and immersed in a drop of pure strong glycerine, in which they may be allowed to soak for an hour or more, and then examined by a low power (an inch). The best pieces are then to be selected by the aid of a fine needle, and removed to a drop of glycerine containing two drops of acetic acid to the ounce, and placed upon a clean slide. Lastly the thin glass cover is care- fully applied, and the specimen may be examined with higher powers. 8. If it is desired to retain the specimen, the excess of glycerine fluid is absorbed by small pieces of blotting-paper, and the glass cover cemented to the slide by carefully painting a narrow ring of Bell's cement round it. When this first thin layer is dry, the brush may be carried round a second time, and after the lapse of a few days, more may be applied. Mounted in this way the specimen will retain its character for years. Hard tissues, like bone, dentine, and enamel, become somewhat softened by prolonged maceration in glycerine, and if a few drops of acetic acid are added, the softening process may be carried to a greater extent, and yet without the calcareous matter being dissolved out to any perceptible extent. If desired, of course the calcareous matter may be in part or entirely removed by increasing the streugth of the acid fluid in which the preparation is immersed. But, far short of this, the hard, brittle texture is so altered that thin sections may be cut without any difficulty. Specimens prepared in this way may be examined by the highest magnifying powers yet made,—by which statement I mean, of course, to imply that more may be learned by the use of such high powers (1,000 to 3,000 linear) than by employing ordinary object glasses. Contrary to general opinion, many of the softest textures may be inves- tigated with the greatest facility after having been soaked in strong glycerine. In preparing these, the same steps which have been described must be carried out, but the glycerine used at first must be weaker, and its strength must be very slowly and gradually increased. Young embryos may be injected with the Prussian blue fluid. The pipe cannot be tied in the vessels, as they are extremely soft. But if it is simply inserted, much of the injection will run onwards into the capillaries, and the escape of a certain quantity by the side of the pipe is a matter of no moment. I have beautiful preparations of the most delicate embryonic tissues, preserved in the strongest glycerine. It is often advantageous to harden the tissues slightly by the addition of a little of the chromic acid glycerine solution. When once the tissues have been fully permeated by glycerine, they may be dissected and manipulated in a manner which before was impossible. [L. S. BJ