THE ADIPOSE VESICLE. 292 latter. The fat is the material contained within the vesicles, fig. 189. The Membrane of the Adipose Vesicle does not exceed the noiiTo °f an ^ncn m thickness, and is quite transparent. It is moistened by watery fluid, for which, as Mr. Paget has suggested, it has a greater attraction than for the fat it contains. It is perfectly homogeneous, having no appear- ance of compound structure, and consequently belongs to the class of simple or elementary membranes. Each vesicle is complete in itself ; A fat cell after Schwann, shewing the bioplasm or nucleus, d, and the mem- brane, c is from the 3^ to the -g-^p- of an inch in dia- Pio. 190. meter, when fully developed; and is supplied on its exterior with capillary blood-vessels, having a special disposition. When the fat of adipose tissue is absorbed, the vesicles shrink somewhat but remain, and it is probable that fatty matter may be removed from and subse- quently be deposited in the very same fat vesicle. The fat vesicles are usually found in great numbers together, and as they increase in dimensions they become flattened on their contiguous aspects, and assume a polyhedral figure more or less regular, as may be noticed in ordinary suet, fig. 190. But, if isolated, their form is rounded, as may be seen in eminent beauty in the double series of them which frequently accompanies the minute vessels traversing membranous expansions of the areolar tissue, and other structures, particularly the mesentery of small animals. The vessels are thus attended by fat vesicles, for the manifest purpose of protection from the pressure to which they would be exposed in their open course, and they throw around each vesicle a capillary loop, fig. 194, pi. XX. Where the adipose tissue is in considerable quantity, it is commonly subdivided into a number of small fragments or lobules, fitted accurately to one another and invested with areolar tissue, for the purpose, chiefly, of permitting motion Tat vesicles, assuming the poly- hedral form from pressure against oue another. The capillary vessels are not represented.—From the omentum ; magnified about 300 dia- meters.