7 PROXIMATE PRINCIPLES. resisted father decomposition. These elements unite in certain definite proportions to form the compound inorganic substances. Organized bodies are capable of being resolved, by ultimate analysis, into inorganic simple elements; but the list of simple substances which may be obtained from this source comprises only aboivt twenty. Of the four widely-spread elements, oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, and carbon, two, at least, will be found in eveiy organic compound; hence, as Dr Prout has suggested, these four may be conveniently distinguished as the essential elements of organic matter. The other simple sub- stances are found in smaller quantities, and are less extensively diffused; these may be termed its incidental elements. They are sulphur, phosphorus, chlorine, soditun, potassium, calcium, magnesium, silicon, aluminium, iron, manganese, iodine, and bromine, and probably others; the last two are obtained almost exclusively from marine plants and animals. Proximate Principles.—From various animal and vegetable tissues, and from their fluids, may be obtained by proximate analysis, a class of substances which have been grouped together under the head of proximate principles, or organizable substances, because they are specially concerned in nutrition. It is these substances which form the most important constituents of the food of man and the higher animals. The following are examples of proximate principles—gluten, starch, lignine, from the vegetable textures; albumen, fibrine, casein, from the animal ones. From the organized structure, called muscle, for example, we obtain by analysis, first fibrine, a proximate principle, which is its chief constituent; and, subsequently, by the analysis of fibrine, we get the simple elements, oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, and sulphur, in certain proportions. On the other hand, by synthesis, or the combination of certain simple inorganic elements in the organism of the plant, an organic compound, closely alhed to fibrine, is produced; from which, or from allied substances forming the food of animals, the organized structure, muscle, is formed. In many organized bodies the constituent particles are, as it were, artfully arranged, so as to form peculiar textures, destined to serve special purposes in the living mechanism of the animal or plant to which they belong. These textures exhibit peculiar structure, which is one of the results of vital action, although