165 NERVE TISSUE. instrumental in exciting contraction: and the depth of the % contracting portions indicated by the varying distances between the lines in different cases may be accounted for by the altered rate of performance of the operations above referred to. Nerve Tissue.—It has been generally considered that the tissue of the nerve fibre was peculiar and that its function was in some manner determined by the peculiarity of its structure, or by its chemical composition. Such a view is, however, not supported by facts. For when we come to examine the axis cylinder which is undoubtedly the active and really essential part of the nerve, being that which is alone instrumental in transmitting the current, we find that this filament possesses an exceedingly simple structure, and, at least in some animals looks very like ordinary fibrous tissue. Indeed, if we were ■ shown only a very small piece of an axis cylinder of a frog's nerve fibre, and some pieces of fibrous tissue of the same shape %l, and size we should not be able with certainty to distinguish 1^1 one froni the other. Can the axis cylinder be regarded as any- *'t| thing more than a veiy elongated band composed of a texture is| closely allied to white fibrous tissue, but formed of perfectly I parallel and continuous strata, not disposed as distinct fibres esoi but nevertheless tearing in the longitudinal direction only? it all- Anatomical observation would justify us in concluding that if it it w» were possible to replace an axis cylinder by a long filament of ialtJ ordinary fibrous tissue, we should find that this would conduct ,a. ol: the nerve current as effectually as the ordinary axis cylinder i\x:« itself. We doubt if the axis cylinder is capable of undergoing tilityl any remarkable changes in internal arrangement during nerve , tttiA action, and consider that whatever those changes may be, they ,,T ji are of such a nature that they might occur in other forms of tissue. ..■hjlThe peculiarity of the nervous system upon which all its cha- ^l-.racteristic phenomena depend, is probably not any remarkable jgtj arrangement in minute structure, but simply uninterrupted continuity of conducting tissue. Nor have we reason to think thtf the germinal matter of nerve grows or lives very differently om other forms of germinal matter. It receives its nutrient -flJanaterial from the same blood and is derived from the same masses of germinal matter which give origin to other forms. Considering the characters and arrangement of the germinal matter and its relation to the formed material in all tissues, it lin hi)