277 OF TEMPORARY BONE. The calcareous matter is mainly deposited in the formed material between the lines of cells, so that a network of tempo- rary and brittle spongy bone tissue is formed. In these crypts or spaces the cartilage cells remain, and their ' nuclei' still retain their vitality. Calcareous particles are also deposited in the material of which the outer portion of the elementary part consists, and which has been termed the " cell-wall." The vessels advance close to the seat of these changes, and it is possible that the passage of the nutrient pabulum from the vessels, for the most part in linear streams parallel to the long axis of the bone, as from a base, may determine the linear arrangement and the enlargement of the cells already spoken of. Moreover, as the calcareous matter must have been carried in a state of solution to the matrix, where it is precipitated, it is obvious that at the point where the cells are the largest, much fluid has been set free, and it is probable that this may in part be taken up by these cells. Temporary cartilage contains many vascular canals, and the youngest cartilage cells are situated nearest to these. The rate of growth of the cartilage cells and the formation of matrix gradually diminishes as we pass from the canals. The vascu- larity of the bone is, however, far greater than that of the car- tilage, and thus the greater siipply of pabulum and the more rapid change at the ossifying surface are explained. The production and removal of Temporary Bone.—The changes which have been already described result in the formation of a soft spongy network of very brittle temporary bone, pi. XIX, fig. 182, at a. Such a tissue, though useful for a short time, when strength was not a requirement, would be quite unser- viceable for supporting the weight? of the body, or for the attachment of muscles to move the limbs. This temporary bone is so fragile that it may be easily crushed between the finger and thumb. It consists merely of the soft matrix of the temporary cartilage irregularly infiltrated with calcareous matter, which has been very quickly precipitated. No sooner is this brittle tissue formed than changes begin to take place in it. If we examine the shaft of a long bone in which ossification has just commenced in the central part, as represented in fig. 177, we shall find that calcareous matter is deposited throughout the entire thickness. The temporary cartilage,