225 FIBRO-CARTILAGE. tilages, with this difference, that then- blood-vessels are less numerous. In those which are thin, no vascular canals are to be found; but where there is much substance, as in the costal cartilages, they are easily detected. Nothing is more certain than that articular cartilage, in man, is not penetrated by blood-vessels. Coloured fluids in- jected into the vessels cannot be made to enter it, but are.seen to turn back, on reaching it, into the tissue which conveyed them to it. But we possess a more certain test than this, in the examination of thin slices of the tissue under a high power. This brings no vessels into view; on the contrary, it proves then non-existence beyond dispute. In some diseased states, however, a few vessels may be demonstrated. Mr. Toynbee (Phil. Trans., 1841,) has pointed out, that the vessels of bone, at the part on which cartilage rests, are separated from the cartilage by a bony lamella, in which no apertures exist. The minute details, on approaching this lamella, dilate, and form loops with the convexity towards the cartilage. The vessels after forming arches, run back into the cancelli of the bone. Such an arrangement must, of course, be attended with a retardation of the blood near the "articular lamella." The vessels of the synovial membrane advance with it a little way upon the articular surface of the cartilage, but only over those parts which are not subject to pressure during the natural movements of the joint. These likewise terminate in loops. In diseased states they often advance much further upon the cartilage than they do naturally. Of Fibro-Cartilage.—This texture is a compound of white fibrous tissue and cartilage in varying proportions. It is prin- cipally employed in the construction of joints, and contributes to then perfection at once by its strength and its elasticity; but as it is also, to a limited extent, used for other purposes, it may be conveniently described as 1, Articular; 2, Non-articular. Fibro-cartilage, examined by the naked eye, has much of the colour and general appearance of the thyroid cartilage, or of other examples of the membraniform variety, which Bichat, indeed, clased among Hbro-cartilages. Its colour is white, with a slight tinge of yellow ; it is interspersed by the shining fibres of white fibrous tissue, and its appearance differs with the quantity of that texture that is mingled with it. Its consistence