72 GENERAL STRUCTURE together, none can be more dissimilar as regards their endow- ments. They differ materially as to the degree of cohesion between their cells: in cartilage there is generally what is spoken of as a firm and resisting intercellular substance, which, however, is not truly tnimjellular, since it exactly corresponds to what in other tissues is spoken of as cell-wall. The sclerous tissue (cr/cX^po?, hard,) contains a large pro- portion of inorganic material, to which it owes its hardness. The compound tissues are those, the elementary parts of which are concerned in the production of two distinct tissues. Fibro-cartilage is a compound texture, being made up of white fibrous tissue and cartilage; it is employed almost exclusively in the mechanism of the joints of the skeleton, in which it is associated with bone, cartilage, and ligaments. Muscle and nerve are composed of parallel fibres or threads, each fibre being compound, and exhibiting a special structure; in muscle, it is composed of homogeneous membrane, disposed like a tube, containing a fleshy (sarcoits) substance, arranged in a particular manner, which is the seat of the peculiar con- tractile properties of the tissue; and, in nerve, the fibres are composed of similar tubes of homogeneous membrane contain- ing an oleo-albuminous substance, within which is a delicate band or fibre possessing the remarkable property of conducting the nerve force. The arteries, veins, and larger absorbent vessels, are also examples of compound tissues,—their walls being composed of several textures exhibiting different endow- ments. All these different tissues, however, possess in the living growing state, disseminated at nearly equal distances through their substance, masses of germinal or living matter, which appear perfectly colourless, homogeneous, and almost diffluent. In this material all the essential changes take place. Each mass is spherical or oval in form, and often exhibits in its sub- tance one or more smaller masses (nuclei), which are somewhat less transparent than the general mass in which they are embedded. In the nuclei in many cases are other still smaller masses (nucleoli), and sometimes within these yet another series may be detected with the aid of very high magm'fying powers. Thus it would seem as if centres were arranged within centres.