236 COMPOSITION OP BONE. forms organs of support, or levers for motion, or it encloses cavities, affording protection to soft tissues and to organs of vital importance. In some members of the vertebrate series, bone is found associated with various tissue s, as the skin, ten- don, and certain forms of fibrous tissue, as the sclerotic coat of the eye. To a superficial examination, bone presents the following properties : hardness, density, a whitish colour, opacity. An examination of its physical constitution will explain these characters. Bone contains less water than most other tissues in the body; and exposure to air, even for a short time, removes much of the fluid by evaporation; to this, hi part, may be attributed its hardness. It is easy to prove that bone consists of soft organic tissue, exhibiting structure, and hard calcareous matter deposited in its substance. These may be separated by a very simple process. The soft organic matter may be obtained by steeping a bone for some time in dilute hydrochloric acid (one part of acid to three of water), for this acid dissolves the calcareous salts, and leaves the tissue of the bone. The decalcified tissue is so soft, that a long bone treated in this way may be bent in any direction, or even tied in a knot. Yet every eminence, every minute canal, and even the slightest inequalities of the surface are as distinctly marked as they were before the action of the acid. Upon the addition of excess of ammonia to the acid solution, the calcareous salts maybe precipitated in an insoluble form, and by applying appropriate tests, phosphates of lime and magnesia, a little carbonate of lime, with traces of fluoride of calcium, may be detected. Again, the calcareous salts of the bone may be made evident by another process which causes the destruction of the organic matter. If a bone be subjected to a red heat in a crucible, it becomes charred and black; but if kept for some time at this high temperature, exposed to the air, the carbon is gradually burnt off, escaping as carbonic acid, while the calcareous salts remain behind in a pure state. If the process is conducted with care, although the bone shrinks a little, its form is un- unaltered, and every eminence and every hole is as distinct as in the recent bone, or in the bone treated with acid; but the • cohesion between the earthy particles is extremely slight, so