LAMELL2E. 265 They are frequently eccentric, owing to their wall bulging more in one direction than another, to fit in between others in the vicinity; for though the rods of bone, containing the vessels, affect the cylindrical form, they often present an oval, or even a very irregular figure, on a section; their close package having modified their form.* The periosteal and medullary layers are also well seen on the same section, the latter curving inwards to constitute the walls of the cancelli. These two layers are of very irregular thickness. The lamellated character of bone can be distinguished in the periosteal, medullary, and Haversian layers; and, in general, wherever several successive series of lacunas exist. The Haver- sian rods, however, are remarkably prone to exhibit this ap- pearance. Their lamellae, however, are not concen- FlG< l>1^' trie, as commonly des- cribed. The fissures which disclose them are indeed concentric, but they are always incomplete, never extending completely round the canal; so that the lam ell as run into one another at VariOUS points. TranBVerse section of the compact tissue of a tibia from an This results from the fact f^4„8Ubject- trf.ttled.Lw;'h aci.d; *h0™"e the .ai,pearanoe of lamcllse surrounding the Haversian canals- Portions of several that the klCUnai are not By8^eras °^ lamellie are seen. The appearance of the lacuna;. when their pores are filled with fluid, is also seen, as well as arranged in Sets equidis- ^e ^'ation fr°m the canals which then remain —From Mr. tant from the centre, but are scattered, as it were, independently of one another, at every possible variety of distance from the canal (fig. 146, p. 245 and 172). The larger concentric cracks, which generally run through the lacunas, seem to occur where two or three of these happen to lie nearly in the same curve. Bone is very apt to crack in the interval between the rods ; and each of these rods is really so distinct from those near it, that it may be designated con- veniently, for the purposes of description, as an Haversian system of lamella}. * The irregular size and outline of the Haversian canals thus noticed by Todd and Bowman have been fully explained by the researches of Tomes and De Morgan. See page 267.