30 IRRITANTS AND EXCITANTS. of cells, and increased vascularity. It is said the particle of sand has excited these changes. It is an irritant. But the heat, light, and particle of inorganic matter are probably all perfectly passive. They have not been instrumental in actively exciting changes, but the conditions under which life was carried on before, have been altered, and the alteration is really due to changes not in the living matter, but in the formed lifeless matter by which it is surrounded. In consequence it permits pabulum to flow towards the living matter more readily than before. The living matter is not excited to live faster, but in consequence of more pabulum having access to it, more matter becomes living within the same period of time. The influence of the excitant is there- fore of a passive character. It does not excite dormant energies or evoke vital actions, but by it some of the restrictions under which the matter lived previously are removed. It is remarkable in these days, when the explanation of phenomena by hypothetical agencies, forces, or powers is assailed on all hands, that even some of those observers who have been specially distinguished for their opposition to any doctrine which admits the influence of vital as distinct from physical force, should pertinaciously insist, and without attempting to explain by what mysterious means, that a living cell can exert a modifying influence upon the action of cells around it. A cell undergoing increased action is supposed to excite increased action in those cells in its immediate neighbourhood. For example, Professor Virohow asserts that cells may be incited by a stimulus directly applied to them to take up an increased quantity of material. He maintains that every vital action presupposes an excitation or irritation. The illustration he gives for the purpose of explaining what he means by irritation will per- haps enable the reader to form a clearer notion of the views entertained upon these matters in the present day than a long exposition of the doctrines themselves. " Suppose three people were sitting quietly on a bench, and suddenly a stone came and injured one of them, the others would be excited, not only by the sudden appearance of the stone, but also by the injury done to their companion, to whose help they would feel bound to hasten. Here the stone would be the irritant, the injury the irritament, the help an expression of the irritation called forth in the bystanders." So that not only have the