PORES IN CELLS. 81 the flow of nutrient matter, takes place constantly in one definite direction, as shown by the arrows. These mucus- forming cells are seen amongst the ciliated epithelial cells upon the tongue of the frog, and are very large and distinct upon the mucous membrane of the mouth of serpents, plate II, fig. 25a. It seems probable that the products of secretion from these cells are wafted away by the vibration of the cilia of the adjacent cells, as they issue from the open end of the cell in which they were produced. In the case of the columnar cells covering the villi, lines are also seen, and probably depend upon the nutrient matter in the intestine being drawn towards the germinal matter of the cell in a linear direction (fig. 26a). These lines have been regarded by Kolliker and others, as pores in the layer of thick transparent material which seems to close what has been regarded as the free end of the cell, and it has been supposed that the fatty matter reduced to a state of very minute division by the process of digestion, passes through the pores in its way towards the lacteal; but from the circumstance that this thick transparent matter forms in some cases a continuous layer over the free extremity of the cells, from which it may be peeled off, and the fact that it varies veiy much in thickness at different periods of the digestive process, it seems probable that the material in question is not a part of the cell at all, but is merely deposited from the contents of the intestine, and caused to collect upon the free ends of the cells, perhaps by the currents of fluid which flow towards the "nucleus." The fluid passing constantly in the same direction would slowly dissolve the precipitated matter, and it would thus be trans- mitted to the germinal matter in the cell. That part of the germinal matter directed towards the opposite or attached 3xtremity of the cell, would at the same time undergo change, and become converted into substances which would pass to the Lacteal vessels upon the surface of the villus. The different position of the mass of germinal matter in ;hese columnar cells, and those mucus-secreting columnar cells rom the frog's or serpent's mouth, should be noticed. In the ntestinal cells, the pabulum flows from the free surface towards ;he attached extremity of the cells, but in the mucus-secreting ;ells it flows in the opposite direction, and it seems not im- G