271 NERVES OF BONE. cavity, and in disease the soft spongy tissue which is formed in connexion with the bone consists of soft masses of this kind. These are the so-called myeloid cells, which are really composed of the bioplasts of bone. At an early period of development, the myeloid cell consists only of several small oval masses of ger- minal matter, the outer part of each of which is undergoing conversion into soft formed material. This compound mass gradually increases, and at a subsequent period becomes impregnated with calcareous matter, and thus a thin plate, or a cylindrical column or a delicate thread of bone-tissue is formed. In fig. 185, pi. XIX, p. 278, a good specimen of the so-called myeloid cells from one of the cancelli of the bone of the great toe is represented. Two or three of the masses are elongated and much bent. These might become ossified and converted into the spicules of bone which form the imperfect septa between the cancelli. Around these are many small granular cells, and it is interesting to notice the fact, that while the first structures have a dark-red colour in the specimen, the latter are scarcely tinged with the carmine, although both have been exposed to the influence of the fluid in the same way. The first was growing actively, the last was comparatively inactive, and there can be no doubt that it was being gradually removed as the former structure advanced in development. What remained would then become the medulla, and many of the " cells " would eventually assume the character of " fat cells." Nerves of hone.—In the periosteal membrane of the frog fine pale nerve fibres may be detected ramifying here and there in the tissue itself, in addition to those which are distributed to the vessels. A similar arrangement is seen in the dura mater, and in the sclerotic coat of the eye, and in tendinous expansions composed of white fibrous tissue. Nerve fibres are distributed to the Aressels of bone, as well as to the vessels of other tissues, but it is doubtful if the bone tissue itself is supplied with nerve fibres. It is true that bone like many other textures which in a state of health are almost insensitive, becomes, when inflamed, intensely sensitive, but this fact may be explained, as in other cases, by changes which have affected the nerves which are distributed to the capillary vessels in great number. [L.S.B.]