126 HiEMATO-CRYSTALLIN. move away from the coloured material already produced.* A the corpuscle advances in age, the whole of the germinal matter becomes converted into the coloured lifeless formed material which very readily assumes the crystalline form. The red cor- puscle, in fact, seems to be composed of a small portion of soft matter, of a viscous consistence, very slightly soluble in fluid, but capable of undergoing solution in the serum under certain circumstances. In some animals the red matter retains its colloid semi-fluid state only while it is kept in active motion in the circulation. The red blood corpuscles of the Guinea-pig pass into a crystalline state within half-an-hour after they have been removed from the vessels, and without the addition of any reagent or solution whatever. It is certain, at least in this case, that there is no rupture of membrane and escape of con- tents. The small mass of viscid matter of which each single corpuscle is composed may be seen to form a single crystal, while if the corpuscles be slightly warmed, they break up into many small portions, each one of which assumes the tetra- hedral form.* (See plate VI, fig. 49; plate VII, figs, 58 to 61.) It appears probable that the coloured material of which the fully-formed red blood corpuscle is composed is a lifeless chemical substance, which, under the conditions to which it is exposed during the circulation, becomes resolved into certain compounds which are of great importance in nutrition, and others, which being readily soluble in fluid, with a high power of diffusion, or in a gaseous state, are readily removed from the organism altogether. It was formerly considered that the matter which enters into the formation of the red blood-corpuscle consisted of two substances, hamiatin and globulin, but later researches rather tend to the conclusion, that in the natural condition there is one chemical substance which, however, is readily decomposed. This has been termed Globulin, Harniato-globulin, Hcemato-crys- tallin, and Hcemo-globulin. It is the crystallisable material above referred to. Various forms of hasmato-crystalhn, from the Guinea- pig, human subject, cat, and mouse, are represented in plate VII. A solution of this substance, as well as of certain products of its decomposition, produces peculiar absorption-bands in the * Observations on the Bed Blood Corpuscle. Trans. Mic. Society, Dec. 1863.