CATARRH OF THE BLADDER. 11 would advise every case of persistent catarrh of the bladder to be examined by the sound, as you not only discover whether the bladder contains a stone, but you get some impression as to the sensitiveness of the viscus. I have seen several cases where no sounding had been practised for months, and where a large stone was eventually detected and removed. Keep the above in remembrance, not only in adults, but also in children. Student passed the sound, and no stone was detected, but the bladder was sensitive, and the patient complamed of pain when slight pressure was made on the mucous membrane, and the bladder grasped the sound. He was advised to take a hot sitz bath at bedtime for fifteen minutes, after which to use a one grain of opium suppository \ to live on milk, soups, barley water, fish, rabbits, and tripe, with plenty cold water to drink, no stimulants to be taken, and to bring a sample of his water in a week. He was also ordered a mixture with liquor potasssse, tinct. hyoscyamus, and infusion of buchu, which may be varied with infusion of urse ursi, &c. The above will dilute his water, soothe the bladder, and relieve him from much of his discomfort. When he returns, he may be ordered to wash out his bladder daily, and the simplest plan to teach him is by either Sir Henry Thompson's washing bottle, along with a Coud^ catheter, or by a syphon from a tin vessel placed above his head, and attached to a double catheter. The injection must be warm, and previous to using it the bladder must be emptied, and the solution used slowly, and only two ounces to be injected at once. The injecting of fluid into the bladder is so important, that I give you Sir Henry Thompson's own words: " You have a flexible catheter in the bladder; have ready a four-ounce india-rubber bottle with a brass nozzle and stopcock,—the nozzle long and tapering to fit a catheter of any size, from Nos. 5 to 10—filled with warm water, say at 100° Fahr. Attach the nozzle gently to the catheter, and throw m slowly a fourth of the contents; let that run out, the fluid will be thick and dirty no doubt; then inject