SURGICAt NOTES. 16 blood; nor has he any pain at the point of his penis, although he complains of pain previous to passing water. You suspect that he has an enlarged prostate, and does not empty his bladder. In order to determine what is wrong, you select a No. 12 Coudd catheter, and with the patient lying down, pass the catheter gently along the canal, withdrawing it a little if there is any obstruction, gradually it will pass into the bladder. Student did this, and found that the bladder contained 12 oz. of urine. The man was instructed how to pass the catheter himself, and told to do so night and morning, receiving also careful instructions as to the proper cleaning of the instrument, and also a prescription for carbolic oil, to anoint it with previous to introduction. It is most important to avoid leading to putrescent urine by the catheter. This man has enlarged prostate, as was found by the student who examined it by the rectum, and he will probably require to pass the catheter at least once a day for the rest of his life. In addition, he must attend to his bowels, by means of simple medicine, such as confection of senna or sulphur, simple Epsom or Carlsbad salts. His diet should be light, with milk in abundance, and little stimulant. When the symptoms are not so pronounced as in this old man, you will find benefit from regulating your patient's diet, and where it is possible, the amount of work he does, and giving him abundance of liquids to dilute his water. The symptoms are often due to a gouty con- dition of the blood, which in elderly people is relieved by the above dietetic method, with attention to the bowels. Citrate of lithia with ergot is often useful, as also liq. potassae, tmct. hyoscyamus, and buchu infusion, the same as you have fre- quently seen ordered in cystitis. Avoid commencing the use of the catheter until you are satisfied that it is absolutely essential and never omit particular directions as to washing the catheter before and after use in some antiseptic, and anointing with carbolic oil. Some surgeons advise keepmg the instrument in a glass tube with antiseptic liquid. The operation of prostatectomy in severe cases is advised.