SURGICAL NOTES. 14 regarded as typical of a hernia. In reducing a swelling of this kind, steady the upper part with the one hand gently, and com- press the swelling itself with the other hand steadily and gradually upwards and outwards, and as a rule there is not much difficulty in reducing it. If there should be, give chloro- form, which relaxes everything and aids the reduction. The swelling might have been a hydrocele, which you would distinguish by its translucency, hold it opposite the daylight or a candle, and you see the light shining through. You sometimes have a hydrocele along with a hernia, so that after reducing the latter, keep in remembrance that all swelling may not disappear. In children, a reducible hydrocele sometimes exists, owing to the communication between the peritoneum and tunica vaginalis re- maining open. The simplest treatment in children among poor people, is that by a skein of worsted, which is so arranged that the two ends looped around the child constitute the pad of a truss to keep the hernia in place. The manner of application was then shewn, and the mother directed to use two skeins of worsted, one during the day and the other at night. When parents can afford it, an ordinary truss of metal covered with leather, and carefully fitted by an instrument maker, is used. It is best when the patient can be seen by the man or woman who fits the truss, but sometimes that is not possible, and you will require to measure the child, and fit a proper truss to your patient. Take, therefore, a lesson in putting on a truss. Mr Hilliard, of this city, will gladly show any of you the important points to attend to. Direct the mother to carefully wash the child, to use a special truss in the bath, and to dust oxide of zinc powder on the place where the pad of the truss is applied. How long should a child wear the truss ? The time varies in each case, generally at least a year, but often for two, according to the size of the hernia, strength of the child, and carefulness of the mother. It must be removed gradually, and reapplied if there is the least tendency to protrusion.