226 SYPHILIS least a year and a half subsequent to this, and when the course of the disease has been mild. If experience bears out the view that the disease is cured when the blood gives a negative Wassermann reaction three months after the end of a mercurial course, a great advance will have been made, and, should this reaction stand the test of time, it will be a most valuable method of checking the results of a mercurial course, and therefore its duration. HEREDITARY SYPHILIS. When a child with inherited syphilis is born alive, the lesions are much the same as the secondary and tertiary ones in the acquired form, but they are apt to be more mixed in character, and tertiary lesions may occur quite early. TREIATMENT.—The treatment of hereditary syphilis is essentially the same as that of the acquired form—namely, the use of mercury in the early lesions, and of iodide of potassium, with or without mercury, in the later forms. Mercury is best administered to infants by means of inunction, as by this means irritation of the stomach and interference with the feeding of the child are entirely avoided. One of the most convenient ways is to spread some unguentum hydrargyri (a piece about the size of a small hazel-nut) upon the binder, leaving it to the natural wriggling movements of the child to rub the mercury into the skin. The binder is removed, the skin well washed, and fresh ointment applied daily. Should there be any irritation of the skin, about ten grains of a ten- per-cent. oleate of mercury may be rubbed into the legs and arms instead of using the abdominal inunction. As soon as the symptoms begin to improve, the quantity used should be diminished, but mercurial treat- ment should be gone on with, either in the form of mild inunctions or by internal administration, at any rate for the first year after birth. If internal administration of mercury be prefeixed, one-sixth of a grain of hydrarg. cum cret., or one-hundredth of a grain of bichloride of mercury well diluted may be given three or four times a day. The hydrarg. cum cret. may usefully be combined with bicarbonate of soda in the propor- tion of one grain of the former to five of the latter ; one grain of this is given three or four times a day to an infant. The bichloride of mercury may be given in the form of liq. hydrarg. perchlor. flavoured with aq. anethi or aq. chloroformi. At the same time it is of great importance to attend to the proper feeding of the child. In prescribing iodide of potassium, the dose will vary with the child's age. Sir Lauder Brunton's plan of calculating the dose for different ages is very simple and efficacious. He takes the age for the full adult dose as twenty-five, and reckons the age of the child at its next birth- day as an integral part of that number ; the full adult age is used as the denominator, and the child's age thus reckoned is used as the numerator.