ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 217 of the lesions, while mercury acts much more effectually. During the tertiary stage, on the other hand, the iodides are much more rapid in their action than is mercury. The Local Treatment of Primary Syphilis.—In the local treatment of the sore irritating applications should be avoided. No attempt should be made to destroy the chancre by caustics ; the application of a caustic never causes the disease to abort, and only produces extension of the ulceration. Excision -of chancres is also not to be recommended as a general rule. In the great majority of cases the infection has spread far beyond the seat of inoculation by the time the diagnosis can be made with certainty, and there is no chance of cutting short the disease by removing the sore. During the early period, when the diagnosis is uncertain, frequent washings, followed by the appli- cation of half-strength boric ointment, or boric lint, should be relied upon. The parts should be kept as dry as possible and rest insisted on, especially in women. When the diagnosis is certain, the favourite local application is lotio nigra. The sore is washed with this three or four times daily, after which a piece of lint soaked in the lotion is applied over its surface. If the penis be the part affected, it should be kept in a bag made by sewing boric or salicyUc wool between two layers of gauze ; this prevents friction and avoids soiling of the linen. When the sore is large and extending it is well to dust it over with calomel and starch (calomel one part, starch powder three parts) two or three times a day, after drying its surface; when there is sloughing or when the discharge is offensive, one part of iodoform or iodol may be added to this. Lint dipped in lotio nigra is then applied to the surface of the ulcer. When the chancre begins to heal, the local use of mercurials may be given up and boric lotion and weak boric ointment substituted. In the acutely spreading, so-called phagedenic ehancre, it is well to bring the patient rapidly under the influence of mercury, especially if the chancre be in a situation where its spread may do serious harm. These so-called phagedenic chancres, although not true phagedena, are nevertheless often due to a mixed infection, and the rule as to the use of caustics may be relaxed here. When sloughing progresses actively in spite of the above treatment, the surface of the sore should be scraped so as to remove all the sloughs, and then undiluted carbolic acid applied to the raw surface ; this may be followed by dusting with calomel and iodoform, and the internal administration of mercury. When the sore is small, it may be scraped with a sharp spoon, after application of an 8 per cent, solution of eucaine to its surface. If it be large, a general anesthetic will be required, and the sore should be cUpped away with scissors or destroyed by nitric acid (see p. 63). Boric fomentations are then applied until granulation is general, and before each fresh fomen- tation is put on the sore should be irrigated with a solution of peroxide of hydrogen (10 vols.).