INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 82 the parts farthest from the heart, especially the toes, the nose, the ears, and sometimes the fingers. This form of gangrene is generally due to endar- teritis and thrombosis ; in some cases, however, it follows embolism. It usually begins during the period of convalescence and is of the dry variety. Treatment.—The treatment is to disinfect the part, apply an antiseptic dressing (see p. 68), and, in the case of the extremities, to wait for a line of demarcation before amputating, partly because the exact amount of tissue that will die cannot be known, and partly because the patient's condition is generally so bad at the onset of the gangrene that amputation would be very apt to cause death. In addition, it is important to support the patient's strength and treat any symptoms that may arise. Gangrene from Ergot.—This form of gangrene may occur in epidemics, when the rye in certain districts has become infected with the ergot fungus {claviceps purpurea) and when families eat large quantities of this infected rye in the form of rye-bread. The early effect of ergot is to produce tonic contraction of the smaller blood-vessels, and if this be kept up for a long time, it may lead to gangrene, more especially of the extremities. Certain symptoms, such as diarrhoea, buzzing in the ears, cramps, cold- ness of the extremities, etc., precede the occurrence of gangrene. The affection usually attacks men between thirty and forty years of age. The form of gangrene is usually dry, but in certain cases it may be moist, and it may vary in extent from the loss of a nail to the loss of a limb. Treatment.—In the first instance the cause should be removed. If there be the premonitory symptoms of ergot poisoning, or the epidemic occurrence of gangrene in young patients who are otherwise healthy, the food must be examined, and if the claviceps be present, untainted bread must be substituted. Great attention should be paid to the nutrition of the patient, and the use of strong coffee is highly recommended as an antidote. When gangrene has set in, the patient must be kept in bed, and the part disinfected and kept aseptic and dry ; before deciding on amputation, a line of demarcation should be waited for, because it is impossible to say how much of the tissue will die. As a rule, the line of demarcation is permanent when it has once formed, and therefore, the best method of fashioning the flaps can be decided upon and amputation performed without any further delay as soon as it is well-marked. INFECTIVE . GANGRENE. The third great group of gangrene is that due to specific infective organisms. In former days, a variety of gangrenous processes attacked wounds as the result of sepsis, but they are seldom seen now. It will be sufficient if we speak here of three forms of specific gangrene, namely : (i) acute traumatic gangrene ; (2) phagedena; and (3) cancrum oris or noma.