177 BURNS AND SCALDS bined with efforts to promote the oxygenation of the blood. Most benefit will be obtained from the inhalation of oxygen ; and until this can be obtained, artificial respiration by Sylvester's method must be carried out if the breathing shows any tendency to tlag. If a cylinder of oxygen can be obtained, one end of an indiarubbei tube should be attached to it and the other to the mouthpiece of an ordinary Clover's inhaler, a glass funnel, or a piece of brown paper folded into a cone ; the oxygen is then turned on and made to pour over the patient's nose and mouth. The mouthpiece should be removed every ten minutes or a quarter of an hour for a minute or two, but the inhalation must be kept up for twelve to twentj'-four hours, until, in fact, a sufficient number of new blood- corpuscles have been formed to act as carriers of oxygen. Transfusion of blood has been suggested, but it seems that the blood-corpuscles thus introduced do not retain their vitality for any length of time, and act only very temporarily, if at all, as carriers of oxygen to the tissues. As a stimulant, caffeine given subcutaneously in doses of one grain or more, with an equal quantity of salicylate of soda, and repeated in three or four hours, is of use ; brandy will also be called for. If symptoms of internal congestion or iiiflajiiinaiion set in after the patient recovers from the shock, the treatment must be conducted partly on the lines indicated for acute inflammation and partly on those appropriate to the organ affected. During the stages of sloughing and convalescence, it is necessary to support the patient's strength by the administration of a nutritious diet and the use of stimulants and tonics. Blaud's pill (ten grains three times a day) or tinct. ferri perchlor. (ten to fifteen minims three times a day) may be given ; quinine (three grains thrice daily) is also of value. Local Treatment.—The local treatment may be considered in connection with the various degrees of burn. In the First Degree the erythema which occurs from radiant heat requires little treatment. The chief trouble complained of is the sensation of heat and burning in the part, and the use of some soothing application, such as cold cream or glycerine, which also acts by protecting the surface from contact with the air, will often relieve it ; if not, lead or lead and opium lotion (see p. 9) will be efficacious. In the Second Degree, bhsters should be punctured at the most dependent spot, and their contents let out. The epidermis should not be clipped away, and the incision should be just large enough to allow the fluid to escape ; if the blister be opened freely the epi- dermis is apt to peel off, exposing the papillary layer of the skin, causing a good deal of pain, and retarding the healing. When the injury has not gone beyond the fomiation of blisters, it is unneces- sary to use antiseptic lotions, because the denudation of the papillary layer does not entail any serious risk of sepsis ; it is best to apply an antiseptic ointment over the blisters after they have been pricked.