494 EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD the field it is necessary to count 104 fields and multiply the result by 100, or 52 fields and multiply by 200 to get the number per cubic miUimetre. It is necessary to clean the haemocytometer pipette immediately after use. It is first washed out once or twice with clean water, the fluid being sucked up in the ordinary way, and expelled by being blown out by means of an india-rubber ball, such as is attached to throat sprays. It is then washed out with absolute alcohol or rectified spirit in the same way, and then with ether, and after this has been expelled by the india- rubber puffer a stream of air is pumped through gently until the interior of the whole apparatus is quite dry. This is indicated by the fact that the glass ball in the mixing chamber elicits a clear ringing sound when the pipette is shaken. In health the leucocytes range between four and ten thousand per cubic millimetre, or may even rise as high as twelve thousand after a meal. The presence of an abnormally high number is termed leucocyiosis, and this occurs in a large number of conditions. Thus after any severe haemorrhage, in malignant disease, or in cachexia of any kind, there is usually a moderate leucocytosis, and the numbers may rise to 20,000 or even higher. There is frequently a rise immediately before death (agonal leucocytosis), a fact which has occasionally to be remembered in inter- preting the result of a blood-count in a severe illness. The facts mentioned above are occasionally of value in diagnosis (thus the presence of a marked leucocytosis in a patient suffering from a tumour is some evidence of its malignancy), but the greatest value of the leucocyte count to the surgeon arises from the increased counts present in infective diseases, especially in abscess formation. It is a general rule that there is a leucocytosis in most infective diseases, the most important exceptions being tuberculosis, typhoid fever, measles, and malaria. In most of the others the toxins produced by the infective agent are absorbed into the blood and attract the leucocytes (by positive chemotaxis) from the bone-marrow in increased numbers ; the marrow is also stimulated, and the cells are produced in excess. The conditions in which a high leucocytosis occurs are therefore (i) a great production of bacterial toxins, (2) their passage into the blood. To these we must add (3) a certain degree of resistance on the part of the patient: if the intoxication is extremely severe or the patient's resistance low the leuco- cytes will be decreased instead of being raised in numbers. This pheno- menon is rare, and it is usual to find a leucocytosis even in severe infections; its occasional occurrence hardly detracts from the value of the sign, since these cases are commonly diagnosed without difficulty, and yield, moreover, the other blood-signs of an acute infection. The practical application is best seen in the diagnosis of the presence or absence of pus in acute appendicitis or similar inflammatory condi- tions. Here there is a decided rise in almost every case, whatever the exact nature of the pathological conditions, but this rise is usually