TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS 155 been made aseptic must come in contact either with the wound, the instruments, or the hands that are introduced mto the wound, he will be sure to go wrong eventually. A preliminary bacteriological trainmg is of incalculable advantage, for with it the manipulations necessary to secure asepsis become automatic, and the surgeon is thus enabled to concentrate his undivided attention upon the operation. Treatment when Sepsis occurs.—The onset of sepsis is indicated by pain and tluobbing in the wound. The reactionary temperature com- monly met with after severe aseptic operations, instead of falling in from twenty-four to thirty-six hours, continues to rise, and all the symptoms of pyrexia set in. When this febrile condition has set in, the wound should be examined at once, and if red, tender, or swollen, should be opened up and proper drainage provided. The degree to which the wound should be opened up must be judged separately for each case, as it frequently happens that the suppuration is due to an organism of low virulence, and the removal of a stitch, followed by the insertion of a small drainage-tube at the most dependent part of the wound will suffice to meet all the requirements of the case. It would be a mistake to lay open the entire wound because there is slight infection at one point. As a rule it is not advisable to wash out a wound in this condition, although this is done by some surgeons. Washing out a septic wound with antiseptics will not arrest the infection, and it can only irritate and damage the inflamed tissues, and possibly precipitate the entrance of micro-organisms into the system. Provided there be a free exit for pus, it is best not to wash out, squeeze or irritate the wound in any way. The only exception to this rule is in large cavities, when there is reason to believe that the symptoms are mainly due to septic intoxication—that is to say, absorption of poisonous chemical products, and not true general bacterial infection. Under such circumstances it is well to wash away the septic fluid in the wound with sterilised saUne solution or with a solution of peroxide of hydrogen (lo vols.). This is not done with the view of killing bacteria, but of removing the poisonous chemical products which are being absorbed, and are producing the symptoms. It is well to go on with the, antiseptic dressings already described (see p. 150) ; they should be changed once daily, or oftener, but there is no need to continue the irrigation after all the decomposing blood-clot has been washed away. When no general infection has occurred, or is about to take place, the temperature falls, and the other general and local conditions improve within a few hours after a free exit has been provided for the discharge. In the course of a few days suppuration ceases and the discharge becomes serous; if everything goes well, the drainage-tube may be left out in from ten to fourteen days. When, on the other hand, the temperature keeps up and the other symptoms continue, the suspicion is aroused either that there is some recess in the wound from which the discharge is