SCOLIOSIS 413 on either arm. Massage of the back muscles, with appHcations of sea- water douches is of vahie. Tiie massage should be done for about a quarter of an hour at a time night and morning, and should be followed by a sea-water douche. Special care is needed in the case of rapidly growing girls who are nearing the period of puberty. All heavy or constricting garments about the chest or abdomen which interfere with the free play of the thoracic, abdominal, and spinal muscles should be forbidden, and the child should be encouraged to play games, to lead a healthy outdoor life, and to go through a mild gymnastic course. Sedentary habits, the desire to remain in the house in the recumbent position reading novels should be checked, and in fact the life of the two sexes should be assimilated as much as possible. Girls who ride on horseback, and in whom there is any tendency to curvature, should ride astride or upon a reversible saddle so that the e.xercise can be taken on alternate sides ; the rides should never be long enough to produce fatigue. Corsets of any kind are bad, and if employed should not be allowed to compress the chest. This is about the period of life at which curvature is apt to occur as a result of faulty position. Some attention has been directed to the possibility of producing lateral curvature by faulty positions during sleep. Many children sleep upon the back, and this is obviously the best position. A large number, however, lie upon one side, and it has been said that, if a child is in the habit of lying more upon one side than the other, this may produce curvature of the spine. This is probably an exaggerated view, but it is well to encourage sleeping upon alternate sides if the child be unable to sleep upon the back. The mattress should be lirm and a feather-bed should be avoided ; the head should not be raised unduly. The positions usually adopted by children at school when sitting at a desk, writing, reading, or drawing, or when playing the piano, are often faulty, and calculated to produce scoliosis. The child is generally either seated upon a form without any back, or upon a chair, the back of which is too straight and not high enough, whilst the seat is too far from the ground, and there is a want of proportion between the height of the desk and the chair or form upon which the child sits. The result is that the child soon gets tired, brings the pelvis to the edge of the chair in order to enable the feet to touch the ground and support him, and he is often obliged to tilt the pelvis in order to bring one foot into contact with the floor. The spine is thus unsupported, and the child either stoops forward or bends to one side so as to rest his elbow upon the desk at which he is writing. The want of proper proportion between the height of the seat and the desk plays a very important part, for, when the desk is too high, the right arm has to be unduly elevated if the child wishes to write, whilst if the desk be too low it has to be unduly depressed and the left shoulder