GENU VALGUM 375 boot below and which therefore prevents rotation. This necessitates the child wearing a boot both day and night, but this is no great objection. The knee is drawn outwards against the splint by means of a broad elastic sling (see Fig. 125). Children are often allowed to walk wearing an apparatus which allows the knee joint to be bent and which, at the same time, is supposed to pull the knee outwards, but these splints are ineiticient ; they are too heavy for the weakly children who have to wear them, they are expensive and they do not exert much influence upon the deformity. Indeed, considering the satisfactory results of operative interference and the infinitesimal risk attaching to it, it is better to operate at once, when it is essential for the child's comfort that he should walk, and when he cannot do so without an apparatus of this kind. F"or patients to whom the expense of these forms of apparatus is prohibitive, a simple wooden splint yields very fair results. Two pieces of wood about two inches wide and long enough to extend from the groin to four inches below the sole are padded with tow or dressmaker's cotton-wool and covered with some firm fabric. One of these splints is fastened to the inner aspect of each limb with three of the straps and buckles usually used for carrying books ; one strap is placed around the thigh at the upper part of the splint, a second just above the knee joint, and the third just above the ankle joint ; the whole sphnt is then further secured by a flannel bandage applied from below upwards. The object of these splints is to prevent the child from walking or sitting with the legs curled up. This is usually quite sufficient to rectify the deformity in all but the severest cases, and the improvement is often very marked in a few weeks. If the splints do not restrain the child and he persists in walking on their ends, they may be made of unequal length. The mechanical treatment of genu valgum, whether in a child or an adult, must be persisted in for a long time. It must not be given up until the active stage of rickets has passed off and the softening of the bones has disappeared ; then there is not much chance of further increase in the deformity. The active period of rickets generally lasts until the child is about four years old, and the deformity will certainly recur if the apparatus be left off before this, even though it may have disappeared Fig. 125.—Splint for use in Genu Valgum. As this necessitates the wearing of a boot, it is more suit- able for older children. It is more powerful and effectually prevents cither flexion of the knee or rotation of the limb. (Modified from//o;y(!.)