233 CHRONIC ABSCESS Various other methods maybe employed to remove the chronic inflam- mation ; the actual cautery (see p. 20) is of value in many cases of deep- seated bone and joint disease ; pressure is also of use and may be employed in combination with counter-irritation, as by Scott's dressing (see p. 23), or alone, by wrapping the joint in a large mass of wool and then applying a firm bandage over it. The various measures for combating chronic inflammation are fully described in Chapter I. CHRONIC ABSCESS. A chronic abscess is usually tuberculous in nature ; in it an abscess forms without any of the cardinal symptoms of inflammation except the swelling, pain is absent or very slight, there is not necessarily any pyrexia, though the affected area may feel warmer than the surrounding parts, and there is no redness of the skin over the seat of the disease, unless the skin itself be involved. The swelling is caused by the presence of fluid, and differs entirely from the brawny swelling that is met with in acute abscesses. A chronic subcutaneous abscess begins as a small tuberculous nodule which gradually increases in size, undergoes caseation, and softens in the centre. When this occurs, the inflammation around becomes a little more active, and there is an effusion of fluid, along with a considerable number of white blood corpuscles, mainly lymphocytes, into the cheesy material ; the result being an investing layer of tuberculous tissue containing fluid mi.xed with broken-down cheesy material, disintegrated tissue, and lymphocytes. The essential part of a chronic abscess is its wall, and to this any curative treatment must be particularly directed. This wall consists of two distinct strata—an inner of soft granulation-tissue which can be readily scraped away with a sharp spoon, and an outer fibrous layer which can only be removed with a knife or scissors. There is no sharp line of demarcation between these two layers, and the outer one often merges into the surrounding tissue. The mere evacuation of the contents of a chronic abscess will not necessarily lead to a subsidence of the disease, as it does in an acute one. The tubercle bacilli and the tubercles themselves are present in the abscess wall, and all that is evacu- ated when the abscess is incised is broken-down caseous material, along with the fluid and leucocytes that have passed into it as the result of the inflammation around. Even if the abscess be curetted, the disease may not be removed entirely, as there are bacilli in the dense fibrous layer of the wall which remains behind. TREATMENT.—The treatment must be directed to the wall of the abscess, and this is done in various ways. Excision.—When the abscess is small and subcutaneous, the simplest plan is to excise it with its contents intact, as if it were a sebaceous cyst. Similarly, when the abscess is connected with a gland, and even