DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES 283 the instep and acts as a fulcrum. An elastic band runs from the posterior end of the splint over the outer side of the foot, around the ankle, and down over the inner side, where it is fastened to a hook on the vertical piece or fulcrum. The effect of this is to draw the posterior end of the splint outwards towards the heel, whereby the front portion, and with it the great toe, is carried inwards, and the faulty position rectified. The apparatus will go inside a boot of fair size, and most patients can wear it and walk without marked inconvenience. Any apparatus for the correc- tion of this deformity must be worn by night as well as by day, for if it be discarded at night, the toe tends to assume the faulty position again, and the cure is retarded. Should there be any tenderness of the joint or inflammation of the bursa over it in these milder cases, the application of lead or lead and opium lotion, with the foot in the elevated position, usually reduces it rapidly. When the deformity is more severe, and the patient suffers considerable pain, it is best to adopt operative measures at once, for apparatus is not likely to do much good and only acts as an additional impediment to locomotion ; the permanent enlargement of the bone, which is the chief cause of the trouble, cannot be diminished by any- thing short of operation. In addition to this also, the bursa over the joint will probably have undergone a series of attacks of inflammation and its walls will be permanently thickened, so that palliative measures are not likely to give more than temporary relief. Of the operative procedures employed for the cure of hallux valgus we prefer the following. After thorough disinfection of the part, an incision is made along the inner border of the dorsum of the toe, from just beyond the articular surface of the head of the metatarsal bone back- wards to half an inch behind the point at which the enlargement of the bone ceases. The incision should be convex upwards, but its extremities should not be carried too far down towards the plantar surface for fear of subsequent pain in the scar (see Fig. 84). A flap is turned down so A B Fig. 83.—Bunion Spring. The spring is applied to the foot as shown in A and the great toe secured to it. The fulcrum of the lever a rests immediately behind the enlarged head of the metatarsal. The band at the pos- terior end of the spring is then carried outwards across the sole at right angles, across the front of the instep, round behind the ankle and downwards again across the front of the instep to the inner border of the foot, where it is attached to the fulcrum a ■ this is shown in B. Sufficient traction must be exerted on the band to pull the toe into position; if this cause pain, as much traction must be employed as can be borne with comfort, and this can be gradually increased. The boots in which these springs are worn should have specially stout soles so as to avoid all risk of breakage. (Krohne and Scscmann.)