TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS 159 two flaps, ACca and BDdb, are dissected up and can be made to meet in the middle of the defect. Where the defect is triangular, say an equilateral triangle, and the raw area is small, it may suffice to make an incision which prolongs one side only, the extension being about double the length of that side (see Fig. 54). The triangular flap thus marked out is dissected up along with the fat, when the point B can generally be stitched to the point A. If, however, the defect be large, the sides may be made to meet by forming a second similar flap on the other side—that is to say, by extending one side in both directions. These two flaps will then meet in the middle line and can be sewn together (see Fig. 54). In many cases, however, especially when the triangular space is large, A B b a A B fa C D d c C D d Fig. 53.—How to Fill a Quadrilateral Defect by Means of a Plastic Operation.—The details are given in the text. On the left-hand side Is shown the method of filling a small defect, on the right-hand side, a large one. A B Fig. 54.—How to Fill in a Triangular Defect by Fig. 55-—How to Fill in a Trian- Means of Plastic Operation.—The steps of the operation cular Defect by Means of Curved are given in the text. Incisions.—The dotted lines represent the curved incisions. the incisions for the flaps should be curved, and, in the case of irregular defects much better results will be obtained by the use of curved incisions than by straight ones. When it is necessary to remove the lower lip, this is usually done by taking out a V-shaped piece, the apex of the V being towards the chin. To fill up the gap thus made, a large curved incision should be made, beginning at the angle of the mouth, running down over the jaw on to the neck, and curving inwards towards the upper part of the larynx. When the whole lip has been removed, a similar incision is made on each side. The incision goes through the whole thickness of the cheek ; when it passes on to the neck, the skin and superficial fascia alone are dissected up. When the flaps have been raised sufficiently, the curved incisions allow them to slide inwards, so that the two sides of the triangular defect meet in a vertical line, and may be stitched together ; a few points of suture are then put in along the curved lines of incision (see Fig. 55).