GANGRENE 8i Forbidden. Farinaceous foods of all kinds (bread only in very small quantity accord- ing to the discretion of the physician) ; sugar; potatoes, rice, tapioca, arrowroot, sago, groats; peas, beans ; sweet fruits, as grapes, cherries, peaches, apricots, plums, and all kinds of dried fruits. BEVERAGES. Champagne and sweet wines and beers, must, fruit wines and fruit juices and syrups ; sweet lemonade ; liqueurs ; ices and sorbets ; cocoa and chocolate. Opium, or still better, codeine, should be administered in large quantities. The codeine is given in doses of a quarter of a grain three time a day, which is gradually increased up to five grains. Stimulants may also be necessary if the pulse is becoming weak, and the patient exhausted ; the best are dry wines, such as dry sherry or whisky in small quantities ; sweet wines should be strictly avoided. Local.—Question of Amputation.—This arises at an early period. Formerly the rule was not to amputate in diabetic gangrene, partly on account of the great tendency to inflammation and suppuration in the stump, leading to extension of the gangrene, and partly owing to the risk of death from diabetic coma. This rule, however, has been com- pletely altered by the introduction of antiseptic measures, and from recent work it seems quite evident that the best treatment in most cases is early amputation. If left alone, the majority of patients die. By strict asepsis inflammation in the stump is avoided, septic troubles are prevented, and an extension of the gangrene does not occur if the amputation be performed sufficiently high up. For example, if the gangrene has only extended to the foot, the amputation may be carried out at the seat of election or a Lister's amputation in the lower part of the leg may be performed, provided that there be no marked arterial change and no evidence of pus spreading up the leg. If either of these com- plications be present, the amputation should be performed through the condyles of the femur or in the lower third of the thigh. The principal risk is from diabetic coma. The risk of this very fatal comphcation is undoubtedly increased to some extent by the use of an anesthetic, more especially of chloroform ; for this reason many surgeons prefer to employ spinal aucesthesia (see p. 486). On the other hand, the patient is not really more liable to an attack of diabetic coma after amputation per se than he is during the course of the gangrene. In any case the risk of operation is not so great as the risk the patient runs if left unoperated upon. Gangrene after Acute Fevers.—Gangrene from this cause is some- times a sequela of typhoid fever, and attacks the extremities and I. G