TALIPES EQUINUS 329 In the more severe cases, in which there is an interval of two inches or more between the divided ends of the tendon when the foot is fully plantar- flexed, the uniting medium between the cut ends would probably be thin and soft if the deformity were corrected immediately, and there would certainly be a risk of imperfect union ; in other words, a condition of talipes calcaneus might be substituted for that of cquinus. Under these circumstances, therefore, the limb should be put on a splint in the uncor- rected position and left for three days, so as to allow plastic material to be poured out between the divided ends. On the third day a slight correction of the position may be made, and a slight further correction is made every day until the foot has been brought to a right angle at the end of a week or ten days. In another week or ten days this is increased up to the extreme limit of dorsal flexion, so that the deformity is fully over- corrected. A plaster of Paris casing is then applied for three weeks, after which the Sayre's apparatus (Fig. 104), massage and exercises may be employed, just as in the milder cases. In these cases also a surgical boot should be substituted for the Sayre's apparatus after the latter has been worn for a month or six weeks, and if these precautions be followed, the uniting material between the cut ends of the tendo Achillis will be as broad and firm as it is in the milder cases, and the limb will be thoroughly useful. When all the muscles that produce dorsi-flexion of the foot are para- lysed and do not show any sign of recovery after division of the tendo Achillis and correction of the equinus, there will be a continual tendency for the toes to drop and the equinus to recur. This must be guarded against either by making the patient wear a surgical boot [vide supra) indefinitely or by transplantation or grafting of the tendon of a healthy muscle, such as the tibialis posticus, on to the front of the foot, so as to make it act as a dorsi-flexing agent. The subject of transplantation of muscles is dealt with in connection with the affections of muscles. In the second group of cases, in which changes other than the shortening of the calf muscles occur, the secondary contractions must be remedied before the tendo Achillis is divided. The most important contraction is that of the plantar fascia, the dense central portion of which is most commonly affected. Division of the plantar fascia should be practised and the foot unfolded some weeks before the tenotomy of the tendo Achillis is done. Should the latter structure be divided at the same time as the plantar fascia, it will be difficult to stretch the sole sufficiently, because the heel is not fixed and purchase cannot be taken from it ; if the tendon be left undivided, a satisfactory point d'appiii is obtained. The plantar fascia is divided by putting the sole of the foot firmly upon the stretch, and dividing all the contracted bands with a tenotomy knife as far back towards the heel as is convenient. The patient is anaesthetised, and special care is taken in the disinfection on account of the thick skin in this region ; the anterior