225 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS period. In obstinate cases, and particularly in tertiary bone lesions, much advantage may be gained by excising and scraping away the gummatous material in the same way as tuberculous tissue is treated, but in most instances the lesions rapidly disappear when iodide of potassium and mercury are administered simultaneously. Sulphur Baths and Spas have a considerable vogue in the treatment of syphilis, and a visit to Aix-la-Chapelle is frequently advised. These waters, however, have no specific effect on syphilis, and the benefit derived from a visit to Aix is due to the careful antisyphiUtic treatment carried out there and to the fact that the patient gives himself up entirely to the treatment. The hot baths help the action of the antisyphilitic remedies to a certain extent, and some of the benefit is also due to the complete rest and absence of worry. A nervous overworked business man with an obstinate syphilitic affection may be sent to Aix, Wildbad, or some similar place with advantage, but it would be wrong to put patients of moderate or limited means to the expense of going there. The best time for a visit to Aix-la-ChapeUe is May or June, but it is open all the year round. An important question is, hoiv long the mevcufy should be coniinued, for there seems good reason to believe that, in the milder cases of syphilis at all events, an actual cure may be brought about by careful treatment ; at any rate tertiary symptoms may never supervene. Everyone is agreed that the mercury should be continued in as large doses as possible without producing salivation, at least until the secondary symptoms, for which it is administered, have subsided, and for two or three weeks afterwards. Also, that when fresh symptoms appear, mercury should be again administered as before. It is now, however, a generally accepted view that the treatment with small doses of mercury (about one-third of the dose required to produce the physiological action) should be per- sisted in after the symptoms have subsided. Should these recur, the full dose is again resorted to. On pp. 220-3 we have given tables showing the periods for which mercury is administered by the officers of the R.A.M.C. and the intervals between the administrations. These may be taken as fairly typical of the general body of opinion as to the duration of the mercurial course, which it will be seen from a reference to these tables is spread over a period of about two years. It must, however, be understood that the administration of mercury must be continuous in the first instance until the physiological action is produced, and that on any subsequent appearance of symptoms the dose must be again raised until the gums become sore. It is very difficult to say when a patient can consider himself cured, and it is to be hoped that recent work upon the serum diagnosis will be able to afford a definite answer to this question. Fournier considers that a patient may be allowed to marry when he has undergone a full course of treatment (about two years), when he has had no symptoms for at I- Q