TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS i6i because it injures the vitality of the granulation-cells, and thus interferes with their power of destroying the virulent organisms on the surface ; moreover, granulating wounds treated with carbolic acid absorb much more readily than when treated in other ways. When the discharge is foul, iodoform is often useful. This drug is not to be recommended as an antiseptic for a freshly made wound when the surgeon is able to take all the precautions necessary to prevent the entrance of micro-organisms, but when applied to a putrefying sore it does exert antiseptic properties ; it then seems to break up the toxins, and in doing so becomes decomposed itself and free iodine is liberated. Hence, by destroying the products of the bacteria in septic wounds, the drug takes away their weapons, so to speak, while at the same time the iodine liberated inhibits the growth of the bacteria or may even destroy them. Iodoform should always be disinfected beforehand by immersing it in a I in 20 carbolic acid solution for several days, straining it through sterilised muslin, and then drying it in a jar to which bacteria cannot gain access. When granulation is complete and the febrile condition has passed off, mild antiseptic dressings, such as antiseptic ointments, or the boric lint and protective dressing (see p. 51), may be employed. The ung. borici or ung. eucalypti is the most suitable ointment to use ; the former should be of the full pharmacopoeial strength at first, but when healing is commencing, half-strength should be substituted, because the full-strength ointment seems to be too irritating for the young epithelial cells, and prevents the cicatrisation of the wound. If the wound be large, skin-grafting may be employed in about a fortnight ; the procedure is similar to that for grafting an ulcer (see p. 52). TREATMENT OF WOUNDS THAT CANNOT BE KEPT ASEPTIC. Wounds made by the surgeon which not only involve the skin, but communicate with one of the mucous canals or with a septic cavitj^ cannot be kept aseptic. It is impossible, for example, to exclude bacteria from a wound in the mouth, seeing that they are everywhere present in the fluids on the surface of the mucous membrane. The problem, therefore, is not how to exclude them, but how to minimise their deleterious action. Wounds of Mucous Membranes.—In the first place, it is important that the manipulations during the operation should be gentle ; in other words, the vitality of the tissues must be interfered with as little as possible. Union by first intention is not always obtained in wounds involving the mucous membranes, but is often highly desirable, especially in such operations as staphylorrhaphy, etc. In order to I. M