473 DIFFICULTIES AND DANGERS If this be done, it will soon be seen that signs of danger may very readily be grouped under three heads, namely :— (1) Symptoms in which cardiac failure or syncope is the prominent feature. (Pallor, pulse gradually becoming imperceptible ; pupil slowly dilating ; respirations unaltered at first, but gradually failing, though seldom abolished completely.) Generally to be looked for in the earlier stages of anaesthesia ; often the precursor sickness. As a rule, easily recoverable. (2) Symptoms in which the respiratory failure is the most prominent feature. (Respirations early affected, feeble, and shallow ; pallor, often of the ashy-grey type ; pulse fairly good at first, but slowly failing ; pupils quickly dilating.) A condition of the middle and late stages, and tending to merge into (3) Simultaneous or almost simultaneous, sudden, and complete cessa- tion of both circulation and respiration, with fades hippocratica, suddenly and widely dilated pupils. May occur early (syncope) or late (toxic overdose). A very serious condition ; when fully developed in the earlier stages of anaesthesia, it is doubtful if recovery be possible. Treatment.—Reference has already been made (see p. 456) to the treatment to be adopted when, in ether anaesthesia, the muco-salivary secre- tion becomes excessive, and to the treatment of spasm of the glottis. The treatment of other forms of gross asphyxia is so perfectly obvious, that it may be dismissed in a very few words. If, with a patient sitting up, as for nitrous oxide anaesthesia, blood or a foreign body, such as a tooth, slips back into the larynx, the body of the patient should be bent sharply forward so as to bring the head over the knees ; coughing should be en- couraged by smartly patting the back, and by passing the finger into the throat to irritate the vocal cords. This latter manoeuvre may reveal the presence of the foreign body itself, and an attempt may be made to remove it by means of the laryngeal forceps; if this attempt do not succeed, the advisability of performing tracheotomy, or even better, laryngo- tomy, must be considered. Of course, in many cases, this operation would be performed by the operating surgeon, but the administrator should always be provided with suitable instruments, for occasion may arise, e.g. in dental work, in which they may be urgently called for and when the anaesthetist may himself have to operate. In any event, the responsi- bility rests with the anaesthetist. In respect to the other symptoms mentioned above, it must be borne in mind that, although in some instances their development is almost unavoidable, yet in many if not in the majority of the cases in which they are very pronounced, the}- can be traced to some error of omission or com- mission on the part of the anaesthetist. It may not, therefore, be out of