478 ANESTHETICS for nitrous oxide; the following remarks are intended only for the major anaesthetics. In dressing a case after operation, care should be exercised that the bandages, etc., do not impede the breathing. This is particularly neces- sary in operations about the head and neck, and it comes within the pro- vince of the administrator to see that no trouble arises from this cause. In these cases the bandages should be firmly applied, while the neck is fully extended; the pressure will not then be too great when the neck is restored to position. In ordinary cases, the patient may be put back to a warm bed before he completely recovers consciousness. In making the transfer, however, care should be taken not to jolt him, and especially not to elevate the head and chest; in going upstairs, therefore, he should be carried on a stretcher, feet first, with his head down. The room should be of a tem- perature of about 65°-70° F., and the bed carefully screened from draughts. If ether has been employed, and perhaps in all cases, it is better, if the surgeon will permit, that the patient be turned upon the right side ; this facilitates the escape of mucus, and I think lessens the sickness. The nurse should be warned that if sickness occur, the patient is not to sit up, but to be turned on his side, and, if need be, the jaw must be pushed forward to facilitate the escape of the vomited matter. The anaesthetist should assure himself that his patient is on the high road to recovery before he leaves the patient's side, but on the other hand, natural sleep is to be encouraged ; if, when taken at intervals of two or three minutes, the pulse and respiration are found to be good and improving, it may fairly be assumed that, as far as the anaesthetic is concerned, the patient is safe. In any event, whether the case is a severe one or not, the patient should always have a responsible attendant at his bedside for an hour or two after the operation has been completed. Sickness.—As soon as he is sufficiently conscious to be able to do so, the patient should be encouraged to rinse out his mouth and throat frequently with warm water. If retching and vomiting occur early, in the semi-unconscious condition, they are less distressing to the patient than might be supposed; when he becomes fully conscious he seldom retains any recollection of his previous misery. Nevertheless, attempts should be made to ameliorate his condition. Sips of water as hot as can be borne, or even fuU draughts of half a tumblerful, are often successful; strong, hot, black coffee is good in some cases; 15-20 grains of bicarbonate of soda in a tumblerful of hot water is good in others ; ice to suck is the routine treatment, and is very comforting to the patient; strychnine in 5-minim doses of the liquor by the mouth or hypodeiTnically, has been recommended; bromide of potassium 20 grains and chloral hydrate 15 grains dissolved in 2 ounces of water and passed into the rectum immediately after the operation is said to act very well in some cases ;