ANESTHETICS 452 amount of oxygen is increased by a hole or two at a time as the inhalation proceeds. The indications for removing the facepiece are a faint stertor, fixation of the eyeball, and insensibility of the conjunctivae. The method is most suited for elderly or anasmic subjects or those whose circulatory or respiratory systems are feeble, but the apparatus is cumbersome, and unpleasant after-effects are rather more likely to follow than when nitrous oxide is administered in the ordinary way. The period of available anaesthesia may also be prolonged by mixing the gas with some other and more powerful anajsthetic, such as ether. This is what is known as the ' combined ' or ' gas-and-ether ' method of anaesthesia, which will be referred to after the administration of ether has been described (see p. 457). ADMINISTRATION OF ETHER. Properties.—Ethylic or sulphuric ether (QHinO) is a Hquid of which the spec. grav. should be 0720; it is neutral to test-paper, and leaves neither stain nor smell when burnt off or evaporated. It is usually re- commended to employ only that made from absolute alcohol; but many excellent brands are now on the market, which, if carefully selected, seem unobjectionable. The so-called ' anaesthetic ether ' of chemists is intended only for freezing, and should never be used for inhalation. Ether vapour is highly inflammable, and even explosive when mixed with air or nitrous oxide. Over 30 per cent, of the vapour is necessary to produce narcosis within a reasonable time. Cases Suitable.—It is considered by many that ether should be em- ployed whenever an aneesthetic is called for ; practically, the only excep- tions which are then admitted are those in which bronchitis or some other acute lung trouble is present, or when, as in operations about the mouth, it is either physically impossible to apply the facepiece, or else there is some danger that the actual cautery will ignite the vapour. For the reasons given above (see p. 446), this universal use of ether is at first likely to prove disappointing to those not thoroughly accustomed to the drug. When only occasionally called upon to anaesthetise, it is better for the administrator to limit his use of ether in accordance with the suggestions already made (see p. 447). If these lists be carefully studied, it will be seen that ether is not recommended for children under twelve, or for adults over sixty ; nor for the fat and plethoric ; nor for those suffering from gross cerebral lesions ; nor in cases of lung disease ; nor in acute heart disease, atheroma, or renal disease ; nor in operations about the head and neck, mouth and tongue. At first sight, it may appear that this list of exceptions reduces the available cases to a minimum, but in practice this will not be found to be the case, and, further, it must be pointed out, that in by far the majority of cases the objection applies rather to the primary induction ; in nearly all it is possible to use ether to maintain the anaesthesia. Ether should always be given, if possible, in cases involving much