405 SCOLIOSIS SCOLIOSIS. By scoliosis is understood a lateral deviation of the spine, accom- panied by rotation of the vertebrEe upon their vertical axes ; this latter occurrence is essential for the production of true scoliosis, for it is possible to have a lateral deviation of the spine without rotation of the vertebrje —when the case is strictly one of lateral curvature rather than of true scoliosis. The two terms should be kept distinct, but at the same time it must be remembered that many cases of true scoliosis commence as simple lateral deviation of the spinal column, and the rotation of the vertebrjE only takes place at a later period ; this is particularly the case when the spinal muscles are weak. Simple lateral curvature, if treated sufficiently early, does not necessarily give rise to true scoliosis. CAUSES.—We shall not attempt to go at length into the mechanics of this condition, but various exjieriments seem to prove that the most essential factor in the production of scoliosis is the transmission of the weight of the upper part of the body through a vertebral column, which, by the enfeeblement of its various muscles, or by the habitual mainten- ance of a faulty position, has undergone lateral deviation. The constant pressure acting upon a spinal column so deflected will inevitably produce rotation of the vertebrjE on account of the conformation of the con- stituent parts of the curved spine and their articulations. The condition is predisposed to by any cause of general debility, particularly rickets and anaemia, and is greatly favoured by over-fatigue and the constant assumption of faulty attitudes. The latter, by causing a deviation of the spinal column, place the spinal muscles on one side at a mechanical disadvantage compared with their fellows on the opposite side, and, if a faulty position be assumed habitually, the muscles that are at a mechanical advantage will keep up or even accentuate the curvature, and will eventually produce the rotation of the vertebrae already spoken of. This rotation always takes place in one direction ; the bodies of the vertebrae are rotated outwards towards the convexity of the curve, whilst the spinous and other processes are rotated inwards towards the concavity—i.e. towards the middle line of the body. It will perhaps help to make the matter clear from the point of view of treatment if we classify cases of lateral curvature, according to their causes into four main groups : Cases due to inequality in length of the supports of the spine.— This group is of the highest importance, and embraces many causes which are constantly met with in practice. Unless the base of the support of the spine {i.e. the sacrum) be horizontal, a certain amount of curvature must necessarily result. However slight the obliquity may be, it is sufficient to prove the starting-point of a severe scoliosis in sus- ceptible subjects. In strong healthy persons, on the other hand, this