369 CURVED TIBIA AND FIBULA point of greatest curvature for a distance that will vary with the amount of bone requiring removal. The periosteum is separated on each side by a rugine, and then a wedge of bone is removed by means of a chisel; a simple method of procedure is to use a saw for marking oirt the portion of bone to be removed, and to complete the division with the chisel. This is preferable to using the saw throughout, as there is some danger of injuring the structures of the calf when the posterior surface of the tibia is divided. After enough bone has been removed to allow the limb to be brought straight, the wound is stitched up and the dressings are apphed. It is seldom necessary to fasten the fragments together, but, in cases of marked antero-posterior bending just above the ankle, it is sometimes of advan- tage to do this in order to prevent the foot from falling back. In these cases also it is sometimes well to divide the tendo Achillis, which would otherwise have a great tendency to pull the heel back. Fig. 123.—Method of putting up the Limb after Osteotomy of the Tibia. For the sake of clearness no dressings are shown applied to the limb. There is one fairly long pad (c) applied over the convexity of the curve, and two small thick ones (a and b) on the opposite side of tlie limb, between the spint and the inner condyle of the femur above, and the inner malleolus below. When linear osteotomy is preferred to the cuneiform variety, it is well, if possible, to make the section of the bone as oblique as possible, so as to get a broader surface for union, and in Fig. 122 is illustrated a method by which this oblique section can be so adapted to different curvatures as to allow the deformity to be reduced with the least separation of the bony surfaces. After-treatment.—The limb should be put up on a splint, and for this purpose we generally employ a trough of Gooch's splinting (see Fig. 123) for the first few days until the wound has healed and tlie stitches are removed. The splint is wide enough to surround rather more than half the limb, and extends from the fold of the buttock, where it is cut away obliquely from within outwards and upwards, to well below the foot. A portion should be cut out opposite the heel so that no injurious pressure shall be exerted, but in small children this need not be done, as the padding may be so arranged that the heel is pushed somewhat forward and does not press upon the splint. The limb is made to fit the splint by packing pads of suitable size and shape on each side and behind the limb, which I. B B