85 GANGRENE The general condition of the patient needs the most careful attention. Stimulants, strychnine and tonics should be freely administered, and every effort made to maintain the patient's strength. Cancrum Oris.—Cancrum oris is a disease affecting children, and beginning in the mouth or the vulva (when it is termed 'noma'). It generally attacks weakly children of from two to hve years of age, who are convalescing from some other affection, such as measles or scar- latina. In the mouth, it usually begins in the gums ; the ]iatient com- plains of pain, the breath becomes foetid, and there is increased flow of saliva. Ulceration then occurs about the gums, a black spot appears inside the cheek, and this extends through the cheek ; a slough forms, and large portions of the jaw and cheek may be destroyed. The patient's general condition is very serious, the temperature is high, and death usually occurs in from three to four days. The disease is due to long delicate bacilli which are found in large numbers in the slough, and more especially in the living tissues just beyond it. Treatment.—This aims at destroying all the affected parts, and the portions of the living tissues around in which the bacilli are present. All the parts which are gangrenous nuist be clipped away ; not only the soft parts, but the portion of the jaw affected must be removed, and this should be done till a surface is exposed which bleeds everywhere. Pres- sure is applied to arrest the bleeding, and then strong nitric acid is painted over or rubbed into the raw surface with a stout glass rod or a glass brush. The acid is allowed to act for about ten minutes, several fresh applications being repeated during that time. When the surgeon is satisfied that every portion of the disease has been thoroughly destroyed, the action of the acid is arrested by pouring over it a saturated solution of carbonate of soda until the acid is completely neutralised. This may- be presumed when bubbles of carbonic acid gas cease to form. Any- thing short of this treatment will fail in arresting the disease. To leave the sloughs on the surface and to apply antiseptic w'ashes or strong antiseptics to them is absolutely useless, for the regions in which the organisms are growing are the living tissues just beyond the parts actually dead, and these cannot be reached unless the sloughs be removed first. After the acid has been neutralised, the part should be powdered with iodoform, and full-strength boric ointment spread on butter-cloth applied with boric lint outside it. The mouth (or vagina, in the case of noma) should be washed out with sanitas and water (about i part in 12) several times a day. The wound will begin to granulate in five or six days, and then the half-strength boric ointment may be substi- tuted. Stimulants are necessary, and also nourishing diet, and probably strychnine will be required at first. Great deformities are left after this disease, especially in the cheek, but the treatment of these is dealt with in connection with the plastic smger}' of the face and jaw. In addition to the specific form, two other types of gangrene occur in