TALIPES CALCANEUS 339 kept in a position of equinus for at least six or eight weeks, so as to allow of sound union between the divided ends ; even then great care must be taken not to put strain on it for fear of stretching the uniting material. The patient should not walk for six months after the operation and, when walking is permitted, should be furnished with the apparatus fitted with a stop which prevents the joint being dorsi-flexed beyond a right angle (see p. 336). The calf should be massaged and douched daily, and the Faradic current applied to the muscles. Transplantation of the Insertion of the Tendo Aehillis.—In order to avoid the risk of the union of a divided tendon stretching subsequently, some surgeons alter the bony attachment of the tendo Achilhs to the os calcis. When the nutrition of the leg is faulty, and when, therefore, the union in such a slightly vascular structure as tendon might be imperfect, a satisfactory result may be obtained by altering the point of insertion of the tendo Aehillis into the os calcis. The objection to this plan is, however, that the amount of shortening obtained by its means is comparatively limited, and the method is only of real value when the degree of calcaneus is very moderate. Two operations have been recommended (see Fig. 113) ; in the first, a flap with its convexity upwards is raised over the heel, and dis- sected downwards so as to expose the whole of the posterior part of the OS calcis. A saw is then applied transversely to the upper surface of the bone immediately in front of the tendon, and, by a vertical cut, a thin slice of the bone, with the attachment of the tendo Aehillis to it, is sawn off. This slice of bone is pulled down until the insertion of the tendon is as low as may be necessary, or as low as possible, and the bone is fixed into its new position by two or three small tacks. The projecting lower portion of the slice of bone is then cut off level with the under surface of the OS calcis. When the deformity is extreme, it has been advised that the upper part of the bone thus sawn off should be turned round at a right angle and applied to a raw surface made by a chisel on the under surface of the OS calcis ; this brings down the insertion of the tendon to the lowest possible point. The results of this plan, however, do not seem to be as satisfactory as those of the preceding one. Fig. 113.—Transi'Lantation of the Tendo Aciiillis. This is a diagrammatic representation of tlie two operations described in the text. In A the slice of the os calcis is drawn down as low as possible and fixed in position with screws : the portion below the dotted line ab is then sawn off. In B further shortening is obtained by turning the slice of bone round at right angles, making a raw surface with a chisel or saw on the under aspect of the os calcis and fastening the shoe of bone down to it.