43 ULCERATION found that the bare granulating surface becomes moist again at once, while the red line around remains dry. "VARIETIES.—Various forms of ulcers are described, of which the following may be mentioned :— Simple Ulcer.—This may be described as a granulating wound which is kept from healing by various local causes, such as pressure, or friction from the dressings, muscular movements, scratching, inter- ference with the vascular supply, chemical agencies, and so forth. In the early stage, the simple ulcer forms a flat sore covered with granu- lations of a yellow or brownish-red colour, on a level with the surround- ing skin or only slightly depressed below it ; its margins are sharply cut and the surrounding parts are slightly oedematous. These ulcers extend fairly rapidly when no proper care is taken. In certain cases, these and other ulcers may become the seat of acute inflammation, and then we have the second form, namely, the inflamed ulcer. Inflamed Ulcer.—This is an ulcer which has become the seat of acute inflammation, as the result of some mechanical or chemical irritation, of bad methods of treatment, or, usually, of septic infection. The sur- face of the ulcer is intensely red and angry-looking, it bleeds readily, secretes a large quantity of pus, extends with great rapidity and is not infrequently covered with small shreds of gangrenous tissue ; the skin around is bright red and oedematous, the borders are irregular and eaten away, and it is not uncommon for fresh ulcers to develop rapidly around the margin of the original sore. These fresh ulcers at first are separated from one another and from the original sore by bridges of skin, which are sometimes quite narrow, intensely inflamed, swollen, and apt to slough. Irritable Ulcer.—This form of ulcer is sometimes met with in neurotic women as a small sore with a somewhat elevated surface, and intensely tender to the slightest touch. It commonly occurs about the external malleolus, and may be associated with menstrual disorders. A similar ulcer may be met with in men, but very rarely. Weak Ulcer.—A simple ulcer is apt to become a weak one either from too small a quantity of blood reaching the part, or from deficient quality of the blood, as for e.xample when ulcerations occur during the progress of some constitutional disease. There are various kinds of weak ulcers, depending upon the cause producing them. In one form, the granulations become smooth and somewhat yellowish, the secretions thin, small in amount and very apt to form a scab, and the edges pale and flat. In a second form, the granulations become oedematous, and this usually happens in connection with some general cause of oedema, or some local interference with the circulation, especially the venous return. In a third form, the granulations show excessive growth ; this generally occurs when the ulceration is due, either to the inability of the sore to contract, or to irritation from the materials used for dressing. In such