78 INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS bath should last about fifteen minutes, and should be repeated daily for the first week ; then three times a day until about a dozen to fifteen baths have been taken. This is generally sufficient to produce con- siderable improvement. Another method is to rub the limb over with two sponge electrodes held a short distance apart ; this is useful in reducing the pain that is usually present. This method may also be employed, when gangrene has actually occurred, for the rehef of pain in the surrounding parts. The application of the current generally produces a somewhat pro- fuse perspiration, and is usually unaccompanied by pain; an important change, showing that the current is doing good, is that the hands fre- quently become moist, where previous to its application they were harsh and dry. This, by Raynaud himself, is considered one of the most favourable elements of prognosis. He also points out that when this treatment has been followed for some days, and improvement has distinctly commenced, certain unpleasant effects may begin to manifest themselves ; for instance, headache, which is intensified by the passage of the current, a painful sensation of constriction in the throat, and general excitement. He states that these symptoms are not serious, but that, should they occur, it is proper to diminish the strength of the current. Another very useful form of treatment, and one that may often be advantageously combined with the use of electricity, is careful friction or shampooing. In some cases this cannot be borne by the patient, however carefully it be carried out; but it will generally be found that after electricity has been employed for some little time in the manner just recommended, the parts are sufficiently free from tenderness to bear careful shampooing with the hand encased in soft flannel or other suitable gloves. After a time friction by the naked hand, anointed with some simple lubricant, may be substituted. This may also be used with advantage for those cases in which, after repeated attacks of gangrene, the limb has become contracted and anchylosis has occurred. Under these circumstances it is of course used with a different object, namely, to promote the nutrition of the muscles and to facilitate the movement of the various joints. The friction may be carried out immediately after the appUcation of the current, and may be repeated more than once during the day if the patient experiences definite relief from its use. In cases in which, during the height of the spasm, there is intense pain, considerable relief seems to be afforded by the application of slight cold, and this appears to be more effectual, at any rate in abating the pain, than the use of hot fomentations. For this purpose the ex- tremities may be covered with a piece of lint dipped in eau de Cologne, or some similar spirit, diluted with water. In cases of extremely grave local asphyxia, when gangrene was obviously impending, Ra5maud made use of the application of leeches with apparently satisfactory