DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES 269 Fig. 66, A) the result of amputation should be perfect ; it is only necessary to make an elliptical incision around the digit where it springs from the metacarpal bone, and then to remove it and the fibrous band connecting it with the bone. With a nicely planned incision and primary union, a level surface will be left showing no trace of the additional finger. {b) When i/ierc is an actual articulation between the digit and the metacarpal bone (see Fig. 66, B) mere removal of the finger is not sufficient. If the articular surface be allowed to remain, a swelling is left upon the side of the metacarpal bone, and this increases as time goes on from growth taking place beneath the articular surface, so that there may be a very unsightly projection by the time adult age is reached. Hence it is necessary to remove both the superfluous digit and the articular surface upon the metacarpal bone to which it is attached. The flaps are so planned that there shall be no excess of tissue left when they are brought together ; after the finger has been disarticu- / lated and removed, the articular surface on the metacarpal bone is exposed, and enough bone is gouged away to render the shaft of the bone smooth and uni- form in thickness. (c) When there is a super- numerary metacarpal bone articulating with the carpus (see Fig. 66, C), it must be removed aloi^g with the '^•-^^"^'^„™:.^^r °^ ^ finger ; when that has been done, enough bone must be removed from the side of the carpus to make the outline of the hand resemble that of the opposite side. This involves opening the wrist joint, and therefore the operation is one that ought not to be undertaken unless the surgeon be certain of his ability to keep the wound aseptic. The cesthetic results, however, are very satisfactory, as the imsightly projection at the side of the wrist can be obliterated and little trace of the deformity left. {d) In the case of a bifid finger, especially a bifid terminal phalanx of the thumb (see Fig. 66, D), the result of treatment is not so satisfactory. The two portions of the phalanx usually diverge from each other, so that, whichever be removed, the remaining one is out of line with the rest of the limb, and it is very difficult to bring it straight ; that, however, must be the aim of the operation. In the first place, the phalanx which deviates most from the axis of the finger (usually the smaller of the two) should