323 TALIPES EQUINUS alterations to have occurred in tlie bones and the articular surfaces ; in these cases, re-position of the foot is extremely difficult. In the first group, the tendo Achillis should be divided, and then the foot maintained in position by suitable apparatus and suitably exercised meanwhile. Some authorities emplov exercises alone so as to stretch the calf muscles gradually, and advise that tenotomy should not be done. In some cases it may be possible to overcome the trouble in this way, but on the whole it is neither a satisfactory nor a safe procedure. The constant pulling upon a tight tendon may set up spastic contraction in the calf muscles, and lead to a fibroid thickening in the muscles—both conditions being likely to increase the contraction. On the other hand, division of the tendo Achillis is followed by such satisfactory results that there is no reason to adopt a longer, more painful, and less certain method. The operation is performed as follows. The linrb is turned over upon its outer side and steadied upon a sandbag, and the surgeon introduces a tenotomy knife through the skin on one side of the tendo Achillis—for choice on the inner side. The tenotomy knife should be very sharp, with a cutting edge not more than half an inch long ; the rest of the blade should be rounded, narrow, and blunt, so as to lie in the small skin puncture made by the cutting portion without increasing it. Authorities are not agreed whether this or any tendon should be divided by introducing the knife along the deeper surface of the tendon and cutting towards the skin, or by insinuating the knife between the skin and the tendon, and cutting towards the deeper structures. The objec- tions urged against the former procedure, which is the one more often adopted, are of considerable importance. In the first place it is easy to include between the knife and the skin vessels or nerves, which must then be inevitably divided along with the tendon ; in the second place, the surgeon, in his anxiety to avoid the inclusion of these structures between the knife and the tendon, is apt to pimcture the latter, and to leave some fibres imdivided—an occurrence which would render the whole operation nugatory; in the third place, when the last fibres are divided, and the tendon gives way suddenly under the knife, the latter is apt to be thrust through the skin, and thus to convert a subcutaneous operation into an open one. As a matter of fact, many surgeons employ two knives with the view of avoiding the latter accident ; the first is sharp- pointed and makes the track, and the other is blunt-pointed and is intro- duced along the track, after withdrawal of the first, and made to divide the tendon. This, however, is an unnecessary complication, the more so as it is not easv to push the blunt instrument along the track made by the sharp one. The chief objection urged against division of the tendon from without inwards is that the knife may divide imj^ortant structures beneath as the tendon gives way ; most of these structures lie in soft mobile tissues, however, and yield before the point of the knife, so that an accident of this kind very seldom occiu-s. We prefer to divide tendons Y 2