WOUNDS 124 steps should be taken to remedy this. Before syncope is fully established it is often sufficient to depress the patient's head well between his knees, so that it is at a considerably lower level than the heart, when the face will flush and the feeling of faintness will pass off. When syncope is established, it should be an invariable rule to lower the patient's head at once ; there is nothing more dangerous than to leave him sitting up, or with his head reclining upon a pillow ; the heart may not act again in time to supply blood to the vital centres while recovery can still take place. It is well also to elevate the legs so that any blood present in the lower extremities may run back into the larger vessels. The chest also must be free, and there must be nothing tight around the neck. Sudden shocks to the external surface will set up the heart's action again, the favourite plan being to bare the chest and dash cold water over it, or slap it with wet towels. Cold water dashed over the head, or brandj^ rubbed on the lips and gums, has similarly a good effect. There must be plenty of fresh air ; no crowd should be allowed to gather around the patient, and when he is able to swallow, a little brandy-and-water, or other stimulant, will aid recovery. When syncope occurs during the course of an operation, the patient should be pulled up to the end of the table and his head allowed to hang over it, or the foot of the table may be tilted up. Artihcial respiration may be required, and slapping the chest with wet towels ; the application of the Faradic current to the region of the phrenic nerves may be of considerable help. This is best done by means of two moist electrodes about the size of a shilling, connected with an induction coil, which are pushed forwards beneath the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid just above the clavicle on each side, and a current of five to fifteen milli- amperes then made and broken from fifteen to thirty times per minute. Each closure of the current causes an inspiration, followed by an expiratory effort. There is, however, a risk of stimulating the vagi and still further embarrassing the heart. Direct stimulation to the region of the heart seems to do no good and may be actually harmful. AFTER-TREATMENT OF OPERATIONS. After the operation is completed, the patient should be put to bed as quickly and gently as possible, and wrapped up in warm blankets. In most cases he should lie on his back with only a thin bolster under the head. The room should be rapidly cleared and darkened, and the patient left perfectly quiet. If this be done, the narcosis may pass into ordinary sleep, which may last an hour or two, and the patient may have no pain at all when he wakes up ; at any rate, the worst of the pain will have passed off, and the sickness will not be so great. If the patient be at all collapsed an enema of hot saline solution (ioo° F.) should be given as soon as he is back in bed. At least a pint should be given.