250 TUMOURS after each injection without unduly exhausting the patient. The maxi- mum dose is about fifteen minims, and when this has been reached, two or three injections a week will suffice. If it be necessary to discontinue the treatment, in order to enable the patient to recover from its effects, the dose given on resuming should be slightly smaller than that last injected. The treatment should be continued until the tumour has disappeared entirely or until it is certain that no benefit is being derived from it. The operation of oophorectomy was introduced by Sir George Beatson of Glasgow for inoperable cancer of the breast; it is founded on the view that there is a definite functional connection between the ovaries and the breast, and there is no doubt that cancerous masses in the breast have disappeared in several instances after removal of the ovaries. Unfortunately, however, this disappearance seems to be only temporary, and in practically all cases, so far as we are aware, the disease has ultimately recurred. Thyroid extract has also been used in inoperable cases of cancer, either in conjunction with Beatson's operation or alone. Here again, temporary improvement has followed its use in some instances, but in the majority of cases, no eft'ect whatever is produced. Anodynes.—Apart from endeavours to arrest the spread of inoper- able cancer the sru'geon can do little but alleviate pain, which is often distressing and continuous. The most efficacious drug is morphine, and the doses must be regulated by the symptoms. Once commenced, it is often impossible to discontinue its use, and it should not be com- menced until all other remedies have proved useless. The neuralgic pains can often be relieved by hygienic measures, and the coal-tar series of drugs are often very valuable—for example, aspirin in fifteen-grain cachets, or phenacetin in doses of ten grains. A good formula for the latter is : Phenacetin . . , . ■ gr. v-x Sodii bromidi . . . . . gr. x Tr. belladonnae . . . . . THv Mucilag. tragacanth. . . . - 3] Aq. chloroformi . . . a-d 5j BElSTIGISr VARIETIES.—The Myxomata are tumours con- sisting of embryonic connective tissue in which are found the characteristic branched ramifying cells, and often also a large proportion of the round variety. They contain elastic, fibrous, and fatty tissue, and possess but few capillary blood-vessels. They are encapsuled, nodular, and soft, and yield a gummy mucous fluid on scraping. They are simple ; they do not tend to recur if properly removed ; they grow in the fat, in the subcutaneous and intermuscular tissues, in the skin, mucous membranes, nerves, sahvary glands, etc., and they are perhaps most common in the parotid region. They are slow-growing, mobile, semi-fluctuating, and, in the case of the nerves, often multiple.