lOI OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT Disinfection of the Hands.— Before using any disinfectant solu- tion, tlie liands should be thoroughly washed, preferably in a running stream of hot water, the nails should be trimmed and all tags or scales of epithelium removed with scissors or pumice stone. A large number of experiments have been made to determine how far the hands can be disinfected by purely mechanical means, and the success which has followed some of these experiments has led to an exaggerated idea as to the efficacy of mechanical disinfection. It is no doubt possible to diminish very largely the number of micro-organisms by prolonged scrubbing with a sterile brush and soap under a running stream of hot sterilised water, but it cannot be insisted upon too strongly that the essential point in disinfection of the hands is the application of a chemical disinfectant, the ' scrubbing up ' merely facilitating the action of the disinfectant by removing gross dirt. The skin of the hands of the surgeon and his assistants must therefore be disinfected in a manner exactly similar to that employed in the disinfection of the patient's skin (see p. loo). Although the use of india-rubber gloves has solved many difficulties in connection with disinfection of the hands, it does not allow any relaxation to be made in the stringency of the methods employed for sterilising the hands before the gloves are put on. The method we employ is as follows: The patient is placed in the desired position on the operating table, the preparatory disinfection dressing is removed and mackintoshes are arranged around the field of operation. During these manipulations there is a risk of depositing infective material upon the skin of the patient or the hands of the surgeon and we therefore disinfect our hands and the patient's skin (see p. loo) afresh before the wet towels (see p. 102) are arranged around the field of operation. At this stage it is common to see the operator and his assistants wash their hands with ordinary soap and water. Any washing after the final disinfection of the patient's skin should be done with an antiseptic solution, the detergent powers of which are superior to that of water. Gloves.—If gloves are to be worn, they should be put on at this stage. Gloves are best sterilised by half-filling them with hot water and boiling for half-an-hour. Before being drawn on the hands, they should be filled with a t in 4000 solution of perchloride of mercury. If the gloves be filled with the lotion, there should be no difficulty in putting them on rapidly. If they do not fit at the ends of the fingers they should be brushed upwards from the finger-tips towards the wrists with a nail brush until they are quite smooth. The surgeon should always wear gloves that fit perfectly and are somewhat on the stretch, as the diminution of tactile sensation is thereby reduced to a minimum. The assistants' gloves need be neither so thin nor so accurately fitting. Gloves with slightly roughened surfaces—the so-called ' never-slip ' variety—are^uperior to smooth ones.