453 ADMINISTRATION OF ETHER shock, and in which a profound degree of narcosis is required, as in operations about the rectum, on the genito-urinary tract, or on big joints. Operations upon the abdomen are on the border-hne, and the anaesthetic chosen must be largely determined by the predilection of the surgeon (see p. 446). With regard to the preparation ol the patient, nothing need be added to what has already been said upon the subject (see p. 443). It is one of the advantages of ether, which is sometimes overlooked, that, if need be, it can be administered to a patient sitting up, without much additional risk ; preference should, however, always be given to the recumbent position, as the increased muco-salivary secretion can then be got rid of more easily. Apparatus and Administration.—In an emergency, an inhaler for Fig. 200.—Clover's Small or Port- able Ether Apparatus. C, Ether chamber ; S, Opening through which the chamber is filled with 2 oz. of ether ; F, Padded facepiece ; B, Reservoir bag ; p. Pointer or index, which is a fixture. To increase the proportion of ether inhaled, the chamber is rotated so as to bring the figures, I, 2, etc., over the index in succession. ether can be made by twisting two or three folds of brown paper into a cone, like a grocer's sugar-bag, pushing a wide-meshed sponge well up into the apex of the cone, and tearing off the extreme tip to admit air; the ether is poured upon the sponge. Of course, better results will be obtained when a properly constructed inhaler is used. In Fig. 200, the well-known Clover's (small and portable) Inhaler is shown. Two ounces of ether are poured into the ether chamber through the opening 5. The inner tube, with the facepiece attached, is thrust up tlii'ougli the corresponding opening in the ether chamber, the index p carefully adjusted to the mark 0 on the body of the chamber, and the facepiece F placed over the mouth and nose of the patient. After a few breaths have been taken, and the patient has become accustomed to the apparatus, the bag B is fixed to the end of the inner tube which will be found flush with the upper opening in the ether chamber. A few breaths in and out of the bag are allowed, and then, during an expiration, the body of the chamber is gently rotated, either to the right or to the left,