DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES 293 splint, so that when the affected fingers are fastened to them by means of elastic bands they are in a position of slight hyper-extension (see Fig. 87) ; the thumb and any fingers unaffected are left free, so that the patient can use the hand to a certain extent. The splint should be worn night and day for at least six weeks, but it should be taken off two or three times daily so as to allow the fingers to be exercised, and massage and passive movement to the palm and finger to be practised ; at the end of six weeks it may be worn only at night. The use of the splint at night should not be given up for at least six months after the operation ; at the end of that time it can generally be abandoned entirely. When there is much stiffness of the joints and considerable rigidity of the skin, with hard horny thickenings, a course of treatment by superheated air is useful in getting the part supple ; the fingers should be repeatedly moved and the palm kneaded with glycerine or lanoline so as to soften the skin. Fig. 87.—Dupuytren's Contraction. Splint for maintaining full extension AFTER Subcutaneous Division of the Fascia. This splint is applied on the dorsal surface of the hand, and takes purchase from the UTist. Hence powerful extension of the fingers can be got. The finger prolongations (which will vary in number according to the fingers affected) can be bent backwards if necessary, as the splint is made of malleable metal. The usual result of subcutaneous division of the fascia carried out in this thorough manner is that the patient remains well for three or four years, and then the contraction recurs and a second operation is required, the results of which may be as satisfactory as those of the former one. No permanent cure, however, can be looked for by this method. The open operations of most value are removal of the whole of the contracted fascia, and division of the fascia and the skin by a V-shaped incision without removal of any portion of the fascia, so as to enable the linger to be extended. Excision of the Contracted Fascia—After the skin has been softened as much as possible in the manner described above, it is disinfected, and a vertical incision is made over the contracted band extending from the root of the finger (or further down, if necessary) to its upper limit; then transverse incisions are made at each end of the vertical incision, so that rectangular flaps of skin can be turned out on each side (see Fig. 88). Any marked horny indurations in the skin over the contracted band should be included in an elliptical incision, and removed at the same time. When the finger is much flexed, considerable difficult}^ may be experienced