CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP 397 rendering them unable to reproduce the deformity. In order to do this effectually, the pelvis is steadied by an assistant who presses upon the anterior superior iliac spine on the sound side while the surgeon attempts to abduct the affected limb to a full right angle. The adductors resist this, and their resistance is overcome by striking the tense muscles repeatedly with the ulnar border of the hand while the extremest abduc- tion possible is maintained. The stretched and contused adductors at last give way and allow full abduction of the limb to be obtained ; considerable subcutaneous effusion of blood usually follows this. Finally all the muscles around the joint are stretched by exaggerating the movements of the limb in all directions, especially in that of over-extension. Fig. 138. LoRENz's Non-operative Method for Congenital Dislocation of THE Hip. Second Slage. The Hrab is rotated outwards and abducted to its fullest degree after the head has been brought down over the acetabulum. The adductors require much kneading by the surgeon's fingers, as is shown in tlie drawing. The hip joint is also fully extended. After satisfactory stretching of the muscles has been obtained, the next step is to try to detach the capsule from the front of the joint. This is done by the ordinary manipulations for dislocation of the hip fre- quently repeated; at first complete flexion of the limb with rotation inwards, followed by abduction, rotation outwards, and extension. It is the latter manipulations which aim at getting the soft material peeled off the surface of the acetabulum. The head of the bone is got into the acetabulum by the following manipulations. An assistant steadies the pelvis, and the surgeon, flexing the hip joint to a right angle, makes traction upon the thigh in its long axis, while at the same time he presses the great trochanter inwards against the pelvis. When the limit of extension has been reached, the limb is carried outwards through nearly go°, so that the femur lies nearly flat upon the table and at right angles to the median plane of the bod}^ By this manoeuvre the head of the femur is made to pass over the dorsal