5i8 EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD usually advisable to increase the dose up to 500 millions or even more : 5 or 10 millions may be given to commence with, and successive doses given every 7-10 days. Bacillus coli.—The initial dose may be 25-50 millions, increasing to 250 millions at intervals of 7-10 days, or as the clinical signs suggest, though, as a rule, not oftener. The use of a vaccine prepared from the patient himself is usually necessary. When an unknown or unrecognised organism is isolated from a lesion (as is not very infrequently the case), it is necessary to proceed with caution as the bacterium may be a very irritating one and a very small dose only advisable. It is best to give not more than 5 miUions to com- mence with. If there is no local or general reaction within twenty-four hours a larger dose, say 25 millions, may be given. THE DIAGNOSIS OF BACTERIAL INFECTIONS BY MEANS OF THE OPSONIC INDEX. When the last edition of this work was issued it was generally thought that useful information as to the dosage of vaccines and of tubercuhn might be obtained by periodical observations of the opsonic index, i.e., the power of the serum of the patient to aid phagocytosis as compared with that of a normal person acting under the same conditions. This idea is now almost abandoned. The estimation of the opsonic index is, however, useful at times in the diagnosis of bacterial infections in which it is impossible to obtain material from which the infecting organisms can be obtained and identified. The method used for the estimation of the index is that given by Dr. Whitfield in the last edition, with one or two alterations. Method of Observation.—Normal blood from any individual is dropped from a prick in the finger into a vessel containing 0'5 per cent, sodium citrate in normal saline. This is then centrifugalised so that the corpuscles washed free of their serum lie at the bottom, the top layer of the deposit being rich in leucocytes. It is advisable to mix the deposit with normal saline and to repeat the centrifugalisation, so that all trace of serum may be removed. About a quarter of the deposit is then drawn off and thoroughly mixed up, so that there may be a fairly even distribution of the leucocytes contained in it. This mass of red blood corpuscles rich in leucocytes is habitually spoken of as ' leucocytic cream.' Secondly, a sample of blood from the patient to be examined is allowed to clot and the clear serum is drawn off. As a matter of fact this sample is generally taken some hours beforehand in order to get the serum. Thirdly, an emulsion is made of the bacillus in question. Equal quantities of these are taken in a pipette, thoroughly mixed and then incubated at blood heat for twenty minutes. The mixture is then blown out of the pipette and again mixed, and film preparations are made from it