INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 56 adrenalin is employed. For details of the method of producing local anaesthesia see Appendix. Application of Grafts.—When a sufficient number of grafts has been cut, the bandage, sponges, and protective are removed from the raw surface of the ulcer and the grafts are applied to it if the bleeding has stopped, as is generally the case. The raw surface usually has a thin layer of blood-clot upon it, and this should be wiped away. Each graft is lifted with forceps or the fingers, and applied with the cut surface downwards, and then the graft is carefully unfolded by means of two probes and stretched evenly over the surface (see Fig. 19). be done, the grafts may fail to adhere. The following is a good plan: strips of sterihsed protective (see p. 51) about an inch broad and long enough to overlaj) the wound are applied to the grafted surface from below upwards, each strip overlapping the one below, and extending well on to the skin at each end (see Fig. 20). If each strip be grasped by its two ends and pressed down firmly on the limb as it is put on, the pressure suffices to expel the air-bubbles and blood, and also to arrest further capillary oozing. Another plan, which is even more efficacious after a little practice, is to lay a fine soft flat sponge over the grafts and then press it down firmly, taking care to avoid any lateral move- ment which would dislodge the grafts. When the sponge is lifted the grafts will be found to adhere firmly. Various dressings may be used. When protective has been applied as The grafts should overlap the edges of the skin and also each other, so that no part of the raw surface is left exposed, for granu- lations always spring up on the uncovered parts, and are apt to destroy the grafts in their vicinity; moreover, a thin scar is left at these points which may break down subsequently. The graft is always thinner at its edge than at its centre, and it is these thin edges which overlap each other or the edge of the skin ; there is no real sloughing of these over- lapping edges. Fig. 19.—Thiersch's Method or Skin-graft- ing. The graft applied. The skin-grafts over- lap the margins of the ulcer and one another. Dressing the Grafts. — Air- bubbles and blood-clot collect beneath the grafts during their application, and must be got rid of by pressure so apphed as not to detach the grafts ; unless this