4o8 DEFORMITIES faulty position, the primary curve is usually in the upper dorsal region, whilst the compensatory curve is below it When the primary curve is very marked there may be three or even more curves in the spine ; the primary curve is then generally very acute, and at either end of it there is a compensatory curve. This is usually the case in severe dorsal curva- ture, when there is a compensatory curve in the cervical and another in the lumbar region. In some cases certain spinous processes may project markedly backwards ; the case then requires careful examination in order to distinguish it from tuberculous disease. A marked objective symptom is asymmetry of the thorax. The shoulder upon the side of the convexity of the curve is higher than its fellow ; the intercostal spaces are considerably wider on that side, whilst they are narrowed upon the side of the concavity. The spinous processes deviate from the middle line. The distance between the lower ribs and the crest of the ilium on one side is much increased, whilst there is a deep fold in the corresponding situation on the opposite side. The total body height is diminished. When there is much rotation of the bodies of the vertebrae, the thorax undergoes extensive deformity ; the ribs on the side of the convexity of the curve are carried backwards, whilst they travel in a forward direction on the opposite side. The shape of the two sides of the thorax is therefore greatly altered. On the side of the convexity the vertical measurement of the thoracic cavity is increased, owing to the separation of the ribs, but the transverse one is lessened. On the side of the con- cavity the reverse is the case, but probably the cubic capacity on the two sides is but slightly altered. The angles of the ribs on the side of the convexity become more acute, whilst those on the opposite side either remain unaltered or become more obtuse. The result is a pro- minent ridge upon the side of the convexity formed by the angles of the ribs with the erector muscles over them. The clavicle on that side may have its curves increased, and cases are recorded in which the sternal end has become dislocated. The scapula on the side of the convexity is carried backwards to a plane posterior to its fellow, and is raised and some- times tilted. The arm on the opposite side hangs away from the thorax. Subjective Symptoms.—The subjective symptoms are usually shght, but may become exaggerated in neurotic subjects or in those in whom the deformity is extreme. There is aching pain, and a feeling of weariness in the back and loins, sometimes extending down to the thighs. When the deformity has lasted long and extensive bony changes have occurred, there may be considerable pain, partly from the pull upon the stretched ligaments and partly from direct pressure upon the nerves or the viscera. The lung may be compressed upon the side of the convexity, and patients with long-standing dorsal curvature are apt to suffer from severe bronchitis; the heart may also be displaced, and the liver and spleen unduly pressed upon.