356 DEFORMITIES all the resisting structures subcutaneously, and bringing the foot forcibly into position by wrenches, after which an apparatus, designed to keep up constant pressure on the bones, is applied, so as to mould them to their natural shape ; or in performing an open operation by which all the soft structures causing the faulty position of the foot are divided, and subsequently applying pressure in such a direction as to produce the required alteration in the shape of the bones. This is com- monly known as ' Phelps' operation.' The forcible restoration of the foot with wrenches after all the resisting soft structures have been divided subcutaneously is done in the manner already described (see p. 352). Any tight tendons, the astragalo-scaphoid capsule, the plantar fascia and the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint, are divided with a tenotome and this is followed by wrenching of the foot, so as to tear any ligamentous structures that may have escaped division. The later treatment consists in dividing the tendo Achillis and employing apparatus to keep up constant pressure on the foot in the right direction, and thus gradually to alter the axes of the deformed bones. Nothing further need be said here concerning this method which is only an extension of that already described for the second group of cases. In carrying it out, subcutaneous division of the tight structures must often be repeated after an interval of a few weeks, and the wrenching also requires more than one repetition. If success be not attained after a fair trial of this method for six months or a year, the surgeon must employ Phelps's operation or some modification of it. Phelps's operation is performed as follows. The foot is placed on its outer side upon a firm sandbag, and an incision is commenced about half an inch in front of the tip of the internal malleolus, and extended downwards and slightly forwards, to the sole. This incision should not go farther down than the middle point of the sole, as otherwise trouble may ensue afterwards from pressure upon the scar in walking; it should commence above, in close proximity to the tendon of the tibialis anticus, and should divide all the structures down to the bone, parallel to, and slightly in front of, the marked transverse crease in the foot which corresponds roughly to the mid-tarsal articulation. The tendons of the tibialis anticus and posticus muscles, the plantar fascia, the abductor hallucis, the flexor brevis and part of the flexor longus digitorum, together with the internal plantar vessels and nerve, are divided in this incision. A portion of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint, and the ligaments about the mid-tarsal joint, are also cut, and thus the head of the astragalus is exposed. The foot is next forcibly wrenched into a position of abduction, and after this a deep triangular gap is left in the position of the incision, which may either be allowed to heal by granulation, which is a slow process, or may be covered by skin-grafts (see p. 52). The foot is secured to a sphnt in the over-corrected position. Should