402 DEFORMITIES We have now had the opportunity of watching many cases treated both by the operative and non-operative methods for many years after the dislocation has been reduced, in some instances for twelve years or more. On the whole we must confess that the later results have disappointed us. The tendency to recurrence of the displacement never seems to be overcome entirely, and we have had a case of spontaneous recurrence of the displacement ten years after apparently perfect re-position by the open method. During all this time the child showed no sign of limping, and lived her usual life, and a series of radiograms taken annually showed the head of the bone apparently in perfect position in a normally placed and developed acetabulum. It may be that the loss of the ligamentum teres has something to do with this. In no case have we had any anchy- losis, nor indeed any troublesome stiffness of the joint after the casings are removed, and this we attribute partly to avoidance of sepsis, but chiefly to abstinence from interference with the shape of the articular surfaces. In the older open operation of Hoffa the joint surfaces were remodelled, and anchylosis was a frequent result. Summary of Treatment.—All cases seen in infancy should be treated by manipulations (see p. 395) until the child is two or three years old, and then Lorenz's bloodless method (see p. 395) should be tried. Should this fail after a second attempt, or should the child be seven or eight years of age when treatment is begun, the open operation should be resorted to. No case under the age of eight years should be abandoned as incurable until open operation has been tried, and no case should be called a cure unless a stereoscopic radiogram shows that the head of the bone lies in the acetabulum. Provided that the surgeon be sure of his asepsis there is no risk attaching to the operation, which is not unduly prolonged nor accompanied by severe bleeding. The really difficult point is to keep the limb in its proper position during the suturing of the wound, etc. OTHER CONGENITAL DISLOCATIONS. Congenital dislocation is sometimes seen in the shoulder joint, the head of the humerus being usually displaced backwards on to the scapula ; occasionally a downward or forward displacement may be present. In the elbow joint, the head of the radius is not very uncommonly displaced forwards on to the lower end of the humerus. If the move- ments of the fore-arm be interfered with, the head of the bone may be excised, but as a rule no treatment is necessary. Sometimes both ulna and radius are displaced backwards. Displacements of the knee-joint or of the patella in a lateral direction, also occur as a congenital deformity. They do not need any special description.