158 WOUNDS to bring the edges into apposition are generally very simple. If the skin around the wound be undercut widely enough to allow the elasticity of the skin sufficient play, a very extensive defect may be repaired thus. In removal of the breast, for example, an oval gap measuring six inches or more in its transverse diameter may be closed by undermining the surrounding skin. The best way is to proceed as follows. In small wounds, the knife is carried between the superficial fat and the deep fascia ; in large ones, it should be swept between the deep fascia and the muscle. By this means the skin and fascia are raised from the deeper parts for such a distance around the wound as the surgeon judges will be necessary to allow the edges to come together. The undermining should be most extensive opposite the shorter diameter of the oval, and should be carried on until the edges of the wound can be brought easily into contact by puUing upon them. In raising these flaps care must be taken to direct the edge of the knife towards the deeper parts and not towards the skin ; failure to observe this precaution is apt to result in scoring of the flap, and, as the blood-vessels which supply the skin ramify in the sub- cutaneous fat, the blood-supply to the edges of the wound might be cut off and sloughing might ensue. The undermining must be free enough to allow the edges of the wound to come together without such tension as to endanger the circula- tion in the flaps. Flaps that have been dragged together after insuffi- ciently free undercutting will become white on putting in the stitches, and the circulation in them will not be restored; in such a case, there- fore, it will be necessary to carry the undermining further, so as to allow of the flaps being brought together without being permanently blanched. If at first there be a little whiteness in the immediate vicinity of the stitch, it will disappear in a few minutes when the tension is not too great. Deep stitches and, if necessary, button stitches should be used to relax the edges in order that there may be no tension upon the actual line of union (see p. 139). Angular, quadrilateral, or irregular-shaped wounds require one of the plastic operations proper for their closure. A small quadrilateral defect is easily closed by making straight incisions which extend two corresponding sides of the parallelogram into the healthy skin on one side ; for example, in Fig. 53 the side AB is extended to b and CD to d. The flap BDdb, which ought to be about double the length of the side AB, is then dissected up along with the subcutaneous tissue ; the elasticity of the skin then allows the flap to be stretched with comparatively slight tension, so that the point B may be stitched to the point A, and the point D to the point C. When the quadrilateral defect is large, it can be closed by making similar incisions on the opposite side also ; for example, in Fig. 53, by extending the side AB both to b and to a, and CD to both d and c. The