FLAT FOOT 307 not necessary to employ absolute rest in bed with fixation in plaster of Paris. Any adhesions in the tarsal joints that may exist should be broken down under anaesthesia by grasping the foot with the two hands and moving the front half upon the back freely and in all directions. Then the exercises above described should be carried out, friction, massage, and douching should be employed, and gentle exercise encouraged while the patient is wearing a Whitman's spring. In these cases treat- ment must be continued for a long time ; indeed, many patients must use a spring for the rest of their lives both in their walking boots and their house-shoes. Any co-existing causes of fiat foot must be remedied if possible. Should the patient be weak or anaemic, iron may be adminis- tered, and any deformity, such as genu valgum, which may be the cause of the affection, must receive appropriate treatment ; it is futile to treat a case of flat foot depending upon genu valgum without removing the primary cause. When there is niarlsed oblitera- tion of the arcli accompanied by considerable eversion of the foot, and when there is also difficulty in restoring the arch by manipulation, it maybe necessary to have recourse to some form of elastic traction in order to support the instep. The same method may also be called for when Whitman's spring gives rise to much pain. A good apparatus for this purpose is Golding Bird's modification of Barwell's spring, which is essentially an artificial tibialis anticus muscle (see Fig. 97). It consists of a sling of webbing encircling the ankle and passing down across the outer border of the foot and beneath the arch of the instep, terminating on the inner side just above the head of the astragalus in a hook to which is fastened one end of a stout india-rubber door-spring; the other end of this is attached to an outside leg-iron which is hinged into the heel of the boot below, and fastened to a band encircling the leg just opposite the tubercle of the tibia. The apparatus is applied as follows. The sling is arranged around the ankle and beneath the instep outside the stocking, and the boot is put on and the leg-iron adjusted to the heel whilst the free end is pulled upon firmly. The elastic band is then fastened in position, and the upper end of the leg-iron is adjusted. A slit must be made in the upper leather of the boot through which the free end of the sHng is passed before the spring is attached to it. This apparatus supports the arch of the foot well, and without pain. At the same time it is cumbrous and expensive, and we do not advise its use when the metal spring will answer its purpose. It is, however, a good method X 2 Fig. 97.—Golding Bird's Ap- paratus FOR Flat Foot. The sling applied.