514 EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD PREPARATION OF VACCINES. As a general rule the use of a vaccine prepared from cultures derived from the pus or other morbid material of the patient to be treated will be found to give better results than a stock vaccine; this is especially the case with organisms such as streptococci, gonococci and B. coli, which differ widely amongst themselves. In other cases, such as infections with staphylococci and pneumococci, the need is not so great, and treatment may well be commenced with a stock vaccine made from several strains of the organism. But if this fails the vaccine treatment should not be condemned until an autochthonous vaccine has been used. The method by which these vaccines are prepared is not difficult, though it is somewhat tedious and requires the closest attention to details, more especially in regard to those necessary to ensure sterility of the final product. The following is the process usually employed. Preparation of the Culture.—This is made from the pus, blood, etc., on ordinary bacteriological lines, and, in general, agar is used as the culture medium : additions such as that of sterile blood in the case of the gonococcusbeingmade, when necessary, to adapt it to the requirements of the particular organism. It is desirable, if possible, to use the primary culture, since many bacteria lose their virulence rapidly when cultivated on artificial media, and virulence of the culture is an essential factor for a good vaccine. If the primary culture {i.e. that inoculated with the material from the patient) is not pure, a second one is inoculated from colonies of the organism in question : it is advisable not to make this second culture from a single colony, since organisms vary greatly amongst themselves, even in a pure culture, and it might happen that the colony selected was one of a relatively non-virulent form. When time is an object the primary culture may be used, even if not quite pure, pro- vided that the organisms are non-sporulating (and so easy to kill) and non- pathogenic or of feeble pathogenicity. A few colonies of staphylococci, the most common contamination, do not interfere with the use of the vaccine at all, except in regard to the dosage. The culture should be as young as possible. In the case of rapidly growing organisms such as staphylococci and B. coli, cultures 18-24 hours old should be used. In dealing with organisms such as gonococci, which grow more slowly, older cultures must necessarily be used, but in no case should incubation be continued when a good growth has developed. Preparation of the Emulsion.—One to ten cubic centimetres of sterile normal saline solution (the exact amount is not of importance) is added to the agar culture by means of a sterile pipette, and the growth scraped off with a sterile platinum loop. The emulsion, thus formed, is shaken gently so as to break up the colonies as far as possible, and allowed to stand for a few minutes so that any large masses may settle. The saline