63 ULCERATION Treatment on the principles recommended for a simple ulcer should be carried out subsequently. When these ulcers are quite small, however, complete excision with immediate skin-grafting is the best treatment. Phagedenic Ulcer.—This ulcer requires energetic treatment in order to destroy the infected tissues. In order to do this, the slough should be scraped away with a sharp spoon or clipped off with scissors, and then the actual cautery (see p. 20), potassa fusa (see p. 21), or nitric acid should be applied to the surface of the sore; of these the actual cautery is the best. It should be heated to white heat, and the parts thoroughly destroyed by it ; Paquelin's cautery will also answer the purpose. It is possible to gauge the amount of destruction done by means of the cautery, whereas caustic potash generally destroys more of the tissue than is really necessary, and the action of nitric acid is interfered with by the coagulation of the albumen that it causes, so that, as a rule, it does not extend sufficiently deeply. After the application of the cautery, undiluted car- bolic acid should be sponged over the surface, and a dressing of strong carbolic oil (i to 5) should be applied (see p. 50). When nitric acid is used, its action should be neutralised, after the lapse of a few minutes, by pouring a strong solution of ordinary washing-soda on the wound; this should be done until effervescence, from the liberation of carbonic acid gas, ceases. In these ulcers the first object is not to obtain healing, but to eradicate a dangerous bacterial poison which spreads with great rapidity. Varicose Ulcer.—This ulcer must be treated by rest in the elevated position, disinfection of the sore, the application of protective and boric lint dressing, or boric ointment, and subsequent skin-grafting. But the patient should not be allowed to go about again till the varicose veins themselves have been treated. As long as the limb is elevated, the presence of varicose veins does not delay the healing, but directly the patient begins to walk about they favour the subsequent breaking down of the ulcer in a very marked degree. As, however, under proper conditions, the varicose veins do not interfere with the healing of the wound, it is well to defer the operation until the ulcer has closed, so as to avoid any risk of sepsis in connection with the operation on the veins. The treatment of varicose veins is referred to in detail in Vol. II. Callous Ulcer.—Here the obstacle to healing is the callous condition of the surrounding parts, and the surgeon's first efforts must be directed to getting rid of this. If the hmb be put at rest, the leg elevated, and the sore rendered aseptic, this callous condition will subside com- paratively quickly, and in the course of two or three weeks the sore will present a healthy appearance and the healing process will begin. When it is desirable to expedite matters, or when the thickening of the tissues does not disappear as quickly as usual, some of the other plans, which have been referred to on p. 18, may be employed ; of these the best is the application of a bhster, provided that the kidneys be healthy. After