342 DEFORMITIES in a joint by removing the articular cartilage. It is useful in those flail-like conditions of the ankle-joint when all the muscles in connection with it are paralysed, as the patient is thereby enabled to bear his weight firmly upon the foot, whereas otherwise no apparatus would fix the joint without causing serious pressure sores. It is done at the knee joint in some cases in which the paralysis is so wide-spread that the joint is flail-Hke ; it then gives the patient a firm support in place of a limb that is too feeble to bear apparatus. It is also useful in the case of the astragalo-scaphoid joint in bad cases of valgus. The steps of the operation need not be described in detail here. The particular joint is opened freely by a suitable incision and all the articular cartilage is removed by a gouge or a sharp cutting rugine. The wound is then closed and the limb is put up in the required position and kept there for six weeks or more, when firm union should have occurred between the articular surfaces. It is important to remove the cartilage freely. TALIPES VALGUS. As a congenital affection, this condition is comparatively rare ; when it does occur it is most frequently associated with absence of the fibula. Even as an acquired affection the deformity is not very common ; it then most frequently results from infantile paralysis, and the deformity is produced by the unbalanced action of the peronei muscles, the tibials and the extensors of the foot being paralysed. It may also occur in connection with rickety deformities of the leg, or faulty union of fractures of the tibia. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—The principal alterations in the foot are stretching of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint with a corresponding contraction of the external lateral ligament, and to a lesser degree, stretching of some of the other ligaments on the inner side of the foot. In the early stage it is easy to bring the foot into its normal position by manipulations alone, but in the later stages the ligaments and muscles, especially the peronei, become contracted, and will require division before the foot can be restored to position. In severe or long-standing cases, alteration in the shape of the bones also occurs, and forms a further obstacle to the reduction of the deformity. TREATMENT.—In the early cases, in which the position of the foot can be rectified by the hand alone, the treatment should aim at preventing the occurrence of the deformity, and increasing the strength of the weakened muscles, so as to enable them to raise the inner border of the foot. This should be done by manipulations carried out by the nurse, who gradually inverts the foot, and brings it inwards at the mid- tarsal joint ; massage and douching of the muscles, particularly the tibials and extensoi's of the toes, and the galvanic current are also useful.