io6 WOUNDS It does not necessarily follow that a clot will form in the interior of a vein if the latter be only partially divided. Means of controlling Haemorrhage.—When a large artery has been divided or when a small one has only been partially cut across, the bleeding will not stop spontaneously, and some artificial means must be adopted to arrest it. Capillary bleeding, on the other hand, is only troublesome in cases of haemophilia, where coagulation of the blood does not take place properly, and very persistent oozing may occur. Bleeding from a partially divided vein usually ceases spon- taneously, except when severe coughing or crying gives rise to an obstruction to the flow of blood through the veins, and leads to expulsion of blood through the divided wall. Tourniquets.—It is necessary to consider not only the an^est, but also the prevention of haemorrhage. Under certain circumstances it is advisable to arrest the circulation in the part upon which an operation is being performed. Formerly this was done by means of a tourniquet, a band tied tightly round the limb, furnished with a screw and a pad which was placed over the artery, and screwed up until the circulation through the vessel was arrested. Esmarch's Bandage.—The chief disadvantage of the old tourniquet is that, while it arrests the flow of blood through the main vessel, it does not control the collateral circulation. At the present time a rubber band, with which the name of Esmarch is associated, is wound firmly round the upper part of the hmb and in this way the entire circulation through the limb is effectually controlled. In amputations in weakly patients it is also of importance to preserve the blood which is already present in the limb. Esmarch's plan is to bandage the limb spirally from the extremity upwards with a broad elastic bandage applied very firmly, so as to expel all the blood from the vessels ; when the upper part of the limb is reached, a rubber tube or cord is applied transversely around it, and, when this has been fastened, the spiral elastic bandage is taken off. This method is both unnecessary and frequently undesirable. It is very Fig. 27.—Esmarch's Rubber Tourniquet.—The appliance which consists of a lentjth of rubber tubing is tightly wound two or three times round the limb and secured by the anchor catch in the method shown.