COXA VARA 391 lesser trochanter with a fine-bladed saw. The great trochanter was then pushed as far forwards as it would go, while the leg and the lower part of the femur were rotated inwards until the limb was in a position of com- plete internal rotation. The two portions of the bone were then sur- rounded by a collar of sheet aluminium fastened on by tacks and the wound was closed without a drainage tube. The limb was put in a trough of Gooch's splinting which was then raised on an inclined plane and rotated inwards so as to maintain the leg in a position of internal rotation. The recently introduced plates and screws which are de- scribed in connection with the mechanical fixation of fractures (see Vol. II.) would probably be preferred for the purposes of fi.xa- tion nowadays (see Fig. 136). The after-treatment is the same as for those cases. The rationale of this proceed- ing is that the hip joint is left undisturbed, whilst the rotation of the foot, as far as walking is concerned, is completely cor- rected, for although the tro- chanter does not rotate as far forwards as it should, the foot is in its normal position when the femur is rotated inwards as far as it can go. On the other hand, when the trochanter is rotated outwards to its extreme limit, the foot is usually in the posi- tion of normal external rotation. In young adults the best treatment is by Thomas's hip-splint applied as recommended for hip disease (see Vol. III.). The splint re- quires to be kept on until all tenderness and pain have disappeared. The patient's general condition should receive careful attention, and hygienic measures must be insisted on as for tuberculosis Oleum phosphoratum in minim doses, combined with emulsion of cod liver oil, is valuable. When the bones have consolidated, an operation must be undertaken if the degree of deformity be such that the patient is unable to walk unaided. In a case which has resisted palliative treatment and in which ossihcation is complete a sub-trochanteric osteotomy {vide supra) will suffice. This is preferable to excision of a wedge from the neck of the femur as proposed by Kraske, which is extremely difficult to perform ; it is still more difficult to fix the fragments afterwards, and get a good movable joint. Fig. 136. SUB-TROCHANTKRIC OsTEOTOMY FOR Co.XA Vara. In A, the bones .ire united by a bone- pi.ite ; in B, by an aluminium collar.