DEFORMITIES 282 narrow flannel roll between the two toes being removed by pulling upon a string fastened to one end ; the flannel uncoils and is withdrawn. A digitated sock must be worn if a toe-post is used. The plan answers well for the slighter cases, but when the deflection is great and the trouble is of long standing, considerable friction is caused by the pressure of the great toe against the post, and pain and sometimes ulceration results, so that the patient is unable to continue it. Under these circumstances a special form of splint must be employed. A great variety of these have been introduced ; a fairly satisfactory one is here figured (see Fig. 83) ; it is appHcable to cases of medium severity in which there is no marked rigidity. It consists of a metal spring running along the inner border of the foot and curving outwards beneath the ball of the great toe. The spring runs nearly to the tip of the great toe, and to its extremity is attached a band which passes around the point of the toe, the other ex- tremity of the apparatus being fastened to the ankle by an elastic band. Opposite the arch of the instep the spring articulates, by means of a movable joint, with a small vertical plate, which takes purchase from a Fig. 81.—Diagram to illus- trate THE EMPLOYMENT OF A * Toe-post.' The * toe-post' is seen in the cleft between the great toe and the second. It is made of stout leather or wood, and is fixed to the sole of the boot, which should be of the shape shown in the figure. The great toe is thus confined in a com- partment from which it cannot escape, and no lateral deflection is permitted. Fig. 82.—-A. Method of improvising a Toe-Post. A piece of paper is cut to the shape shown in A corresponding to the outline of the anterior part of the foot. This is divided into two along the line ab. These pieces are laid on a second piece of paper so that the distance between them is equal to twice the depth of the foot, measured between the great and second toe. The two lines cd and ef are now drawn, and a paper pattern made as shown in B. This is cut out in block tin which is folded along lines corresponding to the dotted lines in B, so as to produce the appearance shown in C. This is put into the boot and forms a toe-post.