OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT 93 strength. If the air in the top of a jar containing the trioxymethylene can be inlialed without discomfort, it can be assumed safely that its sterilising power is not very great. The lid of the jar should fit tightly ; for catheters the best form is an upright cylinder with a tightly fitting ground-glass stopper and a perforated rack for the catheters to hang in. Catgut.—The best material for and sterilisation of ligatures has aroused considerable controversy. We have been in the habit of using catgut, a substance which has received much undeserved condemnation, especially in this country ; we have used it, however, for many years with com- plete satisfaction and with no bad results. Catgut is prepared from sheep's intestines and, as originally obtained, is doubtless teeming with bacteria. The first stage in its preparation is treatment with sulphurous and chromic acids ' ; this produces a tough greenish or greenish-yellow thread which will last in the body for a considerable time, usually about a month cr six weeks. This sulpho-chromic catgut is sterilised with certainty by immersing it in a i in 20 solution of carbolic acid for at least a fortnight, the solution being changed repeatedly and kept tightly stoppered. If more rapid preparation be required, the catgut is wound loosely round a bobbin and immersed for about twelve hours in undiluted carbolic acid ; this causes the thread to become transparent much as does a microscopic specimen cleared by xylol or clove oil. It is then immersed in a i in 20 carbolic solution when it once more becomes opaque, regains much of its strength, and forms an efficient material for ligatures and sutures. Cat- gut prepared in this way can be kept unimpaired in a i in 20 carbolic ' See Lister's method of chromicising catgut: Lancet, February 5, 1881. The directions are as follows :— The preparing liquid must be twenty times the weight of the catgut, so for 40 gr. of catgut Soo gr. of preparing liquid are required. It is made by mixing two liquids, viz., the chromium sulphate liquid and the sublimate liquid. The sublimate liquid is : Corrosive sublimate . . . gr. 2 Distilled water . . . . gr. 320 The sublimate may be dissolved by heat, but the solution must be used cold. The chromium sulphate liquid is prepared thus: Chromic acid . . . . gr. 4 Distilled water . . . • gr. 240 Add to this as much sulphurous acid (P.B. solution) as gives a green colour. If more is added, the colour becomes blue, which shows that rather too much sulphurous acid has been used. It is well to reserve a few drops of the chromic acid solution to be added after the blue colour has just appeared and restore it to green. Then enough distilled water is added to bring the green liquid up to 480 gr. Then add the sublimate liquid. The catgut is kept twent5'-four hours in the preparing liquid and is then dried on the stretch. N.B. It is essential that the chromic acid and the sulphurous acid solutions be mixed before the corrosive sublimate solution is added.