47 ULCERATION well to apply a splint which reaches above the knee, and fixes the foot at right angles to the leg. Promoting- the Venous Return.—The danger of venous obstruc- tion has already been insisted upon ; it may lead to the transformation of a simple or varicose ulcer into a callous one, and the ulcer wiD refuse to heal as long as no provision is made for the proper return of blood from the affected area. This indication may be met in various ways, but the most efficient is to place the part on a higher level than the heart. Patients who are suffering from ulcers of the leg should be put to bed with the limb elevated on a pillow, and the knee and ankle-joints fixed, and should not be allowed to get up for any purpose whatever until cicatrisation is complete. Any relaxation of this rule will not only delay the healing of the ulcer, but may lead to an extension of the ulceration. When the part is elevated, the venous return is greatly favoured, and the exuda- tion which has been poured out is rapidly absorbed even without any other treatment. As a result, the pressure upon the arterioles going to the surface of the ulcer is removed, and a plentiful flow of arterial blood is again supplied to it. Thus rest and the elevated position not only favour the return of blood from the part, but also the flow of blood to it. Promoting Absorption of the Exudation.—Measures should also be taken to get rid of the exudation, which presses on and interferes with the circulation in the part. The elevated position and rest in bed are no doubt sufficient to do this of themselves ; but if time be an object, various measures may be taken to accelerate the absorption of the exuda- tion. Of these, one of the best is massage. When massage is employed with a view of getting rid of the thickening around an ulcer, it should be applied first to the parts above the ulcer ; as the skin gets softer in that region, the area subjected to the massage may be increased down- wards. If the massage were applied first to the part below the ulcer, the absorption would not be satisfactory, owing to the presence of the exudation above. Another way in which the exudation may be got rid of is by pressure, and this is especially useful when patients will not lie up. Pressure may be applied in two ways ; either by strapping, or by elastic bandages. The older plan was to use strapping, but this is not so good as elastic pressure. If strapping be used, strips of adhesive plaster are applied fairly tightly around the ulcer and the parts in its vicinity. These strips should be rather more than an inch broad and rather longer than the cir- cumference of the limb. They are apphed from below upwards, the centre of each strip being applied at a point opposite the centre of the ulcer, so that as the two ends are brought together over the limb they pull the edges of the ulcer together (see Fig. 15). If the strips were applied with their centres over the ulcer, the reverse would be the case ; when they were pulled tight the edges of the ulcer would be separated. The strips should overlap each other for about two-thirds of their breadth, so that