TUMOURS COMPOSED OF MORE COMPLEX TISSUES 255 example, as the enlargements at the divided ends or tumours, such as myxomata, fibromata, or sarcomata, occurring in the neighbourhood of and involving nerves. In connection with neuromata may be men- tioned the gliomata, which occur in the central nervous system, and in the retina, and are composed of neiu-oglia. They are often vascular, and as a rule they are not malignant except locally ; the gliomata which occur in connection with the retina are more malignant, however, and possibly ought to be included among the sarcomata. The treatment of neuromata belongs to that of the affections of nerves. A glioma should be removed whenever possible ; the subject is dealt with in connection with tumours of the brain. Angiomata ornaevi are composed of vascular tissue, and the essential element in them is the formation of blood-vessels. The latter are partly of new formation and are partly pre-existing vessels much dilated and thickened. These tumours are divided into two groups—the simple or capillary, and the cavernous or venous. In the capillary angioma the vessels are distinct and have well- defined walls, and the tumour consists of a mass of dilated tortuous capillaries, derived not only from dilatation of old capillaries, but also from the formation of new ones. There is no definite capsule, and therefore the tumours are not clearly marked off from the surrounding tissues, their outline being irregular and somewhat lobulated. They occur usually in the skin, and may be either upon its free surface or in its substance, and they may spread from the skin to the subcutaneous tissue. The tumour generally presents a bright red colour, but it may be somewhat bluish where the circulation is slow. The cavernous angioma, or venous naevus, occurs in the skin, sub- cutaneous tissue, muscles, etc., and is made up of large spaces communi- cating with the blood-vessels and separated from each other by septa of unequal thickness containing fibrous tissue, remains of the original tissue, elastic fibres, striped and unstriped muscle, fat cells, vasa vasorum, lymphatics, and nerves, the blood spaces themselves being lined with endothelium. The great majority of these venous nxvi are congenital (in fact both kinds of naevi generally are), and they may disappear as the child grows older, or they may increase in size ; the latter is more frequently the case with the subcutaneous or cavernous form. Naevi sometimes undergo cystic degeneration, the communication between the blood spaces and the vessels being obliterated, and the former then undergoing dilatation, so that cysts of variable size are formed. Treatment.—The treatment of naevi may be divided into (i) excision, and (2) the use of methods which aim at setting up inflammation in the vessels so as to procure first thrombosis and ultimately atrophy of the vascular growth. Excision.—Excision is certainly the best possible method of treat- ment, and should be adopted in all cases where it is possible to carry