INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 72 Gangrene due to Acute Inflammation.—When an acute inflam- mation occurs in dense tissues, and especially when it ends in suppuration, not only may the toxins kill the tissues, but the thrombosis and the pres- sure of the exudation on the blood-vessels may also lead to their death from insufficient blood-supply. The best examples of this are acute necrosis following acute suppurative periostitis and osteomyehtis, and the sloughs which occur in the skin in boils and carbuncles. These cases will be dealt with under their respective headings; we need only say here that early free incisions are called for. Gangrene due to the Action of Heat, Cold, or Caustics.— The treatment of this form of gangrene is practically that of burns and scalds and frostbite (see Chap. VIII.). ! INDIRECT GANGRENE. In the indirect form of gangrene the causal agent does not act directly upon the part which dies, and this form of the affection may be divided into the four following groups, viz.: (i) gangrene due to gradual diminu- tion in the calibre of the blood-vessels; (2) gangrene due to the sudden obstruction of the blood-vessels; (3) gangrene due to imperfect innerva- tion ; and (4) gangrene due to general causes, such as diabetes, acute fevers, the use of ergot, etc. Gangrene due to the Gradual Diminution in the Calibre of the Blood-vessels.—Dyy or senile gangrene is the typical example of this form. The changes leading to senile gangrene affect the arteries, and are in part gradual diminution in the calibre of the blood-vessels, and in part rigidity of their walls, so that they do not dilate and contract in con- formity with the needs of the tissues. Anything which leads to endarteritis will favour the production of this form ; for example, alcoholism is a very potent cause of endarteritis, as are also chronic nephritis, diabetes, and syphilis, and these are among the chief causes of senile gangrene. Another common cause is atheroma, which is a chronic inflammation of the deeper part of the internal coat of the artery, leading to irregular thickening and rigidity, diminution in calibre, and even in some cases calcification of the middle coat. In atheroma and endarteritis a further cause of gangrene is the readiness with which thrombosis occurs in the affected vessels, and leads to complete blocking of their lumen. It is evident that in most cases certain symptoms, due to imperfect blood-supply, will precede the occurrence of the gangrene. Thus, one of the chief complaints of the patient, even long before the gangrene occurs, is great coldness and perverted sensation in the feet. He suffers much from tingling, he does not feel the ground properly when he walks, he feels, in fact, as if there were something soft between his feet and the ground. After these symptoms have lasted some time, something occurs which sets up a little inflammation about the foot; possibly a blister forms as the result of tight boots, or a corn suppurates, or the