5o8 EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD The leucocytes are diminished in numbers, and there is a relative excess of lymphocytes (40 per cent, or more). Chlorosis is indicated by a low colour index (o'5 or often less), the leucocytes remaining normal. Secondary ancemia [i.e. that due to a definite recognisable cause) is indicated by a moderately reduced colour index (o'8 or o-g, sometimes lower), with a leucocytosis, slight or marked, according to the disease producing it, and caused mainly by an increase of the pol3muclears. Typhoid Fever.—^In the earlier stages there is usually no anaemia, and there may even be an increase, due to a concentration of the blood. There is no leucocytosis, the numbers being often below normal, and there is a relative excess of lymphocytes. In the later stages there may be a moderate amount of anaemia. Perforation of a Viscus.—Here there is a sudden and rapid increase in the number of leucocytes, the figures reached being dependent on the amount of fluid which escapes, its nature, and the resisting powers of the patient. The increase is mainly due to the polynuclear cells. In the case of a perforated typhoid ulcer the rise is usually well marked, since it contrasts with the low counts previously met with. A severe haemorrhage may give a similar rise, and must be excluded. Trichinosis, Bilharzia Disease, Hydatids, etc.—^The characteristic feature of these diseases is an increase in the eosinophiles. This is most marked in trichinosis, where it may reach 80 per cent.. It is least marked in hydatid disease, and may, indeed, be absent. In swellings of the liver in which hydatid is suspected a considerable amount of weight attaches to even a slight increase, since the most important diseases with which it may be confounded are usually associated with diminished eosinophiles. In this connection anything over 4 per cent, may be looked upon with suspicion. Malaria.—^The diagnostic feature is, of course, the discovery of the specific parasite. This is not always possible, and, when it cannot be done, some help may be obtained from the fact that there is no leuco- cytosis, but a relative lymphocytosis, large lymphocytes being specially numerous. The anaemia is usually of very rapid onset, a marked re- duction occurring in a few days. THE WASSERMANN REACTION. One of the most important services that pathology has been able to render to clinical surgery for some years is the elaboration of a method for the diagnosis of syphilis by means of a blood-test, the great advantage of which is that it can always be carried out in cases in which there is no available material in which the specific spirochaete can be sought. It is somewhat difficult to perform, and hence is not available as a consulting- room test, but the collection of the necessary sample of blood is easy