113 OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT cooled, and therefore it is necessary to risk the introduction of organisms by mixing the water from the kitchen boiler with sufficient ice or cold water to reduce the temperature to the required degree. It is a common practice to mix ordinary table salt with sterilised water in the proper proportions and to look upon this as sterilised saline solution. The salt is more likely to contain organisms than is tap water and must always be sterilised by boiling before use. Even in cases of emergency it is possible to boil the required amount of salt in a small quantity of water and then dilute it as above. In introducing the saline solution a vein is exposed (preferably the median basiUc), a double ligature of cagut is passed around it, the loop divided in the centre, and the two threads separated from one another. An oblique cut is then made through about half the calibre of the vessel between the two tlu'cads, and the nozzle of a suitable canula is inserted into the opening and tied in by the upper of the two threads of the double liga- ture, the vein also being ligatured below by the lower thread, so that the blood does not escape from the distal end (see Fig. 30). There may be difficulty in making the vein prominent when the circulation is feeble. If it cannot be seen by lightly constricting the upper arm, the best plan is to make a transverse cut across the direction of the vessel down to the deep fascia ; the divided ends of the vein can then be seen, the distal end liga- tured, the proximal grasped with forceps, and the canula introduced and tied in. Before the canula is inserted, a piece of india-rubber tubing is attached to it, and to the other end of this is fitted a sterilised glass funnel or the barrel of a glass syringe frtjm which the piston has been removed. The whole of this apparatus must be sterilised by boiling previous to use, iilled completely with salt solution so as to expel all the air, and clamped with a suitable clip. Care must be taken that no air gets in at any time. The funnel is held from two to three feet above the level of the patient, the clamp is opened, and the fluid allowed to flow gradually into the vein, care being taken to see that the funnel is replenished before the fluid in it has quite run away, as otherwise air may find access to the tube and so to the circulation. The rapidity of the flow can be regulated by raising the funnel above the level of the heart; this can be done better by means of a funnel than if the saline solution were injected by means of a syringe. The amount of fluid introduced should be from two to five pints, and the condition of the patient has to be carefully watched during its introduction. If it enter too rapidly, the fluid that is driven from the heart into the lungs may consist of pure salt solution, and consequently signs of imperfect aeration of the blood become evident; the respiration becomes embarrassed, and twitchings and restless move- ments occur, and the patient may che at once. If these symptoms occur, the tube should be clamped and the further introduction of fluid deferred until the dangerous symptoms have passed off. About half-an-hour should be taken to introduce two pints of the fluid, and it is well to stop occasionally I, I