331 TALIPES EOUINUS a slough form on the balls of the toes, as a permanently tender scar may be left. In many cases it is necessary to repeat the division of the plantar fascia some three or four weeks after the first operation. In no case should the tendo Achillis be divided until the foot has been unfolded and the sole restored to its normal condition. The second operation should be practised further forward than the first, so as to divide in- dividual slips of fascia which escaped division in the first operation, and which have become tense subsequently. After the surgeon is satisfied that the sole is sufficiently stretched (usually in six weeks after the treatment has been begun), the tendo Achillis may be divided, and the subsequent treatment carried out as for the first stage of the affection (see p. 326). In the most severe group uf talipes equinus two conditions are mi-t with ; eitlier simple talipes etiuinus, in which the heel is drawn up and A B Fig. 107.—Excision oI' the Astragalus. A shows the incision on the inner, B, that on the outer side. the sole of the foot is fairly straight, or very severe equinus combined with a certain amount of talipes cavus. We shall take the consideration of the former group first. {a) It is well to commence the ti'eatment with a free division of the ])lantar fascia, even although it mav ni_)t be markedly contracted. In these bad cases simple division of the tendo Achillis is not sufficient to allow the foot to be brought into its proper position. This is due partly to contraction of the ligaments of the ankle joint, but mainly to the alterations which have occurred in the anterior part of the upper articular surface of the astragalus. In most cases the surgeon has to make a choice of some severe operative procedure, but, if the patient be young, a few weeks may be devoted with advantage to ascertaining whether, after a jirehminary division of the plantar fascia, with subsequent division of the tendo Achillis and the posterior ligament of the ankle joint, con- tinuous upward pressure upon the front of the foot by means of a splint will not lead to a cure. If the deformitv be not overcome after a fair trial of these means (which are those described for the treatment of the second group of cases), the change in the shape of the astragalus must be remedied if possible. The operations at our disposal are excision of