LOCAL ANESTHESIA 482 may be considered under the following heads, viz.: (i) Freezing; (2) Drugs, either appHed to the surface or injected into the tissues; (3) Spinal injections. FREEZING. The anaesthetic properties of intense cold have long been made use of in practical surgery. In operative work, the cases most suitable for freezing are those which do not involve any large area of surface, but which only require a short, simple incision or puncture, e.g. opening a superficial abscess. The method is open to the special objections that the tissues are apt to become so hard, that it is sometimes difficult to cut through them, so no dissecting operation can be carried out; and that the process of thawing is often accompanied by much pain, the heahng is retarded, and the tissues are liable to slough. The late Sir Benjamin Ward Richardson was a great advocate for freezing anaesthesia, and introduced the ether spray. Fig. 218.—Metal Bottle containing An/Estile. The most convenient adaption of this principle of freezing by evapora- tion is seen in the use of tubes containing ethyl chloride, ansestile, and other fluids of low boiling point (Fig. 218). In these tubes, the heat of the hand suffices to drive a stream of the liquid through a minute hole in the nozzle, and at a distance of a few inches the jet is broken up into a fine spray, and, the part upon which this spray falls, is quickly frozen. These substances appear to be rather more rapid in action than pure ether, to produce a sufficient, but not too great a fall in temperature, and, therefore, the hardness of the skin, and the after-smarting are less obvious objections than when simple freezing, or the ether spray are employed. In using these tubes, care must be taken that the nozzle is held far enough off the part to enable the stream of fluid to fall in a fine shower upon the surface, otherwise, free evaporation does not take place and the freezing is much delayed. DRUGS APPLIED TO THE SURFACE. Many drugs, partly by their direct action upon the nerve endings, partly by the pressure of the fluid injected, partly by interfering with the blood supply of the part, have an anaesthetic action upon the tissues in the immediate vicinity of their point of application. For instance, an