WOUNDS i88 diet must be ordered and tonics administered. When the wound has granulated, further danger from this particular form of septic absorption disappears. TRAUMATIC FEVER. As long as the organisms that have gained access to a wound remain limited to the fluids or dead tissues in it, or are purely saprophytic in nature, they are only capable of giving rise to a condition of septic intoxi- cation pure and simple. Should any of the organisms producing this septic intoxication be capable of parasitic growth, however, and should they gain entrance to the living tissues of a wound of any size, the con- dition known as traumatic fever arises. This is due partly to absorption of the products of saprophytic growth in the wound, and partly also to the entrance of pyogenic organisms; it generally continues until the establishment of granulation and suppuration. When it occurs, the reactionary pyrexia which often follows aseptic operations runs up to 103° or 104° F. instead of abating, and then falls slowly in an intermittent manner, until the fourth or fifth day, when it falls rapidly, the final descent coinciding with the complete establishment of granulation. Traumatic fever does not usually prove fatal, unless it end in septicEemia or pyaemia ; suppuration always occurs in the wound, however, and attention must be specially directed to the local condition. TREATMENT.—As soon as traumatic fever sets in, the wound must be dressed, and efficient drainage established. When no drainage has been employed, the wound should be thoroughly opened up and large tubes inserted. When tubes have been inserted at the time of operation, the wound should be washed out with warm sterilised saline solution, with the object of getting rid of decomposing clots. This should be done at the first dressing, but should not be repeated ; washing out a wound injures the delicate granulation-tissue without killing the organisms which, being of the ordinary pyogenic variety, have already penetrated into the tissues. The injury done to the granulations by irrigation of a wound may enable the organisms to penetrate more freely into the body and set up septicaemia or pyaemia. The antiseptic dressings should be changed daily, and the surgeon must wait until he sees whether the condition merely ends in suppura- tion, or whether some more serious comphcation is going to arise. When the case ends in suppuration, the temperature falls about the fourth or fifth day, and the patient soon recovers. The diet should be somewhat restricted, and it is well to avoid the use of stunulants, or at any rate to give them only in very small quantities unless the temperature be high and the general condition bad ; during the acute sthenic stage of inflammatory fever they are not really called for. The patient should take plenty of ' imperial drink ' (see p. 15), so