230 TUBERCULOSIS not entirely meet the facts. Climatic conditions are important accessory factors. When individuals are exposed to cold and wet, and when, moreover, they congregate in small over-heated rooms, the disease is very apt to occur, especially if one of the community has tuberculosis and thus forms a focus of infection for the rest. PATHOLOGY.—When introduced into the tissues, the bacillus leads to the formation of a collection of cells, termed a tubercle. This is a collection of densely packed lymphocytes surrounding a central mass of cells termed epithelioid cells, which are much larger than the ordinary lymphocyte, and are probably derived from pre-existing connective-tissue cells, from the lymphatic endothelium, or even sometimes from the endo- thelium of the blood-vessels. Among these epithelioid cells one or more giant cells are formed, probably by the imperfect division of epithehoid cells, the nuclei dividing and separating, but the protoplasm remaining undivided. The tubercles increase in number until a large mass is formed ; caseation then commences in the older tubercles, the cells gradually die, and a cheesy material is formed in the centre, or at any rate in the older part of the mass ; this may become encapsuled and remain quiescent, or it may give rise to a chronic abscess. There is generallj^ a considerable area around the tubercles which is not yet infected with the bacillus, but which is in a state of chronic inflammation ; this chronic inflammation is of great importance in favouring the spread of the tubercle bacillus, which invades any structure thus affected more readily than one that is quite healthy. Retrogressive Changes.—The resistance of the living tissues to the growth of the organism is considerable, so that when the causes which facilitate the progress of the disease are removed, the bacillus may be destroyed or gradually cease to grow. Retrogressive changes then take place, consisting essentially in the conversion of the tubercle into fibrous tissue and the ultimate disappearance of the tuberculous material. When the tuberculous tissue has undergone caseation, however, and recovery takes place, portions of the cheesy material are absorbed, whilst others are left behind and become encapsuled or calcified and quiescent for the time being. Unfortunately the bacUli or their spores retain their vitality in these masses for an indefinite period ; as long as the capsule around the caseous material is unbroken, and the latter is protected from the action of the cells and juices of the tissues, the bacilli seem to lie dormant, but any slight injury or some constitutional cause may break up the encapsuled mass and lead to fresh growth of the organism and fresh infection of the part. It is very important to remember that, when the conditions are favourable, the body has a very strong tendency to check the growth of the bacillus or even to overcome it altogether. Various causes prevent the living tissues from destroying the tubercle, and these influences must be borne in mind so that, if present, they may be neutralised or removed. The majority of them have already been