WOUNDS 192 example, in psoas abscess. In these cases it is impossible to remove the source of infection entirely, but nevertheless the only chance for the patient is to render it as little virulent as possible. The best thing is to scrape and wash out the wound thoroughly with Barker's flushing spoon (see Fig. 52) and i in 6000 sublimate solution, and then to fiU it with iodoform and glycerine emulsion as recommended for chronic abscess (see Chap. XII.), or to use the bismuth mixture referred to in connection with sinuses associated with tuberculous disease of bone (see Vol. II.). Another example in which treatment is very difficult is tuberculous hip-joint disease in which the pelvis is extensively involved. Here the best thing probably is to perform amputation at the hip joint, which serves the double purpose of removing a considerable portion of the diseased tissues and allowing free access to the mischief in the pelvis. The disease may be completely arrested by careful removal of as much of the affected parts as possible, followed by disinfection and free drainage of the wound. When hectic fever results from long-standing empyema, it may be cured by bringing about closure of the wound by Estlander's operation (see Empyema). General.—The patient's strength must be supported by nourishing food, fresh air, and good hygienic conditions. Tonics, such as iron and quinine, will be useful, and stimulants should be given if necessary. ACUTE PY.-EMIA. Pyaemia is the gravest of the infective diseases of wounds ; it usually comes on from a week to ten days after an operation or injury. The traumatic fever has generally passed off, and the temperature has nearly reached the normal, when the patient suddenly has a rigor, which may last from twenty to forty minutes. The temperature immediately rises to 103° or 104° F., remains at that point for perhaps half an hour or more, and then begins to fall, while, coincident with the fall, there is profuse sweating. The phenomena of pyaemia thus closely resemble those of ague: there is first the cold stage, then the hot one, and finally the sweating. The temperature may fall in a few hours after the attack to what it was before the onset of the rigor, or even to normal, and for a day or two the patient may seem fairly well. Then there is another rigor, the same series of phenomena recurs, and so the case progresses, with constantly recurring rigors, the intervals between which steadily diminish, while the temperature in the intervals does not fall as low as before. The patient often becomes jaundiced, and signs of abscesses in the lung, joints, etc., manifest themselves, albuminuria develops, and death generally occurs about eight or ten days after the first onset of the disease. Although it is probable that acute pyaemia is due essentially to