336 DEFORMITIES may be averse to operation ; or the paralysis, though marked, may not be complete. On the other hand the paralysis of the calf muscles may be complete. This method is also admirably suited for the later stages of those cases in which the paralysis of the calf muscles is only partial and there is good hope that recovery may occur provided that the weak muscles can be exercised gradually and are not submitted to undue strain. It is, moreover, the only procedure that can be adopted when operative measures are refused or fail. As the child learns to walk, he should be fitted with lateral leg-irons grasping the limb just above and below the knee, and fastened below into the heel of the boot. There should also be a hinge-joint opposite the knee and the ankle ; the latter should have a stop so as to prevent the foot being bent upwards beyond a right angle, and it is well also to have an artificial tendo Achillis fitted to the apparatus (see Fig. 109) ; the most convenient arrangement is a rubber spring from the heel of the boot to the band below the knee. When the foot is lifted from the ground, the heel is drawn up by the spring, and when the foot is brought to the ground, the weight of the body stretches the rubber and allows the foot to come to a right angle, where it is stopped by the hinge arrange- ment. When the patient is not walking, it is well to take off this apparatus, which is often heavy for. an enfeebled limb, and to employ massage, electricity and douching, and the Hghter sphnt already mentioned {vide supra). By shortening: the Tendo Achillis.—When electrical examination shows that there is still some healthy muscular tissue left in the calf muscles, the usefulness of the limb may be promoted by shortening the tendo Achillis. The operations for shortening the tendo Achilhs are not always satisfactory, as the union between the divided ends may stretch after a time and allow the deformity to be reproduced. On this account simple transverse division and resection of a portion of the tendon are not always sufficient. In order to obtain a suc- cessful result, the operation should be more elaborate and designed to obtain a broader and firmer uniting surface, or the tendon need not Fig. 109.—Boot for use in Talipes Cal- caneus. The india-rubber spring behind takes the place of the faulty calf muscles. The boot is often fitted with a stop at the hinge joint opposite the anlde so as to prevent the toes being raised unduly. (Hoffa.)