WOUNDS 130 up the wound, and epithelium begins to spread over their surface when they are nearly level with the skin. While this process is going on, the cells of the granulation-tissue in the deeper parts of the wound, being protected from irritation by the granulations on the surface, develop into young fibrous tissue, and large numbers of the blood-vessels become obliterated. This young fibrous tissue at once begins to contract, and the edges of the wound become drawn together, so that, even before the spread of epithelium has commenced at the surface, the wound may be much smaller than it was when first made. When the young epithelial cells begin to spread over the surface of the sore, a delicate red line is found around its edge, because at first the epithelial cells are young, transparent, and only in a single layer, and therefore they allow the red colour of the granulation-tissue to show through. At a later period the epithelium becomes thicker, and a bluish appearance is the result ; still later, when the epithelium has been formed for some time, the thick layer on the surface becomes macerated and white, like the skin of a washerwoman's hand, and there is a white line formed. Thus, there are three zones in a healing wound—an outer white line shading off into a blue one, and this again shading off into a dehcate pink line. In many cases this pink line is not noticeable until the wound has been dried, when it wiU be seen that, while the granulations on the surface of the unhealed part begin to ooze and become moist, the red line at the edge of the wound remains dry. The detection of this red line is of importance, because it impUes that heaUng is in active progress. In the final stages of healing by granulation the new epithelium becomes thicker and thicker over the surface, so that for some weeks epitheUal scales are constantly forming. Later on, the wound contracts, and this contraction may lead to very serious deformity. The structure of the scar undergoes continued alteration until ultimately it is composed of a mass of fibrous tissue covered with epithelium, and containing very few blood-vessels ■ there is no development in it of the special structures of the skin, such as hairs and sebaceous or sweat glands. During the process of healing by granulation, the patient is exposed to the risk of severe local and general troubles arising from the various infective diseases dae to bacteria which may gain entrance through the open wound. In any case, unless the wound be aseptic or very small, there is a certain amount of fever (' traumatic fever ') during the forma- tion of the granulations, which is due to the absorption of poisonous products from the decomposition in the wound. When granulation is complete—that is to say, about the third or fourth day—the temperature falls and the fever disappears, because the granulations do not permit absorption of these poisonous products. Apart from the danger of sepsis, a drawback to this mode of healing is that the scar is larger than after healing by first intention, and the