492 EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD at c) is crossed by two series of very fine rulings. These are at right angles, and exactly mm. apart. (Certain of the squares have a double ruhng, which need not be considered here.) The area of each square is, there- fore, X 2V — iio of square millimetre, and the volume contained between it and the cover-glass is ^ iTo = t'o00 of ^ cubic millimetre. The method is as follows. Rub the patient's ear so as to make it hypersemic, and draw a small drop of blood by making a short sharp prick with a needle : a Hagedorn's needle is by far the best to use for this pur- pose, as plenty of blood can be obtained from a prick which is entirely painless. Allow a drop of blood to ooze out, and place the tip of the haemocytometer therein. Apply suction through the india-rubber tube (M) provided for the purpose, and draw up a column of fluid exactly up to the mark i just below the bulb. Withdraw the pipette, wipe off all blood from the end, insert the tip into the Toison's solution, and suck up the latter (gently revolving the pipette as you do so) until the mark loi is reached. Remove the tip of the pipette from the Toison's solution, close it by pressing it against the pulp of your forefinger, and shake gently for two or three minutes : the glass ball will act as a plunger, and the blood and fluid will be thoroughly mixed. If you are not making the examination at the patient's bedside a stout india-rubber band may now be stretched over the pipette, so as to close both orifices. It is, however, not advisable to defer the examination more than an hour or so, as very serious errors may creep in, the usual result being that the count is decidedly lowered, probably partly from adhesion of the leucocytes to the glass, and partly from the formation of clumps. If any length of time has elapsed between collecting the blood and making the examina- tion the pipette must be well shaken immediately before the preparation is made. Now clean the counting chamber thoroughly with water (never use alcohol, xylol, etc., for this purpose) and poHsh it with a clean, dry handkerchief, and treat the special thick cover-glass provided with the apparatus in the same way. Blow out about half the mixture from the bulb, wipe the end, and then blow out another small drop, which is to be deposited on the central disc; the exact amount can only be learnt by practice. Apply the cover-glass carefully: the central disc should be covered, or almost covered, by the fluid, and there should be no air- bubbles. If this is the case, or if the fluid runs into the moat, it is advis- able to clean the shde and cover-glass, and take a fresh drop. The cover-glass has now to be pressed into absolute contact with the square disc which supports it, so as to spread the fluid out into a layer just mm. deep. If gentle pressure be made, say with a needle, on the cover-glass at any part where it is in contact with the glass below ; a series of coloured rings will be seen (Newton's rings), which show that the con- tact is complete. Pressure should be made in this way at the four