139 TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS Fig. 40. — Lister's Needle for the In- troduction OF Silver Wire. If properly applied, these chps leave httle to be desired, but if they happen to sUp, a very inaccurate and unsightly scar may result; more- over, even after considerable practice, it is impos- sible to gauge the pressure they exert so accurately as to be sure that no sloughing will ensue—a most important matter in wounds upon the face and neck. They are rather more painful than ordinary sutures. If all tension can be removed by deep sutures, admirable scars may be obtained by the use of fine continuous horsehair sutures inserted with a fine round sewing-needle at the very margin of the inci- sion. The round needle-point pushes aside the fibres of the skin and does not divide them as triangular needles or those with cutting edges do. The sutures should be removed on the fourth day and a piece of gauze fixed on with collodion as described above (see p. 137). [b) When there is Great Tension.—After operations for the removal of tumours—as, for example, car- cinoma of the breast—there is often a great defi- ciency of skin, and the edges of the wound wiU not come together ^\^thout considerable traction. If the skin be pinched up by an unduly tight stitch, persistent irritation is caused, and union may fail; at any rate it will not be so rapid and firm as it should be. When inserting sutures, therefore, it is important to see that no stitch is tighter than is necessary to approxi- mate the edges of the skin, ^\^len there is much difficulty in bringing the edges to- gether, however, some irritation must neces- sarily be caused by the stitches; but this can be largely reduced by introducing a few so- called ' stitches of relaxation ' (Lister) at some considerable distance from the edges of the wound. The tension upon these may be great, and they may subsequently cut through the soft parts to a certain extent ; but they serve, temporaiily at any rate, to relax the tension upon the edges of the w'ound, which may then be stitched to- gether wdthout any tension, with the result that they will heal by primar}^ union. Hence, two classes of sutures are used when the edges of the wound require to be pulled together—namely, Fig. 41.—Method of Threading Lister's Needle with Silver Wire.