384 DEFORMITIES may require to be divided at more than one spot. Division of the tibia is more important than division of the femur, and the bone should be cut through just below the knee. The fibula is bent or broken ; if it be too firm, it may be divided, but as a rule it yields readily. The division of the tibia is best done by an oblique osteotomy. The bone is exposed by a vertical incision over the crest, and chiselled through obliquely from above downwards and backwards (see Fig. 122) ; it is then bent into position. It is often necessary also to divide the tibia lower down at the point of greatest curvature, and this may be done at the same operation. In very bad cases it may be even necessary to divide the bone a third time just above the ankle joint before the deformity can be rectified satisfactorily. The hmb should be put up in Gooch's splint (see p. 382), and the after-treatment is similar to that in cases of genu valgum (see p. 381). In bad cases it will also be found necessary to divide the femur at a later date. The osteotomy should be practised immediately above the lower end, but a second one may be required higher up the limb should the curvature be extreme. In bad cases several osteotomies may have to be done before the bones can be got satisfactorily straight; Macewen has even done as many as ten in one patient. These bad cases, however, are much less common than they were. Two or even three osteotomies may be carried out at the same time, but, when several have to be performed, it is better to do them at intervals, so as to allow union to occur in one fracture before the next is made. Should the bone be divided in several places at the same time, there is a risk of the fragments not uniting pro- perly, or if they do, it is difficult to insure that they unite in perfect position. GENU RECURVATUM. This condition is usually congenital and is comparatively rare ; in it the leg is hyper-extended at the knee-joint. It is met with in connection with congenital dislocation of the knee, and sometimes it occurs apparently from stretching of the posterior Hgaments of the joint. It is occasionally met with as the result of infantile paralysis, and it may occur in con- nection with diseases in which the patients have been kept on their backs for a long time, for instance, long-standing tuberculous, hip-joint disease, or spinal disease. It is not at all uncommon in Charcot's disease. TREATMENT.—The congenital cases are usually the only ones which call for vigorous treatment; the deformity is seldom excessive in the others and can generally be rectified by putting up the limb for a pro- longed period in a sHghtly flexed position and then employing an apparatus furnished with a hinge opposite the knee joint, fitted with a stop to pre- vent hyper-extension. In the congenital cases, however, it is often very difficult to obtain a