239 TUMOURS OF THE CELLULAR TYPE beneath. The irregular infiltrating form of epithelial growth leads to the formation of the group of malignant tumours, known as car- cinomata ; the regular non-infiltrating form gives rise to the benign growths. BENIGN VARIETIES.—Of this class we have two forms— namely, those in which the epithelium grows on a free surface,—the papillomata,—and those in which the growth is in the substance of the tissues,—the adenomata. The papillomata do not strictly belong to the tumour group, because many of them are of irritative origin and sometimes disappear spontaneously; nevertheless it is most convenient to refer to them here. Papillomata.—This group includes warts, or papillomata proper, corns and horns. Warts on the skin are usually hard and sessile, while on the mucous membrane they are soft and pedimculated. The papillae of which they are composed may be single or branched ; it is the branched form that gives rise to the pedunculated growths of which the typical examples are seen on the prepuce. Treatment.—A simple and eflectual method of treating ordinary hard warts on the skin is to pare away the dense epithelium on the surface until the vascular tops of the papillfe are exposed, and then to apply some caustic so as to destroy their bases ; the one which answers best and leaves the least scar is salicylic acid. A useful application is a mixture of 100 grains of salicylic acid in an ounce of flexile collodion, which is painted over the wart after it has been shaved down so as to expose the papilla;. Twelve hours later, as much of the collodion as will come off readily is picked away and a fresh layer applied. This is repeated night and morning, and the wart will generally be found to have withered away in the course of a week or ten days ; should the action not be sufliciently rapid, the wart should be shaved afresh from time to time. This method may be sometimes employed for gonorrhoeal warts covering the prepuce, when a large raw area would be left if they were clipped off with scissors. In this case it is not necessary to shave the wart before applying the caustic. The prepuce should be retracted, and the wart carefully dried and then painted with the salicylic collodion ; this must be allowed to dry before the prepuce is pulled forwards, as otherwise a sore may be produced on the glans by contact with the acid. It is well to introduce a piece of dry boric lint betweeia the glans and the prepuce; this absorbs moisture and prevents contact between the salicylic acid and the mucous membrane of the glans. A more rapid method of removing warts is the following. Apply undiluted carbolic acid to the wart after the skin around has been carefully greased in order to prevent the acid from running over the normal skin. The carbolic acid is allowed to soak well into the substance of the wart between the constituent papUhe. Then place a small drop of