DEFORMITIES 398 lip of the acetabulum—an event usually marked by an appreciable click —and rests over or actually in the acetabular cavity into which it is firmly jammed by carrying the limb outwards through a right angle. Owing to the fact that the head and neck of the bone are usually deflected somewhat forwards, it will be necessary to rotate the hmb a little inwards, in order to get the position of maximum stability ; the limb will therefore be parallel to the horizontal plane of the body but at right angles to the median vertical one, and in addition it will be slightly rotated inwards. After-Treatment—In this position of maximum stability the hmb is put up in a plaster of Paris spica, which, according to Lorenz, does not take in the knee. In this the child is kept for four or five months, and is allowed to crawl about as best he may; at the end of this time, another spica is applied, after the limb has been brought down to a position of acetabulum and so deepen it. The treatment lasts for eight to ten months. We are accustomed to depart slightly from this procedure. In the first place the serious troubles following the rough handUng of the muscles, such as hc-ematoma, abscess, cellulitis, etc., lead us to prefer subcutaneous division of the adductors close to their origin from the pelvis. This we do about a week before the reduction, and the manipulations are rendered easier thereby, and at the same time less likely to be followed by com- plications. In the second place we invariably include the knee in the first plaster. It seems to us that, until the parts are sufficiently adapted to their new position to keep the head of the bone in place unaided, it is essential to avoid rotation of the femur under the plaster, which can occur with the greatest ease unless the knee be included. The child is not allowed to come round from the anaesthetic until the plaster casing has set; it is well to strengthen the latter with strands of tow impregnated with plaster cream opposite the points of greatest strain. At first the child complains a good deal, but the pain usually disappears in two or three days. It is well to have a radiogram taken at this stage Fig. 139.—LoRENz's Non-operative Method for Congenital Dislocation of the Hip. Third Stage. The limit of stability of the joint having been found in the last stage, the lower extremity is put up in the above position, the knee being flexed. slight abduction and a little flexion. It is somewhat difficult to apply the spica while keeping the head of the bone firmly in place on an ordinary operating table. Lorenz has introduced a special sacral rest upon which the pelvis is supported, and this is excellent for the purpose and greatly simplifies the proceedings. In this apparatus the child is encouraged to walk as much as possible, in order to press the head of the femur against the