53 ULCERATION distances from each other ; epidermic growth occurs from each of these Httle points, and the result is that numerous small islands of epithehum form over the surface of the sore. If the grafts be close enough together and the conditions be favourable to healing, these islands soon coalesce, and thus rapid cicatrisation is obtained. These grafts should not be too far apart, because they appear to have only a limited power of repro- duction. Each graft usually gives rise to an island of epidermis about the size of a sixpence, and then growth seems to come to a standstill. The result of this method of epidermic grafting is that rapid healing is obtained in many cases, especially in burns and sores on the trunk, where the skin is freely movable over the deeper parts. The contraction of the subse- quent cicatrix is considerably diminished thereby, because less granu- lation tissue is formed than if the sore had to heal altogether from the margin, for the amount of contraction depends entirely on the amount of young granulation tissue produced. Nevertheless, considerable con- traction will inevitably occur where healing has been obtained in this way, and the resulting scar is not materially stronger than that obtained by permitting the sore to heal from the edge. With a view of obtaining a sounder scar, thicker and more extensive portions of the skin must be taken, and the grafts must be applied close together. There are two ways of doing this: either by using the whole thickness of the skin, or by employing Thiersch's method, in which about half the thickness of the skin is shaved off. We need not describe the procedure where the whole thickness of the skin is employed, partly because the results are not satisfactory, and partly because all the conditions for which it was introduced are better fulfilled by Thiersch's method. Skin-grafts can be taken either from the patient himself or from a second individual. When the patient is very debilitated, the cutaneous epithehum shares in the general malnutrition, and under these circumstances a graft from a healthy subject might succeed better than one taken from the patient. Thiersch's Method.—In employing Thiersch's method, the skin which is to be used for the grafting must first be shaved and disinfected in the usual manner (see p. 50). The presence of hairs on the grafts seems to interfere materially with their union. Preparation of the Ulcer.—[a) Preliminary.—It is of no use to graft a sore which is actually ulcerating ; it must be brought into a healthy condition, and healing must have commenced before grafting is likely to be successful. The best criterion that healing is taking place is the presence, at the edges, of the dry red line which indicates recently formed epithelium. Some surgeons wait for a considerably longer time before grafting, in order to get a firm layer of granulations ; but our experience is that the sore may be safely grafted upon as soon as heahng begins around the edge. A second essential is that the sore shall be clean. If the discharges be septic, the graft—which is after all merely