12 INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUEL.E properties. Boric acid or carbolic acid is also sometimes mixed with the poultice. Probably the best mixture is one of linseed meal and eucalyptus oil, but none of them are satisfactory from the antiseptic point of view, and hence, when an operation is likely to be required, fomentations should be substituted for poultices, at any rate for some time beforehand. When making fomentations, the precautions against loss of heat must be attended to even more carefuUy than in the case of poultices. A fomentation consists of a piece of flannel wrung out of boihng water and covered with mackintosh and a mass of wool, and the great point in its preparation is to apply it as hot as possible. A mass of wool considerably larger than the flannel should be placed in readiness before a brisk fire, and on the top of that should be placed a piece of mackintosh with the mackintosh side outwards, and large enough to overlap the flannel in all directions. A well-warmed basin is then taken, a dry towel is placed over it, and in the centre of this towel a piece of flannel of lifted up and appHed rapidly to the affected part. As soon as the patient can bear it, the whole is fixed on with a binder or bandage. When a number of fomentations have to be applied the apparatus shown in Fig. 5 is very convenient. It consists of a short jack- towel slung on two pieces of broomstick. The flannel is placed between the two layers of the towel, and the sticks brought together so that the towel and flannel hangs down between them and can be dipped in boiling water. By twisting the sticks in opposite directions the flannel can be wrung out very thoroughly. The fomentation will usually require to be renewed in from half an hour to an hour, but it may be kept warm longer by placing an indiarubber hot-water bottle outside it, if the patient can bear the pressure. When renewing the fomentations, a warm towel must be at hand, with which the skin is at once dried and chafed when the fomentation is taken away, and this towel is left in situ while the fresh one is being prepared. When there is severe pain, much relief may be afforded by sprinkling half a drachm or more of laudanum on Fig. 5.—Wringer for Preparing Fomentations. suitable size folded in two or four thicknesses is laid. Boil- ing water is poured over the flannel, which is then squeezed as dry as possible by twisting up the ends of the towel rapidly ; no water must be left in the flannel lest the patient be scalded. The folded flannel is then quickly shaken out and placed on the top of the mackintosh, and then the whole mass—^wool, mackintosh, and flannel—is