28o DEFORMITIES attacks may pass off, leaving additional thickening of the surrounding structures, or they may go on to suppuration, which may be followed by extensive cellulitis of the foot, perforation of the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe, septic arthritis, necrosis, etc. Moreover, as time goes on, these joints frequently undergo the changes characteristic of osteo-arthritis. In hallux valgus the great toe may be deflected so as to lie under or over the second ; in the latter case (which is the usual one) the toe is also rotated so that its upper surface looks somewhat inwards, and its Fig. 79.—Diagram illustrating the Principles to be observed in making Boots. C shows the deflection of the great toe and the cramped position of the others entailed by wearing the ordinary pointed-toed boots ; it will be seen that the point of the boot is opposite to the middle line of the sole. B shows the outhne of the sole of a boot constructed on sound anatomical principles. The inner border of the front part of the sole is nearly parallel to the long axis of the foot, the boot comes to a point opposite the great toe, and is sloped away from that point to the outer border in accordance with the length of the other toes, which are thus not cramped at all. A, a very usual form of so-caUed anatomical boot which, while it is free from the most flagrant faults of the usual pointed-toed variety, is not so good as B. The inner border of the sole is not quite straight, and so tends to deflect the great toe somewhat, while the squareness of the end of the boot both leaves a lot of unnecessary space between it and the toes and detracts considerably from the appearance of the foot. (After Meyer.) inner border is directed towards the sole. Thus there is adduction of the toe combined with rotation, and it is important to bear this compound deformity in mind when attempting to remedy the condition. The affection is essentially produced by ill-fitting boots, those in which the toe of the boot comes to a sharp point opposite the middle line of the foot being the chief offenders. A boot pointed in this way crowds the toes together, and if it must be brought to a point, the latter should be towards the inner side of the foot so as not to deflect the great toe from its normal line (see Fig. 80). Bunion is especially marked in those who suffer from gout or rheu- matoid arthritis ; it is probable that one of these conditions is necessary for the full development of the trouble. Cases of hallux valgus may come under observation : (i) at an early A B C