212 SYPHILIS calomel ointment (25 to 50 percent.). When a medical man is examining a case suspected to be syphilitic, the risk of infection can be minimised by wearing thin rubber gloves or by la5nng a square of gutta-percha tissue over the sore or ulcer that it is desired to examine, and palpating tlirough that. The treatment of the various lesions in the different tissues and organs, in so far as they call for special treatment, will be found in connec- tion with affections of the particular organ or tissue. Here we shall only refer to the treatment of syphilis in general. At the present time the whole question of the treatment of syphiUs is under revision. If what Ehrlich hopes from the use of his new drug ' Salvarsan ' or ' 606 ' be obtained, the treatment of syphilis by mercury and iodide of potassium will fall largely, if not entirely, into disuse. We have, however, thought it best to let these methods stand since the new compound has been only introduced so recently that a reliable and full judgment as to its merits cannot yet be formed. The immediate results that follow its use in all stages of the disease are most remarkable, but already several syphilographers are throwing grave doubts upon its efficacy ; whether it be as a result of an insufficient dose, or of faulty administration, or from some other cause, some surgeons seem already to have had recurrences. All that we have seen so far has been most favourable to the drug, but longer time must be allowed to elapse before we can venture to give a definite opinion upon the many points involved in its use. Our colleague, Dr. W. D'Este Emery, Pathologist to King's College Hospital, whose experience in the administration of the drug is consider- able, has been good enough to furnish us with the subjoined account of the technique of the procedure. The Treatment of Syphilis by 'Salvarsan' ('606').—The latest method for the treatment of syphilis consists in the use of an organic compound of arsenic, dioxydiamidoarsenobenzol, usually known by its trade-name of ' Salvarsan,' or more familiarly as ' 606.' This was introduced by Ehrlich after an exhaustive research into the action of many organic compounds of arsenic on animals infected with parasitic protozoa. It was hoped that it would act by destroying all the parasites in the body, effecting what Ehrlich terms the ' therapia magna sterilisans.* At the time of writing it is not quite certain whether this can be effected in aU, or in a large proportion of cases—or how permanent the cures which it effects may be—but we have sufficient knowledge of its action to recognise it as the most potent therapeutic agent at our disposal. Its action is extremely rapid, and it often effects in a few days an amount of benefit which could only be hoped for after some weeks of careful mercurial treatment. Given with proper precautions in suitably selected cases, it appears to be devoid of any serious injurious effects. It is at present thought to be contra-indicated in elderly patients, and in