474 ANESTHETICS place to recapitulate what may be termed the ppophylaetie treatment in respect to these symptoms, viz.—• (rt) Take care to remove beforehand anything that may obstruct the breathing, or that may fall into the throat when the parts are relaxed under antesthesia. (&) Excepting in the case of nitrous oxide, always induce anaesthesia gradually ; this does not of necessity mean slowly, but rather the gradua- tion of strength of the vapour, not increasing the strength beyond that which can be readily borne. (c) The administrator should devote the whole of his attention to the administration. He should not be called upon to hold instruments, or otherwise assist the surgeon, or even interest himself about the operation. {d) As soon as sufficiently relaxed, the head must be turned to one side, so as to permit the mucus to flow out of the mouth and prevent the tongue falling backwards. {e) The respiration and especially the expiration must be watched with particular care, the hand being occasionally held in front of the nose and mouth to test the force of the breathing. The movements of the chest and abdomen are not to be relied upon, as they may be altogether out of proportion to the amount of air actually entering the lungs. Nor is the sound of the breathing to be depended upon ; it may be largely due to mucus, or to buccal or palatine stertor. In my opinion, too, mechanical indicators in the shape of feathers, etc, are apt to be fallacious. They induce a false sense of security, as they do not distinguish between a very light and a moderately forcible expiration. At the same time the circulation, as indicated by the colour of the face and ears, should be watched, and the pupil observed. (f) If in doubt as to the exact significance of any particular or peculiar symptom or change, it is safer to allow the patient to come round rather than press the anaesthetic. Active Treatment.—If, however, any of the conditions indicated above have developed, the following routine treatment should be adopted. It is of importance that the exact order of procedure be observed ; that each step be carried out deliberately and completely without flurry ; that a wait of at least a few seconds be made between each movement, to be sure of its effect, and, in extreme cases, that treatment be persevered in for some time, even although apparently hopeless. (i) Keep the head turned to one side, but do not otherwise alter the position of the patient. Withdraw the anaesthetic. Extend the head upon the trunk by pressing backwards upon the forehead ; release the base of the tongue by forcible pressure upon the lower law at the angles, so as to protrude the lower incisor teeth beyond the upper, or by pulling forward the chin so as to raise the hyoid bone and larynx. It will often happen that in the very earhest stages of respiratory embarrassment.