DEFORMITIES 414 is consequently raised. Tliis may lead to the development of a marked lateral curvature in a weakly child. The chief requisites for a school seat and desk will be seen on reference to Fig. 142. The back of the chair should extend upwards as high as the shoulders, and should be prolonged high enough to support the head if the child suffers from a weak spine. The seat should be at such a height from the ground that the feet rest easily upon the floor, or upon a foot- rest inclined at an angle of about 20°. The breadth of the chair-seat should be equal to the length of the child's thighs, and there should be just room between the seat of the chair and the under surface of injuriously in producing curvature. Exercises to develop and strengthen the chest muscles should be prescribed unless the child be obviously perfectly robust. Massage will also be called for when there is any actual weakness of the spine ; this important factor in treatment should never be omitted. The exercises are dealt with on p. 423. When there has been disease within the thorax, etc.—In some of these cases little can be done in the way of prophylaxis. In cases of Pott's disease and rickets, appropriate treatment for the disease will stave off the onset of scoliosis. After empyema or collapse of the lung, some curvature is inevitable; it may, however, be minimised by prescribing exercises directed to bending the spine in a direction opposite to that in which the curvature is expected to take place ; these exercises should be begun before any curvature has been detected and should be persevered with for many years. the desk for the thighs. The precise measure- ments usually given are that the lower edge of the desk should be an eighth of the height of a girl and a one-seventh that of a boy above the seat of the chair. The writ- ing desk should have a gentle slope so as not to force the child to bend forward too much when he wishes to read or write. Any defect of vision should be attended to, and the child fitted with suitable glasses so as to avoid all necessity of stooping over the desk, which is likely to act