io8 WOUNDS vessel and thus draw it up to the surface. This produces a partial kink which is sufficient to check the flow of blood. Permanent.—When bleeding does not cease spontaneously soon after division of an artery, it is well to apply a ligature to the vessel. The effect of this is to divide the internal and middle coats, which curl up in the interior of the vessel, and also to constrict the external coat firmly, so as to prevent the escape of blood. The materials used for ligatures may be absorbable or non-absorbable, or absorbable only with great difficulty. The best of the absorbable materials is catgut, which, has been already dealt with fully in connection with suture materials ; its mode of preparation will be found on p. 93. Catgut prepared according to Lord Lister's recommendations is a most satisfactorv ligature material. Fig. 28.—Crile's Clamps for Temporary H,emostasis.—The blades should be sheathed in rubber tubing. Cautery.—Li parts where ligatures cannot be applied, e.g. the bladder, the bleeding may be arrested by means of the cautery, the most convenient form being Paquelin's. It must not be used white-hot, as in that case it will cut through the vessel, and bleeding will persist ; it should be allowed to cool until it is hardly red. When a hot point like this is held in contact with a vessel, it sears the tissues so that they stick together, and clotting occurs inside the artery. Torsion.—Another way in which arterial bleeding may be arrested is by torsion. The object of torsion is to twist the end of the artery so that the middle and internal coats are ruptured and curl up, while the twisted external coat forms an obstacle to the escape of blood. In order to do this, the artery must be fixed above the point at which the coats are to be ruptured, as otherwise, in a large artery at any rate, the only effect would be to twist the artery round and round in its sheath for a great distance without attaining the desired result. A large artery, there- fore, should be pulled out of its sheath and grasped with a pair of forceps transversely to its long axis above the point at which the torsion is to be employed; the cut end of the artery is then grasped with another pair of forceps, and twisted until the coats are felt to give way. Four complete revolutions are generally enough. It suffices to get a smaU artery as free from the surrounding tissues as possible, to grasp the tissues above it firmly with the fingers of one hand, and then twist up the part seized by the forceps with the other hand. Although torsion answers very well in many cases, we cannot recommend it as a satisfactory substitute for ligature. It was introduced before the aseptic period.