INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 74 must be supported by generous diet and fresh air, obtained if possible by wheeling the patient out in a suitable reclining chair every day. The heart's action must be assisted as far as possible, and for this purpose the tinct. nucis vomicae in 5-minim doses, combined with 5 minims of the tinct. digitalis, three times a day, is valuable. The free administration of opium is called for in order to relieve the pain ; this drug has a very beneficial effect in many cases of senile gangrene, even when there is no diabetes. It probably acts mainly by relieving the pain, and thus enabling the patient to get sound rest and sleep ; but some authorities consider that opium has a specific action in gangrene. It should be given four times a day, beginning with 10 to 12 minims of laudanum, or pil. saponis co. (gr. 5-10), and gradually increasing the dose. At the same time the bowels must be kept open by the use of one of the natural aperient mineral waters, or by Seidlitz powders and enemata. Stimulants will probably be required, certainly in the later periods ; whisky and brandy, in amounts from 3 to 6 ounces daily, are the best. At an early period the question of amputation must be carefully con- sidered. The old rule was that amputation should never be performed in senile gangrene, but that the part should be allowed to drop off, the utmost surgical interference allowed being to snip through dead tendons or bones ; on no account was interference with the living tissues allowable. The reason for this was that before the antiseptic era acute inflamma- tion almost always followed amputation, and when inflammation occurs in these weak tissues it is almost certain to lead to sloughing of the flaps and more rapid progress of the gangrene, which then becomes of the moist variety. At the present time, however, it is easy to avoid this inflammatory disturbance, and therefore the rules as regards amputa- tion in senile gangrene are completely altered. It is now not so much a question of recurrence of gangrene in the stump, as whether the patient has sufficient recuperative power to recover from the operation. In cases where the answer to this question is doubtful, it must be remem- bered that the patient, if left alone, wiU almost certainly die from the senile gangrene, and therefore that amputation offers practically the only chance. By operating early, and by amputating well above the dead part, the patient's strength is preserved, he is not worn out by pain and loss of sleep, and he is in a much better condition to survive the operation than if it were delayed. The only difficulty is that it is not always possible to gauge how far the process will extend; as a rule, this can be determined by ascertaining the point at which pulsation in the main vessels ceases. In some rare cases in which the artery can be felt beating strongly at the ankle joint, amputation may be performed there, prefer- ably by means of an internal flap. In most cases the pulsation at the ankle is very slight, if present at all, and when it cannot be felt there the best place for amputation is the region of the knee. The thrombus which forms in the diseased vessels when the amputation is done through