399 CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP through the plaster casing, so as to ascertain whether the head of the bone remains in place. Should it have slipped out of position, the displacement must be rectified and the limb put up as before. The plaster case is removed in ten or twelve weeks: should it become sodden with urine or ffeces, as not infrequently happens in young female children, the apparatus must be re-apphed, but no change in the position of the limb should be made until after the lapse of that time. If there be any doubt as to the recurrence of the deformity, a radiogram will settle the question. During the time that the limb is in the first plaster casing the parts are becoming consolidated after the manipulations to which they have been subjected, and the tissues around the joint contract, so that when the casing is removed, the limb often retains its abducted position spontaneously. The abduction is now gradually diminished as long as the head of the bone does not slip out of position. Directly a position reached in which the head of the bone is becoming unstable, the hmb is abducted a little more and a little flexed, and the plaster of Paris spica is re-applied. The main difference between the new position and the old one is that the degree of abduction is now less. The patient is now taught to walk with the limb abducted. Every time the weight is borne upon the affected limb, the head of the bone is pressed against the acetabulum, and the more the child stands upon the leg the longer is this pressure maintained, and the more quickly is the acetabulum increased in depth. The plaster should not be continued below the knee at the second sitting as the leg is thus left free for move- ment, which both helps to maintain its nutrition, and also facilitates walking ; the child soon learns to walk without assistance. A radio- gram will show whether the dislocation has recurred, and, if it has, the apparatus should be taken off and the head of the bone got into position again. A very easy and expeditious way of removing plaster of Paris casings is by means of Gigli's wire saw. Before the casing is applied, a piece of string dipped in oil or melted beeswax (to prevent adhesion to the plaster and subsequent fraying) is laid along the limb between the boric lint and the plaster bandage and left there. When the plaster is to be removed, one end of the wire saw is attached to one end of the string, the other end of the latter is pulled upon, and the string is withdrawn, leaving the saw in place beneath the plaster. The handles are then hooked on to the saw, and the casing can be cut through in a few seconds. If the casing be a very stout one, two pieces of string, one along each side of the limb, may be used instead of one along the centre. After about eight to ten months no further apparatus is necessary, the soft parts having become sufficiently shortened through their prolonged rest in the abducted position to keep the head of the bone in place. Indeed, it is common to find that attempts to adduct the limb fully cause pain, and the patient naturally keeps the limb somewhat abducted. The