LOCAL ANESTHESIA 484 (3) Painted on the surface, e.g. mucous membranes, etc. Or a pledget of cotton wool soaked in the solution may be allowed to remain for a few minutes in contact with the area of operation. This latter plan is useful in operations about the anterior nares and aural meatus, but mere painting on the unbroken skin is of but little service. Dangers.—Many people are particularly susceptible to the action of cocaine ; even a few minims sprayed upon the throat may give rise to a train of symptoms of a really alarming character, such as vertigo, dryness of the mouth, dilated pupils, cold extremities, palpitation, slow pulse of high tension, restlessness and delirium, and several fatal cases have been recorded. In using cocaine, therefore, it is particularly advisable that, whenever possible, the patient should be recumbent, and, as a precaution, a cup of hot, strong beef-tea, or an alcoholic stimulant may be given beforehand. Should alarming symptoms develop, the patient must immediately be placed recumbent, hot bottles applied to the extremities, stimulants given, and other precautions taken to avoid collapse. Amyl nitrite given in the usual way is said to be a very efficient antidote. It is claimed by some that these poisonous effects may be avoided if antipyrin be added in the proportion of 8 grains to each grain of cocaine contained in the solution. Nowadays it is the custom to add a few drops of the i in 1000 solution of adrenalin (an extract of the supra- renal body) to the cocaine solution, and this is said not only to increase the safety of the drug, but also to render the tissues more anaemic. DRUGS INJECTED INTO THE TISSUES. Of late years certain allied synthetic compounds or derivatives of cocaine have been introduced, and appear likely to supplant cocaine for many purposes, especiaUy for injections into the tissues. The best known of these are: Tropoeaine, dose i or 2 c.c. of a 5 per cent, solution ; derived from Java Coca ; Eueaine, dose up to 6 grains see below; Novo- eaine, dose from 4 to i grain ; Stovaine, dose from J to | grain ; Alypin, dose to J grain. While equally efficacious, these bodies appear to be far less likely to give rise to toxic symptoms than cocaine itself. It is customary, however, to add a small amount of Adrenalin to the solutions as indicated above. In any plan that may be employed, it is of the utmost importance that both the solutions and the instruments, used for the purpose, should be absolutely sterile. The solutions should be made with isotonic salt solution, and the sites of the injections, the anaesthetist's hands, etc., as thoroughly washed and purified as for a major operation. Apart from lumbar injections (which wUl be dealt with separately), the following are the principal plans adopted.