INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 36 warm boric lotion or weak sublimate solution, and applied over the whole surface of the wound, and then covered with a piece of mackintosh extending beyond the lint in all directions. This requires to be changed at least three or four times a day, when the wound and the skin around should be washed with a i in 2000 perchloride solution. When the acute symptoms have passed off, and the wounds have become reduced to simple healing sinuses, an antiseptic dressing of cyanide gauze and wool is perhaps the best, and should be employed until the sinuses have contracted down and there are only fiat granulating sores left. When the wounds are quite superficial, there is no objection to the employment of eucalyptus ointment, under which they will heal Fig. 13.—Method or Applying a Splint to the Hand and Forearm in Cellulitis. To show the position that the thumb should be made to assume. rapidly. The ointment should be spread thickly on pieces of boric lint, and at each dressing all the ointment from the previous apphcation should be removed, together with any scabs and crusts of discharge. Ointment should not be used as a dressing over the mouth of a deep sinus. Certain other points in the local treatment of diffuse cellulitis must be attended to. It is of primary importance that the part should be placed absolutely at rest, if necessary on a splint, and the position of the limb should be so arranged that, should stiffness result, as it is apt to do, the limb will be in the position most convenient for the patient. For example, in the case of the hand, the fingers should not be extended, because if they become stiff in that position they are useless ; they should be about half-bent over a pad, and the thumb especially should be kept apart from the fingers, and allowed to drop. If the thumb be kept at the same level as the fingers, and stiffness result, the power of opposi- tion is more or less lost; whereas, if it be allowed to drop below the level