502 EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD The examination is of some value in the diagnosis and prognosis of sepsis. Locahsed inflammatory disorders are usually accompanied by a moderate degree of anaemia, which is roughly proportionate to the extent and severity of the disease, and its duration. In general sepsis this is usually much more marked, and the haemoglobin may fall to a very low figure in a few days. This is a sign of very bad omen, and a pro- gressive fall in the haemoglobin is one of the surest indications of the pro- gress of the disease. On the other hand, a cessation of the fall, or a rise, are extremely favourable signs, and wiU frequently form the first indi- cation of a turn for the better. This is especially useful in puerperal cases. Next to sepsis, the disease in which anaemia develops most rapidly is malaria, and a rapid fall of the haemoglobin may sometimes permit of a diagnosis between this disease and others (such as pneumonia or typhoid fever) in which the anaemia does not develop so quickly. The term ' colour index ' is used to denote the average amount of haemoglobin contained in each corpuscle, the normal amount being regarded as i. To obtain it, it is necessary to find the percentage amount of red corpuscles present, 5,000,000 being regarded as normal; thus, 2,000,000 red corpuscles per cubic millimetre constitutes 40 per cent, of normal. The percentage of haemoglobin present is then divided by the figure thus obtained. Thus, if in the example just quoted there was 24 per cent, of haemoglobin in the blood the colour index would be = 0'6, i.e. each corpuscle would contain only six-tenths of its normal amount of haemoglobin. In most forms of anaemia the colour index is slightly below unity : in chlorosis it is usually very low, 0"5 or less ; and in pernicious anaemia it is above the normal. THE BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD. This is a matter of some difficulty, and expert help should be called in where possible. Cultures are necessary in almost all cases, and the blood must be taken direct from a vein, for contaminations are almost certain if the culture-material is taken from a puncture in the skin, no matter how carefully this may have been sterihsed. I prefer a special pipette made like a hypodermic syringe, but longer, and devoid of a piston ; but in the absence of this, an all-glass 5 c.c. or 10 c.c. exploring syringe will answer very well. Cultures should be made in broth and on the surface of a solid medium, such as agar or blood serum, and these materials must be at hand at the time of the operation. Proceed as follows : Put the syringe in a sterihser to boil; it should be kept at the boihng point for at least ten minutes, and should be allowed to cool spontaneously before being removed from the water. Prepare the skin over the antecubital fossa as though for an operation, washing off the antiseptic used by means of a stream of methylated spirit immediately