GENU VALGUM 377 producing an external wound may be dismissed as unsuitable ; it is impossible to gauge the amount of injury done, or the exact seat of the fracture produced, while there is not the least advantage in its use con- sidering the great safety of the ordinary operation. Amongst the open operations, the following are most frequently performed : division of the femur just above the epiphyseal line (Macewen's operation) ; division of the tibia below the upper epiphysis ; or division of both femur and tibia (see Fig. 126). From a consideration of the pathological changes present, it is evident that correction of the deformity in bad cases can only be obtained by the combined operation, and it may be laid down as a general rule that, when the interval between the malleoli is as much as six inches, this procedure should be adopted. In the less severe cases, however, good results may be obtained by dividing either of the bones A B CD Fig. 126. Various Forms ok Osteotomy for Genu Valgum. A. Macewen's operation. B. A similar operation, the section being made from the outer side instead of the inner. C. Division of the tibia below its upper epiphysis; this may either be linear or cuneiform. D. Division of both femur and tibia. (Modified from Hoffa.) alone, and in j)ractice it is immaterial whether the femiu" or the tibia be selected for division ; probably a neater result is obtained by division of the tibia. The femur, however, is the bone most frequently divided, but this operation (Macewen's) often produces an unsightly bowing outwards and forwards in the lower third of the bone. The best plan is to have a radiogram of the limb taken in the position in which the amount of the deflection is estimated [supra), and this will show whether the femur, the tibia or both are affected and to what degree. The operation can then be decided upon in accordance with the information thus obtained. Macewen's Osteotomy.—In dividing the femur by Macewen's method, the section is made from the inner side, and the deformity is rectified, partly by squeezing together the bone on the inner side of the lemur, and partly by opening out an angle on the outer side. Some surgeons prefer to divide the bone partly across from the outer side, and then to convert this incision into an open angle by producing a greenstick