365 CURVED TIBIA AND FIBULA Prepare at a time only enough milk for one meal. Never give what is left over in the bottle for the next meal. Taste the milk before feeding, and be sure it is not sour or smoked. GENERAL DIRECTIONS. I. —Sleeping.—The child should sleep in a cot or basket alone. Many babies are overlaid every year from sleeping with their parents. If babies kick off the bedclothes, put them in long flannel nightgowns, fastened below the feet and at the wrists and throat. They must not lie between window and door, or fireplace and door. Keep the window open all night in hot weather. Keep a small fire burning all night in cold weather. II. —Clothing.—Should be loose round the chest and close round the belly. Do not let them go about with nothing on below the armpits but petticoats. A flannel binder round the belly and warm drawers should always be worn. III. —Washing.—Wash them all over with soap and warm water night and morning. Dirty children are always delicate. They will not take cold if carefully dried, especially about the head and ears, after the bath. It is a good plan to put them to bed between the blankets for half-an-hour after the morning bath. IV. —Fi'csh Air and Sunlight are nearly as important as food to children. Take them out every day in fine weather. A perusal of these rules will show that the dietetic treatment consists largely in the avoidance of too much farinaceous food, and—a point of particular importance—the withholding of it at an early period of life. The hygienic treatment is directed essentially to obtaining an unlimited supply of pure fresh air and sunshine. If possible, the children should be sent away to the country, and of course any other measures for improving the general health that may be found appropriate to any individual case should be adopted. Amongst drugs, cod liver oil is the most generally useful, and in these cases it may be combined with phosphorus, , ,\7jth of a grain of the drug being added to each dose of the oil. Vmum ferri (dose 3ss—3j), or syrup of the hypophosphites (dose 3ss—3j) may also be given. The state of the digestive organs will require particular attention, and special care has to be taken to prevent the occurrence of constipation. Local Treatment.—-It is important to bear in mind that, in the early stages of the disease, there is a marked tendency to the spontaneous cure of the curvature, and, to facilitate this, the first essential is to prevent the patient walking, and thus to lake the toeiglU of the body off the feet, and so to avoid increasing the curve mechanically. Appropriate general treatment must not be neglected. In many of the slighter cases, when the patient is properly dieted, put luider suitable hygienic conditions, and prevented from bearing weight upon the limb or from lying with the limb on its outer side (which would increase the curve), the bones undergo solidification, and the curve not only ceases to extend, but disappears entirely. It is advantageous to employ massage and electricity. At the same time the limb may be douched and attempts made to reduce the curvature