248 TUMOURS almost at once. A good example of this may be seen in cases of cancer of the tongue of comparatively limited extent, in which there is extensive involvement of glands that cannot be removed. In a case like this the patient's sufferings are mainly due to the growth of the cancer in the tongue, and much pain and distress may be saved by removing the disease in the tongue without attempting to remove the infected glands. It is also sometimes possible and advisable to remove an ulcerating cancer of the breast so freely as to make immediate recurrence at the site of operation improbable, although the co-existing glandular infection may be so extensive that there is no hope of ridding the patient of the disease. It also happens not infrequently that a cancer of the intestine causes obstruction, but can be excised though there are secondary growths present which cannot be got rid of; here an enterectomy may save the patient much suffering and discomfort. It is important, however, to be quite sure that operation is for the benefit of the patient before such partial procedures are undertaken. Palliative Operations.—When the tumour is inoperable, the condition of the patient may sometimes, nevertheless, be improved by operations in which the disease is not interfered with. The best example of operations of this type are the various short- circuiting operations done in connection with the intestinal tract—for example, colostomy for rectal cancer, gastro-jejunostomy for pyloric cancer, or tracheotomy for larnygeal cancer. Sometimes mahgnant disease gives rise to intense pain which does not yield to sedatives, and benefit may be derived by dividing the sensory nerves concerned, or even by the division of the posterior spinal nerve roots. Another example of an operation designed to improve the condition of the patient without direct interference with the growth is the attempt to cut off the circulation to the affected part and so to starve the growth. Thus in cancer of the tongue, the circulation through the lingual arteries may be obstructed by injecting boiling water into them ; this plan has occasionally resulted in a remarkable improvement. THE TREATMENT OF INOPERABLE OASES.—When a case is unsuitable for a radical operation, partial or palliative operations will be adopted if they are suitable ; but in addition it is often well, if only for the patient's peace of mind, to adopt any measures that may arrest or delay the progress of the growth, and it is here that radium, X-rays, and other palliative measures are useful. These measures sometimes appear to delay the progress of the disease, and they may relieve the patient's sufferings considerably, while they frequently give hope to patients and their friends, and thus alleviate the anxiety inseparable from a case in which further operative treatment has been abandoned. Many remedies for inoperable cancer have been introduced, but the majority of them are useless ; there are some, however, which are worth mention.