249 TUMOURS OF THE CELLULAR TYPE Radium is of great value in rodent ulcer, and claims are being made for it in other forms of malignant disease ; as yet, however, there is no clear evidence that it has any permanent value in these cases. It is quite reasonable, however, to employ it for inoperable cases, and when large supplies of radium can be obtained, and it can be brought into close contact with the malignant disease, good results may follow. At the present time the supply of radium is small and is in the hands of only a few persons. It is therefore unnecessary to go into details as to its method of application. The use of X-rays is on a similar footing. Good results occasionally follow their use in superficial cancers ; for example, some of the dis- seminated nodules over the chest in cancer of the breast may dwindle and even disappear. But the rays are apparently unable to penetrate and destroy cancer cells situated in deeper parts. Nevertheless, a course of X-ray treatment may be of distinct value in obtaining healing of an ulcerating surface, and delaying the spread of the disease. The pain from which the patients suffer is often relieved by the rays. A vaccine made from the micrococcus neoformans has been intro- duced, and in some cases marked by severe cachexia the general con- dition of the patient has improved noticeably under its use ; we cannot say, however, that we have observed any definite action on the growth itself. Coley's Fluid.—Acting on the observation that in some cases sarcomata improve and even disappear entirely after an attack of erysipelas, Coley introduced a fluid composed of a mixed cultivation of streptococcus erysipelatosis and micrococcus prodigiosus, in which the organisms have been killed by heat. The injection of this fluid into the tumour or into other parts of the body has been followed by the dis- appearance of the growth in a certain number of cases, while in other instances no effect has been produced. The growths that have proved most amenable to the use of Coley's fluid are spindle-celled sarcomata. The injections, commencing with a dose of half a minim, must be made with strict antiseptic precautions. This dose usually only produces a slight malaise, but there may be severe constitutional disturbance in susceptible patients, the temperature rising to 103°, with headache, rigors, and all the symptoms of septic absorption, while there is swelling, redness, pain, and tenderness at the seat of the injection; if, however, the injection has been made with full antiseptic precautions there is no risk of an abscess forming. When there is no reaction, the dose may be repeated next day, preferably into some other part of the body ; on the third day half a minim may be injected into the tumour and another half into the flank. From this point onwards, the dose may be increased by a minim a day until a reaction occurs ; this usually takes place about the end of the first week. The injections must now be governed by the temperature, the object being to get a well-marked rise of temperature