AFTER-TREATMENT 477 be quite understood, however, that although these plans are to be carried out concurrently with the artificial respiration, and on no account is the latter to be superseded by them. (7) Cold affusions in the shape of douches or flipping the chest with wet towels. Alternate very hot and cold sponges to the perineum. (8) Inhalation of nitrate of amyl to alter the distribution of the intra- vascular tension. Strong ammonia held to the nose. (9) Electricity. Either the interrupted (Faradic) or the continuous current may be used. One pole is applied to some neutral point, e.g. the nape of the neck, and the other pole is pressed over the cardiac area, along the costo-diaphragmatic margin, or along the course of the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves in the neck, the current being alternately made and broken. (10) Hypodermic injections of ether or brandy (n\xxx) are usually given, but the proceeding is a little illogical. The patient is already suffering from a form of alcoholic poisoning, and, further, the circulation is too depressed to hope for absorption. For this latter reason, too, the hypodermic injection of drugs, such as digitaline, is hopeless at this stage. (11) The intra-venous injection of normal salt solution, or rectal injec- tions of the same, appear to be more rational. By altering the blood pressure they may possibly stimulate the circulation. {12) As almost a last resource, aeu-puneture op galvano-puncture of the heart itself has been recommended. It has even been suggested that by making a small incision along the margins of the left ribs, the fingers of the hand can be passed in, and direct pressure applied to the heart. I have no personal experience of these measures, but it appears to me that acu-puncture and galvano-puncture not only waste valuable time, but are more likely to do harm than good. The plan of directly pressing on the heart seems to be better justified, theoretically, but it has not been very successful in the few cases in which it has been put to practical proof. Supposing that no response has been obtained to these efforts, the artificial respiration should be persevered in for at least half an hour, and of course, if the slightest attempt at natural breathing be made, a longer time should be given to the work. Even after a fairly regular, though feeble respiratory rhythm has been re-established, the greatest care should be taken in moving the patient, as relapses are apt to occur ; he should not be left for some hours, and should be kept very warm. AFTER-TREATMENT. In conclusion, a few words may be said as to the after-treatment of patients recovering from an anaesthetic, as this is a point upon which the aneesthetist is often consulted. Practically, no after-treatment is required