TUMOURS 252 the spine, or in each anterior triangle of the neck, but it occurs also over the abdomen, the arms, and elsewhere. More frequently, however, the lipomata are eireumseribed, soft, and lobulated encapsuled tumours; there is often only very delicate tissue connecting the lobules together. They are usually smooth on their deeper surface, and when growing in the subcutaneous tissues they penetrate among the fibrous bands connecting the under surface of the skin with the tissues beneath, so that the skin does not move quite freely over them. They possess a more or less well-defined capsule, out of which they are readily shelled. They occur at all ages and grow slowly ; they are met with most frequently in the subcutaneous tissues where fat is abundant, such as the back of the neck, the front of the thigh, the abdominal wall, the arms, the axillae, the buttocks, etc. Treatment,—(«) Of the Encapsuled Variety.—These growths are readily removed, and shell out of their capsule without any trouble, but care must be taken to see that none of the outlying lobules are left behind, as those left will grow again and form a fresh tumour. The best way to remove a lipoma is to squeeze up the tumour forcibly between the thumb and forefinger of the left hand and make the skin very tense over it. Then, on incising the skin, subcutaneous tissue and capsule, the lipoma is projected forcibly through the incision, and its complete enucleation is insured. When hpomata occur in parts subject to pressure, inflammation, leading to adhesions between the tumour and the skin covering it, or the structures over which it lies, is not uncommon ; in such cases care must be taken to remove the whole of the tmnour, and it is generally best to remove the adherent skin as well. [b) Of the Diffuse Variety.—In these cases the question of operation depends on the amount of pain and unsightliness that the tumour causes and on the wislies of the patient. As the mass is not encapsuled it is not possible, as a rule, to remove the growth entirely, and therefore it is likely to grow again; but in many cases considerable improvement both as regards pain and appearance, can be effected by excising as much of it as possible ; in doing this care must be taken to avoid damage to important structures, such as nerves, etc. diondromata are tumours consisting essentially of cartilage, of which they may embrace all varieties, including the ramified cell form without capsule usually found in embryonic conditions and in some of the lower animals. For the most part the cartilage resembles the normal hyahne variety, but it differs from it in that the blood-vessels penetrate into the cartilaginous nodules. The tumour is composed of an aggregation of nodules of cartilage separated by fibrous tissue, and is encapsuled. Chondromata form rounded or lobulated tumours which may surround various structures, such as tendons, nerves, or vessels, without actually destroying them. On section they are usually semi-transparent, greyish-