GANGRENE 83 Acute Traumatic Gangrene.—This is a form that attacks wounds and is due to tlie growth of bacteria in the tissues ; it especially attacks wounds which have been soiled with earth. The emphysematous form of the affection is probably most often due to the presence of a gas-producing organism, the bacilhis aerogenes capsulatus, but the bacillus of malignant oedema may produce similar symptoms without much gas in the tissues ; there are probably other organisms also concerned in some of these cases. The disease usually begins about the second or third day after the accident. As a rule, its course is very rapid, averaging about three days before the death of the patient; the part becomes greatly swollen and oedematous and generally crepitates from the presence of enormous quantities of gas developed in the tissues. The constitutional symptoms are always severe, the temperature is usually high, the pulse rapid and ultimately irregular. In addition to this there is great prostration, tlie patient's condition passing rapidly into the ' typhoid state.' Treatment.—The first point in the treatment is prophylaxis. When wounds are soiled with earth or dirt, especial care should be taken to dis- infect them, and the best plan is to place the patient under an ansesthetic, to scrub out the earth with a nail brush and ' strong mixture ' (see p. 50), and then to apply undiluted carbolic acid to the whole surface of the wound. It must be remembered that acute traumatic gangrene is not the only disease which results from the soiling of wounds with earth, malignant oedema and tetanus being often produced in a similar manner. Hence thorough disinfection of such wounds is imperative. Local Treatment.—In acute traumatic gangrene of the extremities, amputation at the highest possible point offers the only chance of saving the patient. Almost all the patients attacked by this affection die, and unfortunately even after amputation only about 5 per cent, recover, because it is extremely difficult and often impossible to get above the disease except at a very early stage. In amputating, the greatest care must be taken to disinfect the skin, and especially to avoid soiling the amputation wound with the discharge from the gangrenous part. Hence, in addition to the ordinary disinfection of the skin at the seat of ampu- tation, the gangrenous extremity should be wrapped up in antiseptic gauze wrung out of the strong mixture, and then enveloped in sterilised jaconet or mackintosh firmly fastened round the hmb, well above the upper limit of the gangrene, so tliat none of the contents of the bullae, etc., can run out. This is done by an assistant who is not afterwards allowed to take any part in the operation. In operating on these cases the use of all other measures employed in the prevention of shock (see Chap. VI.) will probably be called for. In these cases, too, it is important to avoid the use of a general ansesthetic, and spinal anaesthesia (see p. 486) finds a very useful application. After the operation, the flaps should be left open, two or three loose stitches at most being inserted. If the patient survive, the wound can