WOUNDS When a drainage-tube is introduced it need not extend the whole length of the wound so long as it passes into the deeper parts of it; and it is well, in order to avoid the risk of displacement of the tube, to stitch the outer end to the edges of the skin after cutting the tube flush with the surface. Drainage-tubes need not be left in a wound longer than three or four days unless sepsis occurs. If it be desired to leave a particularly small scar, a few strands of horsehair will suffice to form a fine capillary drain. Drainage should be carried out by means of tubes; the gauze wicks which are so much used at the present time are objectionable and inefficient. oooOO 0090 000000 Fig. 51.—Sizes of Drainace-Tubes.—There is no standard gauge for these, each instrument-maker numbering them independently. The numbers quoted in this book refer to drainage tubes whose cross-section is represented in this figure. Dressings.—After having completed the operation, stitched up the wound, and arranged for drainage if necessary, the next point is the application of the dressings. Before the dressings are applied, the blood should be squeezed out of and removed from the neighbourhood of the wound, care being taken to wash away from the wound and not towards it. During this process, it is well to protect the wound from infection by means of a piece of cyanide gauze soaked in i in 2000 sublimate solution, which is removed just before the dressing is applied. At the present time the tendency is to use dry dressings, which possess two great advantages. In the first place, the blood dries quickly in them, and does not therefore form a suitable soil for the development of organ- isms ; and consequently, if the dressings be not quite aseptic or, the skin be not completely disinfected, the organisms may be unable to grow and reach the wound. In the second place, the dried-up blood- stained dressings adhere to the skin and form a sort of splint, which keeps the edges of the wound at rest.