GANGRENE 71 water-pillow is used, it must be neither over- nor under-filled; in the former case, it becomes hard and convex, and does not apply itself evenly to the skin, so that as much pressure is exerted upon the part as if there were no water-pillow at all. On the other hand, if there be too little water, the patient is not properly supported, and the part comes into contact with the bed. A good method of testing the filling is to bear one's whole weight on the pillow by pressing the two spread-out hands in the centre ; if they just touch the other side of the water-pillow, the patient's body will float when laid upon it. A large water-pillow must be filled upon the bed. The water should be tepid when introduced, and it ought to be changed every three or four days, otherwise it is apt to become foul. The pillow is covered by a draw-sheet, and great care should be taken that this does not become wrinkled. When the pressure is only over a limited area, or the patient is a small child, an air-cushion may be used for the same purpose. A second point in the avoidance of bed-sore is to sec that the parts most exposed to pressure are kept dry. The patient should be turned over twice a day, and the sacral or any other region subjected to pres- sure, should be carefully washed and dried ; after this the part should be rubbed gently with a soft towel so as to improve the circulation, and the nutrition of the tissues should be further promoted and the epidermis hardened by the apphcation of some stimulating fluid, such as spirits of wine or whisky. The spirits of wine is allowed to dry on the skin, which is then gently chafed, and subsequently dusted with boric acid powder. When a bed-sore is threatening—that is to say, when the skin is becoming red—the same measures should be continued, but it is well to relieve the pressure entirely by placing a ring-pillow around the part on the surface of the water-bed. When the skin is becoming raw, lint spread with equal parts of balsam of Peru and resin ointment is a good application; it should be renewed night and morning, after the part has been washed, dried, and rubbed with alcohol. When a bed-sore has funned, the slough, and subsequently the sore, must be kept as aseptic as possible. When the patient is lying on the affected area it is impossible to carry out one of the chief principles in the treatment of gangrene, namely, to favour the drying of the slough, and, that being the case, there is no objection to the use of antiseptic ointments. Full-strength boric or eucalyptus ointment may be used and should be changed for the haK-strength boric ointment when the slough has separated. Balsam of Peru, either alone or mixed with an equal quantity of white of egg, is also a good dressing. As soon as possible the patient should be made to lie upon one side, when the sore will usually begin to heal, unless the general condition be extremely feeble. The patient's general nutrition should be promoted by the administration of hght and easily digested food and stimulants.