54 INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS a piece of dying tissue—will become impregnated with decomposing pus, and may rapidly become loosened, die, and undergo decomposition. The methods of rendering the ulcer aseptic have already been described (see p. 49). [b) Operative.—The following is the method of procedure. The patient is put under an anaesthetic, and the granulations over the whole surface of the ulcer are forcibly scrubbed off with a firm nail-brush or are evenly scraped away, taking care, however, only to remove the soft layer of granulations and not to go through the deeper one of newly formed fibrous tissue into the fat. A surface is thus left which is smooth, highly vascular, and firm, and consists of the deeper layers of granula- tion tissue which have already become organised into fibrous tissue. In the case of ulcers on the lower extremity, it is also advisable to remove those portions of the edge which have already become covered with new epithelium. If the grafting be limited to the parts actually unhealed, the result is disappointing, as a rule; for, while the part grafted remains sound, the margin where spontaneous healing had occurred is apt to break down, and thus a narrow line of ulceration appears at the site of the edge of the ulcer. After the layer of granulations has been removed and the newly healed edge of the ulcer has been cut away, the bleeding must be arrested completely before the grafts are applied. The most rapid method is to pour a few drops of adrenalin chloride (i in looo) solution over the raw surface, when the oozing ceases immediately. If adrenalin be not at hand the following plan will be found satisfactory. Any spouting vessel is clamped, and a large piece of sterilised protective (see p. 51) or thin sheet-rubber is applied over the raw surface. Outside this several sponges are placed, and a sterilised bandage is bound firmly over them ; if the sore be small and an assistant be available, he may apply the pressure. Pressure is employed indirectly through the pro- tective in this way, because if it were made directly upon the surface of the wound by means of sponges, bleeding would recommence when the latter were removed, as they stick to the raw surface. Cutting- the Grafts. — While the bleeding is being arrested, the surgeon cuts his skin-grafts from any part of the body that he thinks fit; as a rule they are taken from the front of the thigh, but the side of the abdomen may be made use of when the grafts are to be applied to the face. The area from which the grafts are to be cut is disinfected (see p. 49) and the surgeon grasps the limb from behind with his left hand in such a way as to make the skin over the front of the limb as tense as possible ; in doing this he pushes the soft parts well forward so as to make the anterior aspect of the limb as flat as possible. The skin is further put on the stretch vertically by an assistant who pulls it upwards and downwards (see Fig. 17). These precautions are important, as, without them, it is almost impossible to cut a graft of even width. The