371 B B 2 CHAPTER XVIII. GENU VALGUM: GENU VARUM: GENU RECURVATUM. GENU VALGUM. By the term genu valgum or knock-knee, is understood a deformity of the lower extremity in which the leg is deflected outwards, so as to form with the thigh an angle which is smaller than the normal. It may appear at two periods of life ; either during the first five or six years of life or during adolescence. OAUSES.—The ordinary form of the affection arises spontane- ously, but a similar deformity may appear under other circumstances. For example, it may follow some injury or disease of the lower end of the femur, which destroys the outer part of the epiphyseal line, so that normal growth takes place on the inner side, but is arrested on the outer, and the leg, therefore, becomes deflected outwards. Some degree of genu valgum is fairly common in association with osteo-arthritis of the knee joint, and it is also met with in connection with Charcot's disease of the knee. It is also a not infrecjuent sequela of infantile paralysis, and it may result from any accident involving rupture or extreme stretching of the internal lateral ligament of the knee joint. It may sometimes arise after excision of the knee, when the patient is allowed to get about too soon, and the weak union between the bones yields and allows the production of this angular deformity ; another cause of its occurrence after excision is that the bone section may have damaged the outer part of the epiphyseal line, and have left the inner part intact, so that growth occurs normally on the inner side, while it is arrested on the outer. We shall only deal here with those forms of genu valgum which occur spontaneously in infants and young adults without the occurrence of any injury, operation, or paralysis. There has been considerable discussion as to the nature of the deformity in this variety. Recent researches, in particular the work of Mickulicz, show that there is no change in the epiphyses of the femur or the tibia either in the child or in the young