455 ADMINISTRATION OF ETHER ficial reflexes; but the deeper reflexes are retained, so that there is still the power of coughing and swallowing, and, when the skin incisions are made, the muscles are apt to be thrown into spasm. The fourth stage is char- acterised by more markedly stertorous breathing, dilated pupils, fixation of eyeballs, and abolition of all reflexes, both superficial and deep. As a general rule, the fourth, or most profound degree of anaesthesia, is kept up only while the primary incisions are made, after which the patient may be allowed to fall back to the third degree ; but in cases where con- siderable shock is to be anticipated, as in operations upon the abdomen, on the large joints, in the genito-urinary areas, etc., it is of great importance that the anaesthesia should be maintained fairly deeply throughout. There are three special points in connection with ether anaesthesia which must be noted. If the vapour be introduced too rapidly, or its strength increased too suddenly, some temporary laryngeal spasm, with more or less coughing and straining, will very likely ensue ; if this does not disappear in the course of a few respirations, air must be admitted and the proportion of vapour diminished. It is generally possible to induce anaesthesia with but little alteration in the colour ; for the first four or five minutes, however, some slight lividity is excusable, but it is quite a mistake to suppose that persistent and marked blueness is of necessity associated with the use of ether ; such a condition means either bad administration, or that the patient is not a fit subject for this particular drug. Directly the colour commences to change, air must be admitted beneath the edge of the facepiece, and if, in spite of the free admission of air, the lividity persists, or sufficiently profound anaesthesia cannot be obtained, it is wisest to change the anaesthetic. The third point is, that there is a considerable increase in the flow of mucus and saliva ; as soon, therefore, as the muscles of the neck become sufficiently relaxed, the head must be turned to one side, so as to encourage this excessive secretion to flow into the cheek, and so out of the mouth. This is much facilitated by tucking the corner of a towel, or a tampon of lint into the cheek. The essential characteristic of ether anaesthesia is the stimulation. The respirations increase in frequency and depth, and, partly on account of the presence of mucus in the air passages, they are usually noisy. The pulse becomes quicker, of greater volume, and improved in tone ; an erythe- f matous flush (ether rash) often appears over the neck, chest, and arms, and may be so well marked, and so extensive, as to be mistaken at first sight for one of the exanthemata. The pupils are widely dilated during the stage of excitement and struggling, moderately contracted during the comparatively light aucEsthesia of the middle of the third stage, but tendnig to dilate as the narcosis becomes deeper ; unless this dilatation takes place very suddenly, it is not of necessity a sign of danger, as in the case of chloroform.