388 DEFORMITIES flexion can be obtained, and the patient may actually be able to make the feet meet behind the head. The feet are frequently kept rotated outwards at right angles to the antero-posterior plane of the body with the knees somewhat bent, and the child can neither walk nor stand upright. When the affection is met with in adults, in addition to the deformity, it is common to find complaints of a sensation of fatigue in the early stages of the affection, and of pain about the hip-joint, which becomes more severe as the disease progresses. Later on, the patient begins to limp, and ultimately he experiences difficulty in stooping, and notices that the movements of the hip-joint are restricted and abnormal. If the case be left to itself the final result is that the bone undergoes consolidation in the faulty position and the deformity is thus permanent ; the patient is compelled to limp about with the feet turned out and suffers considerably from interference with the movement of the hip-joint. TREATMENT.—In Young Children—While the child is quite young and the bones are very soft, an attempt should be made to rectify the abnormal curves by means of extension and manipulation. Most of the milder cases in young children can be cured by simple extension, the leg being put up in a position of moderate abduction. Indeed rest in bed for several weeks will sometimes produce great improvement, without the use of any extension. Meehanieal.—It is not easy to devise an apparatus to maintain steady pressure upon the bone in a direction such as to restore the normal curvature of its neck, but the following arrangement (see Fig. 133) has proved very successful in our hands. A strip of malleable iron of suitable length is ap- plied along the back of each lower limb. Each strip should reach from the centre of the thigh above and should be ac- curately adapted to the middle line of the back of the thigh and the calf, being bent round behind the heel and up along the centre of the sole, project- ing for several inches beyond the tips of the toes and end- ing there in a hook [a). Opposite the under surface of each heel there is a pivot {b) over which passes the perforated end of a transverse bar (c) which can be lengthened or shortened at will, and from the centre of which extension of both Fig. 133.—Extension Apparatus for Coxa Vara. The anterior ends of the foot-pieces are approximated by the india-rubber springs attaclied to the hooks a. The abduc- tion is regulated by the transverse bar ; the limbs can be approximated or separated by passing the pivots b through the different holes in the transverse bar c. These holes are large enough to allow the limb to rotate inwards easily when in the abducted position. Extension is made from the hook in the centre of the transverse bar.