520 EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD ■the region are destroyed or are at least no longer in a state to produce toxins. The opsonic index can also be used to diagnose infections other than tuberculosis. The index of the serum is worked out against cultures of the organisms which experience shows are probably concerned, and that with which the serum deviates most from the normal figure is found. Or a series of indices may be taken before and after massage or exertion of the affected part of the body, cultures of all the likely bacteria being used. It is undoubtedly possible to diagnose the causative organism in this way, but the labour is great. Further—and this is a point which must be constantly borne in mind in interpreting the results of opsonic determinations—the process is a most difficult one, and requires much patience and a great amount of technical skill for its successful performance. For this reason opsonic methods should only be used when the diagnosis cannot be made otherwise, and it is of vital importance that the nature of the disease should be recognised at once. In children (up to the age of fourteen years) the cuti-reaction or von Pirquet's reaction, is in every way preferable, whilst in adults there are few cases in which the subcutaneous injection of old tuberculin will not give results which are much more certain and which are obtained more quickly, and with a minimum amount of risk. TUBERCULIN IN DIAGNOSIS. Tuberculin, after a long period of disuse (in this country at least) has recently rapidly gained favour both as a diagnostic and as a thera- peutic agent. This is largely owing to a fuller knowledge of the substance and its action, and partly also to the discovery of new methods in which it can be employed. It is now realised that, given proper care, tuber- culin can be used in diagnosis without danger, and yields results which are, in many cases, absolutely accurate. In children the most useful diagnostic method is that based on the fact (discovered by von Pirquet) that the application of old tuberculin to the skin of tuberculous patients causes a local inflammatory reaction which may go on to vesiculation ; whereas in normal or non-tuberculous, persons it has no such action. This is called the cuti-reaction or von Pirquet's reaction. It is carried out much in the same way as an ordinary calf-lyinph vaccination, old tubercuhn, preferably undiluted, being used instead of the lymph. An area about a quarter of an inch in diameter is lightly scarified by any suitable instrument, which should not be too sharp : the object is to remove the surface epithelium down to the corium, but not to draw blood. A drop or two of old tuberculin is rubbed well into this area and allowed to soak in. It is important that it should not be rubbed off before this has happened, and it is a good