DRUGS INJECTED INTO THE TISSUES 487 the lower extremities (especially when the bones are fractured), which are likely to last for upwards of half-an-hour in adult males of the phlegmatic or robust type. The muscular relaxation is superior to that obtained with ether, etc. (3) When the physical condition of the patient contra- indicates the employment of a general anaesthetic, e.g. severe pulmonary and cardiac disease, etc. (4) In elderly people with degenerate arteries, e.g. diabetic gangrene. On the other hand, I am doubtful whether one is justified in urging the adoption of this plan upon women (at any rate not in operations above the knee), children, the highly neurotic, or for trivial operations. It is one of the advantages of this method that but little preparation pf the patient is called for. In these as in other cases it is, perhaps, better that the patient should have a few days' rest prior to the operation, but there is not the same urgency as regards the limitation of the diet. • 3 Fig. 220. -SvRiNGE AND NEEDLES FOR SpiNAL An/Esthesia. A, HoUow needle with solid stillette; B, Syringe; C, HoUovv stillette. Apparatus and Procedure.—My own experience is almost entirely limited to stovaine prepared after Barker's formula (stovaine 0'05 gm., glucose 0'05 gm. to water i c.c), supplied by Billon of Paris in capsules containing 2 c.c. of the sterihsed solution. A special syringe is required of at least 2 c.c. capacity, and capable of prolonged boihng. The needle should be fairly stout and about 8| cm. long, and kept well sharpened; it should be fitted with a solid stillette, and it is, perhaps, of advantage to have in addition a hollow stillette, which can be fitted to the syringe and thrust through and project just beyond the tip of the puncture needle when the latter is in situ (Fig. 220). The procedure is as follows : The hands of the anjesthetist are thoroughly disinfected, and the syringe, etc., well boiled. Stovaine is said to be absolutely neutralised by the faintest trace of alkali, so soda must not be used in boiling the instruments, and all soap must be com- pletely rinsed off the hands. The hollow stillette is fitted to the syringe, and the tip of a capsule being broken off the whole of its contents are