TALIPES EQUINO-VARUS 345 PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES—The condition may be con- genital or acquired. Tlie acquired form may be due to infantile paralysis ; to some spastic condition of the muscles, as in spastic paraplegia or hysteria ; to injuries, such as dislocations or fractures about the ankle joint ; to diseases of that articulation ; or to cicatricial contraction in its neighbourhood. In the congenital form there is not only tightness of certain tendons, but also alterations in the other structures of the foot, particularly the ligaments and bones. The most marked change in the bones occurs at the junction of the neck with the body of the astragalus, the normal angle of which is profoundly altered ; according to Parker, instead of being about 38° as in the normal foetal astragalus, it may reach as much as 50°. Under normal conditions the obliquity of the neck of the astragalus diminishes as the child grows, so that the angle of inward deflection of the neck is a little over 10° in the adult ; on the other hand, in equino-varus in the adult, it may still remain at about 50°. It is evident that the shape of the anterior part of the foot must be seriously altered by such a marked increase in this angle, and that there is a distinct obstacle to the reduction of the deformity in the osseous system itself. As the result of the equinus position there is a further change in the astragalus. The greater part of the upper articular surface of the bone is uncovered, and the alterations described in speaking of talipes equinus occur as the result (see p. 320) ; at the same time, the portion which articulates with the tibio-fibular arch is narrower than it ought to be, and thus a certain amount of lateral displacement is allowed. As time goes on, changes also occur in the other tarsal bones, particularly the cuboid and scaphoid, but, although these may give rise to an additional obstacle to the reduction of the deformity, their influence is not nearly so great as that of the deformity in the astragalus. In advanced cases there is also a marked alteration in the bones of the leg, the ankle being rotated inwards as a whole, so that the external malleolus lies on a plane anterior to that of the internal, this condition being the opposite of the normal. These extreme changes are usually only reached, however, when the patient is allowed to attain adult life before an attempt is made to restore the foot to its proper position. Besides the alterations in the bones there are also certain changes in the ligaments of the tarsus ; those on the dorsum and the outer surface of the foot become elongated, while those on the inner side are shortened and thickened. According to Parker the most important changes take place in the ligaments around the astragalo-scaphoid joint, in the anterior portion of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint, and in the inferior calcaneo-astragaloid ligaments. In the early stages of the deformity these ligaments interfere more seriously with its reduction than does the altered shape of the neck of the astragalus itself, for in infants in whom the bones are cartilaginous, it is comparatively easy to bend