TUMOURS OF THE CELLULAR TYPE 243 Radium is useful, when sufficient is available, in some superficial forms of epithelioma that cannot be removed sufficiently widely. It is chiefly used at the present time in connection with rodent ulcer (see p. 249), for which it is very effectual. For true epithelioma it should not be used as a substitute for excision. Endotheliomata.—This term includes a large group of tumours which are very diverse clinically, some being highly malignant, while others are to all intents and purposes innocent. They grow from the endothelial lining of blood-vessels, from the lining of the perivascular lymphatic spaces, from the endothelium of the tissue lymph-spaces and lymph-vessels, and from the surface of the serous membranes. Chnically they do not present any special characteristics and in practice can be treated in accordance with the clinical signs ; that is to say, those tumours which exhibit the characteristics of malignant disease should be treated as malignant, while those which resemble simple innocent tumours sliould be treated as innocent. TUMOURS OF THE CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TYPE. These are of two kinds—viz. those in wliich the connective tissue is embryonic in character—e.g. sarcomata and myxomata; and those in which the connective tissue is more fully formed—e.g. fibromata and lipomata. MALIGNANT FORMS.—-The Sarcomata form fleshy tumours composed of embryonic connective tissue. They are rounded and nodular and generally have a spurious capsule, which is composed of sarcomatous tissue and must be looked upon as an integral part of the growth itself. They vary in malignancy, but all possess to some extent a decidedly malig- nant character. They may occur wherever there is connective tissue, and are most frequently met with in the bones, fasciae, muscles, skin, breast, testicle, uterus, kidney, parotid, and nerves. The cells vary in character, and the sarcomata are therefore subdivided into a number of varieties according to the general character of the cells composing them. In addition to the cells there is a certain amount of intercellular substance which varies in degree and stage of organisation with the class to which the tumour belongs. The consistence and appearance of the tumour depends to a great extent on the amount of intercellular substance present. These growths are usually very vascular and are especially rich in capillaries and veins. They may undergo various degenerations ; they compress and destroy neighbouring parts, surround vessels and nerves, and may lead to ulceration of the skin, either after involving it or, more commonly, by causing sloughing from pressure and then fungating through the opening thus formed. They give rise to secondary tumoui"s around the primary one, or spread through the medium of the circulation. The secondary internal timiours occur most commonly in the lungs and the R 2