ULCERATION 57 described above, cyanide gauze wrung out of i in 4000 sublimate solution is applied, with salicylic wool outside it. When the grafts have been made to adhere by sponge pressure, a very useful dressing is plain gauze sterilised by boiling and then smeared with vaseline sterilised by heat. The limb should be placed upon a splint, or so fixed that movement cannot occur. Some surgeons prefer perforated silver foil to the protective. There is no need to cut this in strips as the perforations allow discharges to escape ; it has also the advantage of being readily sterilised by boiling, but is not quite so pliable as the protective is. Thin sheet-rubber, which can be perforated with holes if desired, is also used. An excellent protective tissue, apparently composed of cel- lulose, has been introduced recently. This has the ad- vantage that it can be boiled without deterioration, and, as it is transparent, the grafts can l^e ins])ected with- out disturbance. The place from which the grafts have been taken may be dressed with dilute boric ointment, which need not be disturbed for ten days. At the end of that time the whole surface will usually be healed, unless the razor has somewhere gone deeper than is necessary. If healing be not quite complete, the boric ointment may be re-applied. Changing- the First Dress- ing.—The dressing should be left on the grafted surface for about five days ; in some cases it may even be left for a week. If the wound be aseptic, no suppuration or decomposition takes place beneath it. Before being removed, the dressing should be thoroughly soaked with a i in 2000 sublimate solution, for the protective or the dressing may stick at the edge and adhere to a graft, which may thus be peeled off unless great care be taken. The parts should be gently cleansed \vith the same solution, and a dressing similar to that put on originally should be employed for about another week. At the end of that time the grafts are fairly firmly adherent, and then the half-strength boric ointment is the best apphcation. Fig. 20.—Thiersch's Method of Skin-grafting. Applying the protective. The grafts (indicated by the dotted line) are covered with overlapping strips of protective tissue.