172 WOUNDS to contract does not cease when healing is complete ; a young scar will go on contracting for three or four months at least. Hence, when the skin over a joint is involved, the use of a splint must be continued for at least that length of time after the wound has healed. It may not be advisable for the patient to wear the splint night and day for the whole time, as a certain amount of movement of the joint must be allowed in order to keep up its mobility and the nutrition of the muscles about it, but the splint should be constantly used for two or three months, and then it may be worn during the night only for another period of about three months. Massage and passive movements to ensure proper mobility in the neighbouring joints, and to restore tone to the muscles, are valuable auxiliaries in stretching the scar. POISONED WOUNDS. VARIETIES.—In speaking of poisoned wounds, reference is usually made only to those following post-mortem examinations, dissections, or operations, especially upon parts containing foul pus. We shall restrict the term here to these conditions. The most common variety is the post-mortem wound, and there are three distinct varieties of infection which may arise in this connection. Lupiis Anatoniicus.—This is the mildest form and is also known as the anatomical wart. It consists of warty growths which appear on the fingers of pathologists and post-mortem porters, and which are really tuberculous in nature. The soft warts are often rebellious to treatment, and in a certain number of cases they give rise to disease elsewhere—for example, tuberculous glands in the axilla or above the elbow, infection of neighbouring joints or sheaths of tendons (tuberculous synovitis, or teno-synovitis), lung disease, etc. Hence it is important to recognise and remove the warts as soon as possible. Treatment.—The best treatment is to excise the growth, going wide of it in all directions; the result is quite satisfactory provided that the wart be small, as a skin-graft can be applied to the raw surface, and subsequent contraction avoided. Even when the warty growth is extensive, it can best be got rid of in this way ; should the tendons be exposed in the dissection, loss of movement need not be feared if the whole raw surface be covered with skin-grafts. Should the size or situation of the diseased area prevent excision, the warty material may be scraped away with a sharp spoon under a general anesthetic. After the bleeding has been arrested, the surface should be vigorously rubbed over with nitric acid, which should be allowed to act for ten minutes, when a solution containing half an ounce of carbonate of soda to a tumblerful of water is poured over the sore to neutralise the acid ; vigorous effervescence occurs from the formation of carbonic