DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES 279 bone be removed, the toe can be straightened without any tension, and there is no need to divide ligaments or tendons in the first instance. This gives the patient a movable joint which has little tendency to become flexed again ; the result is much better than that of excision of both the articular surfaces. The operation is done as follows. An incision is made along the dorsal surface of the toe parallel to and a little to one side of the extensor tendon ; it should commence an inch above the first interphalangeal joint and run down well beyond it. The incision is carried directly down to the bone, and the soft structures are separated from the end of the first phalanx by a periosteum detacher and a few strokes of the knife. The lateral ligaments are then divided and the head of the bone is made to project into the wound and is nipped off by cutting pliers. The bone is generally divided about a quarter of an inch above the articular surface, but enough must be removed to allow the toe to be brought straight without any tension. After the bleeding has been arrested, the corn over the first interphalangeal joint is excised, the wound united by fine sutures, and a gauze dressing applied. The plantar splint referred to above (see p. 277) is then applied, with an extra amount of padding beneath the tip of the toe, to ensure the latter being kept straight when the bandage is applied. When hallux valgus is present, suitable treatment for that condition (see p. 281) must be adopted simultaneously. When the wound has healed, the toe and the front part of the foot should be put up in a sihcate bandage, and the patient allowed to walk. The bandage can be dispensed with in about seven weeks and the patient regarded as well. After-treatment.—Special attention must be paid to the boots, which should not be too short, as otherwise the end of the toe will be pressed upon and flexion will recur. As there will often be hallux valgus co-existing, the remarks made with reference to boots for hallux valgus (see p. 281) apply here also. The socks should be furnished with a separate compartment for the great toe. HALLUX VALGUS AND BUNION. By the term Hallux Valgus is understood a condition in which there is adduction of the great toe. As a consequence of this adduction, the inner side of the head of the first metatarsal bone becomes unduly exposed and consequently is subjected to direct pressure against the boot ; in- flammation therefore takes place in the exposed bone and the periosteum over it, and considerable thickening of these structures occurs. A bursa is subsequently developed in the subcutaneous tissues over the enlarged bone, a condition commonly known as a bunion ; by an inflamed bunion is meant one in which the bursa has become inflamed. The inflammatory