ADMINISTRATION OF MIXTURES 463 added in some way to the safety of the patient, and the comfort of all concerned. The inhaler which, at the present moment, is most in vogue, is that known ^ as the Vernon-Harcourt Inhaler, figured and described in Fig. 207. Considerable practice with this machine is required before its intricacies are mastered. Its best results, however, are very satisfactory, and it is said to be useful more particularly for long cases in the old and feeble, in whom, too, the tendency to shock may be still further diminislied by passing a stream of oxygen through the apparatus. Those who pro- pose to give tliis inhaler a trial should be warned, that the period of induction is often prolonged to ten or fifteen minutes; the indicated percentages cannot be relied upon, as they vary considerably with the temperature of the room, the angle which the chloroform bottle assumes, its steadi- ness, the accuracy of the various valves, and probably with the force of the re- spirations. As, too, the ansesthesia is very light, the patient must be watched with more than the usual vigilance in order to avoid his coming round in the middle of the operation. Other forms of apparatus have been devised in which known volumes of air are made to take up measured quantities of chloroform, the patient breathing the mixture out of a storage bag. These, however, are at present too cumbersome for clinical use. ADMINISTRATION OF MIXTURES (A.C.E. Etc.). From the point of view of ansesthetic strength, the mixtures occupy a position intermediate between ether and chloroform. Of such mixtures there may, of course, be an infinite variety, according to the relative pro- portion of the constituents, but to certain stock mixtures definite names have been attached ; thus, a combination of one part of chloroform to three of ether is known as the 'Vienna mixture,' whUe ' Billroth's mixture' consists of three parts of chloroform, one of ether, and one of absolute alcohol. In this country, however, 'the A.C.E. mixture,' or, as it is often called, ' the mixture,' is the term by which is usually indicated a fluid composed of absolute alcohol spec. grav. 0795 one part Fig. 207.—Vernon - Harcourt In- haler. A, Chloroform bottle. B, In- spiratory valve for chloroform. C, Inspiratory valve for air. D, Regulator. The proportion of vapour varies in accordance with the proximity of the pointer to the chloroform bottle. Th-; course of the vapour is indicated. E, facepicce and expiratory valve.