ACUTE SEPTICEMIA 189 as to keep the kidneys active ; the bowels should be kept open with mild saline aperients such as Seidlitz powders or drachm doses of sulphate of magnesia or effervescing sulphate of soda, combined with enemata. ACUTE SEPTICEMIA. This condition is much more serious than the one just described. Like it, acute septicaemia is also due to the pyogenic organisms, but the exact pathology is not very clear. It is sufficient for our purpose to point out that the affection is essentially one of poisoning by chemical products. The organisms themselves are not met with free in the blood in any large numbers, and they probably establish themselves either in the wound or in some of the internal organs, whence they pour septic products into the blood. Although the condition resembles that of septic intoxication in being due to chemical poisoning, it differs from it both by being caused exclusively by parasitic organisms, and by the fact that these latter have gained a footing either in the living tissues of the wound or in the internal organs. Acute septictemia follows traumatic fever when the latter does not end favourably. SYMPTOMS.—These usually begin before the traumatic fever has subsided. The temperature, which has begun to fall, rises again to 103° or 104° F. and remains high, but sho^^•s slight morning remissions of about a degree. Rigors are rare, but the patient feels ill and at first presents all the signs of sthenic inflammatory fever; in bad cases he soon passes into the typhoid state. Vomiting is not uncommon, and some- times diarrhoea is present, though more commonly there is constipation. The urine frequently contains albumin, the wound is usually swollen and painful, and the discharge from it is diminished or even arrested completely. The disease is very fatal ; only a small number of those attacked recover. Treatment.—This is mainly directed to the symptoms; but when examination of the discharges from the wound shows the presence of the streptococcus pyogenes, antistreptococcic serum should be injected (see p. 173). Vaccines are often employed, but their use is not devoid of danger (see Appendix). Usually, however, there is nothing to be done but to employ constitutional treatment, in the hope that the tissues may conquer in the fight against the organisms. A generous diet should be given, and free stimulation will be necessary as soon as the pulse begins to fail. If the temperature remains over 103° F., tepid sponging or some of the other antipyretic measures recommended on p. 194 should be adopted. Ten grains of quinine should be given every four hours for twenty-four or forty-eight hours even in spite of symptoms of cinchonism. The object is to get a bactericidal effect; this can only be done by practically poisoning the