WOUNDS go heating cannot be obtained, a coal fire in an open grate should be employed. When ether is being used there is a small additional risk of fire. The temperature of the theatre should never be lower than 65° F. during an operation, but for severe cases, especially abdominal sections when a considerable amount of shock is expected, the temperature should be even higher; indeed, a temperature of 75° to 80° is often desirable. The effect of temperature upon shock is well known, but it is not as widely appre- ciated as it deserves to be. Under an anaesthetic the heat regulating mechanism is completely in abeyance, and a patient exposed to cold loses heat much as he would do after death. The walls of the theatre should be of some easily washable material, and although a large number of cements, tilings and other wall-coverings have been introduced, there is perhaps no substance more suitable for covering the walls of an operating theatre than a good enamel paint which can be renewed cheaply and has neither cracks nor joints. The floor must be of some substance impervious to wet; and that form of mosaic known as ' terrazzo' forms one of the best materials. At the junction of the walls with each other, and with the floor and ceiling, there must be no angles which would be liable to harbour dust and dirt and make the cleaning of the theatre difficult; all angles, therefore, should be carefully rounded off. Where pipes ran along the theatre walls, they must be fixed far enough away from the wall to allow thorough cleaning behind them ; a better plan is to keep all pipes out of the operating theatre proper. In a well-constructed theatre it should be possible to play a hose over the whole of it without spoiling any of its fittings. The floor should slope slightly down to one side or to one corner, where an open gully should conduct off the waste water into the open air. If possible, all instrument cases, sterihsers, and other fixtures should be kept outside the theatre itself in order to facilitate the cleaning of the latter. The fixtures in the operating theatre should be reduced to a minimum, nothing bej^ond the instruments and apparatus in actual use being in the theatre during an operation. During an operation people must not come in and out. All doors and windows should be kept closed, and the air supplied to the theatre should be passed or drawn through a thick mass of cotton wool or some other form of efficient filter. Connected with an operating theatre of this kind there should be a series of rooms in which the various preparations connected with the operation can be carried on: for instance, a room in which the surgeon can wash his hands, an instrument and a splint room, a room for the sterilising of dressings and instruments, and an anaesthetising room are all of great importance. In addition, a recovery room is extremely valuable for the detention of patients after severe operations. This obviates any risk of exposure during the passage of the patient from the theatre to the ward.