3i8 DEFORMITIES The reasons for preferring this splint to plaster of Paris are given on p. 348. It is also advisable to employ daily massage designed to maintain the power of the muscles, which are to some extent interfered with while the limb is on the splint. Benefit may be obtained from the galvanic current when the muscular action is feeble. It should be applied daily, for about ten minutes at a time, to the muscles both at the back and in front of the limb. When the child is old enough to walk, a Scarpa's shoe (see Fig. 117) may be employed ; and, in addition, exercises, such as tiptoe exercises, rising on the outside of the foot, etc., varying according to the nature of the deformity, should be practised. More detailed information upon these points is given in connection with the treatment of the individual forms of club-foot. In the second group of eases there are structures which definitely resist re-position and means must be taken to overcome them. This is best done by the use of a tenotomy knife. The methods of performing tenotomy in various situations are referred to in detail in connection with the individual forms of club-foot. The resisting structures are divided freely, and the foot' is put up on a suitable splint in the corrected position, which is exchanged later on for one of over-correction. Whether com- plete correction should be carried out at once, or should be delayed for a few days, depends upon the circumstances of the case. When the contraction is extreme, immediate and complete correction is sometimes inadvisable, especially when the tendo AchiUis is affected, for if immediate correction be made, there may be either no union at all or else that which occurs may be long, imperfect, and weak, and may lead to a deformity of the opposite kind. In most of the other tendons, however, and in all cases in which the contraction is not very great, there is a con- siderable advantage in putting up the foot in the corrected position immediately and substituting a position of over-correction for this in a few days. After union between the divided ends has taken place, as it usually does in two to three weeks, careful manipulations, massage, electricity, and the application of apparatus should be begun. When the patient is old enough to walk, a suitable mechanical arrangement permitting the use of the joints within normal limits should be combined with the other forms of treatment. These are referred to in detail in connection with the individual forms of the deformity. The plan of rectifying the deformity in this group of cases without any cutting operation has been strongly advocated by some surgeons. The foot is forcibly wrenched and bent against a firm support, until the parts are so stretched that the deformity is over-corrected. The foot is then put up in plaster of Paris or on a suitable splint. Although some amount of forcible stretching and wrenching may be of consider- able advantage in these cases, we prefer the use of the tenotomy knife as