462 ANESTHETICS a time altogether. The treatment to be adopted when the breathing does stop will be described presently (see p. 473). Pure chloroform, unmixed with ether, should not, theoretically, give rise to noisy or stertorous respirations, and certainly noisy breathing which cannot be rectified by slight changes in the position of the head, pushing forward the base of the tongue, by pressure upon the angles of the inferior maxilla or lifting the chin upwards, must not be allowed. There is practically no increase in the flow of mucus, etc. The essential characteristic of chloroform anaesthesia is the depression. Thus, paralysis of the respiratory centre is probably the most usual cause of death in fatal cases, though cardiac failure is not unknown. This tendency to respiratory failure sets in very early, and makes it more than usually imperative that the respiration should be most carefully watched, at the same time as, but even more vigilantly than the circulation. It is probable that respiratory failure is usually associated with cardiac failure, though not always pari passu. As Lord Lister has pointed out,i the breathing may become obstructed by the failing together of the relaxed soft tissues about the air passages, and this condition has an important bearing upon the treatment, as will subsequently be explained (seep. 473). On an average, between six and eight minutes is a fair time to allow for inducing anaesthesia with chloroform by the above method. It is said by some, that the quantity of chloroform used should be at about the rate of 3j for every ten minutes of anaesthesia, but such estimates are unreliable, as it is obvious that the amount must vary enormously in accordance with such opposite conditions as the age of the patient, his state of health, the heat of the weather, the thickness of the towel, etc. The special after-effeets of chloroform differ in degree rather than in kind from those observed as a consequence of the use of ether. The vomiting may not be so severe, but it often does not set in until consciousness is more or less completely restored, and therefore the feeling of wretchedness is prolonged. Bronchitis and other lung affec- tions are rare sequelae to chloroform inhalation, nor is delirium at all frequent. For a more detailed account of after-treatment, see p. 477. Dosimetrie Methods.—The last few years have seen a revival of the practice of administering chloroform by means of inhalers, furnished with close fitting face-pieces and valves, with the object of regulating the strength of vapour supplied. The construction of modern inhalers is based upon the view, that anaesthesia can be induced and maintained with much smaller quantities of chloroform than was at one time thought possible ; that these small percentages are capable of accurate measurement and regulation, and that a knowledge of these percentages ^ Holmes, System of Surgery, vol. iii.