357 TALIPES EOUINO-VARUS the tendo Achillis require division, as it generally does, this is better done after an interval of six or eight weeks, for reasons already mentioned (see p. 350). When the wound has healed, the foot may be put up in plaster of Paris, and the after-treatment requires careful attention. In these bad cases there is a strong tendency for the deformity to recur, and this is greatly aided by the contraction of the large scar left on the inner side of the foot ; care must be taken therefore to counteract this tendency. The safest way to prevent recurrence is to over-correct the deformity so fully, by free incision of the astragalo-scaphoid articulation, that the foot is actually in a condition of slight valgus. Locomotion then becomes a valuable aid in preventing any recurrence of the varus. The treatment of these cases after the wound has healed is similar to that for those in which a less severe operation has been done. In order to mitigate the severity of this operation, it has been done subcutaneously by introducing the knife l:)etween the skin and the deeper parts, and then cutting everything right down to the bone. The objec- tion to this is that the skin itself is always markedly shortened, and will not stretch ; sloughing therefore is likely to occur from the pressure of the extravasated blood beneath tlie skin, which is rendered unduly tense both by it and by the pressure brought to bear when the foot is forcibly straightened. Phelps's operation has been very successful in many cases, although it is a somewhat drastic one. The operation is more suitable for young children in whom the bones are still soft, and in whom the soft parts have con- tracted to such an extent that the deformity cannot be remedied by mere subcutaneous division. It is not likely to be so successful in adults, or in those in whom the bone changes are extensive and permanent. It has little chance of success in any case unless the incision and wi"enching are so free that the foot afterwards is actually in a position of valgus rather than varus. It is neglect of this precaution that has led to so many unsuccessful results. The operation required for the most severe cases, such, for in- stance, as those where the patient has been allowed to grow up with the deformity uncorrected, will necessarily be more radical, and must involve resection of some portion of the tarsus. Whether or not operative interference should be undertaken will depend very much on the functional condition of the foot ; some of these patients become so accustomed to use the limb with the foot in the deformed position that thev can walk well, and hence it is inadvisable to suggest operation to them, considering the severity of the operation, and the more or less imperfect result which maj' follow it. In other instances, however, there is so much pain and difficulty in walking from the formation of burste on the outer side and dorsum of the foot, which are constantly liable to repeated attacks of inflammation, that the patient urgently demands relief by operation, which is then fully justified.