49 ULCERATION The above methods of applying pressure are only continued, in the case of patients who can afford the time to lie up, until the exudation has become absorbed. If continued longer, they interfere with the nutrition of the hmb. Another method of getting rid of the exudation accompanying a callous ulcer is the application of blisters. When a blister is applied to the skin, more blood is sent to the part and the lymph flow is increased ; if a blister be applied around a callous ulcer (the limb meanwhile bemg kept at rest in the elevated position), it is remarkable how quickly the callous condition disappears, and the edges become soft and in a condition favourable for healing. The essential point in employing a blister in the treatment of an ulcer is that it should not be applied directly over the raw surface, other- wise the cantharides is apt to be absorbed, and may lead to serious irritation of the kidneys. This must be borne in mind in cases of callous ulcer especially, for many of the patients suffering from this affection are the subjects of Bright's disease. Hence, the blister should be raised round the margin of the ulcer only ; the surface of the ulcer should not be allowed to come into contact with the cantharides. For the method of application of blisters, see p. 19. Usually one blister will suffice, and it will be found that, by the time the blistered surface has healed, the callous condition of the ulcer has disappeared, and its edges are in a satisfactory condition. Avoidance of Irritation—Another important point in the treat- ment of all ulcers is to get rid of anything that irritates the surface of the sore. The irritation may be mechanical, such as that caused by dressings applied directly to the surface of the sore, or chemical, such as unsuitable lotions or decomposing discharges ; the chemical causes are the more common. In order to avoid mechanical iryitation, the dressing, whether it be gauze or boric lint, should not be applied directly to the surface of the sore, but oiled silk protective or an antiseptic ointment should be interposed. A most important point is the avoidance of chemical irritation either from lotions or decomposing discharges. The lotions used should be antiseptic, but irritating antiseptics, such as strong carbolic acid, should not be selected. Disinfection of the Ulcer.—The presence of decomposing discharge on the surface of an ulcer interferes materially with the healing process, and it is therefore most important to remedy, as far as possible, the septic condition of the sore at the commencement of the treatment. In order to do this, we recommend the following method of procedure. In the first place, the skin should be disinfected for a considerable area around the ulcer. Disinfecting the surface of the ulcer alone and leaving the sldn septic simply means that the surface will again become infected in a few days. Therefore the skin should be thoroughly