41 ULCERATION the vitality of the part, such as severe and long-continued exposure to cold ; when not severe enough to produce gangrene, this may lead to rapid ulceration. A very frequent cause of ulceration is difficiiliy in the contraction of the sore. When a wound heals by granulation, an important element in the healing process is the diminution in the size of the sore from the contraction of the newly formed fibrous tissue ; when this contraction cannot occur, a time will come when healing will cease and ulceration will take place, especially if the sore be large. The constant unsuccessful efforts of the new fibrous tissue to contract seem to irritate the part and arrest the healing. This inability to contract may result from the great size of the sore, from its adhesion to tissues, such as a bone or a dense fascia, which do not permit of contraction, or from induration of the margin of the sore, as in a callous ulcer. Not only does the difficulty in contraction lead to ulceration per se, but the new tissue, in contracting, compresses the blood-vessels going to the part, and so diminishes the blood-supply. Again, irritation of a sore may lead to ulceration instead of healing, either mechanically, as by pressure, by friction of the dressings, etc., or chemically, as by irritation due either to the lotions used in the treatment, (for example, carbolic acid), or to decomposing secretions. When the discharge from a sore decomposes, irritating substances are formed and may lead to extensive ulceration, especially if they do not escape readily. This is most often the case when the discharge dries up and forms crusts ; under these crusts this decomposing, irritating secretion accumulates, and ulceration occurs instead of healing. Hence in treating an ulcer or a septic granulating wound it is of great importance not to permit the formation of crusts or scabs. Another local cause which leads to ulceration is movement. When a sore is situated over a muscle, or over a fascia which is in frequent movement, especially if it be adherent to either, ulceration is more likely to occur than in one situated elsewhere. Ulceration may also be set up by accidental contaminaiion of the wound. A wound which is healing will begin to ulcerate if virulent pyogenic organisms attack it ; they lead to the formation of an inflam- matory ulcer. Among other specific infections of sores may be mentioned diphtheria and phagedena, the latter of which will be dealt with more fully in connection with gangrene. Ulcers also occur in parts where the nervous supply is imperfect—for example, after paralysis or neuritis. Several factors may come into play in these cases. In the first place, if a limb be insensitive to pain, exposure to pressure is not noticed or is tolerated, and severe ulcers may be pro- duced before the patient is aware that anything is wrong. In these cases the ulcer heals readily under appropriate treatment. On the other hand, in lesions of the spinal cord, as in infantile paralysis, or in