222 SYPHILIS Another method of introducing mercury into the system through the skin is by fumigation, the drug employed being calomel; it is best performed at bedtime. About thirty grains of calomel are placed in a small metal dish, which is surrounded by another containing a little boiling water, and the whole is placed over a spirit-lamp. This vaporising apparatus is put under the seat of a cane chair, upon which the patient divested of his clothes, sits surrounded b}^ a blanket reaching to the floor, and tucked tightly round the neck so as to prevent the escape of the calomel vapour. It takes about twenty minutes for the calomel to be volatilised, and the patient sits meanwhile in a profuse perspira- tion, so that the drug is readily absorbed through the skin. After the sitting, the patient is wrapped in a blanket and goes to bed. Two baths a week generally suffice, especially if the patient be weakly, but one may be given every night should it be necessary to get him rapidly under the influence of mercury. This method is useful for obstinate skin affections, but otherwise it is seldom employed ; the smell of the vaporis- ing calomel is very penetrating and offensive. The administration of mercury by intra-nmscular injections has been used largely of recent years. The numerous preparations of mercury employed fall into two classes—namely, (a) Soluble salts of mercury ; of these we recommend the succinarnide of mercury in doses of one-fifth or two-fifths of a grain two or three times a week, ip) Insoluble mercurial preparations; these may contain either metallic mercury or calomel, and are best bought ready prepared, as their manufacture requires minute sub- division of the active ingredient. Perhaps the best formula is Lambkin's, usually spoken of as ' mercurial cream.' Metallic mercury . . . gr. j Creo-camph .... grs. ij Palmitin basis . . . . ad ITI^ x ' Creo-camph ' is a preparation of creosote and camphoric acid, and is added to prevent the pain which otherwise comes on three or four days after the injection. The above amount constitutes a dose. The preparations containing metallic mercury are preferable to those containing calomel, as the latter cause severe pain at the site of injection and give rise to more risk of local sepsis. Intra-muscular injections are of great service when it is required to obtain the physiological effects of mercury very rapidly, or when the administration of mercury by the mouth leads to gastro-intestinal irrita- tion. It possesses the further advantage that the patient is certain of absorbing the given dose of mercury, which does not always happen when it is given in other ways, since the patient may either not take it at all or may not absorb it when taken. The soluble salts allow more accurate dosage, but the injections require to be made frequently and are often painful. The insoluble preparations yield admirable results and