DEFORMITIES 300 inwards and downwards from the scaphoid, and in bad cases it may only arti- culate with the latter at the extreme outer part of the head; in consequence the cartilage disappears from the portion of the bone that is thus exposed, and the head forms a marked prominence beneath the skin on the inner border of the foot. The arch of the foot diminishes, until finally the sole is applied flat to the ground. In well-marked cases the anterior part of the foot becomes abducted, and in very severe ones the inner border of the foot may be actually convex and the outer concave, so that the patient walks more on the inner side of the foot than on the outer, although not to the same degree as in cases of true valgus. In very severe cases the peronei tendons may be chslocated from their groove and lie upon or anterior to the external malleolus. In cases of long standing, marked changes also occur in the bones ; the uncovered portion of the head of the astragalus becomes enlarged, so that it cannot be replaced in position. Sometimes actual bony anchylosis may take place. There may be effusion into the sheaths of the tendons behind the malleoli, SYMPTOMS.—As flat foot develops, pain is always present although it varies in situation and degree. In the acute form of the disease, the pain is usually so severe that the patient is unable to walk, and it is chiefly felt in the sole beneath the head of the astragalus, where there is also marked tenderness on pressure. This is due to the stretching of the hgaments about the mid-tarsal joint. Pain in the calf from stretching of the muscles is often an early symptom in the chronic cases. In more advanced cases pain is also experienced along the outer side of the meta- tarsus and about the external malleolus. The pain in the latter situation is often due to actual pressure of the os calcis against the tip of the fibula. The affection is generally bilateral, but may be unilateral only; it is not at all uncommon for patients to complain of pain on one side only. Many persons with an absolutely fiat foot suffer from no symptoms whatever, while others have very severe symptoms when to all appear- ance the arch is well developed. TREATMENT—For the purposes of treatment flat foot may be divided into five stages. (1) A patient begins, comparatively suddenly, to complain of pain on standing, referred to the centre of the sole. On examination there is tenderness on upward pressure in the sole, and some flattening of the arch of the instep. This is the ' acute flat foot' usually associated with an inflammatory condition of the ligaments supporting the head of the astragalus and in it there is no difficulty in bringing the foot into position and restoring the arch ; no bony deformity has yet taken place, nor are there any material changes in the ligaments. (2) Chronic cases characterised by slight pain, in which the arch can be restored readily by manipulation.