292 DEFORMITIES swept flatwise between the skin and the fascia so as to free the adherent portions. The operation should be carried out with the greatest thorough- ness, and half to three-quarters of an hour may be consumed in a systeijiatic endeavour to find and divide all the tight bands of fascia present. It is useless to attempt to cure the affection by simply dividing the fascia in one or two spots. After aU the tense fascial bands have been divided, the finger is extended fully and the palm kneaded, so as to rupture any fibres that may have escaped division. In doing this it is often found necessary to re-introduce the tenotomy knife and divide some tight band that had not been noticed previously. A pad of antiseptic gauze is then placed in the palm, and the hand put upon a palmar splint (see Fig. 86) which is padded especially thickly beneath the fingers, so as to produce good extension when the hand is bandaged to it. When the contraction is Fig. 86,—Dupuytren's Contraction. Splint for use immediately after Sub- cutaneous Division of the Fascia. This is made of light metal well padded, and can be bent somewhat should it be difficult to get the finger straight immediately after the operation ; it can then be straightened gradually as the finger stretches. (After Adams.) great and the skin is much thickened, however, the fingers must not be stretched unduly, partly because considerable pain would be caused, and partly because the skin might slough, since its vitality has been interfered with by the operation. In these cases, therefore, it is better to leave the fingers somewhat flexed for the first twenty-four or forty-eight hours, and then to increase the extension gradually by readjusting the splint and increasing the padding, or by fastening the metacarpals to the splint by an elastic bandage, which will gradually press the palm down flat upon the splint, the fingers being separated from it by the padding. In a week or so the fingers should have become rather over-extended. For the first month the splint must be worn night and day; then a dorsal splint may be substituted for it, taking its purchase from the lower part of the forearm, and fastened round the latter with suitable straps. The splint should extend over the inner side of the dorsum of the hand as far down as the knuckles, and from this main piece separate prolongations arise, one for each of the affected fingers. These pro- longations are bent somewhat backwards from the main portion of the