315 CONGENITAL CLUB-FOOT result, for, if the early stages be neglected, the final result is alteration in the bones and the articular surfaces, and shortening of ligaments and tendons, whatever may have been the primary lesion. Simple division of the tendons or ligaments, manipulations, and the use of appar- atus then fail to restore the foot to its proper position, and more severe measures must be employed. GENERAL POINTS IN THE TREATMENT OF CONGENITAL CLUB-FOOT. These cases fall into three distinct groups, (i) Those in which the deformity can be rectified by manipulation alone ; in these cases there are no shortened structures to impede the re-position of the foot, and the deformity in the bones is only slight. (2) Cases of long standing in which there is shortening of the muscles and ligaments, resulting from the long-continued faulty position of the limb ; when these contracted structures have been divided, the foot can be got into position with a little effort, the alterations in the bones not yet being advanced enough to offer any great impediment. (3) The third group consists of cases of very long standing in which the obstacles to reduction are not merely tight muscles, ligaments, and fasciae, but also alterations in the direction and extent of the articular surfaces which have become so pronounced that re-position is impossible without operation. These alterations in the bones are partly changes in their shape and direction, and partly alterations in the articular cartilages. When, as the result of the faulty position of the foot, a portion of the articular cartilage has remained for a long time out of contact with the articular surface of the corresponding bone, fibroid changes occur in it converting it into libro-cartilage ; ultimately the whole of the uncovered portion of the articular surface becomes denuded of cartilage. Thus, the opposed surfaces are no longer covered with articular cartilage even when the bones are in proper position. More- over, there are often alterations in the shape of the bone beneath, so that it is no longer possible to bring the two joint surfaces into proper relation with each other unless some alteration is made in their shape. In severe cases the entire limb may be rotated, and it will be necessary to correct this before locomotion will become normal. It is very important to remember that the patient must not be re- garded as cured as soon as the foot has been got into position, or even after it has been maintained there for some weeks. If treatment be left oft" too soon, a relapse takes place almost at once, and the subsequent condition may become as bad as or even worse than if no treatment had been employed. Hence, it must be impressed on the parents that the