42 INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS lesions of the posterior nerve roots and ganglia, such as locomotor ataxy, the ulcers which form are often very resistant to treatment, although there may be no anaesthesia. It is to this group that the term trophic ulcer should be applied. In many cases there are anaesthesia and loss ol trophic influence. Lastly, ulcers may occur in connection with certain constitutional condi- tions, such as diabetes, scurvy, etc. Diabetes leads to ulceration, partly from the diminished blood-supply due to the endarteritis which so often accompanies it, and partly from the increasedsusceptibility of the tissues to septic infection. Scurvy leads to extravasation of blood into the tissues which interferes with their vitality, and often ends in sloughing of the skin. Signs of Healing.—It is important to recognise when a sore is healing and when it is not. When a portion of tissue, including an area of skin, has been removed and a wound has been left, the '„ m „ ., . a edges of which cannot be ap- *^— b proximated, it will be found "~ ^ after a few days that the wound > has commenced to heal by ^"^^Ikkm^* • granulation. If the process of repair be not hindered either by the occurrence of sepsis or by mechanical irritation, the granulations fill the cavity of Fig. 14.—The Appearances presented by a the WOUud rapidly, SO that a Healing Ulcer. [a) Granulating surface: (b) pink n , t 1 1 t 1 r zone of epithelium ; [c) bluish zone of thiclier epithe- uat Silghtly depressed SUrtaCC IS hum; M whitish zone of desquamating epithelium. iormtd, COVCrcd with bright- red nodules about the size of a millet-seed. These do not bleed when they are lightly touched, but ooze freely if they are roughly handled. From this granulating surface comes a small amount of serous discharge, which, on microscopical examina- tion may be found to contain a few leucocytes, but the fluid does not merit the name of pus. At the edges of the wound the epithelium is found spreading inwards ; at the innermost part, where there is a single layer of epithelial cells covering in the granulations, the presence of the epithelium is indicated merely by a flat pink zone; beyond this, where the epithelium is thicker, there is a distinct bluish line, and outside this again, a zone in which the superficial epithelial cells have already begun to desquamate and, becoming sodden with the dressings and discharge from the wound, form a white line around it. It is the presence of the red hne that indicates that healing is actually taking place. This point can best be made out by drying the surface of the ulcer, when it will be