512 EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD in. The mixtures are returned to the incubator for two hours ; it is an advantage to stir or shake them from time to time. They are then allowed to settle. In a positive reaction the first tube will show no haemolysis, whereas in the second the hemolysis will be complete ; in a negative one each tube will show complete haemolysis, and not infre- quently it happens that there is no haemolysis in either tube. This shows that this method is unavaihng and another process must be used. The results may be given in tabular form thus :— Positive reaction Negative reaction Indeterminate /Serum i part \ ■\Extract 4 parts (•Serum i part 2.< Normal saline C 4 parts , Incubated i hour 1 and r unit emul- sion sheep's corpuscles added No haemolysis Haemolysis No haemolysis Haemolysis Haemolysis No haemolysis Numerous controls ought to be added, e.g. tubes containing 4 units of extract and of normal sahne, but no serum ; the serum from a known syphilitic and a known non-syphilitic person, which ought to react as theory demands. Sheep's corpuscles are not always easy to obtain, and to avoid this difficulty the author of this article uses the following method, based on a process introduced by Tschernagubow, but rather more convenient in detail. The corpuscles used are human ones, well washed by repeated centriiUgalisations (at least three) from normal saline solution. Apart from these and the extract, the only requisite is heated serum from a rabbit which has been injected with human corpuscles and thus contains an antibody to these structures. This serum keeps well, and can be put up in ampoules in quantities sufficient for a number of tests, so as to be always at hand. The earher part of the process is exactly the same as in Fleming's method. After the first incubation i unit of a mixture of i volume of washed human corpuscles and 4 parts of immune serum (previously mixed and allowed to stand for ten minutes, so that the corpuscles may be fully sensitised) is added, and the mixture re- incubated as before. In a positive reaction the complement is absorbed in the first incubation, and there is no haemolysis. In a negative one it is not absorbed, and dissolves the corpuscles, which are sensitised by means of the rabbit serum. The results are the same as those shown on the preceding table, except that there are no indeterminate results, the conditions for haemolysis being always present unless the complement has been absorbed in a positive reaction. This method is extremely simple and appears to give very good results.i 1 For fuller details, see Lancet, September 3, 1910.