70 INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS aseptic. Formerly, amputation was performed if tlie bones were exten- sively injured, even though the large vessels and nerves were intact; but sufficient experience has shown us that a large number of cases of compound fracture can now be safely treated under antiseptic precau- tions, without recourse to amputation. Formerly, also, it was held best to amputate when large portions of the skin were lost, even though both vessels and bones were intact, because violent inflammation and septic absorption often occurred and led to a fatal result; if the patient survived, either the wound did not heal at all, owing to the difficulty of contraction, or if it did, the contraction caused great deformity, and rendered the extremity useless. At the present time, however, these risks can be avoided to a certain extent, and amputation is not always necessary even when extensive areas of skin are lost. In the first place, if asepsis be obtained, it frequently happens that a considerable amount of tissue which would otherwise have died retains its vitality. In the second place, the great contraction which would otherwise result is avoided by the use of skin-grafting when the wound has begun to granu- late (see p. 52), while at the same time wounds can be got to heal which otherwise would not heal at all. In patients who are very old, or much broken down in health, and to whom a long confinement to bed would be injurious, more particularly if they are the subjects of renal disease, amputation, however, is often the safest procedure. When diabetes is present, the cases in which an attempt should be made to save the limb are comparatively few. Gangrene due to Pressure.—Another cause of direct gangrene is continued pressure, and it is very important to remember this when a patient has to be kept in one position for a long time. Under such circumstances, the parts subjected to pressure are apt to die, and this is especially the case with soft parts over bony prominences, such as the sacrum, or those subjected to pressure against the edge of a splint. This is the condition known as bed-sore. The gangrene in these cases is moist. Treatment.—The treatment of bed-sore resolves itself into {a) prophy- laxis, {b) treatment when bed-sore is threatened, and (c) when it is actually present. Prophylaxis.—The essential points in the prophylactic treatment are in the first place to avoid continuous pressure, or to so vary or diffuse it that it shall not tell too long or too injuriously on one part, and, in the second place, to keep the skin dry. The first indication is canied out by frequently altering the position of the patient or the part, or by so arranging matters that the pressure shall not tell on any bony prominence. For instance, the patient may lie on a ring-pillow, the opening in the pillow being opposite the part which is to be relieved of pressure. Another, and in most cases the best, way is to place the patient on a water-pillow or a water-bed, so that the pressure does not remain localised to any one point, but is distributed over a considerable area. When a