DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES 281 stage, when the divergence of the toe and the enlargement of the end of the bone are comparatively slight ; (2) when the condition is well de- veloped, with considerable en- largement of the bone and the formation of a bursa over it ; and (3) when the bursa has sup- purated and a sinus is left. TREATMENT. — In the early stag'e much may be done to render the patient comfort- able and to prevent further development of the deformity by, the use of properly con- structed boots combined with some mechanical arrangement designed to counteract the ad- duction of the great toe. The boots must be long enough, not too narrow, and the inner border of the sole, as far as the extremity of the great toe, must be almost straight. The most suitable boots, on the whole, are those in which the inner border is straight and passes well beyond the tip of the great toe, and of which the outer border is rounded to correspond to the cvuve of the other toes (see Fig. 79). They cannot be said to be comely, but nevertheless they must be worn in these cases. In addition, means must be employed to press the toe into position and to overcome the adduction. In quite early cases a pad of lint may be worn between the first and second toes, but it is apt to press injuriously on the other toes, and does not always attain the desired end. A better plan is to have the socks made with a separate com- partment for the great toe (the so-called ' digitated socks '), to see that a suitable boot is worn, and to have the toe frequently manipulated so as to bring it into a straight line with the inner border of the foot. In most cases, however, it is advisable, for a time at least, to employ some form of apparatus to keep the toe in its proper j^osition ; a common one is what is known as a ' toc-post,' made by fastening a vertical piece of stout leather to the sole of the boot in the interval between the great and the second toes (Fig. 81). The great toe is first brought straight by introducing a small roll of flannel between it and the second toe. The boot is then put on and the great toe slips into its proper position, the Fig. 80.—Diagram showing the Relationship of THE Impression of the Foot to the lines which BOUND its outline.—A is a normal foot. B, a mild degree of hallux valgus. The outline in A with the corners rounded oii, represents the proper outline fur a boot. B similarly treated illustrates the faulty shape of boots made with the point in the centre. [Modified from Whitman.)