CONGENITAL ELEVATION OF THE SCAPULA reproduced. Transverse division of the cicatricial band, followed by immediate skin-grafting of the raw surface, also fails to give a satisfactory result. The best treatment is to dissect out all the cicatricial tissue on the front of the finger, and then to straigliten the latter. A considerable time—at least a year—should be allowed to elapse between the com- pletion of cicatrisation and the operation in order to allow the scar to become as supple as possible. The operation may be done as follows. An incision is carried from end to end of the finger upon each side of the central cicatrix, and as near it as possible. These incisions are curved outwards at each end, so that each one nearly reaches the dorsum (see Fig. 90, A). In this way a flap is marked out on each side of the finger, and these are dissected up so as to expose all the cicatricial tissue. The central cicatrix and the cicatricial tissue surrounding it are then dissected out, when generally the finger can be brought straight, although it may be necessary to divide, in addition, some of the various ligaments around the joints when the contraction has lasted for a long time. After the finger has been straightened, the flaps may be made to meet in the middle line throughout the greater part of their extent, a triangular raw space being left at either end which must be covered with a skin-graft (see Fig. 90, B). The advantage of this plan over that of simple transverse division of the cicatrix followed by skin-grafting is that the raw surface is covered by skin over the centre of the finger corresponding to the middle phalanx, so that no contraction occurs. It is not a matter of great moment should any contraction occur where the skin-grafts have been applied. In order to guard against the tendency to contraction still further, the hand should be put upon an anterior splint, with the finger hyper-extended, until the wound has healed. After about a fortnight's interval, a back splint should be substituted, similar to that described for use in Dupuytren's contraction (see Fig. 87), and to this the finger or fingers are fastened back day and night for six or eight weeks. At the end of the first fortnight, when the wound has healed, the splint should be removed three or four times a day, and careful massage and passive movements carried out. After eight weeks the splint is left off during the day, and the patient encouraged to use the fingers constantly. The splint, however, should be worn at night for six or eight months longer. CONGENITAL ELEVATION OF THE SCAPULA. In this deformity the scapula is drawn upwards upon the tlioracic wall, by contraction of the muscles at the back of the neck, gliding over the upper ribs until its superior angle can be felt projecting into the posterior triangle of the neck. A cursory examination gives the impression that there is a well-marked exostosis at this point, but careful examination and radiograms show that this is not the case, the unusual