WOUNDS 126 In cases where asepsis is obtained, the patient is free from pain by the next day at latest, and rapidly regains his normal strength and requires little further attention. If the operation has been a severe one, it may be well to keep him on slops—e.g. beef-tea, chicken-broth, milk, a Uttle champagne or other stimulant—for forty-eight hours after the opera- tion, and to commence solid food on the third day; he may have his ordinary diet a day or two later. When the operation has not been severe, and there has been no sickness, no restriction need be placed on the diet after the first twenty-four hours. Pain.—If the patient be in severe pain or be very restless, morphine may be required. But it must be remembered that this drug is not with- out serious disadvantages ; its use is often followed by flatulence and constipation, and may be accompanied by much headache, nausea, and depression, thereby distinctly increasing the patient's subsequent dis- comfort. If the patient can tolerate the pain, his condition next day will probably be better than if morphine had been administered. If required, the drug should be given in doses of an eighth to a quarter of a grain. Heroin (gr. jV) or aspirin (gr. 15) is often useful also for post-operative pain. The latter drug is specially useful for backache after operations. Aperients.—The patient is seldom quite comfortable until the bowels have been cleared out, and this should be effected on the second or third day after the operation. The best plan is to administer a dose of castor oil in the evening, followed by a Seidlitz powder or an enema in the morning. This does not apply to such operations as those upon the rectum, etc., where it is often essential to keep the bowels confined for some days. If there be severe flatulence, great relief can often be obtained by a turpentine enema. This may be prepared in one of two ways : In the first, an ounce of turpentine is beaten into an emulsion with about foixr to six ounces of thin gruel, the yolk of an egg being added to aid in the emulsification ; this is injected into the bowel first, and is followed by a large simple soap-and-water enema. In the second, the turpentine is simply stirred into the soap-and-water and the whole injected together. For minor degrees of flatulence the flatus-tube is often found to be of service. This is a stout india-rubber tube about twelve inches long, with a terminal opening ; it is passed into the bowel as far as possible, and may be with advantage left in situ. Change of position, sitting the patient up or turning him on his side, often helps in getting rid of flatus. There are certain points special to individual groups of cases, such as the length of time the patient must be confined to bed, etc., which cannot be dealt with here, and will be found in connection with the after-treatment of the individual operations concerned.