DEFORMITIES 284 as to expose the whole of the enlarged end of the metatarsal, and the bursa is dissected out ; the periosteum should not be taken up with the flap. The thickened portion of the bone is removed by means of a chisel and hammer, the line of the incision being from behind forwards, and parallel to the long axis of the shaft of the metatarsal. The whole of the enlarged inner surface of the head of the metatarsal is removed, and with it generally a small portion of the articular surface. The margins of the cut bone surface are rounded off with a chisel or a gouge so as to leave them absolutely smooth and without any sharp edge; failure to adopt this precaution may lead to considerable pain afterwards, and possibly also recurrence of the trouble. The internal lateral ligament is necessarily detached from its insertion into the metatarsal bone. After removal of the bone, it is well to introduce a tenotomy knife into the joint and to divide the external lateral ligament and any other resistant structure, so as to remedy the adduction properly. In very bad cases it may be necessary to divide the long extensor tendon, but in the majority of cases this is not called for. After the ligaments have been divided, the toe is brought forcibly inwards, and the deformity somewhat over-corrected—that is to say, the great toe is brought into a posi- tion of slight abduction.1 The rotation of the toe upon the metatarsal bone, to which reference has already been made (see p. 280), should also be carefully corrected ; it is gene- rally necessary to divide the outer part of the dorsal ligament in order to do this. When the toe has been brought into the desired position, an attempt should be made to shorten the internal lateral ligament so that it may form an obstacle to recurrence of the deformity. It is not easy to do this accur- ately ; the best plan is to pass catgut sutures through the remains of the ligament, and fasten it to the periosteum behind the cut surface of the bone. The wound should be stitched up without a drainage-tube. A straight splint should be applied along the inner border of the foot from the heel to beyond the toes; it should be padded especially thickly immediately behind the area of operation. When the posterior part of the splint has been fastened to the heel and the instep, a considerable lateral deflection of the toe can be obtained by drawing it towards the extremity of the splint by a separate bandage. The deformity will then be over- ' The terms ' adduction ' and ' abduction ' are used in relation to tlie middle line of the foot and not of the body. Fig. 84.—Operation for Hal- lux Valgus, showing the In- cision THROUGH THE SkIN.