ANESTHETICS 468 chloroform given out of a Junker's inhaler (Fig. 206) in which the face- piece has been removed and a tube substituted. The tube (Fig. 211) should have an internal diameter of, at least, four miUimetres (they are generally much too narrow), and may be passed down the nose if necessary. Some administrators prefer to very thoroughly saturate the patient with ether for five or six minutes before the operation is commenced, and then, if need be, continue with chloroform. My own experience is that ether causes undue congestion and bleeding, and the increased flow of mucus still further obscures the field of operation, and increases the tendency to asphyxia. In the more delicate operations in this region, e.g. sub-mucous resections of the septum-nasi, chloroform should be used from the beginning. The practice of different surgeons varies considerably in respect to the position adopted for the performance of these operations. Many surgeons prefer that, whenever possible, the patient should be absolutely recumbent, the head being allowed to hang over the end of the table, with the neck extended, so as to bring the post-nasal space into a dependent position. Personally, I am doubtful whether much is really gained by this, and I am quite sure that the bleeding is more profuse, and that the stretching of the muscles and tissues of the neck causes much Fig. 211.—Mouth Tube of Stout Metal. r. t r . /^n • ti At least 4 mm. in calibre. aftcr-discomfort. Othcrs, agam, like to have the head and shoulders well raised, and perhaps the chin strongly flexed towards the sternum. There are still others who place the patient sitting almost bolt upright; this position is not, perhaps, without some risk, and is not an ideal one for the anaesthetist, but I must admit that after much experience I have never seen trouble arise from its adoption. It is essential, however, that the feet and legs should be well elevated, and the body arranged for rapid lowering should signs of syncope present. In such dehcate operations as those for cleft palate, the dorsal position, with the head more or less extended, is imperative, so as to obtain the best view possible of the parts. In these cases, too, some surgeons of great experience consider that healing is retarded by the direct impact of the chloroform vapour from the tube upon the freshly cut edges of the wound, and they prefer to maintain the anfesthesia by means of chloroform dropped upon a towel or hnt; but direct impact of the vapour ought to be easily avoided, and when this is done it is difficult to understand why, if the patient be kept well under, the use of the towel or lint should be less injurious. In using the Junker's apparatus where the breathing is hkely to be obstructed, it is important to bear in mind that the heavy vapour of chloroform is apt to accumulate at the back of the throat, directly the breathing becomes in the slightest degree obstructed, so that the energy