WOUNDS 100 the skin and are most numerous where it is moist, as, for example, in the axillae, in the perineum, between the toes, and in the various folds of the skin. They are found not only in the old epithelium upon the surface, but also about the hairs, and they seem to penetrate to a certain dis- tance into the hair follicles and sebaceous glands ; hence their complete eradication is a matter of some difficulty. In order to get rid of them, antiseptic substances must be used, whichever of the two methods referred to above is to be employed. We practise and strongly recommend the following method of disin- fecting the skin: The skin should be shaved for a considerable distance round the area of the proposed operation. A lather of ether soap and i in 20 carbolic acid solution should be used. After shaving, the part is thoroughly washed with soap and i in 20 carbolic solution, or still better, a I in 20 watery solution of carbohc acid containing -5^x1^^ part of corro- sive subhmate (this we have already referred to as the ' strong mixture '). This cleansing should be prolonged and thorough; the first washing should be done with the hands, and afterwards the skin should be scrubbed with a sterilised nail-brush and strong mixture. If possible, this purification should take place some hours before the operation, and a piece of gauze soaked in a i in 40 carbolic solution, but without any mackintosh outside it, should be fixed over the part so as to prolong the disinfection ; in any case, the process should be repeated immediately before the operation. Before the incision is made, the strong mixture remaining on the surface of the skin should be washed away with a i in 2000 sublimate solution. It is always necessary to purify a wide area of the skin around the neighbourhood of the operation wound. Precautions.—In children or those suffering from pyrexia (for example, hectic fever), it is advisable not to wrap the part up in a carbolic dressing after disinfection, as the drug is apt to be absorbed and may lead to dangerous symptoms of poisoning ; in these cases the wet gauze or cloth which is afterwards put on to continue the disinfection should be soaked in a I in 2000 sublimate solution. The carbolic acid may be used for the disinfection of the skin immediately before the operation, but then little if any absorption will occur. Various other methods of disinfecting the skin are employed, but none of them are as certain as the above. Mechanical cleansing of the skin with sterile water is quite inefficient. Alcohol is neither strong enough nor rapid enough in its action, and penetrates the epidermis badly; the best of the alcoholic solutions is i in 2000 biniodide solu- tion in 70 per cent, methylated spirit. Painting the skin over with tincture of iodine has come into vogue lately, but it possesses no advantages over carbolic acid and is apt to leave the skin tender and easily irritated by the dressings, while it also leaves a quantity of old epithelium beneath which bacteria may spread into the wound after the operation.