102 WOUNDS Precautions during the Course of an Operation.—Precautions must be taken to see that no infection of the instruments, sponges, etc., occurs during the course of the operation. The most essential of these precautions is to surround the area of the operation with aseptic towels wrung out of a hot antiseptic solution. If these wet aseptic towels be placed all around the area of operation, instruments laid down upon them do not become contaminated, and the same is the case if the hands of the operator or his assistants rest upon them. At the hospitals with which we are connected the towels are boiled and then put to soak for two or three hours before the time fixed for the operation in hot i in 2000 sublimate solution in a vessel with a tight-fitting lid or a hot-water jacket; they are then lightly wrung out and arranged around the field of operation. Towels prepared in this way are quite aseptic, and in private practice it is easy to instruct a nurse to do this. For operations of emergency, it will suffice to boil the towels and then wring them out of hot i in 2000 sublimate. The clothes and blankets in contact with the patient must be covered with mackintoshes (tlie most convenient are those made of thin jaconet), and outside these, towels, prepared as just described, should be spread in all directions, so that nothing can by any chance be laid on septic objects, such as blankets, sheets, etc. During the operation also, the instruments should be handed to the surgeon direct from an antiseptic solution ; although the small amount of carbolic acid which might enter the wound from tlie forceps, knives, etc., is not really injurious, it is well, in order to avoid unnecessary irritation, to rinse the instruments in a I in 2000 sublimate solution before using them; basins of this lotion should be beside the operator and his assistants during the operation, and after an instrument has been used, it should be rinsed in the sub- limate solution before being used again. A word of caution may be given concerning the manner of handing ligatures and sutures to the surgeon. It is too frequently the custom to seize the ligature by one end and hand it with the other hanging free. The consequence is that its free end is very likely to come into contact with some unpurified object, such as a blanket or an article of clothing, in transit, and sepsis may thus be introduced into the wound. All ligatures and sutures should either be given to the surgeon with the free end coiled up in the palm of the hand, or one end should be taken in each hand, and special care taken to see that the intervening portion does not touch any unpurified object. Certain precautions as to dvess must be taken by the surgeon and his assistants in order to avoid accidental contamination of the wound during the course of an operation. The sleeves should be rolled up well above the elbow, and a mackintosh apron reaching from the collar to the ground and furnished with sleeves reaching to the elbow should be worn. The outer surface of this apron is well sponged over with i in 20 carbolic lotion, and