173 POISONED WOUNDS acid, but this ceases as soon as tlie nitric acid is neutralised. By far tlie best metliod of treating this disease, however, is by excision and subsequent slvin-grafting. If an anaesthetic be refused or be contra-indicated, acid nitrate of mercury should be applied instead of the nitric acid. Local Septic Infection.—The other troubles which arise from post-mortem wounds are septic infections, either local or general. The results of local septic infection vary in severity from the formation of a small pustule or abscess, to an extensive diffuse cellulitis spreading from the fingers up the hand and arm ; the treatment of these conditions has been already described (see Chap. II.). General Septic Infection.—The most serious result of a post-)noi'tem wound, however, is acute septicemia. This is perhaps most likely to occur when a wound is inflicted accidentally while making post-mortem examinations on patients who have died of suppurative peritonitis ; here the organisms in the pus are particularly virulent. The patient soon passes into the typhoid state, and maj/ die in from thirty-six to forty-eight hours. Treatment.—In this acute form of septic poisoning there is little hope of a successful result, as the disease is too rapid for any satisfactory intervention. The infection is usually due to streptococci, and there- fore a trial should always be made of anti-streptococcic serum. About 20 c.c. should be injected when the patient is first seen, and this should be followed by a further 20 c.c. in the course of the next twelve hours. Doses of at least 10 c.c. should be given every night and morning, and they should be continued for at least two days after the temperature has fallen to normal. In some cases good results are obtained by larger doses—e.g. 40 c.c. In all, the so-called ' polyvalent ' serum—i.e. that prepared from a number of different strains of streptococcus—should be employed. Stimulants, such as brandy in doses of an ounce every two to four hours according to the gravity of the case, must be given, and as much fluid nutritious food (beef essences, egg-and-milk, etc.) as possible should be administered. Quinine should be given in doses of ten grains every four hours for twenty-four or forty-eight hours in spite of any symptoms of cinchonism that may arise. The wound should be swabbed out with undiluted carbolic acid, but the local symptoms are usually slight and seldom call for special treatment. This acute form is extremely fatal, and the chance of the patient's recovery is small. The subject will be considered again in connection with infective diseases of wounds (see Chap. IX.).