394 DEFORMITIES In the early stages it is generally possible, at any rate during the first two or three years of life, to bring the head of the bone neaiiy, if not quite, down to its normal level by steady extension, and while doing this it is often possible to feel a deiinite click as the head comes down over the edge of the acetabulum. If the pelvis be fixed with one hand and the affected limb grasped with the other, the head of the femur can be moved up and down in a vertical direction over the side of the pelvis in young children. In later life, when the upward dislocation has become converted into a dorsal one, this vertical movement is not so free. The gait is marked by a peculiar waddUng movement which is due to the sliding of the head of the femur over the surface of the innominate bone, and in addition there is lordosis and adduction of the affected thigh. The condition is of considerable gravity on account of the increasing difficulty in walking as age advances. TREATMBISTT.—It is important to discriminate between the cases in which good results may be expected from treatment and those in which nothing can be done. There are some in which the lordosis is so slight and the waddling gait so little marked that it is inadvisable to undertake any treatment, especially if the deformity be bilateral. Similarly, treat- ment does not do much good when the displacement is considerable and the contraction of the soft parts is so great that there is little chance of getting the head of the bone down to the acetabulum. Those cases are best suited for treatment in which the deformity is unilateral, and there is such free mobility of the head that it is apparently not difficult to get it down to the acetabulum. Surgical measures should always be adopted in cases of dorsal displacement ; there is then at least the certainty of converting the dorsal displacement into an anterior one, and this may be made stable in many cases by a prolonged use of the plaster of Paris bandage recommended below. There are two methods of treatment which give fairly good results, and for which we are indebted to the work of foreign surgeons, chiefly Lorenz, Hoffa, and Pad. The object is to replace the head of the bone in the rudimentary acetabulum either with or without an open operation first of all, and then gradually to form an efficient hip-joint. Although both these methods show a distinct improvement upon the older ones, they nevertheless frequently fail to give a perfect result. They are chiefly apphcable to children between the ages of two and seven years ; before and after that time little can be done beyond the employment of apparatus. It may be possible to obtain a good result by operative means in children over seven years of age, but it is rare. We shall describe first the treatment for cases in early infancy before the child has learned to walk. After this will come the non-operative method which is now carried out chiefly by Lorenz's method and which is most suitable for children who are three or four years old and have learnt to walk. Finally we shaU describe the method by open operation