WOUNDS 104 veils are used by many surgeons as a matter of routine, but though advisable they are not absolutely necessary, unless the surgeon suffers from dandruff or sweats profusely, when he should wear a cap; or has a bad cough or cold, when he should wear a veil. It is well to remem- ber that organisms may be projected from the operator's mouth into the wound during loud talking, and therefore all unnecessary conversation should be avoided during an operation and the voice tones kept at a low level. No surgeon who has any serious septic condition of the nose or throat should do an operation until he has recovered from it. Management of Sponges.—The sponges, when removed from the jar in which they are kept, should be rinsed in a i in 2000 sublimate solution, and should never be washed in ordinary water during the course of the operation. When they have become soaked with blood, they should first be squeezed as dry as possible, then rinsed thoroughly in a cold i in 2000 sublimate, and placed in a basin containing a similar warm solution, out of which the surgeon wrings them before use. Every bowl, dish, or tray used during the operation should be sterilised outside and in, as there is always a chance of some part of it coming into contact with the hands, the instruments, the wound, or the field of operation. This may be done in an autoclave or by boiling. Failing either of these methods, they should be immersed for an hour or more in a i in 20 carbolic solution, or, failing that, scrubbed thoroughly with it. The nurse should of course disinfect her hands ; but, as she is constantly soiling them, she should not be allowed to wring out and hand the sponges ; if she does, she must disinfect her hands scrupulously and must be told off exclusively to hand sponges. This is an important point which is constantly neglected. Avoidance of Aerial Infection.—At one time considerable stress was laid upon the chance of wound infection by the air, but we now know that the organisms generally met with in the air are saprophytes, which do not grow in the tissues ; in fact, they are non-parasitic organisms. Hence the risk from organisms falhng into the wound from the air, and giving rise to trouble, is comparatively slight. At the same time it must be admitted that, in a hospital ward where a case of erysipelas may be present, there would be such a risk, and in hospital practice there must always be a certain degree of danger from this source. When instruments, sponges, etc., are always immersed in antiseptic solutions any aerial organisms which come into contact with them are rendered inert, for though spore-bearing organisms may not be destroyed, the non-spore-bearing forms such as those of erysipelas are killed at once. HEMORRHAGE AND THE MEANS OF ARRESTING IT. Bleeding may be arterial, venous, or capillary in nature. In arterial bleeding, blood of a bright red colour spurts from the cut vessel synchron- ously Twith^the systole of the heart, and flows continuously during the