352 DEFORMITIES the posterior tibial artery, and in front of the tendons, to a point just above the anterior tibial vessel. Parker employs at first a sharp-pointed tenotome to make the track along which he then introduces a curved one until its tip can be felt in front of the tendon of the tibialis anticus. The cutting edge is then turned downwards, the parts fully put on the stretch, and the tibialis anticus tendon is divided ; as the knife cuts down on the subjacent bones and cartilage, the ligaments yield, while, on with- drawing the knife, the tendon of the tibialis posticus is divided. The essential point in this operation is the division of the ligaments, which must be very thorough. Should the tibialis posticus not be divided on withdrawing the knife, it can be done afterwards through a separate incision (see p. 350). Wrenching.—After these structures have been divided, the foot should be forcibly wrenched into position, and the deformity over-corrected ; that is to say, the foot should be brought into a position of full abduction and eversion. If this can be effected by the hand, it is best, because the surgeon is then enabled to judge how much force he is employing, and at the same time there is not that bruising of the anterior part of the foot, which is a necessary accompaniment of the use of wrenches. Lorenz has introduced a hard wedge-shaped support which is useful as a fulcrum over which to unfold the foot and very considerable force can be exercised in this way provided that the foot be large enough to be grasped easily in the hands. When the foot is very small, however, it is difficult to get a proper hold of it, and then, it may be necessary to employ some instrument, the best being Thomas's wrench (see Fig. 116). Thomas's wrench is composed of two parallel metal bars covered with thick india- rubber, which can be approximated or separated by means of a screw in the handle. One bar is placed transversely beneath the sole of the foot, just behind the ball of the great toe, whilst the other lies parallel to it over the dorsum. The bars are then approximated until the foot is well grasped, and it is then possible to manipulate the foot with ease. After-treatment.—When all the resisting structures, with the exception of the tendo Achillis, have been divided, a collodion dressing is applied over the tenotomy puncture, and the foot fixed temporarily on a splint. For the first three days the best arrangement is an internal splint applied to the foot and leg. When the equinus is extreme, the foot lies almost in the same straight line with the leg after correction of the varus deformity, and therefore the adduction of the foot and the inward bend at the transverse tarsal joint can be remedied by a straight internal splint applied from the knee to the toes. When the wounds have healed, it is well to put up the foot temporarily in a Sayre's apparatus, around which plaster of Paris is appHed as already described (see p. 348). The subsequent treat- ment will depend to a large extent upon the patient's surroundings. In hospital patients who cannot afford an elaborate apparatus and who are unable to give proper attention to the care of the foot, it is best to continue