TALIPES CALCANEUS 341 a muscle or its tendon into such a situation tliat it cannot work to ad- vantage, and finally he should not set one muscle the task of performing two opposite movements as would be the case if the tendo Achillis were split and one half were anastomosed to a paralysed tibialis anticus. The choice of operations is very large : we need only indicate the most common ones, as each case must be treated on its merits. When the dorsal abductors are paralysed and the foot falls into a varus position, the tendon of the tibialis anticus may be made to pass beneath the ex- tensors and fastened to the insertion of the peroneus tertius. A paralysed tibialis anticus may be replaced by a healthy extensor hallucis, and paralysis of the calf muscles may be treated by inserting the tendon of the peroneus longus into the tendo Achillis. Sometimes the tendon oi the peroneus brevis is made to pass between the tendo xAchillis and the tibia to be inserted into the tendon of the tibialis posticus. There is little to say as to the steps of the operation ; tendon grafting is dealt wit 11 elsewhere (see Vol. IL). The main points to be attended to are: (1) To unite the tendons so that there is no slack when the limb is in the over-corrected position. (2) To secure as firm and as large a surface of union as possible, by an oblique section, or by some of the other methods recommended for tendon suture. When the tendon of the paralysed muscle is very small it is well to implant the tendon of the healthy one into or beneath the periosteum ; some surgeons bore holes in the bone and thus tie down the tendon. These precautions are necessary to prevent the union stretching or giving way subsequently, as it might do were an ordinary end-to-end union practised. (3) Sometimes a single large incision will do, e.g. when two parallel muscles are operated upon ; sometimes a flap is necessary and sometimes two separate incisions are wanted, e.g. when a tendon has to be trans- ])lanted from one side of the foot to the other. The mobility of the tendon does not appear to be materially interfered with, even after it has been removed from its sheath and passed for a considerable distance through connective tissue, so long as its direction is such that it can act to advantage. {4) After the operation, the limb is put up in the slightly over- corrected position, and when the wound has healed, a plaster casing is applied and left on for a month or more in order to insure firm union. Some light apparatus designed to prevent stretching of the transplanted muscle should be worn for at least another six months, and during this time massage and exercises must be emploj^ed to strengthen the transplanted muscle, hi seven or eight months from the time of operation all apparatus may be dispensed with, and the patient mav walk freely. It is advisable, however, to persevere with the exercises for at least six months longer. Arthrodesis.—This term implies the artificial production of anchylosis