DEFORMITIES 390 only be rectified very gradually as growth proceeds and the rickety condition disappears. The elastic traction should be kept up until all tendency to repro- duction of the deformity as the child hes in bed has disappeared. This will probably be in from four to six weeks in early cases. The subse- quent treatment should be that appropriate for rickets (see p. 363), and special care must be taken to prevent the Umbs habitually assuming their old faulty position. A simpler form of apparatus is shown in Fig. 135. Two sphnts, each two and a half inches wide, and long enough to reach from the axilla to just beyond the heel are prepared. Opposite to the trochanter, a piece of wood the same width as the long splint and about six inches long is fixed to each splint at right angles, the free ends being perforated by a half-inch hole. Opposite the trochanters, just above the point where the shorter pieces are attached, the two splints are joined together by a broad strip of webbing which serves to keep them from coming Fig. 135.—Splint for use in Coxa Vara. For the sake of clearness the bandages are omitted. forward, but is sufficiently loose to allow rotation inward of the whole apparatus. The splints are fixed firmly to the legs by a spiral band of strapping and bandages ; to the trunk they are fastened merely by a loose binder. A piece of elastic or string is threaded through the holes at the ends of the short vertical pieces, and the whole leg is rotated inward by tightening this. An improvement of fifteen to twenty degrees can be obtained in a fortnight. Operative.—Should no improvement result after a careful and pro- longed trial of this method, some form of operative procedure designed to overcome the excessive outward rotation will have to be considered. Operative treatment, however, is rarely called for in young children, as the methods advocated above will certainly suffice for all but very neglected cases, and there will be fewer of these now that the nature of the affection is widely recognised. It may be necessary, however, in young adults. Sub-trochanteric Division of the Femur.—In a bad case in a child we obtained a good result by dividing the femur below the trochanters through a vertical incision four inches long carried down to the bone from just below the upper border of the great trochanter. The bone was cleared with a rugine and divided transversely just below the