OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT 105 diastole. In venous bleeding there is a steady flow of dark blood, except in the case of the veins of the neck, where it escapes in jets at each expiration, with a steady flow between. Capillary bleeding is an oozing from the surface of the wound. Spontaneous Arrest of Bleeding.—Bleeding from any of these sources mav cease spontaneously, failing which, special means will be necessary to arrest it. The mode in which haemorrhage ceases spon- taneously differs according to the blood-vessels concerned in the bleeding. In the case of arteries divided transversely, the circular fibres of the muscular coat contract so that the orifice of the vessel is narrowed ; at the same time the internal and middle coats curl up in the interior of the vessel, and the longitudinal fibres contract and shorten it, so that it refracts within its sheath. These changes are followed by clotting of the blood ; as soon as the blood comes in contact with tissues which are injured, or which are not similar to the healthy lining membrane of the vessels, it undergoes coagulation. Consequently, clotting tends to take place as soon as the blood escapes from the vessel, unless the flow of blood be so free that the clot is swept away by it. In the case of small vessels, clotting occurs where the blood comes in contact with the divided coats, more especially between the vessel and its sheath, and the clot formed there tends to occlude the ends of the arterv still further by its pressure. This clot forms a mechanical obstacle to the escape of the blood (provided that the force of the blood stream be not sufficient to expel it), and it soon extends upwards into the interior of the vessel, in most cases as far as the nearest collateral branch. The result is that a conical wedge of blood-clot is formed inside the vessel, which is very effectual in bringing about cessation of the bleeding. The endothelial cells then begin to multiply in the neighbourhood of the clot which they rapidly cover. Losing their typical flattened shape they grow into the substance of the clot, and from them is formed a large amount of the connective tissue which replaces the thrombus. At the same time connective tissue grows in from the neighbouring parts, so that the divided end of the vessel becomes completely occluded by fibrous tissue and shrinks up. Ultimately a small fibrous cord is all that remains to represent the vessel from the seat of division to the nearest collateral branch. Wlien an artery is only partially cut across, the con- traction and retraction of its coats tend to enlarge the orifice, and so to increase bleeding rather than diminish it, and in these cases the natural haemostatic process cannot occur vmtil the vessel has been completely divided. Capillary bleeding ceases simply as the result of coagulation of blood in the capillaries. Venous bleeding ceases as the result of the formation of a small clot outside the vein and the subsequent sealing of the part with lymph when the vein is only partially divided ; when the division is complete, clotting occurs and the vein becomes closed by adhesion.