CLUB-HAND in the rectified position and is kept there for a month. The tendo Achillis and, if necessary, the posterior Hgament of the ankle joint, should be then divided. In very severe cases, characterised by extreme inversion of the os calcis and severe equinus, it may be advisable to begin by excising the astragalus (see p. 332). This enables the equinus to be remedied and the inversion of the os calcis rectified. The varus part of the deformity can be treated by a cuneiform tarsectomy undertaken some months later. The after-treatment is similar to that recommended for talipes equinus (see p. 326), the chief trouble being the inversion of the os calcis, which is most difficult to remedy. The patient must be kept under mechanical treatment by suitable shoes for at least two or three years, for, even after an operation of this radical nature, a relapse may occur if the treatment be abandoned too soon. Should any tendency to a relapse manifest itself, it may be overcome at an early stage by wrenching the foot and again putting it up in plaster of Paris ; but even up to the end of his life the patient should wear specially strong boots with the sole somewhat thickened along the outer border, and the inner side of the boot cut straight, and made of very stiff leather so as to prevent adduction of the front part of the foot. CLUB-HAND. This deformity is comparatively rare. The commonest variety is caused by congenital absence of the radius, and in most cases is associated with absence of the thumb. Other cases occur in which there is a con- genital contraction of the muscles, usually associated with wasting, pro- ducing a condition analogous to that found in the common variety of talipes equino-varus. The hand is deflected to one side and, in con- genital absence of the radius, lies in contact with the forearm, the lingers pointing towards the elbow joint. TREATMENT.—This is unsatisfactory, but the hand is almost useless if left alone. In very young children the muscles and tendons are so delicate and friable that any operation for lengthening them is out of the question. Further, the skin on the radial border of the hand is so con- tracted that if an attempt be made to rectify the deformity by dividing the skin, an exceedingly large wound is left, the cicatrisation of which leads to ti'oublesome swelling of the hand. Much can be done by manipulation, however, and this should be commenced immediately the child is born. The hand is gently stretched until it is nearly in a line with the forearm ; a small tubular poroplastic felt splint is then moulded around the wrist so as to maintain the correction. As the child gets older, the shape of the splint can be modified, and in this way considerable improvement may be obtained. Operative interference should not be attempted until the child is at least five years old. The contraction of the skin is best remedied by