393 CHAPTER XX. CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. The hip joint is not infrequently the subject of congenital dislocation, and the affection is much more commonly met with in females than in males. The deformity may be unilateral or bilateral; probably it is more often bilateral. PATHOLOGY.—The condition commonly met with in children under the age of puberty is displacement of the head of the femur upwards from the acetabulum so that it lies just beneath the anterior superior spine of the ilium. As the child gets older and heavier and walks more, the head passes backwards, until eventually there is a typical dislocation on the dorsum ilii. In the early cases there may be very little lordosis as long as the head of the bone lies immediately above the acetabulum ; as the head passes on to the dorsum the lordosis becomes well marked. The head of the bone is practically unaltered in early cases, but in long-standing cases (after seven years) it may be flattened and mushroom-like. The acetabulum is always present but is smaller than normal, and is often almost entirely masked by the anterior part of the capsule of the joint which is tightly stretched across it and bound down by the tendon of the psoas, so that only a small slit-like aperture is left leading into the acetabular cavity. The neck of the bone is invariably rotated forwards, and this is an important point to bear in mind during treatment. The ligamentum teres is represented by a thin elongated cord, or is entirely absent. When the dislocation has lasted for more than a few months, contrac- tion occurs in the muscles surrounding the joint and not only prevents the head of the femur from being brought into position but also interferes with walking. The muscles most affected are the adductors w-hich draw the affected limb inwards ; in extreme bilateral cases a condition of cross-legged deformity may be produced. There is always some lordosis which increases as the child grows older and is most apparent on standing. In unilateral cases there is generally some scoliosis also.