301 FLAT FOOT (3) Chronic cases in which there is considerable deformity, and in which the arch can be restored only with difficulty. (4) Bad cases, with marked deformity which cannot be reduced without employing considerable force. (5) The most severe cases of all, accompanied by bony deformity or anchlyosis, in which reduction is impossible even after using great force. Acute Flat Foot.—The treatment must be directed first to the arrest of the inflammatory condition which is the primary cause of the affection ; the arch of the instep must also be supported until the parts have had time to become consolidated. The main essential is rest ; the patient must be prohibited from standing or bearing weight upon the foot. Another essential is to arrest the inflammatory condition causing the trouble. The means at our command for this purpose are numerous, and the choice of the particular form will depend to a large extent upon the cause of the affection. In gonorrliceal cases the treatment must be directed to the general condition as well as to the local disease. This will involve the use of the methods appropriate for the treatment of gonorrliceal diseases of joints and ligaments, which are described in detail in Vol. IIL In all cases the patient should be confined to bed, and should lie with the knee bent and the leg resting upon the outer side of the foot—a position somewhat resembling that of the tailor at work. The general treatment most suitable for the condition is the internal administration of quinine and iron, whilst means should be employed to arrest the gonorrhoeal discharge (see Vol. V.). Vaccine treatment seems to be of value in some of these cases (see Appendix). It is essential to remember the great tendency to the occurrence of anchlyosis after gonorrhoeal arthritis. Whilst rest is essential in the earlier stages, fixation apparatus, such as plaster of Paris, must be employed with caution and for a short time only. As soon as the arch of the instep is sufficiently maintained by making the patient lie in bed with the knee flexed and the weight of the leg bearing upon the outer border of the foot, it is better to discard all fixation apparatus, and to employ massage and movements. Adhesions in or about the tarsal joints must be broken down as a preliminary measure. In the ordinary rheiimaiic cases, salicylates should be administered ; hot fomentations are of value if the pain be acute. The patient should be confined to bed, with the knee bent and the foot resting upon its outer side in tailor-fashion for the first few days ; this position alone will almost entirely restore the arch of the instep in these cases. Fixation.—In all cases of acute flat foot, except those due to gonorrhoea, it is well, when the pain begins to subside, to put the foot up in plaster of Paris with the deformity rather over-corrected—viz. with the arch of the instep somewhat exaggerated. The foot should be