183 EFFECTS OF INTENSE COLD it has partly dried, and this can afterwards be removed with warm water. This apphcation should be renewed at least once daily, or oftener if the patient has been walking about. Glycerinum belladonnae smeared freely over the inflamed part is also of value, and it is more suit- able when the chilblain surrounds the toe entirely ; a piece of boric lint is covered with the preparation and wrapped round the toe. Five per cent, salicylic ointment is also a valuable application, while other cases seem greatly benefited by a few short exposures to the X-rays. When the chilblains are ulcerating, the best application is a piece of lint soaked in balsam of Peru, and with some excess of it on the surface. In changing the dressings, the chilblain should be bathed with warm boric lotion ; the application should be renewed night and morning. Cod liver oil (3j) and syrup of iodide of iron (Tllxx-xxv) should be given internally three times a day. Ichthyol in pills of i to 3 gr. thrice daily is said to be valuable. Nourishing diet, with plenty of fatty food, should be given, and when the chilblains affect the feet and have ulcerated, the patient must either lie up entirely, or must refrain from walking. In any case thick, warm, undarned stockings, with stout well-fitting boots and \varm gloves, sliould be worn. Of the Second Stage.—In the second stage of cold, stimulant lotions or balsam of Peru {vide supra) are the best applications in the first instance. As the ulceration is usually of an atonic form, everything possible should be done to increase the nutrition of the limb. Massage applied to the whole limb above the limit of the sore will keep the circu- lation active, and will be of great benefit ; electricity in the form of electric baths, or the Faradic current applied to the muscles, and used in precisely the same way as for cases of Raynaud's disease, is of great value (see p. 77). When the sore begins to heal, half-strength boric ointment may be substituted for the balsam of Peru. The part should be elevated, but it may not be necessary to keep the patient in bed, rest on a sofa often being sufficient ; this point, however, must be determined by the progress of the ulcer. If it does not heal, or if it shows signs of spreading when the patient is allowed to remain on tlie sofa, rigid confinement to bed, with the foot elevated, must be enforced. Cod liver oil should be administered internally, togetlier with stimulants and a nutritious diet. Of the Third Stage (Frostbite).—In the first place, the part should be thawed by friction with snow (see p. 182), and then wrapped up in cotton-wool. If, however, the frostbite be severe, it is well to disinfect the part at once, shaving the skin, scrubbing it with strong mixture, cleaning the nails, as already described for gangrene (see p. 68), and then wrapping up the limb in cyanide gauze and salicylic wool. Im- mediate amputation should not be performed ; it is advisable to wait for a line of demarcation. It is not uncommon to find that the slough only involves the skin and subcutaneous tissues, or even only the surface