153 TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS precautions recommended above. After a very severe operation, the temperature is at first sub-normal, the patient suffers from a certain amount of shock for some hours, and this is followed, to an extent closely- corresponding to the degree of shock, by a certain amount of reaction, so that next day the temperature may rise to 100° or even to 101° F. At the same time, however, the pam complained of immediately after the operation subsides, and there is no fresh development of it, as would be the case were the temperature due to sepsis. In the course of another twelve to twenty-four hours the temperature falls rapidly to normal. Treatment without Antiseptics.—The other plan, to which we have already referred (see p. 99), in which attempts are made to keep wounds aseptic without the use of antiseptic lotions and dressings, does not yield in practice the uniformly good results which are obtained by the method just described. In it the use of antiseptics is entu-ely avoided durmg the actual performance of the operation, and in the after- treatment of the wound. The skin is purified, and the hands of the assistants and the operator are disinfected much in the manner already described (see p. 150). The instruments are boiled, ]?ut are not afterwards immersed in antiseptics, and no antiseptic solution is at hand in which to rinse the hands or the sponges. The sponging of the wound is done with pieces of wool or gauze disinfected by heat and used dry, and the towels placed around the operation area are also dry, and have been previously disinfected by heat. There is therefore no possibility of correcting any accident that may happen during the operation, such as dust falling on the towels, or the unobserved contact of the hand with any object that has not been disinfected. The dressings consist for the most part of simple absorbent unmedicated gauze and wool which have been disinfected by heat, the drum or bag in which they have been disinfected being opened at the side of the patient by the surgeon himself. It is obvious that the greatest care is required in handling these if accidental contamination is to be avoided. In the Listerian plan, which we recom- mend, any such accidental contamination may be automatically remedied if it should occur, because everything is being frequently soaked in an antiseptic solution ; in the so-called ' aseptic ' plan there is no corrective for these accidents at all, and, consequently, experience shows that the results obtamed by its means are inferior to those obtained by the other method. There is no doubt that in theory it ought to be possible to carry out this aseptic plan, and if it were found in practice that the use of antiseptics gave rise to great irritation in wounds, the employment of such a cumbrous and troublesome method as this would be justified. As a matter of fact, however, the irritation of wounds from such antiseptics as we recommend is inappreciable, and there is no reason for making use of this troublesome method, particularly as the results obtained by it are not so good as that obtained by using antiseptics. The aseptic method can only be carried