220 SYPHILIS table gives, however, an excellent guide to the amount of mercury necessary in an average case. Treatment by i gr. Hg Pills Months Pills Grs. Hg First Course. I month, taking 6 pills a day .... I 180 60 3 days' rest ....... I montli, taking 4 pills a day .... I I 20 40 7 days' rest ....... I month, taking 3 pills a day .... I 90 30 I month's rest ....... I Second Course. 3 months, taking 3 pills a day .... 3 270 90 I month's rest ....... I Third Course. 3 months, taking 2 pills a day .... 3 180 60 Interval of i month ...... I Fourth Course. 3 months, taking i pill a day .... 3 90 30 3 months' rest ....... 3 Fifth Course. 3 months, taking i pill a day .... 3 90 30 Total 21 1,020 340 Thus the course lasts a little more than twenty-one months, during which time the patient takes 340 grains of mercury. At a later stage of secondary syphilis in weakly subjects other forms of mercury often act better, and give rise to less intestinal irritation than the one just described. The green iodide of mercury, for example, may be given in pill forin, in doses of a quarter to half a grain combined with a quarter of a grain of extract of opium, three or four times a daj^ In the late secondary stage, and especially when the patient is very anaemic and feeble, the French preparation known as ' Gibert's syrup' is often extremely good. Each ounce of this contains one-twelfth of a grain of biniodide of mercury, five grains of iodide of potassium, syrup, and water. When more rapid mercurialisation is required in a patient who will carry out instructions faithfully, it is best to employ inunction, and in the later stages of the secondary period iodide of potassium should be administered internally at the same time. The longer the syphilis has lasted the better is the result obtained by combining iodide of potassium with the mercury. The ointment usually selected for inunction is unguentum hydrargyri, but better results are obtained with a 10 or 20 per cent, oleate of mercury combined with an equal quantity of lanoline ; this preparation has the advantage of not soiling the linen as much as the blue ointment generally does.