CURVED TIBIA AND FIBULA 367 The mechanical treatment of the acute anterior curvature immediately above the ankle is unsatisfactory, and operation will be called for in most cases, after the acute stage of the rickets has passed off. In the mean- time the child should be kept off his feet by means of suitable splints. In eases of marked curvature when the bones have undergone solidification, as is usual in children over the age of four or five, early operation is advisable. The chance of straightening the limb by splints is extremely slight, and it is a waste of time and money to persevere with them. The exact nature of the operation will be determined by the precise form and extent of the curve ; the seat of the operation will also to some extent be determined by the same factors. When there is a general concavity of the tibia inwards, division of the bones should be practised about the centre of the curve. When the curve is limited to either the upper or lower part of the bone, division should be practised opposite the point of greatest curvature. In the antero- posterior curvatures at the lower end, the bone should be divided at the acute angle formed by the curve. Several points require consideration in connection with the operation. The surgeon may either simply divide the bone, i.e. he may perform a linear osteotomy, or he may remove a wedge- shaped portion from it. It is also im- portant to consider whether the hbula requires division or not ; sometimes this bone is so soft that it can be bent without being broken, and at most a greenstick fracture may be produced by bringing the limb into position. When either of these procedures can be carried out, it is of considerable advan- tage, as if division of the fibula can be avoided, there is only a single wound, and a fairly strong bone is left to act as a splint to the other. When, however, the rickety condition has passed off and the bones have undergone complete consolidation, and more particularly when Fig. 121.—Tracing from a case of Curvature of the lower end of the Tibia treated by Simple Splinting. The age of the child is shown upon the lines, which indicate the long axis of the foot.