INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 26 part either directly through a wound, or indirectly through the lymphatic vessels or the blood-stream. In the case of an acute abscess the entrance is usually more or less direct. The organisms may either gain entrance to the blood through wounds, or they may pass through an unbroken surface which is no longer quite healthy; this is most prone to occur in the intestinal mucous membrane, and in acute suppurative periostitis or osteomyelitis it is not uncommon to obtain a history of diarrhoea or some other intestinal derangement immediately preceding the onset of the attack. The time taken for the formation of an acute abscess varies, and in some cases a considerable interval elapses between the onset of the inflammation and the definite formation of pus. These cases, how- ever, should really be classed as ' sub-acute abscesses.' Mode of Extension.—When an acute abscess has formed, its tendency is to make its way to the free surface of the skin or miicous membrane, the extension not being a mechanical process due to the pressure of the pus, but an active and vital one. This is what is known as the ' burrowing ' of the abscess. When an abscess forms beneath the skin, it spreads to this structure, and ultimately bursts through it in preference to burrowing along the subcutaneous ceUular tissue, because the vital changes in skin are more active than in the deeper tissues, and granulation tissue is formed there more quickly. When an abscess forms beneath a dense fascia, the conditions are different. The fascia is not converted into granulation tissue so quickly as is the areolar tissue beneath, and, consequently, an abscess so confined will, if left unopened, extend for long distances and in various directions beneath the fascia. Ultimately, however, the fascia undergoes granu- lation, or sloughs owing to the interference with its blood-supply by the pressure of the pus, and the latter escapes into the subcutaneous tissue. As soon as this takes place, the abscess behaves like a subcutaneous one and perforates the skin. The mode in which the abscess burrows is of great importance from the point of view of treatment. If an acute abscess be left unopened until a late period, it will be found to be no longer a single round cavity, but to contain numerous diverticula corresponding to the directions in which the inflammation has extended in the deeper tissues. Unless these diverticula be opened up thoroughly, mere evacua- tion of the superficial portion of the abscess often fails to arrest the suppuration. Perhaps the best example of this is seen in the breast, where the abscess rarely consists of a single round cavity, but usually possesses many diverticula, corresponding to the blood-vessels and lymphatics which accompany the ducts and lobules of the breast. Unless an abscess of this kind be opened in the manner described below, the pus in these diverticula will not be evacuated properly, and may lead to fresh exten- sions, the ultimate result being that the entire breast becomes riddled with sinuses.