112 WOUNDS given by the rectum some hours before the operation. Opinions are divided as to its merits. Symptoms of Serious Loss of Blood.—So much blood may be lost, either from continuous oozing from the vessels, or from its sudden escape from some large trunk, that the patient's life is endangered. Bleeding may also occur under a dressing, or into the abdomen in cases of abdominal operations, after the patient has been removed to bed, and it is necessary that the surgeon should recognise the symptoms of serious loss of blood. They are pallor, a rapid, soft, and feeble pulse, gasping or sighing respira- tion from imperfect oxygenation of the tissues, and a tendency to twitch- ing of the muscles; when the hcemorrhage is rapid the patient soon loses consciousness. The most typical sign is restlessness; the patient gasps for air, throws himself about, and uncovers his chest in the endeavour to get more air into his lungs. Transfusion and Infusion.—These symptoms should at once lead the surgeon to assume that serious bleeding is going on, and the dressing should therefore be removed immediately, and the wound opened up if necessary, with the view of securing the bleeding point. The patient's condition may be so bad that it is not advisable to search for the bleeding point, lest he die during the attempt to find it, and in such a case, tem- porary pressure must be resorted to. In any case, measures must be taken to restore the volume of fluid in the blood-vessels by means of infusion if the loss of blood be serious. The fluid used for infusion may either be blood, pure, mixed with phosphate of soda, or defibrinated—in which case the operation is termed transfusion; or an indifferent fluid, such as normal saline solution—when it should be called infusion. The use of blood, either pure or mixed with phosphate of soda, has been found unsatisfactory, since the red blood corpuscles introduced have compara- tively Httle effect as carriers of oxygen, and there is great difficulty and risk in introducing pure blood, chiefly owing to the formation of coagula in the instruments, or the detachment of coagula from them giving rise to pulmonary embolism. Even delibrinated blood is not free from this last objection. On the other hand, indifferent fluids answer the purpose of giving the heart enough fluid to contract upon, and enabling it to drive what corpuscles remain through the circulation, thus keeping the patient alive until fresh blood has been manufactured, without exposing him to the risks of the other method. We shall not describe the technique of transfusion with blood. Saline Infusion.—^The most common material for infusion is the ordinary salt sohition used in physiological work, that is to say, a 075 per cent, solution of common salt. In practice, this is roughly about a tea- spoonful of common salt to the pint of water. The solution should be boiled and allowed to cool down to 100° F. by standing it under cover or in ice. In cases of emergency, however, it is not always easy to get boiled water, and too much time is wasted if the water has to be boiled and