496 EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD infection. Such cases are, in my experience, somewhat rare, and, even in very severe cases of peritonitis, leucocytosis is the rule. When they occur the diagnosis (which is usually obvious to the clinician) may be made from the differential count and the presence of a well-marked iodine reaction. Similarly, a leucopenia may arise in a patient suffering from severe exhaustion and malnutrition even when the infection is not an extremely severe one. Thus when perforation occurs in typhoid fever there is usually a well-marked leucocytosis, which is the more obvious since this disease is normally associated with a normal number of leucocytes, or with a leucopenia : in most cases the count rises to 15,000 within half an hour or so after the perforation occurs, and usually rises still higher. But when perforation takes place in patients who have been greatly reduced in resisting power by a prolonged attack of the disease this rise may not take place. The prognosis is then unusually bad. There are some other conditions in which a leucocyte count may be of value to the surgeon. Mahgnant tumours are usually associated with a moderate leucocytosis —up to 16,000 per cubic millimetre or possibly a little higher, whereas innocent tumours rarely cause any alteration, unless they are inflamed or sloughing. This may be of occasional value in diagnosis, but it is hardly necessary to point out that it affords no means of distinguishing between a malignant tumour and an inflammatory mass. The leucocjrtosis is, perhaps, specially constant in carcinoma of the stomach, whereas in most of the diseases from which it is often difficult to diagnose it the leucocytes are usuaUy reduced. In this way the test is of some value, but several examinations of the blood should be made. In glandular enlargement, in which the diagnosis lies between tubercle, Hodgkin's disease, and lymphatic leucocythaemia, a leucocyte count only affords help by affording a means whereby the last-named condition may be diagnosed: it is associated with a large increase in the number of leucocytes, which will be seen to be mainly lymphocytes when stained films are examined. Tubercle and Hodgkin's disease are indistinguish- able by ordinary examinations of the blood. A few differences have been described, but they are slight and far from constant, and in either disease the blood may be normal for long periods. THE DIFFERENTIAL LEUCOCYTE COUNT. The differential leucocyte count is often necessary to supplement the information obtained by the count obtained in the method described above. The most convenient method is to spread films on cover-glasses and stain them by Jenner's method. Square cover-glasses |th in. in diameter are best to use, and they must be scrupulously clean. (Clean