DRUGS APPLIED TO THE SURFACE 483 incision made into a tissue upon which pure carbolic acid, or even a solution of I in 20, has been painted, will hardly be felt, but this plan is not to be recommended. The drug generally employed is cocaine or one of its derivatives, such as eucaine. Cocaine is the crystalline, active principle of the leaves of the coca plant {erythroxylon coca), and its chemical formula is CiyHoiNO.i. The alkaloid itself is nearly insoluble in water, but the hydrochlorate is freely soluble, and is the form in which the substance is generally used. Solutions of this salt are particularly prone to decom- position, and numerous forms of infective bacteria frequently appear. To a considerable extent, this is prevented if 5 per cent, of salicylic acid be added to the solution. When first introduced into surgical practice, the use of 5 per cent, and 10 per cent, solutions was advised, and these are about the strengths still usually employed in this country. On the Continent and in America, however, where, as already mentioned, the subject of local anaesthesia has received much attention, rather larger quanti- ties of much weaker strength (i or 2 per cent.) are used, so as to avoid the untoward symptoms which frequently occur when the more potent solutions are employed. In any event, not more than from -J to I grain of the drug itself should be injected hypodermically at a single sitting. In using cocaine, it is particularly advisable that, whenever possible, the patient should be recumbent, and, as a useful precaution, a cup of broth or beef-tea, or an alcoholic stimulant, may be given beforehand. The following are the princi- pal plans adopted, viz. :— (1) Instillation.—In ophthal- mic surgery a few drops of the solution are placed in the eye, and the in- stillation is repeated at intervals of three or four minutes, until a sufh- cient degree of anaesthe- sia has been obtained; this is usually after the lapse of from five to ten minutes. (2) Spray.—This is useful in operations about the nose and larynx. A convenient form of spraj-producer is shown in Fig. 219. A few drops are sprayed at intervals over the surface to be operated upon, as with instillations. 11 2 Fig. 219.—Cocaine Spray for Throat and Nose Work.