347 TALIPES EQUINO-VARUS increase the nvitrition of the muscles ; massage is more useful than electricity, which is only useful when the case is of paralytic origin and which has the objection that it may frighten the child. Unless this treat- ment be begun at the earliest possible period, operative measmes must precede it, since tight structures will have to be divided. Hence treat- ment should be commenced immediately the condition is noticed, which is usually within a few days after birth. Under these circumstances, the outlook is very favourable, and practically the entire course of treatment can be carried out by the mother or an intelligent nurse. Manipulations.—The manipulations are simple, but should be carried out regularly and for a long time. They consist essentially in abduction of the anterior part of the foot at the medio-tarsal joint, and eversion and dorsi-flexion of the foot as a whole. They should be carried out gently, so as not to frighten the child or to produce pain ; if pain be caused, spasm of the muscles is set up, and this offers an obstacle to the manipulations. If, on the other hand, the manipulations be carried out gently and in a coaxing manner, the child becomes accustomed to them and does not resent them. The front part of the foot should be grasped with the right hand while the leg is steadied with the left which embraces it just above the anlde joint. The metatarsus is then gradually carried outwards, until the iimer border of the foot is quite straight. The right hand should next be slipped up a little more towards the heel, so as to grasp the whole foot, the toes lying between the ball of the thumb and the little finger. The entire foot is then gradually everted until the sole looks rather outwards, and the foot is dorsi-flexed at the ankle joint, while eversion is maintained. The essential points in this procedure are to unfold the anterior part of the foot, to overcome the inversion of the foot as a whole, and to dorsi-flex the foot at the ankle joint. It is of extreme importance to remember that it is not enough to produce eversion of the anterior half of the foot alone— that part, namely, in front of the mid-tarsal joint. This point is often overlooked, not only in these earlv cases, but in those of every descrip- tion, and the result is that, while after prolonged treatment the equinus and the faulty position of the front half of the foot have been overcome, the under surface of the os calcis looks inwards instead of directly down- wards. When the foot is everted, the os calcis should be everted as well as the anterior part of the foot. After the foot has been brought into position by these manipalations, it should be held there with the right hand for frve or ten minutes, whilst the leg is gently rubbed, and the muscles of the calf and front of the leg are kneaded with the left. These manipulations and the accompanying massage should be repeated three or four times a day, and in the intervals the foot should be fixed in a splint, so as to prevent recurrence of the deformity. Apparatus.—The most satisfactory splint for infants is the metal one