29 CIRCUMSCRIBED ACUTE ABSCESS wound open sufficiently for drainage, and may be discontinued in a few days. When the abscess is very large, and particularly when the pus has burrowed for a considerable distance, it is often necessary to provide a second, or counter-opening, to ensure efficient drainage ; this is more especially necessary when the original opening has not been made at the most dependent point of the abscess cavity. In order to make a counter- opening, a pair of long dressing forceps are inserted into the cavity with the blades closed, passed down to the most dependent point, and then thrust forcibly through the soft parts so that they project beneath the skin. An incision is then made through the skin to expose the points, and the blades are separated and made to grasp a drainage tube, which is pulled through the aperture. The outer end of the tube should be cut off flush with the skin, and stitched to it. This is the simplest plan for securing a drainage tube, and the most certain to keep it in its place if the patient is under an aucesthetic ; if not, it suffices to transfix the end of the drainage tube with a sterilised safety-pin. When the tube is to be stitched to the skin it is well not to push it quite down to the bottom of the cavity because the swelling subsides rapidly, and in twenty-four hours a tube which at first hardly reached the bottom of the cavity may be pushed up considerably, pulling the skin with it. It is sufficient if the tube enters the abscess cavity or any recess that requires drainage. Gauze wicks, which are often recommended, are not nearly so efficient as drainage tubes in the case of abscesses, and, if continued for any length of time, prevent the healing of the wound. The practice, so common nowadays, of tightly packing the opening into an acute abscess should be carefully avoided. It is by no means uncommon for a strip of gauze to be packed tightly into the opening of an abscess cavity, the surgeon being under the impression that it is acting as a capillary drain. Removal of this strip of gauze is followed by a gush of pus which has been dammed up behind it; and it is evident that such a method of treatment has not only not assisted recovery but has actually retarded it ; in such cases the insertion of a drainage tube is usually followed rapidly by beneficial results. When the abscess cavity has contracted down to a sinus, healing is often delayed by the assiduous care with which a long strip of gauze is thrust down to its bottom; this acts as a seton, keeping up inflammation and suppuration, and its mere removal will often be followed by rapid healing of the sinus. The plan of washing out acute abscesses after they have been opened is not to be recommended ; it can do no good whatever in the way of disinfecting the abscess, whilst it is very apt to injm'e the granulation wall, and thus produce a weak spot in which the organisms, which would otherwise die out, can spread. Similarly, any curetting of the cavity is to be strongly deprecated. When, however, the discharge is very foul, irrigation (as recommended below) may be very useful.