TUMOURS OF THE CELLULAR TYPE 245 If the growth be large and occupy the whole thickness of the bone, a free excision of the affected area will suffice ; when the growth is in tlie articular end, a partial excision of tlie joint will be called for. When, however, the growth is small and only occupies a small part of the thick- ness of the bone, so that sufficient bone will be left to bear the weiglit of the body, it is not even necessary to excise ; the growth may be scraped out without much fear of a recurrence, though it is well to take away a thin slice of the wall of the cavity if possible. The prognosis in all these tumours, if left to themselves, is very grave. With the exception of the myeloid sarcomata they are always dangerous to life. The result of operation is more favourable on the whole than in carcinoma, except in the case of melanotic sarcoma and the osteo-sarcomata, which are extremely malignant forms. In the case of the other forms recurrence, though not infrequent, is often only local, and the secondary tumours may be removed again and again as they appear. In all cases a wide sweep must be made, and a considerable amount of the tissues around must be taken away ; there must be no attempt to shell the growth out of its capsule. The treatment for the mixed forms, such as myxo-sarcoma and fibro-sarcoma, is the same as for the others. GENERAL POINTS CONCERNING THE TREATMENT OF MALIGNANT TUMOURS. What has been said above will serve to indicate the main hues of treatment to be adopted for malignant tumours in general. The details of individual operations for the removal of malignant tumours are fully discussed in connection with the various organs and parts of the body in which they occur. But there are a number of points applicable to operations for malignant disease in general to which it is well to refer here. EXPLOBATORY mOISION FOR DIAGNOSIS.—It is not always easy to be certain of the diagnosis, especially when the tumour is deep-seated, and the appropriate operative procedure cannot be undertaken until the nature of the tumour is known. When the tumour is superhcial it is easy to remove a suitable portion of the growth and subject it to microscopical examination. When, however, the growth is more deeply seated, it may be necessary to cut down upon the tumour in order to ascertain its real nature. In making an exploratory incision in a case of suspected malignant disease, the possibility of infecting the wound from the growth and of disseminating the disease must never be lost sight of. To cut through presumably healthy tissues, and then to cut into and remove a portion of a malignant tumour, means that the cells of the malignant growth will certainly be scattered over the surface of the wound and may infect it if the wound be sewn up, as was frequently done at one time.