INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 20 is generally found beneath it; sometimes, however, the skin is merely reddened, or a few small vesicles only are present. In these cases the subsequent application of a fomentation or a poultice will facilitate the formation of the blister. If a drop or two of croton oil be rubbed over the surface of the plaster before application, its effect wiU be considerably enhanced. If, however, the blister does not rise properly in the course of a few hours, painting the skin with the liquor epispasticus and allow- ing it to dry will usually produce a satisfactory result. Some prefer the liquor epispasticus alone, painting it over the part two or three times in succession and allowing it to dry between each appUcation. It must be freshly prepared, as otherwise it is very uncertain in its action. Emp. cantharidis must not be left on too long for fear of causing sloughing of the skin, and the danger that the patient runs of absorbing the drug must be borne in mind; should this happen, there is considerable risk of nephritis. Blisters should not be applied, therefore, over large areas covered by thin skin, and should not be used at all when there is any renal disease. When the inflammation is still active and is affecting the skin or the subcutaneous tissues, the blister should not be applied immediately over the seat of disease, lest it should increase the congestion of the part, and thus augment the inflammation ; it is better to apply it some little distance away. When the inflammation is sub- siding, however, there is not the same objection to applying it directly over the affected area; on the contrary, the increased flow of blood and lymph which is thus set up may be very beneficial. When the inflammation is deeply seated, the best effect is usually got by applying the blister directly over the spot. The actual cautery is a most potent means of producing counter- irritation, and is used either to form one large sore or a number of small ones; the former is probably the more effectual method. In spinal disease, for example, the production of a superficial sore three inches in length and two in breadth, on each side of the spine, wiU often do much good. Similarly, in hip-joint disease, two sores, one in front and one behind the joint, wiU often relieve the acute starting pains from which the patient suffers. Only the superficial part of the skin should be acted on, as it is important that the whole thickness should not be destroyed. In order to produce these large sores effectually, and with- out too much destruction of tissue, it is best to use a fiat, iron cautery under anaesthesia (see Fig. 7). The cautery must be at a bright red heat, for otherwise it is difficult to gauge the amount of destruction of the skin produced. When a cautery is thus used, it suffices to rub it quickly two or three times over the part in order to produce the desired amount of burning. It is only necessary to destroy the epidermis and portions of the rete mucosum, and thus lay bare a large number of the nerve-endings. After the cautery has been applied, poultices or hot fomentations should be used until the slough separates, which will occur