368 DEFORMITIES the case is one of antero-posterior curvature at the lower end of the bone, it may be necessary to divide the fibula as well as the tibia. The bone can be exposed at the requisite spot by a small incision over its outer surface and divided with cutting pliers after the peri- osteum has been separated by a rugine. Removal of portions of the fibula is only called for when the curve is very extreme and the bones will not come straight until the ends of the fibula overlap one another ; enough must then be removed to bring the ends into contact without overlapping. The main factor influencing the choice between Unear osteotomy and A. Simple Transverse Linear Osteotomy. The thick lines show the original position of the bone and the Une of bone section. The dotted ones show the position of the fragments when the bone is straightened. It will be seen that a large gap, which may lead to non-union is left when the curve is marked. B. Cuneiform Osteotomy. It will be seen from the figure how the triangular gap is converted into a linear division when the bone is straightened. C. Oblique Osteotomy. The first figure shows the oblique method applied to a lateral bending of the bone—in this case a curvatvu-e outwards—while the second shows it appUed to an antero-posterior curve, the upper border of the figure being the crest of the tibia. The figures also show the method of rotation after the section has been made. removal of a wedge from the tibia is the degree of curvature present. When this is not very great, linear osteotomy will meet the requirements of the case ; when the curvature is extreme, and especially when it is so acute as to form almost an angle, it is advisable to remove a wedge. This is particularly the case in the antero-posterior curves at the lower end of the bone, in which transverse division of the tibia will not allow the de- formity to be rectified ; the only procedure which makes this feasible is the removal of a wedge with the base directed forwards. In the ordinary bow-legged deformity the base of the wedge removed should of course look outwards. Cuneiform osteotomy of the Tibia.—The operation is performed by making an incision down to the bone along the crest of the tibia over the Fig. 122.—Various Forms of Osteotomy of the Tibia.