CHRONIC INFLAMMATION 17 Among other causes of chronic inflammation may be mentioned the presence of a foreign body; for example, a bullet embedded in the tissues, provided that it has not carried in with it any pyogenic organisms, win set up chronic inflammation in the part, which may last for a con- siderable time after the lodgment of the foreign body. Any obstruction to the free exit of secretion from a gland, as for instance a stricture or a calculus in its duct, brings about retention of the secretion behind the obstruction, and this leads to a chronic inflammation in the gland, which will continue until the obstruction is relieved, or until the gland undergoes atrophy ; these cases, however, are often complicated by the presence of a mild septic infection. Chronic inflammation not infre- quently results also from pressure, and ends in the formation of a quantity of new tissue, as is seen for example in callosities, which, forming in a part, subject it to much pressure. Then, again, various deposits from the blood are responsible for exciting a state of chronic inflammation ; for example, in gout the deposition of urates in the tissues keeps up a condition of chronic inflammation in the neighbourhood of the deposit. In some cases, chronic inflammation seems to be dependent on certain states of the blood, the precise nature of which is not evident ; an example of this is seen in rheumatism, where chronic inflammation of fibrous tissues often occurs, and may continue for a long time. SYMPTOMS.—The most characteristic symptom of chronic in- flammation is the presence of swelling, which is due to the formation of new connective tissue ; thus, for example, a bone which is the seat of chronic inflammation may become enormously thickened. In organs in which there is much soft tissue, such as the liver, the final result of a chronic inflammation may be actual diminution in size, the new con- nective tissue formed undergoing contraction, and leading to atrophy of the normal cells. In most cases, however, swelling is a prominent feature. Of the other symptoms, the pain varies with the situation and is often slight, although in bone it is a marked feature, owing to the compression of the nerves by the exudation in the vmyielding tissues. Some tenderness and heat are almost always present. The increased vascularity of the tissue is often evidenced by the enlargement of the veins on the surface of the swollen part. Constitutional symptoms are not present as a rule ; if they are, it is either because some vital organ is affected, or because they are due to the disease which is setting up the inflammation. In many cases the diagnosis can be cleared up by the microscopical examination of an excised fragment of the swelling. The presence of cells, such as Unna's plasma-cells, in considerable numbers is highly suggestive of the inflammatory nature of the swelling. Plasma-cells occur in normal connective tissue and to a certain extent in the stroma of malignant growths, but usually only in comparatively small numbers, and in these cases their presence or absence should always