ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 211 is also frequently alopecia, due eitlicr to simple malnutrition of the hair caused by syphiUs, or resulting from pustular syphilides of the scalp ; in the former case it is temporary, the hair growing again as the patient re- covers ; in the latter, the loss of hair may be permanent. Periostitis may also occur, and may lead to permanent bony formations or nodes if it be left untreated. Iritis and other rarer affections are also met with in the secondary period. During the course of syphilis the general health is often markedly affected, especially during the early secondary period, when the patient becomes pale, weak, and cachectic, and the red blood corpuscles are diminished in number and lose a considerable proportion of their haemoglobin At this stage too there is often marked pyrexia. Tertiary Stage.—Following the secondary stage come the pheno- mena spoken of as lesions of ' Tertiary Syphilis ' ; these may follow immediately upon those of the secondary stage, or they may occur before the latter reaches its termination. Usually, however, they do not appear until a considerable interval has elapsed, the patient having enjoyed many years of apparently i)erfect health in the meantime. They usually take the form of gummata or fibrosis in the various tissues and organs, or obstinate ulcerations of the skin or mucous membranes. In the later stages of syphilis numerous affections of the central nervous system occur. These have been termed parasyphilitic lesions, as they are not accompanied with the formation of definite gummata. Locomotor ataxia and general paralysis of the insane are generally held to be of this nature. TREATMENT.—From the point of view of prophylaxis it is well to enumerate some of the chief sources and modes of contagion of syphilis ; the prophylaxis will obviously consist in avoiding them. The most common source of infection is perhaps the secretion from the primary sore, but a potent factor in the spread of the disease is the discharge from secondary lesions, such as mucous patches and condylomata ; the blood also is infective during the secondary stage, and this infectivity is at its height when syphilitic manifestations are actually present. The usual mode of contagion is by sexual connection, but kissing is also a means of spreading the disease when secondary symptoms are present in the mouth or throat ; in suckling also, infection may be conveyed from child to nurse or vice versa. Simple sores on the fingers of medical men may also become inoculated ; in the Jewish rite of circumcision infection has also occurred. Infection may be conveyed by vaccination, should the blood of a syphilitic infant contaminate the vaccine lymph ; lastly, the disease may be communicated through the medium of infected utensils, such as cups, spoons, pipes, toys, etc., which have been used by those suffering from secondary syphilis. When a person has been exposed to the risk of having the organisms deposited upon any part of tlie body, a careful disinfection of the area with a mercurial lotion should be carried out, followed by the application of a