TETANUS 203 the drug, as has undoubtedly happened, but usually the amount men- tioned can be administered in the course of twenty-four hours without risk ; when there is inability to swallow, it may be administered by the rectum. Since the slightest noise or disturbance is likely to bring on a spasm, the patient should be completely isolated in a thickly carpeted room, and complete silence should be maintained ; it is well to wrap all the exposed portions of the body in cotton-wool, so as to avoid irritation to the surface of the skin from the impact of cold air, etc. When the spasms are very severe and threaten to produce dangerous hyperpyrexia, or to cause death from obstruction to the respiration, chloroform should be administered. The spasm rapidly subsides under the influence of the anaesthetic, and repeated administrations may be called for in bad cases. When the patient is unable to swallow, advantage should be taken of the administration of the anaesthetic to introduce suitable nourishment into the stomach by means of a stomach-tube ; the opportunity may also be taken to give a nutrient enema. Morphine, in doses of one-sixth of a grain, may also be given subcutaneously every three or four hours ; but among drugs the chief reliance is to be placed on chloral and chloroform. When hyperpyrexia occurs, the temperature should be reduced by sponging with tepid water or by cold wet packing. The former of these methods is preferable, as cold water is apt to set up a spasm. Should sponging fail to reduce the temperature, it will be necessary to have recourse to wet packing, which is done as follows. A mackintosh is put under the patient, who is then wrapped up in a sheet wrung out of iced water. A blanket is thrown over him and he is left in the wet pack for from five to fifteen minutes. Then the sheet and the mackintosh are removed, and the patient is dried and covered with the bedclothes. Diet.—The strength should be kept up as far as possible by proper nourishment ; the great majority of cases in which the patient cannot swallow end fatally. If the patient cannot swallow, and especially if the attempts to do so produce convulsions, it is necessary to resort to rectal feeding ; care must be taken, however, to disturb the patient as little as possible in introducing the food into the rectum. For this purpose zyminised suppositories are of great value ; one should be intro- duced every four hours, and a two ounce beef-tea enema should be given every two hours after the suppository ; it is best to peptonise it before it is introduced. Later on in the disease, when the patient is becoming exhausted, it may be necessary to add stimulants to the enemata. Watch should be kept to see that the urine is passed, for the bladder is apt to become distended ; the bowel should be washed out with an injection of warm water from time to time. Above all things, care should be taken to avoid all sudden movements, and to be as gentle as possible in handling the patient.