448 ANESTHETICS Chronic lung trouble (bronchitis or emphysema . . . Mixture all through. Organic heart disease . . If insufficiently compensated (pulmonary oedema, anasarca, albumen, etc.). Mix- ture, or chloroform. If fully compen- sated, ether permissible. Marked Atheroma . . . Induce with Mixture ; add a little ether if the operation be a prolonged one. Renal Disease . . . Mixture all through. Alcoholics take all anaesthetics badly. In acute or advanced cases it is, perhaps, better to commence with Mixture, and gradually increase the proportion of ether as the case proceeds. (5) Nature of the Operation.—^To a great extent, the influence of the nature of the operation upon the choice of the anaesthetic must be largely determined by the opinion of the surgeon upon the subject. It is, therefore, a point of no little importance that the latter should have complete confidence in the administrator. The careful selection of the administrator is a question of the greatest moment, and not to be dis- missed lightly ; to take any one that offers is very unjust to the patient, and accounts for many of the troubles and fatalities which are from time to time recorded. Operations upon the head and neck Mixture to induce, increasing the pro- portion of ether in long operations. Intra-cranial operations . . Chloroform or Mixture all through. Operations upon the tongue and mouth ..... Induce with Mixture ; change for chloro- form directly operation commenced. Operations on big joints . . Always ether, if possible. Abdominal operations . . Often do well with ether, but chloro- form or Mixture generally preferred by surgeons. Rectal and genito-urinary opera- tions ..... Always ether, if possible. In practice, the choice of the anaesthetic may be quickly determined by adopting a process of exclusion, taking the different substances in the order of their relative strength, as given on p. 446. ADMINISTRATION OF NITROUS OXIDE. Ppoperties.—The chemical constitution of Nitrous Oxide is sufficiently indicated by the formula NoO. It is a gas, but is usually sold in a highly compressed, liquid form, in steel or iron bottles (Fig. 197, A). The gas, when pure, should be quite colourless, of a slightly sweetish taste and odour, and unirritating to the air passages. It is a feeble anaesthetic, and is usually given without any admixture with air, i.e. 100% of the vapour. When sufficient skill has been attained in the use of Nitrous Oxide in the ordinary way, it wiU be found advantageous to allow the admixture of small quantities of air during its inhalation, but this requires much practice.