INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 24 twenty minutes is sufficient; but there may be two sittings daily, morning and evening, after three or four days, if distinct benefit results, and the length of the sittings may be increased to three-quarters of an hour or an hour as time goes on. The length of time required for a cure depends entirely on the nature of the case and the progress made ; except in extensive and obstinate cases, three weeks generally suffice. Massage is especially useful after inflammations which cause adhesion either between muscles, or between tendons and their sheaths, or in joints or in any situation in which much thickening is left after inflammation or injury. An efficient substitute for ordinary massage can be found in what might be called automatic massage. For example, in a sprain of the ankle it is often a good practice to strap the joint firmly. If the strapping be confined to the immediate neighbourhood of the joint, it will be pro- ductive of nothing but discomfort; the limb will swell around the strap- ping, which will cut into the leg, and may give rise to unpleasant sores. If, however, the strapping be carried well beyond the joint on both sides —in the ankle, for example—from the base of the toes to the knee, so as to encase the whole of the leg and foot in a comparatively rigid shell, every movement of the muscles will squeeze the lymph and venous blood from their interstices, and the extension of the strapping up the leg will carry the effusion into the region where the vascular and lymphatic arrange- ments are normal. The strapping should be carefully applied in narrow strips about an inch wide, overlapping about one-third of their width, and the limb should be shaved before strapping. With a strapping applied in this way, there is no necessity to confine the patient to bed or the couch ; indeed, it is only by using the limb that the strapping can exert its proper effect, for the massaging action can only take place when the muscles within the casing are moving and altering in shape. The patient, there- fore, should be allowed to use the limb freely. Over-use is harmful, but the presence of the strapping is in itself usually sufficient to restrain the patient from this indiscretion. General Treatment.—In chronic inflammation the constitutional treatment depends rather on the disease which is the cause of the process than on the process itself. It is essential that the patient should be under the best possible hygienic conditions, and that he should have plenty of nourishing food ; when the patient is wealdy, stimulants will be necessary. If required, the usual remedies for gout, rheumatism, syphilis, etc., must be employed. Iodide of potassium and mercury in small doses are administered in some cases of chronic inflammation not due to syphilis, but, as a rule, they do not then produce any marked effect.