WOUNDS 194 sponge the granulations with undiluted carbolic acid before scraping them away, so as to get rid of organisms lying upon the surface which might be carried by the sharp spoon into the deeper tissues ; after the granulations have been removed, the raw surface left should be swabbed over again with the undiluted acid. The wound should then be packed with cyanide gauze sprinkled with iodoform, or with iodoform gauze, and a gauze and wool dressing applied outside. The pacldng is renewed daily at first, and then at longer intervals, if the case does well. When a fresh layer of granulations has sprung up, the packing may be discon- tinued, a large drainage-tube placed in the wound so as to make sure that the discharge escapes freely, and a stitch or two inserted when the wound is large. If the patient survive, and external abscesses develop, they must be opened early and drained freely. When suppuration occurs in joints, the latter must be opened freely and drained efficiently ; this point is dealt with fully in connection with the affections of joints. Further details as to local treatment in special cases will be found in connection with pyaemia after acute osteomyelitis. When there is no wound, and the pysemia has started from a suppurative periphlebitis, the vein must be exposed well on the proximal side of the thrombus as far from the affected spot as is judicious, tied in two places, and divided between the ligatures. An incision must then be made over the seat of the inflammation, the pus around the vein evacuated, and the part containing the thrombus excised, a ligature being placed on the distal portion of the vein. If it be impossible to excise the vein, it should be opened, and the clot removed by scraping and irrigation, the wound being then packed with gauze wrung out of an antiseptic (i in 2000 perchloride of mercury). Any branch that is patent should be also ligatured and divided. It is very important not to be content with simply tying the main vein, because the septic clot may spread to other veins and thus get into the circulation again. General.-^Amongst drugs, the greatest rehance is placed on quinine. In most cases it is well to begin with fifteen to twenty grains of sulphate of quinine, and to follow it up after four hours with five- to ten-grain doses every four hours, for twenty-four to forty-eight hours, in spite of symptoms of cinchonism. Salicylate of soda (twenty grains every three hours) may also be used, but the patient should be watched for signs of salicylate poisoning. Sulpho-carbolates have been suggested with the idea that carbolic acid would be liberated in the blood, and would help to destroy the organisms there ; as a matter of fact, however, the amount of carbolic acid that could be thus liberated would have no effect, and in practice the sulpho-carbolates are useless. Antipyretic measures must be employed when the temperature is unusually high, because the patient may die of the hyperpyrexia after a rigor. Phenacetin in five- or ten-grain doses is perhaps the safest of the antipyretic drugs, and it may be repeated every hour if necessary, the