WOUNDS i8o Therefore there is more granulation tissue formed, and greater subse- quent contraction. When the slough is situated over a joint or a serous cavity, and there is reason to fear that either may be opened when the slough separates, special care must be taken in the antiseptic management of the case, because, should the part become septic, there may be acute suppuration of the articular or the serous cavity. In the Fifth and Sixth Degrees the treatment is only of importance when the burn affects the extremities ; if it be situated elsewhere, the patient usually dies at once. Should a burn of these degrees occur upon the skull or part of the trunk, however, and should the patient survive, the aim of the surgeon must be to render and keep the part aseptic, to support the patient's strength, and to wait until the slough separates ; then, if no vital part be involved, the defect will be gradually filled up with granulations, and a time will come when skin-grafting can be employed. In the extremities, however, the question of primary amputation arises, when the tissues down to and including the bone are completely charred, or when only the fifth degree is reached, and the tissues are destroyed over a large area. This question must be answered in the affirmative when the extremity is hopelessly destroyed ; the only points for discussion are as to when and where the amputation should be performed. As a rule it is best to wait until the shock has passed off, for if amputation be performed before this, as is frequently the case, the shock is apt to be mach increased, and to bring about a fatal result. In the majority of cases it is quite safe to wait for from twelve to twenty-four hours, if the part be roughly disinfected and wrapped up in an antiseptic dressing ; when the shock has been recovered from, at any rate jiartly, amputation may be proceeded with, taking care to employ all the measures calculated to prevent or minimise shock (see p. ii8). Spinal analgesia here finds one of its most useful apphcations. In determining the level at which to amputate it must be remembered that it is not necessary to go far above the actually charred tissue; there is certainly no need to go above the region of the erythema. If the part be kept aseptic this congestion will subside without leading to any trouble during the healing of the stump ; special attention must be devoted to the purification of the skin in the region of the amputation. EFFECTS OF INTENSE COLD. The local effects of intense cold in some respects resemble those of heat. The parts chiefly affected are those most distant from the heart, such as the toes and the fingers (especially the great toe and the little finger), the nose and the ears. Moist cold is more likely to do harm than dry, and when there is wind, frostbite is much more likely to occur