CONTUSIONS AND CONTUSED WOUNDS 169 made in order to gain proper access to the wound should be stitched up, and a small drainage-tube inserted at the seat of puncture. The puncture would seldom heal by first intention if the edges were brought together throughout, and therefore it is well to leave an opening in case sepsis should occur, as it is impossible to be certain that all septic material has been destroyed. CONTUSIONS AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. A Contusion is a severe bruising of the tissues unaccompanied by rupture of the skin. The parts subjected to the bruising are more or less torn, and haemorrhage occurs into them, so that if a contused area be opened up, it is found to be partly torn and partly infiltrated with blood- clot. When the skin is torn at the same time, a contused wound, is pro- duced, and this is characterised by irregularity of the rent in the skin and raggedness of the edges, which are much bruised and infiltrated with blood ; the deeper parts of the wound and the parts around are also bruised and bloody. Causes.—Contused wounds are caused by crushes, run-over accidents, bites, gunshot injuries, and the like. As a rule there is not much bleeding, the vessels being torn and blocked; there is often great pain, and the healing of the wound is always slow. Should septic infection occur, there will be suppuration and sloughing of portions of the contused tissues ; if the wound remain aseptic, healing of the deeper parts takes place by blood-clot, and this is naturally a prolonged process. Treatment.—In the case of a simple contusion, the first object is to prevent any increase in the haemorrhage that has already taken place. If the contusion be large, an icebag, or, if small, an evaporating lotion (see p. 9) should be applied for the first eight or ten hours ; the limb or the affected part should be kept at rest, upon a splmt if necessary, in the elevated position. As soon as it is evident that no fresh effusion is going on, the indication is to promote the absorption of that already poured out, and for this purpose a firm starch and cotton-wool bandage is very efficacious (see p. 23). When the bulk of the effused blood has been absorbed, the disappearance of the remainder is greatly facilitated by careful massage (see p. 23). When the damage to the muscle is severe, appropriate treatment must be adopted for this (see Injuries of Muscles). The treatment of a contused wound is directed primarily towards securing asepsis ; the tissues are so much damaged by the injury, and so much blood is extravasated into them, that they are liable to become the seat of severe septic inflammation, even though the organisms that have gained access to the wound be not very virulent. As a first step, free access must be provided to the deeper parts, and for this purpose the skin wound must be enlarged, if necessary, so that the whole wound can