INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 44 cases the granulations become prominent, vascular, soft, and bleed readily, and the condition is popularly known as ' proud flesh.' Diphtheritic and Phagedenic Ulcer.—Any ulcer may be attacked by some specific virus, such as that of diphtheria or that which produces phagedena. In the latter case its surface becomes covered with a greyish, pulpy material which rapidly infiltrates the surrounding skin and cellular tissue, extends both superficially and deeply, leads to extensive and very rapid destruction and constitutional infection, and not uncommonly ends in the death of the patient. Varicose Ulcer.—This is a type of ulcer which originates in connection with varicose veins, especially when the smaller veins of the skin are affected. This condition leads to imperfect nutrition of the skin, and to the occurrence of either a local dermatitis (' varicose eczema ') or a periphlebitis ending in the formation of a smaU abscess around the vein ; the abscess bursts, and gives rise to an ulcer. In the case of the eczematous ulcer, the patient usually scratches the irritable part and produces a wound which becomes inflamed and rapidly develops into an ulcer. However produced, these varicose ulcers are usually small and superficial at first, with oedema around and with soft, prominent, and somewhat oedematous granulations. They are often situated immediately over one of the enlarged veins, and the ulcerative process occasionally extends through the wall of the vessel itself. In this way a severe hcemorrhage may occur. If the patient continues to walk about, the condition gradually passes into that of—• Callous Ulcer.—As a result of the continued interference with the venous return, local cedema takes place ; there is exudation of coagulable lymph in the interstices of the cellular tissue, and cells accumulate there. The result is that the arterioles are pressed upon, and the nutrition of the sore is interfered with. The exuded material coagulates, and becomes organised to a considerable extent and hence the skin and subcutaneous tissues around the ulcer become thickened, so that finally the surface of the ulcer is on a considerably lower plane than its edge; this is not really due to extension of the ulcer in depth, but to the elevation of the surrounding parts owing to the great thickening Thus, the characteristics of a callous ulcer are : a sore at a deeper level than the surrounding skin, an indurated condition of the base and of the surrounding parts, and a surface of a pale yellow colour devoid of granulation, and secreting a small quantity of thin fluid. These ulcers are found almost exclusively among the labouring class, who are unable to obtain the rest necessary for their cure. Haemorrhagic Ulcer.—This form of ulcer occurs especially in patients suffering from scurvy ; the surface of the sore is red, swollen, and bleeds readily, and the blood sometimes coagulates on the surface, forming a firm clot which has been likened to ' bullock's liver.' Pressure Ulcer.—This form of ulcer occurs in the sole of the foot,