LACERATED WOUNDS 171 always to some extent contused wounds, and a contused wound may also be a lacerated one. Treatment.—The patient should be put under a general anaesthetic, all tags clipped away, and the skin and the soft parts thoroughly scrubbed with a nail-brush and strong mixture, or even sponged with undiluted carbolic acid should there be marked soiling of the wound. It is useless to stitch the torn skin together ; at most one or two stitches should be inserted in order to keep the flaps somewhat in position. Tension must be avoided; it would certainly lead to sloughing of the flaps, as their vitality is already much interfered with. Gauze dressings should be used at first ; should suppuration and much local disturbance occur, recourse must be had to irrigation with weak Condy's fluid, hydrogen peroxide, or sanitas solutions. Many of these wounds, however, will heal by blood-clot if they be small and be rendered aseptic by the purifica- tion described above ; at any rate, the greater part will heal in this manner, though possibly after a time granulation may occur towards the centre of the wound from the irritation of the dressing. When the wound is aseptic, there will be comparatively little separation of sloughs either from the skin or from the deeper parts, the aseptic slough, like a blood-clot, acting as a mould in which new material is formed. When much skin is torn off an extremity, the question of amputation arises. When, for instance, the whole skin of the forearm has been lost, the wound often does not heal at all on account of its large size or, if it does, so much contraction results that the movements of the joints are permanently interfered with, the result in bad cases being so unsatisfactory that amputation is often considered the best practice. It is well, however, to bear in mind that many of these cases can be got to heal by skin-grafting, and a very useful limb may result, so that the former rule of amputating in all cases of extensive loss of skin does not apply universally at the present time. In many cases extensive wounds can be induced to heal without any marked contraction bv allowing the wound to granulate, and then applj'ing Thiersch's skin-grafts (see p. 54) before contraction has taken place, after scraping away the soft granula- tion tissue whicli has akeady formed. Amputation can always be performed later on should it be found that, after all, the functional result is not satisfactory. Even after skin-grafting has been employed, efforts must be made to counteract the great tendency to contraction during healing by the careful application of splints. For example, in the case of loss of skin and fascia at the bend of the elbow, the arm must be kept extended upon an anterior splint ; when the loss is about the back of the hand the fingers should be flexed during the healing process, the principle being that, if contraction be likely to occur in a certain direction, it is best counteracted by fixing the limb on a sphnt bent in the opposite direction. It must also be borne in mind that the tendency of the scar