241 TUMOURS OF THE CELLULAR TYPE Treatment.—The treatment is to shell them out of their capsule. In certain positions—e.g. in the rectum or oesophagus—adenomata become polypoid, and are dragged downwards by their weight, pushing the mucous membrane before them. In these cases the polypoid growth is cut off after ligature of the pedicle to arrest the l^leeding. MALIGNANT FORMS.—The second great group of epithelial growths is formed by the carcinomata, in which the epithelium grows in an irregular manner ; the cells are larger than the ordinary epithelial ones from which they originate, and the growths infiltrate the tissues and are not encapsuled. Carcinomata.—The carcinomata differ in malignancy and rapidity of growth according to their situation, to the character of the ei:)ithelium in connection with which they grow, and to other circumstances with which we are not well acquainted. The carcinomata which spring from the surface epithelium are generally spoken of as epitheliomata, and this class includes squamous epithelioma, and rodeiii ulcer, growing from the skin, and tlie cylindrical epitheliomata, springing from the intestinal canal, etc. Those which originate from glandular epithelium are termed the carcinomata proper. The carcinomata proper also form several groups. There is a very soft kind formerly called encepJialoid cancer, in which the cells are numerous and the fibrous tissue small in amount. They usually grow rapidly and may be very malignant. In marked contrast to these is the atrophic scirrhus, in which the cells atrophy quickly, and the growth contains a large amount of fibrous tissue with only few alveoli and cellular elements. These tumours grow extremely slowly and never attain any great size. Intermediate between these two extremes are all gradations. Mode of Spread.—The essential growing element in the carcino- mata is the epithelial cell, and the character of the growth depends upon the mode in which these cells spread. The epithelial cells are usually found enclosed in tubular spaces termed alveoli, which are prob- ably dilated and much altered lymph spaces ; at any rate they com- municate freely \^■ith the lymphatics. The cells are evidently derived from the normal epithelium of the part in which the disease primarily begins, but they soon multiply independently and show active processes of growth. They rapidly push their way through the limiting membrane of the normal epithelium into the tissues around, and there spread in the lymph spaces and channels ; at the same time it would appear that they attack the walls of the smaller veins, and spread into their interior at an early period, although metastatic deposits, due to infection through the blood-vessels, seldom show themselves clinically until late in the course of the disease. After spreading into the lymphatic vessels, the cells become detached and carried with the lymph stream, and either become arrested in I. R