207 ADHERENT CICATRIX TREATMBISTT.—The only satisfactory treatment is to dissect out the scar, cutting well into the healthy tissues at the sides, so as to remove not only the entangled nerve ends which may have already become bulbous, but also the adjacent and probably inflamed portions. When there is a broad scar and the edges of the wound cannot be brought together after excision, skin-grafting (see p. 54) or some suitable plastic operation is indicated. ADHERENT CICATRIX. A scar may be adherent to the tissues beneath, and may thus become a source of great trouble to the patient; besides which, these scars are often weak and ulcerate readily. For example, the scar resulting from a sore over the tibia may become fixed to the bone, and is then liable to undergo ulceration after injuries which would not affect it were it freely movable. The same is also the case with scars over the ends of bones after amputation ; should they become adherent to the bone, the dis- comfort and pain they cause is extreme, and it is therefore one of the essentials of a good stump that the scar should not be adherent to the end of the bone. TREATMEISTT.—In cases of adherent cicatrix after amputation, the obvious remedy is to open up the flaps, release the adhesions, and remove a slice of the bone, if necessary. When an ordinary scar is adherent to such structures as bones, tendons, or muscles, an attempt may be made to divide it with a tenotomy knife introduced through the skin at the margin of the scar. Generally, however, it is best to dissect out the scar altogether, and then to turn in a flap from the side so as to cover the raw surface thus made ; the surface from which the flap is taken may be skin-grafted (see p. 54) if its edges cannot be brought together. This is preferable to grafting directly over bone, to which the grafts might in their turn become adherent. In some of these cases it has been suggested that sections of the underlying bone should be remo\ ed, so as to shorten the limb and relieve the tension on the wound left after ex- cision of the scar, so that its edges can be brought together. Although this operation has been practised more than once, it can only be called for in extreme cases ; the method just described will suffice for the majority. EPITHELIOMA. Scars which form adhesions to the deeper parts, or which are con- stantly in a state of irritation, are very apt to become the seat of malignant growths, more particularly epithelioma, as the patient gets older. Perhaps the most common seats of epitheliomata in the extremities are an old