509 THE WASSERMANN REACTION (sufficient being obtained from an ordinary puncture of the finger or ear-lobe) and in skilled hands it yields trustworthy results. It is based on the phenomenon known as the ' absorption of com- plement ' and discovered by Bordet and Gengou. To understand this it is necessary to be familiar with the terms ' antigen ' and antibody.' An antigen is a substance (apparently invariably of proteid nature) which, when injected into an animal in which it does not occur naturally, gives rise to the production of a second substance, its antibody. Thus diph- theria toxin is an antigen, its antibody being diphtheria antitoxin. Solutions of coagulable proteids (blood-serum, etc.) act as antigens, giving rise to precipitins: bacteria, red-blood corpuscles and other cells are antigens which give rise to a series of antibodies, amongst which are agglutinins and cytolysins. These latter are substances of much importance in regard to the Wassermann reaction. They are antibodies which have the power of dissolving their antigens (or rather the cells containing them) on condition that a third substance is present and that the three bodies are kept at, or near, the temperature of the body. This third substance is caUed coraplement or alexin, and it is not an antibody; it occurs in normal blood-serum and is supposed to play a part of great importance in preserving the body against infections. It differs from the antibodies in being thermolabile, i.e. it is destroyed at a temperature of 55° C. in half an hour or at 60° C. in ten minutes. Let us take an example of the action of these substances. If normal rabbit's serum be mixed with sheep's corpuscles (thoroughly washed in normal saline solution by repeated centrifugalisations) and incubated, no action takes place. If, however, the rabbit be injected once or twice at intervals of a few days with these washed corpuscles, it acquires fresh properties ; and if the experiment be repeated, using the serum of this ' immunised ' rabbit, it will be seen that this has a solvent action on the sheep's corpuscles ; in the former case the latter will settle to the bottom of the tube, leaving a colourless supernatant layer of normal saline solu- tion, whilst in the latter they will be dissolved and yield a crimson solution, in which practically no deposition of undissolved material takes place. That this new solvent property depends upon the action of two substances, an antibody formed as the result of the injection, and com- plement, occurring in normal serum, is provable thus : the serum from the immunised animal is heated to 55° C. for half an hour, so as to destroy the complement, and then incubated with the washed corpuscles; no solution takes place. A little fresh serum from a normal (unimmunised) rabbit is then added, and the mixture re-incubated, when solution occurs. This shows that the heated serum of an immunised animal is in itself powerless to effect solution ; we have seen previously that fresh normal serum is equally unable, but the two together can do so. Further experi- ments show that the antibody (which is also known as amboceptor, immune