GANGRENE 79 results. This method, however, should not be employed except when the condition is grave, as with it septic complications are not at all unlikely to occur. Whenever it appears imperative to relieve the local con- gestion, we should prefer to use scarifications- (after the skin has been rigorously purified) followed by warm fomentations to encourage bleeding. General Treatment.—Much may be done to prevent recurrence by attention to the general health. Warm clothing and avoidance of cold are of prime importance ; only second in importance to these are nourish- ing food and regular daily exercise. If there be a marked hysterical condition, the patient may be treated by massage and careful feeding, combined with isolation, as recommended by Weir Mitchell. Apart from this, some drugs seem to be of benefit, although there is apparently none that can be looked upon as having any specific effect upon the affection. Chief among these is opium, which is useful in some cases. Possibly it may allay the spasm to a certain extent ; at any rate it calms the agonising pain that is often present. Quinine in doses of four grains three times a clay is also of use both constitutionally and for the local condition. If there be pronounced anaemia, iron and nvsenic may be administered, the former as Blaud's preparation in capsules of five to ten grains three times a day, the latter in the form of Fowler's solution, beginning with a dose of three drops upon a piece of sugar taken three times a day, and gradually increased until twelve or fifteen minims are taken at a time. Nitrite of amyl, nitro-glycerine and nitrite of sodium have been recommended from a theoretical consideration of their action, but apparently without any marked benefit. Any uterine or ovarian trouble present should receive appropriate treatment. When actual sloughing has taken place, the treatment already described for dry gan- grene must be carried out, antiseptic dressings being used, and the part allowed to dry up. .Xmputation is rarely necessary. Gangrene due to General Causes.—This form of indirect gangrene is in some ways the most important of all. Three varieties may be men- tioned, namely [a) gangrene in connection with diabetes, (6) gangrene after acute fevers, and (c) gangrene following the use of ergot. Diabetic Gangrene.—There are two ways in wliich diabetes may be related to gangrene. First, there is the death of the part chrectly dependent upon the presence of diabetes, or the true ' diabetic gangrene ' ; second, there is gangrene from some other cause taking place in a patient who has glycosuria. The presence of glycosuria affects the progress of the gangrene in a marked degree ; it spreads with greater rapidity, there is more inflammation around the gangrenous part, and the gangrene, if dry at first, soon becomes moist. The patient generally ches either of some septic complication—such as a rapidly-spreading diffuse cellulitis or a general septicaemia—or of cUabetic coma, either following operation or occurring independently. Sometimes the gangrenous process is slow and the patient dies of exhaustion.