DEFORMITIES 340 After-treatment.—After the operation the wound is stitched up without a drainage tube and the foot is put up on a sphnt with the toes markedly pointed for about six weeks until bony union is complete, when the patient may walk about wearing the boot already described (see p. 336). By Muscle and Tendon Transplantation.—This subject has attracted considerable attention, and may well be considered here, since it was for the relief of a case of paralytic talipes calcaneus that Nicoladoni performed the first operation of the kind in 1882. Since that time the principle has been applied to various paralytic deformities with enough success to warrant the procedure taking a permanent place in the surgery of paralysis. The method has for its object the assumption of the functions of a paralysed muscle by a neighbouring healthy one. This may be done either by the attachment of the tendon of a paralysed muscle to part or the whole of a. tendon of a neighbouring healthy muscle or by trans- planting the insertion of a healthy muscle to the insertion of a paralysed one. Thus, in the case of talipes calcaneus the tendo Achillis may be attached to the peroneus longus when the latter muscle is not paralysed, and thereby the healthy peroneus is made to assume the functions of the paralysed calf-muscles. The peroneus longus might also be trans- planted directly into the os calcis if desired. The rectification of the deformity is thus effected by muscular agency and not by spUnts. The method should not be practised until it is certain that no further recovery of function will occur in the affected muscle or group of muscles ; therefore at least two years should be allowed to elapse between the onset of the paralysis and the performance of the operation, for extensive recovery may occur under suitable conditions even in the most unpromis- ing cases. During this time also it is essential that the limb should be in such a position as to relieve the paralysed muscles of all undue strain. Asepsis is essential for success ; it is important to choose muscles that will undergo the least alteration in direction in the process of trans- plantation. The incision must be so arranged that the line of union in the tendon does not coincide anywhere with that in the skin. The limb should be put up so that there is no strain put upon the union between the anastomosed tendons ; finally the transplanted muscle has to be exercised gradually to perform its new functions and to bear the new strains thrown upon it. Too much must not be expected from this method ; when properly performed in suitable cases, however, so much improvement may follow that splints or special apparatus may be dis- pensed with. In deciding upon the particular form of transplantation that he will adopt, the surgeon must be guided by the extent and distribution of the paralysis, but he should always try to work with muscles whose functions are similar, although this is not essential, as a muscle can be re-educated and extensors can quite well become flexors. He should never transplant