133 TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS The conditions which favour healing by first intention have already- been referred to (see p. 128) ; of these, the absolutely essential one is asepsis of the wound ; in addition to this, however, care has to be taken to bring the cut surfaces of the wound into accurate apposition. Besides this, causes of unrest, such as movement, irritation by the dressings, etc., must be avoided. Aioposition of the Edges.—The cutsurfacesof the wound must be in accurate apposition ; if not, an interval is left which becomes filled with blood-clot, and although healing by blood-clot will occur if the wound be aseptic, it is not so good as union by first intention. When the edges of the wound are brought into apposition, the two should be on the same level. If one be higher than the other to a very slight extent it will not matter, except in so far that the subsequent cicatrix will not be a fine delicate line, but will show a definite ridge. If, however, there be A B F'G- 33-—Faulty Method of Suturing a Wound.—In A the suture Is in place ; it causes the skin on one side to overlap that on the other. In B is seen the gap left when the suture is removed. any marked difference in level between the edges, and especially if the raw surface of the one side be in contact with the cutaneous surface of the other, healing of the overlapping raw surface may not take place although the deeper parts will unite satisfactorily. Epithehum will not spread over a raw surface which is lying in contact with epithelium- covered skin; and in such a case it is necessary, in order to obtain healing, to pare away the inverted or overlapped edge of the skin, and thus to have two raw surfaces opposed to each other. Approximation of the Deeper Structures.—When a wound has to be closed, its deeper parts must be approximated as well as its cutaneous edges. For this purpose some surgeons employ deep stitches, and then put in superficial ones to bring the skin together; this, however, is hardly necessary in the great majority of cases. By properly applied pressure outside the wound (see p. 151) it is generally possible to bring the deeper parts sufficiently together, and then stitches need only be employed for the approximation of the edges of the skin. In some cases, however, deep stitches may be required ; for example, when the incision has been carried through dense fibrous tissue, as in excising a portion of the breast, a cavity may be left which will fill with blood-clot unless the deeper parts