328 DEFORMITIES the latter is carried downwards over it; in this way the strapping and the bandage are firmly fastened to the skin of the thigh. Should the strapping slip, as it generally does after two or three days, a second bandage applied over the old one and carried down rather further below the patella will keep it taut. The patient should be encouraged to walk wearing this apparatus ; leverage is exerted upon the ankle joint as the patient walks, as the sphnt is longer than the foot, and the latter is bent far more effectually than if a boot were worn. The apparatus leaves the calf muscles free, and massage can be applied to them; it generally requires to be renewed about once a week. After about six weeks, more vigorous exercises should be commenced and carried out while the patient is wearing the splint just described. The following is of considerable value. The patient stands up- right, the heels together, and the soles flat on the ground, and he then sinks downward, flexing the knees and hips until he is able to touch the ground with the tips of the fingers, when he again resumes the upright position. This should be done a dozen times in suc- cession, and repeated several times during the day. At the same time massage and gal- vanism should be applied to the calf muscles. After about eight weeks from the operation it is well to employ a surgical boot, furnished with lateral irons attached to a band passing around the upper part of the leg, and made with a hinge opposite the ankle joint, fitted with a stop to prevent the foot being plantar- flexed beyond the right angle. It is well to have the sole of this boot made somewhat longer than the foot, for it then acts in a manner similar to the splint described above, and exerts a greater leverage than if it were the exact length of the foot. This boot is more sightly and convenient than the splint, and may with advantage be fitted with a spring which tends to keep the toes raised and the heel depressed (see Fig. 105); this is especially necessary when the calf muscles were much contracted prior to tenotomy. Fig, 105.'—Boot for use after Tenotomy of the Tendo AcniLLis. The dotted line shows the position the boot tends to assume when the foot is off the ground ; it thus continuously stretches the tendo Achillis. The boot should be made a good deal longer than the foot, and it should have a stop at the ankle-joint hinge to prevent the toes being pointed. (Hoffa.)