228 CHAPTER XII. TUBERCULOSIS. Tuberculosis is an infective disease, due to the growth of the tubercle bacillus in the tissues. The affection is characterised by the formation of nodules or tubercles tending to run together, break down and caseate, and to destroy the structures in which they are situated. SEATS.—The most frequent seat of tuberculosis is, perhaps, the lymphatic glands, more particularly those of the cervical, bronchial, and mesenteric regions. Another common seat of the affection is the peri- osteum, and the cancellous tissue at the ends of bones. Tuberculous lesions are frequently met with in the synovial and serous mem- branes ; they may also occur in various internal organs, such as the lungs, the kidneys, the prostate, etc. In fact, a tuberculous lesion may occur wherever there is connective tissue and a suitable spot for the growth of the bacillus after it has gained access to the body. ACCESSORY FACTORS. — Although the tubercle bacillus is the essential cause of tuberculosis, a number of accessory factors are con- cerned in the production of the disease ; without their concurrence the affection often would not occur. These accessory causes may be local or general. Local.—Among local factors injury plays an important part as a predisposing and, sometimes, as an exciting cause of the tuberculous lesions ; this is most frequently the case in tuberculosis of bones and joints. It is important to note that the injury must be a mild one ; a severe one, such as a fracture, does not usually lead to the deposit of tubercle in the damaged part, probably because the processes of repair are then so active that the bacillus cannot cope with them. A slight injury, on the other hand, particularly one in the nature of a sprain, weakens the tissues without leading to any marked cell-exudation, and the bacilli then seem able to obtain a good footing in them. Exposure to cold probably also acts in this way, and, when the bacilli are already present in the body, it leads to their deposit in the part subjected to the