236 TUBERCULOSIS before Lister comraenced his work, has been revived of late years, and though not so efficient as the method just described, possesses the advan- tage that there is less risk of sepsis in the hands of those unskilled in aseptic treatment. The skin is purified in the usual way and a sterilised aspirating needle is thrust through it at some distance from the abscess and pushed on until it enters its cavity, when the fluid is gradually withdrawn. The needle should not be thrust through the most dependent part of the abscess, and it is important to prevent any of the contents finding their way into the needle-track, lest a sinus should form. With this object in view, the piston of the aspirating syringe should be steadily withdrawn as the needle is pulled out. Only the fluid part of the contents of the abscess cavity can be with- drawn in this way ; cheesy particles will not pass through the canula, and in order to overcome this difficulty, it is the practice to inject some ' modi- fying fluid ' with the object of rendering the contents thinner and able to flow through the canula at the next aspiration. For this purpose it is usual to inject from 15-60 minims of a saturated solution of iodoform in ether, according to the size of the abscess, after as much of the fluid con- tents of the abscess as possible has been withdrawn. When this fluid is injected, the heat of the body volatilises the ether, which escapes through the canula, leaving the iodoform diffused over the abscess. When all the ether has escaped, the needle is withdrawn. For full particulars of this method the reader should consult an interesting paper by Calve and Gauvain {Lancet, March 5, 1910). The chief objection to the operation is that it needs to be repeated on several occasions; its chief advantage is that it does not need a general anaesthetic. It is needless to say that these operations must be performed strictly antiseptically ; the entrance of septic organisms or even of saprophytes would seriously endanger the patient's life. Before the introduction of antiseptic treatment few cases of psoas abscess recovered. The general health must be attended to and good hygienic con- ditions, absolute rest to the part, and the administration of cod liver oil and nourishing diet, must be insisted upon. The administration of tuberculin (see Appendix) is also advisable in many cases. The subject of chronic abscess has to be considered again in connection with tuber- culous disease in the various organs, but what has been said will suffice to indicate the general principles of the treatment.