DEFORMITIES 332 the astragalus, removal of a portion of the upper surface of that bone, excision of the ankle joint, or amputation. Excision of the Astragalus.—In ordinary cases, when the nutrition of the parts is good, excision of the astragalus yields an excellent result, and is probably the best procedure. After this operation the foot is very useful, and the ankle joint is freely movable; the os calcis rises to some extent between the malleoh, and, when the operation is performed in young subjects, it is almost impossible, when they reach adult hfe, to tell that anything has been done. Various incisions are used for the operation. It may be done by two vertical incisions, one on either side of the front of the ankle joint; that on the inner side commences about two inches above the internal malle- olus, over the anterior border of the tibia, and runs downwards over the ankle to the dorsal surface of the scaphoid. This incision is carried down to the bone, but should avoid the tibialis anticus tendon, which is easily hooked out of the way. . The second incision is made on the outer side; it commences about two inches above the tip of the external malleolus, and is carried downwards and forwards parallel with the inner incision to a point opposite the termination of the latter (see Fig. 107). The structures over the front of the ankle joint are separated by a periosteum detacher, and a copper spatula is passed beneath the bridge of soft tissues thus raised, which contains all the tendons, vessels, and nerves. These are pulled well forwards and protected against injury by the spatula. The lateral and anterior ligaments of the ankle joint are now divided and the astragalo-scaphoid articulation is opened. - The strong calcaneo-astragaloid ligament is next divided, and then the astra- galus is seized by strong forceps and gradually pulled forwards and to one side, and any resisting structure divided. At the posterior part of the bone the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis must be separated from its groove with a periosteum detacher. A simpler method is by means of a single long incision, commencing just behind the fibula, 2| inches above the malleolus, and running verti- cally down as far as the tip of that structure, when it turns forwards along the outer aspect of the foot to the base of the fifth metatarsal. The flap is dissected up, the peronei tendons are turned out of their groove, the external lateral Ugament of the ankle is divided, and the head of the astragalus disarticulated from the scaphoid. By inverting the foot forcibly, the strong inter-osseous ligament between the os calcis and the astragalus can be divided, and the latter bone freed from its remaining connections and removed. After the astragalus has been removed, the foot is put up at a right angle upon a suitable splint. It is only in the most extreme cases that it becomes necessary to divide the tendo Achilhs at the same time. In putting up the foot special care must be taken to prevent inversion, and the best apparatus is Croft's plaster of Paris splint,