TALIPES EQUINO-VARUS 355 outward pull of the spring. In some forms of the apparatus this move- ment is reinforced by a joint in the foot-piece beneath the instep, which is made to carry the front half outwards, by means of a screw ; this effects more powerful abduction of the front of the foot. When applying a Scarpa's shoe, the apparatus is hrst screwed into a position corresponding with the deformity, and the heel is carefully fixed down to the foot-piece by the appropriate straps. The apparatus is then fastened to the leg, and the various racks are turned with keys, and the deformity is reduced as far as possible without giving pain. The reduction should not be carried so far as to cause pain, and there should be no undue pressure upon the straps which pass across the instep and fasten the heel to the splint, as otherwise sores may form beneath them. Much more will be done by gentleness and gradual reduction of the deformity than by any violent attempt to over-correct it at once ; the correction should be increased gradually until the deformity is over-corrected (see Fig 117). The apparatus is best suited for children who can walk ; in a very young child the foot is too small for the shoe to get proper purchase, and therefore the lighter metal splint is preferable. The shoe should be worn night and day, and should only be taken off for toilet purposes and for massage. The child may walk while wearing the apparatus, and its use should be continued for a year or two, when a lighter apparatus may be substituted for it, which will have to be worn for two or three years longer. As soon as the foot will retain its position when the child stands or walks, the splint may be dispensed with, but even then it is well to see that the boots are made to a cast of the foot in its corrected position, and in some cases a suitable spring or an artificial sole is requisite to raise the outer border of the foot. Even after the lapse of this length of time it is well to put on the apparatus at night for another year or two in order to pre\-ent the foot assuming the faulty position during sleep. The most severe Cases of Deformity—The greatest difficulty arises in the treatment of the third group of cases in which the most important obstacle to reduction is permanent alteration in the bones. These cases may be divided into those in which the patient is still young and the bones are soft and capable of being moulded, although the deformity in the osseous structures of the foot may be considerable, and those in which the condition has remained untreated into adult life, and in which therefore the bones are fully ossified and unyielding. In young subjects it is sometimes possible, even when there is marked deformity, to alter the shape of even considerably deformed bones and to bring the foot gradually to its proper position by keeping up continuous pressure in the desired direction ; this treatment is carried out in com- bination with free division of the resisting soft structures. In the more advanced cases, however, it is necessar}^ to employ operative interference to remedy the deformity of the bones. The treatment of the first group of cases consists either in dividing A A 2