DEFORMITIES 272 Fig. 70.—The Ear-ring Perforation Operation for Webbed Fingers. Three stages of the operation are shown. On the left is the ring of silver wire in silu: in the centre the web is being divided after cicatrisation of the perfora- tion, while on the right are seen the redun- dant edges ready to be trimmed off. is complete. This requires some five or six weeks, at the end of which time a knife is introduced into the hole and the web spHt down to the free edge. If possible, the cut edges on each side of the cleft should be united by sutures so as to secure immediate union and avoid a granulating wound, which would undergo contraction. After this operation, even in favourable cases, con- siderable contraction may still take place. The V-shaped Flap.—A more satisfac- tory method is to turn a flap into the cleft after the web has been divided. The best way of doing this is to cut a tri- angular flap with its apex downwards from the dorsal surface of the base of the web (see Fig. 71). A triangular flap, the apex of which is in the centre of the web sufficiently low down to enable the flap to be folded into the cleft and stitched to the skin of the pahn, is marked out by carrying an incision upwards on each side from this point to one a little to the side of the sponding phalanx and opposite the base of the web. This flap, consisting of skin and fat, is dissected up, and then the web is split down the centre. The flap is now folded down between the fingers, its apex is stitched to the palmar edge of the cleft, and its sides to the adjacent skin edges. The result is that immediate union takes place and no contraction occurs. The raw surface on each finger left by splitting the web is then trimmed, and the edges stitched accu- rately together so as to obtain union b}^ first intention. The granular fat often projects between the edges of the skin and prevents accurate apposition ; when this is the case, it should be clipped away before the sutures are inserted. If a small space be left near the cleft where the edges wiU not come together, it is weU to place a skin-graft over the raw surface. This operation is useful for partial and complete webs, and is the best that can be adopted, provided that there is plenty of room between the fingers. corre- FiG. 71.—The v-shaped Flap Operation for Webbed Fingers. The three stages of the operation are here shown. In the centre the flap has been marked out; on the right it has been dissected up, while on the left it has been turned down and sutured into the cleft.