INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 76 to the gangrenous part, the incision will probably go into dead tissues as it is deepened. Hence an interval of at least three inches should intervene between the line of gangrene and the amputation incision (see Fig. 22). In many cases, however, amputation is done higher up than this on account of the better stump obtained, or on account of the better anastomotic circulation. When there is blocking of the veins as well as of the arteries, the chances of restoration of the local circulation are less, but the rules of treatment are the same. Gangrene due to Imperfect Innervation.— When a limb is paralysed, its nutrition is almost always deficient, and such limbs are especially liable to the formation of bed-sores and gangrene from pressure. In hemiplegia also, when the patient is lying absolutely still, he is extremely liable to suffer from bed-sores, which are worse on the paralysed side than on the sound one. Again, if extension be applied to a paralysed limb and to a sound one, there is much greater liability for sloughs to form under the extension plaster on the paralysed limb than on the sound side. The gangrene that occurs in these cases gene- rally comes on very quickly. It is moist, and is often spoken of as an acute bed-sore, and it is very important to remember that under such circum- stances the greatest care should be taken to avoid even the slightest pressure. The part must be examined frequently to see that its condition is good, and the limb should be kept warm and slightly elevated; should sloughing occur, the case must be treated like one of bed-sore (see p. 70). There is another form of gangrene in con- nection with nervous derangements termed sym- metrical gangrene or ' Raynaud's Disease.' This form differs from senile gangrene, which it resembles in some respects, in that it is always bilateral, while senile gangrene is often one-sided; that it more often affects the fingers than the toes ; that it is much more limited both in extent (generally not reaching beyond the phalanges) and in depth (seldom going deeper than the skin) ; and that in ' Raynaud's disease ' the blood-vessels are structurally normal, whereas in senile gangrene they are thickened and hard. ' Raynaud's disease' occurs chiefly in women of pronounced neurotic type between eighteen and thirty years of age ; though often associated with uterine and menstrual Fig. 22. — Diagram to ILLUSTRATE THE PRIN'CIPLES OF Amputation for Gan- grene OF the Leg.—The shaded portion represents the extent of the gangrene, which is seen to extend further up the limb in the deeper tissues than in the skin. The unbroken lines above this represent the in- cisions which must be made in order to remove the whole of the gangrenous area. In many cases much more healthy tissue must be removed.