WOUNDS patient with the drug, which is then discontinued for twenty-four hours and drachm doses of Warburg's tincture every four hours substituted. This plan is sometimes very satisfactory. The bowels and the kidneys should be kept acting freely. The wound should always be opened up and drained freely, but at this stage there is no chance of really disinfecting it or of preventing the entrance of organisms into the body. When the wound is in one of the extremities, amputation has been done in a considerable number of cases; but unfortimately, this has little effect on the progress of the disease, for in most cases the organisms seem to be established in the internal organs, and the only result of amputation is to lower the patient's vitality and hasten the fatal result. Unless the source of the general condition be definitely limited to the wound or its vicinity, amputation is worse than useless. CHRONIC SEPTICEMIA OR HECTIC FEVER. The condition known as hectic fever is really a chronic septiccemia ; it may follow the acute form in a few rare cases, but is generally chronic from the first. It is marked by pyrexia, night sweats, wasting, and dryness of the tongue, and usually does not come on until the chronic septiccemic condition has lasted for some weeks at least. The tempera- ture has a distinctly hectic character, being high in the evening (ioi° or 102° F.) and falling to about normal in the morning. The same inter- mittent type of pyrexia is also seen in acute septicaemia, but there the temperature is always a febrile one, notwithstanding the morning fall. The condition used to be ascribed to the loss of certain constituents of the blood as a result of prolonged suppuration. There can be no doubt, however, that it is due to the action of pyogenic organisms, which appa- rently do not grow in the blood and the viscera, as they probably do in acute septicaemia, but are located mainly in the wound. After hectic fever has lasted for some time, a peculiar degeneration of the blood- vessels, termed waxy degeneration or lardaceous disease, takes place, and this chiefly affects the blood-vessels in the liver, the kidneys, and the intestines ; as a result of this there is polyuria, albuminuria, diarrhoea, and oedema of the extremities. The waxy degeneration is due to the direct action of the poisonous bacterial products circulating in the blood upon the walls of the blood-vessels ; it is not due to the loss of the purulent fluid, as was formerly supposed. The affection is most frequently met with in association with tuberculous disease or necrosis ; it was formerly a common sequela of operations upon psoas and other spinal abscesses, and was the actual cause of death in a large number of those cases. TREATMENT.—Local.—The question of disinfecting the wound and getting rid of the source of the disease is naturally the first to arise.