WOUNDS the gauze in a solution of perchloride of mercury, i in 2000, which is asbestos. The apparatus is fitted with appropriate pressure gauges, water gauge, and safety valve, and in addition there is a steam exhaust, by means of wliich a partial vacuum can be produced in the inner chamber. The dressings or other articles to be sterilised are placed in the ordinary drums, which should be lined with lint or Gamgee tissue so as to prevent any dust finding its way into them between the time of sterilising and the application of the dressing. It is important to pack the dressings loosely so as to allow free permeation by the steam. After the drums have been placed within the steriliser, the perforations in their side being widely open, the steam door is closed and the gas burner lighted; when a sufficient head of steam has been raised, the air in the sterilising chamber is displaced by letting in the steam after opening one of the stop- cocks leading from this chamber. When pure steam is issuing, that is to say, when the lower portion of the jet in contact with the tap is invisible, the steam is shut off from the inner chamber and the exhaust connected. By this means a vacuum of eight to ten inches of mercury can be produced. This means that if steam were now admitted at atmo- spheric pressure to the dressing chamber it would permeate one-fourth to one-third of the bulk of the dressings. The sterilising chamber is now connected with the boiler, and steam is let in at a pressure of about twenty pounds to the square inch. The object of using steam at this pressure is twofold. In the first place, the pressure causes a thorough permeation of the dressings by the steam, leaving but little to the process of diffusion ; the steam is forced two-thirds of the way into the dressings immediately, diffusion sufficing for the remaining third. In the second place, the temperature of steam at this pressure (260° F.) provides for the rapid destruction of all organisms and their spores. The dressings are left in the sterilising chamber for forty minutes ; this is regarded by many as an excessive time, but it must be remembered that the actual time of sterilisation must be reckoned from the moment when the steam has penetrated the innermo.st recesses of the dressings, and therefore to ensure thorough sterility it is as well to allow a prolonged exposure to the steam. At the expiration of this time the cock connecting the boiler and the sterilising chamber is closed and the steam exhaust is brought into action for twenty minutes and by means of it the dressings are thoroughly dried. Towards the conclusion of this time the tap leading from the sterihsing chamber to the outer air is open and an- is sucked in through a mass of sterilised wool which effectually filters it. The dressings are now ready to be removed from the steriliser and may be used immediately or, if the tins have been carefully lined and the perforations in their side closed, can be stored until they are required. The salicylic wool loses a small amount of salicylic acid m this process but the amount is negligible; the double cyanide wool is unaltered. If such an apparatus be not obtainable, all that is necessary is to place