WOUNDS i86 also of saprophytic growth. Although the true saprophytes are unable to grow in living tissues, they may nevertheless cause serious results and may even bring about the death of the patient whose wounds they infect, for, as they grow in organic materials, they give rise to various poisonous sub- stances, which, if absorbed into the body, may cause the condition known as septic intoxication. Septic intoxication therefore is an affection produced not by parasitic growth in the body, but by the absorption of products of decomposition formed in the wound. These products are mainly the result of the growth of saprophytes, but they are also to some extent produced by organisms which can become parasitic should the patient live. SYMPTOMS.—The symptoms of septic intoxication are due to the poison which is absorbed into the system. The condition in former days was not recognised as such and was often spoken of as ' secondary shock.' The affection can only occur in large wounds, because it is only in them that sufficient toxic material can be formed to provide a poisonous dose ; for example, it may be met with in amputations at the hip joint, operations upon large joints such as the knee, extensive compound fractures, extensive operations about the breast and axilla, many abdo- minal operations, psoas abscess, and so forth. The clinical history is somewhat as follows. In the first place, the operation being a severe one, the patient suffers from collapse, with depression of temperature, feeble pulse, etc., and as the shock is recovered from, this is followed by reaction with pyrexia. The temperature usually rises considerably within twenty- four hours ; then it falls rapidly and the patient again passes into a condition not unlike that of shock. He becomes semi-conscious, the pulse is weak and fluttering, and the temperature low ; if this condition persist, he may die. The affection is very grave in those who have renal disease, for whereas the poison is rapidly excreted by the healthy kidneys, the excretion may not be sufficiently rapid to save the patient's life if they are diseased. Hence the old rule, on which so much stress was laid, was that no operation should be undertaken when there was albumin in the urine. Nowadays this does not apply with such rigour, since we do not anticipate such a catastrophe as septic intoxication. Milder conditions of septic intoxication may also occur, in which there is no great lowering of temperature ; in them the patient recovers rapidly. TREATMENT—Local.—When the above symptoms appear, the clear indications are to get rid of all decomposing materials from the wound, so as to stop the absorption, and then to support the patient's strength and promote the excretion of the poison wliich has already entered the body. Hence, the wound should at once be opened up freely, the stitches taken out, and all decomposing blood-clot and other material cleared out. The wound should then be thoroughly irrigated with sterilised saline solution at a temperature of about 104° F. ; these hot lotions act as a general stimulant and do not damage the tissues. Anti-