LOCAL ANESTHESIA 486 Kocher thinks very highly of this process, which he beUeves will come more into vogue when the anatomists have suppHed us with more accurate maps of the nerve distributions of the body; as far as the cutaneous nerves are concerned this appears to have been done to his satisfaction by Spalteholtz, whose illustrations Kocher reproduces.^ Venous Ancesthesia.—In this process, introduced by Bier in 1908 and applicable only to the extremities, the area of operation is rendered as bloodless as possible by elevation of the limb, the use of elastic bandages, and the firm application of the tourniquet. A superficial vein is then opened and a canula tied in. From 100 to 200 c.c. of a 0-5 per cent, solution of novacaine are forced into the vein and allowed to diffuse over the site of the operation. Complete anaesthesia appears in about fifteen minutes and should last until the tourniquet is removed. The proceed- ing is a complicated and difficult one, and the results obtained in this country 2 can hardly be considered satisfactory. SPINAL ANAESTHESIA. In 1899 Professor Bier, of Berlin, demonstrated the possibility s of producing anaesthesia of the lower extremities by the injection of cocaine into the sheath of the spinal cord in the lower lumbar region. Since that date the method has been employed with increasing frequency, and may now be considered to have obtained a recognised position in anaesthetics. The use of cocaine itself for lumbar puncture has been practically abandoned, its place being taken by one of the allied com- pounds referred to on p. 484, the technique of the proceeding being the same in any case. Cases suitable.—Theoretically, this method is appUcable in all operations below the level of the umbilicus, and Jonnesco, of Bucharest, maintains that, by the addition of small quantities of strychnine to the solutions, he is able to obtain a perfectly safe and satisfactory anaglesia, even, as high as the vertex.i but I hardly think that he has succeeded in convincing English anaesthetists and surgeons on this point. In the present imperfect state of our knowledge as to the ultimate after-effects of these injections, it is better, perhaps, that they should only be used when it is considered, that they possess distinct advantages over the ordinary methods of general anaesthesia; as, for instance, in such types as the following, viz: (i) Severe injuries to the lower extremities, whether an operation is contemplated or not, the puncture being made as soon after the accident as possible. Much weight is to be attached to the view that' shock ' is thereby greatly diminished. (2) In operations upon ' Kocher, Operative Surgery, op. cit. p. 18. - Page and MacDonald, Lancet, October 16, 1909, p. 1135. 2 Deutsche Zeitschrift f. Chirurgie, Bd. 52, September 1899. * British Medical Journal, November 13, 1909.