OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT 125 The recumbent position is required, in most cases at any rate, until the sickness lias passed off, but the rigidity with which this is enforced is becoming relaxed, and many patients are now allowed to assume a more upright position almost immediately after an operation. While sitting a patient up in bed, the pulse must be carefully watched, and the patient laid fiat on liis back if it show any sign of failing. The surgeon must use his judgment as to tlie immediate administration of morphine or heroin. The patient should always be seen on the evening of the operation in case he be in pain, for which morphine may be necessary ; in case any bandage be too tight and require cutting ; also in case there be retention of urine, which may occur not only after rectal and perineal operations, but sometimes in other cases. Other troubles of which the patient may complain are the occurrence of colicky pains and pain in the loins. Colicky pains are common after abdominal operations, and seldom subside entirely until the bowels have acted ; they can be diminished by enemata and the passage of a long rectal tube. Pain in the back is a very common complaint with people who have been in vigorous health before the operation, especially when the operation has been prolonged and the patient has to lie on his back afterwards. This passes off in twenty-four or thirty-six houi-s, but while it lasts it causes consider- able discomfort. Aspirin in doses of fifteen grains generally relieves this; if necessary, it may be given in a saline enema. A pillow or an india- rubber hot-water bottle under the back also relieves it to some extent, and when we expect that it may happen—e.g. in prolonged operations —it is well to place a pillow under the loins when the patient is put upon the operating table. Feeding.—Neither food nor drink should be given for three or four hours after the operation ; at most, a small quantity of very hot water or a teaspoonful of brandy-and-water if absolutely necessary. At the end of that time beef-tea may be given if the patient desire food, and this may be alternated with milk-and-soda after about six hours, if there be no sickness. A cup of hot weak tea is often the first thing that the patient relishes. It is well not to push the feeding for the first twenty-four hours, unless the patient be very weakly, and even then two or three nutrient enemata or zyminised suppositories administered at intervals of four hours are better than feeding by the mouth. If feeding by the mouth be commenced too soon, or pushed too energetically, it is apt to bring on serious sickness. For the treatment of vomiting after an anjesthetic, see p. 478. In babies still at the breast, feeding can be discontinued until the child seems anxious for food. No attempt should be made to force the child to take the breast, but if he seems to want to do so, it may be permitted without risk. Very young children are much less sick, and are generally in less discomfort after operations than adults.