176 WOUNDS ulceration of the duodenum—is observed. This occurs at the point where the contents of the bile duct impinge on the intestinal mucous membrane, and is possibly due, as was suggested by Dr. William Hunter, to the excretion, with the bile, of irritating products resulting from an im- perfect carbonisation of the tissues. In other cases ha;maturia or haemo- globinuria occurs. The tliird stage begins when the slough separates, and is mainly occupied by the healing process. Towards the end of the second, and in the earlv part of the third stage, the patient is liable to various general septic diseases and also to local septic troubles due to the position of the burn ; for example, when this is situated over a cavity such as a joint or the pleura, either may be opened as the slough separates, and violent septic arthritis or pleurisy may follow. The Causes of Death after Burns depend mainly on the extent, but partly also on the depth, of the burn and the region of the body affected. An extensive superficial burn is more dangerous than a limited but deep one, whilst a burn over the head or the thorax is far more serious than a more extensive one on an extremity. The causes of death after burns are (i) shock, (2) collapse, (3) poisoning from absorption of partially broken-down organic products at the seat of the injury, (4) congestion of various internal organs, (5) inflammation of these organs, (6) intestinal ulceration, (7) various septic diseases, particularly erysipelas, septicaemia and pyaemia, and (8) exhaustion. In burns in particular situations of course there are special dangers ; for example, in scalds of the throat there is the danger of oedema glottidis and death by suffocation. When the patient has been burnt in an explosion in a mine or in a burning house there may be symptoms due to asphyxia or carbonic-oxide poisoning. TREATMENT.—The treatment may be described under four heads —namelj^ the treatment of the first degree, that of the second, that of the third and fourth degrees, and, lastly, that of the last two degrees. It is also important to consider both local and general treatment. General Treatment.—The general treatment will depend largely upon the extent and result of the burn. When a patient comes under observation suffering from severe shock, the various measures appropriate for the treatment of that condition (see p. 120) must be employed. During the early stage also, apart from shock, it may be necessary to counteract carbonic-oxide poisoning, which is indicated mainly by the presence of dyspnoea, while the mucous membranes are of a cherry-red colour and the pulse is slow. A drop of blood from a needle-puncture shows marked deviation in colour from normal blood: it is of the same bright cherry-red as the mucous membranes. This condition is due to the carbonic oxide entering into combination with the haemoglobin, and preventing the corpuscles from fulfiUing their functions as carriers of oxygen. Carbonic-oxide poisoning must be treated by free stimulation, com-