EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD 5i6 an india-rubber nipple is slipped. A unit mark is made with grease- pencil about I inch from the tip and the apparatus is ready for use. The operator then winds a narrow bandage round one of the fingers of his left hand so as to congest the tip, and makes a small puncture with the sharp point of a piece of capillary tubing just drawn out in the flame and, therefore, sterile. By bending the finger a drop of blood is squeezed out, and enough of this to reach exactly to the unit mark is sucked into the pipette. This is withdrawn from the blood and a little air sucked in. The emulsion is well shaken and this also is sucked up to the unit mark in the tube, thus giving exactly equal amounts of the two fluids. These are expelled on to the surface of a clean slide and thoroughly mixed. Films, which must be thin and even, are prepared from the mixture : there must be no delay about this, or the blood may coagulate. These films must then be fixed and stained by some method which wUl show both the bacteria and the red corpuscles : Jenner's method may be used, but it is better to fix with a saturated solution of perchloride of mercury and stain with carbol- fuchsin. These films are then examined microscopically and a count is made of the number of red corpuscles and of bacteria seen in the same field of the microscope. It is necessary to count many of these fields (since the spreading is never quite even), so that a reasonably accurate estimation of the ratio of the two objects may be obtained: and these fields should be taken from all regions of the film. The calculation of the number of bacteria in the emulsion is then simple. Thus supposing 20 fields were counted and found to contain 720 red corpuscles and 200 bacteria, and then, having found that the blood contains 5,200,000 red corpuscles per cubic millimetre, the calcula- tion is as follows :—- For each red corpuscle there is ^ bacteria. I cubic millimetre of blood contains 5,200,000 corpuscles. . •. I cubic millimetre of emulsion contains 5,200,000 X bacteria == 1,400,000 (about) And I cubic centimetre contains 1,400,000,000. If it was desired to prepare a vaccine containing 100 millions per cubic centimetre it would be diluted with thirteen times its volume of diluent. If 1000 millions were required in one cubic centimetre, then ten volumes of the emulsion would have to be diluted with four volumes of diluent, and so on. Testing the Sterility of the Emulsion.—The hour having elapsed the bulb of vaccine is removed from the fluid, and the tip is sterilised in the flame and broken off with a pair of sterile forceps. A little of the fluid is then expelled on to the surface of agar or other suitable medium, and the culture tube replugged and incubated. Unless it remains sterile the vaccine must not be used.