ANESTHETICS 470 keeping the blood from the hair. I have adopted the device shown and explained in Figs. 214 and 215. C, C. Figs. 214 and 215.—Protection of Hair in Operations in that Region. A carbolised towel is folded cornerwise ; the middle of this folded edge is placed over the forehead, the ends A and B crossed well behind the occiput, and brought up to the forehead and secured by a pin. The end C may be utilised for securing stray strands of hair. The appearance will be as in the right-hand figure. In abdominal operations many surgeons prefer the use of chloroform on the grounds that the anaesthesia is quieter, the muscular relaxation more perfect, and the after-sickness, if any, is less violent. If ether be used for these cases the increased flow of mucus, associated with the temporary paralysis of the abdominal muscles, increases the risk of bronchial and pulmonary complications. When the stomach is to be opened it may be washed out with a stomach tube, but this should be done not less than half an hour beforehand ; it is of no advantage, but rather the reverse, to do this at the last moment, or when the patient is actually anaesthetised. In cases of faecal vomiting from intestinal obstruction, the contents of the stomach may be siphoned off just before the operation. In severe operations in robust adults in which much shock is to be anticipated, it is of importance that the anaesthesia should be tolerably profound throughout. Among such operations I would particularly enumerate those affecting the big joints, those involving manipulation of the spermatic cord, operations upon the genito-urinary and rectal areas, and abdominal operations. When patients are losing much blood, or are suffering from primary shock or much prostration, the strength of the vapour inhaled may be considerably diminished. It is in such cases that nutrient enemata and strychnine hypodermically are useful, and in which a regulating inhaler is of advantage. Alcoholics are troublesome subjects to anaesthetise. They are apt to struggle very violently, to become very livid, and unless reduced to a dangerous degree of narcosis, they are often very restless. This is especially the case when ether is used. Their tissues are often much degenerated, so that in choosing an anaesthetic for such patients it must be remembered that they are prematurely aged. Acute or far advanced cases should perhaps be started with Mixture, and ether gradually added.