231 TREATMENT mentioned ; they are the conditions of the tissues which facilitate the growth of the bacilH, such as those produced by heredity or induced by food; attention to diet is therefore an important point in treatment. Injuries not only predispose the tissues to the deposit of tubercles in the damaged part, but are also likely to increase the virulence of the disease when present. Cold or sepsis acts similarly, while the influence of climate and hygienic conditions is great. The relation of tuberculosis to other diseases is also of interest, for the occurrence of the latter in tuberculous patients is apt to light up the disease or to encourage its spread. This is especially the case with regard to influenza, measles, and chicken-pox, and therefore exposure to these diseases should be avoided as far as possible. TREATMENT.—Only the General Treatment of tuberculosis will be dealt with here ; the local treatment must be considered in connec- tion with the parts affected, and is described in speaking of the various structures in which it may arise. The general treatment of tuberculous disease has two chief aims—viz. to place the body in a better con- dition to resist the progress of the disease, and to act directly upon the tuberculous process. The methods of treatment directed to the latter end consist essentially of various forms of operations, and the use of various substances supposed to favour the destruction of the tubercle bacillus—for example, Koch's tuberculin or one of its modifications, iodoform, benzoate of soda, and many others. The dosage and methods of administration of tuberculin are dealt with by Dr. Emery (see Appendix). There are various methods of general treatment designed to increase the resisting power of the tissues, or to remove the causes favouring the growth of the bacillus, which may be indicated here. An essential point is to put the patient under the best possible hygienic conditions. A tuberculous subject must be kept from exposure to cold and wet, which may not only induce tuberculosis in some part of the body not yet affected, but may also exaggerate a lesion already existing. He must have the maximum amount of fresh air and sunshine possible, and therefore it is important that he should live a healthy outdoor life. There is, however, no special climate suitable for all tuberculous cases. Some do better in a cold and bracing climate, others in a warm one, provided it be not relaxing. Hence all patients should not be sent to the same place, or to the same sort of climate ; it is necessary to ascertain which suits the individual best. The only sine qua non is that it should be possible to be out of doors at the place selected practically all day without danger of taking cold. The patient should in fact lead the ' open-air life ' that is so much in favour in the sanatorium treatment of tuberculous disease of the lung. When the lower extremities are unaffected, sufficient exercise must be taken, but it must be of such a character that the patient runs no risk of injury, for a local deposit of tubercle is likely to occur at any spot