WOUNDS 96 beating and shaking ; if many of these foreign bodies be present the sponge should be rejected. The sponges are next washed in plain water containing a little soda or soap powder, to remove dirt, and are then rinsed in running water until the water squeezed out of them is perfectly clear ; they are then soaked for twelve hours in a ten-per-cent. solution of hydrochloric acid to remove any remaining particles of calcareous matter, after which they are again rinsed and placed in a strong solution of washing soda overnight ; after being again rinsed in clean cold water they are stored for use in a covered jar containing a i in 20 carbolic solution which should be changed occasionally. The sponges should not be used for at least forty-eight hours after they have been put in the carbolic. This method, although apparently rather complex, is really quite simple in practice. After an operation, the sponges are rinsed and picked clean of fibrin and other solid matter ; they are then soaked for twenty-four hours in a strong solution of washing soda, rinsed thoroughly in running water and returned to the carbolic solution, where they are treated as before. A good sponge can be used many times, although ultimately it becomes hard and friable and must be discarded. Sponges saturated with pus or tuberculous material should not be used again. Swabs.—For septic cases these have advantages over sponges in that large numbers can be prepared and thrown away when they have been used. They may be prepared either by cutting a roll of plain gauze into short lengths or from absorbent wool. A single layer of gauze about nine inches square is taken and upon the centre of it is placed a mass of wool, about the size of a small orange ; the opposite corners of the gauze square are then tied together over the wool so as to enclose it completely and to diminish the risk of leaving fragments of wool behind in the wound. The swab should be quite soft and not tightly tied up. They may be sterilised either by boiling, by means of a high pressure autoclave, or by immersion in a i in 20 solution of carbolic acid for twenty-four hours. The ordinary steamer in which sterilisation is attempted at atmospheric pressure is not entu'ely satisfactory {vide infra). In most cases fiat swabs are more useful than the round ones, especially if the latter be made firm and hard. Dressings.—Although a large number of materials for dressings have been introduced, we are in the habit of using Lister's double cyanide gauze and salicylic or double cyanide wool almost exclusively. This gauze is impregnated with the double cyanide of mercury and zinc, a substance which,, while it is almost insoluble in water, does dissolve slowly in albuminous fluids such as blood. As prepared commercially it is liable to contain a small quantity of free perchloride of mercury. Although the antiseptic contained within it is sufficient to inhibit the growth of organisms in fluids which it has absorbed, it is better not to trust to the sterility of this dressing as it is obtained from the manu-