SUMMARY 507 cases there may, of course, be a slight anaemia with or without moderate leucocytosis. Malignant Disease.—In the early stages there may be nothing abnor- mal, or there may be a slight polynuclear leucocytosis ; it is rarely sufficient to help much in the diagnosis. In later stages there is usually a marked polynuclear leucocytosis, more marked in the sarcomata than in the carcinomata, and in ulcerated than in non-ulcerated tumours. Anaemia frequently occurs (but not alvvaj^s, the blood sometimes appearing to diminish in total volume rather than to become impoverished), and nucleated red corpuscles (normoblasts) may be present in considerable numbers. In carcinoma of the oesophagus there may be a leucopenia. In cancer of the stomach the leucocytosis, anaemia, and presence of nucleated red corpuscles is usually well marked. In most cases the anaemia is of the ordinary secondary variety, with a low colour-index ; whilst in others the colour-index is high, and the blood-count closely resembles that of pernicious anaemia, from which it may be distinguished by the presence of polynuclear leucocytosis in place of the leucopenia and lymphocytosis met with in the other condition. Lymphadenoma.—In the early stages the blood is unaltered in any way. In the later there is the ordinary secondary anaemia, and frequently moderate leucocytosis. It is worth while to emphasise the fact that the disease cannot be diagnosed by a blood examination. Leucocythcemia.—In the spleno-meduUary form there is a vast excess of leucocytes (250,000 or more), which are seen to consist in large measure of myelocytes. There is an excess of mast cells, often of large size, of eosinopliile cells, and of polynuclear cells, and eosinophile myelocytes are present. There is anaemia, of the secondary type, and nucleated red cor- puscles are usually present. The disease may be diagnosed in most cases by a single glance at a stained film. LympJiatic Leucocythcemia.—This is associated with a great increase of the leucocytes, usually to 100,000 or more, but sometimes to a much lower figure ; and occasionally in diseases apparently of this type the total numbers are normal. In all cases, however, the relative number of the lymphocytes is greatly raised, sometimes to 99 per cent. There is also secondary anaemia. Pernicious Ancemia.—This is associated by a raised colour index, which may be as high as i^S, or even more ; the red corpuscles are reduced out of proportion to the haemoglobin. Thus it is common to find about 1,000,000 red corpuscles, and when this is the case the haemoglobin may be 25-30 per cent., instead of the normal 20 per cent. The red corpuscles are abnormal, being larger than normal (macrocytes), small (microcytes), or distorted (poikilocytes). Nucleated corpuscles occur, especially the large forms (megaloblasts), which are almost characteristic of this disease.