DIFFUSE CELLULITIS 37 of the fingers, fairly small objects can be picked up between the fingers and thumb, even with comparatively limited movement. To lay the whole hand fiat on a splint, with the thumb at the side of the fingers, is a mistake so commonly made that too much attention cannot be called to it. The elbow or the foot should be put up at a right angle, the knee very slightly flexed. Movement.—When the acute inflammation has passed off, steps must be taken to prevent stiffness supervening, for in diffuse cellulitis, spreading as it does in the planes of the cellular tissue, and accompanied, as it often is, by sloughing, the tissues are apt to become adherent to one another. Thus, in the forearm, owing to the inflammation causing adhesion of the muscles to one another, and owing to gan- grene of portions of the muscle or even of the tendons, the hand may become permanently useless. Hence, the splint must be given up directly the acute symptoms have passed off, and, to a certain extent, rapidity of heahng must be sacrificed to the attempt to promote move- ment. In the first instance passive movements only are attempted, and these are combined with the use of massage (see p. 23). Active movements should also be employed, preferably against some form of resistance. A convenient method of accomphshing this in the case of the forearm and hand is to make a ball of Berlin wool about the size of a small orange and to instruct the patient to grasp this and compress it slowly and regularly a number of times at intervals during the day. The ball of wool affords a comparatively firm but elastic article to grasp ; its size and tension can be regulated at will. The patient should be encouraged to move the finger, wrist, and elbow joints, two or three times daily; in addition, massage and passive movement of these joints ought also to be practised at least once daily on the lines laid down on p. 23. In bad cases, passive movement under an anaesthetic may be required two or three times a week, but care must be taken not to do too much at a time, as otherwise fresh effusion may be caused, and the object of the procedure defeated. General.—Diffuse cellulitis is a very grave disease, and the patient is apt to pass into the typhoid state, hence free stimulation is necessary. Perhaps the best stimulant is brandy, but when the patient is very exhausted, champagne may have a better effect—at any rate, tem- porarily. As much as six ounces of brandy or double that quantity of champagne may be administered in the twenty-four hours, and when the pulse is very weak, an even larger amount may be necessary. Strychnine injected hypodermically is also of great value. Ten-grain doses of quinine may be given every four hours till marked symptoms of cinchonism are produced. Easily digested, concentrated, nourishing fluid food should be given in quantities as large as the patient can tolerate.