TUMOURS 258 It is especially necessary to see to this if steel needles be used, as a per- manent black mark is liable to occur if any uninsulated portion lies in con- tact with the skin. After the needles attached to the positive pole have been inserted in the manner just described, a large flat pad attached to the negative pole and moistened with salt solution is placed on the skin either over the spine or somewhere in the neighbourhood of the nasvus. The pad must be moved from one point to another as the electrolysis proceeds, so that it shall not act too long at one spot; if it does, a slough may result. In large nsevi both poles may be buried in the tumour, the negative pole being attached to a single needle insulated as described above, which is also pushed into the swelling. For this purpose the handle figured below (see Fig. 6i) is specially useful. The strength of the current should be from 20 to 30 milliamperes, but, when three or four needles are used, 30 to 40 may be used. The current should be continued for about ten minutes ; the best criterion as to when to discontinue it is perhaps that the naevus is felt to become firm. Before withdrawing the needles, the current should be reversed for a few seconds, as otherwise those connected with the positive pole adhere firmly to the tissues, and bleeding results from their withdrawal; this is, however, not of any real moment, light pressure being sufficient to check it. The skin should be thoroughly disinfected before the operation (see p. 100), and after it a little salicylic wool may be applied over the punc- ture, fixed on with collodion, and allowed to remain till heahng has taken place. The elec- trolysis causes a good deal of pain, especially at the make and break of the current, and when its strength is increased, and it is therefore well to employ a general an'cesthetic. The current should be increased very gradually, and when the operation is completed it should be diminished gradually and not shut off abruptly, as otherwise considerable shock may be caused. Similarly, before reversing the current, its strength should be de- creased gradually almost to nothing. When the nasvus is situated over the fontanelle of a young infant, a watch must be kept on the pulse as the current is increased. If any sign of shock be noticed, the current must be diminished or shut off entirely. As the result of the electrolysis the naevus becomes hard, and this hardness may sometimes last several weeks before it disappears entirely. If the neevus be of any size, one sitting is rarely sufficient for a cure, Fig. 61.—Bipolar Fork Electrode. The needles are alternately positive and neg- ative, and are screwed in. The smaller figure shows the method of insulation. {Lewis Jones)