PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS 447 the most important of the determining factors are those which concern the patient and the nature and probable duration of the operation to be performed ; these must, therefore, be considered more in detail A dis- tinction, too, must be drawn between the anesthetic with which it is advisable to induce or commence the anaesthesia, and that with which it is possible to maintain or continue it. (1) Duration of tJie Operation.—Either nitrous oxide or ethyl chloride is available in operations of under three minutes. These include such operations of minor surgery as opening superficial abscesses, dilating and slitting up sinuses, some tenotomies, removing small aural polypi, passive movement of stiff joints, and, of course, the extraction of teeth. (2) Position of the Patient.—Neither chloroform, nor any mixture containing that drug, should be used with the patient sitting up in a chair ; such a proceeding is absolutely unjustifiable. Operations upon the cerebral hemispheres, and upon the mouth and tongue, do not really constitute exceptions to this general rule, for although the body is then often raised, the feet and legs remain horizontal. (3) Age of the Patient.—Some anaesthetists see no objection to the use of ether at any age, while others prefer to induce narcosis with chloro- form in the very young, and continue with ether afterwards. Until sufficient facility in the use of ether has been acquired, and unless one has constant practice with the drug, it is better to adopt some such age- limits as the following: Under 3 years of age . . Chloroform all through. From 3 to 12 . . . Mixture all through. From 12 to 60 . . . Ether all through. Over 60 ... . Induce with Mixture, increasing the pro- portion of ether in long operations. It is usually asserted, somewhat dogmatically, that children always take chloroform well. It must not be forgotten, however, that many accidents have occurred, and that in the opinion of some people the death-rate with children is as high, or even higher, than with adults. This apparent immunity of children ixom fatal accidents under chloroform is due to many causes, among which may be mentioned the undoubted fact that, owing to their greater vitality, children respond more readily than adults to any efforts that are made in the direction of resuscitation. (4) Co)idiiio)i of tJie Patient.—Here, again, some anaesthetists admii. of but few exceptions to the use of ether, only perhaps acute lung troubles, but, at hrst at any rate, better results will be obtained if the range of exceptions is somewhat enlarged. In the fat and plethoric . . Induce with Mixture and gradually in- crease the proportion of ether in long operations. Acute or very recent lung troubles .... Chloroform all through.