ANESTHETICS 472 ether when the vapour is too suddenly applied, or increased in strength too rapidly ; the treatment is obvious, namely, withdrawal or diminution in strength of the vapour and no further reference need be made to it here. The irritation of the ether vapour may sometimes cause a good deal of coughing, and if this does not subside in the course of a few minutes, the inhalation of a few drops (10-20) of chloroform will often have a good effect, and the ether inhaler can subsequently be re-applied. Asphyxial symptoms are usually associated with marked lividity and gasping for breath, and may be due to a variety of causes, such as the presence of foreign bodies (false teeth, detached nasal polypi, etc.), to excessive flow of mucus, to blood, to extraneous pressure upon the trachea, to falling back of the tongue over the glottis (sometimes termed ' swallowing the tongue '), etc. Under this head, too, may be included those cases de- scribed by Lord Lister, in which the soft structures at the back of the throat fall together like curtains in front of the glottis. Respiratory Paralysis.—Of course, under any of the above circum- stances, the breathing tends to fail ; but when we speak of ' failure of breathing' under anaesthetics, and especially chloroform, what is usually meant is the failure due to an overdose. The nervous system becoming paralysed, the medullary centres cease to act, and the respiratory move- ments, becoming feebler and feebler, at length stop altogether. The ashy-grey pallor and imperceptible pulse, the entire cessation of breath- ing, the complete relaxation of the tissues (extending sometimes even to the sphincters), the widely dilated pupils, the general aspect of the patient, not unlike the fades hippocraiica of actual death, are all very characteristic, and, in fact, may almost be said to be pathognomonic of chloroform poisoning ; sometimes, the respiratory failure is almost lightning-like in rapidity, but more often it is gradual and insidious in onset. As is well known, the clinical signs and symptoms of respiratory paralysis closely resemble, and are frequently associated and coincident with those due to syncope, and, on the other hand, obstruction to the breathing sooner or later leads to cardiac failure. In practice, it is often impossible to decide whether the respiratory or the cardio-vascular system was first affected, but it is of the utmost importance that the administrator should be able to appreciate the fact, that certain signs and symptoms are indicative of approaching danger from their very commencement. Such early recognition of symptoms is only possible when the administrator is unceasingly vigilant, and single-minded in his attention to his duties, and when thus recognised the mere withdrawal of the anaesthetic often suffices to correct the error, without subjecting the patient to any additional risk. It is to the respiratory and the circulatory systems, and especially the former, that the greatest attention should be devoted, and the slightest alteration in either one or the other should be carefully noted and watched.