TALIPES EQUINUS 333 which is described in connection with fractures. Lateral poroplastic splints moulded to the foot while it is held in proper position are also useful, as are also the sterilised wire-netting splints recommended for fractures (see Vol. IL). The chief point to remember in the after-treatment of excision of the astragalus is that there is a tendency to inversion of the foot which must be carefully girarded against. The splint should be kept on for six weeks, when the patient may be furnished with a suitable apparatus and allowed to walk. The apparatus should consist of a boot to which are attached lateral irons fastened to a band around the upper part of the leg and furnished with hinges opposite the ankle joint (see Fig. io8). This boot should be worn for eight months or a year, when it will generally be found that the foot has become firm in its i;ew ]wsition. Partial Resection of the Astragalus.—When the defor- mity is not so great, it may suffice to expose the front of the astragalus by incisions similar to those just described, and to chip off enough bone from its upper and anterior surfaces, with a chisel or a gouge to enable the articular surface to pass beneath the malleolar arch, and then to bring the foot into the rect- angular position, after division of the tendo Achillis. This operation, when feasible, is perhaps the best for adult cases, but in children excision of the astragalus gives such perfect results that it is preferable. If removal of a portion of the astragalus be practised, care must be taken to preserve the movements of the ankle joint by passive and active movements and massage. The movements should be begun within two days of the operation, and in the intervals the foot should be kept on a posterior splint with a hinged foot-piece which can be pushed up so as to over-correct the deformity. Amputation.—Amputation is rarely called for, but when the con- dition IS due to infantile paralysis, when there is extreme wasting of the parts, when the nutrition of the foot is markedly interfered with, when the latter is constantly subject to ulceration, and when in fact the Fig. io8.—Boot for use after E.xcision of the .Astragalus. This is fitted with stout lateral leg-irons fastened into the heel belosv and furnished with a hinge-joint opposite the ankle. The chief object of the apparatus is to prevent inversion of the foot.