202 WOUNDS scalp in the frontal region, just within the line of the hair; a flap is turned down so as to allow a half-inch trephine hole to be cut in the skull. The circle of bone is removed, a hypodermic needle is pushed through the dura into the brain and 5 c.c. of the serum are injected slowly. The needle is withdrawn and the wound sutured without replacing the crown of bone ; a similar operation is then per- formed on the opposite side. The opening in the skull can be felt clearly through the scalp, and it is easy to give a second dose, should one be required, without re-opening the wound, by thrusting the needle through the skin into the brain. It is thus possible to bring the anti- toxin into actual contact with the poisoned nerve-cells and in some cases with very satisfactory re- sults. The effect of the serum is sometimes very remarkable, but it is not immediate, and in spite of its use the spasms may recur so severely as to require the administration of chloro- form ; they are usually, however, at longer intervals and less severe. Treatment of the Wound.—We do not know the exact modus operandi of the tetanus bacillus, though it is seldom limited to the wound; but nevertheless it is well in the early stage to give the patient chloroform, open up the wound and wash away all decomposing material, and then to clip away any gangrenous shreds, thoroughly sponge the wound out with pure carbolic acid, and pack it with cyanide gauze sprinkled with iodoform. The dressing then need not be disturbed for two or three days, so that the patient is saved the pain and the risk of convulsions involved in attention to the wound. Amputation is frequently performed in cases of wounds of the extremities, but, as the disease has generally established itself in the system, the operation is useless, and may be hurtful from the pain and disturbance it causes. If anything is to be effected by local treatment it will be done as effectually by thorough disinfection of the wound as by amputation, and with less risk to the patient. Drugs.—Whether the serum be injected or not, it is necessary to administer sedatives, and the one most in vogue is chloral in large doses; an adult may have as much as 150 or even 200 grains in the course of twenty-four hours. Care must be taken not to poison the patient with '*Wa!!WfF.'' Fig. 57.—Intra-cerebral Injection of Anti-tetanic Serum.—On the left side the incision is shown ; on the right side the flap has been turned down, the circle of bone removed and the injecting needle thrust vertically through the dura mater.