DEFORMITIES 334 foot would be useless even were it restored to its proper position, amputa- tion will be far more satisfactory than an attempt to retain the foot and restore its functions by apparatus. Amputation of the leg at the seat of election will be the operation of choice if the quadriceps and the hamstrings are not paralysed ; if they are, it will be necessary to disarti- culate at the knee-joint or amputate through the femoral condyles. {b) In the second class of these severe cases of talipes equinus, those, namely, in which there is marked talipes cavus, the treatment appropriate for the latter condition must be employed also {vide infra). TALIPES CAVUS. Pes cavus is an acquired deformity usually due to infantile paralysis. It is due to a dropping of the front of the foot, with secondary con- traction of the plantar fascia. When the weight is borne upon the sole, the patient generally suffers pain from stretching of the plantar fascia and the ligaments ; callosities and corns form over the metatarsal bones, and may cause great suffering. Excision of a Wedge from the Tarsus.—Should division of the plantar fascia (see p. 329) and wrenching fail, it may become necessary to remove a portion of the tarsus, in order to bring the sole of the foot flat upon the ground, and this should be done and the foot brought straight before the tendo Achillis is divided. The operation is performed through horizontal incisions along the inner and outer sides of the foot, at about the level of the scaphoid bone ; these are carried down to the bone, all the soft structures being peeled off the plantar and dorsal surfaces of the tarsus with a periosteum detacher. The soft parts are held aside by copper spatulae introduced between them and the bones, and a wedge- shaped portion is cut from the tarsus by means of a saw insinuated between the spatulae and the bone. The portion of bone removed should have its base directed towards the dorsum of the foot, and its apex towards the sole. The bones should be removed without any regard to their articu- lations ; the block excised generally consists of the head of the astragalus and portions of the scaphoid and cuboid. When the dimensions of the wedge have been judged accurately the foot can be brought into position ; further portions of thi' bones may be removed with a chisel should there be any difficulty in doing this. Division of the plantar fascia and wrenching of the foot should be practised before the soft parts are separated from the bones, as it would be impossible to do this after the bones have been divided, and, therefore, more bone than is actually necessary would have to be taken away. The size of the wedge should be such as to allow the patient to walk upon the under surfaces instead of the ends of the metatarsal bones. It should not be so great as to obliterate the arch of the foot entirely, and it is well to make the wedge rather small in the first place, and then, if