TUBERCULOSIS 232 injured. The only point of importance with regard to drugs is that only those should be ordered which will increase the nutrition of the body. Of these the best seems to be cod liver oil, which may be given pure or as one of the many emulsions upon the market. As much of the drug should be given as is possible without disordering the digestion. It is well to begin with teaspoonful doses three or four times a day, and to increase it until the patient cannot bear any more ; the oil should be given, however well-nourished or healthy the patient may appear. As a rule, children take the emulsions well. When pure cod liver oil is used it is probably best to float it on milk. Cod liver oil may be administered to children who resent taking the oil as ordinarily prescribed, by replacing the oil in which sardines are preserved by a tasteless variety of cod liver oil and serving it on the plate with the fish. The tin is filled up from time to time with the oil, and children who are fond of sardines will often take large quantities of the oil in this manner without demur. The drug is apt to disagree during warm weather, and it should be intermitted during the summer ; useful substitutes are large quantities of cream (given in tea, with junket, or with stewed fruit), fat bacon or ham for breakfast, and salads dressed with an abundance of olive oil. A very popular drug in tuberculosis is syrup of the iodide of iron, in doses of fifteen to twenty-five minims three times a day, mixed with water or milk, but it is questionable whether it does any good. Among other drugs, iron is of value, either as tincture of perchloride of iron in ten- or fifteen-minim doses, or as Blaud's preparation in doses of from three to ten grains, according to the age of the patient. Tincture of nux vomica is useful when the appetite is bad ; in fact, any drug that will increase the general nutrition of the patient may be administered with advantage. Giiaiacol in doses of one to five minims is much in vogue at the present time, and seems to be of some service. When exercise cannot be obtained, as may happen when the situation of the disease demands absolute rest in bed, benefit may be obtained by general massage. This, for example, may be usefully applied to the extremities when the spine is the seat of the disease, or to the upper extremities or the trunk when the lower limbs are affected, and in this way a substitute for exercise can be obtained. By these means both the appetite and the general nutrition can be well sustained. Efforts must also be made to diminish the inflammation about the affected area, and the tendency to cure is greatly strengthened if these be successful. The first essential in this part of the treatment is absolute rest, for, apart from the presence of the tuberculous disease, movement promotes the inflammatory condition. Sometimes, as in joint-disease (see Vol. III.), the pressure of the inflamed articular surfaces against each other due to the tonic contraction of the muscles around the diseased joint keeps up the inflammation, and therefore rest must be combined with extension, so as to relax the muscles.