5o6 EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD gone at present, to be a reliable one, although a large amount of informa- tion is still necessary before the information which it yields can be regarded as conclusive. SUMMARY. The following is a brief resume of the condition of the blood in some of the diseases, in which it may afford some assistance in diagnosis. Suppuyation.—^There is a marked leucocylosis, the numbers rising to about 18,000, or usually higher. The increase is due mainly to an in- creased influx of polynuclear cells, which may form 95 per cent, of the total leucocytes : the lymphocytes and eosinophile cells are reduced, especially the latter. The glycogenic degeneration of the leucocytes is well marked. The red corpuscles show no change, or, in severe cases, there may be a slight anaemia. SepticcEinia.—^The changes in the leucocytes are, in general, similar to those of the localised suppuration, but in very severe cases there may be leucopenia instead of leucocytosis : the relative increase of the poly- nuclears and diminution of the lymphocytes and eosinophiles will occur, and the glycogenic degeneration is usually very obvious. A progressive anaemia is the rule, and the amount of haemoglobin lost from day to day may be taken as a rough guide as to the severity of the infection. A bacteriological examination of the blood will probably show the presence of pathogenic bacteria, but this is not always the case unless repeated examinations are made. Tuberculosis.—In uncomplicated tubercle there is usually no change other than a slight leucopenia with a relative increase of the lymphocytes. These alterations are, as a rule, insufficient to justify a diagnosis. The red corpuscles are unchanged, except in the later stages, in which the patient becomes cachectic. A diagnosis may be made in a certain proportion of cases by means of the opsonic index. In tuberculous meningitis there is a decided leucocytosis, which may reach 25,000. Tuberculous pleurisy is, as a rule, unaccompanied by leucocytosis, but there may be a slight rise. The occurrence of a secondary infection, e.g. in a tuberculous abscess or sinus, causes the appearance of the blood changes described under the heading of suppuration. Syphilis.—In the earlier stages the blood is usually normal; if the cases is severe, there may be slight anaemia. In the secondary stage there is marked anaemia, in which the haemo- globin may fall to 40 per cent-^or lower, and a moderate leucocytosis (not often exceeding 15,000) due mainly to an increase of lymphocytes. In the tertiary stage there is nothing characteristic, though in cachectic