DEFORMITIES 348 already described (see Fig. lOo) which should be firmly fastened on the limb with bandages while the foot is in its faulty position ; then one portion of the splint is grasped with each hand, and the foot is slowly brought into a position of eversion and dorsi-flexion, i.e. over-correction. The copper bar yields to the pressure of the hand but is stout enough to prevent recurrence of the deformity from muscular action. The splint should be worn continuously night and day, and should only be removed to allow of the manipulations and massage already described. At the end of three or four months from the commencement of treat- ment carried out methodically in this manner, the foot will retain its position, even if the splint be left off for some little time; the splint however, should be continued for at least two or three years after the deformity has been corrected. It must be remembered that, although the resistance of the muscles and the ligaments may be overcome quickly, it takes a long time for the bones which are altered in direction to be moulded to their new position, so that, if the retentive apparatus be left off too soon, the deformity is almost certain to recur. When the child begins to walk, a Scarpa's shoe (see p. 354) will be more convenient and satisfactory than the arrangement just described. So far, we have been speaking only of cases for which an intelligent nurse can be obtained, who can give the child constant attention,— conditions which do not exist among the poor. When there is difficulty in obtaining proper attendance, or when the parents are too stupid to carry out the treatment properly, the best procedure is to put the foot up in plaster of Paris in the over-corrected position quite early. This is, however, not so good a method as the one recommended above, as the plaster of Paris encloses the leg, and, therefore, the nutrition of the muscles is interfered with to some extent. The plaster also gets soiled by urine, and gets loose, and the skin beneath becomes irritated and often ulcerated. In addition to these drawbacks, the foot of an infant is so small and yielding that it is very difficult to get a proper purchase upon it. If plaster of Paris be employed, it should be renewed at least once a week, and great care must be taken that the foot is held in the over-cor- rected position whilst the plaster is setting. This is difficult to do when the foot is held in position by the hands, because the bony points that have to be grasped in order to keep the foot in good position, are just those on which it is necessary that the plaster should get a good grip, and when the hand is removed, these parts are unsupported, and must be covered subsequently. In order to avoid this difficulty the best plan, in our opinion, is to put the foot up first upon a splint (preferably Sayre's apparatus), and then to encase the whole arrangement in plaster of Paris. The foot and leg, as high as the knee are dusted with boric powder, and a woollen stocking is drawn over them. A piece of wood of suitable thickness, which may be cut from a cigar-box for a young child, is shaped to the sole of the