TALIPES EOUINUS 3^7 At a later stage the following arrangement will be found of value. A piece of wood of suitable size and thicl<:ness, long enough to extend from the heel to at least three inches beyond the tips of the toes, is cut to the shape of the foot. A piece of strap])ing, between two and three inches broad, and sufficiently long to reach from the middle of the thigh to the toes and then twice the length of the splint, is applied first to the upper surface of the splint, beginning near its anterior extremity, carried along the upper surface, round the posterior edge, and then along the lower Fic. 104,—Sayre's Apparatus for use after Tenotomy of the Tendo Achillis. The method of application is given sulliciently in detail in the te,\t. The smaller sketch above is to illustrate the method of fastening the strapping to the foot-piece of the splint ; it will be seen that it commences on the upper surface of the splint near its anterior margin, runs backwards along tlie upper surface, down roimd the posterior edge and finally runs forward along the under surface and round the anterior margin of the splint, where it terminates in a long free end which is shown applied to the tliigh in the larger drawing. The length of the foot-piece varies ; the more leverage it is desired to e.xcrt the further should it project beyond the toes. surface and over the anterior edge again. This part of the strapping is then bound lirmly to the splint hy two or three transverse pieces of strapping (see Fig. 104). The splint thus prepared is padded, and fastened at the heel, sandalwise, by a broad strip of strapping passing around the instep and the posterior end of the splint ; the splint is then secured to the foot b\' a bandage. The long end of the strapping which hangs over from the front of the splint is now applied along the front of the thigh, the foot meanwhile being held at right angles and the knee fully extended. The strapping is fastened by a bandage commencing just below the patella and carried up to the centre of the thigh. The free end of the strapping is turned down over the upper edge of the bandage, and