23 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION to obtain it is to surround the part with a large mass of cotton-wool or silk waste in even sheets or layers, and then to apply a bandage over this as tightly as possible. Some starch or silicate of soda solution should be rubbed into the bandage to prevent it from becoming loose. This method is particularly applicable to cases of joint disease. An elastic bandage may be applied lightly outside the wool. Pressure may be also applied by means of Scott's dressing, which combines pressure with counter-irritation, and is most useful in joint diseases. Compound mercury ointment {ungnentum hydrargyri co.) is spread upon chamois leather which is cut into strips and applied firmly, like other forms of strapping, in imbricated layers around the diseased part. Outside this a layer of cotton-wool is applied and bandaged on firmly ; the limb is then placed upon a splint. Scott's dressing may be applied more eco- nomically by spreading the ointment upon a large piece of lint, which is then cut into strips, and these are applied to the limb in the usual imbricated layers. Outside these, ordinary strapping is applied in a similar manner ; a splint is not always necessary. The part should be shaved before the strapping is applied, and the dressing should be renewed every four or five days, both because the skin is apt to become raw, and also because the strapping slips and the dressing becomes loose. Massage is chiefly of value when the chronic inflammatory process has come nearly to a standstill, and it is a question of causing absorption of the inflammatory products. Massage employed during the active, stage is apt to make matters worse. The essential principles of massage are first to break up the products of the chronic inflammation, and then to promote the absorption of the broken-up materials by the lymphatic vessels. There are various ways of breaking up the new material ; the mildest form is termed ' friction massage,' and in it the part is rubbed in a circular manner with two or three fingers of one hand for some time, and then the material is forced into the lymphatic vessels by an upward uniform pressure, called ' effleurage.' In effleurage, the part which has been subjected to the friction is grasped with the whole hand, and is firmly and gently squeezed in an upward direction. This is repeated a number of times, when the friction is resumed, and again the effleurage follows. When the material is more difficult to break up, another action, called ' petrissage ' or firm kneading of the part, is resorted to. The part is grasped between the fingers and the thumb, and is firmly kneaded ; after the kneading, the broken-up products are forced into the lymphatics by effleurage. When the material is still more dense, and especially when it is limited to a small area, the action of ' tapotement ' is employed ; in this the part is firmly tapped, either with the fingers or a special instrument, and, after repeated and violent tappings as hard as the patient can bear, effleurage is again carried out. At first, massage should be very gentle, but the more forcible measures may. be adopted as the patient becomes accustomed to it. As a rule, a daily sitting of