III OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT water, or should that fail, by the application of ice to the neighbourhood of the bleeding part. Leiter's tubes, which have already been mentioned in connection with inflammation (see p. lo), are very effectual in checking bleeding. For example, in haemorrhage from the urethral mucous membrane, due to injury or gonorrhoea, a very eificient jilan is to coil Leiter's tubes around the penis, and pass a stream of ice-cold water through them. The effect of the cold is to make the penis contract, and therefore it is well to pass a straight catheter a short distance up the urethra before fixing on the coil. The result of applying cold in this manner is that contraction of the cutaneous vessels occurs followed by contraction of the deeper-seated ones, and if this be kept up for a short time coagulation and permanent occlusion of the bleeding vessels will follow. The pre- cautions to be (jbserved in using these coils are mentioned on p. lo. Heat.—Heat is almost equally efficacious in arresting bleeding, and doucliing the bleeding part with hot water has a powerful hemostatic effect. The temperature of the water should range between iio° and 120° P., and the condition for which it is chiefly employed is post- partum hfemorrhage, the uterus being flooded with water at this temperature. Styptics.—Htemorrhage may also be arrested by producing coagu- lation of the blood as it escapes from the vessel by means of styptics. It is useless to pour the styptic solution into a bleeding wound or to swab one over with it. The bleeding must first be temporarily arrested, because the clot produced by the styptic must form actually in the orifice of the bleeding vessel and not on the surface of the wound if the method is to be effectual. The bleeding area should be compressed in some suitable manner, so that the bleeding is temporarily arrested ; it is then painted over with the styptic solution, and the pressure is maintained for a short time in order to keep the wound from bleeding, and to give the styptic time to act. The styptics usually employed are the liquor ferri perchlor. B.P., the liquor ferri perchlor. fort, mixed with an equal part of glycerine, or tincture of matico. Perchloride of iron is a powerful styptic, but it often causes a slough on the surface of the wound, which is a sovuxe of danger in the mouth or in any part where sepsis subsequently occurs, as septic micro-organisms are likely to grow in it. Adrenalin chloride (i in looo) is not open to this serious objection, and is a very efficient styptic when the hfemorrhage comes from small arteries. It is not of use in bleeding from veins; for example, it is useless in cases of haemorrhage from the venous channels of the diploe. Lactate of calcium has been employed recently in the treatment of hfemorrhage, more especially as a prophylactic before an operation in which severe hfemorrhage is likely to be encountered, or when the coagulability of the blood is imperfect. It should be given for several days before the operation in doses of five to ten grains three times a day, or in single doses of thirty to sixty grains