373 GENU VALGUM general treatment must be directed to the removal of the cause which produces softening of the bones, and as, in the great majority of cases, this is rickets, the general treatment is that suitable for this affection ; this is dealt with fully in Vol. II. and has been referred to in speaking of bow legs (see p. 363). Local Treatment.—This will depend primarily upon the degree of the deformity. Up to a certain point, divergence of the legs is a con- dition that may be remedied comparatively easily by manipulations or apparatus ; when it gets beyond that point, operative interference will be necessary. The first essential is to estimate the amount of deformity present, and this is best done by making the patient lie fiat upon the back upon a table (not a yielcUng bed), and bringing the femora parallel with one another, with the patellfe looking directly forwards and the internal condyles separated by about half an inch. The distance between the internal malleoli is then measured, and those cases in which the distance between them does not exceed four inches are reckoned as mild ones which will get well without operation. When the interval is greater, the case may be reckoned as bad, and when it is six inches or more, operative interference will be required almost certainly before the deformity can be remedied. In these bad cases it will be noted that the patella no longer lies in the inter-condyloid notch, but is displaced outwards. Cases in which the separation between the malleoli does not exceed an inch and a half.—Here there is every probability that the limbs will become straight without any special local treatment if the child be merely kept from walking, and if proper attention be paid to the general treatment. In deference to the wishes of friends, however, it is often wise to employ some local treatment. The limb may be massaged twice or thrice daily, and, during the process, the nurse should fix the thigh, and keep the knee extended, with the patella directed forwards and should then press the leg and foot gently inwards, and hold it in this position for a few minutes at a time. If this be carefully done, and the child prevented from walking, the deformity is most likely to disappear without further treatment, but the restriction as to walking must not be removed until the leg is practically straight and until the active period of rickets has passed, until in fact the child is four or five years old. It is often very difficult to prevent children from walking or crawling, and in some cases the general health may even suffer from a constant enforcement of the recumbent position. Under these circumstances, the rule may be relaxed to the following extent. The child may be allowed to go out into the sunshine and run about in the fresh air, but all walking or crawling about the house should be prohibited. As soon as he comes indoors he should be made to lie down, and the limbs sliould be rubbed, and the manipulations for the rectification of the deformity indicated above should be carried out.