DEFORMITIES 314 There are also many other less frequent causes of talipes. For example, it may result from the contraction of cicatrices after wounds, ulcers of the leg, burns, etc., or as the result of joint diseases in which proper attention has not been paid to the position of the foot, and some- times also it may occur from the long-continued assumption of a faulty position without any disease in the ankle. In these cases, the usual de- formity seen is talipes equinus, which is due to the natural pointing of the toes, aided in many cases by the weight of the bed-clothes. Again, in cases of marked ricketty curvatures of the lower extremity, there is often some form of talipes present, particularly valgus. The affection may also occur as the result of osteitis ; acute osteo-myelitis affecting only one of the bones of the leg may cause the destruction of the epiphyseal line in the affected bone, so that there is arrest of growth in it; the result is that the foot will be displaced as the other bone grows, and talipes will ensue. It is quite common as a result of fractures about the ankle joint when reduction has not been satisfactory. TREATMENT.—General Indications.—If the affection be of congenital origin, the treatment in the earHer stages need not be directed so much against contraction of the muscles as against the altera- tions which have occurred in the shape of the bones, and its aim must be to rectify the altered direction of these whilst they are still soft. If, however, the condition remains untreated until later life, a satisfactory result may only be obtainable by an operation dealing with tendons as well as the bones. In the acquired variety, on the other hand, the pri- mary lesions are usually situated in the muscles and soft parts, and the alteration in the shape and structure of the bones only occurs when the deformity has been allowed to continue for a considerable time ; hence, in the early stage the chief attention must be directed to the muscles and hgaments. In the spastic cases, means must be taken to reheve the spasm, while at the same time division of some of the tendons may be necessary. When the club-foot is of paralytic origin, the chief point in the treatment is to restore the power of the muscles by massage, electricity, and the use of suitable apparatus to prevent over-stretching of the weak muscles and undue contraction of the sound ones. Much of the disability may be due to the fact that certain muscles are overstretched, and appro- priate splinting, by relaxing their tendons, may be followed by extensive recovery of function. By means of tendon transplantation also, healthy muscles may be made to perform the functions of paralysed ones, while arthrodesis, or removal of the articular cartilage, may be required to transform certain flail-hke joints in which all the muscles concerned are paralysed, into fixed ones (see p. 341). Occasionally also it may be possible to improve matters by grafting a sound nerve into the paralysed one. When the affection is caused by cicatrices, these must be removed or divided. The earUer the treatment is begun, the better is the prospect of a good