SCOLIOSIS 417 The dumb-bells should not exceed a pound in weight at the outset ; as the patient becomes more used to the exercises, the weight may be increased, as may also the length of time during which the exercises are performed. The home exercises recommended above may be done with dumb-bells, and are then equivalent to exercises carried out against resistance. Riding exercise is useful, so long as it is not allowed to cause fatigue. A girl should ride upon the same side of the horse as that upon which the convexity of the curve is, so that there will be a tendency to open out the curvature. In the early stages of the treatment it is important to impress upon the parents that, when any of these forms of exercise cause fatigue, they should be stopped at once and the child allowed to rest. Massage.—Massage to the muscles of the back should never be omitted. It should be employed twice a day for about half an hour, after breakfast and before going to bed. When tlie ciirvatio'e is very marked, it \\\\\ be necessary to em{)loy special exercises and other procedures designed to act directly upon the curvature, in addition to those which aim at improving the muscles generally. The case will then be closely allied to those about to be descrilied in the following paragraphs, and the exercises will be the same. The Curvatures of Adolescence.—The treatment of the cur- vatures w hich occur between puberty and the final cessation of growth often presents considerable difficulty owing to the impossibility of in- sisting upon the healthy outdoor life which it is comparatively easy to secure for younger patients. The general indications for ircaiuieni are similar to those for the pre- ceding group. Any mechanical cause must be removed, and the general health attended to; menstrual irregularities, anaemia, or constipation must be treated; careful personal hygiene should be insisted upon, and the patient compelled to take regular exercise, to avoid late hours and hot, ill-ventilated rooms, and to take simple, regular, and easily digested meals. Fatigue and faulty positions should be avoided, and any desks, chairs, or music-stools that the patient uses must be made to suit the individual requirements of the case. A cold sponge bath in summer and a tepid one in winter should be taken on rising in the morning, and the back muscles should be massaged and developed by the exercises which wiU presently be described. The following breathing exercises are also good : 1. The patient stands erect with the arms stretched out at right angles to the body and the palms downwards. 2. The arms are rotated outwards so as to bring the palms upwards and put the pectoral muscles on the stretch. 3. The arms are now brought vertically above the head, the patient in- spiring meanwhile through the nose; the breath is held while the patient counts five and then is allowed to escape as the arms fall to the side of the body. I. ■ EE