4i8 DEFORMITIES The treatment of the curvature will vary according to the flexibility of the spine—that is to say, according to the straightening produced when the patient is suspended. We may divide these cases into (a) those in which the curve can be obliterated, (/3) those in which the curve can be ameliorated but not entirely obliterated, and (y) those in which no altera- tion can be produced. (a) The eases in whieh the curve can be obliterated.—Here the pro- gnosis is good, as the muscular apparatus is probably alone at fault, and no bony or ligamentous changes have yet occurred in the spine. The object of the treatment, therefore, is to strengthen the back muscles, and thus enable them to perform their function of keeping the spine erect. One of the most important ways of doing this is by suitable exercises. Exercises.—A multitude of different exercises have been designed for the treatment of these cases, many of which are extremely complicated. There are, however, no specific exercises for the cure of this condition, and the surgeon can easily design efficient ones for himself by observing accurately the changes that have occurred and the muscles that are at fault, and ordering movements which will bring into play the defective muscles, and mechanically rectify the physical changes in the trunk. These exercises should always be carried out in the presence of some one whose business it is to see that they are properly and regu- larly performed for the requisite length of time. The simplest plan is for the surgeon to supervise the first performance of each group of exercises as they are taught, and to point out to the gym- nasium master or to the parents the exact manner in which they are to be done. It is well to teach a fresh set of exercises at each sitting, or each alternate one, so as to stimulate the patient's interest as much as possible ; and when the whole series has been learnt, the performance should be varied judiciously. The exercises should be so planned that they are carried out first in the horizontal, then in the sitting, and finally in the standing position, as the muscular strength improves. An important point is that many of the exercises are performed against resistance, the surgeon, or some form of elastic apparatus, opposing the action of the muscles. After the exercises are over, the patient should recline upon a couch, in the prone position, for at