SYPHILIS 2l8 At one time the question whether mercury should be given during the primary stage was much debated. The view very widely held was that it was not advisable to put the patient upon a mercurial course, since the diagnosis of syphilis at this stage was seldom beyond the possibility of a mistake, and the patient might thus be salivated or submitted to a tedious and prolonged course of mercury unnecessarily. The diagnosis of the disease, however, can now be settled with certainty in some cases by the discovery of the spirochgeta, and with considerable probabiUty in others by Wassermann's test (see Appendix), and this objection therefore falls to the ground in these cases. It may be laid down as a general rule that mercurial treatment should be begun as soon as the diagnosis can be made. During the primary stage iron is of great value and may be given as Blaud's i3ills (five to ten grains three times daily immediately after food) in capsules or cachets. Cachectic subjects should be given a tonic such as half a drachm of Easton's syrup three times a day in a wineglassful of water. The General Treatment of Secondary Syphilis.—The principal drug employed in the treatment of the secondary stage is mercury, and the chief points to be considered are in connection with its administration. Whilst mercury is being taken, the following points should be attended to: (1) Only plain and nourishing] food should be taken, indigestible matters, spices, and condiments being avoided. (2) Alcohol should be given up, unless the patient is accustomed to take it regularly, when a small amount, of a light claret, hock, or sauterne may be allowed. (3) Regular exercise should be taken ; but violent forms, such as football, hunting, and the like, must be avoided, as otherwise greater quantities of mercury will be required to bring the patient properly under its influence. It has long been recognised that persons taking mercury are prone to catarrhs of a severe type. (4) The care of the teeth is of the highest importance. If tartar be allowed to accumulate on them, salivation may occur before the patient is fully under the influence of the drug, and there may be considerable difficulty in continuing the mercury on account of the premature tender- ness of the gums. The teeth should be brushed frequently during the day, and an astringent mouth-wash containing alum and tincture of myrrh, or ten grains of chlorate of potash to the ounce of water, may be employed if there be any tenderness. (5) Smoking should be prohibited because the irritation it gives rise to predisposes to and keeps up throat, mouth, and tongue affections. Modes of Administration of Mercury.—Mercury may be adminis- tered by the mouth, by the skin, and by intra-muscular injection. Adminis- tration by the mouth has many advantages, and we recommend it for all cases except those in which there is some definite indication for its