EFFECTS OF INTENSE COLD i8i than when the atmosphere is still. The effect of cold is to cause great local contraction of the vessels, so that the part at first becomes livid and ultimately white. On the cessation of the cold, reaction takes place ; the vessels become greatly dilated, and stasis is apt to occur and may end in thrombosis if the reaction be too severe. When death results from cold, the most common appearance met with post-mortem is thrombosis of the vessels of the internal organs. Various other local changes are descriljed as the result of cold, the most important being degeneration or inflamma- tion of nerves ; these may possibly have something to do with the peculiarly languid ulcerations which affect parts that have been exposed to severe cold. The changes probably result from thrombosis of the nutrient vessels of the nerves. The clinical effects of cold may be divided into three degrees. The first degree corresponds to the first degree of burns: it consists simply of erythema of the part, and is a reactionary phenomenon : the second degree corresponds to the second degree of burns, at any rate to a great extent ; and the third degree, or frost-bite proper, may be taken to represent the remaining degrees of burns. Chilblains.—The first effect of cold is erythema. The skin becomes of a wine-red or violet colour, which disappears on pressure ; the cutaneous circulation is slow and there is swelling of the skin and subcutaneous tissues, with a feeling of numbness in the part. In addition to this feeling of numbness there is much itching and pricking, if heat be applied too suddenly. This condition generally disappears in a few days ; if, however, the exposure to cold, followed by the application of heat, be repeated, it may lead to the condition known as chilblain which, if not properly treated, may become cracked and ulcerated. Ulcers.—The second degree of cold leads to the formation of bullae containing clear or bloody fluid, and these may be followed rapidly by atonic ulcers which show little tendency to heal ; there is also smarting in the part. When the condition is yet more chronic we have what are practically ulcerating chilblains, the skin being sw^ollen, oedematous, cracked, and marked by shallow fissures which yield a yellow or brownish liquid, very prone to dry up. These cracks enlarge and form obstinate ulcers. Frostbite.—The third degree is that in which the skin and a variable amount of the deeper tissues die ; the skin becomes livid and mottled, and numerous large bullae, containing rusty-coloured serum, are formed, or else sloughing takes place. If warmth be applied too quickly, the condition results in severe inflammation, followed by gangrene. The gangrene spreads slowly, and there is an imperfect and temporary line of demarcation much the same as in the senile form ; if opportunity be afforded, the dead part dries up, but the gangrene is not typically a dry one from the first. In other cases the sloughing is quite superficial, but the frostbite is followed by permanent malnutrition, with anesthesia,