30 ^ INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS After-tpeatment.—In considering the after-treatment, it may be pointed out that in practice we have to deal with two types of acute abscess:— i. Abscesses of which the type is the ordinary subcutaneous abscess due to the various forms of staphylococci, in which there are no sloughs and in which good drainage can be obtained. ii. Abscesses in which portions of dead tissae (sloughs, necrosed bone, etc.) are present, those due to other than the ordinary pyo- genic organisms, or those in which drainage is imperfect, e.g., appendicitic abscesses. The subsequent progress of these cases, and to some extent their after- treatment, differs considerably. As Lord Lister pointed out long ago, if an abscess of the first type be thoroughly opened, a drainage tube of sufficient size inserted, precautions taken not to let in fresh organisms, and the wound not irritated by injections, suppuration ceases at once ; a serous discharge takes place for a few days and the wound heals rapidly. In these cases the dressings, as a rule, should be changed on the following day, when it will be found that the swelling has diminished considerably. The drainage tube should not be removed, for if this were done it might be difficult to replace it; but if it is being pushed forward the retaining stitches should be cut and the projecting portion of tube removed. A fresh dressing is then applied, the orifice of the wound and the skin around being previously washed with a i in 2000 sublimate solution. The question as to when the dressing should be changed again will be determined by the amount of discharge. When the abscess was originally small, the second dressing can usually be left on for three or four days ; when, however, it was large, and there is much serous oozing, it is well to change the dressing on the following day. In most cases the drainage tube can be left out on the fourth or fifth day; the chief factor which determines this point is the amount of serous discharge present. When there is only a slight discharge there need be no hesitation in leaving out the tube ; but if it be stiU considerable, or purulent, a tube long enough to extend from the orifice in the skin to the entrance of the abscess cavity should be retained, as otherwise the skin wound may close with great rapidity, and the fluid wiU then be retained in the interior, and lead to reproduction of the abscess. In the second type of case in which the sepsis is more acute, and especially in those in which organisms such as the bacillus coli are present, the discharge remains purulent and may be so foul and toxic that further measures are necessary. Whenever it is feasible, a free dependent open- ing should be made in these cases, but in some, especially in the abdomen, this may not be possible. Under such circumstances it may be advisable to S5n-inge out the cavity once or twice daily. Care must be taken to provide a free exit for the irrigating fluid so as to avoid any risk of ruptur- ing the abscess waU. The ordinary antiseptic solutions are of no use