OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT when ligatures had to separate, and when, therefore, there was a danger of secondary haemorrhage ; now that hgatures are cut short and never separate from the divided ends of the artery, there is no risk of secondary haemorrhage, and torsion is rarely used except for small vessels. It is, however, very useful for them in certain cases, such as those in which there is a certainty or a probability of the wound becoming septic. Here the absence of ligatures from the wound may allow much earlier healing than would otherwise occur. It is also useful for superficial vessels such as those of the skin. If these be ligatured, the ends of the ligatures are apt to project between the lips of the wound. A B c Fig. 29.—Pressure Forcei's for Arrest of H.tMORRHAGE.—The above are the varieties in common use. A, Lawson Tail's, very similar to Spencer Wells's, but tapered at the points so as to facilitate the application of 0 ligature ; this is still further facilitated in the pattern B, which is useful in tying vessels at the bottom of a deep wound. C, Grcig Smith's ; these forceps are designed to crush the walls of a vessel firmly together, and at the same time to cut through their inner and middle coats. The full-size illus- tration of the blade shows how this is done. Pressure.—Pressure is also a very important method of arresting haemorrhage, especially of the venous or capillary variety ; venous bleed- ing can be readily arrested by it, and in many cases in which it is undesirable to have ligatures on the surface of the wound, as for instance, in operations about the lips, the surgeon makes use of pressure to arrest the haemorrhage. The pressure stops the flow of blood through the vessel while a clot is being formed. A method of employing pressure that has enjoyed a considerable vogue is by means of the 'graduated compress.' When tlie bleeding point is deeply seated, and it is not desired to open up the wound, pressure may be employed to arrest the haemorrhage. If, however, the pressure be applied in the form of a simple pad over the surface of the wound, the bleeding may go on in the interior ; a good