TUMOURS 246 If a portion of the tumour be removed for examination at one operation, the wound then closed, and another radical operation be undertaken at a later date when the nature of the disease has been revealed by the micro- scope, the probabihty will be that many new points of growth will have already developed and that the infection will have become disseminated over a wide area. Hence, in making an exploratory operation it is most important to avoid infecting the healthy portions of the wound with material from the tumour, and not to allow any long time to elapse between the exploration and the radical operation, if one be decided on. It is only when a radical operation is possible, should the tumour turn out to be malignant, that an exploratory incision into the mass is allowable. If it can be avoided, no tumour suspected of malignancy should be incised in situ ; the whole tumour should be removed before incising it. A doubtful tumour of the breast, for example, should be cut out entire and examined outside the body. Even then it is impossible to be sure that lymphatic vessels containing tumour cells may not be cut through; but the risk of infecting the wound is very much less than if an incision were made directly into the tumour itself. When it is not feasible or advisable to remove the tumour in the first instance and examine it outside the body, there may be enlarged glands in the neighbourhood which can be taken away and subjected to microscopical examination. All instruments or gloves employed in this prehminary operation should be looked upon as probably infected, and if a further operation be pro- ceeded with at the time, fresh instruments and gloves should be used. The exploration should be followed by the radical operation, if it be decided to carry that out, with the least possible loss of time. Hence, leave should be obtained to proceed with this forthwith after the exploration has been made. It is well to have a pathologist present at the exploration, who will make a rapid section and give a microscopical diagnosis of the tumour on the spot. As a rule, this only means a short delay, during which the patient can be kept hghtly under the anaesthetic. OPBRATIOISrS.—After the true nature of the tumour has been determined, the question of the most suitable operation arises. The operations done for malignant disease may be divided into three large groups—namely : (i) Radical operations, performed with the view of ridding the patient of the disease altogether; (2) Partial operations, with the view of reUeving the patient of a source of local pain or distress ; and (3) PaUiative operations, in which the tumour itself is not interfered with, but some of the troubles to which it is giving rise are reheved. Radical Operations.—The essence of a radical operation is to remove along with the tumour a considerable area of the surrounding tissues, so as to take away as widely as possible the areas along which the disease naturally spreads.