TETANUS 201 in places soiled with the latter. The reason why it occurs especially after wounds in the extremities is that they are more likely to be soiled ; although tetanus most frequently occurs as a complication of lacerated wounds, it may follow a mere scratch. It is not the amount of laceration of a wound that is of consequence, but the soiling of it with earth. No doubt the soiling is more likely to be great when the wound is torn than when it is simply a clean incision. In infants infection may take place through the umbilical cord—' tetanus neonatorum.' TREATMENT.—Prophylactic.—As tetanus is unknown in aseptic wounds, it is clear that strict purilication of wounds likely to be infected with the tetanus bacillus must be of the first importance. Hence all wounds that are soiled with earth, or that have occurred from falls in stables, gardens, and so forth, must be thoroughly purified, a nail-brush being used to scrub away the earth, and the whole wound thoroughly sponged with undiluted carbolic acid. (For further details see p. 171.) Moreover, since the symptoms of tetanus are really those of the late stage of the disease, when severe injury has been inflicted by the toxins upon the nervous system, it is well to administer 10-20 c.c. of anti-tetanic serum in any case in which there is reason to suspect that the wound may be infected with the bacillus, without waiting for the typical symptoms to develop. This avoids the risk of the nervous phenomena persisting after the tetanus toxin has been satisfactorily neutralised by the anti-tetanic serum. Curative.—When the disease is established, anti-tetanic serum is undoubtedly effectual in a number of cases, and should be employed at once. It is the serum of horses, or other animals which have been rendered immune to tetanus, and is injected subcutaneously. It is well to begin with 20 c.c. of the serum prepared by the Lister Institute, and to repeat the dose in from twelve to twenty-four hours, according to its effect on the spasms. The administration should be repeated every twelve or twenty-four hours if necessary. The failure which has often followed subcutaneous injection of the serum when the disease is well developed has led to the practice of injecting it into the central nervous system itself. The serum may be injected into the subarachnoid space by means of lumbar puncture, but the most certain method is to inject it into the substance of the cerebral hemisphere itself. This method is not as dangerous as it would at first sight appear ; the cerebral tissue is comparatively loose, and in one case, which ended fatally, and in which 5 c.c. had been injected into the frontal lobe, no trace of the injection could be found post-mortem. It is well, however, to make the injection beneath a silent area of the cortex where destruction of a few fibres will lead to no symptoms. The adminis- tration of chloroform is no drawback, since it is often called for to allay the spasms. The head is shaved, and a curved incision is made through the