346 DEFORMITIES them into a new position, whilst the Hgaments are tight and thickened, and are not stretched so readily. The muscles are not contracted in the early stages, and there is usually little difficulty in reducing the deformity in an infant a few weeks old ; if, however, the deformity be allowed to continue, they become tight, and reposition of the foot cannot be carried out until after division of their tendons. The muscles chiefly affected are the tibialis anticus and posti- cus, the gastrocnemius, and in some cases the flexor longus digitorum. TREATMENT.—The surgeon has to take into consideration the alterations in the bones, ligaments and muscles ; the shortening of the plantar fascia ; and finally, the tightness of the skin upon the inner border of the foot. The contraction of the plantar fascia and the tight- ness of the skin are points of special importance, for the shortening of the inner border of the foot and the increase of the plantar arch will not be remedied unless means be taken to rectify these. In advanced cases also, changes occur from pressure upon parts that are not intended to bear pressure. Thus, callosities develop on the outer border of the foot, and, in severe cases, on the outer side of the dorsum. Beneath the callosities are bursas, which are liable to attacks of inflammation and suppuration and may cause considerable pain and give rise to further thickening and matting together of the soft parts in their neighbourhood. From the point of view of treatment, the cases of equino-varus coming under the notice of the surgeon may be divided into two main groups : those in which the deformity can be reduced readily by manipulation, viz., those in which there are no resisting structures requiring division ; and those in which there are one or more resisting structures, and in which, therefore, some form of operative procedure is required to restore the foot to position. This second group may be further sub-divided into two classes, namely those in which the obstacle to reduction is formed by shortened muscles, fasciae, or hgaments, and those in which the obstacle is due essentially to some permanent alteration in the shape of the bones. Treatment of Cases in which the Deformity can be reduced by Manipulation alone.—It is mainly the congenital cases seen within the first few weeks after birth which come under this heading ; in them the deformity may be cured without the necessity for any operative procedure if careful treatment be begun at once and carried out per- severingly. In this early stage the deformity is due to weakness of the muscles and to alterations in the shape of the bones. The treatment, therefore, should consist of manipulations designed to prevent shortening of the muscles, and to stretch any structures that are unduly tight ; besides this, some form of retentive apparatus will be required to keep the foot in position in the intervals between the manipulations. Both these measures tend to restore the bones gradually to their proper shape. Massage, and, in some cases, electricity should also be employed to