i8 INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS be ascertained by staining by Pappenheim's i or some allied method. None the less, the microscopical diagnosis between an inflammatory swelUng and a new growth is often extremely difficult to make. TREATMENT.—The first point in the treatment of chronic inflammation is to ascertain whether or not we can remove the cause, for if this be done effectually, the inflammation will subside at once. Thus, when a foreign body, such as a bullet, is embedded in the tissues, the indication is to cut down and remove it. Similarly, when the chronic inflammation is caused by obstruction of a duct, this must be remedied; when it is due to a deposit from the blood, as in gout, or to some state of the blood, as in rheumatism, appropriate medicinal treatment must be adopted for the ehmination of the noxious material from the circulation. Most commonly, however, the cause of the inflammation is the presence of some chronic infective disease, and it is not always easy to get rid of this completely, especially when it is of a tuberculous nature. When it is not possible or advisable to remove the cause, various measures must be adopted which are calculated to diminish the inflammation; these measures are essentially local. Local Treatment.—Rest.—The first essential point in the local treatment, after the question of removal of the primary cause, is to secure complete physiological rest of the part, and this is absolutely necessary for the subsidence of the inflammation. If the seat of the inflammation be a joint, this should be fixed ; if it be a part affected by muscular movements, rest must also be obtained, the patient, if possible, being in bed with the part elevated. It has already been pointed out that the position of the part affects the congestion, and in chronic as in acute inflammation, relief of the congestion by means of the elevated position is an essential element in treatment. Even when it is im- possible to remove the exciting cause {e.g. tubercle), much good may be done by methods calculated to diminish the inflammation itself, because inflamed tissues are more easily invaded by the morbid process than healthy ones ; if the chronic inflammation can be diminished, extension of the primary disease may thereby be checked. Counter-irritation,—By counter-irritation is meant the application ' The stain should be prepared fresh : a convenient method is the following. The dry stain is picked up on the point of an ordinary small blade of a pen-knife so as to cover about a quarter of an inch of the blade. Four times this quantity of pyronin and twice the quantity of methyl-green are dissolved in half a test-tube of distnied water, boiled and filtered hot on to the section. The stain is allowed to act for five minutes. A ten-per-cent. alcoholic solution of resorcin is then poured on to act as a mordant, the excess stain is removed from the section by absolute alcohol and the specimen is cleared in xylol and mounted in Canada balsam. The degree of differentiation can be watched conveniently while the specimen is in xylol, and if it is incomplete more alcohol can be used. The purple nuclei of the plasma-cells and their brilliant red cytoplasm distinguish them sharply from other cells.