445 PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS for atropine (ytjo grain with or without morphine) that it prevents cardiac inhibition, and, by checking the flow of saliva and mucus, averts after-sickness. Scopolamine (y-J^j grain) is used, alone or with morphine (,'; grain), to produce a state of stupor or semi-narcosis which, it is said, renders the use of an anaesthetic vapour nearly superfluous; a dose of the combined drugs is given on the previous evening, and this is re- peated on the morning of the operation. Digitaline may be given as a cardiac tonic when required (y^-y grain). In my experience the advantages of these drugs is rather more theoretical than practical, and the use of them as a matter of routine is open to the objection that they tend to mask the ordinary sj'mptoms of over-narcosis. There seems to be some reason for believing that strychnine is of considerable value in obviating or diminishing what may be termed ' operation shock,'i and it is also claimed by some that the tendency to sickness is lessened by its use. In the feeble, therefore, and in severe operations, t^j^ grain may be in- jected, either immediately before or immediately after anaesthesia is induced, and the dose may be repeated once or twice during the course of the operation ; this does no harm, and may do a great deal of good. Before the inhalation is commenced, every care must be taken to remove anything that may interfere in the slightest degree with the most absolute respiratory freedom; even in normal sleep the least pressure on fhe chest may cause an immense amount of discomfort. Plugs of tobacco, artificial teeth, obturators, etc., should be removed, lest they fall or get pushed into the larynx or pharynx ; collars, stays, belts, waistbands, braces, or bandages, must be completely relaxed. In some instances, auscultation of the chest and heart increases the trepidation of the patient, and, in by far the majority of cases, the infor- mation obtained is valueless or misleading. On account of nervousness the rate and rhythm of both cardiac and breath sounds are much inter- fered with, and the accurate detection of slight lesions becomes almost impossible. Although auscultation is not to be recommended as a routine practice, the anaesthetist is bound, nevertheless, to acquaint himself, through the medical attendant, or through the patient and his friends, with all points in the medical history of the case which may have any bearing upon the question of the anaesthetic, especially in connection with the respiratory and circulatory systems ; in cases of doubt, or if the slightest desire for it be manifested by the patient or his friends, a careful examination should, of course, be undertaken. It will probably help to calm the patient if the pulse be felt, although, for the reasons indicated above, but little real information is gained, beyond detecting anj- marked thickening or atheroma of the arterial walls. ' Prot. Wood of Philadelphia, Transactions of the International Medical Congress, Berlin, 1890, vol. i. p. 133.