WOUNDS 122 These methods are the most suitable ones to employ when the shock has not yet become profound, and, when shock is apprehended, careful watch should always be kept for the early symptoms, so that one of these remedies may be employed in time. When a nutrient enema has been administered, half an hour or an hour must, however, be allowed to elapse before the saline solution is injected. In pure shock stimulants are of much importance, but when there is much haemorrhage the saline solution is of more immediate value. InflMcnce of Pain on Shock.—A difficult, but at the same time an important, question is how far severe pain keeps up the shock, and to what extent anodynes may be administered with the view of relieving it. There can be hardly any doubt that prolonged pain wiU cause exhaustion of the nervous system, and thus prolong or even set up shock, and it is therefore of importance to diminish it if possible. An injection of morphine before the patient comes round from the anaesthetic may diminish shock to some extent, but when once shock is established morphine alone is apt to cause a great deal of depression. The addition of atropine to some extent removes this objection, and therefore a sub- cutaneous injection of an eighth to a quarter of a grain of morphine with y|-oth of a grain of atropine is advisable when there is much pain. It is better to give a small dose and repeat it than to give one large dose. ENTRY OF AIR INTO VEINS. This accident is especially apt to happen in operations about the root of the neck on account of the proximity of the heart, and the fact that the veins pass through rigid openings in the deep fascia of the neck. If a vein be opened in these operations and not immediately occluded, air is apt to be sucked in through the proximal end of the vessel during inspiration, and this will give rise to very serious embarrassment of the pulmonary circulation. The right side of the heart becomes full of blood, which is frothy from admixture with air and not readily driven on into the pulmonary artery, and immediate death may be the result. When only a small quantity of air enters, death does not occur so suddenly. The patient then becomes rapidly cyanosed, with quick, deep, almost convulsive respiratory movements as if there were laryngeal obstruction ; there is, however, no stridor and the air enters and leaves the lungs freely without relieving the dyspnoea or the cyanosis. This condition usually terminates fatally, but when the amount of air sucked in is very small, the obstruction may be overcome and the circulation re-established. In these cases, it is not uncommon for a small patch of pneumonia to form where the bubbles of air and blood have collected. The accident is so sudden and dangerous, that the possibility of its occurrence should always be borne in mind by surgeons, especially when operating about the neck, and if veins must be divided, they should be