DEFORMITIES 324 by cutting from the skin surface downwards as it is a method by which one can be certain of not leaving any fibres undivided, whilst accidental enlargement of the skin opening is certainly avoided. It must be con- fessed, however, that enlargement of the skin wound is nowadays of little consequence ; at the same time it is best avoided, because the scar in the skin may become adherent to the cicatricial tissue between Fig. 102.—The Methods of dividing the Tendo Achillis Subcutaneously. A. Division of the tendon from its deep surface towards the skin. The tenotomy knife is here introduced on the outer side at right angles to the skin, and is thrust across in front of the anterior surface of the tendon until its point is just beneath the skin on the inner side, where the surgeon notes its position with the left forefinger. In the drawing the assistant is in the act of making the tendon tense for the surgeon to divide it. It is more usual to introduce the knife from the inner side. B. Division of the tendon from its superficial surface towards the bone. This is the method we prefer and have described in the text. In the drawing the point of the tenotome is shown as it is being insinuated between the skin and the tendon ; the surgeon notes its progress beneath the skin by means of the left thumb or forefinger. The parts are represented as being fully relaxed by the assistant in order to facilitate the passage of the tenotome across the back of the tendon. In both drawings the surgeon's hands are denoted by the letters o, o, while those of the assistant are marked a, a. (After Hoffa.) the divided ends of the tendon, and thus hamper the movements of the latter. In division of the tendo Achillis, the knife should be introduced on the inner side of the tendon, about half an inch beyond its margin and about an inch above its insertion into the os calcis ; the blade should he flatwise on the tendon. In fat children it is not always easy to define the edge of the tendon, and in them it is best to make the puncture about midway between the inner border of the tibia, which can always be felt, and the back of the leg. The foot is given in charge of an assistant who