503 THE OPSONIC INDEX before the puncture is made. Place a narrow ligature round the upper arm and tie it fairly tightly, so as to obstruct the veins. Select a large and prominent vein, and (having fitted the syringe together) puncture it by passing the hypodermic needle obliquely through a fair thickness of skin ; by doing so you will lessen the chance of skin contamination and of leakage of blood after the operation. Direct the point of the needle aie.'ay from the body, so as to face the current of blood, and as soon as the vein is entered the blood will commence to rise in the syringe, pushing the piston before it ; it is unnecessary, and indeed useless, to apply suction. When the requisite amount has been taken, withdraw the needle and get an assistant to remove the ligature ; if this is not done there may be leakage into the tissues. A pad of cotton-wool applied with collodion will usually be sufficient dressing for the puncture. The cultures must be made at once, or the blood will coagulate. In most cases the best way to proceed is to squirt a few drops on to the sur- face of an agar tube, to put about i c.c into an ordinary broth tube, and the rest into a small flask holding some 100 c.c. of broth. These are to be incubated at the body temperature, and will (in positive cases) usually show signs of growth in 24-36 hours, though sometimes there may be no appearance of bacteria before the end of the third day. For the methods of examining these cultures and the identification of the various organisms which may be present a work on bacterioloL;y must be consulted. THE OPSONIC INDEX. The method by which the opsonic index is estimated is fully described by Dr. Whitfield (see Vol. II.), and its apphcation to diagnosis is all that need be discussed here. It is rarely required except in the diagnosis of tuberculous infections, and it is in these that it has been most carefully studied. Unfortunately it is only in a comparatively small minority of cases that it is of value, since it is found that a patient suffering from tuberculosis may have a perfectly normal index as compared with a healthy person. This, however, is not always the case, and it is common to find tuberculous patients having indices decidedly higher or lower than any met with in healthy persons ; thus it may fall to 0'3 or rise as high as 2. In health the extreme Hmits may be regarded as 0'8 and i'2, and ,the figures below or above these may be looked upon with suspicion proportional to their remoteness from these limits ; thus, 0'5 or i'5 almost certainly indicate tuberculosis. Another method which may be of value, where the simple determin- ation of the opsonic index jdelds inconclusive results, is to follow it by an injection of tuberculin such as is now used therapeutically—say -^jjjj of a milligram of new tuberculin. This is apparently quite harmless in all cases, and is usually not followed by any febrile reaction. In health it does not usually cause any fall of the opsonic index, whereas when there