OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT 99 wrung out immediately before applying the dressing. We may here insist again that this method is in no way inferior to the more elaborate dry sterilisation except from the point of view of the patient's comfort, and is immeasural:)ly superior to sterilisation conducted in inefficient apparatus. THE DANGERS OF OPERATIONS AND THEIR PREVENTION. The chief immediate risks of an operation are the dangers of the anae- sthetic, the introduction of sepsis, loss of blood and shock ; of somewhat less importance is the occurrence of syncope. Tiie danger of ana;sthetics is dealt with separately by Dr. Silk (see pp. 471 ct scq.). EXCLUSION OF MICRO-ORG.\NISMS. Exclusion of micro-organisms is the really essential point in the treat- ment of wounds. Even if the steps necessary lor the attainment of this object were to interfere healing by lirst intention, it would still be incumbent on the surgeon to see that they were carried out, on account of the disastrous results that follow the entrance of micro-organisms into a wound. As a matter of fact, however, bacteria can be excluded without interfering with healing by first intention in any way. The exclusion of organisms during and after the performance of an operation is the essential Listerian principle, and this may be carried out in two ways. The one originally introduced by Lister, which has since undergone many modifi- cations in details, consists in the preliminary disinfection of skin, hands, instruments, etc., in the use of antiseptic substances during tlie coiu'se of the operation, and in tlie subseciuent application to the wound of dressings containing antiseptics. In the other method (sometimes termed the ' aseptic ' method), the procediu'es are essentially tlie same in the preliminary stages, but the use of antiseptic substances during the course of the operation and afterwards in the dressings is avoided (see p. 153). There is no real antagonism between the two plans ; it is merely a difference in the mode by which the same end is attained. In our opinion, the exclusion of micro-organisms is attained in practice much more certainly by the intelligent use of antiseptics than by the other plan. Sources of Infection by Micro-Organisms.—Micro-organisms may enter a wound during an operation firstly from the skin in the neighbour- hood of the wound itself; secondly, from the hands of the operator or his assistants; thirdly, from the instruments, ligatures, etc., that are used during the course of the operation; and fourthly, from the air. If the first three of these sources be properly guarded against, it will practically always be possible to obtain an aseptic woimd. The organisms which fall in from the air are usually non-pathogenic, and will not grow in a wound the walls of which are brought properly into contact. Disinfection of the Skin.—Micro-organisms ai e always present on H 2