412 DEFORMITIES opposite is the case when the curvature is the sequela of some chest disease, such as empyema. Perhaps, however, the most important feature in the prognosis is the condition of the patient's health. Scoliosis associated with profound anaemia is most difficult to treat, and little beneficial effect upon the curvature is to be looked for unless the anaemia can be treated with success. The most difficult cases of all are in anaemic girls about the age of puberty who also suffer from dysmenorrhoea ; when these con- ditions are combined with a neurotic taint, the case may prove intractable. The age of the patient at the onset of the curvature is of great im- portance. In a very young child the vertebrae are soft and easily moulded, and there is a long period during which the spine may undergo serious structural alterations unless it be maintained in proper position. When the disease begins only a short time before ossification is complete, however, there is little time for great changes to take place in the vertebrae. The curvature will therefore develop much more slowly— an important point with regard to treatment. TREATMENT.—The question of prophylaxis must always be borne in mind by those who have charge of patients who are likely to become the subjects of this affection. Prophylaxis.—When there is obliquity of the pelvis.—Any patient with inequality in the length of the lower extremities should receive treatment directed to remedying the resulting obliquity of the pelvis. When a patient has been the subject of hip disease and is left with de- formity and shortening of the limb, the deformity must be remedied as far as possible, and a high boot must be worn on the affected limb so as to make the two limbs the same length. Congenital dislocation of the hip should receive appropriate treatment (see p. 394). Apparatus will be required for cases of arrest of development following infantile paralysis, whilst genu valgum and flat foot should be treated upon the lines laid down in Chapters XVIII. and XV. When heavy weights are carried upon one side.—The obvious pro- phylactic remedy here is to see that any weight likely to produce curva- ture is carried alternately upon the two sides. Nursemaids should be told to carry children alternately upon either arm—an order that will benefit both child and nurse alike. When an arm has been lost, the patient should be forbidden to carry heavy weights ; if enough of the limb remains to allow an artificial limb to be fitted, the weight should be carried alternately by the natural and the artificial limb. When there is weakness of the spinal muscles.—The ordinary rules for personal hygiene must be insisted upon, but there are certain special points to which attention should be paid. Weakly children or those suffering from rickets should be carried in the horizontal position in the nurse's arms ; they should never be carried upright even when they have become strong and healthy unless they can be carried alternately