343 TALIPES VALGUS In the intervals between the massage and passive movements, the foot should be kept in the corrected position by means of a suitable apparalus. In the early stage, before the patient learns to walk, the metal splint already mentioned (see p. 310) is the most satisfactory, but when the patient can walk he should wear an apparatus designed to prevent eversion of the foot. This consists of lateral leg irons, the outside one being particularly strong, jointed at the ankle, and hinged to the heel of the boot, which should be of thick leather, and should have the inner side of the sole and heel slightly thicker than the outer (see Fig. 114). The heel should also extend further forwards than usual; in fact, the boot should be made much on the lines recommended for flat foot (see p. 306), for in these cases of talipes valgus a certain amount of flat foot is generally present, and must be corrected. In many cases it is well also to employ Whitman's springs (see p. 303). The boot should only be worn while walking, and should be re- moved as soon as the patient complains of being tired, or of the apparatus causing pain ; the limb should then be massaged and douched, and the light metal splint put on. When the tibialis posticus is completely paralysed, its tendon may be joined either to that of the peroneus longus or to a slip divided from the tendo Achillis (see p. 341), and thus the support to the inner border and arch of the foot may be strengthened. In advanced cases in which there is marked shortening of the peronei tendons, it may be necessary to divide them and sometimes also to divide the external lateral ligament of the ankle joint. Division of the peronei tendons is done about an inch and a half above the tip of the external malleolus. The tenotomy knife is inserted between the tendons and the fibula ; the edge of the peroneus longus can be made out easily, and the peroneus brevis comes into relief as soon as this is divided, and can also be cut. The short saphena vein may be wounded in this operation but this is not a matter of consequence. In paralytic cases, instead of merely dividing the peronei it is well to join the divided peroneus longus to the tibialis posticus [vide supra). After the tendons have been cut, the foot should be put up in a position of slight adduction. In hospital patients it is best to put up the foot in plaster of Paris. Any co-existing flat foot must also be corrected and the arch of the instep well raised. Fig. 114. — Boot for use in Talipes Valgus. These are similar to those for use in flat foot, with the addition of lateral leg-irons, the outer one being especially stout. The drawing is a view of the boot from the inner side, and shows the obliquity of the heel and the filling up of the arch of the instep. Compare Fig. 95.