ACUTE INFLAMMATION 5 the arm with his left hand, and steadies the median basilic vein by placing the left thumb upon it immediately below the intended seat of puncture ; then, with a sharp double-edged lancet, he makes an oblique incision through the skin and the anterior wall of the vein at one cut. The incision should cross the long axis of the vein a little obliquely ; the posterior wall of the vein should not be divided. The blood flows in a steady stream from the vein, and is received into a graduated porringer. It is generally the custom to slip the left thumb over the incision in the vein as soon as it is made, so as to prevent bleeding until tlie porringer is in position. The amount of blood usually withdrawn from an adult varies from ten to fifteen ounces, in the case of children from one to three. In former days the patient was bled until he felt faint or actually fainted, but bleeding to this extent is practically never employed at the present time. After a sufficient quantity of blood has been withdrawn, the bandage around the arm is removed and a small pad of gauze is placed over the incision, and kept in position by a few turns of a figure-of-eight bandage. This suffices to arrest the bleeding, and in a few days the wound will be healed and the circulation re-established. The patient should keep the arm in a sling for four or five days. Modifications in the operative technique may be necessary when the operation is per- formed in cases of pneumonia, heart disease, apoplexy or similar condi- tions ; here the position of the patient and possibly other details must be arranged to meet the requirements of the individual case. The operation is easy, but care must be taken not to allow the point of the lancet to penetrate too deeply, for the brachial artery has been punctured and an aneurismal varix has resulted. A vein which used to be frequently opened is the external jugular vein as it crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, but here there is considerable risk of air entering the vein and causing serious danger to life. Moreover, the operation in this situation possesses no countervaihng advantages in cases of inflammation, and therefore we shall not describe it. The method most in vogue at the present day, however, is local blood-letting-, which may be eft'ected by the application of leeches, the use of cupping, or the employment of incisions or scarifications. Several points require to be mentioned with regard to the application of leeches. The part to which the leeches are to be applied must be carefully cleansed, as otherwise they will not bite readily ; the applica- tion of a httle cream or milk to the skin may prove effectual in making them do so. When the leeches are put on the skin they should be con- fined until they have taken hold, and this may be conveniently done by inverting over them a pill-box or wineglass of suitable size ; when they have fixed themselves this can be taken away. Special leech-glasses are employed for this purpose, and answer admirably ; in using them it is necessary to see that the leech is put into the glass tail first (the thick