CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP 401 An attempt is next made to get the head of the bone into position by suitable manipulations ; these will be generally similar to those practised in the non-operative method. The surgeon has the advantage in the open method, however, that he is able to see when the head of the bone goes into place, which it usually does with a definite snap, just as it does in trau- matic dislocations that are reduced. When the head has been got into place, the position of maximum stability is found, and the limb is kept in that position until the wound has been closed and a plaster of Paris spica has been applied. This position is generally similar to that in the non- operative method, viz., full abduction, slight extension, and inward rotation, but it varies very much in individual cases and depends to a large extent upon the deflection forwards of the neck that has taken place. There is never any doubt as to the right position, however, as it is the only one in which the head remains in the acetabulum. Before closing the wound an attempt should be made to narrow the dilated front part of the capsule of the hip-joint sufficiently to allow it to exert some influence in preventing recurrence of the dislocation. We usually excise a large ellip- tical piece from it and bring the edges together with stout cat- gut. The deeper structures are then brought together with catgut, and the wound is closed without drainage. The limb is put up in a plaster of Paris spica in the position mentioned above, and it should be kept in this for about ten days, at the end of which time the stitches are taken out, and a second plaster casing is applied. If a Gigli's wire saw be used, there is no difficulty in removing the plaster casing without risk of disturbing the position of the joint surfaces. The case is now treated on lines exactly similar to those for the bloodless method (see p. 398)- Results.—The results of this operation are often very satisfactory, and we have had a number of cases in which the head of the bone has appar- ently remained in the acetabulum, which has developed normally. In others the head has slipped out of place within a few days or weeks of the operation subsequently, and in some of these we have successfully re-opened the wound and replaced the head. Sometimes, however, failure results either from inability to get the head of the bone in place at the operation owing to long-standing and general shortening of the tissues or from inability to keep the head in place afterwards. In these cases the head lodges beneath the anterior superior iliac spine, and a good firm new joint may result. I. D D Fig. 140.—Incision for the Operative Treatment OF Congenital Dislocation of the Hip. The line ab runs iu the interval between the sartorius and the tensor vaginas femoris muscles, from which there is easy access to the hip-joint. The dotted line cd shows the second incision, if more room be required.