EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD 522 to go at once to ji^j or jl^-j c.c, and to regard anything as negative in which there is no reaction after this amount. Most recent writers give somewhat less than this : Bandelier and Ropke recommend a series of st/oU' WotT' Too ^^'^ fTTo ^■^■> ^^'^ ^^is may be taken as erring, if at all, on the side of caution. The reaction consists of two parts, the general, and the focal: there may be a third, the needle-track reaction. The general reaction consists in a rise of temperature, usually coming on between four and thirty hours after the injection. The height of the temperature varies, but nothing under i° F. over the previous maximum can be regarded as significant, and it may be very much higher than this. The usual symptoms of fever are also present. The focal' reaction is most important in that it serves to indicate the region affected v/ith tubercle. It consists of an inflammatory swelling of the lesion, which may be observed directly (in the case of lupus, etc.) or indirectly, by its pressure effects on surrounding structures. The needle-track reaction is not always seen. It consists of an in- flammatory reaction at the area of injection, commencing in the sub- cutaneous tissue and often spreading to the skin, forming a red spot with sharply outlined edges. It is less important than the general and focal reactions. TUBERCULIN IN TREATMENT. The curative value of tuberculin is undoubted. There are, however, numerous limitations to its action as at present understood, and a careful selection of cases is necessary if good results are to be obtained. Its use is not indicated if the diseases is directly amenable to surgical measures, e.g. excision. Thus a small area of lupus occurring on a part of the body hidden by clothing should be excised. Again, it is difficult to cure lesions in which there is a large mass of caseous material or much fibrosis : good results are occasionally obtained with tuberculous glands, but this is the exception, and as a rule it is better to remove them. But in cases in which operation is not practicable or advisable, or has to be deferred from any cause, tuberculin should certainly have a trial. The method in which it acts is not precisely known. According to Sir Almroth Wright a main factor in its action is the increase in the amount of opsonin in the serum (already alluded to), which is supposed to increase phagocytosis and thus facilitate cure. There are theoretical objections to this explanation, and it is found as a matter of fact that persons with a low opsonic index not uncommonly do extremely well. A more important factor is probably to be found in the focal reactions which occur after each injection. These flood the tissues with blood and may also cause a profound alteration in the metabohsm of the cells. If too severe, these focal reactions may go on to necrosis : this occurred