CHRONIC SEPTICEMIA OR HECTIC FEVER 191 From this point of view, the cases may be divided into two large groups : those in which the focus of the disease can be removed entirely, and those in which this is impossible. When the Focus of Disease can be removed entirely.—These cases may be subdivided further into those in wliich some local operation is sufhcient to get rid of the primary disease, and those in which amputation is necessary. Local operations, such as the removal of a sequestrum or clearing out of a joint, are called for when the extent of the primary disease and the anatomical conditions of the part are such as to offer a good chance of removing the cause of the mischief com.pletely and ensuring thorougli disinfection of the tissues. In such cases the whole extent of the wound should be opened up, and left open, after either excising the focus of the disease completely, or scraping it out and sponging it with undiluted carbolic acid ; all the recesses of the wound should then be packed with cyanide gauze sprinkled with iodoform. The outside dressing should consist of cyanide gauze and salicylic wool, and both it and the packing should be renewed daily. AmpiUatioii is called for : (a) when the primary focus can only be removed by amputating the limb, and when amputation is the only safe method of attaining that end. Perhaps the most familiar cases in which amputation is obviously the only means of eradicating the primary trouble are those of extensive disease—generally tuberculous—of the knee, ankle, elbow, or wrist joints, accompanied by widespread suppuration and septic sinuses ; any partial operation is powerless to arrest it, and nothing but an amputa- tion performed through healthy parts will avail. Sometimes amputation is the only safe method ol treatment even when the local disease is small in extent. Should the changes consequent upon the occurrence of hectic fever be so far advanced that the patient is completely worn out, little good will be gained by any partial operation. Quite apart from the question of the deleterious effects of the shock and loss of blood, which are often considerable in an attempt to remove the diseased parts by dissection, the patient's con- dition is such that he cannot bear the strain of a prolonged period of healing, and amputation therefore offers the only chance. Although the presence of waxy degeneration of the kidneys was supposed formerly to be a bar to amputation, we find now that this is not so in an ampu- tation performed antiseptically; not only does the hectic fever subside after amputation, but the waxy condition of the organs tends to improve, the liver diminishes in size, the albumin becomes less, and may ultimately disappear. Therefore amputation is clearly indicated, both with the view of saving the patient's life and of arresting the progress of the disease. When the Local Disease cannot be removed entirely.—The greatest difficult}^ occurs when the source of infection is on the trunk—as, for