SYPHILIS 210 induration arises at any time from ten days to eight weeks after infection ; it most commonly occurs about tlie fourth week. It is followed by enlargement, first, of the nearest lymphatic glands, and subsequently of those in other parts of the body. The induration at the seat of inoculation and the enlargement of the nearest lymphatic glands are the phenomena usually included under the term ' Primary Syphilis.' In the male the chancre is usually situated in the fold between the prepuce and the glans, but may occur on either of these structures, on the frenum or even in the meatus. In the female it is most commonly inside the labia, and when small, the patient may be unaware of its existence. Extra-genital chancres are by no means uncommon. They occur on the lip, eyelid, tongue, tonsil, rectum, and cervix uteri; surgeons and obstetricians are liable to contract the disease when examining infected patients, and in them the sore is usually situated at the side of the finger-nail. Syphilitic infection frequently co-exists with that of gonorrhoea, chancroid, or both. The presence of a soft sore often obscures the early diagnosis of syphilis, and these cases should always be kept under obser- vation until the absence of induration and of secondary symptoms nega- tives the diagnosis of syphilis. In these cases serum chagnosis by the Wassermann reaction (see Appendix) is specially valuable, and the presence or absence of spirochaet^ in the deeper parts of the chancre of course clinches the diagnosis. As regards the Wassermann reaction, it must be noted that it does not appear until some days, or even three or four weeks, have elapsed since the appearance of the sore. The primary chancre varies from a slight parchment-like induration, sometimes very difficult to recognise, to a deep sloughing ulceration or phagedenic chancre causing extensive loss of tissue. The severity of the disease corresponds to a certain extent to the severity of the primary sore. Secondary Stage.—Following the primary condition, and usually commencing within three months after infection, a series of inflammatory phenomena occurs which affect the skin, mucous membranes, fibrous tissues, periosteum, etc., and these phenomena appear at intervals and are spread over a period of time, the length of which varies with the severity of the attack, but which lasts about two years on the average. The onset of the secondary stage is marked by the appearance of general glandular enlargement. The glands are hard, rounded, and discrete ; there is probably no specific liability of one set of glands to enlargement more than another, but the presence of enlarged supra- trochlear or sub-occipital glands without any obvious cause is always sug- gestive of syphilis. The early phenomena are usually the mildest and the most superficial, but the lesions become of a severer type and are more deeply seated as time goes on. During this period, which is spoken of as that of' Secondary Syphilis,' are seen such affections as erythematous, papular, squamous, pustular, and nodular syphilides on the skin, and mucous patches or condylomata on the skin or mucous membranes. There