471 DIFFICULTIES AND DANGERS In this connection reference must be made to the condition known as the status lymphaticus. By this is meant an enlargement of the thymus gland and a general hypertrophy of the lymphatic tissues throughout the body. The condition is an undoubted pathological fact, and as such has been held to be sufficient to account for otherwise inexplicable cases of sudden death, whether occurring on tlie operating table or in the street. Persons suffering from it (mostly children) are said to be particularly susceptible to chloroform. It unfortunately happens, however, that the clinical signs and symptoms of the disease are so very indefinite, that it is rarely recognised during life, and it is more than probable that a large number of children, afflicted in this way, pass through the ordeal of an operation without causing the slightest anxiety to the anaesthetist. The possibiUty of the existence of the condition, however, is another argument in favour of the view that children are, if anything, more, rather than less, susceptible to chloroform than adults, and that corre- spondingly greater care should be taken with them. DIFFICULTIES AND DANGERS. Difficulties and dangers directly connected with the anaesthetic are due to the effects of the various drugs upon either the respiratory or the circulatory systems. Many and bitter are the controversies which have arisen as to which system is primarily affected, but much of this discussion has been of an academic rather than of a practical character ; at present, the balance of opinion appears to be in favour of ascribing to both functions some share in the production of fatal results. At any rate, it is admitted, on all hands, that the depression in the respiration, even if it is not absolutely coincident with the circulatory failure, precedes or follows it so closely that, clinically, it is almost impossible to distinguish between the two effects, and, therefore, the line of treatment must be such as will give relief in both directions. Simple syncope appears to be an accident to which patients are occa- sionally liable in the very earliest stages of the inhalation. Some such cases are undoubtedly due to mere fright, and can hardly be ascribed to the toxic effects of the an;iesthetic ; but, on the other hand, many cases are on record in which no such dread of the operation existed, but where, nevertheless, the patient, often a strong healthy adult, has suddenly succumbed after inhaling the anaesthetic for a few minutes, when appa- rently unconscious, and passing into the third stage (see p. 454). The existence of a condition of status lymi)haticus has been put forward in explanation of some of these cases. In origin, respiratory troubles may be spasmodic, asphyxial, or due to the toxic effects of tlie drug upon the central nervous system. Spasm of the glottis may occur with any anjesthetic, but especially with