19 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION of an irritant to some superficial part of the body, usually the skin, either over the seat of the inflammation or at a little distance from it ; the application should be made to a part which is in intimate nervous connection with the inflamed area. It is not clear how benefit results from irritation of the skin ; probably the irritant acts through the nervous system. Poultices and fomentations, which are of such value in acute inflammation, probable owe their virtue partly to the principle of counter-irritation, and they may be classed as the mildest counter- irritants with which we are acquainted. In chronic inflammation, however, some more active agent is usually necessary. Mustard is one of the mildest counter-irritants in common use, and is employed either in the form of mustard-leaves or as a plaster. The mustard-leaves, which only require damping before being apphed, are very handy and cleanly, and are generally used when counter-irritation alone is required. As a substitute for them, the ordinary mustard-plaster, made by mixing mustard into a thick paste with tepid water and spreading it on a piece of linen or brown paper, may be employed. The length of time that either of these preparations should be left on is determined by the patient's sensations. Ten to twenty minutes is generally sufficient; if left on longer they are apt to blister. Special care should be taken not to leave them too long on young children, in whom the}' may produce actual sloughing. If the warm poultice action be required in addition to the counter- irritation, a mustard-and-linseed poultice may be employed. The poultice is made with boihng water in the ordinary way (see p. 11), one part of mustard being added to four parts of linseed meal. If a more energetic action be required, an ordinary linseed poultice is made, and mustard is dusted thickly over its surface. The most popular method of producing counter-irritation is by the use of tincture of iodine or of linimentum iodi, the part being painted with the iodine every day until the skin becomes so sore that the patient cannot go on with it. As a rule, however, the effects of iodine are not satisfactory, and in many cases of tuberculous glands, in which it is so commonly used, it is positively harmful, as it tends to bring about suppuration. The two most potent agents in producing smart counter-irritation are blisters and the actual cautery. Blisters may be produced either by the emplastrum cantharidis (B.P.) or by the Hquor epispasticus. The part to which a bhster is to be applied should be thoroughly cleansed, and if necessary, shaved. In an adult the plaster should be left on for about ten hours; the length of time required for the production of a satisfactory effect varies, however, with the thickness of the skin. In children, and in parts where the skin is thin, about five or six hours will generally be sufficient; on the other hand, where the skin is thick, as on the palm or the sole, it may even require twenty-four hours. When the plaster is removed, a good-sized blister