DEFORMITIES 338 brought into position and the cut surfaces of the tendon are united by a continuous suture. Hasm jrrliage is arrested, and the wound is sewn up without a drainage tube. A broad surface for union is thus obtained, and the result is usually fairly satisfactory if care be taken not to put any tension upon the tendon for some weeks afterwards. l-shaped Section of ihe Tendo A chillis.-—After turning up a flap as before, an incision is made in the tendon, commencing on one side, and running transversely across it as far as its centre. The knife is then turned downwards at a right angle to this incision, and the tendon is split vertically along the middle line for about a couple of inches. At the lower end of this incision the knife is turned transversely across the Fig. 112.—T.-SHAPED Section for Shortening Tendons. In A the tendon is seen exposed by raising a flap ; the dark line shows the incision in the tendon, the dotted ones indicating the amount of tendon removed after the latter has been thus divided. In B the tendon has been shortened and sewn together ; the toes are a little depressed as in the preceding figure. C shows diagrammatically the steps of the division of the tendon and the methods of suture. In (i) the line of incision in the tendon is c, a, b, d; when the two ends are separated, incisions along the dotted lines a'd' and b'c' are made to cut off the portions acc'b' and d'a'bd (shaded in the diagram.) This gives the tendon the shape and length represented in (2). The divided ends are then brought together and sutured as in (3). It is important to remember in cutting off the portions of tendon that dd' must be equal in length to cc'. tendon, and directed towards the opposite side to that originally divided, and is made to divide the remaining half of the tendon (see Fig. 112). In this way, two flaps of tendon are made, and enough is cut from each flap to obtain the necessary shortening when the divided surfaces are brought into contact. A good practical rule is to make the vertical part of the incision in the tendon double the length of the portion that must be removed in order to bring the foot into position. The ends are stitched in accurate apposition with silk ; details of the method of suture are given in connection with the affections of tendons. In some ways, this method is more satisfactory than the preceding one, as the union is a combination of a transverse with a vertical one, which is very strong, whereas in the other the union is oblique and may yield. Moreover, the "L-shaped division can be practised lower down, and need not involve the muscular fibres. After-treatment.—Whichever be the method adopted, the foot must be