DEFORMITIES 372 adult, and that there is no increased length in the internal condyle, and no diminution in the external; the whole change apparently occurs in the diaphysis in the immediate neighbourhood of the epiphyseal line. It has also been shown that these changes are not limited to the femur, but affect the tibia to a corresponding degree, so that in all cases of marked genu valgum the bones of the leg show a curvature as well as the femur. This is a point of great importance in treatment. The condition is essentially due to a softening of the bones in young children, as well as in adolescents ; in the former, the disease seems to be invariably of a rickety nature, whilst in young adults it is not improbable that this is also the case, although it is frequently impossible to find any rickety change, except the softening of the bone. Whether the disease in adolescence be due to rickets or not, the facts remain that, before it can occur, the bones must be soft enough to undergo bending, and, further, that the curvature occurs in the diaphysis immediately beyond the epiphyseal line. The changes in the femur consist of an outward bending at the lower end of the shaft, and an extension downwards of the diaphysis on the inner side, so that the epiphyseal line is altered in position and runs obliquely from without, downwards and inwards. In the tibia the change occurs in the diaphysis immediately below the epiphyseal line, and results in an outward curvature of the bone at that spot. In addition to the alterations in the immediate neighbourhood of the knee joint, certain other changes are also met with in this condition. In young children there is a tendency to hyper-extension of the joint, whilst the femur becomes rotated outwards, so that in walking the foot may be strongly everted. Flat foot is also a frequent accompaniment of the affection ; in some cases it may be the exciting cause of the deformity, the alteration in the foot throwing the line of transmission of the weight of the body somewhat outwards. This diminishes the pressure on the inner part of the lower end of the femur, increases it on the outer side, and thus pro- duces the curvature. The condition is generally bilateral, especially in young children, although it is generally worse in one leg than in the other. TREATMENT.—In all rickety deformities, there is a tendency to spontaneous cure during the period of growth. The number of cases seen in adults is much smaller than that of the incipient ones seen in child- hood ; and many cases of slight deformity seen in adult life have been severe in childhood, a partial cure having taken place spontaneously. This is seen especially in the antero-posterior curves of the lower end of the tibia. In the rickety cases the bones are soft and bend, and, when the pressure is taken off, the tendency is for them to return to their normal shape. The bending may be produced either by the weight of the body when the child is standing or by the pressure due to a faulty position in children who have never walked. The treatment therefore is partly general and partly local. The