TALIPES CALCANEUS 337 1)6 divided at all, but its point of insertion into the os calcis may be changed. Plastic Operations upon the Tendo Aehillis.—The tendo Achillis is exposed by turning up a flap, made by carrying an incision from a point about half an inch to one side of the tendon, and at a similar distance above the proposed point of division, downwards, to an inch below the proposed point of division, and then bringing it across the tendon, and up to a point on the opposite side of the tendon corresponding to its starting point (see Fig. no). The object of making a flap in order to expose the tendon is that the line of union of the flap shall not correspond anywhere to the line of division of the tendon, and therefore there will be Fig. iio.—Flap Method of Exposing the Tendo Achillis. The line of section for the plastic operation for shortening the ten- don is also shown, and it can be seen that there is no likelihood of the cicatrix in the skin becoming united to that in the tendon. Fig. III.—Oblique Section for Shortening Tendons. In A are shown the incisions, the upper one aa' com- mencing just below the muscular fibres; the portion aa'b'b between the two incisions is removed. In B this has been done, and the cut surfaces of the tendon have been sutured. Enough has been removed to raise the heel and point the toes somewhat. no risk of adhesion between the incision in the tendon and that in the skin. The method of shortening the tendon varies ; there are two principal plans: to divide the tendon obliquely, so as to have a very broad surface for union, and to divide it in a "L-shaped manner. Occasionally it may be necessary to divide the tendons on the front of the ankle as a preliminary measure if they offer any obstacle to re-position of the limb. Oblique Section of the Tendo Achillis.—The tendon is exposed in the manner just indicated, and then divided obliquely from above down- wards and forwards (see Fig. in). The incision through the tendon should be nearly two inches in length, and should commence close to, or even actually through, some of the muscular fibres. After the tendon has been divided, a sufficient portion of the lower part is removed by a second incision parallel to the first ; the amount removed should be such that, when the oblique surfaces are brought into apposition, the foot is either at or slightly beyond a right angle to the leg. The foot is I. z