DEFORMITIES 286 are extensive alterations in the head of tlie metatarsal bone such as Upping and outgrowths. When this procedure is carried out, some of the soft tissues should be interposed between the divided ends of the bones in order to prevent osseous ankylosis from taking place. The surgeon is sometimes called upon to treat a bunion in which suppuration has occurred. These cases should be treated first upon the general principles applying to suppurative bursitis (see Vol. II.). The cavity should be laid open freely and drained, and dressings suitable to the degree and character of the inflammation should be applied. It is out of the question to adopt the operative procedures just described for the radical cure of the bunion until the wound has been soundly healed for some weeks ; its cure should then be undertaken upon the lines already laid down. In some cases no true acute suppuration occurs, but a sinus forms, leading into the joint and discharging a serous or synovial fluid. In these cases there are usually extensive osteo-arthritic changes, and healing will not be obtained until the head of the metatarsal bone has been removed. HALLUX FLEXUS—HALLUX RIGIDUS. In hallux flexus the great toe is bent somewhat downwards towards the plantar surface; in hallux rigidus it is quite straight; in either case any attempt to extend it gives rise to considerable pain. The result is that the patient cannot walk with the foot in the normal position owing to the necessity of avoiding movement of the toe ; generally he walks upon the inner border of the foot, which is kept in the abducted position. The deformity is associated with fiat foot, and in many cases appears to be the direct result of it. Hallux rigidus is described as existing alone. Undoubtedly cases are met with in which the great toe is painful and stiff but not flexed ; flexion wiU invariably develop later, however, if the affection be left untreated. We shall therefore describe the treatment of the two affections together. TREATMENT-—In the early stages a Whitman's spring, combined with the exercises recommended for fiat foot (see p. 303), will often cause the patient to lose his pain rapidly; the stiffness of the joint then dis- appears, and locomotion is no longer painful. In the more severe cases, however, it may be necessary to combine division of the lateral ligaments of the joint, and possibly also of the plantar fascia, with the treatment of the flat foot. Marked alterations take place in the joint and the hgaments in the more severe cases, however, so that no real improvement is effected in the toe, although the flat foot may be remedied. These cases therefore call for some radical operation which may take the form of removal of the base of the first phalanx or the head of the metatarsal bone,