INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 6o We consider, however, that the method known as Unna's bandage is superior to Martin's and we advise its adoption in the first instance at any rate. This is a bandage stiffened with gelatine, and its ad- vantages are that the patient cannot meddle with the sore, and that it gives a uniform elastic support without unnecessary pressure. It can be applied in various ways, but the method we prefer is as foUows. In the first place, the sore and the skin around are thoroughly disin- fected, and a dressing of protective and boric lint is applied ; later on, half-strength boric, or eucalyptus or any other suitable antiseptic oint- ment may be substituted. After the sore has been properly purified, a mixture consisting of 40 parts of water, 40 of glycerine and 10 of gelatine, with some oxide of zinc to make it stiffer, is applied to the outside of the dressing. This mixture becomes solid at the ordinary temperature, but is readily liquefied by gentle heat.i The liquefied material is painted over the outside of the dressing, and a double-headed bandage is put on, beginning over the centre of the ulcer, one roll going downwards towards the toes and the other upwards towards the knee. This bandage is applied smoothly and not tightly, the melted mixture is then painted on it, and, before it sets, another bandage dipped in hot water is applied over it. This dries in a very short time and forms a firm, elastic, and at the same time not too heavy support to the limb, and thus some of the disadvantages of other dressings, more especially the irregularity of the pressure which often occurs in a Martin's bandage, are avoided. If pos- sible, Unna's bandage should be put on early in the day before the leg has swollen from walking about. The dressing should be changed according to the amount of discharge present ; usually at first every other day, but at less frequent intervals as the discharge diminishes. It is readily removed by putting the leg in a tub of warm water so as to melt the gelatine; the bandages can then be unwound easily. When the ulcer has healed, the parts should be supported for some time by Unna's bandage ; massage should also be used, more especially if the scar be hard and fixed and the muscles atrophied. The legs should be frequently immersed in a warm bath, and lanoline should be rubbed into the skin to soften the epidermis. SPECIAL POINTS IN THE TREATMENT OF THE VARIOUS FORMS OF ULCER. The foregoing remarks as to treatment apply to all ulcers, but it will now be well to mention certain points peculiar to the treatment of the individual forms. 1 This is best done in a large glue-pot, or a gallipot stood in a saucepan of boiling water; in the latter case a piece of wood should be placed beneath the gallipot in order to prevent it from cracking. A very useful formula when there is any dermatitis is: Gelatine 30 parts, oxide of zinc 30 parts, glycerine 50 parts, water 90 parts. Melt, and add ichthyol 6 parts.