OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT 115 Unless there be also great shock, however, one infusion is usually sufficient to tide the patient over until a sufficient quantity of fresh corpuscles has been manufactured. When the condition is less urgent, it is better to allow the fluid to be absorbed rather tlian to inject it directly into the circulation, and this may be done by injecting the salt solution either into the rectum or under the mamma. In the latter case from fifteen to twenty ounces can be introduced on each side. Absorption will be then so regulated by the body that too rapid dilution of the blood will not take place. An excellent plan, especially when there has also been shock, is to introduce the salt solution very slowly into the rectum. An irrigator pre- ferably surrounded l)y a hot-water jacket is filled witli 'salt solution at - - Fig. 31.—Diagram to Illustrate the Method of Continuous Rectal In- fusion.—The reservoir is sliown supportrd upon a stani.l sligtitly raised above the patient's pelvis, it is connected by a length of rubber tubing with a rectal tube made of some unyielding material or of stout inJia-rubber. The rate of flow can be seen by the aid of the glass dropping tube (a) shown on the right of the apparatus. 110° F. and fixed from six to twelve inches above the level of the anus, the outflow through the tube being regulated so that the fluid only comes out drop by drop, about a pint an hour. The tube from the irrigator is attached to a rubber catheter introduced well into the rectum and left there. The advantage of this plan is that every drop of the fluid is absorbed and there is no distension of the bowel which would lead to expulsion or escape of the solution, while the administration may be continued for hours. Many variations of this method have been introduced. In one form the saline solution is kept at a constant temperature by means of a ' Thermos' flask; in another by an electrical device. In the latter apparatus the receiver is filled with salt solution at a temperature slightly above that of the body and a connection made with the house current. The heating device is so arranged that the temperature at which the saline leaves the container remains constant. It must be remembered, however, that a considerable amount of heat is lost in the passage of the fluid through I 2