EXAMINATION OF RED CORPUSCLES AND HAEMOGLOBIN 501 much water has been taken, and it will be necessary to shake it all out and begin again. If it is darker than the standard add water drop by drop, shaking after each addition until the two just match. Now read off the height of the column of fluid by means of the graduations at the side of the tube ; these indicate the amount of hasmoglobin expressed as a percentage of the normal. In Haldane's form the blood solution has to be saturated with coal- gas, which is led into the diluting tube by means of the apparatus which is sold with the haemoglobinometer, and which fits over an ordinary gas- jet (G). It is best to fill the tube with gas, and quickly cover it with the finger and shake for a few seconds. Repeat this several times, and you will find the colour of the solution changes from crimson to pink, the tint being exactly like that in the compari- son tube. Now dilute as before until the two are an exact match. It is much more easy to deter- mine this point with this apparatus than with that of Gowers, and the results are more accurate. The amount of haemoglobin is to be regarded as the most accu- rate criterion of the degree of ana-mia present. Thus it occa- sionally happens that the red corpuscles are present in normal numbers, but that the haemoglobin is greatly reduced, and in such cases the patient must be regarded as being anajmic in proportion to the deficiency in haemoglobin, in spite of the normal number of corpuscles. An estimation of the amount of haemoglobin enables the surgeon to measure roughly the amount of blood lost, and where the haemoglobin falls from day to day—in the absence of other causes for such a fall—a diagnosis of internal haemorrhage may be made in some cases. Rules have been laid down with regard to the suitability of patients for opera- tion in presence of a severe anaemia, but these can be of little practical value. If a patient is decidedly ansmic, no surgeon would choose to operate except in cases of necessity ; and in such cases he would not stay his hand because of the anaemia. Still, Mikulicz's rule may be quoted. It is that no operation should be done on patients with less than 30 per cent, of haemoglobin. Fig. 223.—Haldane's H^moglobinometer. A, Glass tube containing blood solution of standard tint. B, Graduated tube. C, Rubber stand for tubes A and B. D, Capillary pipette and suction tube; wires for cleaning the pipette are supplied. E, Bottle with pipette stopper. F, Glass tube holding six lancets. G, Tube and cap for fixing over ordinary gas burner.