CHRONIC PY.EMIA 195 pulse being watched meanwhile for any sign of depression. Antipyrin is no doubt a still more effectual antipyretic, but it is a powerful de- pressant, and may produce an alarming degree of collapse if the patient be weakly. Sponging the body with water at about go° F. is a rapid and effectual way of reducing the temperature ; it is agreeable, and not depressing. The patient should lie naked between blankets, and the sponging should be done under the blanket without exposing the surface of the body to the cold air ; it should be continued for about fifteen minutes, and the skin should be then dried with soft towels. Care must be taken to maintain the temperature of the water used for sponging. Sponging should be repeated whenever the temperature rises above 102° F. Rectal saline injections administered by the drop method (see p. 115) are often of great value. Stimulants will also be necessary, but they should not be pushed to extremes, in the early stage at any rate ; about six ounces of brandy should be given in the twenty-four hours. A larger quantity may be required at a later period, when champagne is specially useful given with or immediately after food. A liquid diet should be given ; solids only accumulate in the intestmes and upset the digestive organs. Milk (which may be combined with a few drops of saccharated lime water to prevent curdling, or with sodium citrate gr. j ad 3]) and meat juices should be given in small quantities fre- quently repeated. About four pints of milk and a pint and a-half of strong beef tea should be given in the twenty-four hours, with a teaspoonful of meat juice every four hours. Citric acid and citrates are also of value. The question of vaccines in acute pyaemia is dealt with in the Appendix. Though they are sometimes of value, the dose must be deter- mined very carefully, for if this be too large much harm may be done. CHRONIC PYEMIA. Besides the acute form of pyaemia described above, there are various chi"onic types which are associated with other organisms, particularly the pneumococcus. It often happens that, although repeated abscesses form and the disease is very protracted, the internal organs remain free from infection ; this form is termed external pyemia. There may also be a remarkable restriction of the infection in some cases to one type of tissue ; for example, a primary abscess in a joint may be followed by secondary abscesses in other joints, the bone and subcutaneous tissues remaining healthy, while in other cases the skin only is affected and there may be a large number of abscesses in the skin and subcutaneous tissue without any infection of bone, joints, or viscera. Secondary abscesses may follow immediately upon the primary one, or there maybe a quiescent interval between them ; this conchtion is most commonly met with in children. TREATMENT.—Any external abscess will require to be opened. Any joint that becomes infected must be fixed upon a splint, opened freely, and a drainage-tube inserted. The patient is usually not in a condition