INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUEL.E 2 quickened, but slowing of the blood-stream soon becomes evident, and eventually complete stasis or coagulation of the blood takes place within the vessels at the focus of the inflammation in severe cases. During this period also, fluid collects in the surrounding tissues, which become much swollen. Probably this fluid is mainly derived from the blood plasma, but in part it is lymph retained in the tissues. Not only does fluid accumulate outside the vessels and coagulate there, but the white corpuscles pass out through the walls of the veins in large numbers, and also to some extent through those of the capillaries ; in certain inflamma- tions also, red blood-corpuscles may escape from the blood-vessels. The inflammatory process may come to a stop at this stage, if the cause has ceased to act, and then the process known as resolution sets in, that is to say, the exuded material becomes broken up and removed by the lymphatic vessels, and the migrated corpuscles either re-enter the blood- vessels or the lymphatics, or break down and are carried away in the form of debris. The dilated vessels gradually regain their tone, and ultimately the part resumes its normal appearance and structure. In very severe cases, on the other hand, the stasis and exudation may be so great as to lead to gangrene of the part even at this early stage. Changes in the Later Stages.—Inflammation that has gone on to this degree generally proceeds further, and the inflammatory process gradually brings about the disappearance of the original tissue which becomes replaced by what is known as granulation tissue, composed, in the first instance, of round cells and embryonic blood-vessels. When this stage of granulation is reached one of three things will happen. In the first place, the irritant may cease to act, in which case the inflamma- tory process subsides and retrogressive changes take place, in the course of which the cells composing the granulation tissue develop into fibrous tissue, and the blood-vessels diminish in number and become blocked by a process analogous to arteritis ; the ultimate result of this is the formation of scar tissue, and not restoration of the part to its normal condition, as is the case in resolution. In the second place, the process may end in suppuration if the cause of the inflammation be more persistent, as it usually is. In the third place, the result known as ulceration may follow, when the inflammatory process affects the skin or mucous membrane, and is not very violent. SYMPTOMS.—We shall consider first the symptoms of the early stage ; these are partly local and partly general. The local changes are diffuse redness of the part, which is most intense at the centre, and swelling, which varies in character at different parts, being hard and brawny towards the centre of the inflammatory area and soft and cedematous towards its margins and which sometimes assumes large proportions. There is also heat and severe pain, usually of a throbbing character, which is worse when the inflammation affects dense tissues and when the part assumes the dependent position.