165 TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS fail to secure asepsis ; a fairly large drainage-tube should be inserted at one angle, and should extend into any recess that may be present beneath the scalp. After the wound has been disinfected and drained, the hair in the vicinity should be impregnated with a paste made by mixing the double cyanide of mercury and zinc with i in 20 carbolic lotion; this is rubbed into the hair, which is thus converted into an antiseptic dressing. If the wound be a lacerated one, and particularly if it be inflicted by a dirty blunt instrument, it will be well to swab it over with undiluted carbolic acid before bringing its edges together, and it is not necessary to devote any great care to their approximation, because primary union will probably only be partial at best ; just enough stitches should be employed to keep the flap in place. Antiseptic dressings are then applied (see p. 150). Unless there be pain or some other sign of sepsis, the wound should be dressed in about four days, and then the drainage-tube may be left out and the wound allowed to close. If, however, the attempt to secure asepsis has failed (as will be evidenced by local inflammation and general fever), the dressings must be changed more frequently; but in no case is it advisable to wash out the wound with an antiseptic solution. TREATMENT OF WOUNDS ALREADY SEPTIC. Another group of incised wounds, not made bv the surgeon, that demand consideration are those in which several days at least have elapsed between their infliction and the time they come under the surgeon's notice. Wounds of this kind may be divided into open granulating wounds, and those in which there is only a small opening at the surface and a deep track running inwards ; this latter condition is known as sinus or ilstula. Treatment. — Of Open Granulating' Wounds—Unless these are extensive, involve important structvu'es, or arc situated on parts exposed to frequent movement, they generally heal readily, provided that there be free exit for the discharge, which is the first essential in treatment. If the mflammation be only slight, an antiseptic gauze dressing (see p. 150) may be used and changed daily ; when, however, the discharge is foul, a lotion of peroxide of hydrogen (10 vols.) in addition is useful. When there is much inflammation in the neighbouring parts, and especially when the wound is lacerated or contused, constant irrigation (see p. 32) may be employed. When the wounds are in important situations, such as the palm of the hand, or close to and involving tendon sheaths, bones, and the hke, it is advisable in addition to make an attempt to ol^tain thorough and immediate disinfection of the part. This can be done most effectually by putting the patient under a general anccsthetic, scraping all the granulation-tissue from the surface of the wound with a flushijig