DRUGS INJECTED INTO THE TISSUES 485 HYPODERMIC INJECTIONS. In this process the procedure is sufficiently simple. The solution is injected, a few drops at a time, over the whole area of the operation ; when necessary some of the injections are carried beyond the skin into the muscles or other deeper tissues. Care must be taken that the maximum dose of the constituent drug is not exceeded, the solution being diluted to the required strength. The pain of the punctures may be overcome by freezing the surface with a spray of anaestile, or by making the first prick endevmically and extending the subsequent punctures deeper and deeper from the margins of the wheal thus raised. Infiltration.-—In this process reliance is placed upon the quantity of fluid injected rather than upon any specific action of the minute quantities of the drugs that it may contain. Schleich, who introduced the plan, adds from i\ to 30 grains of cocaine to a quart of water, but Kocher considers even this small quantity unnecessary. The technique is practically the same as in the hypodermic process, except that the injections are carried out much more systematically, and the tissues below and all round the operation area are thoroughly flooded with the solution, from i to 15 ounces being used.i The great oedema produced by this plan is thought by some, who have tried, it to be very objectionable in itself, and also to retard the healing process (Kocher op. cit.). CONDUCTION AN/ESTHESIA. In this process the injections are made either into (endoneural) or round (perineural) the principal nerve trunks supplying the area of operation ; these may or may not be at some distance away from the site of the incisions. The anaesthesia is rendered more effective and prolonged if a constricting band is placed round the limb above the point at which the search for the nerve is about to be made. The search for the nerve trunk may be made under the influence of an hypodermic injection, and if, to the latter, an addition of from I to 3 drops of the adrenalin solution be made, it will act almost as well as a constricting band. In regions of the body where the sensory nerves have already taken a subcutaneous course, e.g. the hand or foot, it may suffice to make a circular or semi-circular band of subcutaneous injections a little way above the part. ' Barker, who in this country has employed this method systematically, uses Eucaine 3 grains. Sod. Chlor. 12 grains in 3^ ounces boiled water. Half the quantity may be injected, and by the addition of Tll^ioof adrenalin (i in 1000) the toxic action of the eucaine is restrained and as much as 7 ounces of the solution can be used in major operations. British Medical Journal, ii., 1904, p. 1683 ; and Practitioner, Septem- ber 1907, p. 329.