ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 219 administration by other means. It is simple, cleanly, and painless, and involves the minimum amount of trouble to both surgeon and patient. There are, however, two groups of patients for whom it is unsuited— namely, those who wish to avoid taking the drug and those who assimilate it from the alimentary canal either too slowly or not at all. Therefore intra- muscular injections are largely employed in the pubhc services, partly on account of the simplicity of the procedure, the accuracy of the dosage and the consequent shortening of the course, but chiefly because the patient is certain of receiving and absorbing the desired quantity of mercury. In all cases in which gastro-enteritis follows the administration of the drug by the mouth and in those of very severe and rapid syphilis in cachectic subjects, some more rapid means of bringing the patient under the influence of the drug than that obtained by oral adminis- tration should be adopted. The only drawback to administation by the mouth in cases in which it is well borne is that the course is longer, on account of the slower absorption of the drug from the ali- mentary canal. Among the various preparations of the drug administered by the month, the metallic form acts best during the early stages, and is usually given either in the form of blue ]iill or as a pill of hydrargyrum cum creta. In this stage also it is well to combine it with iron, and the following is a good formula : R Pil. h^'clrargyri. . . . . gr. i Ferri siilphati.s . . . . • gr- h Extract, opii . . . . ■ gr- \ M. Ft. pil. Two pills to be taken thrice daily. ' Hutchinson's formula ' consists of hydrarg. c. cret. and Dover's powder in equal quantities made up into four-grain pills, one of which is taken three times a day. The amoimt of Dover's powder should be varied according to the action of the mercury upon the bowels. The quantity of mercury may be gradually increased, so long as no intestinal irritation is produced, imtil the mercury begins to manifest its physiological effects, as shown by salivation or soreness of the gums. When this stage is reached, the dose should be reduced, or, if the tenderness of the gimis be extreme, the drug may be discontinued entirely for two or three days until the tenderness has passed off, when it may be resumed in smaller doses. It should not be discontinued altogether when the physiological effects manifest themselves ; as a rule the secondary phenomena do not disappear until the physiological action of the mercury is apparent. This method is the one we prefer to use if possible. The accompanjdng table, taken from the Manual of Venereal Diseases, by the officers of the R.A.M.C., indicates the methods adopted in the army for the treatment of syphilis. Anj' course is, however, liable to necessary variations, and must not be adhered to too strictly. The