454 ANAESTHETICS for the space of about a quarter of an inch, or even less ; a few more breaths being allowed, another rotation of about the same extent is made. These movements are repeated at short intervals until, finally, the index points to about the 2, at which position it is maintained until a suffici- ently profound degree of narcosis is obtained. Each movement of the ether chamber should be made during an expiration, and no additional onward movement should take place so long as there is any coughing, spasm, or other indication that the vapour is producing irritation. It is seldom, if ever, necessary to give a greater strength of vapour than that indicated above, and, in fact, when the primary skin incisions have been made, and the patient has become quiet, and saturated with ether, it is, advisable to diminish the strength of the vapour by turning the ether chamber back towards the i, or even to remove the bag altogether. The Open and Semi-open Methods.—Of late years some adminis- trators have urged that better results are obtained by dispensing altogether with the bag, and simply spreading the ether over an evaporating surface held just above the nose and mouth. In America, where this practice is particularly in vogue, an AUis's inhaler (see Fig. 201) is employed, or one of the masks, figured on p. 465, can be used; this is the semi-open method. In the completely open method a Skinner's or a Schimmelbusch's frame is used (see Fig. 205) as for chloroform. In either method the supply of ether to the evaporating surface must be continuous. It is claimed for these plans, that as there is no obstruction to the breathing, there is less lividity. The period of induction is however prolonged, the amount of ether used very large, and the atmosphere unpleasantly saturated with the vapour. Bronchitis and ' water-logging' are by no means abolished, though it is maintained by some that these may be much diminished by the prior injection of atropine (gr. jjj^). It is certainly of service in children and old people and to maintain the anaesthesia induced by other means. It is usual to divide the process of ansesthetisation into four stages, but it must be understood that this arrangement is somewhat artificial; chni- cally, the different stages overlap one another, and are not equally weU defined in every case. These stages are :—First, the stage of confusion of ideas, with subjective sensations of dizziness, tingling of the extremities, etc. Second, the stage of excitement and more or less struggling. Third, the stage of anaesthesia, with flaccidity of the limbs, slow movements of the eyeballs from side to side, aboHtion of the conjunctival and other super- FiG. 201.—Allis's Inhalhr. This consists of a mask of leather laced round a metal frame of many ribs ; over these ribs is wound a long strip of flannel, domette, or some such material. The ether is poured in a small continuous stream on the flannel.