14 INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS The bath usually lasts from half an hour to one hour. In all probability, poultices and hot fomentations act in the same way as this method. Combined arterial and venous hypercemia may be produced by the suction method, in which the affected part is placed in a partial vacuum. This is usually effected by means of a glass vessel joined to the limb by a tight indiarubber collar, and exhausted—either by an ordinary air-pump or by a syringe—until a vacuum equal to two inches of mercury is pro- duced. The suction method has distinct advantage in some cases ; for example, in dealing with sinuses, not only is congestion produced, but the pus is removed efficiently (see Fig. 6). The actual details of the application of the method to special cases will be explained in connection with the diseases in question. The mode of action of Bier's treatment is not quite clear, but the most recent view is that by increasing the circula- tion of blood and lymph in the part, it floods the latter with serum rubber collar. The air is then exhausted through the tube. containing opsonins, which render the bacteria vulnerable to the phago- cytic elements of the body. General Treatment.—This should be directed partly to relieving symptoms such as pain, and partly to promoting the excretion of the toxins absorbed into the blood from the inflamed area. With the latter object attempts are made to dilute the toxins in the blood by giving diluent drinks, and also to assist the secretions from the skin, the bowels, and the kidneys. Purgatives. In a case of inflammatory fever, it is important to administer a purge without delay; among the best is sulphate of magnesia or some other saline. Half an ounce or more of the sulphate of magnesia is given dissolved in a little water ; the more concentrated the solution is the better is its effect. At least one copious watery evacuation daily should be thus ensured. The purge clears out decomposing material from the intestine, and should be given even when the bowels have been pre- viously acting quite regularly. It also causes transudation of a quantity of water from the blood, and thus possibly removes a certain amount of the toxins. At the same time, it probably acts also as a counter-irritant, and thus exerts a further beneficial effect.