TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS Lister's Cyanide Gauze.—The most universally applicable and most satisfactory dressing yet introduced is the latest dressing proposed by Lord Lister—viz. gauze impregnated with the double cyanide of mercury and zinc. Certain precautions must be taken in using this dressing. As it comes from shops it is not sterile, and must be disinfected before use (see p. 97). Even when it has been sterilised in an autoclave it is well to moisten the layers applied next to the skin with i in 60 or i in 40 carbolic acid or i in 2000 perchloride of mercury solution, for two reasons : in the first place, the wet gauze absorbs the blood better aiid diffuses it more evenly through the dressing ; while, in the second place, the double cyanide dissolves so slowly in the blood that dust falling upon the wound may have time to infect it before the cyanide has had time to become dissolved by the blood, especially if a drainage-tube has been used. Outside the gauze we apply either salicylic or cyanide wool, sterilised in an autoclave if possible; large quantities are used, and a wide area of skin all around the wound should be covered. Besides being extensive in area, the dressing should be of considerable thickness, some twelve to twenty folds of gauze being employed. Pressure.—After applying the first few folds of gauze, it is well, in some cases—e.g. operations for hernia—to place over the wound sterile sponges wrung out of the antiseptic, so as to approximate the deeper parts and prevent the formation of a cavity. Outside the sponges more gauze is applied, and outside this again a mass of sterilised salicylic or cyanide wool. Salicylic wool does not absorb well, and the object in employing it is not so much to furnish an additional antiseptic layer (though that is an important point) as to provide a material which, while permitting evaporation, leads to a diffusion of blood and serum over a considerable area of the cyanide dressings. As a matter of fact, however, the dis- charge from the wound is usually slight when sponge pressure is employed, and seldom reaches the wool at all. Bandages are applied outside the wool, specially firm pressure being brought to bear over the sponges. When to change Dressing's.—A dressing of this kind is usually left undisturbed for about ten days, unless there be some reason for changing it, such as discomfort, fever, the presence of a drainage tube, or any suspicion of sepsis. It is a mistake to change a dressing soon after the operation unless it be really necessary, because the dressing adheres to the skin, and, in pulling it off, the union of the deeper parts may be disturbed, and bleeding may even occur into them. The following are the principal cases in which an early change of dressing is called for: (i) In some cases, the dressings become hard and uncomfortable as they dry, and in sensitive patients therefore it may be advisable to change them at the end of three or four days ; the second dressing never becomes so hard and uncomfortable as the first.