AFTER-TREATMENT 479 in the more troublesome cases morphine may be called for, but in the majority of instances time alone is all that can be depended upon. Cases involving severe ' surgical shock ' require additional care. In such cases, the amount of the aniesthctic used in the latter stages may, with advantage, be very much diminished, and strychnine hypodermically may be given freely up to jijj grain. It is in these cases, too, that the hypodermic injection of brandy or ether may be of value, but enemata of hot black coffee or beef-tea are probably better. Such patients should not be put back to bed too soon, but be kept on the operating table, which should be raised some four or five inches from the ground at one end so as to raise the patient's legs. Anaesthetised patients are so very apt to be blistered by hot water bottles that I now make it an absolute rule, never to permit one to be placed in the bed, until after the lapse of twenty-four hours. If additional warmth be required, hot blankets should be used. If the shock be the result of loss of blood it may be advisable to give an injection of normal salt solution into the veins, the cellular tissue of the axilla or the rectum (see p. 112) ; the hot nutrient enemata recom- mended above is also very efficacious. The patient may recover perfectly from the immediate effects of the anaesthetic, but it occasionally happens that, about twenty-four hours after, his temperature rises and his pulse becomes feeble and quick ; there is great restlessness and some delirium, and the patient dies coma- tose. At the post-mortem the liver is found to be enlarged and to present every indication, microscopically, of acute fatty degeneration. These fatalities are most frequent in children, and after chloroform, but they are also seen in young adults, and after other aucesthetics ; and the con- dition known as status lymphaticus acts as a predisposing cause. The treatment of these cases is unsatisfactory ; stimulants and cardiac tonic such as strychnine, digitaline, etc., are indicated, but when once the coma has set in, recovery is rare ; in this as in other respects they some- what resemble cases of diabetic coma. The train of symptoms described above has been the subject of careful inquiry by Stiles and MacDojiald. These investigators suggest that the symptoms are due to the toxic action of the anaesthetic rather than to septic infection, as was at one time supposed, and as the micro- scopic appearances might lead one to suspect. In accordance with these recent views, the condition is now known as that of ' delayed chloroform poisoning,' and the responsibihty for the death is shifted from the operation to the anaesthetic. I must confess that I have practically no experience of these cases. Diet.—No food should be given by the mouth for at least three or four hours after an anaesthetic has been administered (in the case of nitrous oxide, however, an hour's abstinence will suffice), and a further wait of two or three hours should be made, unless the patient express a