DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES 291 INDICATIONS.—The following are the points that would lead the surgeon to employ certain operations in particular cases, (i) When the fingers are not bent beyond a right-angle, subcutaneous division is usually as satisfactory a method as any other. (2) When there are only one or two tight bands, when the skin is not markedly puckered, and when the fingers are not greatly contracted, the best method is to remove the fascia by careful dissection—the second procedure described. (3) In very advanced cases, in which the fingers are tightly flexed into the palm, this latter operation cannot be performed, because it is impossible to get proper access to the palm so as to make the requisite incisions. The best treatment then is to get the finger as straight as possible by means of subcutaneous division in the first instance. As a rule, however, this will not allow the finger to come quite straight because the skin itself is contracted, and therefore a further operation must be combined with subcutaneous division, so as to complete the straightening of the finger. The two operations, however, should be done at different times. Sub- cutaneous division endangers the vitality of the skin at various points, which, however, rarely sloughs, unless too great pressure be brought to bear on it ; but if another operation were done immediately after it, the damaged portions of the skin would almost certainly die. Hence sufficient time must be allowed to elapse between the subcutaneous and the open operation to allow these damaged portions of skin to recover properly, and during this time the fingers should be kept somewhat extended on a splint ; three weeks' interval is usually enough. The V operation is to be preferred in these cases. It is useless to attempt to dissect out the contracted fascia soon after subcutaneous division has been done, because all the tense bands have been divided, and they cannot be defined properly. Subcutaneous division of the palmar fascia and the processes connected with it is the method most commonly employed, but it is not always the most satisfactory. Before performing this, or indeed any operation upon the palm, steps should be taken to soften the skin as much as possible for several days beforehand. The palm should be subjected to frequent soakings in hot water, washings with soft soda-soap, and kneadings with glycerine, vaseline, or lanoline. The operation itself must be carried out with scrupulous regard to antiseptic precautions (see p. 100). A tenotomy knife with a very small cutting blade is cautiously insinuated flatwise between the skin and the fascia ; the cutting edge is then turned towards the fascia, and the contracted bands (which are rendered tense by traction upon the finger) are divided one after the other. As a rule a good many punctures are required, and the fascia must be nicked in all directions. The principal seat of division will be in the digital processes, so that the punctures are generally made between the transverse crease of the palm and the line of the first interphalangeal joint. When there is also puckering of the skin, the knife should be u 2