THE ENUMERATION OF THE LEUCOCYTES 495 moderate—not exceeding 16,000 per cubic millimetre—if no pus develops. But if the organisms are sufficiently powerful to lead to suppuration the number of leucocytes usually rises to a decidedly higher level, and figures of 20,000 to 30,000 are commonly met with. It must, however, be under- stood that there is no definite figure which certainly indicates pus, and the true test as to the nature of the processes which are taking place in the affected area is the behaviour of the leucocytes from day to day. With a rising count it is practically certain that the disease is progress- ing, and when the count begins to fall it may be regarded as a strong indication that it is subsiding. When a diagnosis as to the presence or absence of pus has to be made on a single count the most useful rule is to regard any count under 18,000 per cubic millimetre as indicating the absence of suppuration; whilst numbers above this increase the pro- bability of there being pus present in proportion to their height, and when 20,000 is reached the disease will, with very few exceptions, turn out to be suppurative. The foUowing cautions must be borne in mind : (i) Many other con- ditions—pneumonia, septicjemia, etc., give a high leucocytosis, and the test loses its value if any of these are present as a complication. (2) The leucocytosis is due to a passage of the toxins into the tissues, and an abscess that is draining freely, e.g. into the bowel, will not cause much increase. I have twice seen a fall in the number of leucocytes consecu- tive to a rupture of an appendicitic abscess into the intestine. On the other hand, in Cases in which an abscess has been opened and the fall in the leucocytes which indicates the free escape of the toxic material has occurred, a further rise indicates either the formation of another abscess or the obstruction of a sinus and consequent inefficient drainage. (3) In old thick-walled abscesses in which the causative bacteria are dead, or at least latent, there is no leucocytosis : no toxins are being produced to cause it. It is the process of suppuration and not the presence of pus that is indicated by the test. Hence (as hinted above) a fall in the number of leucocytes does not necessarily indicate that the disease is resolving without suppuration, although this is its most usual significance. (4) Tuberculous abscesses do not cause leucocytosis unless a secondary infection with pyogenic bacteria should supervene. (5) Suppurative in- flammation of surfaces—such as that of the bronchus, intestine, etc., are equivalent to abscesses which are discharging freely and cause but moderate leucocytosis. In a few cases of acute suppuration where there is a large surface involved and where the organism is extremely virulent-—e.g. in a case of general peritonitis occurring in the course of a severe attack of puerperal fever—there may be no leucocytosis, or even a diminution in the number of leucocytes (leucopenia). This is of extremely ill omen, and such patients usually die very quickly : the absence of leucocytosis may be taken to indicate that they are not making any attempt to combat the