TUMOURS COMPOSED OF MORE COMPLEX TISSUES 257 veins which leave it. The needles should be insulated by means of shellac or guttapercha, or some similar material, right up to within a quarter of an inch of the point, and should be pushed into the ncevus until the insulated portion lies in the hole in the skin. If the needle be not properly insulated where it passes through the skin it will produce a slough, which will not only leave a scar, but inay also be a point of entrance for septic material into the clot. Care must be taken that the points of the needles do not approach too near the surface of the tumour, whether it be skin or mucous membrane, for, even if they do not actually perforate it, they may lead to sloughing and subsequent sepsis ; this is particularly Fio. 60.—Methods of inserting the Needles in Electrolysis of a N^vus. In the upper figure the needles are parallel, and the current is evenly diffused over a large area ; this is the correct method. In the lower figure the current becomes concentrated at the centre of the tumour, which is therefore liable to slough. TJie periphery is hardly acted upon at all. [Lewis Jones.) likely to happen if the points of several needles be close together. If more than one needle be introduced into the naevus, care should be taken to keep them parallel to each other, so as to ensure equable diffusion of the current and avoid sloughing (see Fig. 60). A useful and ingenious handle has been suggested by Dr. Lewis Jones for this purpose (see Fig. 61). By its means the needles are kept parallel, while both positive and negative electrodes can be inserted into the tumour if desired. The needles should be rendered aseptic by boiling ; it is well not to immerse them in strong carbolic lotion, as that destroys the insulating material, and, if steel needles are used, an immersion in a i in 500 perchloride solution would damage the metal. As a rule platinum needles are to be preferred ; the only drawback is that it is impossible to get a good sharp point to them. An alcoholic solution of shellac should be at hand with which the needles can be painted to renew any of the insulation that has become faulty. I. s