223 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS need only be injected once a week ; they have the disadvantage, however, that a week's supply of mercury is injected at one sitting and absorption of the drug cannot be checked should any mercurialism manifest itself. The use of such a preparation as a routine in all cases is therefore not to be recommended ; it is better to reserve it for cases in which administra- tion of grey powder by the mouth fails, and in which therefore there can be no abnormal susceptibility to the drug. The injection should be made with rigid aseptic precautions, the needle, which should be of platino-iridium, should be inserted deeply into the substance of a large muscle, such as the gluteus ma.ximus or deltoid, at right-angles to the surface, care being taken to avoid large nerve-trunks. The needle is best sterilised in olive oil, which does not blunt, it and at the same time acts as a lubricant. Although the material injected contains mercury, it must be carefully sterilised or there may be trouble- some suppuration. It is also important to prevent the injection escaping along the needle-track during and after the injection ; if it does, a painful subcutaneous nodule will occur. The injection should not be begun until the needle is well into tlie muscle, and should tlien be made slowly so as to separate but not rupture the muscular hbres. The following is the plan of treatment followed at the Rocliester Row Hospital, and gives a good idea of an average course: Injections of IVIetaUic Mercury Mouths Injections Grs. Hg First Course. 6 injections (each weekly) ..... I i 6 6 Interval, 2 months ...... 2 Second Course. 4 injections (each fortnightly) .... 2 4 4 Interv^al, 4 months ...... 4 Third Course. Same as second ....... 6 4 4 FouilJi Course. 4 injections (each fortnightly) .... 4 4 6 months' rest ....... 6 Fifth Course. Same as fourth ....... 4 4 Total 25 i 22 22 Each injection consists of n\x of the cream and contains gr. j of metallic mercury. It is possible that our present ideas as to the length of time that is required for a course of mercurial treatment may undergo considerable alteration should the Wassermann serum test prove reliable and of