i66 WOUNDS spoon (see Fig. 52), and sponging it over with undiluted carbolic acid, which is afterwards washed away with a i in 2000 solution of perchloride of mercury. Iodoform may then be sprinkled over the wound and gauze dressings applied. When the wound is superficial and freely exposed, this will generally secure its disinfection. If there be any objection to the administration of an anaesthetic, and if the wound be small, a similar result may be obtained by packing it with lint or gauze soaked in strong carbolic oil (i in 5) and applied to the wound without being wrung out; this is changed night and morning, and the surrounding skin is washed with a I in 20 carbolic acid sokrtion. The strong carbolic oil is not an actual caustic, but it prevents heahng ; it should be discontinued as soon as the wound has assumed a healthy appearance, and strong boric oint- ment substituted until heahng commences at the edge, when the half- strength ointment should take its place. When Septic Sinuses are present.—When septic sinuses are present within the area of operation—as, for example, in sequestrotomy— they should be thoroughly scraped with a sharp spoon and swabbed with undiluted carbohc acid before the operation is begun, so as to minimise the risk of infecting the wound that the surgeon makes during the course of his operation. After the operation has been completed, the septic cavity should be scraped again, and undiluted carbolic acid applied, after which the walls of the sinuses should be cut away as completely as possible. In this way, an aseptic wound will be obtained in a consider- able number of cases. When the latter is smaU or superficial, one or more large drainage-tubes should be inserted into the most dependent parts of the wound, the skin-edges brought together with silkworm-gut, antiseptic dressings apphed, and the wound treated as if it were one made through unbroken skin. Should the attempt to purify the wound fail, the best dressing is boric lint. When, however, the cavity in the deeper parts is large—as after opera- tions for necrosis of the tibia or femur—it is best to pack the wound wth cyanide gauze, without attempting to bring its edges together. Unless this be done, the opening in the skin is likely to close so rapidly that the discharge from the deeper parts cannot escape freely, and healing does not occur ; moreover, the irritation of the gauze leads to more rapid growth of granulations, which thus fill up the wound. The external gauze dressing should be changed on the day following the operation, and subsequently as often as the amount of discharge present may demand. The packing, however, should not be removed until it becomes loose ; it should be gently pulled upon at each dressing and any loose portions cut away. After the loose portion has been cut off, fresh gauze should be laid on the remaining packing so as to fill up the cavity. When the wound remains aseptic it may be two or three weeks before aU of it can be removed. Should the wound become septic, the packing comes away readily, and should then be renewed daily until the cavity has