299 CHAPTER XV FLAT FOOT Flat foot is essentially an affection of adolescence ; it may, however, occur in comparatively young children, and it is often-met "with after growth has ceased. It is sometimes spoken of as ' spurious valgus,' but in reality it has nothing in common with tnie valgus, as it is primarily due to the giving way of the arch of the foot. CAUSES.—The affection may develop either rapidly or gradually. Acute fiat foot is generally the result of some inflammatory condition affecting the stmctures in the sole, more particularly the calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments ; it is common as a form of gonorrhoeal rheumatism, after acute or chronic rhetunatism itself, and after any inflammatory conditions about the foot which soften the hgaments. The acute form also occurs in conjunction with such injuries about the ankle joint as Pott's fracture and fracture of the astragalus or os calcis. These cases are sometimes called ' traumatic flat foot.' In most cases, however, flat foot develops slowly, and is most marked in weakly subjects and in those whose occupations entail prolonged standing, such as barmaids or shop-assistants. In this form the essential factor at work is a gradual weakening of the muscles which should support the tarsal bones. As a result of this failure of muscular power— which may be due either to undue weakness of the muscles or to unduly heavy strains being put upon normal muscles—excessive strain is thrown upon the supporting hgaments of the tarsus with the result that they become stretched and allow the arch of the foot to become flattened. The chronic form is also met with in association with rickets, particularly genu valgum, in which the weight of the body is thrown more upon the inner border of the foot than upon the sole. Any condition which leads to eversion of the foot throws the body weight upon its inner border and favours the production of this deformity. The condition seems to be more common in males than in females. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—As the result of the yielding of the arch of the foot, the head of the astragalus becomes partially dislocated