358 DEFORMITIES Amputation.—In those cases in which the exaggerated deformity is the result of infantile paralysis, and in which there is almost complete uselessness of the foot, the question of amputation will arise. The answer mainly depends upon the vitality of the parts. In the paralytic forms the tissues are often imperfectly nourished, ulcers are liable to form from the most trivial causes, chilblains are common, and consequently the result of extensive operations upon the skeletal structures of the foot is not satisfactory. Under these circumstances therefore it is much better to amputate, and to fit the patient with an artificial limb, as he wUl then have a useful limb and be free from trophic troubles, which would not be the case after any partial operation which involves retention of the foot. In the congenital cases on the other hand, in which the nutrition of the foot is good, the question of amputation will only arise very rarely ; it is only called for when repeated attacks of inflammation and suppuration in the various bursae, possibly extending into the joints, have rendered the chance of remedying the condition by any form of tarsectomy very remote indeed. In such cases, Syme's amputation will leave the patient in a much better condition than before operation, or than could be obtained by any form of tarsectomy. The osteo-plastic operations practised for the cure of club-foot are numerous, but for practical purposes they may be divided into two groups. In the first are those in which one or more of the tarsal bones are excised, and in the second are the operations involving the removal of wedge-shaped portions of the tarsus without any regad to the articulations of the portion removed. The operations included in the first group are numerous. Various tarsal bones, more particularly the astragalus and the cuboid, have been removed, but the results do not appear to be particularly good ; removal of the astragalus, although of some value as a cure for the equinus, does not seem to influence the varus part of the deformity to any extent. The removal of wedge-shaped portions of the tarsus without regard to the articulation of the portion removed, on the other hand, is a valuable method. The operation, which is generally spoken of as ' cuneiform tarsectomy,' consists in removing a wedge-shaped portion of the tarsus at the transverse tarsal joint by means of a saw or chisel, the portion thus excised having its base directed outwards and slightly upwards, whilst its apex is at the inner border of the sole. The amount of bone taken away will vary with the degree of deformity present, the object being to remove sufficient to permit the outer border of the foot to be shortened to the degree requisite to bring the concave inner border straight. The parts included in this excision generally comprise portions of the OS calcis, astragalus, cuboid, and scaphoid. The operation is performed as follows. The limb is steadied upon a sandbag, and the surgeon divides all the shortened tendons, fascia and ligaments that can be reached on the inner side of the foot with a teno-