ii8 WOUNDS abnormally irritable or at times hysterical for twelve months after a hysterectomy, although recovery from the operation seems to have been complete. Even after less severe operations the condition of mental lassitude and irritability is often well marked, and patients will be content to lie in bed doing nothing when they might be expected to read, write, or otherwise amuse themselves. The effect of the anaesthetic must be also borne in mind. All anae- sthetics are protoplasmic poisons, and in some cases microscopical changes can be actually observed in the tissues after prolonged anaesthesia, for example, fatty degeneration of the liver cells and disappearance of the Nissl granules of the cerebral cortex. Moreover, during anaesthesia the loss of heat from the skin is not compensated for by the action of the thermal centres and the patient is therefore extremely sensitive to cold. Under normal conditions, lowering of the temperature leads to an increase in the output of carbonic acid, but in an antesthetised condition the reverse obtains and the carbonic acid output is actually diminished as the temperature fahs. This point, which has been investigated experimentally, indicates the importance of warmth during the administration of an anaesthetic. The degree of shock depends on the part of the body operated upon ; for example, a long time may be spent in repairing a badly united or un-united fracture of the extremities without producing anything like the amount of shock that a much shorter and gentler operation on the abdominal cavity will cause, especially if the peritoneum be inflamed. Loss of blood also increases the risk of shock, which is therefore more marked in operations in which there is severe haemorrhage. SYMPTOMS.—If shock comes on during an operation, its presence is indicated by increasing pallor and weakness of the pulse, which becomes rapid, dicrotic, and sometimes irregular. The pupils become dilated, the reflexes are slow, there is often sweating about the forehead, and the skin becomes cold. After the operation the pulse remains bad and the patient cold, and, though consciousness may be recovered to some extent, the senses are dull. When severe shock is established it is difficult to over- come, and therefore it is very important to take measures beforehand to avoid or diminish it as much as possible. TREATMEISTT.—(«) Prophylaxis.—We have already referred to several points in the preparation of the patient which are important in connection with the question of shock, such as his frame of mind, a good night's rest previous to operation, and the administration of food ; of special importance is a nutrient enema half-an-hour before the hour fixed for the operation. An essential precautionary point is to keep up the tody temperature. The temperature of the operation room should be maintained at 65° to 85° F. This, however, is not of itself sufficient in bad cases, and the best plan is to have the table on which the patient is lying kept at ioo° to 105° F. by means of hot water. In some operating tables this is accomplished