SCOLIOSIS enough to cause fatigue to the muscles of the back, and to lead to a faulty position of the spine. It is on this account that i-apidly growing weakly girls are recommended to ride on opposite sides of the horse on alternate days, so as to exercise equally the erector muscles on the two sides. Scoliosis may also be produced in children if they are always carried on the same arm, whereas if they are carried hrst upon one arm and then upon the other, no liarm results citlier to the nurse or the cliild. Cases in which the deformity is secondary to other affections of the spine or thorax.—Here the curvature of the spine is mechanical, and is produced by some alteration in that structure itself, or in the capacity of the thorax. Familiar examples are lateral curvature secondary to empyema, collapse of tlie lung, rickets, and tul)erculous disease of the spine, etc. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—After a time organic changes take place in the ligaments and the bones, so that a curvature, which at first could be easily rectihed by appropriate position, becomes more and more permanent. The hrst change that occurs is an alteration in length of the various hbrous structures on the two sides, those upon the convexity becoming stretched, and those upon the opposite side being proptjrtionately shortened. In advanced cases, the vertebral bodies themselves become altered so that each is somewhat wedge-shaped, the base of the wedge being directed towards the convexity of the curve. The surfaces of the various articular processes also become altered in direction. These bony changes are permanent, and account for the intractability of the severe cases. SYMPTOMS.—The symptoms of scoliosis may be divided into the ohjccti\'c and subjective symptoms. Objective Symptoms.—Sometimes the spine is bent to one side in a large single C-shaped curve, which may either involve the entire vertebral column, or may be conhned to the lumbar or dorsal regions. Should a curvature of this kind be at all marked, it will be necessary for one or more compensatory curves to be formed in the opposite direction for the adjustment of the centre of gravity of the bodj^ as otherwise the erect position could not he maintained. These compensatory curves have their curvature in the opposite direction to the main one, and are smaller in extent than the primary curve. In the common form of scoliosis there are generally two curves which have their convexities in opposite directions, so that the spine somewhat resembles the letter S- Of these, one is usually called the primary and the other the secondary curve. The primary curve cannot always be clearly distinguished, but a fair idea can generally be gained by consider- ing the mechanism of the formation of the curvature. If due to an in- equality in length of the lower extremities, the primary curve will be in the lumbar or lower dorsal region, whilst that in the upper dorsal is merely compensatory ; on the other hand, if the curvature be due to