351 TALIPES EQUINO-VARUS directly down on to the tendon, it is well to turn aside a flap so as to avoid any risk of adhesion of the tendon to the cicatrix in the skin. An incision, wilh its convexity forwards, is therefore made along the internal border of the tibia, and the flap, containing skin and fascia, is turned back until the edge of the tibia is exposed ; just behind this will be found the tendons of the tibialis posticus and the flexor longus digi- torum. The former tendon lies next the bone, and a blunt-pointed teno- tomy knife can be insinuated flatwise between it and that of the flexor longus digitorum. The edge of the knife is then turned towards the bone and the tendon of the tibialis divided. Should it be found that there is still some obstacle to abducting the foot, the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum may also be cut ; this, however, should be done on a difterent level to that on which the division of the tibiahs posticus has been effected. The wound is stitched up without a drainage tube. Division of the Plantar Fascia.—The plantar fascia if contracted must next be divided. This is necessary in many cases, and should be done near the centre of the sole. A tenotomy knife is introduced from the inner side of the foot, and carried across between the skin and the fascia ; it is important to remember that the skin is very close to the fascia, and that all resisting bands must be divided. As soon as one band is cut across, extension made upon the sole causes others to become tense, and these must also be divided, either from the same puncture or from another more conveniently situated. It is important that the division of the plantar fascia should be thorough (see Fig. 103). In most cases also, it is important to divide the ligaments which oppose reduction. It is true that in comparativel}' mild cases the tight ligamentous structures may be torn across at this stage by forcibly wrenching the foot into position, either with the hand alone, or with a Thomas's wrench, but in the majority it is much better to divide the ligaments systematically in the manner recommended by Parker. The anterior part of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint in particular, if not divided, usually escapes tearing when the foot is wrenched, and may interfere considerably with reposition of the os calcis. Parker also lays great stress on what he terms the ' astragalo-scaphoid capsule,' which is made up, above and internally, of the superior astragalo-scaphoid ligament reinforced by fibres from the anterior ligament of the ankle joint and the anterior portion of the internal lateral ligament, and, below, of fibres from the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. Syndesmotomy,—Under this name, Parker has described an operation by which both tendons and ligaments may be divided through one incision. He makes a puncture a Uttle below and in front of the tip of the internal malleolus, noting at the same time the position of the tibial arteries, and the direction of the tibial tendons as they cur\'e towards the internal cuneiform bone. As the tenotomy knife is entered, the parts are full}- relaxed, and it is pushed inwards o\'er the dorsum just above