OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT clamped before division if possible ; if, however, this cannot be done, the proximal end should be compressed at once by the finger, so as to prevent the accidental entrance of air ; a clamp is then put on as quickly as possible and the operation is not proceeded with until the divided ends of the vein have been closed. The accident is most likely to happen when a vein has been only partially divided, and when the rent in its wall is made during the surgeon's manipulations, as for instance in pulling forward the thyroid gland during thyroidectomy. A charac- teristic hissing sound is heard as the air enters the vein, and an operator who is on the look-out for this complication may thus detect it before there is time for the general symptoms to develop. TREATMENT.—If symptoms pointing to entry of air into a vein arise during the course of an operation, digital pressure should be made over the divided vein immediately, and the wound flooded with saline solution so as to prevent further entry of air. The next point is to try to force the air out from the vessels in the chest by forcibly compressing the chest, while at the same time the pressure on the vein is relaxed so as to allow the air and frothy blood to be poured out through its open end ; the vein is again compressed when the chest is allowed to expand, and so on. The removal of the frothy blood may also be attempted by aspirating the vein ; a smaU tube, such as a sterilised catheter, is intro- duced into it, the end of the vein compressed tightly around it, and then an attempt made to suck the froth out. As a rule, however, death is immediate when a large quantity of air has passed in. SYNCOPE. Syncope is not an infrequent complication of operations ; by the term is meant complete arrest of the heart's action, accompanied by loss of consciousness. In shock, on the other hand, the loss of consciousness is not complete and the pulse is always to be felt, although it is often very feeble. Syncope or faintness may result from sudden loss of blood; from withdrawal of blood to another part, as in tapping the abdomen for ascites ; or refiexly from sudden nervous shock, especially if the patient be not fuU}^ anssthetised. When the patient is not under an anjesthetic, syncope is usually preceded by vertigo, tinnitus, nausea, and imperfect sight, and these symptoms are followed by arrest of the heart's action, cessation of bleeding, marked pallor, dilated pupils, a cold sweat over the forehead, cold extremities, feeble or absent respiration, and total loss of consciousness. The condition is due to deficient supply of blood to the brain. Except in extreme cases, the arrest of the heart's action is only momentary, and recovery is indicated by sighing and gasping respirations, reappearance of the pulse, and gradual return of consciousness. In the treatment of syncope it must be borne in mind that the symptoms are essentially due to absence of blood from the brain, and