ACUTE INFLAMMATION II ing or relieving great engorgement of the part than they are in inflamma- tion. When used for the latter purpose, the temperature of the water circulating through them should range from 50° to 60° F. ; when used to arrest bleeding, the temperature may be as low as 33° F. Heat.—When an acute inflammation has lasted for two or three days, cold is no longer of benefit and may even cause damage ; under these circumstances the application of heat is more likely to be beneficial. It soothes the inflamed nerves, causes dilatation of the vessels, and, by increasing the flow of blood, brings more of the anti-bacteric agents into the part. Heat may be applied to the skin over an inflamed part, by means of poultices or hot fomentations. A poultice is usually made with about four tablespoonfuls of linseed meal to half a pint of water. It must not be too heavy and, as it loses its heat very quickly, special care should be taken to see that the bowl in which it is mixed, and the material on which it is spread, are well warmed previous to use. The poultice should be made as quickly as possible, and applied as hot as the patient can bear it. The linseed meal is well stirred into the boiling water so as to ensure that it is of a soft even consistency free from hard lumps or masses. When mixed, the mass is turned out upon a piece of linen, previously warmed, and large enough to extend two inches all round beyond the poultice, and upon this it is spread with a spatula in an even layer about half an inch thick. The edges of the Hnen are then turned up around the margins and the poultice is ready for use. The whole opera- tion should be carried on before a good fire. After the poultice has been applied, a layer of well-warmed wool is placed outside it, and the whole is fixed on with a bandage. A poultice generally retains its heat for about two hours, and should then be changed; when it is removed, the skin should be dried and gently chafed with a soft warm towel, and covered with a blanket until the fresh poultice is ready. Unless the pre- caution of covering up the patient be taken, the part becomes chilled, and all the good of the poultice may be undone. There are various advantages and disadvantages in the use of poul- tices as compared with fomentations. Poultices retain the heat longer, and therefore it is not necessary to change them so frequently as fomenta- tions, while, on the whole, they are considerably warmer. The chief objection to their use arises in connection with cases in which a surgical operation will be necessary subsequently. It is difficult to purify the skin effectually after a poultice has been used, for the latter is a decom- posing vegetable substance, which soaks into the hair follicles, the hairs, and the epidermis. Hence, when an abscess is likely to form, and when surgical interference may therefore be required, it is well to employ fomentations instead of poultices. Various antiseptics have been mixed with the poultice in order to render it aseptic. Charcoal, which is some- times employed, is simply a deodorant, and possesses no true antiseptic