193 ACUTE PYMIA the same organisms as those that cause septicaemia, the two affections differ widely, not only in their clinical characters, but also in the patho- logical changes met with. From the point of view of treatment, the pathological condition in pyaemia is extremely important. The disease is undoubtedly due to the pyogenic organisms, the one most frequently found being the streptococcus pyogenes. The lesions found after death are abscesses in various organs, and suppuration in connection with various serous membranes ; the abscesses are most numerous in the lung in the majority of cases, or in the liver if the wound be in connection with the bowel. The pathology of pyaemia is apparently that a vein in the neighbourhood of the wound becomes inflamed and thrombosed in the first place, and then organisms grow in the thrombus and cause it to break up gradually. Small portions containing virulent organisms are carried on in the blood-stream and become impacted in the lungs when the thrombosis is in one of the systemic veins, or in the liver when the primary source of the mischief is in the portal area. Here probably the same process is repeated, and emboli are again given off and distributed by the arterial circulation, lodging in the kidney, the spleen, the synovial or the serous membranes, etc., where they give rise to abscesses. These secondary abscesses may also be caused by the growth of streptococci float- ing free in the blood ; the cocci form long chains which coil up into masses which are unable to pass through the smaller vessels, in which therefore they become impacted. The most important point with respect to treat- ment is that the disease is generally associated with thrombosis of a vein, and is due to detachment of portions of clot from the blocked vessel. Therefore, the disease is essentially a local one, in its earlier stages at any rate, and can be effectively treated by appropriate local measures. TREATMENT.—Local.—The first point is to search for a throm- bosed vein; in the extremities this will probably be the main vein of the hmb. If there be a tender, inflamed, and blocked vein in the neighbour- hood of the wound, it should be cut down upon and traced upwards to a point where it is still patent; a double ligature is put on it tliere, and the vein divided between. It is also advisable to dissect out the thrombosed vein and any of its communicating branches which may be similarly affected, if this can be done. If this be done when the patient has only had one or two rigors, the disease may be arrested completely ; a good example of what can be done by this method of treatment is seen in pyaemia following thrombosis of the lateral sinus due to otitis media. Besides removal of the thrombosed vein, which is the most important part of the treatment, and the only one that promises anything like a radical cure, there are various other points that should be attended to. The wound should be thoroughly opened up, the pus washed away, the surface sponged with undiluted carbolic acid, and the granulations scraped away whether the vein has been removed or not. It is well to I. o