CHELOID 205 Cheloid scars often disappear in the course of time, but such a termination is uncertain and cannot be confidently reclvoned on. TREATMENT.—The condition is excessively difficult to get rid of, and, as far as our present knowledge goes, it can neither be prevented nor can its occurrence be anticipated. When it is seen that it is about to occur—i.e. when the scar shows signs of thickening—an attempt may be made to diminish the vascularity of the part by pressure, exerted by strapping, by the application of collodion, or by a firm bandage. A very simple method is to paint the scar with ordinary (not flexile) collodion; this contracts as it dries, and diminishes the blood-supply of the scar by compressing the small vessels. This method may be of value in the early stage, but is not likely to do good when the cheloid condition is well developed. In applying pressure of any kind it should be borne in mind that ulceration is apt to occur in large cheloids, and its onset may even be sometimes precipitated by the application of collodion. X-rav treatment of cheloid sometimes yields excellent results, but the sittings necessary to obtain tliis are numerous and the treatment is consequently tedious and expensive. Fibrolysin (thiosinamin salicylate) is now extensively used, 2-3 c.c. of the solution prepared by Merck being injected intramuscularly once or twice a week. This method has drawbacks ; it is slightly painful^ and local indurated swellings, lasting for several weeks, often appear at the site of injection. Its use has been followed by rashes, and one case at least of fatal purpura has been reported. Against this it must be remembered that the drug has been in use for several years and the cases in which unpleasant or dangerous symptoms have followed are very few. It is possible that it should only be used in young subjects. Cod liver oil (3j-iv) or one of its emulsions should be administered about four times a day. Scarification of the scar with a lancet or a fine electric cautery point has been practised, but it is doubtful whether any permanent benefit results from this. The question of the advisability of excising a cheloid constantly arises and has been much debated ; the great objection to excision is that the scar and the stitch marks resulting from it will almost certainly become cheloid in its turn. When a considerable area of skin has been excised, and there is so much tension on the stitches that they cut their way through the skin for some distance, a very unsightly appearance is presented should they become cheloid. At the same time it seems justifiable to remove the mass in certain cases even at the risk of linear cheloid subsequently resulting. For example, it is well to excise a broad ulcerating cheloid which gives rise to much contraction and great incon- venience, provided that the skin around is sufficiently lax to allow the edges to come together without marked tension after they have been undermined ; the old broad scar is thus converted into a linear one. Owing to the tendency of the stitch marks to become cheloid, after an