350 DEFORMITIES suitable arrangement probably is Sayre's apparatus {vide supra) without the plaster of Paris. When walking on the flat piece of wood the child tends to evert the foot more and more, whilst the extra length of the sphnt corrects the equinus fully. The chief objection to the apparatus is that it requires renewal every week, and, therefore, after a few weeks it is better to fit the child with some light form of apparatus (see p. 353) which allows him to walk freely. This is all the more essential as there is often some inward rotation of the leg remaining after the tahpes is cured and this may necessitate the use of lateral leg-irons fastened above to a pelvic band, and so arranged as to prevent any inward rotation. An apparatus of this kind may have to be worn for several years. In the second group of cases there are tight structures such as tendons, fascia, or ligaments, which oppose the re-position of the foot, and these must be divided in the first place. The tendons chiefly concerned are the tendo Achillis and those of the tibiales, whilst the plantar fascia and the ligaments around the astragalo-scaphoid joint, and in some cases part or almost the whole of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint may require division. Although all these structures may have to be divided before the foot can be got into position, it is advisable to carry out the rectification in two stages; in the first, the varus deformity is rectified whilst the equinus is left uncorrected; division of the tendo Achillis may be undertaken when the cure of the varus has been effected. This is a matter of import- ance, because the tendo Achillis is of great value as forming a point d'appui, which fixes the posterior half of the foot and permits the proper unfolding of the anterior part. If the tendo Achillis be divided at the same time as the other structures, there will be great difficulty in unfold- ing the anterior part of the foot owing to the want of such a fixed point. Tenotomy.—The first stage in the treatment consists in dividing all the various tight structures, with the exception of the tendo Achillis. In the first place, the tibial tendons which interfere with reposition of the foot must be divided, and in bad cases the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum will also require division. Division of the Tibialis aniicus Tendon.—The tibialis anticus tendon is usually divided just below the point where it crosses the ankle joint and just above its insertion into the internal cuneiform bone (see Fig. 103); at this point there is no risk of dividing any other structure. The tendon can be defined by abducting and everting the foot and thus making it tense. A tenotomy knife is inserted on one side, close to the tendon, which should be relaxed so as to allow the knife to be insinuated between it and the skin. The cutting edge of the tenotome is then turned towards the tendon, which is again put upon the stretch and divided. Division of the Tibialis posticus Tendon.—The tibialis posticus tendon is best divided through an open incision two inches above the internal malleolus, and immediately behind it (s99 Fig. 103). Instead of cutting