TUMOURS 254 The small ivopy exostoses on the outside of the skull are seldom of sufficient size to require operation. Their removal is always difficult and dangerous because, owing to their density, the force required to chip them off sometimes fractures the skull. Hence it is best to leave them alone as a rule, but, should they press on the eye, ear, or other important parts, or grow internally, it may be necessary to undertake their removal. If the growth be small, it may be possible to encircle the tumour by a large trephine, and the exostosis and the base from which it springs can be removed entire by cuttmg through normal bone all around. In the larger growths this is impossible, however, and the best way of removing them is to drill a number of holes through the base of the tumour with a dental drill, and then to join these together with a saw and thus complete the removal; in the ear it is sometimes possible to break them off by means of a sudden smart tap, after their base has been drilled. If the growth be very diffuse, and must be removed, it may require more than one operation for its satisfactory treatment. Bony growths which do not properly come under the heading of osteoma are also met with elsewhere ; among these may be mentioned the bony growths which occur from irritation in the adductors of the thigh in riders, or in the deltoid muscle in soldiers ; they are dealt with in connection with the affections of muscles. TUMOURS COMPOSED OF THE MORE COMPLEX TISSUES. Amongst the tumours composed of more complex tissues are those consisting of muscular tissue or myomata, of nerve tissue or neuromata, of blood-vessels or angiomata, of lymphatic vessels or lymphangiomata, and complex tumours and cysts. Myomata are composed of unstriped muscular fibre, and are met with where unstriped muscular fibre is normally present—e.g. in the uterus, the prostate, the wall of the oesophagus, the stomach, and the intestines. In the latter situation they generally project into the lumen of the gut, forming pedunculated polypi, covered by the mucous mem- brane. Myomata may be single, but they are more often multiple ; they form round lobulated tumours with an investing fibrous capsule, and on section they resemble fibromata except that they are of a purplish colour. They are generally very vascular, especially at the periphery, where large venous sinuses are numerous. They occur in adults, and cause trouble from their size and their tendency to bleed. Treatment.—This depends mainly upon their situation, and the con- sideration of the treatment must therefore be considered in connection with the particular organs in which they occur. Neuromata are composed of nerve tissue and are very rare, if, indeed, they ever occur; the tumours generally spoken of as neuromata are inflammatory thickenings occurring in the course of nerves, such, for