CIRCUMSCRIBED ACUTE ABSCESS 27 CIRCUMSCRIBED ACUTE ABSCESS. SYMPTOMS.—When an acute inflammation which has gone on to the formation of granulation tissue has lasted for four or five days, suppuration will almost certainly occur, and when this takes place, the centre of the brawny swelling softens, and fluctuation can be detected. When the abscess is subcutaneous, the skin ultimately gives way over the soft spot, and pus escapes. When the abscess is deep-seated, the presence of pus may not be recognised at an early period, but persistence of the acute symptoms for several days and oedema of the skin over the part are generally suflicient indications; more precise information may be obtained by a blood-count (see Appendix). TREATMENT.—Local.—When pus has formed, it should be evacuated as soon as possible. If the abscess remain unopened, it will spread and cause unnecessary destruction of tissue, besides in some cases imperilling the patient's life. Hence, when symptoms of acute inflam- mation have lasted for several days, and especially if there be oedema of the skin over the part, and still more if rigors have occurred, no time should be lost in making an incision to evacuate the pus. Opening an Abscess.—-AU the antiseptic precautions should be adopted that are practised in the treatment of wounds (see Chap. V.). This may seem an unnecessary precaution, because these abscesses, being due to pyogenic cocci, already contain the causes of suppuration. In practice, however, it is found most important to treat the abscess strictly antiseptically from the first. As a matter of fact, when an abscess is opened antiseptically it is comparatively easy to keep it aseptic, and no further suppuration occurs. On removing the first dressings, a small quantity of pus will no doubt be seen, but this is only the residual pus present in the abscess when it was opened, and if the cavity be squeezed, all that is expelled is a smaU quantity of clear serum ; this rapidly diminishes, and in a few days the abscess cavity closes. On the other hand, when the abscess is not treated antiseptically from the first, sup- puration persists. If, for example, a poultice be applied, it will be found that pus can be squeezed out, or will even flow out spontaneously when- ever the poultice is removed ; this is evidently due to fresh infection of the cavity, for, when asepsis is maintained, the organisms which originally caused the abscess die out. It is of great importance to prevent infection of the surgeon's hands, so as to avoid carrying pyogenic cocci to another case. Hence, rubber gloves should always be worn, and they must be kept on not only during the actual operation, but until the dressing has been applied and all blood and pus cleared away. Unless this be done, the surgeon's hands may become infected with pus from a soiled towel or some other article. The incision into an acute abscess should be made at the most