DEFORMITIES ago finger on each side ; the little finger is next affected, and in bad cases the remaining fingers may become attacked one after another, but in any case the ring finger is the most markedly contracted. The condition is more frequently met with in men than in women, and generally attacks those over fifty years of age. It is not uncommonly associated with gout, rheumatism, or osteo-arthritis. In some cases it is said to be hereditary, but whether it is that the tendency to this particular de- formity is hereditary, or whether it is due to the associated hereditary gouty condition, it is hard to say. It is a noteworthy fact that the con- traction is particularly prone to occur in persons, such as carpenters and the like, whose occupations necessitate considerable and repeated pressure by tools and instruments against the palm of the hand. PATHOLOGtY.—The essential alteration is thickening and shorten- ing of the palmar fascia and the various processes of fibrous tissue given off by it. These changes are mainly confined to the digital processes, in the early stages at any rate, and the result of their shortening is flexion of the finger at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. As the contraction becomes more marked there is flexion of the first interphalangeal joint as well; the second generally remains unaffected, the two terminal phalanges being nearly in the same straight line. Still later in the disease, the thickening affects the body of the palmar fascia, which then shows irregular masses of fibrous tissue upon it. The thickening also affects the small fibrous bands which pass from the surface of the fascia to the skin, and the result is that the skin becomes bound down to the palmar fascia and much puckered, so that there are often hard horny ridges and irregular thickenings in the palm, which are due to the thickened fibrous slips with the adherent skin over them. It is important to bear this point in mind when treating the condition. There is no primary con- traction of the flexor tendons, and it is almost invariably found that the tendons offer no bar to the re-position of the finger after all the fascial structures have been divided. When, however, the affection has lasted for a long time there is secondary contraction of the ligaments of the articulations that have been kept flexed, and these structures may require division before the fingers can be straightened. TREATMENT.—Nothing but operative interference is Ukely to be successful. Attempts to prevent or overcome the deformity by stretch- ing the fascia by spHnts, elastic traction, and the like, cause pain, irritate the fascia, and lead to a rapid increase in the contraction. At the same time operative treatment is not always so satisfactory in its results as could be wished, because there is a tendency to the reproduction of the deformity. Fibrolysin is often employed for this condition, and good results have been reported. Its use is, however, not free from danger, especially in old people, and cases of fatal purpura have been reported. We have seen no decided benefit from it in any of our cases.