i6o WOUNDS We need not here go into detail as to the covering-in of irregular defects, or of those in special situations ; they are dealt with in their appropriate places. The principle to which we wish to call attention is that, when the surgeon has to make good large defects of skin, curved incisions will enable him to do so with much greater ease and less extensive dissection than if straight incisions alone were employed. Use of Granulating Flaps.—When the defect is large and the flaps to be turned in are long and have a comparatively narrow base—in other words, when the blood-supply must necessarily be imperfect—it has been recommended that the flap should be dissected up but left attached at each end, and that both it and the wound should be allowed to granulate before the actual transplantation of the flap takes place. The reason for this is that the flap is more likely to retain its vitahty if it be made in this manner, while new blood-vessels and a more ample blood-supply are developed during the process of granulation. The flaps are usually rectangular, and their two ends are not de- tached. Parallel incisions are made down to the deep fascia, and then the flap is undermined throughout its whole extent, so that the finger can be passed under it in all directions. A piece of sterilised protective, sheet rubber or tinfoil is then inserted between the under surface of the flap and the deeper structures, and this is kept in place for ten days, when the new vascular supply will have developed ; one end of the flap is then divided, and the latter turned in so as to cover the defect. This method certainly overcomes great difficulties with regard to the nutrition of the flaps, but cases in which such elaborate measures are necessary are usually more successfully treated by Thiersch's skin-grafting. Occurpenee of Sepsis in Open Wounds.—Should these wounds become septic, the results are not usually very serious, unless the wound com- municates with a cavity in the bone or with the interior of a joint, etc. ; the wound is widely open, and therefore the septic material readily flows away into the dressing, and only a small amount of the toxins is absorbed. Nevertheless, if the wound be large, the temperature rises at first, and a varying degree of traumatic fever occurs, while the edges of the wound become swollen, red, and painful, and in the course of two or three days its surface becomes covered with a layer of granulation-tissue. Treatment.—As soon as it is thought, from the rise of temperature and other symptoms, that sepsis has occurred, the dressings should be removed, the surface of the wound thoroughly cleansed, and any adherent blood-clot removed. When the symptoms are not severe, the cyanide dressings may be continued, but they should be changed daUy, and the sur- face of the wound should be washed with a i in 2000 sublimate solution. If there be much inflammation, it will be well- to put a layer of mackintosh outside the wet cyanide dressings, so as to keep them moist, and to change the dressing night and morning. Carbolic lotion should not be applied to the surface of these wounds, especially in the early period,