156 WOUNDS not escaping properly, or that some general infection is occurring. In either case the wound must be opened up freely and cleansed and all recesses must be exposed. When retention of the discharge is not sufficient to account for the general symptoms, the wound should be sponged out with undiluted carbolic acid. In some cases the surgeon may even venture to scrape away the granulation-tissue with a sharp spoon, but in doing this there is always a certain risk of forcing organ- isms into the circulation. One of Barker's flushing spoons (see Fig. 52) should be employed, the fluid used for irrigation being a i in 4000 subhmate solution; when the scraping is complete, liquefied carbolic acid is swabbed over the entire surface of the wound. After this has been done, the wound should be packed with cyanide gauze and made to heal by granulation from the bottom, the packing being renewed once or twice daily if the suppuration persist. If this procedure be followed by a fall in the temperature and an amelioration of the general symptoms, it may be possible to discontinue the packing in three or Fig. 52.—Flushing Curette.—The handle of the curette is provided with a thumb-screw so that it can be moved along the instrument, and give greater purchase if required. In the small upper figure the sharp end of the curette is shown full size. four days and to stitch up the edges of the wound again after introducing a drainage-tube. When the occurrence of rigors and sudden elevations of temperature lead one to suspect pyaemia, it is important to look carefully for any thrombosed veins when opening up the wound; and should any be found, the main vein above the thrombosed area should be ligatured, and a portion excised in order to cut off the local source of infection from the general circulation. When the constitutional symptoms persist in spite of this energetic local treatment, nothing remains but to treat the patient on the lines recommended for pyemia (see p. 193). When there is diffuse cellulitis around the wound, constant irrigation (see p. 32) may be employed, to wash away the septic material as soon as it is formed. Incisions into the inflamed area may be necessary (see p. 31). When the wound has become covered with healthy granulations, the healing process can often be accelerated by secondary suture. Strong silkworm-gut stitches should be passed deeply into the tissues on either side of the wound and should be tied firmly, but not too tightly; a space should be left between the stitches at one end of the incision for a drainage- tube. Such a suture as this necessarily involves less free drainage than