DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES 289 cutting pliers or a fine saw, and the head is removed after division of the ligaments attaching it to the neighbouring bones. The patient should lie up for about three weeks after the operation. After the operation he must wear properly constructed boots made to a plaster cast of the foot. Should flat foot be present, he should also be fitted with an artificial support to the instep. CONTRACTIONS OF THE FINGERS. The majority of contractions met with in the fingers are acquired. There is a congenital condition in which the little finger is flexed, and is in a position similar to that assumed by a hammer toe. The finger is flexed at the first interphalangeal joint, whilst the second and third phalanges are in the same straight line, or the terminal phalangeal joint may be hyper-extended. TREATMENT.—In slight cases the deformity passes practically unnoticed, and does not call for treatment. When, however, the de- formity is extreme, or when it is necessary to remedy it in order to enable the patient to carry out some particular form of manual labour, and especially when the right hand is affected, the treatment should be con- ducted on lines practically identical with that recommended for hammer toe (see p. 277). In the slighter cases, division of tlic anterior and lateral ligaments may be performed, and the finger afterwards kept on a splint both night and day for four to six weeks ; it may then be left off during the day, and a narrow posterior sphnt applied during the night. The results, however, are generahy very unsatisfactory; the deformity is congenital, and unless treatment be commenced at an early age, the joint surfaces are so altered that restoration of function is rarely perfect, and it is a question whether it is worth the patient's while to go through a prolonged course of treatment by splints when there is a great chance of the deformity recurring. The simplest plan in these cases is to perform an operation similar to that employed for the cure of hammer toe—namely, the removal of the head of the first phalanx. This is easily done through a vertical in- cision upon the inner side of the httle finger exposing the neck of the bone, which is divided by cutting pliers, and the head removed. The wound is stitched up, the finger brought straight and kept upon a splint for six weeks, when passive movement is begun and the splint discarded. DUPUYTREN's CONTRACTION. This affection is primarily due to a contraction of the digital processes of the palmar fascia, the main body of that structure usually being only affected secondarily. In typical cases the affection runs an extremely slow course. It is generally symmetrical and usually first aft'ects the ring I. u