446 ANESTHETICS The position of the patient on commencing the inhalation must vary slightly under different circumstances. Fussy attempts to ' arrange' the patient are to be deprecated, and, generally speaking, the best rule to adopt is, to allow the patient to assume the recumbent posture most convenient and comfortable to himself. In most instances this will be supine, when, especially if there be any tendency to emphysema, the head and shoulders should be well supported with pillows. With the patient sitting up (nitrous oxide or ether), care must be taken that the head is placed in such a position that the tongue does not fall back over the glottis. In some few cases, the patient naturally assumes the lateral position, and in this the anaesthetist should acquiesce. The great object in view is, to make the necessarily disagreeable, preliminary stages, as short, and as little unpleasant as possible. In mouth and throat cases it is sometimes desirable that the body should be raised to an angle of 45°. To this I see no objection, provided that the legs are kept horizontal. The Choice of the Anaesthetic.—To a considerable extent the comfort of both patient and operator, and to some extent the actual safety of the patient, depends, not only upon the skill of the administrator, but also upon the particular anaesthetic used. As far as the choice of the anaesthetic is concerned, the patient, the operator, and the anaesthetist himself are all factors which have to be considered before making the final selection, so that it is almost impossible to do more than lay down very general rules ; each individual case must be decided upon its own merits. In the first place, it is obvious, that rules that are intended for those with whom it is not a matter of absolutely every-day experience to administer an anaesthetic cannot have the same weight when applied to the specialist. An example of this is seen in the use of ether. When plenty of practice in the administration of this drug is obtainable, it may be given in the majority of cases ; but, on the other hand, when only used very occasionally, the results are apt at first to be disappoint- ing, unless the cases are carefully selected. In the second place, some surgeons object to the use of particular anaesthetics in certain operations ; for example, some surgeons consider that chloroform alone should be given in all cases of abdominal section. Under these circumstances, it is probably to the best interests of the patient to adopt the views of the surgeon ; the latter ought not to be allowed to feel, or even to imagine, that his work would have been better done, had a different anaesthetic been used. In the third place, it may be laid down as an axiom, that it is unwise to employ a stronger anaesthetic than is absolutely necessary. The relative strength of the various substances may be assumed to be as follows, commencing with the most feeble, viz. : nitrous oxide, ether, diluted chloroform (as in the A.C.E. and other Mixtures), pure chloro- form and ethyl chloride. Factors determining Choice of Ansesthetie.—In choosing an anesthetic.