DEFORMITIES 4i6 Medicinal Treatment.—In addition to this, the general health must receive attention, as it is extremely common to find some physical ailment in this group of cases. Of these the principal is ansemia; dyspepsia or constipation should receive suitable treatment. The diet should be abundant, light, and digestible ; cod liver oil should be given when the child is particularly weakly. The patient should be in the fresh air as much as possible in the country or at the seaside, and the size and ventilation of the living and sleeping rooms should receive due attention. The most important point, however, is the avoidance of fatigue, which rapidly enfeebles the muscles. The treatment of the curvature itself will require a nice discrimination between rest and exercises, the latter being designed to strengthen the muscles, the former to avoid tiring them. Children at this period of hfe should lead a healthy, active, out- door life. Sitting and standing at lessons must be discouraged in favour of outdoor exercise, which, by improving the general health and the muscular tone, helps to cure the curvature. The child may remain at school provided that she sits upon a proper seat before a well- constructed desk (see p. 414) and has proper rest combined with suitable gymnastic exeixises [vide infra); the advantage of allowing her to remain at school is that she will probably be more amenable to the disciphne required for the proper performance of the exercises. Recumbency.—Rest in the recumbent position must always be insisted upon. The period of rest must be regulated by the particular features of the case, but in nearly all cases at least two hours a day are required. It is well to divide this period up into two equal portions and to order the patient to rest upon a couch for an hour about midday and for another hour in the late afternoon. If the patient will tolerate it, the prone position is better than the supine ; many children, however, strongly object to this, and there is no real objection to employing the other. As a compromise, the child may be placed first in the prone posi- tion until it becomes too irksome, when the supine position may be assumed. The rest may be taken upon an ordinary hard couch ; it is better, however, to have a spinal couch so that the patient lies upon a shghtly inclined plane. Exercises.—Mechanical exercises should always be advised with the view of strengthening the muscles generally and of restoring the tone of those to whose failure the curvature is due. When the curvature is only slight, little is required beyond general muscular exercises which can be carried out at home under the supervision of the parents or a capable nurse. Good types of these will be found on p. 423 (see Series A, B, C, E, F, G, I). They should be practised daily for ten minutes to half an hour at a time in the late forenoon ; immediately after them the child should lie down for the midday rest. Dumb-bell exercises may also be performed on rising in the morning for five to fifteen minutes before dressing.