DEFORMITIES 3o8 when there is much spasm and pain. The accessory methods of treatment are similar to those already described for the milder cases. In the still more advanced cases, when it is impossible to restore the arch of the instep by manipulation, and when the deformity is associated with shortening of the hgamentous structures on the outer side of the foot, as well as spasm of the peroneal muscles in some cases, the tense structures should be stretched fully. The patient should be placed under an ansesthetic, and the I foot manipulated in all directions, so as to break down any adhesions that may be present. The inner side of the foot should then be fixed by pressing it firmly against the surgeon's knee, whilst the front of the foot is grasped with one hand and the heel with the other and the abduction of the front half of the foot is forcibly over- corrected. This often calls for the exercise of considerable force. If mere manipulation of this kind does not enable the surgeon to restore the arch of the instep satisfactorily, still greater force must be employed to stretch or break through the resisting struc- tures by means of a Thomas's wrench (see Fig. Ii6), which is adjusted to the anterior part of the foot, and by means of which the parts may be brought forcibly into position. After this has been done, the foot should be put up in plaster of Paris, with the de- formity over-corrected, for about six weeks. It is well to renew the casing every ten days, as it is apt to get loose, and in these intervals massage and passive movements in all direc- tions should be practised. When the spUnt is left off, tiptoe exercises (see p. 302) should be combined with douching and massage. The arch of the instep should be supported in the first place by Golding Bird's apparatus, for which Whitman's spring may be substituted when the parts become more consolidated. The general treatment is similar to that already described. In the worst cases, in which even forcible manipulation by a Thomas's wrench fails to bring the parts into position, the treatment is most difficult. The bony deformity is extreme, and the pain and disability from which the patient suffers may be so great that some form of operative procedure becomes necessary. Some surgeons advocate 5 Fig. 98.—Golding Bird's Ap- paratus FOR Flat Foot. The sketch shows how the sling is brought through a slit in the boot and fas- tened to an external iron.