174 WOUNDS BURNS AND SCALDS. CAUSBB.—Burns and scalds are caused by contact with solids, liquids, or gases at a high temperature or by exposure to strongly actinic light. X-rays, electrical discharges, or radiant heat. Radiant heat only causes superficial burns, such as blisters and erythematous conditions of the skin. Liquids below 212° F. cause erythema, but at or above that point they produce extensive burns, especially if the liquid has fallen upon the clothes, because then it remains in contact with the skin for some considerable time before the patient can divest himself of his clothing. Caustic liquids cause extensive sloughs. Red-hot or white-hot solids cause deep and limited lesions ; fused metals are extremely rapid in their action and char the parts completely. X-rays, when applied for a prolonged period, produce symptoms . resembling an acute burn, which, however, do not develop for a week or a fortnight after the exposure. The skin then rapidly becomes red, oedematous, blistered, and extremely painful. Under appropriate treatment this subsides and leaves no ill results beyond a temporary or permanent epilation. Repeated small exposures to X-rays produce an entirely different train of phenomena. The skin becomes glossy and atrophic, the nails dry, brittle, and cracked, while teleangiectases and warty growths appear over the affected area ; in severe cases there may be extensive sloughing and necrosis necessitating amputation, and in some cases epithelioma of the skin has been produced. When the patient has been exposed to the passage of a high voltage current, especially if its action has been prolonged, electric burns are produced which are generally complicated by ordinary burns produced by ignition of the clothes. The affected skin is red and oedematous, resembling the con- dition met with in X-ray burns, but the symptoms come on immediately. In electric wire-men curious appearances may be produced by the volatili- sation of fuses, especially when these are of copper, the patient's hand being coated with a thin layer of the metal as if it were part of a bronze statue. With low-voltage currents serious burns may result; for example, if a naked wire be allowed to lie in contact with the skin for a few minutes in the operation of electrolysis a white, apparently dead, area is produced at the point of contact; part of this recovers, but much of it will necrose. Radium gives rise to a burn of varying depth, which is painful and slow to heal. SYMPTOMS.—The local phenomena of burns are usually de- scribed under six headings or degrees as originally proposed by Dupuytren. The first degree is caused by the transient action of a flame, or by a body below 212° F., and is marked by redness of the skin, followed by some sweUing and pain, and subsequently by desquamation. The second degree is caused by a more prolonged action of a flame, by boiling