65 ULCERATION of a battery, are placed on either side of the Hmb, the negative being in direct contact witli the ulcer. A current sufficiently weak for the patient to bear without discomfort must be employed. This method is more cumbrous tlian the other and offers no advantages over it. Perforating ulcers of the foot arc often obstinate under treatment. The limb may be placed at rest on a splint in the elevated position for a long time without the slightest attempt at healing occurring. One reason for this no doubt is the tendency of the epithelium to fill up the cavity and decompose there, or else to spread down the edges of the ulcer. The most satisfactory plan in these cases is to excise the edges and sides of the ulcer, cut away the whole of the callosity around, scrape out the bottom of the ulcer until sound tissue is reached and then disinfect the whole surface with undiluted carbolic acid (see p. 50), and dress it antiseptically. Healing will not begin until the cavity of the ulcer has filled up with granula- tions, and therefore it is well to promote granulation by stuffing the cavity lightly with cyanide gauze which greatly favours this by its irritation. The gauze should be changed daily, but the packing should be left out as soon as granulation has occurred. When the granulations have grown up nearly to the level of the sur- rounding surface, some non-irritating dressing, such as the half-strength boric ointment (see p. 51), may be substituted for it. When the ulcer is extensive, skin- grafting maybe employed with advantage When the ulcer is situated between the great and the next toe it can often be excised conveniently. An incision is made around the opening of the ulcer extending forward into the cleft between the toes (see Fig. 21). A similar incision is then made upon the plantar surface of the foot extending forwards to meet the first incision between the toes. As the incisions are deepened the space between the first and second metatarsals becomes opened up, a free exposure of the walls of the perforating ulcer can be made and any sloughs or dead bone removed. After the operation the parts fall into position and the wound generally heals well by granulation. Diabetic Ulcer—In these cases the local treatment must be carried out on the same principles—namely, disinfection, position, and careful dressing. Of dressings, boric fomentations are the best at first ; but Fig. 21.—E.xcisioN of a Perfora- ting Ulcer of the Foot.—Dorsum of the foot showing the opening of a perforating ulcer between the first and second toes. The broken line shows the incision round the margin of the ulcer continued up into the cleft between the toes.