SYPHILIS 224 general application, as we shall then have a definite means ol testing the disappearance of the disease. The local tpeatment is usually of considerable benefit in secondary syphilis ; the eruptions seem to be favourably affected by the local application of mercury. Eruptions on the face often disappear quickly under the use of emplastrum hydrargyri, the patient meanwhile being treated constitutionally by one of the methods already described. The plaster should be renewed every night; it may be employed usefully also for skin eruptions elsewhere. Acid nitrate of mercury may also be employed. This preparation, however, is a powerful caustic and must be applied with care, but it is a valuable preparation for mucous patches on the throat and for condylo- mata, especially when they are ulcerating and spreading ; it should be painted on with a glass brush two or three times a week. Condylomata and mucous patches also disappear rapidly when local treatment is com- bined with the internal administration of mercury. They should be washed night and morning, dried, and dusted over with a powder consist- ing of one part of calomel and three parts of starch. Lotio nigra makes a valuable gargle in cases of syphilis of the mouth and throat. The General Treatment of Tertiary Syphilis.^—During this stage the lesions will be removed much more rapidly by means of iodide of potassium than by mercury. We usually begin with fifteen grains of the iodide of potassium three times a day, and if this does not suffice to influence the lesions rapidly, the dose may be increased up to thirty or forty grains. The iodide should be taken from half an hour to an hour after meals, and it is well to give it with tincture of orange peel or syrup of cinchona in order to avoid griping. Some patients cannot take iodide of potassium ; and if it be administered they suffer severely from coryza, pustular eruptions on the skin and pains in the bones. Under these circumstances the sodium or strontium salt may be substituted for that of potassium, but if these cannot be borne, resort must be had to mercurial inunction or intra-muscular injections. It is a curious fact that patients suffer less from the physiological action of iodide of potassium in large than in small doses, and, before giving up the drug entirely, one or two large doses at any rate should be tried. It must be remembered that iodide of potassium only causes the disappearance of the syphilitic lesions and that it has no permanent ciurative effect. It is well, therefore, to give the patient a mercurial course at the same time that he is being treated with the iodide of potassium, especially in syphilis of important organs, such as the brain, the liver, etc. After the gums have become affected the mercury may be given up for a short time and then continued in smaller doses just as in secondary syphihs (see p. 219). The Local Treatment.—The local application of mercury, especially in the form of emplastrum hydrargyri, is often beneficial in the tertiary