TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS 157 before, and for a day or two afterwards there may be slight rises of temperature. Treatment of Wounds in which the Edges are not brought together.—It is important that organisms should be excluded from these wounds also, and if this be successfully accomplished, and the part kept absolutely at rest and not irritated by the dressings, the space between the edges fills up with blood, and healing by blood-clot will occur. To obtain this result, similar methods and dressings should be employed to those used when the edges have been brought together, but, in order to protect the blood-clot from the irritation of the dressings, a piece of Lister's oiled silk protective or thin sterilised rubber or tinfoil, somewhat larger than the wound, should be interposed ; outside this a large gauze and wool dressing is applied. When the wound is large, healing by blood-clot generally occurs to a considerable extent, and then a small part in the centre undergoes a certain amount of granulation before complete cicatrisation takes place. Thiersch's Skin-grafting' in Fresh Wounds.—Since healing by blood- clot is a slow process, and is alwaj's open to the risk of accidental con- tamination of the wound, Thiersch's skin-grafting is often employed, as it is a quicker method of obtaining healing. If it be carried out im- mediately at the end of the operation in which the wound has been made, a good result will be obtained in most cases, and healing will occur almost as rapidly as in union by first intention, while the contraction which follows granulation will be avoided almost entirely. The process is identical with that described on p. 53, except that the gr-afts are applied direct to the fresh surface of the wound, which does not require to be scraped. When the operation has been very extensive, and the patient is very collapsed, it may be advisable to defer the skin-grafting for a short time ; in these cases the blood-clot is removed from the surface of the wound after about ten days, and, when the oozing has been arrested, the grafts are applied in the usual manner. It might be supposed that grafts would not adhere well to non-granulating tissues, but they do; and immediate skin-grafting is a very valuable help in obtaining a good result where so much skin has to be removed that a large open wound would otherwise be left. Plastic Operations.—Where the cutaneous loss is not excessive, and the skin in the neighbourhood is fairly lax, the interval between the edges of the wound may be obliterated by means of a plastic operation, which is an operation performed with the view of covering in some congenital or acquired defect in the skin or mucous membrane. Here we shall only deal with the covering-in of defects left after an operation in which the edges of the wound cannot be brought together. The plastic operations in connection with other affections will be dealt with in connection with those affections. In such a simple form of defect as an oval wound, the steps necessary