456 ANAESTHETICS The chief dangers in connection with the administration of ether are of an asphyxial type. The muco-sahvary secretions may be so excessive that the lungs may become 'water-logged,' the heart's action seriously embarrassed, and the venous system engorged. The careful administrator ought never to allow a patient to get into this serious condition ; the free admission of air, or if this fails, the substitution of another anaesthetic, should not be delayed when once the tendency is apparent. The accumu- lation of mucus may often be checked at the outset, by permitting the patient to come round just sufficiently to allow of his swallowing, or even, when it is permissible, vomiting. If, however, the condition of ' water- logging ' has arisen, the ansesthetic must be withheld, the mouth opened, the tongue pulled forward, the mucus sponged out from the throat, vomiting encouraged, and, finally, the patient must be turned on his right side ; it is in such cases as these, that the administration of oxygen is especially called for. In the earlier stages of ether narcosis, primary cardiac syncope seldom, if ever, occurs as a direct result of the inhalation, although, of course, the mere dread of the operation may have this effect; on the other hand, cases are on record in which death, occurring at a later period, appears to have been due to over-stimulation of the heart, and, perhaps, of the respiratory centre. If, then, while the patient is well under, the breathing becomes more rapid and shallower, the inhalation should be suspended for a short time until the normal condition is restored. With the Clover's inhaler, the time occupied in producing anaes- thesia must, of course, vary very considerably; from four to six minutes may be taken as a good working average. From a calculation based upon 544 cases, in which both the duration of the operation, and the quantity of ether used was noted, one ounce of ether was estimated to last, on an average, I0"4 minutes.1 After-efTeets.—If the patient has not been more than about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes under the anaesthetic, he passes, on discon- tinuing the inhalation, through the stages already referred to (see p. 454), but in reverse order, viz., comparatively light anaesthesia, excitement, gradually returning consciousness. In any event, one of the first after- effects is usually the vo)niiing of mucus, often frothy and ropy, and fre- quently bile-stained. With ether, this is apt to be very severe during the first hour or two, but as the patient is but partly conscious, it is really less distressing to him than at first sight appears. As soon as he can do so, the patient should be encouraged to wash out his mouth with warm water, and sips of hot water should be swallowed. In some cases, especially if there has been little or no sickness, more or less violent delirium is observed. The frequency with which serious fulmonary troubles occur after the use of ether has probably been greatly exaggerated. ' King's College Hospilal Reports, vols, vi and vii.