TUMOURS COMPOSED OF MORE COMPLEX TISSUES 259 and therefore the apphcation is repeated as soon as the. hardness has subsided sufficiently to show what portion requires further treatment ; at first this may be done at intervals of three weeks. After three or four sittings, however, the greater part of the nfevus will have become firm, and then longer intervals must be allowed, because it is impossible to judge how much remains to be done until the hardness has almost disappeared. Electrolysis may be conveniently coml)ined with temporary strangula- tion of the blood-vessels of the part, especially in naevus of the lip. After the patient has been anaesthetised the special forceps shown in Fig. 62 are applied to the lip, as shown in Fig. 63, so as to obstruct circulation through the nasvus completely. The blades of the forceps should be covered with india-rubber, not only because this renders them less likely to injure the tissues, but because there is a risk of a serious burn followed Fig. 62.—Compression Forceps for Use in Electrolysis of N/evus of the Lip. by troublesome sloughing if the forceps come into contact with either of the connecting wires. After the forceps have been applied, the nsevus is electrolysed in the ordinary manner with several platinum needles, which may be connected to one or both poles of the battery. After five to ten minutes the circuit is broken, but the forceps are left on for another five or ten minutes. By this means the coagulum around the electrodes spreads throughout the vascular channels near it, and is not washed away into the general circulation. A greater effect can thus be got than by simple electrolysis ; weaker currents can be employed, with a correspondingly smaller risk of sloughing. For a very small nsevus it is sometimes possible to use an ordinary pair of tongue forceps or a couple of intestinal clamps, but the blades must always be insulated with india-rubber. In other situations the same principle may be employed. In the case of a naevus situated over a bone—for example, on the forehead —a firm india-rubber ring held securely in position by tapes tied at the back of the neck answers the purpose very well. Caustics.—Besides the extensive and important naevi, there are small superficial capillary stains, of small size and insignificant proportions.