TUMOURS 242 the vessels when these are small and the cells are large or massed together in groups ; or they are carried on to and caught by the nearest lymphatic glands, where they give rise to secondary tumours. From the nearest lymphatic glands they spread to others in the neighbourhood, and thus fresh groups of glands are affected. Ultimately they get into the blood-vessels, either indirectly through the thoracic duct, or directly by penetrating the walls of the veins. They are thus finally deposited in various organs in distant parts of the body. Hence, in carcinomatous tumours, we have a primary tumour, a secondary glandular infection, and internal or metastatic deposits. Furthermore, certain special deg-enerations occur in some forms, such as colloid degeneration in carcinoma of the stomach and intestine, and a form of degeneration accompanied by the deposit of pigment which is generally spoken of as melanotic cancer. Treatment.—If carcinomatous disease is to be rooted out, its mode of spread by means of the lymphatic vessels must be borne in mind, and as this occurs at an early stage, and as the cells are microscopic, a very wide area must be removed by the knife. The organ from which the original growth springs should, if practicable, be excised, because its lymphatic vessels generally communicate freely with each other and there are probably secondary deposits in various parts of it already. In addition, the nearest chain of lymphatic glands must also be removed, even though the glands may not be noticeably enlarged. It is sometimes difficult to decide whether the lymphatic tract inter- vening between the primary growth and the glands should also be removed. That this should be done in certain cases—as for example, in breast cancer—■ is evident from microscopical researches, which have shown that the lymphatic vessels passing from the breast to the axillary glands are themselves affected in the great majority of advanced cases. On the other hand, there are certain forms of carcinoma, especially of the squamous epithelial type, in which the intervening lymphatics do not seem to be readily infected. In epithelioma of the lip, for instance, a secondary tumour rarely arises in the course of the lymphatic vessels, although the glands of the neck may be enlarged. In epithelioma of the extremities also, the lymphatic vessels are not usually affected, although the glands become involved comparatively early. Hence, in these cases, it suffices in the first instance to remove the primary growth and the nearest lymphatic glands, and then to watch whether recurrence takes place in the intervening tissues. In breast cancer, on the other hand, it is wiser to take away not only the breast and the axillary glands, but all the intervening fat and fascia with the lymphatic vessels running in them, if we wish to make sure of avoiding recurrence ; this also applies to cancer in most other situations. Details of the various operations are given in connection with the affections of the individual parts and organs.