MODES OF HEALING the staphylococci are specially prone to cause the circumscribed abscesses, whereas the streptococci spread along the lymphatics, causing diffuse cellulitis, or gain access to the blood-stream and set up pyaemia. HEALING BY BLOOD-CLOT. When the edges of the wound have not been got into accurate apposition, the space between the cut surfaces becomes filled with coagu- lated blood, whilst the surfaces themselves are covered with lymph. When no further causes of inflammation come into play, this blood-clot may remain and form a mould in which the young cells develop and form fibrous tissue and fresh blood-vessels. ^Vhen nearly the entire blood-clot has become organised, epithelial cells begin to spread over this imperfect tissue from the sides. In small wounds a thin layer of the top of the blood-clot can often be peeled off at the end of about fourteen days, leaving an epithelium-covered surface beneath. This process may be termed healing by blood-clot; and, although it is only visible when the edges of the wound do not come together, it occurs to some extent in almost all wounds of any depth, because the deeper parts of a woimd are seldom in such accurate contact that only a thin layer of lymph divides them; when there is any appreciable separation, blood-clot forms between the raw surfaces and undergoes organisation as described above. Hence, even in wounds that apparently heal by first intention, that process only takes place as a rule towards the surface, while the deeper parts heal by blood-clot. HEALING UNDER A SCAB. The process of healing by scabbing is practically the same as healing by a thin layer of blood-clot. The superficial layer of lymph and blood dries up and forms a scab, which protects the surface of the wound from irritation, and organisation goes on in the thin layer of lymph beneath, while epithelial cells spread in beneath the scab. HEALING BY GRANULATION. When a wound becomes irritated, or when sepsis is present, healing takes place by granulation. When this happens, the edges of the wound have either not been brought together, or, if they have, union by first intention has failed, owing usually to the occurrence of sepsis. As in both the preceding cases, effusion of lymph occurs as the first change; but the process of inflammation does not stop there. Since the causes of irritation continue to act, the inflammation goes on to the second stage—namely, granulation—so that all the structures exposed in the wound become covered with granulation-tissue. This soon becomes arranged in the form of little rosy buds, termed granulations, which on microscopical examination are seen to be composed of actively growing cells with numerous young blood-vessels. The granulations ultimately fill I. K