WOUNDS 170 be purified. The particular method employed for purification wiU depend to a considerable extent on the cause producing the wound. When the skin is burst rather than actually torn or cut by an instrument, and the case is seen immediately after the receipt of the wound, the cliances are that septic organisms have not penetrated deeply. On the other hand, when the patient has faUen on stones or has been run over by a cart, dirt containing septic organisms has probably been ground into the tissues. In the milder cases, it is sufficient to wash out the wound with I in 20 carbolic lotion, or, perhaps better, with strong mixture (see p. 50), and to scrub the skin with a nail-brush and strong mixture. When dirt is evidently ground into the tissues, and especially when bone is injured, it is best to clip away any dirty tissues and tags of skin and muscle, and then to wash out the wound with strong mixture, and finally to sponge it over with undiluted carbolic acid. The patient should be under a general anaesthetic while the wound is being cleansed in these bad cases. No stitches should be employed; the wound should be left freely open and a cyanide gauze and saHcylic wool dressing should be applied ; should the wound prove aseptic, a piece of sterilised protective, sheet rubber or tinfoil should be applied to its surface after a day or two, in order to prevent the irritation that this dressing would otherwise cause. Skin-grafting may be usefully employed (see p. 54) if a considerable raw granulating surface be left. Should suppuration occur in these contused wounds, with much local inflammation and a tendency to sloughing, irrigation (see p. 32) is the best treatment ; it should be discontinued, however, when the wound becomes covered with granulations, and either the gauze dressing or, still better, one of the various antiseptic ointments employed ; the full- strength boric ointment should be used until it is evident that healing has begun at the edge, and then half-strength ointment substituted for it, so as not to interfere with the growth of the young epithelium. LACERATED WOUNDS. In lacerated wounds proper—namely, those caused by tearing— he bruising of the deeper tissues is not nearly so marked as in wounds inflicted by a direct blow with a blunt instrument. The wound is usually comparatively superficial except when a limb is torn off. The soft parts are much torn, and there are shreds of muscle and fascia which are more or less completely deprived of blood-supply and will slough should the wound become septic ; in fact, they will probably do so in any case. The wound is usually much soiled with dirt or grease, especially in machinery accidents. These wounds are inflicted by a blunt instrument, which tears the tissues rather than contuses them ; the most typical example of this is in machinery accidents, where a toothed instrument catches the skin and tears it off for a considerable distance. Lacerated wounds are