ADMINISTRATION OF CHLOROFORM 461 phenomena alone as indications of the exact state of the patient. Occa- sionally during induction, and especially in children, the patient passes imperceptibly into a curious and anomalous condition of anaesthetically induced sleep, or false ancesthesia ; the pupils are sharply contracted, the limbs are quite flaccid, the superhcial reflexes abolished, and it is not until the deeper reflexes are excited, as by the skin incision, that we are able to recognise the fact that the state is in reality one of light an?esthesia. The ideal condition of a patient under chloroform should be some- what as follows, viz. : colour good, or slightly pallid ; respirations regular, fairly deep, slightly accelerated, quiet, or with a slight, soft snore ; eyeballs fixed or rotating very slowly from side to side, pupils moderately contracted and sluggishly sensitive, corneal conjunctivae in- sensitive. The greatest variations from this standard will be found in the very young and the very old—in old people the respirations and Fig. 20fi.—Junker's Inhaler. pulse rate may both be very much below the average. It is impossible, however, to refer in detail to all the variations which may be observed. Very occasionally in quite young infants, an undue strength of vapour will give rise to some slight laryngeal spasm. Blueness of the lips, cheeks, ears, etc., is quite unwarranted, as it indicates that the vapour is in far too great a strength, and air must at once be supplied ; some patients become very pale under any anaesthetic which contains chloroform, and, if this pallor is gradually displaced by an ashy-grey hue, it is an indication that the circulation is failing, and the anaesthetic must be at once withdrawn, and, if need be, more energetic measures taken (see p. 473). Tlie respirations must be watched with the greatest possible vigilance, and variations in the rapidity and depth should be detected early. I would lay particular stress upon the importance of maintaining the e^tpiratory phase of the respiratory cycle. Elimination of the vapour is more difficult to secure than inhalation. Quick, shallow breathing may end in total cessation of respiration, and is an indication for diminishing the strength oi the vapour, or even withdrawing it for