34 INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS at the bedside. A necessary precaution in employing irrigation is to prevent the neighbourhood of the affected part becoming sodden with water, and in order to avoid this, the skin around should be smeared with sterilised grease or oil. Irrigation should be continued until the inflammation has ceased to be acute, when some simple dressing should take its place; otherwise the granulations are likely to become oedematous, and a weak or oedema- tous ulcer is formed which will not heal properly. An excellent dressing at this stage is eucalyptus or weak boric ointment (half the strength of the pharmacopoeial ointment) spread on butter-cloth, with a layer of boric lint applied outside. The protective and boric lint dressing described in the treatment of ulcers is also good (see p. 51). Fig. II.—Water-bath for Leg. The sloping floor of the hath is meant for the leg to rest upon : it is better, however, to have holes bored through the sides of the bath near the top, to which can be fastened slings of muslin in which the limb rests. The bath, when in use, is covered over with a thick blanket to maintain its temperature. Another good method of treatment is the water-haih, although it is hardly so satisfactory as irrigation. In irrigation, the secretions being washed away as rapidly as they form, no nidus remains in which micro- organisms can grow ; in the water-bath, the discharges are not washed away so rapidly, but they are diluted, and at the same time the bath supplies warmth and moisture. If an antiseptic, such as sanitas, per- manganate of potash, boric acid, or weak iodine, be added to the fluid, the growth of the organisms is inhibited to some extent. The limb is suspended, by means of a large gauze or muslin sling, in a covered bath (see Fig. 11), filled with water at a temperature of about 100° F. containing in solution one of the antiseptics mentioned above. The bath should be furnished with a tap at its lowest point, and a gentle stream of water should flow through it by means of a syphon apparatus from a reservoir above the level of the limb ; the water in this reservoir should be kept at 110° F. as a good deal of heat is lost as the fluid runs through the tube. The skin around the wound should be rubbed