EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD 510 body, etc.) can enter into combination with the corpuscles at a low temperature, and corpuscles thus treated are spoken of as ' sensitised.' In appearance they are unaltered, and when fresh normal serum is added nothing happens until the mixture is raised to a point near the temperature of the body, when solution occurs. Thus we picture the process of haemolysis thus : the antibody unites to the corpuscles, but without injuring them. If now complement be added it can unite either with the antibody or with the sensitised corpuscle (for this point is not yet settled), yet still without the occurrence of solution unless the mixture be near the body-temperature, when the complement exerts its enzyme- like action and solution occurs. All cells (with perhaps a few exceptions) appear able to give rise to similar antibodies, amongst others, the bacteria. Thus, the experiments described above could be carried out equally well, using cholera vibrios instead of sheep's corpuscles. The serum of an animal which has been immunised to this organism, contains an antibody which will sensitise it to the action of the complement contained in the normal serum. These antibodies are more or less specific, i.e. that for sheep's corpuscles will have no action on cholera vibrios and vice versa. The discovery made by Bordet and Gengou, and since shown to be of universal validity, was that when an antibody and its antigen unite all the complement is removed from the serum. For example, if we mix together cholera vibrios (antigen), heated serum from a rabbit which has been immunised to cholera (antibody), and fresh rabbit or guinea-pig serum (complement) and incubate them, all the complement will be removed, and this is proved by adding sheep's corpuscles sensitised by heated serum from an immunised rabbit. No solution occurs, showing that the fluid contains no complement. This gives us a most dehcate and sensitive test for the presence of an antigen or of an antibody. It was applied by Wassermann to the diagnosis of syphilis. The first difficulty was to obtain the antigen, pure cultures of the spirochsete, being, of course, unobtainable. To overcome this, he made use of an extract (in normal saline solution) of the liver of a still-born syphilitic foetus found to be rich in spirochsetes. This we shall call the ' extract' or ' antigen.' The patient's blood is now to be tested for an antibody to the spirochaete, and as a preliminary, it is heated to 55° C. to destroy its complement (this step is not absolutely necessary). A mixture is now prepared of (i) extract or antigen, (2) the heated serum to be tested, and (3) guinea-pig's serum, quite fresh and rich in comple- ment. The three are heated together for an hour in the incubator, so as to allow the union of the three substances to take place, supposing, of course, that the syphihtic antibody is present. Then a mixture of (4) sheep's corpuscles and (5) heated serum from a rabbit immunised to sheep's corpuscles is added, and the mixture again incubated for two hours and allowed to stand in the cold for twelve hours. A positive