364 DEFORMITIES old ; then suckle every 3 hours by day and once only by night. Too frequent suckling makes the milk poor and does not satisfy the baby. The mother's nipples should be bathed with warm water both before and after suckling. Also wash the inside of the child's mouth with a small piece of clean linen and warm water after taking the breast. This will prevent ' Thrush.' Begin to wean at 8 months, and wean completely at 9 months. Between the eighth and ninth months let the child have three times a day a mixture of two parts of cows' milk and one part of barley water, sweetened with one lump of sugar or one-third of a teaspoonful of malt extract to each bottle. The cows' milk should be just brought to the boil. The barley water is made as follows : Wash one tablespoonful of pearl barley and put it in a saucepan with one pint of cold water. Let it come to the boil, and then simmer beside the fire for half-an-hour. Strain and use as required. Should be prepared twice daily. II. If the Mother has only a little Milk, the child should still have it: give also one part cows' milk and two parts barley water, made and sweetened as above. There is no harm in mixing the milks. It is better to get ordinary dairy milk than milk from one cow. Should diarrhoea or vomiting come on, give equal parts of milk, lime water, and barley water. III. If for any reason the Breast eannot be given, feed as follows: Up to 3 months.—One part of cows' milk and two parts of barley water—pre- pared and sweetened as above—every 2 hours by day and twice by night. Give one-sixth of a pint of the mixture at each feed, and add a little more milk each week until—• Between 3 and 6 months.—Equal parts of cows' milk and thin barley water may be given, li to 2 pints a day. One-third of a teaspoonful of fresh butter, or a teaspoonful of cream may be given twice daily in the milk. Feed every 3 hours by day, and once during the night. Between 6 and 9 months.—Two parts of cows' milk to one part of barley water. Then add gradually more milk and less barley water until at 9 months the child is taking plain milk. On no account give any infants' food, condensed milk, bread, biscuits, or tops and bottoms until the child is 9 months old—except by doctor's orders. If the cows' milk does not seem to agree, consult a doctor—not the chemist. Never give babies at any age sweets, pastry, fruits, cheese, salt meat, salt or fried fish, tea, wine, beer, or spirits. Between 9 and 12 months.—Besides i pint or pints of cows' milk, the child may be given, not oftener than twice in the day, any plain milk pudding, or porridge made with milk, or bread and milk made as follows : Put a slice of stale bread without crust to soak in a basin of cold water for 2 hours ; then pour off the water, beat up the bread, and pour over it a quarter of a pint of boiling milk ; sweeten with loaf sugar. This should be freshly made for each meal. Between 12 and 18 months.—Add to the above, potato and gravy, or half an egg once in a day. After 15 months, feed every 4 hours by day and not at all during the night. After 18 months.—Finely minced or shredded mutton and fresh fish may be added to the above, but cows' milk should still be the principal food. Feed only at meal times, never between meals, ' Just to keep the baby quiet.' Babies often cry not because they are hungry, but because they are thirsty. A little pure water or barley water, flavoured with orange juice, will satisfy them. The bottle should have a nipple, but no tube. Scald it out both before and after use, and cleanse with a brush.