DEFORMITIES 404 assumed by some bicyclists. At a more advanced age the condition may result from senile degeneration ; the spinal muscles lose their tone, and the vertebral column becomes bowed forward in consequence. This of course is part of general debihty, and calls for no special treatment. Kyphosis may complicate general diseases such as osteo-arthritis and osteo-malacia. It is also common in osteitis deformans, and is met with in some forms of paralysis, in which it is due to atrophy of the erectors of the spine. TREATMENT.—In infants it is of the first importance that the child should always be carried in the horizontal position, and never be sat up in the nurse's arms. The upright position favours the bending forward of the head, which, in a weakly subject, leads to bowing of the spine and this condition of kyphosis. With an intelligent nurse it is easy to have this order properly carried out, and no apparatus is necessary. In the case of hospital patients, however, it is well to insist that the child shall be carried about on some form of tray, upon which it lies always in a hori- zontal position. Wickerwork trays, appropriately padded, can be bought, and are very suitable and inexpensive. A basket-lid or an ironing-board padded with a folded blanket answers the purpose quite well. When the child approaches the end of its first year, and begins to sit up and crawl about, it is not so easy to keep him in the horizontal position as when he is quite young ; for these children the horizontal position must be insisted upon as much as possible, but in addition it is well to apply some light spinal support which will prevent bending of the vertebral column. We are in the habit of moulding a sheet of guttapercha, leather, or poroplastic felt over the sides and back of the thorax, and fixing it above and below by bands of webbing passing across the front of the shoulders and the upper parts of the thighs, steadying the whole by a firm bandage. This provides a light but stiff support which counteracts any tendency of the spine to assume the bent position, and the child may be allowed to sit up and crawl about with comparative freedom wearing this apparatus. The general health must receive careful attention. If rickets be present, the measures appropriate for that affection (see Vol. II.) must be adopted. Cod hver oil and iron are of benefit, as is massage of the back muscles night and morning for ten minutes at a time. The- kyphosis of adult life resulting from faulty positions must be treated by attention to posture and, if necessary, giving up the particular occupation that has brought about the curvature. In addition, it is well to order massage and gymnastic exercises designed to extend the spine and strengthen the erector muscles. These are described on p. 423. The treatment of the kyphosis occurring in the course of diseases such as osteo-arthritis, osteo-malacia, and osteitis deformans must be that of the primary disease of which the spinal deformity is a mere episode, which does not, as a rule, gives rise to any discomfort.