326 DEFORMITIES forcibly dorsi-flexed two or three times, so as to stretch or tear through any other tight bands. It is rarely that any accidents happen during the performance of this small operation. There may be bleeding from division of the short saphena vein, but this soon stops with light pressure. Puncture of the posterior tibial artery is extremely rare ; should it occur, the best plan is to enlarge the skin incision, and expose and tie the divided ends. Some surgeons, however, apply firm pressure by means of a pad over the bleeding vessel in the first instance, and then adopt appropriate treat- ment later should a false aneurysm form. At the same time one need not cut down, merely because arterial blood spouts from the wound when the foot is moved ; this mav come from some small vessel, and will be arrested by the application of a pad and bandage. Should the wound in the skin be made too large by an accidental slip of the knife, its edges should be brought together with a stitch or two. The disadvantage of a large skin incision nowadays is not the risk of sepsis, but the possi- bility of adhesion of the scar to the new material thrown out between the ends of the tendon. After-treatment.—The next point that arises is whether the foot should be put up in the over-corrected position at once or whether it should be left for a few days in its faulty position until a certain amount of reparative material has been thrown out between the divided ends of the tendon. The answer to this question depends upon the degree of deformity present. In the milder cases, in which the gap left after tenotomy is less than two inches, the foot may be put up at once at right angles upon a suitable splint, such as the one already described (see Fig. lOo). A small pad of gauze is fixed over the puncture with collodion, and care must be taken that the bandage fastening the limb to the splint does not press upon the gap between the divided ends, lest the formation of plastic material between the ends be interfered with. From the second day onwards the deformity is gradually over-corrected by slowly increasing the dorsal flexion of the foot until, in about a week, its extreme limit is reached. The foot is then fixed in plaster of Paris in this over-corrected position for another fortnight. In three weeks from the operation the splint or plaster of Paris casing should be abandoned, and the limb massaged, while the patient is en- couraged to carry out exercises designed to develop the muscles that are at fault. It is of special value to make the patient perform active move- ments against resistance which is gradually increased as the muscular power improves. By this time the uniting material will be sufficiently firm to connect the ends of the tendons; it is, however, not yet strong, but the patient may be allowed to walk about, provided that he walks on the flat of the foot and does not put much strain upon the tendon.