GANGRENE 69 that has been directly subjected to an injury, as, for instance, when a cart-wheel passes over the foot and the foot dies. In indirect gangrene the gangrene occurs at some distance from the cause, as, for instance, when the foot becomes gangrenous after ligature of the femoral artery. Specific gangrene is the variety due to specilic organisms, for example, phagedena, acute traumatic gangrene, and the like. [ DIRECT GANGRENE. Direct Gangrene may be due (i) to crushing of the part, (2) to pres- sure, (3) to acute inflammation, and (4) to the action of heat, cold, or caustics. Gangrene due to Crushing.—The most common cause of direct gangrene is severe contusion or crushing, as, for example, when a limb has been run over. In some cases the parts which are directly subjected to injury may lose their vitality at once ; in other cases, where septic inflammation occurs subsequently, tissues may die which were not killed outriglit by the injury itself. Further, in these cases there may be indirect as well as direct gangrene ; for example, when the wheel of a heavy cart passes over the leg it may rupture the blood-vessels going to the foot, and so lead to gangrene of the toes and the foot as well as of the tissues at the site of the injury. This form of gangrene is moist, and the constitutional symptoms and local appearances depend upon whether or not it has been possible to render the part aseptic immediately after the injury. Treatment.—In a crush affecting the e.xtremities, it is not always easy to say at lirst whether the injured part will die or not ; hence, when the state of the patient will permit, or when there is a doubt as to the extent of recovery, it is well to wait for a short time before amputating. Meanwhile, however, measures must be taken to prevent or diminish as far as possible the putrefaction of any portion that may die. The parts should therefore be disinfected thoroughly (see p. 100), and a dressing applied and left on for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, till it is seen how much tissue is going to die. An additional advantage of delay is that the patient may recover from the shock of the accident before he is subjected to the shock of the amputation ; one of the great dangers of primary amputation is the addition of the shock of the operation to that caused by the injury. The question of amputation depends upon the amount of injury done. In some cases there is no object in waiting, because it can be seen at once that the injury is irreparable. For example, when not only the skin but also the bones, vessels, and nerves are destroyed, there can be no question as to the advisability of amputation. On the other hand, if the blood-vessels and nerves be intact, it may still be possible to save the limb, even though the bones be extensively crushed, and a large area of skin destroyed, provided always that the wound be rendered