349 TALIPES EQUINO-VARUS foot, but made to extend about three inches beyond the toes (see Fig. 115). To this a long piece of strapping is attached in a manner similar to that described for talipes equinus ; viz., the strapping begins on the upper surface of the splint in front, runs backwards round its posterior edge, then forwards along its under surface and around the anterior border. From this point the strapping must be long enough to reach rather more than half-way up the thigh. The strapping overcomes the equinus deformity, but a second piece should be added to the splint so as to pro- duce eversion of the foot. This is attached to its outer border, immedi- ately opposite the instep, carried transversely over the upper surface of the splint, around the inner border, then across the under surface to the outer border, and thence up to the middle of the thigh. The splint, padded with boric lint, is then applied to the sole, and a broad piece of Fig. 115.—Sayre's Apparatus for Hquino-Varus. This is identical with that shown in Fig. 104, except that here there is the addition of the long outside strip of strapping designed to produce a certain amount of eversion of the foot. strapping is carried sandal-wise around its posterior end and over the instep to prevent it slipping backwards, whilst the rest of the foot is fixed on the splint with a bandage. The foot can be flexed and everted by traction upon the free ends of the two pieces of strapping, which are pulled taut on the front and outer sides of the thigh respectively, and a bandage is applied around the limb outside them. The redundant ends of the strapping are tmned down over the upper edge of the bandage, and covered in by a few turns carried from above downwards, Thus the strapping and the bandage are firmly fixed to the thigh, and the foot is retained in the corrected position. A plaster of Paris bandage is then applied to the foot and leg, and the strapping may be cut tluough above and below the casing when this has properly set ; the foot is thus kept in position whilst the plaster of l^aris is applied, without the necessity of holding it by the hand. Each time the plaster casing is renewed the leg should be rubbed and the foot manipulated (see p. 347). When the child is old enough to walk, it is better to substitute some form of apparatus lor the plaster of Paris, and for poor patients the most