DEFORMITIES 276 causes flexion of the second phalanx of the second toe, and the typical deformity just mentioned. The condition is sometimes very troublesome on account of the de- velopment of corns upon the points exposed to pressure ; when there Fig. 74.—Hammer Toe. The figure illustrates the two varieties of the affection. On the left-hand side is the Z-shaped deformity, in which there is, besides hyper- extension at the metatarso-phalangeal joint, flexion at the first and hyper-extension at the second interphalangeal articulation. In the other figure the deformity is similar, except that the terminal phalanx, instead of being hyper-extended upon the second, is in the same straight hne with it. are no corns it gives rise to no trouble whatever. There is generally a large and tender corn over the first interphalangeal joint where it rubs against the boot, and also on the free end of the toe, especially when the terminal phalanx looks straight downwards ; the corn is then often situated just behind the free edge of the nail, which is somewhat recurved, and it causes intense pain when the patient walks. Corns also form on the inner aspect of the toe where the great toe comes into contact with it. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—The ligaments of the first interphalangeal joint, in particular the lateral and the plantar or glenoid ligaments, are markedly shortened when the deformity is once estabUshed. Fig. 75.—Diagram to show how forcible straightening of a Hammer Toe MAY result in DISLOCATION. The lateral ligaments, which are shown in the figure, are attached on each bone at a point somewhat below the centre of the lateral aspect. Any attempt at forcible straiglitening while the ligaments are intact must therefore either fail or result in dislocation of the base of the second phalanx beneath the head of the first, as shown in the right-hand figure. This is accompanied by secondary contraction of the flexors of the toes (which, however, does not occur until a late period) and by alterations in the articular surfaces. In bad cases the second phalanx is actually drawn up under the first, leaving the articular surface of the latter