40 INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS defective circulation of blood in the part. For example, if an inflamed limb hangs down, the return of the venous blood is impeded ; consequently, less arterial blood flows to the part, and its nutrition is therefore interfered with ; this is the explanation of the fact that the great majority of the non-infective ulcers affect the lower extremities. In addition to im- peding the circulation of the blood, the dependent position of the leg acts also by producing a condition of lymph-stasis. Were the arterial and venous channels composed of a rigid and unyielding material, the dynamics of the circulation would be unaffected by posture, but this is far from being the case. The vessels of the inflamed part are already leaky, and as the increased pressure in the arterioles due to the weight of the column of blood in the arteries raises the capillary pressure upon the arterial side, and as the corresponding column of blood in the veins increases the intra-capiUary pressure upon the venous side, an increased exudation of lymph occurs through the endothelial waUs. The l3Tnphatics, like the other vessels, are acting at a mechanical disadvantage and hence the dependent limb becomes swollen, and the vitality of its tissues is markedly lessened, since they are suppUed with stagnant lymph. A granulating wound on the leg is very apt to become the subject of an ulcerative process if the patient continue to stand about much, or to walk on the leg, or even to hang it down. Perhaps one of the most frequent causes of ulceration is the presence of varicose veins, especially when the veins affected are the small tributaries in the skin. This con- dition presents a very marked obstacle to the venous return; conse- quently there is stagnation of blood and the nutrition of the part is impaired. Again, ulceration may result from imperfect blood-supply apart from any venous obstruction, as is seen in the cases in which there is atheroma of the arteries, and if the dependent position be habitually assumed in the presence of this disease, the ulcerative process may go on rapidly. This imperfect blood-supply may also be brought about by the pressure of the inflammatory exudation in the tissues around the ulcer interfering mechanically with the circulation of blood in the part. This is frequently the case when the sore is situated over loose connective tissue, the meshes of which become distended with lymph and which is, moreover, sparsely supplied with blood-vessels. In addition to these causes depending upon defective circulation of blood, ulceration is greatly favoured by a feeble condition of the tissues, such as occurs in old age. A wound on the leg in a young person, even though he be the subject of varicose vems and stiU continue to walk about, is not nearly so likely to lead to an ulcer as is a similar injury in an old person ; to a great extent this is due to the greater vitahty and recuperative power of the tissues in the young. At the same time, in old persons there is generally a diminution in the arterial supply, and thus there is a combination of at least two of the causes of ulceration. A similar result is brought about by anything which temporarily enfeebles