SCOLIOSIS 421 A useful adjunct to this treatment is to have the child taiight singing, which not only develops various muscles of the chest and back, but insures proper expansion of the lungs, tends to obliterate stooping habits, and improves nutrition generally. Adenoids or enlarged tonsils, if present, should receive appropriate treatment. Mechanical supports are never neces- sary in this group of cases ; indeed, care should be taken to see that the patient does not wear stiff stays ; the utmost that should be allowed are stays of stout jean without bones. {/3) When the curve can be improved but cannot be obliter- ated.—-The treatment of this class is most difficult, because the affec- tion has lasted long enough for bony and ligamentous changes to have occurred which prevent complete restoration ; therefore the treatment must have the double object of straightening the spine as much as possible, and providing against subsequent re- lapses, which are very likely to occur should the treatment be abandoned prematurely. Exercises.—The measures em- ployed to minimise the curvature will be similar to those for the group just described, but they should be persevered with more energetically and should be carried out for a longer time and at least twice a day. Many useful ones will be found on p. 423. Another method is the sus- pension of the patient from two parallel trapeze bars, one being a few inches higher than the other. The lower bar, which should be just within reach, is grasped by the hand on the side of the convexity of the curve, whilst the upper one is grasped by the opposite hand. The patient may either swing upon this or merely hang free of the ground. The object is to allow the whole weight of the body to tell upon the spine and thus to open out the curvature ; this should be combined with the exercises recommended above. Spinal Siippoi'is.—The value of mechanical supports to the spine— the so-called ' Spinal Braces '—in this class of case has been very much debated, and opinion is divided as to whether they should be employed. Fig. 146.—Dovvd's Machine. The resistance against wliich tlie exercises are performed can be increased by adding weiglits to tlie sliding brackets. Two macliinps are shown side by side. {Percy Lewis.)