213 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS patients suffering from advanced and serious internal organic disease, if not syphilitic in origin ; in cases in which the fundus oculi is not normal ; and especially, perhaps, in patients with advanced vascular degeneration. It should be said, however, that these precautions may be found in the future to err on the side of caution, and patients suffering from all of these conditions have been treated with the drug without mishap. ' Salvarsan ' is a yellowish powder which is sold in glass bulbs exhausted of air and hermetically sealed. It dissolves in water or in normal saline solution, yielding a clear yellow solution which is highly acid in reaction. Several methods of administering the substance are in vogue, of which the pleasantest for the patient and the most rapidly efficacious is the intravenous ; it is, however, perhaps a little the most difficult in applica- tion. The simplest method is that of Volk, who gives the powder freshly ground up with liquid paraffin and injects it under the skin of the back. This probably allows a more continuous action of the substance to occur, and may be used with advantage after an intravenous injection. Another method is that of Herxheimer, who triturates the powder with one-third of a cubic centimetre of 20 percent, caustic soda, adds gradually 10 c.c. of distilled water, continuing to grind the whole together, and injects imme- diately. This is injected deeply into the muscle of the buttock. It is an effectual process, but is often so painful that it is not advisable to use it, if any other can be used. Numerous forms of apparatus have been introduced for use in the intravenous method. The ordinary infusion used for saline infusions is supposed not to be sufficient, since some method is required by which no trace of the solution shall be injected into the tissues. To avoid this it is usual to employ a two-way canula by which normal saline solution can be injected first, then the solution, and, lastly, normal saline again. But if the technique here described be followed, no special apparatus is required and an ordinary infuser will answer very well. The author uses an appa- ratus (see Fig. 58) which presents the advantages of being cheap and portable, of being easily sterilised, and of allowing the solution to be filtered through a sterile filter-paper just before use. It consists of a glass bottle of, at least, 400 c.c. capacity {a), fitted as awash-bottle, and having a funnel {b),the stem of which almost touches the bottom of the bottle, and a short tube passing just through the bung (c). To this is fitted about a yard of india-rubber tubing {d), which fits into a short length of glass tubing [c], which serves as a window. To this a needle (g), about as large as those used for antitoxin, or a little larger, is fitted by another short length of india-rubber tubing ( /'). A second bottle (/e) of about the same capacity as the first is also required ; it should be plugged with cotton wool and should contain a few glass beads. To prepare the apparatus for use, 300 c.c. of normal saline solution made with distilled water (this is important) are placed in the bottle (a), and both it and the other bottle are sterilised in the autoclave ; a filter-paper must first be