DEFORMITIES 4o6 obliquity may be corrected easily and pass practically unnoticed. A very common cause is obliquity of the pelvis, resulting from an inequality in length of the two lower limbs. This may occur from various causes, such as tuberculous hip disease, congenital dislocation of the hip, the arrest of development which follows infantile paralysis, simple asymmetry, etc. In weakly subjects scoliosis is a common complication of bad genu valgum or even of flat foot. The primary curve in this group is usually in the lumbar or lower dorsal region. Cases due to inequality in the weight borne on the two sides of the spine.—Common examples of this are seen in nursemaids who habitually carry children upon one arm, labourers carrying hods, pails, or heavy weights always on the same side, or cases in which amputation at one shoulder joint has been performed in a young subject. Scoliosis does not necessarily occur in every case in which unequal weights are carried on the two sides ; as long as the subject is strong and vigorous, and the weight carried is not out of proportion to the strength of the muscles, the latter are able to maintain their tone and to keep the spine erect when the position of rest is assumed. When, however, the muscular system is weak or the weight is excessive, and particularly when it is carried for long periods at a time, scoliosis is apt to result. Cases primarily due to weakness of the spinal muscles, aided by the habitual assumption of a faulty position.—This cause is responsible for a large number of cases. As long as the patient is in good health, the muscles upon the two sides of the spine act together to keep that structure erect; but in certain subjects, and especially at certain periods of life, muscular weakness occurs, and the muscles are no longer equal to their task of keeping the spine in its normal position for any length of time. This is most frequently seen in girls between the ages of twelve and seventeen—a period which comprises the onset of menstruation, and the abandonment of the free vigorous life and exercises of childhood. It is a period often marked by a predilection for sedentary habits, the semi-recumbent position, confinement to heated rooms and the keeping of late hours, together with the assumption of tight-fitting garments which hinder the free play of the muscles so essential to the proper development of the trunk. The condition is still further aggravated if antemia be present ; fatigue is then produced by any slight muscular exertion, and this also leads to avoidance of active exercise and the assumption of faulty attitudes. One of the most potent factors in the production of scoliosis is over- fatigue, due to prolonged standing, sitting, or walking. Nursemaids, type- writers, school children continuously engaged in reading, writing, or piano- playing, occupations which involve the habitual assumption of a faulty position of the spine, may all develop scoliosis, should the general health be such as to cause enfeeblement of the muscles. A similar result occurs in girls who are in the habit of riding on horseback for periods long