SCOLIOSIS 425 2. Raise each leg to the vertical, knee kept straight ; return to the position of rest, the other leg immovable. Exercise of the psoas and iliacus and quadriceps extensor (see Fig. 149). Fic. 149. 3. Bend the head to each side so that the jaw rests on the ground ; return slowly to the position of rest without moving the shoulders. The arms must be kept immovable, palms upwards. Exercise of rotators and lateral flexors of head and neck. Series B. General Instructions.—Same position as above, except that in each case the movement starts from the follow- ing position : the elbows close to the side, forearm bent upon the arm, fists closed, witli the thumb side to the shoulder (see Fig. 150). Fig. 150. I. [a] The length of the body (see Fig. 151,a), [h) In a cross (see Fig, 148, b). (c) Vertically upwards (see Fig. 151, b). {d) By the sides of the head (see Fig. 148, c). Exercise of biceps and triceps, scapular and pectoral muscles, and latissimus dorsi. 2^ Fig. 151. 2. Move out each leg transversely, knee kept straight, the other leg immovable, return to the position of rest. Exercise of thigh muscles and muscles passing from pelvis to great trochanters (see Fig. 152). 3. Bend the head until the chin touches the chest; return slowly to the position of rest (see Fig. 153). Exer- cise of sterno-mastoid, anterior neck muscles, and splenius, complexus and posterior neck muscles. Fig. 152. Fig. 153. Series C. 1. Circular turn of the arms.—The palms upwards, the arms describe a half circle on the earth, to rejoin at the sides of the head (see Fig. 148, c). There the fingers cross each other (see Fig. 154), the patient stretches out as far as possible, and brings the arms back parallel to the side of the body by describing a half circle in a vertical plane '^'f- (see Fig. 151, 6). Exercise of all the muscles attached to the scapula and upper end of the humerus. 2. Circular movement of the leg.—The leg held straight is lifted vertically, carried outwards to the earth, and returned to its place. All the rest of the body