TUBERCULIN IN TREATMENT 523 with the rapidly increasing doses used in the early days of the treatment and accounts for the disreiuite into which it fell. One of the main endeavours of the surgeon using tuberculin should be to avoid as far as possible any obvious reaction, either local or general. The slight reactions desired are inappreciable except in rare cases such as tuber- culosis of the iris. A third action is probably the production of anti- tuberculin or other defensive antibodies by which the patient is rendered more or less immune to the toxins and other products of the tubercle bacillus. The forms of tuberculin which have been introduced are numerous in the extreme. Koch's old tuberculin consists of the broth in which tubercle bacilli have been grown, evaporated to one-tenth of its bulk. It is the most potent and probably the most valuable form of tuberculin, but its use requires more care than most of the other preparations. T.R. contains the bodies of the bacilli themselves in a fine state of sub- division. It is less potent than old tuberculin, and should be used in cases in whicli there is fever. It is easier to use than old tuberculin, but it is also decidedly less efficacious, and where it is used in the com- mencement of a course of treatment it may be advisable to go on to the other form subsequently. Bacillary emulsion contains the bodies of the bacilli themselves, and probably also some old tuberculin. P.T.O. (Perlsucht-tuberculin-original) is tuberculin prepared from bovine tubercle bacilli by a method analogoas to that used for old tuberculin, but not concentrated. It is less toxic than the latter substance, and may be used for the commencement of a course of treatment. All forms of tuberculin have to be diluted before use, in the earlier stages of the treatment at least. Sterile normal saline solution should be used as the diluent, and per cent, of carbolic acid or lysol should be added to prevent subsequent bacterial contaminations. The dilutions should be made in sterile test-tubes, and a hypodermic syringe may be used to measure the various fluids required. It is very important to notice that the diluted fluids soon lose their potency, and should not be used more than four days at the utmost after being prepared. It is especially necessary to bear this in mind in working up to high doses, otherwise sharp reactions may be caused when a fresh and potent supply of tuber- culin is used after some that has become inert. The methods of giving tuberculin fall under three main types. (1) The Opsonic Melliod.—Here minute doses (sometimes so minute that it is difficult to believe that they have any action) are given, the intervals between the doses and the amounts in each being regulated by frequent observations of the opsonic index, an attempt being made to keep this at a high level for as long a period as possible. The results of this laborious jirocedure do not justify the amount of work which it entails, and the method is generally abandoned. (2) TIic Use of Small Doses at Long Intervals.—This is a kind of