TUMOURS OF THE CELLULAR TYPE 251 The treatment is to remove the myxoma and its capsule, cutting through the healthy tissues beyond. The Fibromata consist of fully formed connective tissue and occur in two varieties—the soft and the hard. The soft fibroma is more cellular than the hard, and contains delicate fibrous bundles not closely approximated. Its usual seat is the skin, where it appears as molluscum fibrosum. The hard fibroma is composed of dense fibrous tissue, showing a concentric arrangement around the vessels which are adherent to the tumour, and remain open when divided, especially the veins. It is nodular, whitish-grey, creaks under the knife when cut, and contains large cavernous venous spaces. It occurs wherever there is dense connective tissue—in the skin, in the connective tissues, especially the fasciae, in the nerves, periosteum, etc. The fibromata are simple tumours which grow slowly, and are only injurious when they press upon important structures. They undergo various forms of de- generation, leading to calcification, or cystic formation. Moles are subcutaneous tumours containing a pigment called melanin. They are highly cellular in structure, and opinion is divided as to whether the cells are derived from the deeper layers of the epithe- lium or the chromatophore cells of the true skin. They may become mahgnant, with rapid metastasis throughout the body. In some cases this may occur without any obvious change in the mole itself. Treatment.—The hard fibromata should be removed, and when they possess a definite capsule they may generally be shelled out of it with ease; but in many cases, when they occur in connection with the fasciae, the capsule is not well defined, and it is necessary to take away this structure along with them. There is no tendency to recurrence after complete removal. The pedunculated molluscum fibrosum can be snipped off, and a very small scar is left. Moles can only be excised ; they have no capsule. In removing a large fibroma care must be taken not to cut into its substance, for the large vessels are embedded in the tumour and are unable to retract, and therefore the bleeding may be very severe. The removal of fibromata in the naso-pharynx may be complicated by the most alarming and uncontrollable haemorrhage if this precaution be neglected. If such an accident should happen, the tumour must be ablated as quickly as possible, when the vessels leading to it will generally contract, and the haemorrhage will cease spontaneously; even if this be not the case, the bleeding points will be much more readily accessible. The Lipomata are tumours composed of tissue which resembles normal fat and is arranged in lobules with connective tissue between. The cells are somewhat larger than normal fat cells. Sometimes the tumours contain a considerable quantity of fibrous or mucous tissue, and they are met with in two forms. One is termed the diffuse lipoma, in which there is a diffuse formation of coarse fat not surrounded by a capsule ; it is usually met with at the back of the neck on each side of