178 WOUNDS Eucalyptus ointment is an excellent application, but half-strength boric ointment also acts well. In the Third and Fourth Degrees, when there is partial or entire de- struction of the whole thickness of the skin or of the deeper tissues, great care must be taken to keep the parts aseptic, because the patient's greatest risks are connected with sepsis after recovery from the shock and for the first week or two afterwards. How best to secure asepsis is a question of considerable difficulty, for it must be remembered that burnt parts absorb fluids with extraordinary rapidity, and this is especially the case with regard to carbolic acid. Hence, if this drug be freely used as a disinfectant in burns, grave symptoms of carbolic poisoning, possibly ending in the death of the patient, may result. Therefore the strong mixture should not be used for the wound, and reUance must be placed on I in 1000 sublimate solution. The undamaged skin around the burnt area may be safely cleansed with strong mixture. Since the heat itself has disinfected the part, it is not necessary to employ disinfectants with the thoroughness required in operations, should the burnt area have escaped subsequent soiling, as may be the case when the patient is seen soon after the accident. Absence of infection may be expected when the burnt part has not been covered with clothes ; when, however, clothes have been pulled over the part in removing them, great care must be employed in disinfection. As the patient is suffering from shock and as the manipulations necessary for disinfection are very painful, additional shock will be avoided if a general anaesthetic be administered. Therefore it wiU often be better to apply some simple dressing such as ung. eucalypti in the first instance, and to administer a full dose of morphine, and so to allow the patient to rally from the shock. He is then put under an anaesthetic, the skin around is purified carefully with strong mixture, and then it and the burnt area are washed thoroughly with a I in 1000 sublimate solution, which is subsequently removed by douching with sterilised saline solution. The best dressing is cyanide gauze rinsed out in a i in 8000 sublimate solution, and sahcylic wool. The dressing should be left undisturbed for two or three days if the temperature remain normal and the patient be comfortable ; indeed, should there be no evidence of sepsis after two or three days, the dressings may be left on for a week or even longer, any scabs which form being soaked off at each dressing. The advantage of this dressing is that it keeps the part aseptic and also allows the discharge to dry on the surface; a reference to Chap. IV. will show that one of the most important points in the treatment of gangrene is to promote drying of the part. When the slough begins to separate (sometimes it does not do so, but becomes organised in the same way as blood-clot) and the parts around are granulating weU, eucalyptus or boric ointment may be substituted. When the slough has separated, the wound must be treated as a healing ulcer (see p. 51), and, if it be of any size, the