199 TETANUS applied in watery solution (10 to 25 per cent.). Some surgeons state that they have got good results by spraying the affected area freely with carbolic acid, upon the presumption that the acid is absorbed by the lym- phatic vessels, and thus directly affects the organisms ; probably this idea has no good foundation in fact. In most cases applications calculated to relieve the local discomfort are sufficient. When there is neither much heat nor pain, all that is necessary is to wrap the part up in sali- cylic wool. When both pain and swelling are present, lead loiion or lead and opium lotion (see p. 9) is to be recommended; lint kept constantly moist with the lotion should be placed over the affected area. During desquamation it is well to keep the part anointed with some antiseptic ointment, such as the ung. eucalypti. This relieves the troublesome itching often complained of, and lessens the chance of dissemina- tion of the infective epidermic scales. In a case of the so-called phlegmo- nous or gangrenous erysipelas, the treat- ment is identical with that of diffuse cellulitis (see p. 31). Free iticisions should be made into the part in all directions so as to allow the escape of the discharge, and this should be fol- lowed by constant irrigation (see p. 32). The advisability of using antistrep- tococcic serum in this affection must also be borne in mind ; so far the results obtained from it have not been encouraging. At the same time, it does not seem to do anv harm, and therefore any of the forms of treat- ment mentioned above may well be accompanied by the injection of 20 c.c. of the serum at present supplied by the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine; half that quantity should be given again in twelve hours, while a third dose may be given twelve hours later (see also p. 173). Fig. 56.— Kraske's Treatment for Ery- sipelas.—There s-hould be a clear interval of two inehes between the ring of scarifications and the margin of the rash. TETANUS. Tetanus is an infective disease of wounds due to a special bacillus and characterised by painful tonic contractions of the muscles with convulsive exacerbations ; the contractions commence in the muscles of the jaw and neck, and spread to all the voluntary muscles of the body. SYMPTOMS.—The affection usually begins between the fifth and fifteenth day after the infliction of the wound. Preceding the onset of