INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 28 dependent spot, if this be possible, and, when the appearance of the sub- sequent scar is of importance, in the Hnes of cleavage of the skin. Thus, abscesses in the neck should be opened by oblique rather than by longi- tudinal incisions (see Fig. 34). When the size of the scar is not a matter of importance, the skin incision should be long enough to allow the surgeon to introduce his finger and explore all the recesses of the abscess cavity and break down any septa that may be present; as a rule this cannot be done satisfactorily without the aid of touch. When the abscess is superficial and the size of the scar a matter of importance, it is allow- able to make an incision only just large enough to admit a pair of dress- ing forceps. The forceps are introduced into the interior of the abscess cavity and pushed in all directions and the blades frequently expanded, so that any septa present may be broken down and the cavity thoroughly opened; a small drainage tube is then inserted. In situations, such as the anterior triangle of the neck, where the use of the knife in the deeper tissues would endanger important structures, some surgeons prefer to open the abscess by what is known as Hilton's method. In this plan the knife is laid aside as soon as the skin has been incised, and the deeper tissues are carefully bored through with a pair of fine dressing or sinus forceps until the pus is reached. When the forceps have entered the abscess cavity, the blades are expanded until a sufficient opening has been torn in the tissues to enable a drainage tube to be introduced. Before they are removed, the forceps should be pushed into the abscess cavity in all directions and the blades frequently expanded so as to break down any septa present. When an abscess has been opened in this way, a probe should be passed along the forceps before they are withdrawn, so as to act as a guide for the introduction of the drainage tube. Unless this be done, the opening in the fascia through which the forceps entered may be missed, for it is not always in a direct line with the opening in the skin. The simplest way of introducing the drainage tube is to thread it over the probe ; the lower end of the tube is grasped with the sinus forceps and pushed into the abscess cavity, and the probe is then with- drawn whilst the forceps hold the tube in position. Drainage.—After the abscess cavity has been opened freely, and all diverticula present have been opened up, the pus should be squeezed out gently, violence being avoided lest the granulation tissue should be injured. An indiarubber drainage tube, which should always be as large as can be introduced conveniently, should then be inserted so that its end projects into the abscess cavity ; this end of the tube should be perforated with a number of large openings through which the dis- charge can escape. When the abscess cavity is very small, and does not extend to any depth, it may not be possible to introduce a drainage tube of sufficient size to be of use ; and in that case a narrow strip of gauze, dipped in a i in 2000 subUmate solution, may be laid between the lips of the incision throughout its entire length ; this suffices to keep the