39 CHAPTER III. ULCERATION. DEFINITION.—An ulcer has been roughly defined as any breach of the skin or mucous membrane which docs not tend to heal. This defini- tion, however, includes, not merely ulcers proper, the result of inflammatory processes, but also ulcerating tumours, with which we shall not deal in the present chapter. True ulceration is an inflammatory process, and a more accurate definition is, that an ulcer is a progressive loss of substance in skin or mucous membrane which has been the seat of inflammatory changes that have gone on to granulation. This continued loss of sub- stance is not due to death of visible portions of tissue (in which case there would be gangrene), but to degeneration of cells, or death of microscopic portions of the tissue—what is known as molecular death. CLASSIFICATION.—There are two great classes of ulcers proper, namely : (i) those wliich are not due to any specific virus, but are caused by various local troubles, such as imperfections in the blood-supply or the innervation of the part—this class may be spoken of as the chronic non- infective ulcer; and (2) those in which a specific virus is at the root of the ulcerative process ; this class includes a large group of ulcers, by far the greater number being the result of syphilitic or tuberculous disease, and is known as the chronic infective ulcer. In them there is, preceding the ulcerative process, a formation of new tissue which has a special tendency to undergo degeneration ; for example, syphilitic nodules undergo gum- matous degeneration, and tubercles undergo caseation: one result of these changes when affecting the skin is ulceration. These chronic infective ulcers will be discussed in detail in connection with syphihs, tubercle, etc. ; we shall only deal here with the chronic non-infective ulcers which result directly from inflammation. CAUSES.—Before proceeding to discuss the treatment of ulcers, it is necessary to consider the causes which lead to the ulcerative process, and the various types of ulcers they produce. The causes of ulceration are mainly local, and among the chief is anything which tends to produce