274 DEFORMITIES the web as far up as the knuckle. At each end of these two vertical incisions a transverse one is carried across to the adjacent border of the other finger, and thus two flaps are marked out, which are carefully dissected up to the interval between the bones. When this point is reached, the soft structures are split between the bones, and there is then a flap attached to each of the separated fingers, formed by the skin of the front or back of the corresponding fingers respectively ; the base of these flaps is on the palmar surface of one finger, and on the dorsal of the other. Each flap is then wrapped round the side of the finger to which it belongs and is stitched in place, the one along the back, the other along the front. The flaps, however, are seldom broad enough to meet the line of incision in front or behind, and generally an interval, sometimes a con- siderable one, is left between the edge of the flap and the edge of the skin to which it should be stitched. In these intervals the fat pro- trudes, and ultimately a narrow line of granulation-tissue forms ; this contracts, and may give rise to considerable deformity. In order to obtain rapid healing, Thiersch's skin- grafts (see p. 52) should be laid on this narrow line at the time of the operation; but in this operation, as in the previous one, the grafts do not prevent the occurrence of a certain amount of contraction. The final outcome of the operation is generally that the result is good in one finger, while in the other it is poor. The one that has the palmar flap is usually satisfactory, as the narrow scar which forms along the dorsum does not interfere with movement ; the patient can always flex the finger, and thus undue contraction is prevented. On the other hand, the finger which has the dorsal flap, and in which the cicatrix lies along the palmar surface, generally becomes contracted, the narrow scar causing flexion of the finger, and consequently an imperfect result. This tendency of the finger which has the dorsal flap to become contracted must be borne in mind, and skin-grafting should always be employed over any portion that is left raw, and, besides this, a sphnt must be worn for a long time, so as to keep the finger extended. The sphnt (see Fig. 73) should be applied to the dorsal surface, taking purchase from the lower part of the forearm and back of the hand ; opposite the knucldes a prolongation extends along the back of the finger, and to this the latter is strapped. The splint should be worn day and night, being only left off at intervals to permit of passive movement; at the end of two months it may be left off during the day, hnt should be worn at night for at least six months. Fig. 73.—Splint for use after Didot's Operation. The splint is made of well-padded metal, and the finger prolougatiou can be bent back to any desired extent so as to counteract all tendency to flexion.