ULCERATION 59 the grafts, he should be fitted with a knee-rest and peg on which he walks, the leg projecting out behind him. If possible he should not put his foot to the ground until six months have elapsed. In cases of sores on other parts of the body, where the erect posture does not cause congestion of the part, the patient may be allowed to walk about after the first three weeks. Results.—The scar which results after skin-grafting performed in this manner is of a satisfactory character, and ulcers which have been in- tractable for years may be closed satisfactorily by its means. In order to obtain anything in the nature of a permanent cure, however, the prescribed period of rest must be adhered to rigidly. Treatment when a Patient cannot lie up.—The surgeon has also to treat ulcers in the out-patient department of hospitals, where the measures above referred to cannot be employed, as the patient is unable to afford the necessary time, and the question then arises, What is best to be done ? In the first place, one cannot expect to cure the ulcer, though in some rare cases the ulcer does actually heal ; in the majority, however, it remains open, even though it may be somewhat improved. Never- theless, a good deal may be done to alleviate the patient's troubles and prevent the further spread of the sore. In treating out-patients it is impossible to get rid of the dependent position of the limb and the bad results this produces, but these may be mitigated by giving as much support to the circulation as possible ; the septic condition of the wound may also be got rid of. These, then, are the two points to be aimed at in the ' ambulatory ' treatment of ulcers of the leg—support of the circulation and asepsis of the sore. The asepsis of the sore is effected by the means already described (see p. 49). The most popular method of supporting the circulation is by the use of Martin's nibber bandage (see p. 48); it should be applied in the morning before the patient gets out of bed, and should be put on loosely, being simply rolled spirally around the limb. The rubber should not be stretched when applied, for one cannot gauge the amount of pressure exerted, and as the limb swells when the patient commences to walk about, the bandage may become unbearably tight. If put on loosely, the oedema which occurs on walking, distends the bandage and puts it on the stretch, and in the course of an hour or two it provides a fairly satisfactory amount of support. When the patient goes to bed, the bandage should be removed, washed, and hung up to dry ; it is a mistake to wear it during the night. When first introduced, the rubber bandage was applied direct to the surface of the sore without any dressing, but, if this be done, the discharge decomposes beneath the bandage and prevents healing. Hence the ulcer should be disinfected and then a suitable dressing—to be mentioned immediately—should be applied beneath the bandage. The dressing must not be of a greasy nature as otherwise the rubber will be spoilt.