COXA VARA 387 a lateral curve of the whole limb with its convexity inwards. Such a deformity is much more inconvenient to the patient than an antero- posterior curve, and hence the limb tends to become rotated outwards. The rotation is at first simply due to muscular action, but, being main- tained, the soft bone bends and a definite curvature of the neck of the femur follows. Alterations in the neck of the lemur are sometimes met with after fractures in that region and are then termed ' traumatic coxa vara.' These cases are dealt with in connection with fractures (see Vol. II.). PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—The direction of the abnor- mal curvature in the neck of the femur is not invariably the same, but it is generally such as to pro- duce outward rotation of the lower limb. The angle formed by the neck with the shaft of the femur is always diminished, and the great trochanter is therefore elevated and the hmb shortened. Generally also there is a bownng forward of the neck of the bone so that the tro- chanter is thrown too far back- wards and external rotation of the limb results (see Fig. 132). As seen in young children, the affection generally has the follow- ing characters : the trochanter is raised above Nelaton's line and there is marked outward rotation of the whole lower extremity. The hmits through which the limb can be rotated are smaller than normal, for, while the range of outward rotation is considerably increased, that of internal rotation is proportionately more diminished. The result is that, when the child lies flat upon the bed and the limb is rotated inwards as far as it will go, the patella at best can only be made to look directly forwards and cannot be directed inwards at all ; indeed, in the severe cases, even this amount of inward rotation cannot be effected. On the other hand, the limb can be rotated outwards until the patella looks almost directly backwards. There is also considerable alteration in the range of adduction and abduction ; when outward rotation is marked, abduction to the normal extent is impossible, and the power of flexion may also be interfered with unless the limb be in the abducted position. If, however, the hmb be abducted and rotated outwards, full l-iG. 132.—Coxa Vara. Showing the typical deformity of the iiccl< of the femur.