DEFORMITIES 366 by steady manipulaiion ; a great deal can be done by the nurse in this direction. The limb should be grasped at the extremities of the curve, the thumbs applied opposite the point of greatest convexity, and the bone may be straightened by steady and gradual pressure which does not cause the child pain. In the more advanced eases, when there is distinct bending of bones which are still soft (as will be the case when the rickety condition is active), the use of splints and internal remedies will often ensure a satisfactory result, if the child be prevented from walking. We prefer a straight internal splint of wood, slightly wider than the antero-posterior diameter of the leg, extending from the internal condyle of the femur to six inches beyond the sole. It requires careful padding opposite the tuberosity of the tibia and the inner malleolus, so as to avoid the possibiUty of ulceration from pressure. The splint is made to extend well beyond the foot, and not just an inch or two as is usually recommended, in order to prevent the patient putting the toes to the ground ; when it does not project far enough, it is possible for the child to walk about on the points of the toes. The splint is firmly fixed above and below with straps and buckles, and a broad piece of elastic webbing may be applied opposite the point of greatest convexity, so as to draw the limb gently inwards against the splint (see Fig. 120). When the curve is very marked, so that there is a considerable tendency for the splint to slip round, it is a good plan to have a light iron bar screwed to the lower end of the splint and fastened to the heel of the boot so as to prevent rotation. Although a great deal has been written about the influence of splints of this kind in straightening these curva- tures, their real function is to prevent the deformity from becoming worse, and thus allow nature to obliterate it as growth progresses. This point is of the highest importance in practice, because, should the surgeon be under the impression that he is able to obliterate the curve by splints, he is apt to apply so much force as to produce ulceration at the points of greatest pressure, namely, over the convexity of the curve or opposite the knee and ankle. It may be safely said that, unless the bones are so soft that they can be straightened by the hand, the application of splints can produce little alteration. Massage and electricity [vide supra) should also be employed. Fig. 120.—Simple Apparatus FOR Bow-leg. 'ihe splint is bandaged in position on the right side; on the left, it is simply fastened with straps and buckles. The two splints are of unequal length so as to prevent the child from walking.