175 BURNS AND SCALDS water, or by solids at 212° F. ; and in this case the Malpighian layer of the skin is disorganised, and inflammation, as shown by erythema and the formation of bullae, follows. The third degree is reached when one of the foregoing causes has acted for a longer period, or when the burn is caused by red-hot metal, boihng salt water, or oil. Here there is destruction of the epidermis, the Malpighian layer, and the papilla; of the skin, the result being that there is erythema, the formation of bulke and superficial dry eschars ; the slough separates in about a week. In the fourth degree the whole thickness of the skin and part of the sub- cutaneous tissue are destroyed ; there is a black eschar with a wliite circle around it, and a zone of redness beyond that. There is less pain in this form of burn, but the healing is slow. In the fifth degree, not only the skin, but the subcutaneous tissue and portions of the muscles are completely destroyed; it is caused by the long-continued action of flame or red-hot metals, or chemical substances such as arsenious paste, caustic potash, etc.; a dry slough is formed, around which are seen the various minor degrees of burns, from sloughing of part of the skin near the eschar to simple erythema at a distance. In this form of burn joints are frequently opened, especially as the slough separates, and conse- quently very serious results may ensue. The sixth degree of burn is that in which all the tissues of the Umb are charred, and there is complete destruction of the part subjected to the heat. A later phenomenon in burns is the occurrence of a certain amount of inflammation around the burnt area, due directly to the action of the heat; besides this, there may be septic infection with severe local and general results if the parts have not been rendered aseptic. Later still there is the separation of the slough, granulation, and heahng. The eonstitutional phenomena are divided into three stages, which need only be alluded to. The first stage lasts for forty-eight hours, and is marked by congestion of the parts in the neighbourhood of the burn, and great pain; besides this, there may be congestions of internal organs. Thus, for example, when the burn is situated over the thorax, the pleura or the lungs may become congested ; when it is over the skull, the meninges may be similarly affected, and so on. During this stage also there are other serious dangers—for instance, shock, delirium, con- vulsions, asphyxia from carbonic acid or carbonic oxide, or death with symptoms of poisoning attributed to absorption of the partly broken-up products of the burnt tissues. The second stage of burns lasts from the second to the sixth or eighth day, and is termed the inflammatory period ; this is marked by inflammation of the part, with sloughing of the dead tissues, and a tendency also to inflammation of internal organs ; for example, a burn over the head may be accompanied by inflammation of the brain, a burn over the thorax by inflammation of the pleura or the lungs. It is during this stage also that a peculiar phenomenon fre- quently noticed in burns—nameh', inflammation and, in some cases.