DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES 271 of the web in the downward direction and the closeness with which the fingers are bound together. In some cases (Fig. 69, A) there is mei-ely a slight extension downwards of the natural web between the fingers, which may only reach as low as the first interphalangeal joint. This web is usually loose and does not inconvenience the patient, whose chief reason for seeking surgical advice is rather to have an unsightly deformity removed than to have the usefulness of the hand increased. In others, again, the web extends right down to the terminal phalanges, and these cases may be divided into three groups : (i) those in which the web is quite broad and allows considerable play to the fingers (Fig. 69, B) ; (2) those in which the fingers are bound closely together by a narrow web, but with- out any actual fusion of adjacent bones (Fig. 69, C) ; and (3) those in which the bones of the adjacent fingers are more or less completely welded together (Fig. 69, D). Fig. 69.—Diagrams to illustrate the degrees of Webbed Fingers. A and B show two forms of the broad and extensile web ; in A it is a shght prolongation of the normal web, while in B it reaches almost to the finger-tips. C shows the fingers bound together throughout their whole length so closely that there is practically no web between them. In D the bones of the adjacent fingers are fused together. TREATMENT.—When the Web is Broad.—Many operations have been introduced for the separation of webbed fingers, but none of them is altogether satisfactory except for the cases in which the web is broad and extensile. The two chief difficulties in the operative treatment are, the constant tendencv to the re-formation of the web after division, and the tendency to contraction of the finger or fingers (especially in the direction of flexion) after they have been separated. If the web be simply divided down the centre, it will be found that the web re-forms as the wound heals, and no mechanical arrangement seems able to prevent this. Various methods have been employed in order to prevent this re-formation of the web ; for this rapid healing at the cleft between the fingers is essential. The tw o following methods are employed with this end in view. The Ear-ring Perforation.—In the perforation method the plan adopted is practically identical with that employed in perforating the ear for ear-rings (see Fig. 70). A hole is made through the base of the web and a piece of stout silver wdre is inserted through it, bent loosely round one of the fingers into a ring, and kept in position until cicatrisation