OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT 117 done. It will very often be found that the haemorrhage is coming from a superficial vessel in the skin itself and, as in these cases the blood escapes through the part of the wound nearest to the bleeding vessel, it is often only necessary to take out one or two stitches. If, however, the whole wound be distended with blood-clot, it is better to give an anaesthetic, open it up, and clear out the clots. This procedure alone often suffices to check the haemorrhage. If a bleeding point be found it must be ligatured ; if the haemorrhage be obviously due to general oozing, the wound should be carefully packed with gauze and a firm bandage applied. It is very important to act with due deliberation and with full anti- septic precautions in these cases. Although the case is urgent, the few minutes necessary for sterilising instruments, etc., is rarely of much moment, while any omission to do this may lead to grave sepsis. SHOCK. There are several factors in the complex of symptoms known as shock, and this must be borne in mind in dealing with patients who are subjected to a surgical operation. In the first place there is the simple reflex cardiac inhibition seen when a patient faints as the result of a blow. This is often seen in the course of a surgical operation involving traction or pressure upon large nerves. The patient becomes pale, has an almost imperceptible pulse, while the breathing is rapid and shallow and the whole muscular system toneless and flaccid; sweating is often observed in addition. This condition usually passes off fairly rapidly, but if the stimulus be prolonged, the condition may become more serious, and may be an important contributory factor in bringing about an immediately fatal result. Death occurs partly from the severity of the shock (the nerve centres being unable to regain their power) and partly from its duration. When the depression is long continued, and the circulation consequently ex- tremely feeble, clots are apt to form in the pulmonary artery, and recovery is then out of the question. In addition to the cardiac inhibition there is a lowering of the blood pressure. There has been much controversy as to the pathology of this condition, but the balance of evidence points to its being due to general dilatation of the peripheral vessels. Post-mortem observations are of little value, inasmuch as after death the arteries are always found practically empty. The fall of blood pressure is accentuated by actual loss of blood from haemorrhage and possibly, according to some experimenters, to inspissation of the blood itself. Shock also has an effect upon the higher cerebral centres, shown by the prolonged effect of severe operations upon the nervous stability. It is a matter of common observation that after operations, especially upon the sexual organs, the patient will often exhibit unwonted emotional pheno- mena long after the operation. For example, a woman will often be