OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT 95 strength. Perhaps the most convenient method of storing this suture material is to tie a thread around one end of a bundle of silkworm gut and to pass this through a piece of drainage tube into which tlie bundle of silkworm gut can be drawn by traction upon the tliread. The thread is then unfastened, leaving the silkworm gut inside the drainage tube, so that one or more threads can be withdrawn as required. Horsehair.—This is prepared by soaking it in a i in 20 carbolic acid solution for a week, the threads being stored for use in the same solution. If preferred, the horsehair may be sterilised by boiling. A convenient method of keeping it is to take the whole wisp of horsehair and double it in half ; the loop thus formed is held firmly and its loose ends divided into three portions which are plaited together. A thread seized in the middle of the wisp can be withdrawn without disturbing the remainder. Silver wire is readily sterilised by boiling or by passing it through the flame of a spirit lamp. In straightening a silver wire each end should be grasped hrmly with a pair of forceps and twists and kinks undone by traction ; friction injures its ductility so that it cannot be tied into a knot. Wire that is too brittle can have its ductility restored by heating it to redness in a spirit lamp. Fine copper or aluminium bronze wire is used by some surgeons, especially in America. It possesses con- siderable pliability, but we have not seen any special advantage in it over silver wire. Kangaroo Tendon.—This material is mainly employed for liga- ture in continuity of large vessels such as the innominate artery. It is prepared in the same way as catgut, but it has several disadvantages—it does not tie well and, as it is of considerable thickness, the sterilising process must be very prolonged in order to be thorough, otherwise it is liable to infect the wound. PREP.-\RATION OF SPONGES, SWABS AND DRESSINGS. SjDonges.—The proper preparation of sponges is of great importance. In our opinion, the most satisfactory method of removing blood from a wound is by the ordinary marine sponge. In the first place, sponges absorb blood better than do the swabs that have come into fashion of late years; and in the second place, shreds of cotton are apt to be left behind in the wound when using swabs. When properly prepared, both marine sponges and absorbent swabs can be efficiently sterilised, but, as they are often prepared, swabs are quite unreliable. We have never had cause to complain of any failure of the sterility of marine sponges. Sponges should be close in te.xture and soft yet springy when wet ; Turkey sponges are perhaps the best, but a good honeycomb sponge is almost as good. The meshes of the sponge frequently contain calcareous particles, the remains of the skeleta of numerous marine animals, and these must be removed by cutting out the larger fragments and by