INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 84 be sewn up as soon as the flaps have granulated and it is evident that the specific infection has been renaoved, or its effects are at an end. In some situations, tlie highest amputations that can be performed, that is to say at the shoulder or hip joint, may still leave tissues either certainly, or probably, infected, and in these cases free incisions must be made into the infected area beyond the line of amputation in the manner recommended for the treatment of cellulitis. For example, after an amputation through the shoulder joint, the tissues of the chest wall or even the flaps may need to be freely incised and in some cases this has proved successful. Phagredena.—Phagedena is a disease practically never seen nowadays, but was formerly very common, especially in times of war. It is undoubtedly a parasitic affection, but the exact nature of the organism is unknown. It consists essentially in the production on the wound of a pseudo- membranous material, beneath which the tissues ulcerate or become gangrenous, and two forms, namely, an ulcerative and a gangrenous one, are usually described. In the ulcerative form a pulpy membrane appears on the surface of the wound ; beneath this, cup-like losses of substance occur, and subsequently rapid ulceration takes place along the planes of the tissues. In the other form, the wound becomes covered with a thicker membrane, which is dark coloured, very pulpy, extending rapidly, leading to sloughing of the skin and muscles, and not uncommonly attacking the vessels and giving rise to severe haemorrhage. The disease spreads with great rapidity, and the patient usually dies in from twenty-four to forty- eight hours. Treatment.—The prophylactic treatment consists of strict antiseptic precautions in cases of all wounds, isolation of the affected individual, and great care not to infect other persons with the instruments, or by the attendants. Rubber gloves must always be worn by everyone who has to deal with the dressings in these cases. In the local treatment the chief reliance is placed on destruction of the pulpy material, either by the application of the actual cautery, or by the use of nitric acid (see p. 85) or the liquor ferri perchloridi ; of these the actual cautery seems to be the most efficacious. The parts are thoroughly destroyed with the cautery at white heat, wherever there is the slightest suspicion of the presence of the membranous material. The wound is then packed with boric lint dipped in i to 5 carbolic oil. If perchloride of iron be used, the wound should be first dried, and then lint soaked in the perchloride is packed into it and left for four-and-twenty hours, after which it may be dressed with boric lint and carbolic oil. The perchloride of iron has not a very powerful effect in this disease, and should only be employed when it is slight in extent and is not spreading rapidly. If the part affected be an extremity, amputation should be performed, provided it be possible to get well above the disease. Natur- ally, great care must be taken not to infect the stump.