221 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS Inunction is carried out as follows. A portion of the unguentum hydrargyri about the size of a hazel-nut is rubbed well into the skin every night, if possible before a warm fire, and fifteen or twenty minutes should be occupied in doing this. The ointment may be rubbed into any part of the body where the skin is comparatively thin, preferably into the axillae or the groins, and the same part should not be used on two successive nights, as otherwise considerable irritation of the skin, and possibly a pustular eruption, may be caused. For example, the inunction should be made into one axilla on the first night, into the other the following night, whilst on the third one groin, and on the fourth the other may be chosen ; on the fifth night inunction may be employed over the abdomen, and the patient should wear the same under-hnen and should not have a bath during these five days. At the end of this period he should take a warm bath, and then commence again, and go on in this way until the gums become tender, which will usually be in about six or ten days. As soon as this happens, the patient should have a warm bath, put on clean linen, stop the inunction, and substitute for it the internal use of mercurials, such as two-grain doses of pil. hydrargyri com- bined with extract of opium, three or four times daily (see p. 219). Should the condition of the gums get worse under this treatment, the dose of pil. hydrargyri should be reduced ; should it improve, the dose may be increased sHghtly, and continued for two or three weeks after the eruption has disappeared, when it may be reduced to one-half or one-third of the amount ; this must be continued for a considerable time (see p. 220). In the ' Manual of Venereal Diseases ' the plan recommended is to use for each inunction ung. hydrarg. gr. xl and adeps lanje (B.P.) gr. xx. The course of treatment is as follows; the course lasts nearly two years and no less than 3,280 grains of mercury are employed : Treatment by Inunction Months Inunctions Grs. Hg First Course. 42 daily inunctions 3 months' rest .... 3" 42 840 Second Course. Same as first .... 4i 42 S40 Third Course. 30 dail}' inunctions 6 months' rest .... I 6 30 600 Fourth Course. 30 daily inunctions 6 months' rest .... I 6 30 600 Fifth Course. 20 daily inunctions 20 400 Total 231 164 3,280