62 INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS must be accompanied by nourishing diet and good hygienic conditions. When the weakness of the ulcer is due to oedema from heart or kidney disease, treatment suitable to these affections must be employed. Among the local conditions the first that should be looked for is difficulty in the contraction of the sore. This may result from adhesion to the deeper parts, from the hardness of the tissues around the sore, as in the callous ulcer, or from the size of the original sore and the large amount of cicatricial tissue formed during healing, etc. If it be due simply to the denseness of the scar, apart from exudation into the tissues, lateral incisions through the sound parts beyond will sometimes allow the ulcer to heal. When the latter is adherent to bone it should be detached, portions of the thickened margin cut away, the surface scraped with a sharp spoon, and skin-grafting employed. In some instances portions of bone have been removed, or joints have been excised to allow of con- traction taking place; but this can very rarely be necessary, especially since the introduction of Thiersch's method of skin-grafting. In every case of weak ulcer the part must be kept at rest in the elevated position, and the weak granulations should be destroyed by scraping them away and applying undiluted carbolic acid to the raw surface ; the ulcer is thus disinfected at the same time. When the granulations become exuberant in an ulcer which has been rendered aseptic, they should be rubbed over freely with a pencil of solid nitrate of silver, the surface of the sore being dried before the caustic is applied. Should there be excessive growth of the granulations after- wards, they may be kept down by repeated applications of solid nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper made daily, or every other day. The caustic must not be applied to the healing edge. Various stimulant applications are usually advised for weak ulcers, such as solutions of sulphate of zinc (the so-called red lotion),' or sulphate of copper in a strength of two grains to the ounce of water. These are chiefly of use in that form of weak ulcer in which the surface is inactive and shows few and imperfect granulations. They are useless in the cases with exuberant or oedematous granulations. It is doubtful how far benefit results from these applications, and they should only be used in the particular form of weak ulcer to which we have alluded, and which is most often associated with general anaemia. When the sore is oedema- tous, the best dressing is weak boric ointment ; the protective and boric lint dressing tends to foster oedema of the granulations by confining the moisture. As soon as any of these ulcers get into a healthy condition, skin-grafting should be employed. Irritable Ulcer.—The intense pain associated with this form of ulcer is best met by cauterising the ulcer thoroughly with solid nitrate of silver, so as to destroy completely the sensitive terminations of the nerve. 1 The formula for ' red lotion' is as follows: B acidi borici, gr. x; zinci sulphatis gr. j ; spiritus rosmarini; spiritus lavandulae co., aa ll|ix; aquam ad gj.