WOUNDS 94 solution for a long time. It has advantages over all other ligatures in that it is more easily absorbed and therefore can be used in septic wounds. It is absorbable like other substances only when actually in contact with the tissues, that is to say, when such a hgature is actually cast off into an abscess cavity it will remain there almost indefinitely and will be discharged with the pus; when, however, the ligature is in actual contact with the tissues it is readily absorbed. Nevertheless, it presents sufficient resisting power to enable it safely to occlude vessels and to close wounds in internal organs. It is easily tied, the knot holds well, and it is not in any way irritating to the tissues. Although much has been written of the various difficulties of sterilising catgut, we personally have experienced none of them. Silk.—^This is also much employed for sutures and ligatures. We use it mainly for sutures. It is very slowly absorbed, and as a ligature material does not possess any advantages over catgut, while it must be afterwards discharged from septic wounds. It seems to us a disadvantage to fill a wound with a large number of ligatures of a material which is not readily absorbed. Chinese or Japanese twist are the commonest varieties of silk used, the latter having a slight advantage from the point of view of strength. It should be as fine as possible, usually No. 3. Silk can be readily sterilised by boiling. The hanks supplied by the instrument makers should be loosely rewound upon glass reels or small rolls of lint; if the latter be used, the end of the thread can be secured by threading it upon a needle which is then thrust through one end of the roU, carrying the silk with it ; the needle is then unthreaded and the silk cut off so as to leave about an inch of it hanging loose. About two yards of the silk, sufficient for one operation, should be wound upon each roll of lint and the pieces thus prepared are boiled for an hour without soda and are then transferred to a closely stoppered vessel containing a i in 20 carbolic acid solution in which they are stored until they are wanted for use. Silk prepared in this manner wUl retain its strength for many months ; before being used it should be rinsed in a solution of I in 2000 perchloride of mercury. When an aseptic ligature has been tied round a vessel, it becomes buried in lymph in the course of a few hours, and this lymph subsequently becomes penetrated with cells which organise into fibrous tissue, and which at the same time eat away the outer surface of the ligature, and penetrate between its strands, so that the ligature is ultimately replaced by young fibrous tissue. A very much longer time is occupied by this process in the case of silk than in the case of catgut, and it may be years before the silk finally disappears ; sometimes small abscesses form and the silk is discharged. Silkworm-gut.—This is a useful suture material prepared from the spinning organs of the silkworm and is supplied in pieces of varying thicknesses about a foot long. It can be boiled without impairing its