BURNS AND SCALDS 179 sooner it is skin-grafted the better (see p. 54). When the sloagh is unduly slow in separating boric fomentations will hasten the process. Picric acid is much used for superficial burns, as it is said to allay the intense pain effectually. It may be employed either as a saturated watery solution, painted upon the burnt area with a camel's-hair brush or applied on butter-muslin, or as an ointment containing one drachm of the acid in an ounce of vaseline. The drug is not without its dangers, as toxic symptoms—e.g. a rash, pyrexia, and greenish-red urine—have followed its use. The acid coagulates the albuminous fluid oozing from the sore, and forms a protective layer over the exposed nerve-endings in the skin. The application should be made once or twice daily, according to the size of the burn and the amount of discharge from it. We have found it useful in superficial burns; for the more severe ones we prefer the method just described. It is necessary to warn the practitioner against certain conmionly re- commended applications for burns. Carron oil (a mixture of linseed oil and hme water), for example, is a iilthy application; poultices or water dressings and dusting with flour are equally bad. The wound must be treated aseptically as far as possible, as sepsis is the primary cause of death in a large number of deep burns. Should the case come under observation with a foul sloughing wound, or should the attempt at disinfection fail, and the wound become septic, the best method of treatment probably is the water bath. If the trunk be affected and the burn be large, very painful, or accompanied by con- stitutional disturbance, the patient is placed in a bath, the water (at a temperature of 100° F.) containing a small quantity of an antiseptic, such as Condy's fluid or sanitas, and being changed every three or four hours. The patient should be taken out of the bath at night, and a wet boric lint dressing apphed ; this consists of boric lint boiled in a saturated solution of boric acid and applied warm and wet ; outside this is placed a larger piece of sterilised jaconet or gutta-percha tissae. Next morning the patient is again placed in the water bath, and kept in till evening, and this is continued until the sloughs have separated and the inflammation has subsided. Then boric dressings, antiseptic ointments or protective and boric hnt, applied as for healing ulcers (see p. 51), should be sub- stituted. When the extremities are affected, special baths (see p. 34) will be required. If the burn be of any size, skin-grafting should be employed (see p. 54) as soon as the sloughs have separated and the wound has begun to granulate ; this is especially necessary in burns, because the sores result- ing from them have a peculiar tendency to contract. Sores left by burns heal much more slowly than wounds made by the knife, probably because the heat not only destroys the vitality of the part immediately acted upon, but also impairs that of the tissues around, so that in the early stages the vital processes in them are not so active as usual. N 2