51 ULCERATION Boric Lint and Protective Dressing.-—After two or three days, when it is clear that asepsis has been obtained, and the tissues are getting into a more healthy condition, the use of gauze should be given up, and unirritating dressings and lotions employed. A saturated watery solution of boric acid is an excellent lotion, while the protective and boric lint dressing introduced by Lord Lister is as good a dressing as can be employed. In this method the surface of the ulcer is washed with boric lotion, and a piece of protective (oiled silk covered with a layer of dextrin) is soaked in carbolic lotion (i in 20), and then dipped in boric lotion to wash away the acid, and applied over the wound. The protective should overlap the sore in all directions, but ought not to extend too far beyond its edge, as otherwise sepsis may spread in beneath it. Outside the protective, pieces of boric lint, wrung out of boric lotion, are wrapped around the limb, overlapping the protective to a considerable extent in all directions. This dressing should be changed daily for the first few days ; and every second or third day the skin around should be washed with carbolic lotion (i in 20), which must not be allowed to run on to the sore. The limb should be shaved at least once a week. If there be much discharge, holes should be cut in the centre of the protective so as to allow it to drain into the lint. Wet Boric Dressing.—When the ulcer is painful, or when there are sloughs on its surface, wet boric lint should be apphed without any protective, the lint being used in the same way as a water dressing. The boric lint is soaked in hot boric lotion and apphed over the ulcer so as to extend well beyond it, and outside this, overlapping it in all directions, is fastened mackintosh, oiled silk, or guttapercha tissue, pre- viously disinfected by boiling, or by immersion in carbolic lotion. This wet boric dressing, fomentation or poultice, as it is sometimes called, should be changed twice a day, but should not be continued after the irritable condition of the sore has ceased, or after the sloughs have separated. If it be continued too long, the granulations become oedematous and a form of weak ulcer is estabhshed. Boric Ointment.—Antiseptic ointments are especially useful when the ulcers are heahng rapidly ; zinc ointment, which is commonly employed, is very objectionable on account of its septicity. The most generally useful ointment is either unguentum acidi borici or unguentum eucalypti. The boric ointment of the Pharmacopoeia, however, will be found to be too strong to permit rapid healing, and, in most cases, one of half its strength is the most suitable. This should be spread thinly and evenly on muslin or butter-cloth, no portion of the surface being left uncovered by the ointment; a piece of boric lint is apphed outside and the whole is secured by a bandage. Cases are sometimes met with in which the surface of the sore is very delicate and seems to resent the presence of any application, how- ever unirritating it may be ; as long as anything is in contact with it, E 2