INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 52 cicatrisation will not take place. Under these circumstances, the best plan is to dispense with dressings entirely and merely to place over the ulcer some contrivance that will prevent anything coming into contact with its surface. This may be accomplished by fixing over it a perforated celluloid shield (see Fig. i6) of suitable size and shape, or a wire cage moulded to fit the limb, leaving the granulating surface bare. The shield should be removed two or three times daily, and the raw surface washed with boric lotion to remove any discharge. The limb should be fixed in the elevated position, and the surrounding skin should be disinfected previously as recommended above. If a wire cage be used, the limb should be slung in a cradle and the cage surrounded by a dressing. If there be much tendency to the formation of crusts from the drying of the discharge, a moist dressing may be applied outside the shield to Fig. i6.—Celluloid Wound-shields. The shield is lusertuJ in tlie centre of a sheet of adhesive plaster, by means of which it is applied to the Umb. In the figures, two holes are represented in each shield ; these are to permit of evaporation. If it be desired to keep the surface of the ulcer quite moist, non-perforated shields may be used. prevent evaporation. A piece of gauze, soaked in boric lotion and covered with mackintosh, will suffice. In some cases Bier's treatment is of value ; this method has already been described on p. 13. Skin-grafting to obtain a Sound Scar,—A very important object in the treatment of all ulcers is to obtain a sound scar. In the ulcers affecting the lower extremity in elderly people, the scar resulting from spontaneous healing is weak, and readily breaks down if the patient does much standing or walking. The patient is therefore frequently obhged to give up work in order to get the ulcer re-healed, or must be content to employ means which merely prevent the extension of the ulcer, and give relief from some of the discomfort. When the best possible scar is desired, and when it is important to avoid great contraction, it is necessary to adopt some method of skin-grafting. There are three plans by which rapid healing of a sore may be brought about: Reverdin's epidermis grafting, Thiersch's skin-grafting, and the use of the whole thickness of the skin ; of these the best in our opinion is that employed by Thiersch. In Reverdin's method small thin portions of the superficial layer of the skin are snipped off with curved scissors. Pieces about the size of a hemp-seed are planted on the surface of the granulations at short (