OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT 89 has passed a good night, has not so long to worry and excite himself about the operation as when a later hour is chosen ; and, in the second place, he does not miss his food. It is very important to secure a good night's rest before the operation, particularly in nervous patients, and in most cases there is no objection to the administration of a narcotic, preferably a quarter of a grain of morphine, subcutaneously at bedtime. THE OPERATING ROOM AND ITS ACCESSORIES. In hospitals and other large institutions, surgical operations are usuallv performed in operating iheatrcs or other rooms specially set apart for the purpose. Although there are at present many nursing homes and private hospitals which possess operating theatres, by far the larger number of operations performed in private are done in the patient's own bedroom. At first sight it might seem as if this were exposing the patient to an xmnecessary risk, but it is by no means necessarily the case. The elaborate arrangements of a large operating theatre are designed not so much for the performance of any single operation, as to enable a number of operations to be performed in safety and convenience one after the other ; and, provided that a sufficiently large and light room can be obtained, where the heating arrangements are satisfactory, an operation can be performed in perfect safety in an ordinary private house, but it is well to reproduce as far as possible the conditions of an operating theatre. There is a tendency nowadays for operating theatres to become complex, but the essentials of an operating room are in reality very simple. It should be light, warm, and readilv cleaned. The best liglii is that known technically as a studio light, preferably with a north aspect. This form of window consists of two parts, a large vertical portion which should take up the greater part of one side of the theatre and a sort of half skylight continued for two or three feet into the roof of the theatre. This provides a top light without the disadvan- tages of a skylight. A skylight should not be used, as it is apt to condense the moisture in the room and to allow this to drip on to the operating table or even into the wound. A good artificial light should also be installed, if possible from more than one source, so as to minimise the risk of its failing dming the course of an operation. The lights must be arranged so as to give a brilliant diffuse illumination with no shadows. The theatre should be provided with some heating apparatus other than an open fii'e; when this is not possible, an open fire must be used, but it has many disadvantages. While it certainly facilitates ventilation, its presence in a room where chloroform is being evaporated leads to the for- mation of oxidation products, which are intensel^MiTitating not only to the patient but to the surgeon, and an operation cannot be conducted properly under such conditions. A gas fire should never be allowed, as these troubles are even more liable to occur wxih. it. If steam or hot water