268 DEFORMITIES sometimes a complete digit is met with—that is to say, there are three distinct phalanges (or, in the case of the thumb, two) perfectly developed. It is very rarely that reduplication of a metacarpal or metatarsal bone also occurs ; but if it does, the additional digit then articulates with the carpus or tarsus respectively. The first phalanx of the supernumerary digit is generally attached to the side of the metacarpal bone, either with or without a proper articulation. It is common to find no trace of a joint, the union between the superfluous digit and the metacarpal bone being effected by means of fibrous tissue ; in other cases there is a well- formed joint on the lateral surface of the metacarpal bone, furnished Fig. 66.—Diagrams to illustrate the forms of Superfluous Digits. In A the con- nection between the digit and the rest of the hand is of sliin and fibrous tissue only. In B there is a distinct articular surface on the lateral aspect of the metacarpal bone. In C there is a supernumerary metacarpal bone as well as the phalanges. D, One form of bifid terminal phalanx. with articular cartilage, ligaments, etc. In other cases, again, the con- dition is that of bifid finger or toe, and this is more often seen in the thumb than in the other fingers ; the terminal phalanx is split and two complete phalanges may be present, each possessing a separate nail (see Fig. 66, D). Frequently, however, the division in the terminal phalanx does not extend through its whole length, but only affects the tip ; the base of the phalanx is then undivided. TREATMENT.—The removal of the supernumerary digit is the only remedy for this condition. It is not usually a matter of consequence if a supernumerary toe be retained, but additional fingers are unsightly and generally ought to be taken away. In order to make sure of the most satisfactory result, operation should be done in early life. {a) When the digit is quite separate from its neighbour and is only connected with the side of the metacarpal bone by fibrous tissue (see