TUMOURS COMPOSED OF MORE COMPLEX TISSUES 265 accompanied by increasing pallor of the patient, but not at first by emaciation. Ultimately death takes place from exhaustion. Treatment.—The treatment of lympho-sarcoma is unsatisfactory. Excision of a mass of lympho-sarcomatous glands seldom arrests the progress of the disease, even though the whole of the affected area may apparently be removed. Other glands soon enlarge, and recurrence often takes place in the neighbourhood of the primary growth. Hence, except at a very early stage, or where its situation is such that the growth causes much suffering from pressure upon important organs, excision cannot be recommended ; even at an early stage it is of doubtful value. Cysts.—This is perhaps the best place to refer to the various forms of cysts ; the true cysts are those of new formation, and are not produced by obstruction of pre-existing canals or by degenerative changes. Cysts may be unilocular or multilocular, and are found in the ovary and in the breast. In the ovary, multilocular cysts form large tumours generally composed of one or two very large cysts, and numbers of smaller ones. The walls are smooth and shining, the contents a clear fluid or a turbid glairy material ; papillary outgrowths are not uncommonly present in their interior. The cysts of the breast are similar in character, but smaller, while the intra-cystic growth may be more markedly developed. Cysts may be the result of degeneration in tumours or they may be due to the dilatation of previously existing cavities, such as sebaceous cysts, hydronephrosis, hydroceles, etc., but these cannot be classed as true tumours. Complex Tumours.—These may be solid or cystic ; they are con- genital, and generally contain a variety of tissues. They are most fre- quently met with over the sacrum, forming the sacro-coccygeal tumours, and may contain bone, connective tissue, muscle, nerves, cartilage, epithelium, etc. ; cysts also are often present. Another form of con- genital complex tumour is the dermoid cyst, the lining wall of which is composed of structures resembling skin, containing the skin glands as well as hairs, and often teeth and even bone. They occur in the ovary and in various parts where epithelial structures may have been included during development, more particularly in the neck in connection with the branchial clefts and aliout the root of the nose or the angular process of the frontal bone. The treatment of these tumours is described in connection with that of the affections of the organs in which they occur.