15 ACUTE INFLAMMATION Drinks.—The patient should drink large quantities of fluid, with the view of diluting the poison in the blood, and of promoting its rapid elimination by the kidneys. Four to six pints of milk should be given daily if the patient can take it. The combination of milk with barley- water is good, as the latter prevents to some extent the constipating effects of the milk ; it also retards coagulation. If the milk curdles in the stomach, lime-water may be added, or still better, one-half to one drachm of the liquor calcis saccharatus to each tumblerful of milk. The patient should be also encouraged to take fluid drinks containing bicarbonate of potash or spirit of nitrous ether.i These methods cause the kidneys to act without any undue irritation. Irritating diuretics must be carefully avoided on account of the tendency to albuminuria and nephritis in many of these acute inflammatory affections. Drugs.—Drugs are of little advantage at this stage, but at night Dover's powder (gr. lo) may be given, partly to obtain sleep and freedom from pain, but mainly to promote the action of the skin. The latter object may also be furthered by giving liquor ammonire acetatis in two- to four-drachm doses every three or four hours. Food.—The food should be fluid, essentially milk, with beef-tea occa- sionally ; it is well to administer the food about every two hours—a tumblerful of milk alternating with a cup of beef-tea or some form of meat extract. An excellent nutritive broth can be made by adding to each cupful of bouillon a teaspoonful of finely grated meat. During the period of recovery, nourishing diet should be given, with stimulants and tonics, especially iron. PROGNOSIS.—The prognosis of acute inflammation depends on its nature and seat. Should an acute inflammation, of the degree of which we have been speaking, last for more than three or four days, suppuration will almost certainly take place. If, on the other hand, the inflammation be subsiding, wrinkling of the skin will be noticed, and when this occurs, a favourable prognosis as regards suppuration may be given. This is not invariably the case, since wrinkling of the skin may be met with in the vicinity of an abscess, owing to the subsidence of the oedema. ' A very good one is that used in most hospitals, and called ' imperial drink ' ; it consists of one to one and a half drachms of cream of tartar added to a pint of boiling water, and then allowed to cool, a little sugar being added to sweeten it. The cream of tartar may also be conveniently given in gruel, made by adding a tablespoonful of oatmeal and about a drachm of cream of tartar to half a point of water, and boiling it, adding afterwards a tablespoonful of brandy and a little sugar. Another excellent diuretic drink can be made by adding half an ounce of phosphate of soda to an ounce of water flavoured with a little lemon-juice.