ANESTHETICS 458 is being inhaled at the precise moment when the muscular twitching, etc., due to the nitrous oxide, are first observed. It is claimed for the combined method that it is far more pleasant for the patient, as he is unconscious of the irritating and disagreeable taste and smell of the ether ; that it is much more rapid ; that to a great extent it does away with, or considerably modifies the excitement and struggling, and so enables us to dispense with the help of others in restraining the patient. Ether is also frequently used in dental work for the purpose of intensifying the action of nitrous oxide (etherising the nitrous oxide). The Clover's apparatus may be used for this purpose, and the procedure is practically the same as already detailed, except, that the patient is allowed to get more fully under the influence of the nitrous oxide, and the ether is turned on more rapidly. I believe myself, that in this use of ether, the local effect of the vapour upon the buccal mucous membrane is largely responsible for the prolongation of the anaesthesia. ADMINISTRATION OF CHLOROFORM. Strictly speaking, one ouglit now to describe the administration of diluted chloroform in the shape of the Mixtures (A.C.E., etc.), as these rank next above ether in ansesthetic strength. To avoid repetition, however, chloroform aneesthesia will first be referred to. Properties.—Chloroform has a chemical formula of CHCI3. Its spec, grav. should be i'497, and chloroform made from pure alcohol should be used in preference to the so-called methylated chloroform for anaesthetic purposes. Unless carefully protected from heat and sunlight, it is apt to decompose. It should be quite colourless ; neutral to test paper ; leav- ing no disagreeable smell or coloured residue on evaporation ; giving no precipitate with a solution of nitrate of silver ; and not turning brown on mixing with an equal volume of pure sulphuric acid. The vapour is upwards of four times as heavy as air, uninflammable, but decomposing into highly irritating gases when passed through or brought into contact with a flame. Hence it is important, when operating at night, or in smaU rooms in the presence of a naked flame, to secure a full and adequate amount of ventilation. Chloroform is one of the strongest anaesthetics that we possess ; above 4 per cent, of the vapour constitutes a dangerous dose. While with nitrous oxide or with ether,' special means have to be adopted to obtain a sufficient percentage of the vapour ; with chloro- form, on the other hand, the greatest attention must be paid to securing a sufficient supply of air. Cases Suitable.—If the suggestions already made (see p. 447) as to the alternative use of the several drugs be adopted, it will be found that the use of undiluted chloroform is specially indicated in such cases as the following, viz.—Infants, and very young children of one or two years of age and in people over 60 ; those suffering from acute or very recently acute lung trouble ; in parturition, where only a partial action seems to be required ; in operations about the nose and mouth, to maintain the anaesthesia induced by other anaesthetics; in proximity to the actual