INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELiE, 8 can be promoted by the application of warm fomentations, or the scarified surface may be sponged free of clots and the cup applied a second or even a third time ; the quantity removed by each cup is from one to three drachms. The method is especially useful in the lumbar region, for renal affections. There is no trouble in arresting the bleeding. In the method of local blood-letting by Scarifications the latter are made with a scalpel with the precautions already referred to in describing cupping. Scarifications are mostly used in cases of inflammation affect- ing mucous membranes, such as inflammation about the back of the throat; when there is oedema of the glottis much good may result from early scarification of the pharynx with a curved bistoury introduced through the mouth. Free incisions into an inflamed part are often of great value in acute inflammatory conditions} they not only allow the escape of blood from the engorged blood-vessels, but also permit the escape of the exudation. Fig. 2.—Method of applying an Ice-bag. which might otherwise cause serious pressure upon the blood-vessels. This is more especially the case in inflammations in dense tissues, such as periosteum and bone, where the blood-vessels are confined within rigid canals, and where the pressure of the exudation in these canals may be so great as to obliterate the vessels, and so cut off the blood- supply to the bone. In early acute suppurative periostitis and osteo- myelitis, it is imperative, if extensive necrosis is to be avoided, to make free incisions through the periosteum as soon as the nature of the affection has been diagnosed, and, in the case of osteomyelitis, to remove portions of bone so as to open up the medullary cavity freely. Cold.—The local inflammatory phenomena may be diminished by the application of cold, which is supposed to act by contracting the arteries supplying the part, and so diminishing the flow of blood through it. But in severe inflammation, the vitality of the tissues maybe so depressed by the prolonged appHcation of cold, that actual death of the tissue may foUow, and this is a danger which should be borne in mind. Cold also slows the circulation so that the blood becomes unduly venous, and thus also interferes with the nutrition of the part. Hence the use of