DIFFUSE CELLULITIS 31 and may do harm, so that it is probably better to use sterile salt solution. When the discharge is foul, however, a solution of peroxide of hydrogen (id vols.i) may be employed with benefit. This is a powerful oxidising agent and has also the useful property of breaking up fragments of blood-clot and soft sloughs and bringing them away. In some cases the wound can be cleaned out effectively by sucking up the discharge through a piece of indiarubber tubing connected to a syringe. This is specially valuable in some abdominal abscesses whose walls are made up of adherent coils of bowel and in which rupture of the abscess wall and dissemination of the pus might follow irrigation. General.—The general treatment of acute abscess is similar to that of acute inflammation (see p. 14). As soon as convalescence begins, nourish- ing diet, fresh air, and stimulants are necessary. DIFFUSE CELLULITIS In diffuse ceUuUtis the pus is not contained in a well-defined abscess cavity, but infiltrates the tissues. This condition is generally due to the presence of the streptococcus pyogenes. SYMPTOMS.—The tissues are infiltrated with pus, and portions of them often die and come away afterwards as sloughs. The local inflam- matory condition spreads rapidly, and the skin becomes red and brawny. As suppuration occurs, the swelling becomes boggy, but it is difficult to make out distinct fluctuation—at any rate, in the earher stages ; later on, however, it is not uncommon to find a cUstinct small fluctuating cavity in the infiltrated area. The infection spreads along the lymphatic vessels, so that red lines are seen extending up the limb to the nearest lymphatic glands quite early in the case. As the infective material spreads along the lymphatic vessels it not infrequently bursts through their walls at various points, leading to fresh patches of diffuse cellulitis. It is not uncommon for the condition to terminate in pyaemia. The general symptoms accompanying this local condition are very grave, presenting the characters of asthenic inflammatory fever (see p. 3). TREATMENT-—Local.—The local treatment must be prompt and radical, and must aim at giving free and early exit to the pus and sloughs. A small incision can do no good, because the pus is infiltrating the tissues, and could not escape through a small opening. It is essential that the incision should be free, and should extend right through the whole of the inflamed area. If one incision does not suffice to lay the whole of it open, adcUtional ones must be made till the entire area has been incised. In any case these incisions should expose the deep fascia and must go even deeper if necessary ; they should be made parallel to one another and to the great vessels of the part. After the incisions have been made, the part should be squeezed ' i.e. one volume of the solution will yield ten volumes of oxygen.