36o DEFORMITIES to divide a portion of the extensor Drevis digitorum muscle at its origin, and tlie insertion of the tibiahs posticus tendon into the scaphoid will probably be cut through. The soft parts are retracted and protected from injury by introducing beneath them flexible copper spatulse of suitable breadth, by which they can be pulled away from the bone. The next stage is the removal of a wedge-shaped portion of the tarsus. The amount of bone to be removed will depend upon the degree of the deformity, only sufficient being taken away to enable the foot to come straight. The section through the bone is best effected by a broad chisel (by means of which the surgeon is enabled to vary the amount removed at different parts), but it is well to mark out the intended dimensions of the wedge with a narrow saw as a preliminary measure. The base of the wedge looks towards the upper and outer surfaces of the tarsus, while its apex is at the inner border of the sole. After the section has been made, the bleeding is arrested and the foot brought into position ; if the section has been made as directed above, the front part of the foot will be raised and brought into a position of slight abduction. If the position be not satisfactory, more bone may be sawn off j if it be, the incisions are stitched up without a drainage tube. It frequently happens that the skin over the instep is made very tight when the foot is brought into the corrected position. This is due to shrinkage resulting from the its faulty position, and if both the incisions were stitched up longitudinally a deep transverse groove would form between them over the dorsum of the foot, and the tension would be so great as to cause sloughing. We are, therefore, accustomed to stitch up the wound on the inn( r side in the ordinary way first, and then, to suture the external one in any manner that will give rise to the least tension of the skin over the instep after having brought the foot straight. As a rule this incision takes a somewhat J.-shape ; that is to say, a certain portion of it at either end is stitched up longitudinally, but the central portion of the upper edge of the wound is folded upon itself and sutured (see Fig. 119). After the wound has been sutured and the dressings have been applied, the foot is placed upon a back splint furnished with a foot-piece at right angles, and care must be taken to see that the os calcis as well as the anterior part of the foot is fully everted. It is well to leave the division of the tendo Achillis until union has occurred between the bony surfaces. After the stitches have been removed, the foot is put up in plaster of Paris Fig. 119.—Method of Suturing the Wound AFTER Cuneiform Tarsectomy. The upper lip of the wound Is folded upon itself about its centre and the adjacent edges sutured together. long continuance of the limb in