ADMINISTRATION OF CHLOROFORM 459 cautery ; in cerebral cases ; and most surgeons now prefer this drug alone for abdominal work. Chloroform enters largely, however, into the com- position of the A.C.E. and other mixtures, so that practically it still retains a prominent place in the list of available antesthetics. The preparation of the patient should be carried out strictly on the lines suggested on p. 443, and, with regard to position, an emphatic protest must be entered against any attempt being made to administer chloroform to a patient sitting in a chair. This protest is necessary, because it is still occasionally used for tooth extraction with the patient in the ordinary dental position. When chloroform is inhaled the patient should be recumbent, his legs horizontal and and his body not raised above 45°. Apparatus and Administration.—The simplest way to administer chloroform, and at the same time ensure a sufficient supply of air, is to sprinkle it drop hy drop by means of a suitable drop- bottle (Fig. 203), on to the outside of a folded towel (Fig. 204), or on to a handkerchief, or, better still, on to a piece of domette stretched tightly over a metal frame (Schimmelbusch's Inhaler) (Fig. 205). Personally, I object to the use of lint, the woolly sur- face of which quickly becomes sodden, and renders the equable distribution of the vapour almost impossible. By some, the Junker's Inhaler (Fig. 204) is pre- ferred. The principle of this apparatus is simply that of blowing air through a layer of liquid chloroform, by means of a hand-bellows, the mix- ture of air and vapour being conveyed to a face- piece. Variations in the strength of the vapour are determined by the force and frequency with which the bellows are pressed. Care must be taken that the liquid chloroform does not more than half fill the bottle, and that the bellows- Fic. 203. — Chloro- form Drop - Bottle WITH hollow Stopper. Fig. 204. Towel folded for Administration of Chloroform. tube and the exit-tube are fitted to their respective metal connections- Fatal accidents have occurred from neglecting these points, as Hquid chloroform is then poured into the patient's mouth. Whichever method be employed, it must be constantly borne in mind that care and vigilance, on the part of the administrator, are much more important elements of success than is the use of any particular apparatus.