75 GANGRENE the ankle is apt to extend upwards as far as the knee and lead to gangrene of the flaps. Generally, therefore, amputation through the condyles of the femur or the lower third of the thigh is preferable. Gangrene due to Sudden Obstruction of the Blood-vessels.— This may be the result, firstly, of pressure outside these structures, for example, after ligature, the application of tight bandages, pressure from the fractured ends of bones, etc.; secondly, of rupture of their walls, as in dislocations or in the attempted reduction of dislocations ; and, thirdly, of blocking of their lumen, as by an embolus, followed by thrombosis. In the first two cases the vein may be blocked as well as the artery, and while this makes no essential difference in regard to treatment, the symptoms vary somewhat. When the obstruction is primarily arterial, the first thing noticed is that the limb below becomes pallid from absence of blood ; it then assumes a dark livid colour, and the various changes already described as characteristic of moist gangrene follow. In em- bolism there is, in addition to the sudden whiteness of the limb, violent pain at the point where the embolus has been arrested, and this is a valuable sign as showing where the block has occurred. When, how- ever, the case afterwards comes to amputation it must not be assumed that the seat of pain is the upper limit of the obstruction, because throm- bosis takes place subsequently to the embolism, and may extend upwards for a considerable distance. If there be venous as well as arterial obstruction in the first instance, the part below remains dark and becomes cedematous very quickly. Treatment.—This depends on the extent of the gangrene, and the great question for consideration is that of amputation. Before deciding this point, sufficient time should be allowed to elapse to enable the surgeon to see how much of the collateral circulation will be established, because, although at first the part may appear white and dead, a very considerable portion, or indeed the whole, may recover as the result of the enlargement of the anastomotic circulation. While waiting however, precautions must be taken not to allow putrefaction to occur, and also to permit drying (see p. 68). If gangrene occur, the part soon becomes dusky and remains cold. The finger firmly pressed into the skin makes no difference to the colour; whereas, if the circulation be maintained, the part pressed upon becomes white and regains its original appearance when the pressure is discontinued. When recovery takes place, it does so within the first twenty-four hours, and amputation should be practised without further delay when it is certain how much is going to die. There is no necessity to wait for the formation of a line of demarcation. The point at which amputation should be done depends on the anatomy of the arteries and on the extent of recovery. It should, how- ever, be borne in mind that the gangrene is generally less extensive in the skin than in the deeper parts, and therefore if the flaps be cut close