WOUNDS 198 the first thing in the morning. A pleasant aperient is effervescing sulphate of soda (3j), or a Seidlitz powder. Quinine (gr. j-ij) every four hours and tincture of perchloride of iron (Hlxv in water) every three hours are looked upon as being of special value. The diet should consist of milk, beef tea, or strong soups. Local.—In the more severe forms of erysipelas it is important to make the most strenuous efforts to check the local progress of the disease. In former days a favourite plan was to draw a line on the skin around and just in front of the area of the redness with solid nitrate of silver, or to paint on liniment of iodine in a similar manner, and it was found that the erysipelas stopped at this Une in a certain number of cases and seemed unable to cross it. At first sight this treatment does not seem very rational, but if we bear in mind what has just been said as to the relation of erysipelas to phagocytosis it becomes explicable and logical. If the skin be irritated with nitrate of silver or strong iodine, increased leucocytosis will occur in the part, and if this be done a day or two before the erysipelas organisms reach the area to which the irritant has been applied, they will find the tissues and vessels blocked with large numbers of leucocytes, the phagocytic action of which may suffice to prevent their further spread. It seems probable that one reason why this method did not succeed uniformly is that the application was not always made sufficiently early or far enough away from the spreading margin to ensure an adequate leucocytosis in the part before the organisms reached it. The method may be of value if care be taken to apply the irritant very thoroughly at some considerable distance from the edge of the redness. Kraske's method, which at the present time seems to promise best, probably acts on the same principle. Kraske's method consists in making numerous small scarifications in the skin at some distance beyond the spreading edge of the erysipelas, just deep enough to draw blood. The scarifications should be very numerous, and should cross each other and surround the entire reddened area about two inches from its edge (see Fig. 56); after oozing has ceased, the affected area is either soaked or sprayed with a i in 20 carbolic acid solution for an hour. Then compresses of gauze soaked in i in 40 carbolic acid solution are applied over the scarified surface. Partly as the result of the scarifications and partly as the result of the carbolic acid, con- siderable irritation is produced all round the erysipelatous area, and, as suggested above, when the organisms reach the irritated part they are met by a barrier of cells. Certainly experience seems to show that Kraske's method is the most effectual plan of treating erj^sipelas, so long as the affection is a true cutaneous one and does not involve the sub- cutaneous tissues as well. It should only be used in severe cases, however, as it is painful, and an anaesthetic is required during the scarification. Among the many applications to the actual erysipelatous area advo- cated by various authorities, perhaps the best is ichthyol, which can be