WOUNDS 152 (2) When the amount of oozing from the wound is excessive. The old rule that dressings required changing very soon after discharge showed itself through them is not now applicable ; as a matter of fact, it is not uncommon for a little blood to appear on the outer surface of a dressing such as that described above within a few hours after the operation ; but this dries up quickly and does not form a suitable medium for the growth of bacteria, because the double cyanide salt is a powerful inhibitory agent, and, being only slightly soluble, is not washed out by the first blood which passes through the dressing. AH that is neces- sary is to wet the soiled portion with i in 20 carbolic solution, to apply fresh wool outside this, and to secure it by another bandage. (3) When a drainage-tube has been inserted, the dressings must be changed at the end of two or three days in order to remove it; if the wound be large, the discharge through the tube may be sufficiently copious to necessitate a change of dressing at the end of twenty-four or forty-eight hours. (4) If the temperature rise and remain over 100° F. for more than twenty-four hours after the operation, or if there be much pain, the dressing must be removed to see if anything be wrong with the wound. How to change Dressings.—When the dressings are changed at the end of about ten days, the wound is usually soundly healed ; the stitches are then taken out, and a small piece of gauze or salicylic wool is fixed over the line of incision for a few days by means of collodion. In changing dressings it is well to employ a i in 2000 sublimate solution to wash the wound, except in operations in the axilla, the perineum, or about the pubes, etc., where, on account of the proximity of hairy parts, it is advisable to wash the skin around the wound with a i in 20 carbohc lotion. The region of the wound should be surrounded by towels wrung out of an antiseptic solution, so that the bedclothes cannot come into contact with the wound, the instruments, or the surgeon's hands. The latter are disinfected as for an operation (see p. loi). The wound should be swabbed over gently, but thoroughly, with the antiseptic solution. Should the wound be not quite healed, or should it seem advisable to leave any of the stitches in place for some time longer on account of tension upon the edges, a dressing may be applied similar to that put on immediately after operation (see p. 150), the only difference being that the sponges need not be employed. In breast cases, for instance, where a large amount of skin has been taken away, it is often advisable to change the first dressing before the end of the first week, in order to remove some of the stitches ; the remaining stitches may then be left for another week. After-progress of the Wound.—It will be found that neither local nor constitutional disturbance follows operations conducted with the