374 DEFORMITIES When the child is allowed to be about during the day in the open air, the limb should be confined on a splint at night. In young children the best form is a Thomas's hip splint, in which an outside bar of iron connects the bands surrounding the thigh and leg (see Fig. 124). The splint is fixed on in the usual manner, the band around the thorax is fastened in position, and the trunk secured to the upper part of the splint by means of a flannel bandage. The thigh and leg are then fastened to the splint, and a broad piece of elastic webbing, well padded opposite the internal condyle, is passed around the knee and fastened to the outside iron band so as to draw the knee outwards. The knee must not be allowed to become flexed, or else the pressure is of no avail in remedying the deformity ; care must likewise be taken to prevent rota- tion of the limb at the hip joint, which would render the outward pull upon the knee ineffectual. If, however, the leg and thigh be carefully bandaged to the splint before the elastic pressure is ap- plied and if the bands of the splint be closely applied to the limb, this is not likely to occur. The splint should be removed in the morning, the limb washed and rubbed, the knee manipulated as before, and then the child may be allowed to crawl or play about in the sunshine. Cases in which there is a sepa- ration of three or four inches between the malleoli.—^The child should be kept off his feet, and should wear both day and night a splint designed to pull the knee out- wards ; the best is an external splint furnished with a band around the knee so applied as to pull the latter outwards. The chief disadvantage of a sphnt of this kind is that the child generally manages to rotate the leg outwards, and thus the band, which should bring the knee against the splint, is rendered ineffectual. Directly any outward rotation occurs, the band ceases to act upon the deformity, and simply bends the knee. Care should therefore be taken to see that, whatever spUnt be applied, this rotation is impossible. In young children the modification of Thomas's splint just described answers very well, and its action may be increased by prolonging the lower end of the iron bar three inches beyond the foot so as to prevent the child from walking. A splint more suitable for older children is one in which there is an outside iron running from a pelvic band above to a slot in the heel of the Fig. 124.-—Thomas's Hip Splint, adapted for USE IN Genu Valgum. This is an ordinary Thomas's hip splint to which is added an outside iron bar join- iog the lateral wings above and below the knee. This iron may be prolonged below the foot so as to prevent the patient from walking. (Modified from Hoffa.)