DEFORMITIES 344 When there is sufficient union between the divided ends of the tendons, namely, after the lapse of about three weeks, treatment on the lines already laid down for the milder degrees of the deformity should be carried out {vide supra). In the case of a child not able to walk, massage of the weak muscles, with proper manipulations and fixation of the foot by splints in the intervals, should be employed ; when the child can walk, the apparatus above recommended should be used in addition to massage and electricity. When the deformity is associated with some alteration of the bones, resulting either from rickets or from injury, the initial treatment must be directed to remedying the osseous deformity. Thus, in rickety cases the bones of the leg should be brought straight (see Curved Tibiae) should the deformity be extreme. In traumatic valgus occurring after Pott's fracture, it may be necessary to restore the bones of the leg to their proper position. This matter is discussed in connection with Pott's fracture (see Vol. II.). The results of this operation are often very successful. TALIPES EQUINO-VALGUS. It is not uncommon for some equinus to be combined with talipes valgus. This deformity is perhaps more frequently congenital than acquired. The remarks about equino-varus may be applied equally to talipes equino-valgus. As in the treatment of equino-varus, the valgus deformity should be corrected before the tendo Achillis is divided. TALIPES VARUS. Pure talipes varus is exceedingly rare, the great majority of the cases being the condition spoken of as talipes equino-varus. True varus, however, may result from infantile paralysis, affecting only the peronei muscles and leaving the tibials and the anterior muscles of the leg un- affected. It may also result from cicatricial contraction, or from badly united fractures of the leg. The treatment of this affection is similar to that of the varus deformity in talipes equino-varus. TALIPES EQUINO-VARUS This form of club-foot is the most common and the most important of all those with which the surgeon has to deal. The foot is in a position of adduction, the inner side being shortened and drawn up, whilst there is a marked lateral flexion at the mid-tarsal joint, the anterior part of the foot being drawn inwards. Sometimes the displacement of the front of the foot is so marked that its inner border forms an acute angle at the mid-tarsal joint. Besides this deformity the heel is drawn up as the result of the shortening of the calf muscles. The vertical plane of the whole of the foot is altered, the under surface of the os calcis looking somewhat inwards instead of directly downwards