229 ACCESSORY FACTORS action of the cold. Indeed, anything which lowers the vitality and resistance of the tissues predisposes them to the attack of the tubercle bacillus. Sepsis is also important, not so much as an inducing cause as one which increases the activity of the disease, or at any rate interferes with its spontaneous cure. Chronic inflammation of a tissue seems to weaken it and to enable the bacilli to obtain a foothold and to spread more rapidly than in healthy parts, and anything which keeps up a state of chronic inflammation may favour the development of tubercle in persons in whose bodies the bacilli are present. There are also certain conditions connected with the bacilli themselves which are of great importance, the principal being the number of the organisms that gain access to the port. When the bacilli are few in number the risk of infection is not great, and if it does occur, the disease is generally more chronic than when they are numerous. The bacilli also vary in virulence under different conditions; and, lastly, the result depends a good deal upon whether they are free or are attached to coarser particles. When bacilli are isolated and are present only in small numbei"s they sometimes pass through the mucous membranes and become caught in the neighbouring lymphatic glands without giving rise to any primary disease at the seat of entrance ; this is more especially the case in the intestinal tract and the lungs. When, however, they are attached to coarser particles, as, for example, when the source from which the infection is derived is cheesy material which is not broken up very fine, then there is a local tuberculosis at the point of entrance, from which glandular infection may result. General.—The question of heredity is one of the first for consider- ation, and it is held by many that tuberculosis is an hereditary disease- As a matter of fact, however, there is no evidence of true heredity ; what seems to be inherited is only the tendency of the tissues to form a good nidus for the growth of the tubercle bacillus. This tendency may also be induced by such conditions as bad hygiene, confinement in close rooms, foul air, etc. ; according to others, the same result is produced by the ingestion of foods rich in potash and deficient in sodium, such as an excessive amount of vegetables, especially potatoes. Age and sex appear to exercise an important influence on the develop- ment of tuberculosis, although we cannot exactly say in what way the influence is exerted. Surgical tuberculous diseases are most frequent in children before the age of ten, but they also occur up to old age; and it is important to note that, the older the patient is, the less is the likeli- hood of a spontaneous cure. Sex has also a considerable influence in so far that females do not seem to be so predisposed to certain forms of tuberculosis as are males. This applies more particularly to the affections of bones and joints; and although this may be explained to some extent by the greater exposure of the male to injury, this consideration does