335 TALIPES CALCANEUS necessary, to remove a second slice, the thickness of which can be estimated accurately after the wedge has been removed. The bleeding is arrested, the wound stitched up without a drainage tube, antiseptic dressings applied, and the foot put into proper position. A back s]:)lint with a footpiece at right angles is put on for about six weeks, until bony union has occurred. Then the tendo Achillis may be divided, and, if necessary, the posterior ligaments of the ankle also may be cut, so as to enable the foot to be brought up to a right angle in the first instance, and, subsequently, to an acute angle. In another three weeks the patient may be allowed to walk, and the treatment recom- mended for the milder cases of talipes equinus is then carried out (see p. 326). TALIPES CALCANEUS. As a congenital deformity this is rare. It usually occurs as the result of infantile paralysis of the calf muscles The congenital form is often associated with an absence of the fibula, or some similar arrest of develop- ment of the leg. When the hbula is absent, there is usually talipes cal- caneo-valgus. Some degree of talipes calcaneus is often seen in the newly-born child, but it rarely requires attention and nearly always recovers spontaneously. In the paralytic form, the front part of the foot is drawn up by the unbalanced action of the muscles on the front of the leg ; the heel is depressed, so that in bad cases the upper part of the instep may lie in contact with the anterior surface of the leg, whilst the patient walks upon the extreme point of the heel. There is a tendency to some valgus deformitv as well. TREATMENT.—As in all the other paralytic cases, it is easy to get the loot in position without using force as long as the affection is in its early stages ; in these cases the treatment must be directed to retaining the foot in proper position, whilst efforts are made to maintain or restore the functions of tlie paralysed muscles. By Massage and Apparatus.—To meet the first indication, a suit- able splint should l)e applied ; in children we prefer the simple metal splint with the connecting stout copper wire, already described (see Fig. 100), which can be appUed by the nurse. The splint should be taken off several times a day and massage should be applied to the calf muscles, followed by manipulations designed to stretch the muscles on the front of the leg. The Faradic current may be beneficial, whilst at night, and in the intervals between the apphcation of the massage and galvanism, the splint should be re-applied. If these measures be carefully carried out in the early stages, tenotomy will seldom be necessary. The subsequent treatment will depend upon the condition of the muscles—i.e. the extent and distribution of the paralysis,—and also on the willingness of the parents to submit the child to operative procedures. Thus the jiaralysis of the calf muscles may be only slight, but the parents