TUMOURS 256 it out. It presents the following great advantages over all other methods. It is certain and rapid in its results, the affection being cured permanently within a fortnight; there is no pain attending the after-treatment ; no frequent change of dressings is called for, and therefore there is not the liability to septic infection which is almost inevitable where the opposite is the case. The cases most frequently met with in practice are the moderate-sized capillary nsevi, with or without affection of the sub- cutaneous structures, and this form is certainly best treated by enclosing it in an oval incision well free of the growth and cleanly excising it. A large naevus may not be suited for excision either because its size renders the operation formidable from loss of blood, as may be the case in infants, or because there may be difficulty in bringing the edges of the wound together. In the former case it is ad\'isable to adopt one of the methods described below for procuring thrombosis, and when enough of the tumour has thus been obliterated the rest may be excised. In the latter case most superficial nasvi can be satisfactorily treated by excision followed by undermining of the skin so as to secure apposition of the cut edges. When the area is too extensive for this, Thiersch's skin grafting is pre- ferable to the scarring that inevitably follows other methods. Even on exposed parts the scar left by the operation is not so noticeable as that which results from other modes of treatment. A superficial naevus will rarely be found too extensive for treatment by excision, especially if Thiersch's grafting be employed ; several partial operations may be required. When the surgeon has to deal with a deep-seated cavernous ngevus, which is fairly limited and does not involve any important structure, complete excision should also be attempted. There is no particular danger in excising a nsevus. It should be done strictly antiseptically, and if care be taken to cut well beyond the tumour, there is no bleeding of importance, the vessels actually dilated being those within the growth itself; those that are divided in the operation are merely the isolated afferent and efferent trunks, which are easily secured as they are cut. It is important not to cut into the growth, as otherwise the haemorrhage may be profuse and controlled only with the utmost difficulty. When, however, the naevus is partly superficial and partly deep, involving structures which cannot be readily removed, such as the lip, or even more important deeper structures, then excision is not advisable, and other methods must be employed. Electrolysis.—In using electrolysis for naevi, different effects are produced by the positive and negative poles ; at the positive pole a firm, hard, and readily organised clot forms, whilst at the negative it is soft and frothy, and of little value in the formation of new tissue. Hence it is the positive pole which is chiefly relied upon to produce the local effect. Several needles connected with this pole should be introduced into the swelling at various points, especially in the neighbourhood of the