THE DIAGNOSIS OF BACTERIAL INFECTIONS 519 and appropriately stained. At least a hundred leucocytes are then counted and the number of bacilli ingested by each is noted, so that an average may be worked out of the number of bacilli ingested by a leucocyte. This is then compared with the number obtained in an exactly similar experiment carried out with serimi of a person known to be of the normal standard, and the result expressed as a decimal fraction of that which is taken as the normal. Thus a patient suffering fromfurunculosis maybe found to have an opsonic index of 0'5 to staphy- lococci though he may have an index of I'o to tubercle bacihi. It is necessary that a normal control be worked out with each set of sera to be tested, as the bacillary emulsion cannot be made a constant factor, and probably the leucocytes also vary in activity, so that it is only by using the same ' cream ' and the same emulsion that accuracy can be obtained. The leucocyte cream should be used as fresh as possible, in order that the leucocytes may be alive and active, but this will last at least an hour and probably much more. The method is especially useful in the diagnosis of tuberculosis, in cases in which it is impossible to obtain material in which a search for the bacillus can be made, and in which the other methods of diagnosis which depend on hypersensitiveness to tuberculin are contra-indicated. In general terms it may be stated that the range of the opsonic index to tubercle in healthy persons or in persons suffering from disease other than tuberculosis is between 0'8 and i'2, as compared with the average of normal persons, taken as i. Indices, therefore, which lie between these figures are inconclusive one way or the other. Indices which lie above or below these limits raise a presumption that the disease is tuberculosis, and, the further they are removed from the normal, the more trustworthy is the diagnosis : thus, an index of 075 would be suspicious only, whereas one of 0'5 would be practically conclusive, and the same is true for indices of 1-25 and 1-5 respectively. When the index lies between the normal limits and yet the diagnosis of tubercle seems probable, advantage can be taken of the fact that a minute injection of tuberculin, not enough to cause an obvious reaction, or massage of the area of the lesion (which is supposed to cause ' auto- inoculation ' and let loose some tuberculous products) causes more or less characteristic alterations of the opsonic index, which usually falls and then rises to a higher level than that at which it stood previously. To make use of this test a series of observations of the index must be taken, and the effect of one of the procedures mentioned studied. If the index remains practically constant throughout, a diagnosis of tubercle is unlikely : if it varies greatly, and especially if a ' negative phase ' followed by a rise occurs, the patient is probably tuberculous. It is claimed that this method will enable the observer to say that a lesion which was known to be tuberculous is cured : if the index remains constant in spite of massage or of use, it is supposed that the bacilli in