DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES 285 corrected, the toe being in a position of slight abduction and fully ex- tended. After ten days the dressings are removed, the stitches taken out, and the toe carefully moved by the surgeon himself, who takes care to keep it in proper position. Then the toe is held in a position of slight abduction and extension with the rotation corrected, and a narrow boric lint bandage is wound around it and carried up over the foot and instep, and bandages soaked in a solution of silicate of potash are applied outside this. It is well to re-apply the wooden splint for two or three days until the silicate bandage has set firmly, when the patient may be allowed to walk with the foot in a gout- shoe. The bandage should be kept on for six weeks, when the toe should retain its position fairly well. Passive movements should be carried out for two or three weeks after this so as to get rid of any adhesions that may have fonned during healing ; these rarely give rise to trouble, however. The patient should wear a sock with a separate compartment for the great toe, and also the spring appa- ratus for bunion (Fig. 83) for two or three months so as to keep the toe in its abducted position ; sometimes the result is so good that a boot with a toe- post is all that is necessary. The boots must be constructed on the principles laid down on p. 281. In about three or four months after the operation the patient is generally able to discard all apparatus, and there is no fear of recur- rence if proper boots be worn. The re- sults of the operations are extremely satisfactory. It is important to remem- ber, however, that the joint is necessarily opened, and that strict asepsis is therefore of primary importance. Excision of the head of the first metatarsal has been employed for this affection and is strongly advocated by some. It should be borne in mind, however, that removal of the head of the first metatarsal impairs the walking power of the foot very considerably, and, in view of the satis- factory results obtained by the procedures already described, we are inclined to think that such an operation is only necessary when there Fig. 85.—The Bones of the Great Toe in a case of Hallu.x Valgus. The black line indicates the amount of bone that must be cut away.