INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 22 microscopical examination, is of the utmost value in many cases of chronic inflammation. For example, in chronic periostitis there is nothing that reUeves the pain and improves the condition so much as a free aseptic incision; the effect of this is much increased if the thickened periosteum be taken away at the same time. Similarly, in chronic osteitis the best method of treatment is to gouge away a large portion of the inflamed bone. Even although the whole of the affected area be not removed, the rest very soon improves, and the patient is much relieved, and often cured. It must not be forgotten that free incision plays a dual role in many doubtful cases simulating chronic inflammation; it may be curative, but in any case it is of great value in diagnosis. Knowing that free incision mto a chronically inflamed part is one of the best means of treating the Fig. 8.—Gas Stove for heating Cauteries. This is an ordinary soldering stove whicb will raise the cauteries to the desired temperature in a very short time. inflammation, there need be no hesitation in ascertaining the true state of matters by making a free incision. Should it turn out that there is a tumour, the diagnosis is made, and the surgeon can treat the case as is required. On the other hand, should the case prove to be one of chronic inflammation, the most effectual steps have been taken to cure the patient. Pressure in cases of chronic inflammation, is mainly of value when the process is subsiding ; if it be apphed when the inflammation is active, it is apt to increase the latter instead of diminishing it. When, however, the inflammation is subsiding, pressure is most valuable ; in cases of thickening of the epididymis after acute epididymitis, for example, strapping the testicle is the favourite and best method of treatment. Pressure is also frequently employed for chronic inflammation of joints, whether due to tuberculosis or not. The essential point in employing pressure is that it should be equable and not too great; an excellent way