i6 INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS, CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. PATHOLOGY.—The process of chronic inflammation is some- what difficult to understand and explain, because it generally forms a part of some other morbid process, and it is not easy to separate one from the other. It may begin as an acute inflammation, in which the symptoms do not entirely disappear, but gradually become less acute until the affection passes into the chronic form; on the other hand, the inflam- mation may be chronic from the commencement. The essential feature in chronic inflammation is the predominance of changes in the cellular tissues over those in the vascular and lymphatic channels which are ob- served in acute inflammation. In addition to the increased vascularity of the part similar to that seen in acute inflammation, a tissue which is the seat of chronic inflammation contains in abundance cells derived not only from the blood itself, but also by a process of multiplication from the endothelium of the blood-vessels, lymphatic vessels, and in part from the fixed connective-tissue ceUs themselves. These cells—fibroblasts, plasma-ceUs, mast-ceUs—aU contribute to the formation of young fibrous tissue, which may be collected into one scar-like mass, or may be spread out between the cells of an organ—such as a gland—where they may cause destruction of the cells of that organ by a process of mechanical compres- sion and deprivation of blood. The latter type of chronic inflammation, which is well seen in the syphilitic affections of the liver and testis, is known as fibrosis. The presence of these cells affords valuable aid in distinguishing between inflammatory and malignant growths, as they stain very characteristically by methods such as that of Pappenheim (see p. i8). A chronically inflamed tissue never undergoes suppuration of itself. The so-caUed suppuration occurring in a part which is the seat of chronic inflammation is due either to acute septic infection, or to the liquefaction of the morbid material which is causing the inflammation ; the latter is especially the case in tubercle. A typical chronic abscess, which has not been acute at the commencement, is practically always tuberculous. CAUSES.—Like the acute form, chronic inflammation depends upon the continued action of some exciting cause, but the causes which produce chronic inflammation are not of the same violent nature as those which set up the acute form. The most common cause of chronic inflammation is the presence in the tissues of some morbid material, such as the specific virus of one of the chronic infective diseases—notably, tubercle and syphilis ; and it is weU to bear in mind that in these cases, especially in tubercle, the main part of the swelling in the affected area is due not to the mass of tuberculous tissue, but to the chronic inflammation which its presence has set up.