ACUTE INFLAMMATION 3 When the inflammation is due to a chemical or mechanical irritant, the symptoms are usually entirely local, with the exception of such slight constitutional disturbance as may be caused by pain and sleepless- ness. When, however, the local irritation is produced by parasitic organisms, there are usually general or constitutional symptoms as well. These vary considerably in degree ; in some cases they are trivial or absent, while in others they are of extreme severity. They are marked by a certain amount of fever and present two great types. The first type is commonly termed sthenic fever, and in it there is headache and anorexia, the temperature rising to 103° or 104° ; the pulse becomes rapid, varying from 100 to 112, and is full, not easily compressible, but regular. The tongue is furred, white, and moist, the skin is hot and dry, the bowels are constipated, and the urine is scanty and high-coloured. Delirium of a noisy and violent character is often present ; in fact, this form of inflammatory fever is characteristic of strong reaction, and the patient shows no marked depression. The second type, termed asthenic inflammatory fever, is met with in certain cases ; the great characteristic of this type is marked depression of the vital powers. The temperature, as in the other case, is high, but the pulse is quicker and may run up to 130, and is soft, thready and easily compressible. The tongue is dry and brown, delirium, if present, is of a low mut- tering character, and the patient is generally in a semi-conscious state. The condition of the patient is in fact due to an acute septic poisoning (see p. 189). TREATMENT.—This is best considered under the heads of local and general treatment. The great characteristic of the inflammatory changes is that they only continue as long as the cause which produces them continues to act ; as soon as the cause ceases to act, they quickly come to a standstill, and then either resolution or retrogression, with or without scar-formation, takes place. Removal of the Cause.—Hence, the first great question in the treatment of inflammation, is whether it is possible to remove the cause. The causes of inflammation will be discussed more in detail in connection with suppuration; but, as regards treatment, they may be divided into two classes—viz. those which are and those which are not readily got rid of. The removable causes are foreign bodies, chemical irritants, and the like; the irremovable ones are micro-organisms growing in the tissues, and they are, unfortunately, the more common. The action of these parasites, however, is to a certain extent dependent upon, or influenced by, various circumstances which favour their growth. There- fore, if any foreign body or other removable cause be present, it should be removed and if there be no cause that can be removed, an attempt should be made to put the tissues under the most favourable conditions to resist the growth of the parasite, and, moreover, anything which is aiding its development should be got rid of if possible. B 2