ULCERATION 45 and is the result of long-continued but not necessarily severe pressure. The pressure leads to thickening of the epidermis and the formation of a callosity, underneath which inflammation and suppuration occur. When the thickened epidermis is removed, a deep sore is exposed, with great hypertrophy of the skin around the edge. The Paralytic Ulcer occurs in connection with deficient innervation especially in infantile paralysis and after injuries to nerves In paralysed limbs it is not uncommon to meet with atonic ulcers which are painless, quite superficial and often multiple. As a rule they have imperfect granulations upon the surface, and most commonly occur about the phalanges of the fingers and toes. They are also found on the sole of the foot, however, and in this situation they are generally ascribed to pressure, and tend to assume the appearances characteristic of pressure ulcers. In connection with these ulcers due to pressure upon a paralysed part, the so-called perforating ulcer of the foot deserves special notice. It occurs on parts exposed to marked pressure, and is chiefly met with beneath the heads of the metatarsal bones, more especially that of the great toe. It is generally seen in men over forty who have much stand- ing or walking, and it is not necessarily connected directly with any actual paralytic condition of the limb, but is supposed to result from a condition of peripheral neuritis. It is also found in locomotor ataxia and diabetes. The affection commences as a callosity, followed by in- flammation of the skin underneath, and a sore forms, resembling at first an ordinary pressure ulcer in all respects. The ulcer extends in depth, without any great superficial increase in size, becomes more or less funnel- shaped, and rapidly penetrates as far as the bone. The latter may then become the seat of a rarefying osteitis, and may be entirely destroyed opposite the ulcer, which continues to increase in depth, until ultimately the dorsum of the foot is reached and a complete perforation is established. When the ball of the toe is the seat of the aft'ection, the metatarso-phalan- geal joint is often opened and destroyed. The base of the ulcer is generally covered with reddish warty granulations, the skin is foul, and the cavity of the ulcer is filled up with a dense mass of epidermis, which undergoes decomposition. In some cases the epidermis spreads down the sides of the ulcer, and in many there is marked proliferation of it around the margins of the sore. In certain constitutional states, such as diabetes, ulcers may form. In diabetes, inflammation or ulceration may follow the shghtest scratch or cut, and the chief characteristics of a diabetic ulcer are its rapid spread, the presence of considerable inflammation around it, and often sloughing of the tissues. The endarteritis which occurs in diabetes and the special liability of the tissues in that affection to septic infection, have probably much to do with the rapidity of spread and the inflammatory condition of diabetic ulcers.