DEFORMITIES 378 fracture on the inner side ; this is certainly the easier operation, and the one that gives the better rectification at the time. The patient lies upon the back, with the hmb abducted and rotated outwards, and supported upon a firm sandbag. The hip and knee joint should both be flexed. The following description of the operation is in Macewen's own words : ' A sharp-pointed scalpel is introduced on the inside of the thigh at the point where the two following lines meet, one drawn transversely a finger's breadth above the superior tip of the external condyle, and a longitudinal one di-awn half an inch in front of the adductor magnus tendon. The scalpel here penetrates at once to the bone, and a longitudinal in- cision is made, sufficient to ad- mit the largest osteotome and the finger should the surgeon deem it necessary. Before with- drawing the scalpel, the largest osteotome is shpped by its side until it reaches the bone. ' The scalpel is withdrawn, and the osteotome, which was introduced longitudinally, is now turned transversely in the direc- tion required for the osseous incision. In turning the osteo- tome, too much pressure must not be exerted, lest the peri- osteum be scraped off. It is then convenient to pass the edge of the osteotome over the bone Fio. 127.—Incision for Macewen's Osteotomy ^^^^[\ reachcS the pOStcrior iu- FOR Genu Valgum. The thick line is the incision, the dotted unes the guides for fixing it. tcmal border, whcn the entire cutting edge of the osteotome is applied, and the instrument is made to penetrate from behind forwards, and towards the outer side. ' After completing the incision in that direction, the osteotome is made to traverse the inner side of the bone, cutting it as it proceeds, until it has divided the uppermost portion of the internal border, when it is directed from before backwards, towards the outer posterior angle of the femur. ' In cutting on these fines, there is no fear of injuring the femoral artery. The bone may be divided without paying heed to this order of procedure, but it is better that the operator should have a definite plan in his mind, so that he may be certain as to what has been divided, and