EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD 504 is a tuberculous lesion present there is a marked fall of the index (negative phase) followed by a rise, in most cases to a higher level than the original one. When this examination is made the determination must be per- formed with great accuracy and repeated in twenty-four hours, and again in a day or two, since the negative phase may be very short or may be delayed. The results are more certain if a larger dose of tuberculin is given, but this is not always desirable. The following cautions should be noted. The determination of the opsonic index is by no means an easy process, and even in skilled hands there is necessarily a certain amount of error. As ordinarily performed this may amount to lo per cent, or so, though with great pains it may be reduced somewhat: hence no importance should be attached to small differences. Secondly, the opsonic index affords no clue to the locality or the size of a tuberculous lesion. In the third place, the opsonic index does not, at present, afford any indication as to prognosis. THE FREEZING POINT OF THE BLOOD OR SERUM. The freezing point of the blood or serum is sometimes estimated, the results obtained being thought to indicate the functional activity or the reverse of the kidneys, and to allow an estimate of the danger of an opera- tion to be formed when these organs are affected. The freezing point of any watery solution is an index of its molecular concentration : the greater the number of molecules it contains the lower the freezing point. In health the kidneys excrete the salts which occur in the blood, passing them into the urine, so that the freezing point of the blood should remain constant and at a higher level than that of the urine. In disease this may not occur, and one of the most constant signs of functional imperfection of the kidney is a lowering of the freezing point of the blood due to a retention of salts, etc., which should be eliminated by the kidneys. In health the blood usually freezes at — 0'56° C, and when this is the case we may, as a general rule, deduce that the function of elimination is being performed efficiently. Thus, when one kidney is known to be diseased, and the blood freezes at this point, it is highly probable that the remaining kidney is sound, and capable of acting as an eliminator for the whole of the body. On the other hand, a decided fall in the freezing point (to — o '6° or lower) is more hkely to indicate a lesion of both kidneys, and a danger of uremia after nephrectomy, or the performance of any severe surgical operation. Unfortunately, however, these results, though generally true, are subject to numerous exceptions ; thus the freezing point of the blood may be lowered in any condition leading to cyanosis, in severe anaemia, diabetes, etc. Further, if the blood is hydraemic to begin with, renal disease may lower the freezing point until it reaches the normal, and the examination of the blood will show no deviation from the healthy condition.