197 ERYSIPELAS may end fatally during the second week from pyrexia and general exhaustion. VARIETIES.—This disease is seldom seen nowadays, and the form usually met with is the mild one which ends in recovery. In one type the disease reappears frequently but with ever-decreasing constitutional disturbance; this is sometimes spoken of as habitual erysipelas. Formerly a number of other varieties were described, such as wandering erysipelas in which a patch of erysipelas appeared at one spot, and died away, and fresh patches appeared elsewhere, constitutional symptoms showing themselves as each fresh patch appeared. The most serious forms were described as phlegmonous and gangrenous erysipelas ; in these, in addition to the symptoms already described, there was suppuration in the subcutaneous tissues, which sometimes took the form of an abscess, but more commonly manifested itself as a diffuse cellulitis; occasionally the skin and the deeper tissues sloughed. In these cases the patient soon passed into a typhoid state, and often died. It is a question whether these gangrenous and phlegmonous varieties of erysipelas are due solely to the erysipelas organism, or whether there is a mixed infection, tlie erysipelas organism growing in the skin, and the streptococcus pyogenes in the deeper structures. The majority of investigators incline to the opinion that the streptococcus pyogenes and the erysipelas organism are identical and are only slightly modiiied in virulence; according to this theory, phlegmonous erysipelas is regarded as a more virulent form than the one commonly seen nowadays. In favour of the theory of a mixed infection is the fact that diffuse cellulitis may occur without cutaneous erysipelas, and vice versa ; besides this, there are points in the bacteriological history of the organisms which seem to indicate a distinct though slight difference. Pathology.—The streptococcus which causes the disease spreads in the cutaneous lymphatic vessels, and is found in the skin immediately beyond the edge of the blush ; the organisms are always a little in advance of the visible disease. At the edge of the blush the lymphatic vessels are found full of micrococci and of leucocytes, while nearer the centre of the redness the micrococci have disappeared and only leucocytes are found. Erysipelas therefore presents one of the best examples of phagocytosis, the phagocytes attacking and destroying the organisms and putting a stop to their action. This view may possibly help to explain the results of treatment. TREATMENT.—The prophylaxis is extremely important, and, as erysipelas is never met with in aseptic wounds, it is of the utmost importance to secure the asepsis of all wounds. General.—The mild form usually met with nowadays generally subsides spontaneously. Provided that there be no internal complica- tion, such as visceral disease, it suffices to administer a saline piugative (sulphate of magnesia 5ij-iv) and to see that the bowels are afterwards kept open daily with drachm doses of the same drug in warm water