CHRONIC ABSCESS 235 Incision and Scraping.—Another metliod must be employed when the parts in front of the abscess wall prevent it from being laid freely open, as, for example, in the case of a psoas abscess, or when it is essential to avoid a large scar. In such cases it is usual to make a small opening sufficient to admit the finger, or the finger and a sharp spoon, and then to wash out the contents of the abscess with sterilised salt solution by means of Barker's flushing spoon. The opening in the skin must be large enough to allow of the free escape of the fluid by the side of the spoon, which is pushed into all the recesses of the abscess, and is used for scraping the wall when all the fluid part has been evacuated. The whole of the wall is scraped gently but systematically. Special care should be taken to use the instrument very gently in any direction in which important fragile structures such as the peritoneum or large veins are likely to be encountered. After the spoon is withdrawn, the cavity is wiped out with fragments of rough sponge. Pieces as large as can be forced into the cavity are used ; they not only soak up any of the flushing solution which remains, but their rough surface scrapes off any tags of cheesy material which still adhere, and so completes the cleansing of the cavity. About half an ounce of the iodoform and glycerine emulsion is then injected, and the skin wound is closed by sutures, which also include the opening through the fascia. The use of the iodoform emulsion is not essential, as some cases seem to do as well without it ; on the whole, however, better results seem to follow when it is employed. The skin incision usually heals by first intention, and in a certain number of cases no re-accumulation takes place. Sometimes, however, it is found that deep-seated fluctuation is present after a few weeks; and this is not remarkable, since the actual cause of the abscess—namely, the bone disease—is but seldom accessible to radical treatment {i.e. the re- moval of the primary focus). When accumulation takes place, and is found to be increasing, a fresh incision should be made into the sac and the fluid again evacuated. The sac will be much smaller than it was originally, and the fluid of a brown serous character containing iodine and iodoform. The sac wall should again be scraped, flushed out, and injected with iodoform and glycerine as at the first operation. In many cases two operations suffice to cure even a large abscess of this kind. In some, however, three or even more are requisite, but in the majority of cases the patient can be got well in this way much more quickly and much more certainly than by the old plan of draining the abscess. Some- times the wound gives way after healing by first intention and a small sinus forms in the scar. Should this happen, the wound must be opened up, scraped out thoroughly and stitched up as before, after the sinus has been dissected out. Unless this be done, the sinus may take as long to heal as it did when the old plan of simple drainage was employed. Even should a sinus form again, the same procedure should be repeated. The old plan of aspiration of an abscess, which was in common use