TUMOURS COMPOSED OF MORE COMPLEX TISSUES 261 ing upon these minute nfevi is a good one if they be small, superficial, and in a suitable situation. The Actual Cmitery.—This is preferable to the use of chemical caustics in the majority of cases, and yields very satisfactory cosmetic results on the whole when it is desired to obliterate a small spider naevus with a central red spot from which a number of small vessels radiate in stellate fashion. When the ntevus is situated upon the face the patient should be placed in such a position that the surgeon has complete control of the head, so that if the child moves there is no risk of cauterising normal tissues. The head is steadied between the surgeon's wrists so that his hands and the patient's head move to- gether, and a fine electro- cautery heated almost to white- ness is plunged rapidly into the centre of the naevus and withdrawn immediately. There is no need to administer an anaesthetic to these cases, as the pain is momentary and quite slight. The puncture can be sealed with a drop of col- lodion or fiuar's balsam. More extensive naevi require the administration of an anaes- thetic. In these cases the cautery should be at a dull red heat and should be thrust com- pletely through the naevus. When naevi treated thus are situated over important struc- tures—e.g. a naevus of the eyelid—it is important that the point of the cautery should not penetrate too deeply. To obviate this, the skin containing the nsvus may be pinched up between the left thumb and forefinger so as to draw the ntevus away from the subjacent structures. It is easy to ascertain when the cautery has passed through the dermis, as this structure offers a definite resistance which ceases suddenly as penetration occurs. The cautery punctures should be about a quarter of an inch apart over the whole surface of the naevus; care being taken to destroy any vessels that can be seen entering or leaving it. If the naevus be too extensive for the punctures to be made all over its surface, they should be made around its margin, especially at Fig. 64.—Multiple N.ivi in Course of Treat- ment BY THE LrALVANO-CAUTERV. Towards the um- bilicus complete cicatrisation of the naevus has been obtained. Further down on the abdominal wall another naevus shows the punctate cicatrices caused by the first application of the cautery.