TUMOURS 240 pure nitric acid in the centre of the wart ; this produces a brisk effervescence accompanied by destruction of the whole warty tissue. Although the chemical action seems to be extremely violent the method is not particularly painful, the carbolic acid acting to a certain extent as a local anaesthetic. The CO2 freezing method (see p. 262) recom- mended for naevi is also of great value. In treating crops of warts it very often happens that when one or two of the largest are cured the rest disappear spontaneously. Should these methods prove ineffectual, the wart must be removed by the knife. When papillomata are sessile and are situated on the skin, it is not sufficient to clip them off, as they will certainly grow again ; it is necessary to excise their bases. When the papillomata are pedunculated, and the pedicle is narrow, it is best to clip them off with scissors, and to paint the cut surface for a few days in succession with salicylic collodion (see p. 239). The papillomata of the bladder or rectum must be removed by special operations, which are described in their appropriate places. Horns.—In these cases the epithelium remains heaped up in masses over the surface of the papillae, and becomes hard and stuck together by some glutinous material. On breaking off the horn, a broad papillo- matous base is left which must be dissected away ; unless this be done, the horn will grow afresh. Corns.—A corn is due essentially to intermittent pressure, and as a rule removal of the pressure will lead first to the peeling off of the hard core of the corn, and subsequently to its complete disappearance. Salicylic collodion {vide supra) applied after paring the corn, will facilitate its disappearance ; a corn, however, needs more frequent paring than a wart. A more certain effect may be obtained by shaving down the epithelium, and applying a thick bunion plaster so that its centre is over the base of the corn. The hole in the centre of the plaster is then filled up with pure salicylic acid and a piece of ordinary plaster is put on over the bunion plaster to keep the salicylic acid in place. The acid thus acts directly upon the base of the corn and is very effectual. The applica- tion should be renewed daily as long as may be necessary, any epi- dermis that can be picked away easily being removed before each fresh application. Adenomata.—These tumours occur in connection with glands, and in structure are similar to that of the gland in which they develop. It is uncertain whether they originate in a hyperplasia of the epithelium or of the connective tissue, but as a rule so much fibrous tissue is present that the term fibro-adenoma is more appropriate ; if the tissue be very embryonic the term myxo-adenoma is used. The adenomata are usually encapsuled, and, when embedded in the substance of the organ, can generally be shelled out of their capsule without any tendency to recurrence.