OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT 119 by having the top of the table composed of a series of tubes through which hot water circulates, but this necessitates a special table. An equally good plan is to have a large copper tray about six inches deep and five feet in length, with a metal top, and tubes at the ends for the en- trance and exit of hot water, which is kept circulating through it during the operation. Where this is not available, its place may be supplied by a water-bed or large water-pillow filled with water at a temperature of 110° F. The latter is frequently used in operations upon children, although it is not so steady as the hot-water table. Whenever there is any chance of the flannel covering the hot-water bottle or pillow becoming wet during the operation, mackintosh should be interposed between this and the patient's skin ; otherwise the wet flannel will scald the patient. This is not uncommon in operations upon small children lying upon india-rubber hot-water bags. Hot-water bottles are, however, always dangerous and should never be used when it is possible to keep the patient's temperature up in any other way. The table should be covered with warm blankets, on which the patient lies, and the aseptic towels around the area of operation (see Chap. V.) are wrung out of hot lotion and changed at intervals. When the arrangements above described are not available, the room should be kept as warm as one can work in. All lotions used during the operation should be at about a temperature of 100° F. If coils of intestine escape in abdominal operations they should be replaced at once, or should be covered with warm aseptic cloths or sponges frequently renewed, if it be necessary to keep them outside the body. In infants, an incision large enough to admit only two fingers is relatively extensive compared with the size of the abdomen and it often happens that a sudden straining movement will eject practically the whole of the small intestines. These can be satisfactorily protected from injury and kept warm by allowing a constant stream of hot saline solution to run over them either from an irrigator or poured out of a jug. Rapidity of operation is also important in cases in which shock is likely to occur. The steps of the operation should be carefully planned before- hand, and all necessary preparations made before the anaesthetic is administered, so that no time is lost afterwards. When it is important to reduce the time that the patient is under the anesthetic to a minimum, all preliminaries, such as shaving, purification of the skin, arrangement of aseptic towels, etc., should be carried out before the aucesthetic is com- menced. Loss of blood should also be avoided as far as possible. The management of the ansesthetic has been specially referred to in the section dealing with Anaesthetics. The administration of strychnine before the commencement of the operation is of great value in the prevention or diminution of shock. In an adult, a thirtieth of a grain should be injected subcutaneously just before the operation, or while the patient is being placed under the