ACQUIRED CLUB-FOOT 319 being more precise in its action and less likely to do serious damage. With forcible wrenching alone the bruising is very severe. In the third and most severe class of cases tlie treatment will vary with the amount of deformity present, but as a rule division of tendons, fasciae, and ligaments, and the subsequent use of manipulations and retentive apparatus are not sufficient, and extensive operations, in- volving division of numerous ligaments and other structures about the foot, or in some cases even the removal of part or the whole of the affected bones may be called for. The precise indications for the various opera- tions are given in connection with the different forms of club-foot. It is in the severe and long-standing cases of equino-varus that these pro- cedures are most often called for, but they are sometimes found necessary in other varieties of club-foot when the deformity has been allowed to remain uncorrected for a long time. GENERAL POINTS IN THE TREATMENT OF ACQUIRED CLUB-FOOT. The treatment will vary considerably with the particular case under notice. For example, in the paralytic form, in which the deformity is primarily due to paralysis of one group of muscles, with unbalanced action of the opposing groups, the object of treatment must be to main- tain the foot in its proper position, and to restore the functions of the paralysed muscles, or replace them by suitable apparatus. In the early stages of this form it is always easy to correct the deformity without using any force and without putting any muscles, tendons, or fibrous structures on the stretch. When the deformity has been allowed to persist for a considerable time, however, shortening of certain muscles and fibrous structures takes place, and these must be divided before the foot can be brought into position. In the early stage, therefore, the means, already indicated (see p. 314), for maintaining and improving the nutrition of the paralysed muscles must be adopted ; it will be necessary in addition to employ some apparatus to prevent i-ecurrence of the de- formity. When a secondary contraction of muscles, fasciee, or ligaments has taken place, tenotomy will be called for, and then the treatment is much the same as in the second group of congenital cases (see p. 318). In the spastic cases the treatment is directed first to the cure of the spasm, which unfortunately is not easy. Tenotomy is often of benefit especially in the early stages ; division of a tight tendon not only enables the foot to be restored to its proper position, but seems to have a curative effect upon the spasmodic condition itself. Care is neces- sary in the after-treatment to prevent undue elongation of the uniting mediimi. When the deformity is due to eieatPicial contraction, {e.g. after ulcers