DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES 275 and generally for a year. There is a strong tendency to the formation of a cicatricial ridge along the palmar surface of one finger, and consequent contraction, in spite of the spHnt. When several fingers are united, it is well to separate only two at a time, and to allow some weeks, or even months, to elapse before proceed- ing to separate a second pair. There is a distinct advantage in doing the operation at an early age, because the webbing of the fingers un- doubtedly interferes with their growth ; a finger that has been freed grows faster than one that is still webbed. At the same time, the hand in infants is so small and so difficult to fix that it will generally be found best to wait until the child is a year or two old and the fingers have attained a length and size more suited for the application of splints. When the Bones are United.—When there is bony union between the adjacent phalanges, treatment is much more difficult and sometimes it is doubtful whether it is advisable to interfere with them at all. When the deformity is marked, and the finger is not so useful as it might be were the deformity overcome, an attempt may be made to remedy it. The only proceeding that offers any prospect of success, however, is to remove a portion of the welded bones so as to obtain one good finger instead of two bad ones; if any attempt were made to separate the fingers, there would not be sufficient covering for the two raw surfaces. When, however, one bone has been dissected out, the skin covering the portion of the finger taken away will be sufficient to cover the raw surface left, and there may be less deformity and greater mobility. The precise steps to be adopted in operating must, however, depend on the condition present, and cannot be described here. HAMMER TOE. By the term ' hammer toe ' is understood a deformity of wliich the essential element is flexion of the first interphalangeal joint of the toe; there is also generally a secondary hyper-extension of the first phalanx on the metacarpal bone. The terminal phalanx usually retains its normal position, but in bad cases it may be in the same straight fine with the second, so that the last two phalanges have their long axes directed vertically downwards, and the tip of the toe comes into contact with the ground. The terminal joint may be hyper-extended, however, the result being that the toe resembles the letter Z (see Fig. 74). The deformity usually affects the second toe, but it may affect others. Hammer toe may be congenital, and is then often hereditary; in these cases it is not usually marked until the patient begins to walk. It may also be acquired, and the chief cause is the presence of the condition known as hallux valgus; the great toe is adducted, overrides and