498 EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD They form about 0-4 per cent, of the leucocytes, and are decidedly in- creased only in spleno-medullary leucocythsemia. In disease we may meet with (6) myelocytes, which are of variable size, but commonly large, and have single circular or kidney-shaped nuclei which stain faintly, and fine pink-staining granules in their pro- toplasm. Similar cells, but with large granules, are called (7) Eosinophile myelocytes, and are only met with in spleno-meduUary leucocythsemia. The lymphocytes are greatly increased in lymphatic leucocythsmia, where they may form 99 per cent, of a total count of 60,000-150,000 leucocytes per cubic millimeter or more. They are increased to a less extent, and often only relatively, so that the total count is not raised, in a variety of diseases, the most important of which are pernicious anaemia, tuberculosis (when not complicated by suppurative processes), typhoid fever, etc. A decrease is usually only apparent, and due to an increase of other cells, most commonly the polynuclears. An increase of the polynuclears is the most characteristic mark of acute inflammation, occurring especially in suppuration, where they form 85-95 per cent, of the whole. This is of great importance (i) as confirmatory of the results obtained by the estimation of the number of leucocytes per cubic millimetre, and (2) because it occurs when the leucocytosis is absent from any cause, e.g. in very severe septic processes. They are also increased in other conditions, the most important of which are spleno-medullary leucocythaemia, haemorrhage, and malignant disease. An increase of eosinophiles occurs in many diseases, the most important of which to the surgeon are those dependent on animal parasites, e.g. trichinosis, bilharzia disease, cysticercus and hydatid disease. Thus in cases in which the diagnosis lies between abscess and hydatids of the liver an eosinophilia, even though slight, points to the latter disease. There is also a large increase of these cells in spleno-medullary leuco- cythaemia. The following special cases need mention : In enlargement of the spleen a blood examination may be necessary to exclude spleno-medullary leucocythaemia, which is characterised by an enormously high total count (averaging some 400,000 per cubic milli- meter and showing the presence of myelocytes, eosinophile myelocytes, and large mast cells, and an increased number of polynuclears. In enlargement of lymphatic glands the examination of the blood enables lymphatic leucocythaemia to be diagnosed or excluded. It is characterised by a large increase of the total leucocytes due entirely to an increase in the lymphocytes, which may be mostly of large size. In some cases, which are apparently of this nature, this lymphocytosis may occur without an increase in the total number. In Hodgkin's disease there is no characteristic change, and the blood may be normal until a