288 DEFORMITIES pain, are liable to attacks of inflammation, which cripple the patient still further. If the foot be looked at from the dorsal surface, when the toes are flexed towards the sole, the heads of the metatarsal bones in the neighbourhood of which the pain is most marked are seen to be on a lower level than the rest. This is apparently due to relaxation of the ligaments that bind the heads of the metatarsal bones together. The pain is sup- posed by Morton to be due to a lateral compression of the foot, which causes the head of the fifth metatarsal to compress branches of the external plantar nerve against the head of the fourth. Although this explanation may be the correct one in some cases, in others the pain is probably due to the undue pressure exerted upon the sole by the head of the bone which has become displaced downwards, from its normal position. The affection not infrequently foUows upon injury, but cases un- doubtedly occur in which there is no history of any injury, and these are generally the ones in which narrow boots are worn and bring about lateral compression of the metatarsal bones. The condition is often associated with flat foot, and sometimes the whole trouble disappears when the de- pression of the arch is corrected. It occurs more frequently in women than in men. TREATMENT.—This may be divided into palhative and operative, the majority of cases yielding to the former. Palliative Treatment.—The first essential is that the patient should wear properly fitting boots. They should be sufficiently wide and should everywhere afford proper support to the foot. They should be made to a plaster cast of the foot, as it is othemise difficult to combine proper support with avoidance of undue pressure. In addition, a Whitman's spring (see p. 303) should be worn to support the arch of the instep, and the tiptoe exercises recommended for flat foot (see p. 302) may with advantage be prescribed so as to strengthen the structures in the sole. Massage is of value, and douching the foot is also useful. An anodyne application such as belladonna, to the sole of the foot, may be called for to relieve pain. The majority of the early cases treated in this manner yield satisfactory results. Operative Treatment.—In bad cases, however, in which the affection has lasted a long time, no permanent benefit results from any of these procedures, and it is necessary to have recourse to operative interference. The procedure which has yielded the best results up to the present time is removal of the head of the metatarsal bone which is unduly depressed ; in most cases this is the fourth, but sometimes it is necessary to remove the head of the third as well. The operation is performed by making a longitudinal incision upon the dorsal aspect of the foot over the head of the affected metatarsal bone, parallel to but on one side of the extensor tendon. The edges of the incision are retracted, the tendon is hooked aside, and the soft parts are separated from the head of the bone with a periosteum detacher. The neck of the metatarsal is then divided by