2l6 SYPHILIS to flow into the vein, pushing the blood before it, and the process is allowed to go on until the desired amount is injected. (It is an advantage to have the bottle a marked in divisions of 50 c.c. ; if this be done and if the bulb-full of the drug has been dissolved in 300 c.c. of normal saline solution as recommended, each division will correspond to ci gram of the powder.) When the requisite amount of the solution has run in, the bottle is again lowered untU blood appears in the tube e. The needle is then slid quickly out of the vein, and an antiseptic pad applied for a few hours. The whole process should not take more than a quarter of an hour, exclusive of the preparation of the solution. If an ordinary transfusion apparatus be used, the same device of lowering and raising the vessel will serve to avoid the injection of the solution into the tissues. The operation is often followed by nausea and vomiting (which may usually be controlled by a mustard leaf to the epigastrium), diarrhoea, a temperature of 101° F. or more, and occasionally by pallor and syncope. In many cases, however, no untoward effects are seen, and in any case they are of short duration. There should be no local trouble if the injection be properly given. In stout patients without prominent veins it may be necessary to expose the vein by dissection. The doses usually recommended are 0-5 gram for a male adult, 0-4 for a female. The dose for a child is much smaller, certainly not more than 3 centigrams ; and it is advisable, first, to treat the mother with the substance, and allow the child to take her milk, which has been found by Ehrlich and others to have a remarkable beneficent action. When, treated with an intravenous injection in this way, especially if followed up by a second in a day or two, or by an intramuscular injec- tion, or by both, a chancre should heal up in ten days at most, sometimes in much less, and other syphilitic manifestations in a proportionate time. There should be abundant evidence of improvement in two or three days. Very often there is a local inflammatory reaction around the lesions, recalling a tuberculin reaction ; such cases usually do well. The Treatment of Syphilis by Mercury and the Iodides.—Unlike the foregoing method, the treatment by these drugs varies according to the stage in which the affection is when treatment is begun, and, therefore, we shall discuss it in relation to the three clinical stages of the disease—namely, primary, secondary, and tertiary syphilis. It is interesting to note that, although the division between secondary and tertiary syphilis is somewhat arbitrary, more particularly in respect to the time-limit, a further justification for this division is found in the fact that the two drugs which exercise a specific influence on the disease—namely, mercurial preparations and the iodides of potassium and sodium—act differently in the two stages. During the early secondary stage the iodides have little or no effect in causing the disappearance