143 TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS This stitch is better than the running suture, which tends to pucker up the edges, if drawn tight, and may even cause gangrene of portions of them. If the dressings have been allowed to dry, the threads will be found stuck together with blood after a few days, and if any one of the stitches be too tight, it can be divided or removed without the rest of the stitch necessarily giving way. The best material for the continuous suture is silk, of the variety known as Chinese twist, varying in thickness accord- ing to the tension to which it is exposed. When there is no tension, quite a fine silk is sufficient ; but when there is much, it is better to use silk ABC Fig. 44.—Methods of finishing off the Button-hole Suture. A. As the needle emerges through the skin for the last time, the thread is twisted around it three or four times. The needle is then pulled through and the stitch pulled tight. A perfectly satisfactory knot can be thus made with a little practice. B. Shows a method very com- monly used. When the needle is passed through the skin for the last time it is not brought out inside the loop from the last stitch ; the free end shown on the left-hand side of the incision is taken in one hand, the loop shown on the right-hand side in the other, and the two are then tied together. This is a simple method, but causes a httle puckering. C. Shows a useful method that may be employed to obviate this puckering. In passing the needle tlurough the skin for the last time it is made to go in the opposite direction, i.e. in the diagram from left to right, whereas the rest of the stitch is made from right to left. The free end shown on the left-hand side of the incision is then held in one hand while traction is made upon the needle with the other ; the result is that the last loop is drawn tight and the wound is closed. The free end on the one side and the loop—or the two free ends if the needle be cut off—on the other are then tied together. This is a very simple and effective plan. of medium thickness, as the fine thread cuts out very quickly under these circumstances. This suture can also be made with horsehair or silI-:worm- gut ; the strands of the latter are, however, only about fourteen inches long, and several must be used for a long incision. They are non- absorbent, and are therefore very useful in septic wounds. Removal of Sutures.—Button sutures should be removed in about five or six days. When there are also silver ' relaxation stitches,' and the wound is dressed for the purpose of removing the buttons, the con- tinuous silk suture uniting the edges of the wound can as a rule be taken out at the same time, only the deep silver stitches being left. The period at which these latter should be removed must depend on the firmness of union between the edges ; generally they can all be taken out at the end