DEFORMITIES 382 It seems reasonable to treat an osteotomy as an ordinary fracture, and therefore ordinary splints will be found sufficient to keep the limbs steady after the wound has healed and the sutures have been removed, especially Fig. 130.—Limb put up in splint after Osteotomy for Genu Valgum. The large pad (rt) over the inner condyle on the one side, and the two thick ones (6) and (c) over the outer malleolus and the great trochanter respectively, on the other side, are shown. The large pad over the front of the knee to prevent flexion is not shown, while, for the sake of clearness, the dressing to the osteotomy wound has been omitted. as the fractured surfaces are broad, the line of division transverse, and the periosteum often intact in places. At the the end of ten days, the splints should be removed at least once daily for massage, and the knee joint should be moved passively at the end of a fortnight. In a month from the operation, the splints may be left off, and the child allowed to move the legs in bed. No walking, sitting or stand- ing should be allowed for at least six weeks from the time of operation and only then should the rickety condition of the bone have passed away completely. When the osteotomy has been done upon a young adult in whom there is some doubt as to whether the bones have be- come consolidated, it is well for the patient after the operation to wear some form of apparatus to exert pressure upon the deformity ; this may consist of an outside iron fastened to the pelvis above and the heel of the boot below, and fur- nished with hinges opposite the hip, knee, and ankle joints (see Fig. 131); it is gene- rally furnished with a band or sling to draw the knee outwards against the iron. This apparatus can be made of light material and should be worn for six months after the operation. Those forms of genu valgum arising in connection with diseases other than rickets must have the primary cause treated on the lines appropriate for the treatment of the particular disease to which they are due. Should Fig. 131.—Outside Irons for use AFTER Operation for Genu Valgum in Adults. (Erichsen.)