128 WOUNDS blood-vessels are also developed very much in the same manner as in the embryo. As time goes on, the fibrous tissue between the two cut surfaces becomes more perfect and contracts, thus shortening the incision and temporarily depressing its surface ; the newly formed vessels also tend to disappear. Later on, this new fibrous tissue becomes converted into areolar tissue; when it is situated in the middle of fat, fat-cells form in it, and the scar therefore becomes looser. About the second or third day, the epithelial cells on the surface begin to spread over this narrow line of young cellular tissue, so that there is generally a continuous layer of epithelium from one edge of the wound to the other at the end of the fourth or fifth day. This process is termed primary union, or healing by first intention, and it ought to be aimed at in all cases, because there is no general disturbance, no fever, and no septic trouble in connection with it, while the resulting scar is small and, after a time, almost unnoticeable. Conditions Inimical to Healing by First Intention.—In order to obtain healing by first intention (which should always be aimed at in incised wounds), it is essential, in the first place, to bring the edges of the wound together, and, in the second place, to avoid anything which may lead to inflammation. Among the minor conditions which tend to prevent union by first intention are, first, mechanical irritation of the part, more especially in the form of movement either of the part itself or of the muscles beneath it ; secondly, the presence of unduly tight stitches ; thirdly, the irritation of dressings, or of the chemical substances contained in them or used as lotions. The most common cause, however, which leads to the failure of union by first intention or by blood-clot, and which exposes the patient to the various serious risks to be men- tioned later, is the entrance of micro-organisms and their growth either in the material on the surface of the wound or in^ the tissues themselves. The organisms which act in this way are essentially the pyogenic organisms, and they consist of various kinds of micrococci, known as the pyogenic cocci, the chief of them being the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, staphylococcus pyogenes albus, and streptococcus pyogenes. These organisms growing in a wound peptonise the materials on the surface, and so lead to the destruction of the original tissue, while they produce chemical substances of great potency, which act locally by causing, first, granulation, and subsequently suppuration, and, generally, by setting up febrile disturbance. These micro-organisms are constantly found on the surface of the skin and mucous membranes, more particularly in parts where the skin is moist—as, for example, in the perineum, the axilla, between the toes, and in the dirt under the nails. They grow in the old epithelium on the surface of the skin around the hairs, and they also appear to penetrate into the orifices of the sebaceous and hair follicles. They vary in virulence, and the different kinds vary also in their mode of action. For example.