TUMOURS OF THE CELLULAR TYPE 253 blue, firm and elastic, or soft. They occur especially in the phalanges and metatarsal bones, where they are often multiple; in the jaw, in the pelvis, or about the epiphyses of long bones. Sometimes also they occur in soft parts, such as the parotid, the submaxillary gland, and the testicle ; but it is a question whether chondromata occurring in the soft tissues are not really chondrifying sarcomata rather than true chondro- mata. At any rate these timrours are generally malignant in the testicle, and give rise to secondary deposits in the lungs, and the same chondri- fication takes place there. Chondi^omata may undergo calcification or fatty or mucous degeneration, leading to the formation of cysts. They grow slowly and cause trouble chiefly by pressure, and they are benign tumours, with the exception of the variety met with in the soft parts already mentioned. Treatment.—When the tumour is situated in the soft parts, the best treatment is extirpation ; the capsule should be removed because of the possible malignant nature of the tumour. When the growth springs from a bone, it may be sufficient to chip it away freely, or, if situated in the interior, to scrape it out without performing amputation ; this may be done even in the multiple chondromata of the fingers. Care must be taken to do this as completely as possible, because recurrence is apt to take place from lobules of the cartilage being left behind. Should this happen, enucleation may be repeated, or it may be necessary to amputate if the bone be so much destroyed by the growth as to be useless, as may be the case in a phalanx, for example. The Osteomata are composed of bony tissue, and are met with in two chief forms. The rarer of these is the hard or ivory osteoma or exostosis, which is a flat sessile bony mass chiefly occurring on the vertex of the skull, on one of the bones of the face, or in the external auditory meatus ; it is of ivory hardness, and is formed of dense compact bone, containing lacunae and canaliculi, but without proper Haversian canals. The other form is the spongy exostosis, which resembles cancellous bone in structure and generally arises in the neighbourhood of the epiphyseal lines. During the period of growth these spongy exostoses are covered with a layer of cartilage, and it is from this part of the tumour that growth takes place. As a rule this cartilage quickly ossifies at the point where the tumour joins the bone from which it arises, and then growth ceases there whilst it goes on at the periphery of the tumour ; hence these growths are usually pedunculated, and they vary in size and are nodular on the surface. Treatment.—The treatment of the spongy exostoses is to cut through thvk base and remove them; if this be done where growth has ceased and cartilage does not exist, recurrence will not take place. Before antiseptic treatment was employed, many patients developed a suppura- tive osteomj^elitis after operation, and either died or had to lose the limb ; great care must be taken in the aseptic management of the wound.