ADMINISTRATION OF NITROUS OXIDE 449 Cases Suitable.—Broadly speaking, anyone can take nitrous oxide with comparative safety, but I object myse]f to giving it to very young children. It is better, perhaps, not to administer it within an hour or so of a full meal, and care should be taken that the bladder is empty, especially in children, but otherwise, no special prepapation is needed, beyond that which is necessary to ensure free respiration (see p. 445). It is most frequently given with the patient sitting straight up in a chair, with the head in such a position that the tongue does not slip back over the glottis ; it may, of course, be given with the patient recumbent. For the cases in which it is specially applicable, see sec. (i), p. 447. In dental work, and in operations about the mouth, it is usual to insert a prop of wood or cork between the teeth before applying the facepiece. Fig. 197.—Nitrous Oxide Apparatus. A, Steel bottle s containing compressed gas in liquid form ; B, Reservoir bag ; E, Facepiece ; F, Footpiece for regulating escape of gas from the bottles into reservoir bag; C, Three-way stop-cock with inspiratory and expiratory valves. Although in some respects an ideal anaesthetic, there are many limita- tions to its use; the most important of these is that, owing to its feeble anaesthetising power, it is difficult to maintain the narcosis for any length of time, and practically, therefore, its administration is limited to cases in which the single application of the facepiece will suffice. On an average, this represents between 30 and 40 seconds, but, with a little careful mani- pulation and an occasional supply of air, provided that the operation is not upon the mouth, this time can easily be doubled or trebled. Another objection to it is, that the relaxation of the muscles is usually very transi- tory, and, when the inhalation is pushed, there may be actual spasm ; in moving stiff joints, therefore, it is of importance not to continue the inhalation for too long a time without admitting air. Apparatus and Administration.—To ensure the complete exclusion of air, the somewhat complicated apparatus, shown and described in Fig. 197, I. G G