ACUTE INFLAMMATION 7 in that situation, the leech should be placed on one side of the perineum, where pressure can be applied against the pubic bone. When leeches are required for affections of the eye, the best plan is to apply them over the temple where firm pressure can be easily apphed, if necessary. The hair should be shaved from the spot to which the leech is to be apphed, and the mark of the bite will be concealed when the hair grows again. It is also well to apply leeches early in the day, so that bleeding may be readily observed, as serious loss of blood has occurred through unnoticed continuous oozing through the night. Another method of blood-letting employed in inflammation is cupping. For the purpose of actually removing blood, wet cupping is used, but in some cases a good deal of benefit is derived from the employ- ment of Dry Cupping, which consists in applying the cups without previous scarification of the skin, and therefore without any loss of blood to the patient. If the special cup sold for the purpose be not available, a small tumbler will answer equally well. The edge of this is oiled, and a piece of blotting-paper, dipped in methylated spirit, is wedged firmly in the bottom of the glass, and set on fire with a match ; if too small a piece be used, it may fall down and burn the patient's skin. When the paper has burned a few seconds the glass is inverted over the skin, which should have been sponged previously with warm water; as the heated air in the glass contracts on cooling, a partial vacuum is created, and the skin and subcutaneous tissues are drawn up into the cup, forming a prominent mass full of blood. Another method is the following: the edge of the cupping-glass is well greased and a few drops of spirit are poured into it. Tills is then lighted, blown out and relighted, the process being repeated until the vapour hghts with a sHght explosion. The cup with the lighted vapour is then rapidly apphed, the flame is extinguished instantly and the vacuum formed. A number of cups may be applied in this way and left on until the swelhng of the skin has increased to such an extent as to replace the air lost by the heat, when they become loose ; should it be desired to remove them before this has occurred, it can be easily done by insinuating the finger-nail beneath the rim of the cup, so as to allow the entry of a little air. When Wet Cupping is employed, the skin is first scarified in a number of places. This is best done with an ordinary scalpel, as the special in- strument sold for the purpose is difficult to keep aseptic and in working order. The incisions should only go deep enough to draw a little blood ; if the skin be cut through and the fat exposed, small pellets of the latter will plug the incisions and stop the bleeding. The object is to open as large a number of capillaries as possible. When the scarification has been done, the cup is applied directly over the scarified area as already described. The result is that blood is drawn out of the part until the place of the air is taken by the blood which issues from the skin ; the cup then gets loose and can be removed. If required, further bleeding