38o DEFORMITIES as a fulcrum ; with the other he grasps the limb lower down, using it as a lever, and jerks if the bone be hard, or bends slowly if the bone be soft, in an inward direction, when the bone will snap or bend as the case may be.' An Esmarch's bandage is not necessary during the operation, and no bleeding points require ligature. The line of section is everywhere above the ligaments of the joint, and no damage is likely to be done to the popliteal or femoral vessels, which are well out of the way of the osteotome, partly on account of the flexion of the knee, and partly by observing the directions given for the division of the bone. The only artery at all likely to be divided is the anastomotica magna, but that generally lies above and behind the incision. The superior internal articular artery is also avoided if the above directions be observed. It is rarely necessary to enlarge the wound in order to tie bleeding points ; there is, however, no objection to doing so, should it be necessary. Any vessel divided will generally stop bleeding, partly from its own contraction and partly as the result of pressure. There are some points in the operations which deserve special atten- tion. It is well to employ Macewen's osteotome (see Fig. 129), which differs from the ordinary chisel in that its cutting edge is bevelled on both sides instead of only on one ; a chisel is apt to jam in the bone instead of dividing it evenly. In young children the osseous section may be completed with a single osteotome, but in adults it is advisable to have two instruments of chfferent size; should the larger instrument become locked, it can be withdrawn and a smaller one slipped into its place and the section completed. The larger osteotome should be about two-thirds to three-quarters of an inch wide, the smaller about half an inch. When dividing the bone from the inner side, an endeavour must be made to keep the line of section parallel with that of the epiphysis, and therefore it should not be transverse to the long axis of the lower extremity. As a result of the displacement of the epiphyseal line, which is always present in genu valgum, the chisel will become buried in the external condyle if it be held trans- TiG. 129.—Macewen's ^ , n ^ • j- t -l j Osteotome. ..versely to the long axis of the limb, and may seriously damage the epiphyseal line. Osteotomy through an Incision on the Outer Surface of Thigh.—Some surgeons prefer to divide the bone from the outer side of the limb, and we most frequently do this operation as it somewhat facilitates the rectification of the deformity. The incision should be made just above the external condyle, and, after all the structures have been divided down to the bone, the osteotome is slipped in along the blade of the