DEFORMITIES 270 be amputated by an elliptical incision over the corresponding side of the digit. The flaps should be cut so as to avoid removing too much skin. If the supernumerary portion be sessile, this may be difficult and the safest way will be to make a free incision along one edge of it and split it open. The bone can then be dissected out, and it will be easy to trim up the soft parts so as to make flaps which meet satisfactorily. When the phalanx is not completely bifid it should be split down to its base with bone forceps and the desired half removed. After this has been done, the lateral liga- ments on the opposite side of the joint will usually require division, so that the part of the phalanx left may be brought into line with the rest of the finger. This should be done from the interior of the joint, which will already have been opened in removing the other half of the phalanx. Any other structures that are tense and resist re- position must also be divided. Immediately after the operation, a narrow splint may be applied to the opposite side of the finger to that on which the deflection Fig. 68.—Splint for the after- IS, and the phalanx drawu outwards towards TREATMENT OF BiFiD FiNGER. ; wficn thc wouud has healed, however, it is best to fix the digit and the wrist in a silicate bandage, which interferes less with the movement of the rest of the hand than the wooden splint does. This casing may be split along one side and should be removed at first once a week, and finally every day, so that massage and passive movement may be practised ; otherwise the joint may become very stiff. About six weeks after the operation the silicate case may be replaced by a metal splint, moulded to the wrist and forearm, and prolonged down along one side of the digit ; the terminal phalanx is strapped to this so as to keep it in proper position (see Fig. 68). V^EBBED DIGITS. This condition affects both toes and fingers, but in the former case it does not usually cause any inconvenience, and no treatment is necessary. The presence of a web between the fingers, however, is a great disadvan- tage ; it is unsightly, it prevents the proper separation of the digits, and it thus interferes greatly with the usefulness of the hand ; moreover, fingers so united do not develop as well as those which are free. In almost all cases, therefore, it is necessary to attempt to remedy the deformity. The cases of webbed finger vary considerably, both as to the extent