DIFFUSE CELLULITIS 35 with sterilised oil. The water-bath should only be used during the day ; during the night boric lint, wetted with hot boric lotion and covered with mackintosh, should be applied to form a fomentation. The bath requires constant attention in order to keep the water warm, to prevent it from overflowing, and to empty it from time to time, and, therefore, the patient would be unable to get proper sleep if the bath were employed during the night ; moreover, prolonged soaking in warm water does not improve the resisting power of the tissues. When the feet or the forearm are affected, a water-batli answers very well, but, in the latter case, the patient must be propped up nearly into the sitting posture. When the upper part of the hmb or the trunk is affected, the patient must lie in an ordinary bath arranged for the purpose. Unless the trunk be entirely submerged, special precautions must be taken, by fastening a blanket round the neck and covering in the bath, to prevent the patient taking cold. Care must also be taken to pre- vent tlie water in the bath be- coming foul, and this necessitates repeated changing of its contents. In the case of a bath in which the whole patient is immersed, the water should be changed completely three or four times a day, or more often if there is much foul matter discharged into it. When a limb-bath is used, the fluid must be changed every twelve hours and the bath scrubbed out. Another point of extreme importance, especially in hospital practice, is the necessity for thorough disinfection of the bath after use. The cases for which this method of treatment is employed are often the subjects of an infection with organisms of great virulence, some of which are possessed of great resisting powers. The best method of disin- fection is to immerse the bath in a large vessel, such as a copper and boil it ; if this be impossible, the bath should be filled nearly full of water, covered over, and supported over a gas-ring or powerful spirit-stove, so that the water and steam within it may thoroughly disinfect it. A mere superficial scrubbing with carbolic acid—the method that is most commonly employed—cannot be regarded with entire satis- faction. If sterilisation by boiling be inconvenient, the bath may be filled with a strong carbolic solution and allowed to stand for twenty- four hours. All baths should be of plain metal and not painted, varnished, or japanned. Moist dressings are often useful, but they are inferior to the use of irrigation or the warm bath. They consist of boric lint wrung out of Fig. 12.—Water-bath for the Hand and Fore- arm. The apparatus works more satisfactorily if it be furnished with a tap, as in Fig. ii.