WOUNDS 154 out by a skilled and experienced bacteriologist, with all the resources of a large and well-equipped hospital at his command. In private practice, it is almost impossible to carry it out in all its details ; moreover, it may prove positively harmful, since a single error may invalidate the whole proceeding, and no corrective is possible. Prolonged experience of the Listerian methods has failed to convince us of any danger in or objection to their use. Causes of Failure to secure Healing by First Intention.— When all the steps of the antiseptic method have been rigidly adhered to, heaUng by first intention almost invariably follows. When it does not occur, it is generally because some error has been committed in the management of the case, which has led to the occurrence of sepsis. Some- times, however, union may fail, at any rate m part, notwithstanding that the wound remains aseptic. The most common cause of this is the accumulation of serum in the deeper parts of the wound ; in these cases a drainage-tube should have been employed. If accumulation does take place, it is better to evacuate the serum at once than to wait in the hope that it will be absorbed ; doubtless absorption sometimes occurs, but in the majority of cases the serum will find its way out along the line of incision. When, therefore, a collection of fluid in the wound is found at the first dressing, time is saved by opening up the incision with a pair of sinus forceps, letting out the fluid and introducing a small dramage-tube, which should be left in for two or three days. The fluid is serum or altered blood, and the wound closes quickly when a drainage-tube is introduced and pressure applied outside. The importance of putting in enough sutures to prevent gaping of a wound, and of not tying them too tightly, has already been referred to (see p. 142). If too few sutures have been employed, the tension on any individual stitch may be so great that it will cut its way through the skm and allow a portion of the wound to gape. Movement of the part may also interfere with primary union. In other instances the cause of non-union may be that the knife has been held obliquely in making the skin incision ; the bevelled edge of skin thus left on one side often dies. In the majority of cases, however, when union fails, it is owing to the presence of sepsis ; and if suppuration occur in a wound made by the surgeon through unbroken skm, its occurrence must be ascribed to errors in carrying out the antiseptic technique and not to the method itself. Whether it be that the surgeon has used impure materials for his ligatures or stitches, or whether, as is commonly the case, he or his assistants have introduced the organisms with their hands, the cause of failure is the same. This fact cannot be too widely appreciated. Errors which may be made in carrying out the antiseptic treatment of wounds have already been described, but it is impossible to point out all the extraordinary mistakes which are committed daily. Unless the surgeon constantly bears in mind the fact that nothing that has not