521 TUBERCULIN IN DIAGNOSIS plan to protect the area with a vaccination shield or watch-glass (applied with strapping) for an hour or so. It is advisable, but not absolutely necessary, to perform a control scarification, using equal parts of glycerine and water instead of the tuberculin. In a negative case little or nothing will he seen in cither area next day. If a positive reaction occurs, the area to which tuberculin has Ijeen applied will become more or less severely inflamed. In the mildest grade of reaction there is redness and swelling of the scarified area, which appears as a flat red papule. In the next grade these appearances are not limited to the area to which the tuberculin has been applied, but spread for some distance in all directions. In the most severe reactions there is, in addition to tliis, vesiculation of the area scarified ; the control inoculation should show practically nothing. The reaction is almost absolutely trustworthy in children up to the age of twelve or fourteen, the only exception being in those suffering from general tuberculosis or tuberculous meningitis, in whom the tuber- culous infecti(.)n may be so severe that the reacting power is lost : in my experience this rarely happens until so late in the disease that the diagnosis is not for a moment in doubt. The reason why the test is not satisfactor}' in t)lder j eople is that tuberculous infections of a mild and latent type are extremely common in early life, and they appear to sensitise the tissues for many years after they are completely healed. But a \-ery marked reaction iisiiallv indicates a recent infection, even in an adult. Other forms of apjilying the test, such as Calinelfe's, in which diluted tuberculin is dropped on to the conjunctiva, where it causes a con- junctivitis, mild in the majority of cases, but sometimes very severe, are in use. They are not to be recommended, and Calmette's test (though it gives good results as regards the diagnosis) should not be emplo}-ed because of the danger to sight which it entails. The diagnostic use of tubercuhn by siihciitaneons iujeciiou should be reserved for those cases in which the cuti-reaction is inapplicable, and in which no morbid material in which a search for tubercle bacilli can be conducted can be obtained. llsing small doses it is probably devoid t)f danger except in cases with severe secondary infections, especially in i)hthisis. In surgical affections it may, as a rule, be applied without hesitation except perhaps in cases of deep sinuses and abscesses con- taminated with bacteria other than the tubercle bacillus. It should not be used where the temperature is irregular, nor in cases where there has recently been haemopt3'sis. Cardiac and renal diseases are also considered to be contra-indications. As regards dosage, there is as j-et no uniformity of opinion, Init tlie general tendency has been to reduce the amount given and to give several injections of gradually increasing doses. My own practice is to begin with jj-^^j^ c.c. of old tuberculin, and, if this causes no reaction.