320 DEFORMITIES or burns), plastic operations may be required. The nature of the opera- tion depends so much upon the amount and position of the contracted material that it is difficult to lay down any special rules. In these cases prevention is the only really satisfactory treatment, and therefore skin- grafting should be employed quite early in all ulcers or burns of any size about the lower third of the leg, and a suitable apparatus applied so as to prevent the contraction which is otherwise certain to foUow cicatrisation. When contraction has occurred and has lasted some time, the muscles become shortened and the fascia tense, and, even although the cicatrix which was the original cause of the trouble be dissected away, the mal-position of the foot is not relieved thereby, and some more radical operation must be undertaken for its rectification. Sometimes it is possible to dissect away the scar and the deep fascia, and to bring the foot into position by manipulations, wrenching or division of tendons or fasciae. Further, recurrence of the deformity may be avoided by employ- ing skin-grafting and keeping the foot in the over-corrected position during the healing process and for some time afterwards. In many cases, however, it is impossible to bring the foot into proper position in spite of free removal of the cicatrix and the fascia, followed by wrenching ; if the disability caused by the deformity be very great it will be necessary to resort to some more severe procedure, such as removal of portions of bones, or even amputation. In bad cicatricial deformities about the back and sides of the leg in the neighbourhood of the ankle joint, removal of an inch or two of the tibia and fibula will sometimes enable the foot to be brought to a right angle, or even actually into its normal position. The result, however, is not quite satisfactory as a rule for two reasons : in the first place the contraction extends to the ankle joint itself, so that the rigidity of the parts in the neighbourhood of the joint may stiU prevent the foot being brought into proper position, even when the leg has been shortened suffi- ciently to prevent the contracted tissues from displacing the foot; in the second place it is very difficult to get the foot into position after the bones of the leg have been divided, for the lower fragments of the tibia and fibula are so short that it is impossible to get a proper purchase upon them in order to move the ankle joint, and break down adhesions in it. This operation, however, has been done with marked benefit; the cases in which it is most likely to be successful are those in which there is a certain amount of movement in the ankle when the knee is fully flexed, so that the front of the foot can be brought up to some extent. In the majority of these cases the main deformity is that of talipes equinus, with possibly a little tendency to varus, and therefore it is more a question of getting the foot to a right angle than of overcoming any lateral displacement. This operation is done through a vertical incision along the anterior border of the tibia, and a second one along the outer aspect of the fibula;