WOUNDS i64 meninges, it is very important that these wounds should be disinfected thorouglily. When earth or grease has been extensively ground into the wound also, great pains must be taken in the disinfection, especially in compound fractures or wounds of joints. The treatment of these two important groups of accidental wounds is dealt with in connection with the affections of bones and joints. Wounds of the face, or of parts not covered by clothes or hair, are not so likely to be seriously infected if the wounds be incised ; if they be contused or lacerated, however, the blunt instrument which inflicted them may have carried in a quantity of dirt, and, in addition, the edges of the wound are usually bruised and of imperfect vitality. Treatment.—When the contamination is trifling, it may suffice to wash out the wound well with a i in 20 carbolic acid solution, but in wounds in which earth or dirt is obviously present the treatment must be much more thorough. No attempt should be made to obtain healing by first intention over the whole of the wound, and therefore the increased temporary irritation of the tissues by the strong antiseptics used for thorough disinfection is a matter of no consequence. In badly soiled cases, and especially in compound fractures, it is best to give the patient an anjesthetic, and then to scrub the wound thoroughly and methodically with a nail-brush and strong mixture (see p. 50), picking out dirt or foreign bodies with forceps, and clipping off portions of the tissues into which dirt is obviously ground. When this has been carried out, undiluted carbolic acid should be applied to the entire surface of the wound by means of a swab. In applying it, the margins of the wound in the skin should be avoided, as it may be necessary to stitchthemtogether after the purification has been effected ; all the deeper parts should be brought well into contact with the acid. When the wound in the deeper parts is larger than the opening in the skin, the latter must be freely incised, so that the whole extent of the wound is exposed. Treatment of a Scalp Wound.—When, however, there is no dirt, grease, or other foreign material ground into the wound, and the soiling of the tissues is very slight, the wound can be disinfected satisfactorily with strong mixture. A good example of a wound of this kind is a scalp-wound not involving the skull or pericranium, where hairs and scurf are present in the wound. We shall therefore take it as a type, and describe the treatment in detail. The scalp should be shaved for about an inch in all directions around the margins of the wound, and the shaved surface and the hair around disinfected with strong mixture as in disinfection of the skin elsewhere (see p. 100). After this, the entire surface of the wound is cleansed thoroughly and methodically with strong mixture, and any tags of injured tissue are removed. If the wound be an incised one, its edges may be approximated accurately by means of silkworm-gut sutures. Drainage should be employed in all cases lest the above measures should