DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINCiERS AND TOES 277 entirely uncovered. Hence, attempts made to straighten the joint forcibly, even after tenotomy of the flexor tendons, result in a disloca- tion of the second phalanx beneath the fust (see Fig. 75). The articular cartilage over the head of the first phalanx rapidly becomes converted into fibrous tissue, so that an imperfect joint must result, even if the joint surfaces be restored to their relative position. TREATMENT.—The treatment of this deformity is somewhat troublesome ; it may be carried out in three ways : (i) by means of mechanical appliances designed to prevent or overcome the flexion of the second phalanx ; in acquired cases this should be combined with treatment directed to the cure of the co-existing hallux valgus and also with division of the contracted ligaments or other structures around the joint ; (2) by removal of the head of the first phalanx so as to allow the phalanges to be brought straight ; and (3) by amputation. Appliances.—In the less advanced cases it is best to commence by dividuig the lateral and glenoid liga- ments of the first interphalangeal joint and (in the rarer cases caUing for it) the flexor tendon before employing mechanical ap- pliances ; a tenotome with a very small cutting blade should be used for the pur- pose. The line of the joint is defined by the finger-nail, and the point of the knife made to penetrate the skin at right- angles to the long a.xis of the toe at the junction of its dorsal and lateral aspects, and is pushed directly down into the joint, the lateral ligament to be divided being rendered tense by lateral pressure on the point of the toe. Slight move- ment of the knife generally divides the ligament immediately, when the process is repeated on the opposite side. The toe is then forcibly straightened and is secured to an apparatus designed to prevent recur- rence of the flexion. A convenient form is a T-shaped splint (see Fig. 76), the horizontal limb passing transversely beneath the sole about the level of the tarso-metatarsal articulations, and being secured there by means of a strap or band, while the vertical part e.xtends underneath the toe as far as its tip ; the splint should be well padded, and the toe strapped down to it. The treatment of the co- existing hallux valgus (see p. 281) should never be neglected, as it is most important to prevent the pressure of the first toe on the second. No permanent good is likely to accrue if the hammer toe be straightened and the hallux valgus left untreated. This procedure is only of use in the milder forms ; in the more severe ones, particularly those that are congenital in origin, the toe will not come straight even after division of the ligaments and tendons, for the Fig. 76.—t-Shaped Splint for Hammer Toe. A greater amount of pressure over the first interphalangeal joint may be obtained if necessary by inserting a pad of lint or wool between the tip of the toe and the splint.