WOUNDS ii6 the pipe wliich leads into the rectum, and it is always safer to conduct a few experiments with the apparatus and the exact length of tubing to be employed before actually using it. If no such apparatus be at hand, an ordinary douche can may be employed. This should be provided with a long delivery tube, which is coiled in a pail of hot water, before it is led into the bowel. The irrigator is filled with warm saHne solution, which is kept hot in the tube by the water in the pail. The temperature of the water in the pail is kept up by repeated additions of boiling water. It should be as hot as the hand can com- fortably bear. In another form of appa- ratus the slow absorption of the saline solution is obtained by keeping the surface of the fluid in the irrigator a very short distance (two or three inches) above the rectum. The rate of flow can be regulated by raising or lowering the irrigator. In this form of apparatus the delivery tube should be as short and as wide as possible so as to permit the passage of flatus. In all these forms of apparatus care is necessary to see that the flow is not impeded by kinking of or pressure upon the tube into the rectum. Two simple devices to obviate this inconvenience are : f^^^--'^^ to employ flexible gas-tubing at the vul- nerable points, or to lead the rubber- F.G. 32. - Electrical Apparatus fubiug thrOUgh fibrC-tubing of Suitable for maintaining the temperature of gize ) both withstand prCSSUre WCU. saline solution for continuous rectal . infusion. After an operation blood may be found oozing through the dressing. If this be not excessive, the bandage should be moistened with i in 20 carbolic solution and some wet gauze applied outside. If, however, the oozing continue and the wound become increasingly painful, or if the patient show signs of severe loss of blood, the dressing must be removed and the condition of affairs investigated. It will often happen on exposing the wound that no bleeding can be seen coming from between its margins or through the drainage tube, if one has been used; should this be the case, the wound should simply be re-dressed. The explanation is that the blood which was poured out during the first few hours after the operation has percolated through the dressing and given the false impression of a continuous haemorrhage. If it be obvious, however, that haemorrhage is still going on, some at least of the stitches must be un-