322 DEFORMITIES patient walks upon the balls of the toes, the phalanges of which are generally hyper-extended upon the metatarsals by the pull of the ex- tensor muscles ; locomotion is interfered with, partly by the increased length of the lower extremity and the small basis upon which the patient stands, and partly by the formation of callosities and bursae over the ends of the metatarsal bones, and the frequent attacks of inflammation and suppuration which their presence entails. In the milder cases the sole is applied normally to the ground when the patient stands, but in the act of walking the weight is borne mainly upon the front half of the foot, the heel being drawn up off the ground to a shght extent. This causes the patient to limp, and gives rise to pain in the back of the leg and about the heel which is due to stretching of the calf muscles. In the slighter cases and in those in which the deformity has lasted only a short time, the essential obstacle to the reduction of the deformity is the undue tension of the tendo Achilhs. When the deformity is more marked, and particularly when it has lasted for a considerable time, certain secondary changes take place. In very long-standing cases, especially those in which the deformity is extreme, the upper articular surface of the astragalus becomes altered both in shape and structure. The chief change takes place anteriorly, where the cartilage which normally covers it becomes converted into fibrous tissue, and that portion of the articular surface which the new position of the foot has forced out of contact with the lower end of the tibia becomes enlarged, so that it is impossible for the astragalus to pass back into position, even when all the causes producing the deformity have been removed. Another important change is contraction of the plantar fascia, which leads to an exaggeration of the arch of the instep, and ultimately pro- duces the condition known as talipes cavus, or hollow club-foot (see p. 334). This causes pain in the sole on walking, due to stretching of the shortened plantar fascia ; callosities also develop over the heads of the metatarsal bones and give rise to pain. In some cases also, permanent shortening of the long flexors of the toes and of the peroneus longus takes place, whilst, in addition, inversion of the foot at the mid-tarsal joint may occur, pro- ducing a condition of talipes equino-varus. TREATMENT.—From the point of view of treatment tahpes equinus may be divided into three classes, (i) The mild cases, in which the foot cannot be dorsi-flexed beyond a right angle, but in which there is no contraction of any other structures than the calf muscles. (2) The more severe cases, in which the heel is considerably drawn up and in which there is also secondary contraction of other structures, such as the plantar fascia, and possibly also some of the muscles already mentioned. (3) The most severe cases of all, in which the elevation of the heel is extreme, and in which the affection has lasted long enough for profound