SCOLIOSIS 419 least half an hour. The period for which the exercises are performed may be gradually increased, if they are doing good and no undue fatigue is produced. At the end of a month or six weeks from the commencement of the treatment, after the simple exercises designed to improve the muscular system generally have been thoroughly learnt and properly practised, the surgeon should ascertain what effect has been produced upon the curvature. Should it be found, as it probably will be in early cases, that the curvature has almost disappeared, and that the patient can hold herself erect without any trouble, little else is needed beyond continuance of the treatment already adopted. Should the curvature still persist, special exercises and ' postures' (see Figs. 144-5) designed to open out the curve will be required. The object of postural treatment is to restore the spine to its normal condition or even to over-correct the deformity slightly. The posture employed must be adapted to the individual case, only those being chosen which correct the deformity most completely. For example, the follow- ing postures will be found useful for a patient suffering from a dorsal curvature which is convex to the right and has compensatory cervical and lumbar curves which are convex to the left. The head is carried well back and held erect. The patient then puts the left hand at the back of the neck, with the fingers over the spine and the thumb resting about the middle of the sterno-mastoid, and thrusts the elbow forwards and to the left so as to draw the scapula away from the middle line. This exerts traction on the rhomboids and tends to pull the spines o f the dorsal vertebrae to the left. The patient's right hand is now placed upon the right side of the thorax, the fingers behind and the thumb forward, and makes firm pressure over the convexity of the dorsal curve, while the left arm and elbow are kept well forward. The body is now held rigidly in the improved position that this posture produces while an attempt is made to correct the lumbar curve by separating the right leg from the left by a short step outwards so as to depress the right side of the pelvis. The rotation of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae may now be corrected by taking a short step forward with the left foot so as to twist the lumbo- sacral joint to the right. While the patient maintains this position, flexion and extension of the spine should be carried out, the head being alternately flexed with the rest of the trunk and kept extended by fixing the eyes on a distant object. Another excellent posture is that in which the patient stands erect with the hands upon the ihac crests and makes forcible pressure downwards, as if to push a tight garment towards her knees. This makes traction upon the spine and straightens out the curves ; flexion and extension exercises are then carried out as before. These exercises are first performed as directed, and as the patient becomes accustomed to them and can perform them without fatigue it