488 LOCAL ANAESTHESIA drawn up into the syringe. The patient is placed upon the operating table, and is either raised to the sitting position, or is turned upon the same side of the body as the site of operation ; in either case the head must be thrust well downwards towards the knees, so as to open out the lumbar interspaces as much as possible. The skin over the lower lumbar region and the hands of the auEesthetist are washed and disinfected as for an operation. The puncture is usually made in the third interspace {i.e. between the third and fourth vertebrae), which may be best located by taking an imaginary line between the crests of the ilia ; this line will fall across the spine of the fourth lumbar vertebra, and the third space is above. The second or even the first interspace may be chosen, but in the fourth space the theca is apt to evade the needle. The spot selected may be.first frozen with a spray of ansstile. The needle, containing the solid stillette and held strictly horizontally, is passed through the skin in the middle line immediately above the spine of the fourth vertebra. After the first plunge through the skin, the needle is advanced more cautiously, and at a depth of from 2 to 2\ ins. can be felt to enter the spinal canal, when the stillette may be withdrawn. Frequently, however, the needle impinges upon bone, when it must be drawn back about \ in., its direction altered and the entrance into the canal carefully sought for. A further advance of the needle by from \ to \ in. should result in the perforation of the theca and the escape of the cerebro-spinal fluid. It is important that this fluid should escape freely and the needle should be rotated upon its axis to ensure this ; usually from 5 to 10 c.c. are collected in a test tube, but this is not essential. In the passage of the needle a vein is sometimes punctured and free blood comes out, but this usually disappears on pushing the needle forward ; or the first few drops of the fluid may be mingled with blood, but this is of little importance. The fluid having run clear, the hollow stillette to which the syringe containing the solution has been attached, is passed through the puncture needle, and the stovaine slowly injected, care, of course, being taken to avoid the introduction of air bubbles. For adults, I usually inject the whole 2 c.c., corresponding to I grain of stovaine; but for children, of course, much less is required. After the injection, both shoulders and legs are slightly raised. Motor paresis is the first to develop, and the anaesthesia should be complete in from three to eight minutes. The aniesthesia has been known to extend as high as the clavicle, but more often it does not reach higher than mid- way between the umbilicus and the ensiform cartilage. Sensation com- mences to return after about an hour, but is not completely restored for some hours. Difficulties and After-effects.—Apart from the intricacies of the passage into the spinal canal, the chief difficulties and dangers connected with this method are :—