264 TUMOURS Radium has also been found effectual for port-wine stains, but a considerable quantity and a long exposure are required. Lymphangiomata are tumours composed of lymphatic vessels of new formation, and it is often very difficult to differentiate them from lymphangiectases or varicose lymphatics ; they are congenital circum- scribed tumours. Three varieties are described : (1) The simple lymphang'iomata consist of dilated lymphatic vessels of the size of capillary blood-vessels ; tumours of this nature occur in the perineum, in the sacral region, in the axilla, etc. In some cases the dilated vessels are considerably larger, as is seen in the tongue in one form of macroglossia, and also in the lips, where it goes by the name of macrocheilia. (2) Cavernous lymphangiomata are spongy masses composed of lymphatic vessels, very closely resembling venous naevi in structure. They are found in the neck, in the sacral region, the lips, etc., generally in the subcutaneous tissues, but often deeper. (3) Cystic lymphang'iomata are congenital agglomerations of cysts of various sizes which may or may not communicate with each other or with lymphatic vessels. They are seen most frequently in the neck, where they have received the name of hydrocele of the neck ; they are also met with in the perineum, buttocks, thorax, etc. Treatment.—Operative interference, such as excision, used to be followed by suppuration in the l3nTiph spaces, followed by very serious results. This risk can be easily avoided nowadays by care in the manage- ment of the wound. In the majority of cases electrolysis is the best treat- ment (see p. 256). In the cystic forms, injections of iodine or undiluted carbolic acid are employed in the same way as for hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. In the smaller forms excision is frequently practised, but great care must be taken to ensure the asepticity of the wound. Lympliadenonia.—The causation of this disease is still uncertain and many authorities consider that it is allied to true tumour forma- tion. It may, however, be an infective disorder and will be described in the section devoted to diseases of the lymphatic glands (see Vol. II.). Lympho-sarcomata are composed of lymphatic tissue, and occur primarily in glands or in parts where lymphatic tissue is normally found ; they present a delicate reticulum with round cells entangled in it. The typical lympho-sarcoma is a very malignant tumour indeed. It occurs generally in the neck or the axilla, and the growth soon spreads beyond the gland capsule and infiltrates the tissues around. Adhesion to the surrounding structures soon occurs, and thus a nodular mass is formed composed of a multitude of glands united by adenoid tissue. Other groups of glands soon become involved and, in addition, tumours composed of lymphatic tissue may appear in parts where this is not normally present, as for example in bones. The disease goes on and is