415 SCOLIOSIS When Scoliosis has developed.—These cases may be divided into four large groups : [a) the curvatures of infancy, (b) those occiu'ring during childhood, (c) those occiuring during the period of adolescence, and {d) those occurring after growth is complete. The Scoliosis of Infancy.—The remarks made with reference to the treatment of kyphosis (see p. 404) will apply largely to tliis condition. The general health requires attention ; rickets must be treated by proper feed- ing, hygienic measures, and the regular administration of appropriate drugs (see Vol. II.). The child should be kept in the horizontal position, either in the nurse's arms or upon a suitably padded tray or basket. After the first year, the back support recommended for kyphosis (see p. 404) may be employed, but i^ecumbency must still be insisted upon, so as to relieve the back from the superincumbent weight. The child should always be sent to the country or the seaside for a considerable period if possible, and massage t<> the l)aclv muscles should be employed night and morning. Walking should be discouraged ; mothers are anxious for the child to begin to walk early, but the importance of the recumbent position should be pointed out, and attempts at walking prohibited. The child should be encouraged to sleep upon the back, and may if necessary be fastened down itpon a suitably padded wicker tray in that position. Special bed splints are sold for this purpose and may be used if preferred. Should there be a marked curvature, however, the lateral position may be substituted for the dorsal, the child being taught to lie upon the side of the convexity of the curve in the dorsal region, with a firm pillow or small bolster interposed between the mattress and the thorax, with the object of unfolding the cin ve. The mattress should be firm ; a feather bed should be avoided, and the child should sleep with the head supported by one small jmHow. The Scoliosis of Childhood.—(ireat care has to be exercised in the treatment of curvatures dm ing this period of life, for, although on the one hand the spine is extremely flexible, and therefore can be easily influenced by treatment, this fact may be a source of actual danger, because the cirr\'e if neglected will lead to such marked distortion of the bones when they become fully ossified as to render treatment very difficult. Removal of the Cause.—Before proceeding to attack the curvature itself, any cause that may originate or keep up the vicious position should be ehminated. Any obliquity of the pelvis, due to inequality in the length of the lower extremities, must be remedied by suitable means, such as boots or operation. Any vicious attitude acquired while sitting or standing at lessons, or e\'en in playing games, must be carefully in- quired for and forbidden, while some other attitude or game which tends to rectify the faulty position thus produced should be substituted. Any optical defects, such as myopia, should receive treatment ; adenoids or enlarged tonsils should be removed.