THE WASSERMANN REACTION 513 Wassermann's reaction usually makes its appearance during or at the end of the primary stage of the disease : approximately half the cases give a reaction before the appearance of the secondary symptoms. In the secondary stage it is almost constant—in fact, some observers have actually obtained 100 per cent, of positive results, although in most series there are a few negative findings in undoubted cases. Subsequently to this, much depends on the efficacy with which the case has been treated. As long as the disease is causing actual clinical manifestations, the reaction persists, and the same is true if it is merely lying latent. When, however, the patient has had a thorough course of treatment and the disease is completely eradicated, then the reaction disappears. According to some observers vigorous treatment may cause the reaction to disappear, but without accomplishing a complete cure, as shown by the fact that it may reappear after a few weeks' cessation of the treatment. In fact, the mere presence of mercury in the blood may abolish (temporarily) a positive reaction. A positive reaction is known to occur occasionally in diseases other than syphilis, but the conditions under which it does so are not ascer- tained at present. It appears to be present frequently in leprosy and in some tropical diseases due to protozoa (framboesia, sleeping sickness). Apart from this it has been described as occurring in other diseases, such as scarlet fever (but not constantly, and only for a short time) ; but many of these results were obtained in the early days, before the technique of the reaction had been fully worked out. At the present time it is extremely rare to find a positive reaction in a case in which syphilis can be excluded. Hence the following rules for the interpretation of the Wassermann reaction may be given :— (1) In the (supposed) primary stage a positive reaction is conclusive of syphilis : a negative reaction is inconclusive, but is more and more suggestive the longer the doubtful lesion has been present. (2) In the (supposed) secondary stage again a positive reaction is con- clusive : a negative reaction renders the diagnosis extremely improbable, except in the very early stages. (3) In the later stages, if there are active clinical manifestations, there will almost certainly be a positive reaction : hence if a patient with a suj^posed gumma react negatively the diagnosis is probably wrong. (4) The presence of the reaction is always an indication to continue treatment. The absence of a reaction, especially if it occurs on several occasions at intervals of a few weeks and after mercurial treatment has been suspended for at least three months, indicates that the disease is completely eradicated. (5) Congenital cases react like acquired ones, and the reaction may persist into adult life. I.