CHRONIC INFLAMMATION 21 in four or five days. If now the wound were left to itself, or merely dressed with some simple ointment, it would heal with great rapidity, because the skin has not been deeply destroyed, and there are numerous points from which epithelium would quickly spread over the part. In order to get the best effect from the actual cautery, it is necessary to keep the sore open for a few weeks, and this can only be done by the application of some irritant to the sore after the slough has separated. Savin ointment is usually employed for this purpose, but many patients are unable to bear the pain caused by the pure ointment for any length of time, and in most cases it is necessary to dilute it with an equal part of simple ointment, to add about 5 to 10 per cent, of cocaine, eucaine, or novocaine, or to sprinkle the part with orthoform. Even when savin ointment is used, healing is often too rapid, and it may be necessary to destroy the young epithelium on the surface of the sore from time to time with nitrate of silver, or, if that does not suifice, to apply potassa fusa.i It is remarkable how quickly the pain, even when severe, disap- pears after the application of the cautery, and how it will often recur if the wound be allowed to heal too rapidly. Fig. 7.—Flat Cautery. The fiat surface is generally used, but the edge can be employed if it be desired to score lines upon the skin. Another form of cautery is that known as Corrigan's cantevy, or the button cautery. This is a small, round, metal button fixed in a handle. It is heated to a red heat and pressed for a moment on the part ; by it a number of little sores can be produced. The effect of this small cautery, however, is not so good as that of the larger one, at any rate in extensive inflammation of bone. When this cautery is not at hand, a similar effect can be produced by the broad blade of a Paquelin's cauterv. The Paquelin cautery is very useful when a milder effect is recjuired. The broad platinum point is heated to a bright red or a white heat and then lightly and rapidly drawn across the skin so as to produce a series of parallel lines. Another set is then made crossing these at an angle so that there is a sort of ' cross hatching ' over the desired area. If the cautery be white-hot, and applied rapidly enough with a sort of flicking motion, this operation is practically painless and no auEEsthetic is required. The after effect is to produce a sensation similar to that of a mustard plaster. There is no need to apply any dressing if the cautery be applied in this way, as there is no injury to the deeper parts of the skin, the cuticle alone being charred. Free incision into the part, removing if possible a piece for ' A stick of potassa fusa is held in a pair of forceps and rubbed quickly over the part, which is then covered with lint steeped in vinegar.