4 INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS Local Treatment.—The most obvious symptom in inflammation is the congestion of the part, and the first point in the local treatment of an acute inflammatory trouble in which the cause is irremovable, is to attempt to diminish this congestion as much as possible. If the con- gestion be diminished, the pain will be lessened also and the patient's general condition ameliorated. Position.—When an inflamed part is allowed to hang down, the throbbing and the pain increase, as a result of the dilatation of the blood- vessels. The first essential in the treatment of acute inflammation, therefore, is to raise the inflamed part and, if possible, to place it on a higher level than the heart. By doing this the congestion is diminished not only by the mechanical emptying of the blood-vessels, but also by the production of reflex contraction of the arteries. Blood-lettingf.—A second method, by which the congestion of the part may be relieved and the local symptoms considerably ameliorated, is blood-letting, which may be either general or local. General blood-letting', or the removal of a relatively large quantity of blood from the general circulation without any special reference to the seat of the inflammation, probably acts by lowering the action of the heart, producing faintness, and so diminishing the circulation in the affected part. It is also possible that the loss of a considerable quantity of blood may alter the constitution of the remaining blood plasma to some extent, and render it more active as an anti-bacteric agent. General blood-letting was formerly much in vogue, but is seldom practised nowa- days ; it is best effected by opening a vein, the one usually chosen being the median basilic, on account of its large size and ready accessibiUty. The method, however, at the present time is almost entirely restricted to such inflammatory conditions of the lungs, and sometimes of the brain, as are characterised by engorgement of the right side of the heart. Although this is a small operation, it is absolutely necessary to per- form it with full antiseptic precautions, the patient's skin, the operator's hands, and the lancet being thoroughly purified in the ordinary manner ; i in former times patients occasionally lost their lives from septic throm- bosis. The patient sits upright upon a couch, so that he can lie down immediately, should he feel faint; this position has the further advantage that the patient will become faint sooner than if he were lying down, and thus a certain safeguard is provided against the withdrawal of too much blood. Venesection should never be practised with the patient in the recumbent position. A bandage is tied in a bow round the upper arm, tight enough to cause engorgement of the veins, but not to interfere with the arterial flow. The superficial veins are distended still further by making the patient grasp a stick, which helps to force the blood from the deep into the superficial veins. The surgeon faces the patient, grasps ' For the methods of disinfection of skin, instruments, etc., see Chap. V.