OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT facturers. An autoclave may be employed for sterilising this dressing, but as regards aseptic results we have found it no better than the method of sterilising the gauze by soaking it in an antiseptic solution. The dry dressing has advantages, however, from the point of view of the patient's comfort. External to the gauze we apply a mass of salicylic or double cyanide wool that has been sterilised in an autoclave. The apparatus foe sterilising dressings must be of necessity somewhat Fig. 24.—High Pressure Steam Steriliser.—This form of instrument is suitable for private work or a small hospital. The dressings, packed in suitable drums or boxes, are placed in the inner chamber. The water jacket is filled about three parts full, the level of the water being indicated by the gauge at the left-hand side of the instrument. A large gas burner is tlien lighted beneath the instrument, and when steam is escaping briskly the cock (2) is closed, the door of the inner chamber is tightly screwed up and the pressure in the outer chamber allowed to rise until the pressure gauge indicates 15 lb. to the sq. in. Cock (5) is then opened and steam allowed to pass into the inner chamber and expel the air, which is allowed to escape through cocks (i) and (6). When pure steam is issuing from these they are closed, and the communication between the inner and outer chambers cut off by closing cock (5). Cocks (3) and {4) are now opened so as to produce a partial vacuum in the inner chamber, the gauge for which is shown on the right- hand side of the instrument. Cocks (3) and (4) are now closed and steam is once more admitted to the inner chamber by opening cock (5). When sterihsation is com- plete, the vacuum apphance is once more brought into play, after communication between tlie two chambers has been shut off. Air is then admitted by opening a tap (6) which is in connection with a small metal cup containing sterilised wool to filter the air entering the sterilised chamber. The apparatus can be emptied by opening cock (7). costly, and in consequence many so-called sterilisers have been intro- duced at a moderate price; but the efficiency of these is very doubtful. Inasmuch as the antiseptic requirements can be met amply by the em- ployment of chemical antiseptics, which form a cheap and simple method of sterilisation, the use of dry sterilised dressings is not to be recommended unless a thoroughly efficient apparatus can be obtained. The apparatus which we use is shown in Fig. 24. It consists of an inner chamber, in which the dressings are placed, closed by a steel steam-proof door. This chamber is surrounded by a water jacket which can be heated by a powerful gas flame placed underneath. The flame of the gas burner is directed around the water jacket by an external casing lined with