INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 6 end of the leech) and not head first; the mistake is not uncommonly made by students. A narrow test-tube answers the purpose of a leech- glass excellently. Leeches that have not been confined in this manner to the area to which it is desired to apply them have wandered into mucous canals, such as the rectum or the vagina, and have there caused considerable mischief. When a leech has been applied, it is allowed to suck its fill, and the amount of blood which each individual leech will abstract varies from a drachm to a drachm and a half. When it has sucked as much blood as it will hold, it usually falls off, but its detachment can always be hastened, if neces- sary, by applying salt and water to it. The wound made by the leech is tri-radiate and does not extend deeply into the skin, and, there- fore, were there no provision for preventing it, coagulation would occur, and very little blood would be obtained from the wound after the leech had detached itself. In the pharynx of the leech, however, there is a gland secreting a sub- stance which prevents the coagulation of the blood, and it is probable that the cases of troublesome bleeding after the application of leeches are explained by the fact that this secre- tion has been left in the wound in considerable quantity. Bleeding from Leech-bites.—As a rule, bleeding from a leech-bite stops soon after the leech has been removed ; in many cases indeed, fomenta- tions have to be applied when it is desired to abstract more blood. Occasionally, however, there is considerable difficulty in arresting the bleeding. If a firmly applied pad and bandage should fail, the skin around the leech-bite should be pinched up, the bite carefully dried, and flexile collodion painted over it and allowed to dry before the pressure is relaxed ; or a solution of adrenalin chloride (i in looo) may be applied in a similar manner and is very efficacious. Should this not be available, however, liquor ferri perchloridi may be applied. Should the bleeding persist in spite of this, the most effectual plan is to excise the leech-bite and suture the edges of the wound thus made ; the object is to remove the tissues impregnated with the material from the leech's pharynx. In view of the possible occurrence of troublesome haemorrhage, it is not advisable to apply leeches to any region in which the skin cannot be compressed against a bone. For instance, they should not be applied to the scrotum ; if leeching be required for an inflammatory condition Fig. I. — A Leech. The drawing is natural size, and shows the ven- tral aspect of the leech, with the head uppermost.