ANESTHETICS 444 of such substances are, no doubt, of value, but it has not yet been proved that any of them possess a specific action in the matter. A purge, in the shape of castor oil, compound liquorice powder, calomel, colocynth, or compound rhubarb pill, is usually given the night before the operation, and, if necessary, an enema in the morning; this may consist either of plain water or soap and water. The latter is made by rubbing up Castile soap in warm water until a thick lather is formed, and about a pint is injected. Diet.—It is important that the stomach should be empty before the inhalation commences ; but starvation may be carried too far, especially in the feeble. Each case should be treated upon its merits, according to the digestive capacities and general health of the individual, and bear- ing in mind that the mere dread of the operation will often retard the digestion for hours. The best time for operating- is the early morning, in which case no food need be given after supper on the previous evening. If the operation be fixed for the afternoon (at or after i p.m.), a hght breakfast should be taken not later than 8 a.m., and a cup of hot broth or beef tea, or even hot water alone, should be given not less than three hours before the actual time of operation ; this is useful in counteracting the feeling of exhaustion and faintness, of which many persons complain if kept fasting too long. Milk and other slowly digestible substances should be avoided. In cases of special gravity, either from the condition of the patient or the probable severity of the operation, it will be found useful to give, when possible, a nutrient enema (yolk of one egg, one ounce each of beef-tea, milk, and brandy, peptonised,i if the patient be particularly exhausted) half an hour before he is placed upon the table, care being taken to wash out the rectum with warm water before the enema is injected. Aleohol.—Physiologically or clinically considered, the use of brandy by the mouth is irrational, as it encourages the tendency to retching and vomiting, and increases the poisonous effects of the anaesthetics. It may become necessary, however, in cases of impending syncope, and in some few instances its administration may have a good moral effect, but, as a general rule, it is not desirable. Hypodermic medication, immediately before the inhalation, has been advocated, the drugs most frequently employed being morphine, atropine, scopolamine, strychnine, and digitaline. Morphine (^ to I grain) is said to diminish shock, and to make it possible to keep the patient ansesthetised with a weaker vapour than might otherwise be necessary ; it is claimed 1 To peptonise, add 15 gr. bicarbonate of soda and a dessertspoonful of Benger's Liquor Pancreaticus or 5 gr. of Fairchild's Zymine. Place the jar containing the mixture in a basin of water as hot as the hand can bear. Allow it to remain for half an hour^ then heat it quickly to boiling point for one minute. Cool for injecting.