WOUNDS 92 INSTRUMENTS, LIGATURE MATERIALS AND DRESSINGS, AND THEIR STERILISATION. Two main methods are used for the steriHsation of hgatures and dress- ings, viz., by means of heat and by means of chemical solutions. Instruments are usually steriUsed by boiling ; they should be placed in a one-per-cent. solution of ordinary washing soda, which is already boiling. If the instruments be placed in this solution before it is boiled and then be brought to the boil, a deposit of lime salts takes place and the instruments are covered with a fine white powder, and are also liable to rust. All instruments should be boiled for at least fifteen minutes, but it is well to boil them longer if time permits. Many organisms are killed almost instantaneously by boiling, but there are others which are more resistant, and for safety it is necessary to continue the boiling for at least the specified time. When boiled, we are in the habit of placing the instruments in a wide fiat dish, covering them with a i in 20 or a i in 40 solution of carbohc acid ; this is done because, although they have been sterilised, they are none the less liable to be infected by dust or by contact with other articles, and this risk is prevented, or its evil effects are entirely avoided, by keeping them in an antiseptic solution. Knives, scissors, and needles are injured by boiling, chiefly on account of the large amount of carbonic acid in the water and the deposit of lime salts along their edges. Knives and other sharp instruments can be boiled without deterioration in distilled water but, as this is not always available in large quanti- ties, it is usually sufficient to disinfect them by immersing them for a few minutes in undiluted car- bolic acid, which is afterwards washed off in boiling water ; they are then placed in the instrument trays containing the carbolic solution. Instruments which are injured by boiling or by prolonged soaking in antiseptic solution, for example, gum elastic catheters, may be sterilised by keeping them in a jar at the bottom of which is placed ' trioxymethy- lene,' a substance which slowly gives off formalin vapour at atmospheric temperature ; this is a perfectly efficient method of sterihsing, but it takes several hours, and the formalin vapour must be of considerable Fig. 23.—Glass Jar FOR THE Sterilisation OF Catheters.—This is also useful for other in- struments which can neither be boiled nor im- mersed in an antiseptic solution. The catheters are suspended by a per- forated metal plate which forms a catheter gauge; this rests upon a shoulder at the upper end of the vessel, the bottom of which is covered with a layer of formalin or ' Paraform ' tablets. The jar has a tight fitting cover, so as to prevent escape of the formalin vapour.