121 OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT should be buried in the muscle, for sloughing of the skin may occur if a large quantity be injected subcutaneously. The ether may be repeated in fifteen or twenty minutes if necessary, and brandy also may be injected in the same quantity still more frequently. Half a drachm of a twenty-per-cent. solution of camphor in sterilised almond oil may be injected hypodermically. A hot nutrient enema containing half an ounce or more of brandy and two ounces of strong coffee should also be administered, and it may be advisable to give this during the course of the operation if signs of severe shock apj)ear. Strychnine and digitaline are also valuable, a thirtieth of a grain of strychnine (or a sixtieth if it has been already twice administered during the course of the operation), combined with a hundredth of a grain of digitaline being given and repeated every hour if necessary for three or four doses. Adrenalin is also much used at the present time in these cases, and pituitary extract has recently been found of value. The latter drug must, however, be given with caution and not in old people, as the blood accumulates in the lungs, and actual luemorrhage may occur there. Some authorities lay stress upon the value of saline infusion, which is performed as described on p. 112. The effect upon the pulse and the breathing should be carefulty watched, and the injection continued until the pulse becomes full, regular, and approaching its normal rate. For this purpose at least two or three pints of the saline solution will be required. When the infusion is done chiefly for loss of blood, the results are often striking, one injection being sufficient to tide the patient over his danger. When, however, it is performed for pure shock, the effect, although good, is often transient, and the sj^mptoms of shock begin to reassert themselves after the lapse of from a half to three hours, and it may be necessary to repeat the injection even a third or fourth time, the canula being kept iti situ in the intervals between the injections. This, however, gives rise to such an extreme dilution of the blood as to produce imperfect aeration in the lungs, and sometimes severe dyspnoea may result ; if this be the case, the infusion must be stopped, and rectal injections and stimulants substituted. Infusion as a treatment for shock, although worth a trial in bad cases, has not proved so satis- factory in our hands as the writings of some surgeons might lead one to expect ; in a case of pure shock the further dilution of the blood can hardly be expected to aid the recovery of the nerve centres. A better method is to inject the saline solution into the cellular tissue of the axilla (see p. 120), and the advantage of this is that dilution of the blood does not occur so rapidty; half a pint or more of the saline solution should be injected into the areolar tissue of the axilla at once, and repeated in an hour if necessary. Still better is the infusion into the rectum drop b}' drop, as described on p. 115, as soon as the patient has been put back to bed.