424 DEFORMITIES All the exercises herein detailed are meant to be performed with slowness, ease, and grace, without jerking or holding the breath. No exercise is to be continued after the first feeling of fatigue is induced. There should be a rest between each, the length of which should depend upon whether the exercise has been one requiring little or much expenditure of energy. It is advisable as far as possible to interpose an exercise inducing little force between two requiring more. In the different exercises a pause should intervene in moving from one position to another, and before commencing the following exercises the patient must practise breathing properly. He must inspire as freely and deeply as possible through the nose, with- out strain ; then, with the mouth open, expiration should follow at once without efiort, being performed by the elasticity of the chest and lungs alone. Both move- ments should be easily and regularly performed, and a short rest should follow each expiration. After each set of three double movements there should be a longer rest occupied by at least three ordinary breaths. N.B.—Most of the exercises down to Series G are taken from an article by Madame Nageotte-Wilbouchewitch published in the ' Presse Medicale ' of October 14, 1896. HOME EXERCISES. These exercises commence with very mild ones and gradually work up to ones requiring more strength. The first are performed lying down either prone or supine. The next series are made leaning against the wall or other support. The patient then performs the same exercises standing without support. This order is taken because the patients are mostly too feeble at first to do exercises standing for more than a few minutes, and therefore tend to assume bad positions. The recumbent position, as before remarked, is a good one for redressing the curves. In arranging the patient perfectly straight, some assistance maj' be derived from the pattern of the carpet or the lines on the floor. The upright exercises should be performed before a glass. Dollinger, of Buda-Pesth, fixes black tapes across the glass, which then act as lines of mark. This is a very useful addition, as it enables patients to place them- selves in a mesial position and easily makes evident to them any inequality of the height of the shoulders or of the sub-axillary spaces. Series A.—Lying on tlie Baelc. General Instructions.—The patient lies down on the floor or table, heels together shoulders at the same level, head straight, arms extended by the side of the body, palms facing upwards. The shoulder blades are to be pushed back so as to expand the chest, and the whole posterior surface of the body should be applied to the surface of the table so as to efface the lumbar bend as much as possible. Note.—The efficacy of most of the exercises from A to F can be increased by the use of dumb-bells from half a pound to five pounds in weight. I. Arms in three positions.—[a) By the sides of the body. (6) Straight out, forming a cross with the body, (c) By the side of the head touching the ears, and as straight as possible. Breathe while resting in each atti- tude. Return in the same manner to the position of rest (see Fig. 148). These movements will exercise the pectorals, all the muscles attached to the scapula and latissimus dorsi. c Fig. h&.