DEFORMITIES 278 skin and the other soft structures are permanently shortened, and forcible attempts to straighten the joint result in dislocating the base of the second phalanx below the head of the first. In severe cases also the articular surfaces are so much altered that an imperfect result would be obtained even if they were brought properly into contact. When there is flexion of all the toes, as may be the case in pes cavus, a special splint with bands passing over the dorsal surface of each toe will be required (see Fig. 77). Later on, when the tendency to flexion has been greatly reduced, an efficient splint may be made by attaching a stout glove-finger of suitable size to a piece of whalebone or flexible steel covered with chamois leather; this lies on the dorsum of the foot beneath the stocking, and is fastened by a broad tape round the instep. The toe goes into the glove-finger (see Fig. 78). Since some form of sphnt must be worn for a long time and may be required permanently, it becomes a question whether it is worth tlie patient's while to submit to this method of treatment. We are of opinion that in all except the shghtest cases it is best to practise some form of operation which obviates the necessity of using a sphnt, and which gives satisfactory results without laying the patient up for any length of time. Excision of the Head of the First Phalanx.—The operative procedures which may be adopted are removal of the head of the first phalanx, excision of the joint, or amputation. The third method is not to be recommended; removal of the toe, in acquired cases, simply favours the increase of the hallux valgus; an exception may be made in the case of working men, who wish to get to work as quickly as possible, and who therefore insist on amputation. We strongly advise the removal of the head of the first phalanx in all but the slightest cases. If enough Fig. 77.—Splint for all the Toes. This is used when there is contraction of several toes. Fig. 78.—Splint for use in After- Treatment of Hammer Toe. This is one that can be easily improvised, and is suitable for use where it is merely desired to prevent the recurrence of flexion. It is made of whale- bone or light flexible steel, which can be bent to fit the outline of the foot. If preferred, it can be made to lie along the sole of the foot.