WOUNDS 14c ' stitches of relaxation,' and others which may be termed ' stitches of coaptation.' ' Stitches of Relaxation.'—Stitches of relaxation require to be inserted at a considerable distance from the edges of the wound, and must be reasonably stout, because a fine stitch would cut its way out too quickly ; the best material for this purpose is thick silver wire (Nos. i or 2 gauge), threaded into special needles, ' Lister's pattern ' (see Fig. 40). The wire is threaded through an eye which is at some distance from the end, while between the eye and the end of the needle there is a groove, into which the wire is pressed, so that where the needle goes the wire follows without any unnecessary tearing of the structures through which it passes. In threading these needles, two or three inches of the wire are passed through the eye and flattened carefully into the groove on each side ; the needle is then held with forceps, and the two ends of the wire are carefully twisted together (see Fig. 41). If one end of the wire be merely twisted round the other, a number of projections are left, which catch in the wound when the stitch is pulled through. Pure drawn silver wire without any alloy must be employed ; its properties and the method of sterilising and preparing it for use are described fully on p. 95. If the tension be not very great, the wire is tied into the first half of a reef-knot, the ends are turned up at right-angles and then clipped off flush with the surface of the wire (see Fig. 42); if the wire be stout, it will hold perfectly well, while there is no projecting end left to catch in the dressing. When the tension is great, a second twist must be made and the ends cut off and bent down on to the skin. The ends of the wire may be prevented from catching in the dressing by interposing a layer of oiled silk protective between them and the wound. Enough of these deep silver-wire stitches must be put in to enable the edges of the wound to be brought together without any tension. Undermining Flaps.-—When much skin has been taken away, it is often impossible to suture the edges accurately unless the skin be freed by undermining it widely. By this means the skin and fat are separated from the deeper parts for a considerable distance, and the elasticity of the skin allows the flap thus formed to stretch, and the cut edges to meet. FuU details of the method will be found on p. 157. Button Sutures.—When the tension is very great, the ' button sutures ' introduced by Lord Lister may be employed with advantage. A needle threaded with stout silver wire, as described above, is inserted through the skin several inches from the edge of the undermined flap, at the outer limit of the undermining, and the free end of this is attached to a lead button (see Fig. 42). The wire is then carried across the wound, and the needle brought out through the skin at the corresponding spot on the opposite side where the undermining ceases. The needle is then cut off, and over the cut end of the wire is threaded a second button, which is pushed as far down as possible, while firm traction is made on the wire,