SUGGESTIONS FOR DOSAGE OF VACCINES 517 In cases of great urgency the experienced bacteriologist, wlio is sure of his technique, may omit tliis step in the case of some organisms, and thus shorten the process by twenty-four hours or more. Preparing'the Dilutions.—The emulsion is diluted with normal saline solution, containing a certain amount of some antiseptic, of which carbolic acid seems to answer best. Its strength will vary according to the amount to be added to a given volume of the vaccine, so that the final product should contain J-| per cent. Thus in the example given, if the emulsion were to be diluted thirteen times, -|-per cent, would be used for the diluent. In the second case, where four volumes were to be added to 10 per cent, of the emulsion, the fluid used might contain i per cent, of carbolic acid to start with, giving a final strength in the vaccine of, roughly, ^ per cent. These dilutions are made in sterile test-tubes, and the amounts may be conveniently measured by the use of an ordinary all-glass hypodermic or exploring syringe. Tlie vaccine is now finished. It may be kept in bulk in sterile test-tubes or bottles, or, preferably, may be put up in sealed bulbs or ampoules, each containing one dose. A hypodermic syringe may be used for filling these bulbs, which are then hermetically sealed in the flame. SUGGESTIONS FOR DOSAGE OF VACCINES. The following suggestions are offered as a rough guide as to the dosage of vaccines, in case no opsonic control is used. As a general rule the doses will be smaller in the more acute and severe cases, larger in the chronic ones; where very small doses are given the interval between them may be less than if large doses are employed, and in any case the clinical symptoms must be closely watched, so that any indication as to size of doses and length of interval may be obtained. Staphylococci.—Dose 250-1000 millions at intervals of 10-14 days. Some give smaller doses, but they are probably not so efficacious. Streptococci.—In septicaemia, erysipelas, and other acute and severe infections 5-25 millions every 4-7 days. In more chronic cases the dose should be small to commence with, but may go up to 100 millions or even more. The use of anti-streptococcic serum must not be forgotten. Piieiimococci.—In acute cases 5-25 millions may be given every 4-7 days, or oftener, if the clinical signs seem to justify it. In chronic cases the dose may gradually rise to 250 millions or even higher, and the injections be made every 7-10 days. Goiiococci.—Good results have been obtained in ordinary gonorrhoea as the result of one or tw^o doses of 10-50 millions : there is a general tendency towards a reduction of the dosage. In the vulvo-vaginitis of children the dose should be 1-5 millions. In gonorrha;al arthritis it is