50 INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS washed with ether soap and a disinfecting lotion, and shaved. The best lotion to use for the purpose is a i in 20 watery solution of carbolic acid in which is dissolved one five-hundredth part of corrosive sublimate ; this will be referred to hereafter as ' strong mixture.' The lotion can be conveniently prepared by adding to a pint of i in 20 carbolic acid two soloids of perchloride of mercury of the usual strength (875 gr.). It should be noted that ' strong mixture' cannot be made by mixing equal parts of I in 20 carbolic and i m 500 perchloride of mercury lotions. The part is first thoroughly washed with soap and this mixture, and then well scrubbed with a nail-brush dipped in the mixture; finally, the strong mixture may be removed from the skin by washing it with a I in 2000 watery solution of corrosive sublimate. It is not always easy to disinfect the surface of an ulcer completely at one sitting; the most rapidly efficacious plan seems to be to swab it thoroughly over with undiluted carbolic acid. A smaU piece of sponge is dipped in liquefied carbolic acid, rubbed firmly over the whole surface of the granulations and sides of the ulcer and allowed to act for some minutes. This no doubt destroys the granulations, but they are usually unhealthy, and of no use in healing ; the method is a very effectual one. The application causes a good deal of pain at the time, but this soon passes off, for the acid is a local anaesthetic. When the granulations are prominent, or soft and oedematous, it is well to scrape them away with a sharp spoon ; if the ulcer be large a general anaesthetic is necessary. Other methods of purifying the ulcer have been employed. Lord Lister used to apply a solution of chloride of zinc (40 gr. to the ounce of water). This however is much more painful than the application of the undiluted carbolic acid, the pain lasting for hours, while the method does not seem to be so efficient. When it does not seem desirable to employ undiluted carbolic acid, disinfection of the sore may be obtained by packing the surface with lint dipped in I to 5 carbolic oil; if this be changed twice a day, the foul condition wiU usually be got rid of in the course of two or three days. The oil should be applied to the surface of the ulcer alone ; if applied to the skin it may produce much irritation. First Dressing after Disinfection.—The best dressing to employ after the disinfection is cyanide gauze and salicyhc wool, as used in the treat- ment of wounds (see Chap. V.). The gauze should be soaked in i in 4000 sublimate solution and applied directly to the surface of the ulcer, and the salicylic wool 1 is put on outside the gauze. When there is any doubt as to the completeness of the disinfection, it is well to pack the recesses of the ulcer with small pieces of cyanide gauze lightly squeezed out of I in 2000 sublimate solution. ' Although these medicated wools may be applied outside the gauze dressings just as they are taken from the packages in which they are sold, it is an undoubted advantage to subject them to the action of superheated steam if possible (see p. 97).