CONGENITAL CLUB-FOOT 317 to resent the manipulations, so that after a few days no further progress is made. The foot should be, so to speak, rather coaxed than forced into its proper position; after the foot has been brought into position it should be held there for ten minutes. It will usually be found that re-position can be effected readily, and the child does not object to the renewal of the manipulations on subsequent occasions, and in the course of a few days it will be possible to over-correct the deformity without exciting spasm of the muscles ; this should be aimed at in all cases. The nurse should rub the leg gently and knead the muscles on the side opposite the deformity firmly with the view of increasing their power and enabling them to keep the foot in position. These manipulations, however, are not suffi- cient to lead to a permanent cure, and in the intervals between their employment the foot should be fixed in its normal position, or, if possible, in one in which the deformity is some- what over-corrected ; a constant gentle pressure is thus exerted, and the soft cartilaginous bones are gradually moulded into their normal shape. In the early stages this is done better by a light splint than by any compUcated apparatus, which, owing to the small size of the foot, is not likely to keep its proper place. The splint which we prefer (see Fig. 100), consists of a fight metal leg-piece which is moulded to the back of the leg from just above the os calcis to the upper part of the calf, and a flat foot-piece cut to the shape of the foot; these two portions are connected by a stout copper wire bent as shown in the figure, and strong enough to resist the action of the muscles, but at the same time pliable enough to be bent by the nurse. The splint is padded with chamois leather, and the wire bent so that the splint fits the foot whilst the latter is in the faulty position. The foot and leg are then fastened firmly to the splint by bandages, and the nurse grasps the foot-piece with one hand, and the leg-piece with the other, gradually bringing the splint, and with it the foot, into its normal position ; after a few days the limb may be brought into a position of over-correction. The copper wire connecting the two portions oi the splint is sufficiently stout to retain its new position, and resist the tendency of the muscles to reproduce the deformity. The spUnt should be taken off two or three times a day to permit of the manipulations referred to above, and should be bent back into the faulty position before being re-applied ; it is then fixed on the leg and foot, and the limb afterwards brought into the over-corrected position. Fig. ioi.—Splint for Talipes. This is similar to theoDein the preceding figure, except that it has a projecting rim along the inner border of the foot-piece, which is very useful for keeping the foot in place.