AN^STHETHICS 466 different constituents of the mixture evaporate at different temperatures. This, of course, is true, but experience has shown that the consequent shght variations in the composition of the vapour, do not mihtate against the practical efficacy of tlie mixture. Bearing in mind that the most potent constituent of the A.C.E., and most other mixtures, is the cliloroform, it is only natural that the phenomena observed, and the precautions to be adopted in their adminis- tration, are but modifications of those already described under the head of the latter drug. Owing to the stimulating effect of the ether—which should be almost continuous, if small, frequently repeated doses, mixed with plenty of air, be given—the depressing effects of the chloroform are less apparent. On the other hand, laryngeal spasm is of slightly more frequent occurrence in children, and as the flow of mucus is increased, the breathing is apt to be a httle more noisy. The ether-rash (see p. 455) is occasionally observed, and the pupils are, on the whole, inclined to be rather more widely dilated than with chloroform in the third stage of anaesthesia. The dangers and after-effects are essentially those of chloroform (see p. 471), but as they are rather more gradual in their onset, they can usually be detected before the condition of the patient becomes serious. There appears to be less fear of early cardiac syncope. In cases lasting more than about three-quarters of an hour, I often increase the proportion of ether in the mixture by gradual additions of that drug. About ij ounce should suffice to induce ancesthesia ; in children less will be required. Five to seven minutes should be allowed for the pro- duction of the primary narcosis. From a calculation based upon 2801 cases, in which both the duration of the operation and the amount of mixture used was noted, one ounce of A.C.E. was estimated to last on an average 15-6 minutes {King's Coll. Hosp. Rep., vols, vi., vii. and viii.). ETHYL CHLORIDE (CoH^Cl) is a colourless liquid with a somewhat pungent, but not disagreeable odour. It evaporates at a temperature of 12-5° C. {52-^° F.), and the vapour is very inflammable. It forms the basis of many of the proprietary Fig. 210.—Chloride of Ethyl Tube. articles used for the production of anaesthesia by freezing, such as Anestile, Kelene, Narcotile, etc., and it is the chief contsituent of ' Somnceform.' It is usually sold in glass tubes containing about 50 c.c, fitted with a spring stopper (Fig. 210). When the minute hole in the nozzle is uncovered, the heat of