THE ENUMERATION OF THE LEUCOCYTES corners in turn, and Newton's rings should appear and persist at eacli. As this is not ahvays easily accomplished I am in the habit of clipping the cover-glass to the slide by means of four pairs of Cornet's forceps. Newton's rings are formed round the tip of each, and persist as long as the pressure is kept up. In a few minutes the corpuscles will all have settled into contact with the disc, and the exact depth of the cell is now immaterial, so that the forceps may be removed. Proceed to count the leucocytes in the following way. Focus the pre- paration under the ^th in. lens, using a narrow diaphragm, so as to cut off the excess of hght. You wiU recognise the red corpuscles, which will be unstained and of a very faint yellow colour, and the leucocytes, which are now coloured violet. If you have the centre of the disc in the field, you will see that it is traversed by fine lines crossing each other at right angles, and thus marking off the field into small squares. It is now necessary to arrange the length of the tube of your microscope so that the diameter of the whole field is equal to that of eight of these squares (Fig. 222). To do this it is usually necessary to employ a No. 2 eyepiece, and to draw out the tube of the microscope a little ; but the conditions are readily deter- mined by experiment, and, when once found, should be noted for future use. With some lenses it is not possible to get a field of this size. In this case you wiU probably be able to get one equal to seven squares, and this will serve. Now count the leucocytes which appear on any field of the microscope, and note down their number. Move the slide until you come to a fresh field—and it is here that the mechanical stage is such an advantage—• and count these also. Proceed in this way until 3'ou have counted forty, or, if greater accuracy be required, eighty fields, and add up the total number of leucocytes seen. The calculation is now very simple. If you have counted eighty fields it is only necessary to multiply the result by 100, or if forty have been counted, by 200, to obtain the numbers per cubic millimetre. The figures thus obtained are sufficiently accurate for all clinical purposes. In most cases eighty fields should be counted unless the first forty yield figures such that the diagnosis is fairly certain, i.e. unless you can say definitely that there is or is not a leucocytosis. In health a count made with the microscope, arranged in this way, should show an average of about one leucocyte per field (= 80 in 80 fields, or 8000 per cubic millimetre). An average of two per field indicates a moderate leucocytosis, one of three per field a high one. When it is only possible to obtain seven squares in the diameter of Fig. 222.—^The Central Disc of the Count- ing Chamber OF Thoma's H/Emocytometer.