234 TUBERCULOSIS when it has perforated the gland capsule and spread through the fascia to the subcutaneous tissue, the only satisfactory treatment is to dissect out the wall of the abscess and the affected gland along with it. To dissect away completely and cleanly the abscess wall and the focus from which it originates may be regarded as the ideal treatment of a chronic abscess. If the abscess has thinned and infected the skin, the affected portion of the skin should be removed also, as any attempt to save it will leave tuberculous material behind, which may act as a focus for re-infection of the wound, so that heahng may be delayed; if left, the thinned skin will die and an ugly scar will result. Hence all adherent skin should be excised, and the edges of the wound brought together after undermining the skin around ; the wound is then stitched up completely and treated as an aseptic incised wound (see p. 133). Should the abscess burst during the dissection, and pus escape, the wound should be thoroughly douched out ; tuberculous infection of the wound rarely occurs under these circumstances. When the abscess is connected with a gland, it is not sufficient to remove only the gland that has led to the abscess ; any others in the neighbourhood that are enlarged should also be taken away. Partial Removal of the Abscess Wall.—In large deep-seated chronic abscesses it is impossible to remove the wall completely. Here the surgeon has the choice of two procedures. If the abscess be situated so deeply that it cannot be dissected away, and if no important structures intervene between its wall and the surface, the former should be laid open freely (unless it be important to avoid causing a scar), so that the whole interior of the abscess cavity is exposed to view ; as much of the wall as possible should then be dissected out and clipped away with scissors. Any portions that cannot be treated in this manner must be thoroughly scraped. The best instrument to use for this purpose is Barker's flushing spoon (see Fig. 52), by means of which a stream of fluid is kept constantly flowing over the parts, so that the material loosened by the spoon is carried away at once and does not lodge in the recesses of the wound. The fluid used for this irrigation should be I in 4000 perchloride of mercury. When the abscess cavity has been thoroughly scraped and cleansed from all flakes of cheesy material and pus, two or three drachms of an iodoform and glycerine emulsion 1 should be poured into the wound according to the size of the abscess ; the object is to employ enough of the emulsion to come into contact with the whole of the scraped abscess wall. The wound is then stitched up and, wherever it is possible, pressure is applied so as to bring the deeper parts together and to avoid leaving a cavity. In many cases the wound heals by first intention when treated in this way and there is no further trouble. 1 The emulsion is made by adding 10 parts of iodoform to 90 parts of glycerine which contains joVuth part of corrosive sublimate.