25 CHAPTER II. ACUTE SUPPURATION. DEFINITION.—By acute suppuration is meant a process in which the inflammation, after reaching the stage of granulation, goes on to liquefaction of the tissues and the formation of pus. Pus is a fluid con- taining in suspension cells, chiefly leucocytes, and it may either form in the substance of the tissues, when the inflammation is deep-seated, or be given off from a free surface. We shall only consider here the question of suppuration as it occurs in the substance of the tissues ; suppuration from a free surface will be discussed in connection with the treatment of wounds and ulcers. Suppuration in the tissues occurs under two forms. In the one, the pus is contained in a well-defined cavity with a distinct wall formed of granulation tissue; in the other, it infiltrates the cellular tissue and there is no proper limiting membrane, the tissues being, so to speak, soaked with the purulent material. The former is the ordinary circumscribed acute abscess, the latter is the much more dangerous form of suppuration known as diffuse cellulitis. CAUSES.—Acute suppuration is always due to pyogenic organisms, the circumscribed abscess being most frequently caused by the staphylo- coccus pyogenes aureus or albus and by other less virulent forms, especiaUy the pneumococcus ; diffuse cellulitis is usually caused by the streptococcus pyogenes. Although these organisms are the essential cause of acute suppuration, they will not necessarily cause suppuration unless they are present in large numbers or in a state of extreme virulence. In most cases other accessory factors are present which favour the growth of the organisms, as, for example, conditions enabling the organisms to rest in the part, or producing a weak spot where the tissues are less resistent than elsewhere. Thus, it is not uncommon to find acute abscesses forming in parts that have been injured, or have been the seat of in- flammation, since the tissues there are in a weak state and not well calculated to resist the attack of the parasite. The organisms reach the