THE WASSERMANN REACTION 511 reaction is indicated by the fact that the corpuscles remain undissolved and form a compact layer at the bottom of colourless fluid, whereas when the reaction is negative they are dissolved, forming a clear crimson solution. Numerous controls are necessary, but exact details of this (the original) process will not be given, since it can only be carried out by an experimenter having facilities for the use of animals. Some simpler methods, which are not beyond the reach of independent workers, will be given. The most important modification consists in the replacement of the extract described above by an alcoholic extract of a syphilitic liver or of a normal heart—either human, or from a guinea-pig or ox. A con- venient method is to take a few grammes of normal heart-muscle, add five times its weight of absolute alcohol, grind the two together and allow it to macerate for twenty-four hours. Then heat the mixture to 60° C. for one hour and filter, and the extract is ready. For use dilute one part of the clear solution with nine parts or more of normal saline solution, the exact degree of dilution necessary for any given sample being determined by experiments with normal and syphilitic sera. The alcoholic solution keeps indefinitely, but usually undergoes alterations in strength. Not all extracts act equally well, and none should be admitted for clinical use until it has been used for numerous tests on known bloods, syphilitic and non-syphilitic. It may be pointed out that the fact that an alcoholic solution of a normal organ acts as an antigen in the test proves that the reaction is not in reality on a par with the Bordet-Gengou reaction, as described above. It was necessary to describe that reaction in order to explain what happens in the Wassermann test, but, as a matter of fact, the latter is at present purely empirical. Its practical value is proved by clinical experience, but the theoretical considerations which led to its intro- duction are unsound, and at the time of writing we do not know in the least how the complement is absorbed in a positive reaction. The simplest modification is that introduced by Hecht and advocated by Fleming. It depends on the fact that normal human serum usually contains amboceptor and complement for sheep's corpuscles. It is carried out as follows : The blood to be tested is collected in the ordinary way in Wright's pipettes, allowed to clot and centrifugalised, so that clear serum is obtained. With a fine pipette i unit (of about ten cubic millimetres) of this fresh serum is placed in a narrow tube (about |th in. wide) and mixed with 4 units of diluted alcoholic extract, prepared as above. A second tube is prepared, in which the extract is replaced by normal saline solution : this is an absolutely necessary control. No com- plement is added, that present in the serum itself being sufficient. The two tubes are incubated for an hour, and then i unit of a 10 per cent, emulsion of sheep's corpuscles, which have been washed by at least three centrifugalisations from normal saline solution, is added and well mixed