ADMINISTRATION OF ETHER 457 On the other hand, there can be no doubt that the inhalation of ether renders the lungs particularly susceptible to alterations in temperature, draughts, etc. Consequently, some bronchial irritation may occasionally follow the inhalation. It is wise, therefore, to order that the temperature of the room should not be allowed to drop below 65° F., that screens should be placed round the bed, and that for the first few hours at any rate, the patient should, if possible, be kept lying on one side, by preference the right. This latter manoeuvre not only assists the escape of saliva, from the mouth, but, I beheve, also facilitates the onward flow of the stomach contents through the pyl- orus, and so diminishes the tendency to retching and sickness. Occasion- ally. ' water-logging,' and the effects of over-stimulation (see p. 456) do not manifest themselves until after the patient has been put back to bed, and fatal results have been recorded from these causes at this stage ; patients should, therefore, be strictly watched by a responsible person, for at least an hour or more after the completion of the opera- tion. For a more detailed reference to after-treatment see p. 477. NITROUS OXIDE AND ETHER COMBINED. —The so-called combined method is the plan of inducing anaesthesia with nitrous oxide, and maintaining the narcosis with ether (nitrogenising the ether). The pro- cedure is as follows, viz. ;—If the Clover's inhaler be used, the three-way tube and bag of the nitrous oxide apparatus are substituted for the smaller ether-bag (Fig. 202). About half a dozen full respira- tions of the nitrous oxide are allowed, and then the ether vapour is cautiously admitted, by rotating the ether chamber. When once the ether is tolerated, the increase in the strength of the vapour may be much greater, and made at shorter intervals than when ether alone is being administered. When irregular stertor and twitching of the muscles appear, the nitrous oxide must all be pressed out of the bag, and a breath or two of air given, or, perhaps a better plan is, to change the large for the smaller bag at this stage. It is as well to point out that a good deal of practice is required before imiformly satisfactory results are obtained. The point to be aimed at is the turning on of the ether at such a rate, that a full dose Fig. 202.—Clover's PARATUS, riTTED FOR Ether combined. A, Portable Ether Nitrous Oxide steel gas bottles Ap- and B, Reservoir bag ; C, Three-way stop-cock connect- ing gas bag ; D, Ether chamber ; E, Facepiece.