120 WOUNDS anaesthetic ; this may be repeated more than once during the operation, if the pulse begins to fail; even larger doses may be administered. It is very important to give the strychnine before the shock has set in, for when shock is once established remedies are of little avail, and recovery mainly depends on the patient's recuperative power. Infusion of saline solution into the axillce is also of great value, especially in young children. The needle should be inserted before the operation incision is made, and an assistant should inform the surgeon of the progress of the infusion, reporting when each ounce of saline solution has run in. For children under three years one to three ounces is usually sufficient. When this method of infusion is practised, the whole of the fluid is not absorbed at the close of the operation, although sufficient has entered into the circulation to maintain the blood pressure. This probably accounts for the fact that the severe collapse, which otherwise so often comes on several hours after the operation has been concluded, does not occur. In adults a method of auto-infusion has been suggested, and in opera- tions such as amputation at the hip-joint or excision of the scapula is often of great value. The limbs which are not being operated on have a tourniquet applied to them as high up as possible without of course any preliminary emptying of the veins. In this way a large amount of blood is segregated from the circulation and does not become saturated with the antesthetic. At the close of the operation, or whenever necessary, the tourniquets are slowly removed and the blood is allowed to enter the circulation. An ingenious pneumatic suit has also been devised by Crile, especially for cranial operations. The object of this is to maintain the blood pressure by diminishing the capacity of the whole vascular system by exerting uniform pressure on the ti^unk and the limbs. A similar effect may be obtained by bandaging the limbs from the extremities towards the trunk with either an india-rubber bandage somewhat loosely or a crepe one firmly applied. {b) When established.—When shock is established,vigorous measures must be adopted to combat it. In the first place, warmth is of the highest importance ; the patient should be wrapped up in warm blankets, outside which hot bottles are placed; benefit will also be obtained by chafing the extremities and the abdomen. He should be put to bed as rapidly as possible and laid quite flat, with only a thin bolster beneath the head, the foot of the bed being raised about six inches so as to favour the flow of blood to the brain, and he should be kept as still as possible so as not to exhaust the heart. A useful measure is to cover the patient with a blanket, place a large cage or cradle outside this and hang electric lights from the top bar of the cradle, covering the whole with blankets. Free stimulation is also important ; perhaps the most rapid stimuant is eiher injected subcutaneously in doses of from twenty to thirty minims. The point of the needle used for injecting the ether