THE DIFFERENTIAL LEUCOCYTE COUNT with nitric acid, wash in water, immerse in alcohol, and polish with a clean handkerchief.) To prepare the films prick the patient as before and, holding a cover-glass with the thumb and forefinger of your right hand, grasping opposite corners, take a small drop of blood—about as big as the head of a large pin—on the under surface of the glass. Now take another cover-glass, holding adjacent corners between the thumb and forefinger of your left hand, and place this glass under the other, with their centres coinciding, and let the upper cover-glass fall into the lower. The drop of blood will now be flattened out between the two glasses and should just fill up the octagon made by their intersecting edges. Then take hold of the upper cover-glass again and slide the two apart. You should now have two good films. AUow them to dry. To stain them by Jenner's method take one of the cover-glasses in a pair of Cornet's forceps (film side upward) and pour on a few drops of the stain, which may be bought ready prepared. Allow it to act for three or four minutes, then rinse in distilled or clean rain-water, blot dry between two pieces of blotting paper, diy completely over a flame, and mount in balsam. Examine with a \ih in. or ^Vth in. lens, and make a count of 400 leucocytes, noting down each sort met with, and reduce the result to a percentage. The varieties of leucocytes met with in normal blood are: I. The lympliocytes. These have circular nuclei with a variable but usually small amount of protoplasm, which often takes the blue stain (by Jenner's method) more deeply than the nucleus. They vary in size, some being about as large as the red corpuscles, others decidedly larger. They are devoid of granules. In healthy adults they usually form about 25 per cent, of the total leucocytes. 2 Large hyaline or large mononuclear cells which are similar to the above, but larger, and have indented or twisted nuclei and protoplasm which usually stains faintly. They form about 1-4 per cent, of the total leucocytes, and may be counted m with the lymphocytes, as their variations are of but little diagnostic importance. 3 Polynuclear leucocytes, which have twisted (apparently multiple) nuclei and fine pink-staining gi-anules in their protoplasm. The latter may not be seen in badly stained specimens, but the characteristic nuclei are usually sufficient for their recognition. They form about 60 to 75 per cent, of the leucocytes, and are the cells which are especially increased in inflammatory conditions. 4. Eosinophiles, which have also twisted (most frequently bilobed) nuclei and large granules which stain a fine pink colour. They form about 1-4 per cent of the total leucocytes, and are usually diminished in severe inflammatory conditions, the diminution being roughly pro- portional to the severity of the inflammation : their reappearance in the course of an illness of this nature is a good sign. 5. Mast cells, which have lobed nuclei and blue-staining granules.