THE FREEZING POINT OF THE BLOOD OR SERUM 505 A great objection to the use of this method is that large amounts of blood—10 c.c. or more—are necessary. This, together with the uncertain interpretation to be placed upon the results which it yields, prevents it from being used much, in this country at least. The process for the determination of the freezing point is not difficult, and the results obtained are very accurate. It is fully described in Ewing's ' Clinical Pathology of the Blood.' The examination of the molecular concentration of the blood (or serum) and of the urine which is being secreted at the time the blood is taken is of greater promise. It may be carried out by the determination of the freezing points of the two substances, or by a method due to Wright {Lancet, April 2, 1904, and October 21, 1905) which has the great advan- tage that only a very small amount of serum is necessary. It depends upon the fact that red blood corpuscles are hsemolysed in distilled water or in solutions of salts below a certain molecular concentration about equal to that of 0 42 per cent. NaCl. The patient is made to empty his bladder and a sample of blood is collected. As soon as possible after this he is again made to empty his bladder, and a sample of urine thus obtained. Various dilutions of the serum and of the urine are now made with distilled water, and to each a definite volume of blood (or an emulsion of blood corpuscles) is added. This is done by means of a capillary pipette, with a very fine point at one end and an india-rubber nipple at the other, and similar to those used for the determination of the opsonic index. A unit mark is made at about one inch from the tip, and two volumes of the dilution of the serum or urine are taken and one of the blood or emulsion or red cor- puscles. These are mixed together and sucked up into the pipette. This is examined by reflected light to determine whether the corpuscles are completely hremolysed : if this is the case the fluid will be translucent and appear dark by reflected Hght, whereas if the corpuscles are intact it will be opaque and appear much lighter by reflected light. When a series of these dilutions is made and sucked into one pipette (each separated by a small column of air), the point at which complete haemolysis occurs is readily seen. In health, or in the absence of renal disease, the urine should contain a greater amount of salts, etc., than the serum, and thus should require greater dilution in order to bring about complete haemolysis. Thus if the urine just hsemolyses when diluted 16 times with distilled water, the serum ought to do so when diluted about 8 times : the excretory coefficient is then = 2. This coefficient is usually about 2'2 when the kidneys are healthy : when they are diseased it may fall to i or lower. In order to get reliable information the patient should not have drunk copiously immediately before the samples are taken, and his food for some time pre- viously should contain a fair amount of salts, otherwise the kidneys may not be called upon to perform as much work as they are capable of doing. When performed in this way the test appears, as far as our experience has