WOUNDS 110 example is bleeding from the socket of a tooth after the latter has been extracted. Cases of this kind require the application of a graduated compress ; a tiny piece of gauze or lint is placed on the bleeding point, then pieces are added, gradually increasing in size until a conical pad is formed, the outer part of which projects well above the surface. Then pressure is apphed through the cone actually on to the bleeding point by means of a bandage, or, in the case of a tooth, by fixing the two jaws together. Temporary Pressure by Forceps.—The hemorrhage from small vessels can often be arrested by pinching them tightly in strong forceps, such as Spencer Wells's, or, perhaps even better, those devised by Greig Smith (see Fig. 29). If the various bleeding points be compressed in this way as the operation proceeds and the forceps be left on, it will be found that, by the time the operation is completed and the forceps are removed, few of the vessels bleed and require ligature. Thus, a great deal of time is saved in the course of a long operation. In severe and protracted operations such, for example, as amputation of the breast, it is very important to examine the whole of the wound for bleeding points just before the sutures are inserted. In these opera- tions the blood pressure often falls very low while the axilla is being cleared oirt and many vessels stop bleeding only to bleed again as the patient recovers. Again, when an operation has been conducted in the Trendelenburg position, it is important to lower the patient to the hori- zontal before commencing to close the wound. Unless this be done, vessels may commence bleeding which had stopped while the patient was in the inverted position, and serious haemorrhage may result. Horsley's Wax.—Sir Victor Horsley has introduced an aseptic wax for use in bleeding from bone, which can be applied over the bleeding point, so as to close the hole in the bone from which the blood comes. The composition of this wax is : Beeswax, 7 parts; almond oil, i part; and salicylic acid, i part. When not in use, the wax is kept in a vessel of I in 20 carbolic solution. When it is required for use, a small piece is pinched off, softened by rolHng it between the fingers, which, of course, should be aseptic, and then pressed well into the part of the bone from which the blood is coming. The wax does not give rise to any trouble in the heahng of the wound. Cold.—There are various other ways in which bleeding maybe arrested, and which are specially applicable to oozing from small vessels or capil- laries which cannot be controlled by the means already mentioned. The chief of these are those methods that bring about contraction of the coats of the vessel, especially cold. The application of cold to the skin over a bleeding part will lead to contraction of the cutaneous vessels, and reflexly to contraction of those of the deeper parts. For example, in operations about the mouth or hps, such as those for cleft palate or hare- lip, bleeding can often be quickly arrested by douching the face with iced