313 CLUB-FOOT congenital talipes equino-varus is the result. Congenital club-foot may also be associated with imperfect development of the bones of the leg ; thus absence of the fibula may give rise to a tahpes valgus, and absence of the tibia may give rise to a talipes varus. The latter condition is very rare. In most cases of congenital talipes there is imperfect development of some of the bones of the foot. This is most marked in the astragalus and takes the form of an actual alteration in the axes of the bones ; at first, at any rate, the muscles are not altered in length. In addition to the alteration in the shape of the bones, shortening of some of the hgaments occurs rapidly, and if the deformity be uncorrected, the shortening of the ligaments becomes still more marked as time goes on, whilst the muscles, accommodating themselves to the altered position of the limb, may also become permanently altered in length. It is of great importance in the treatment to remember that, while we have only to do with a faulty shape and position of the bones in the early stages, in later life there is, in addi- tion, a permanent shortening of the muscles, fasciae, and ligaments. The bony deformity increases and becomes permanent and, if the patient be allowed to attain adult life with the foot in its faulty position, the shape of the bones and the position of their articular surfaces are so com- pletely altered that some radical operation is required to rectify the condition. Of acquired elub-foot there are numerous causes. The most frequent form is the paralytic, resulting from the paralysis of certain groups of muscles, generally due to infantile paralysis ; the muscles most frequently affected are those of the front and outer aspects of the leg. As a sequel to the loss of power in the muscles, the foot assumes a faulty position by its mere weight. Later on, the unaffected muscles become shortened, their action being unbalanced by the paralysed ones, and the condition present is then one of permanent contraction of the active muscles, and over-stretching and degeneration of the affected ones. As the case progresses, the structure and direction of the articular surfaces of the bones become altered unless steps be taken to keep the foot in proper position. Another cause of the paralytic form of the deformity is injury to a nerve trunk, such as a gun-shot or other wound, or a fracture involving the nerve. In other cases, the deformity may result from spastic con- traction of certain muscles due to various causes, such as affections of the central nervous system. Talipes may also be one of the manifestations of hysteria. Again, the deformity may be caused by myositis due to the presence of an inflammatory focus in the affected muscles or their vicinity which leads to their contraction, or it may result from inflammation in the neighbourhood of tendons giving rise to adhesions while the foot is in a faulty position. Occasionally also club-foot may be due to the condi- tion known as 'ischaemic paralysis ' (see Vol. II.).