GENU VALGUM knife and then turned transversely to the long axis of the femur. The line which the osteotome should follow runs obliquely downwards and inwards ; it must not be directed far enough downwards to injure the epiphyseal line. It is generally best to make the osteotome cut through about half of the cancellous bone in the centre of the diaphysis first of all ; then it should be withdrawn somewhat and made to divide the dense anterior surface, and finally it is made to divide the dense bone on the posterior aspect. All these incisions should be carried about half way through the bone, when the osteotome may be withdrawn, a sponge i:)laced over the wound, and the remainder of the bone fractured by bending the leg inwards. Osteotomy of the Tibia.—The best plan is to make a vertical incision commencing at the tubercle and running downwards along the crest for about an inch. This incision should be carried down to the bone, which is divided transversely with an osteotome, special care being taken to see that its inner side is cut through completely. The leg is then brought forcibly inwards, and, if sufficient i^ectification cannot be obtained in this way, the limb may be bent outwards again so as to fracture the outer side completely, when, on bringing the limb inwards once more, rectification can be obtained easily. Osteotomy of the Femur and Tibia combined.—The best rectification is obtained by dividing both the tibia and the femur, and in bad cases this is necessary to ensure a satisfactory result. It is a matter of opinion whether the two bones should be divided simultaneously or at intervals. We are inclined to think that it is better to perform the operation in two stages ; in the first the tibia is divided, and in the second, after the lapse of about six weeks, the femur. If the operations be performed in this order there is less danger at the second operation of re-fracturing the bone divided at the first, whilst a better rectification can be obtained if one bone be allowed to undergo consolidation before the second is divided. After-tyeaiment.—The small wound should be sutured, a dressing apphed, the limb brought straight and put upon a splint. We use a roll of Gooch's splinting properly padded ; the method of cutting it has already been referred to (see p. 369), but in the cases under consideration it is well to cut away a space for the heel so as to obviate all fear of pressure upon the os calcis. A large pad must be put over the internal condyle, and others over the outer side of the foot and ankle, so as to press the leg inwards. Another pad must be placed in front of the knee so as to prevent flexion of the joint (see Fig. 130). After the splint has been applied, the limb should be laid upon an inclined plane or a large pillow, so that the foot is \\e\Y raised. It is a common practice to apply a plaster of Paris bandage at this stage, but this has the disadvantage that great muscular wasting and laxity of the ligaments is commonl}' found when the bandage is removed.