CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP 395 which may either be employed when the non-operative one has failed or when the child is too old for it to be likely to succeed. In Infancy.—The existence of the deformity is often recognised in infancy ; the nurse calls the doctor's attention to something wrong in the hip-joint and the existence of a congenital dislocation is recognised. A radiogram will show at once whether there be a dislocation present or not. The clear space corresponding to the Y-cartilage in the acetabulum is always seen, and this should be opposite to the ecj^uator of the head of the femur. If there be a dislocation the head is above this line. The question then arises as to what steps are to be taken at this early age, since an essential point in the methods described below is that the patient shall be able to walk, and therefore it is seldom advisable, or indeed possible, to practise them until the child is two and a half or three years old. Some treatment, however, should be undertaken as soon as the nature of the case is recognised. Massage and manipiilaiions should be practised during the time that must elapse before the child is of a fit age for the treatment recommended below. In early infancy there is no difficulty in bringing the head of the bone down to its proper level and this should be done several times daily by the nurse, and will serve to prevent shortening of the muscles. When the head of the bone has been pushed well down, gentle outward rotation, with abduction and hyper- extension of the hmb.maybe carried out. If this treatment be persisted in, it should facilitate the subsequent reduction of the deformity. Some surgeons prefer to put the child up in an extension apparatus, but this is not so satisfactory as the method we have described, because it is impossible to fix an infant up properly, and moreover extension does not stretch the muscles in the various directions that are necessary. Lorenz's Non-Operative Method.—The object of this procedure is to bring the head of the femur down into position over the rudimentary acetabulum, to keep it there, and then to cause it to enlarge and deepen the rudimentary cavity by pressure and friction as the child walks, until a more normal acetabulum is formed. The first essential for success is that the patient should be young ; at the same time it is of primary importance that the child should have learnt to walk and also that it should be sufficiently cleanly in its habits to avoid soiling the bandages. After the child has reached the age of seven years, the chance of bringing the head of the femur successfully down over the acetabulum without an open operation is very slight, because of the shortening of the muscles, ligaments, and soft tissues generally, and therefore, if non-operative treatment is to succeed, it should be employed before this age. In young children it is often easy to get the head of the bone into position over the acetabulum without an open operation, but attempts to push it into the small slit that leads into the acetabulum generally fail, partly because of the tension on the front part of the capsule, and partly because the head of the femur is too large to pass through the slit. If, however, the