3o6 DEFORMITIES made to fit the cast accurately except over the heel, where it should be slightly flattened so as to make it steadier. A badly fitting apparatus extends either too far forwards or too far backwards, and causes so much pain that the patient is unable to wear it; when it fits properly, however, the patient soon becomes accustomed to it and cannot do without it. Sometimes it causes a little discomfort at first, and, until the patient has become accustomed to it, it should only be worn for short periods at a time, the length of time being gradually increased as tolerance is established. It should be worn in the house- shoes as well as in the boots, as long as there is any tendency to sinking in the arch of the foot. Fig. 96.—Boots for use in Flat Foot. A shows the obliquity of the heel from the back. B shews both the obliquity of the heel and the filling up of the waist of the boot by carrying the heel forward beneath the arch of the instep to join the sole. This is well seen in C, which is a view of the boot from its inner side. {Modified from Ho/fa.) Boots.—The sole of the boot should also be strengthened beneath the instep by continuing the heel forwards on the inner side until it meets the front part of the sole ; it is also of advantage to make the sole and heel thicker on the inner side than on the outer, so as to raise the inner border of the foot (see Fig. 96). The patient should be cautioned not to turn the toes out whilst walking ; they should be directed straight forwards, and the knees should be rotated slightly inwards. It is also well to direct the patient to raise himself on tip-toe from time to time when walking, and to walk rather upon the toes than flat upon the sole. He should not walk too far at first, and should never be allowed to continue walking until the foot feels tired; the amount of exercise should be prolonged gradually. When the condition is chronic, when there is but httle pain, and when the arch can be restored readily to its normal condition, it is