LOCAL ANESTHESIA 48o desire for food, or if the sickness be very persistent. In cases of collapse, marked emaciation and feebleness, etc., nutrient enemata should be given every two or three hours, commencing immediately before the opera- tion, rather than run any risk of irritating the stomach. The first food by the mouth should take the form of broth, beef-tea, or soup, in preference to milk, which is apt to form a hard indigestible curd which may irritate the stomach in its catarrhal condition. When the first food has been retained, the patient may return by degrees to the ordinary diet, as far at any rate as the angesthetic is concerned. Delirium and excitement, when they occur, must be gently restrained, hnt the patient must not be tied down. In the case of lunatics, the feeble- minded, and even those with a previous historj' of mental disturbance, the friends should be warned that a recrudescence of the mental trouble occasionally occurs after the administration of any anaesthetic. PART II. LOCAL ANESTHESIA. PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. Whether pain be the result of disease or be caused by surgical inter- ference, the first and most natural impulse is to seek relief in local appli- cations ; we find, therefore, that such applications have been in vogue from the earliest times. The use of inhalations of the vapours of ether and chloroform quickly supplanted the less certain and somewhat empirical local methods formerly employed, and it is only during the last ten or fifteen years that the production of local anaesthesia has been systematically studied ; and it is even more recently that any attempts have been made to define its advantages and limitations. It is to Con- tinental and American surgeons that we are chiefly indebted for our knowledge of the subject ; in thi's country, the plans advocated have met with but a hmited amount of support. Advantages.—It is claimed for local anaesthetics that no previous preparation of the patient is required ; that they are, on the whole, more portable and more available than most general anaesthetics ; that they are easy of application ; that it is sometimes of advantage that the patient should be able to assist the surgeon in his manipulations, e.g. by forcing down a hernia ; that they can often be used when a general anaesthetic would be inadvisable, e.g. in cases of collapse, and when the patient has an unnatural dread of a general anaesthetic ; that, on the whole, some of the methods are safer, and are less likely to be followed by dis-