WOUNDS 136 be approximated ; this may interfere materially with healing. Again, when a strong layer of fascia, such as the fascia lata, has been divided, it is advisable to suture this before the wound is closed. Sometimes deep sutures may be required to relieve tension upon the skin-edges where a delicate scar is of importance (see p. 137). Sutures.—The choice of the material for stitches is determined by the asepticity of the wound and the amount of tension upon its edges. As we are now deaUng only with aseptic wounds, we shall only consider the question of stitches in {a) those in which there is no tension on the edges; (b) those in which the tension is great; and (c) those in which it is only moderate in amount. It is well to bear in mind, in connection with wounds on the face or neck, that more unsightliness is produced by the stitch-marks after healing by first intention than by the cicatrix itself; therefore, under these circumstances, the avoidance of stitch-marks is a matter of considerable importance. Whatever be the material used for stitches it must be sterile ; this point is fully dealt with on p. 93, where the method of preparing, storing, and using each is detailed. (a) When there is no Tension.—When there is no tension on the edges of the wound, and when as delicate a scar as possible is desired, as in operations upon the face and neck, the finest material only should be used, and the stitches should not be put closer together than is absolutely necessary to keep the edges in contact; they should be inserted as close to the line of incision as possible. Under these circumstances fine horse- hair or silkworm-gut is probably the best material to employ. The size of the stitch-marks may be reduced still further if a fine sewing-needle be employed. When, however, there is no special reason for avoiding stitch-marks, the best and quickest plan is to close the wound by a con- tinuous button-hole suture of fine silk, using the ordinary triangular straight needle. This suture is described and illustrated on p. 142. How to obtain a very fine Scar.—This is a point of importance in operations on the face and neck. The first essential point is the direction of the incision. The skin is not a homogeneous structure, but has distinct lines of cleavage which run roughly at right-angles to the long axis of the body. Their exact distribution is shown in Figs. 34 and 35. Incisions made along these hnes produce much finer scars than those made at right-angles to them. The second point is to avoid tension on the skin. To accompUsh this in some cases it is necessary to insert deep buried sutures so as to bring the deeper parts of the wound together. This is specially important when it has been necessary to remove portions of the skin. In operations on the neck it is well to suture the platysma and deep fascia with fine catgut. The third point is the method of inserting the sutures. Several methods may be adopted.