TUMOURS 262 the points where the growth seems to be most active. The best dressing for these cases is hiar's balsam painted directly on to the surface of the ngevus ; a thin layer of wool is then applied and some more of the balsam painted on. The dressing will fall off in about ten days and the punctures will be found healed. At this stage the neevus presents a speckled appearance, with white or pinkish spots scattered over its bright red surface. At the second operation another series of punctures is made between the first, and the process is continued until the whole of the naevus has become converted into scar tissue. This method is particularly applicable where an excision of a wide area of skin is inadvisable—e.g. when a naevus nearly encircles a limb, lies over a joint, or is in the neighbourhood of the eyelids. Little contraction is caused, the resulting scar being often only slightly larger than the original naevus. Freezing. — This method has only been introduced recently. Al- though there is usually a certain amount of tissue destruction, the efficacy of the method depends upon the reaction which follows the freezing, and thus differs from the effect of the actual cautery. Liquid air is often employed for the freezing, but it is difficult to store and not very manageable in use. Probably the best agent is solid carbonic acid, which can be tia. 65.—Method of Applying the Solid Stick of Carbon Dioxide, obtained in the form of a solid stick and can be cut to any shape. This has the additional advantage that pressure can be combined with extreme cold ( - 79° C). The carbonic acid can be purchased as a liquid in the large cylinders used for the preparation of mineral waters ; on opening the tap of the cylinder the Hquid carbonic acid escapes, and evaporates so quickly that intense cold is produced, which freezes the liquid into a soft snow. A simple method of preparing the solid stick is described by Morton. A huckaback towel is rolled round a wooden ruler, and the latter is with- drawn from the tube of towelling, which is destined to act as a mould for the carbonic-acid stick, and one end of the tube is closed by a loosely fitting cork. The gas cylinder is placed upon a table with the delivery pipe pointing downwards, and the foot of the cylinder raised about six inches so as to allow the liquid contents to flow towards the tap ; the open end of the towel mould is then placed over the