INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 68 parts become liquefied and separate from the living tissues and, in the case of a limb, from the bone as a dark, slimy, foul-smelling mass. If the patient lives, there is marked redness round the edge of the gangrene and rapid formation of a line of demarcation. Moist gangrene produces much more severe disturbance to the system than does the dry form. TREATMENT—Local.—To a great extent the treatment of gangrene depends upon the cause of the particular form, but it will be of advantage to refer here to some general principles. From what has been said as to the difference in the symptoms in moist and dry gangrene, it is evident that if the gangrenous part be not removed, the most important point in the treatment is to try to prevent the septic decomposition which will otherwise take place, and from this point of view it is important to favour the production of the dry form as much as possible. Hence, if it be suspected that gangrene is about to occur, e.g. when the circulation in a part does not recover reasonably soon after embolism or ligature of an artery, the skin should be shaved and thoroughly disinfected in the usual manner (see p. lOO). Special attention should be paid to the nails, which should be cut short ; the folds of skin under and about them should be scrubbed with extreme care. It should be borne in mind that the organ- isms in dust have to be guarded against, as well as the pyogenic and other pathogenic organisms. An antiseptic dressing designed to prevent decomposition and at the same time to allow drying of the part should then be applied. The best is the one we usually employ for wounds, viz. a large mass of cyanide gauze wrung out of a weak antiseptic, such as a I in 4000 sublimate solution, outside which a thick layer of freshly sterilised salicyclic wool is applied. This dressing permits drying, and should not be disturbed unless it be desired to ascertain whether death has occurred, or unless discharge comes through. Above all things the use of oint- ments should be avoided, because they prevent the evaporation of the fluids, and so keep the gangrenous part moist. The limb should be placed on a water-pillow and slightly elevated. The question of amputation will be considered in connection with the individual forms of gangrene. General.—Concentrated and easily digested food, such as various extracts of beef, meat juice, lean underdone minced meat, chicken, game, fish, etc., must be administered. Stimulants are usually necessary; the best is brandy, or, if there be no diabetes, champagne. Drugs, especially opium, will be required to relieve the pain, and the free evacuation of the bowels must be secured. The urine should be examined for sugar, diacetic acid, acetone, and for albumen, and if any of those compounds be found, the necessary diet and treatment must be adopted. ETIOLOGICAL CLASSIFICATIOlSr.—We may now pass on to the consideration of the etiological classification of gangrene, according to which there are three great varieties, termed respectively, direct, indirect, and specific gangrene. By direct gangrene is meant gangrene of a part