TUMOURS OF THE CELLULAR TYPE The difference between radical operations for carcinoma and sarcoma respectively depends on the mode of spread of the disease in the two cases. In both the incisions should pass through healthy tissues at some distance from the disease ; in both any organ in which the tumour started should be completely removed; and in both, if glands be infected, a similarly free removal of lymphatics and glands is indicated. A difference arises, however, in the two forms as regards the latter point. In the case of sarcomata the glands need only be removed when they are evidently affected ; in carcinomata the neighbouring lymphatic area must be cleared out in any case A radical operation should be recommended when it is possible to remove all the visible disease with a reasonable chance of non-recurrence and of prolongation of life, and without such mutilation as to make life unendurable. It is unnecessary to remark that the patient should never be advised to submit to what purports to be a radical operation unless the surgeon has every reason to beheve that he can remove all the visible disease; but it frequently happens that, while this is possible, the operation may probably be followed by early recurrence, or certainly by most serious mutilation. A good example of such a case as this is an operation for cancer involving the larynx and pharynx. Apart from the great probability of early recur- rence, the miserable condition in which the patient will be left must be taken fully into account. If he be well-to-do, and able to have the necessary attendance, and if his pursuits be intellectual, he may be fairly content to live under such conditions ; but a man without financial or intellectual resources will suffer so greatly that a temporary prolongation of life under such circumstances offers no real recompense for the sufferings entailed by the operation. The patient ought always to be fully informed of the extent of the operation, the chances of recurrence, and the final functional result, before he comes to a decision, and this decision should be left to him ; the surgeon should content himself with placing the facts fully before him. There is no method except operation by which malignant disease other than rodent ulcer can be eradicated. Rodent ulcer is a form of local mahgnant disease with a distinct life-history, and is in many in- stances apparently cured by radium. There is no evidence, however, that any of the other forms of malignant disease can be cured by this or any other substance, and it is unjustifiable to subject a case favourable for operative treatment to any other method in the first instance. Partial Operations. — It is never desirable merely to cut away a portion of a tumour, but it is sometimes well worth while to remove a primary growth, even though irremovable secondary growths may be present ; similarly it may sometimes be advisable to remove secondary growths that are causing suffering, even though the primary growth cannot be excised. These statements, however, are subject to the qualification that it is not advisable to remove a mass which is likely to recur siiu