423 SCOLIOSIS (ry) Cases in which the curvature cannot be diminished by suspension.—■ In these cases sucli severe changes have taken place in the spmal cohimn that it is hopeless to attempt any rectitication, and the utmost that can be done is to prevent the affection from increasing and to treat any symptoms, such as pain, that may be complained of. Spinal Supports.—In order to prevent the increase of the curvature, a support of some kind is invaluable, and perhaps the best is a poroplastic jacket strengthened with light steel rods moulded to the thorax during extension of the spine and laced in position. This takes off the super- incumbent weight of the thorax, and will often reheve the pain caused by the narrowing of the intercostal spaces or the approximation of the ribs to the crest of the ihum. Even in these cases muscular exercises are of value, and, if carried out against resistance, are calculated to relieve the pain from which the patient suffers, by strengthening the muscles. Little hope, however, can be held out that any amount of muscular exercises or stretching of the spine will produce much effect upon the ciu'vature. Theoretically it is possible that prolonged extension of the spine might influence its shape, but practically this is almost impossible. The Scoliosis of Adult Life.—The condition met with here is precisely similar to that in the group of cases just described, except that the bone changes are perhaps more marked and are more permanent. The treatment is identical with that described above. MUSCULAR EXERCISES.' It is not intended that every case shall perform all the exercises. The system is intended to present rather a materia medica of exercises, from which the surgeon can prescribe those which he considers best for each case. The cases will always have a large number of symmetrical exercises, but the number and kind of asymmetrical exercises will be prescribed according to the degree and direction of the deformity. Generally the exercises should be performed twice daily for a period not usually exceeding half an hour. Children must be made to learn the exercise gradually, two or three new ones being added at each lesson as the previous ones are learnt and well done. The chief advantage of the following system is, that the essential part of it may be done at home. Before practising the exercises, however, the patient and one of his relations, if the patient is a child, should be properly instructed by a skilled person—e.g. a doctor or a gymnastic master. More rapid progress is, however, made by having one of the daily lessons performed at a gymnasium, even where not more of the apparatus than would be fitted up in the patient's house is used. The patient will then be sure of having at least one lesson efficiently, properly, and regularly performed. As the strength improves, more rapidity is obtained in the improvement by the use of the new developing machines. The gymnasium is very advantageous, but the whole cure can be done at home, and need not interfere with lessons or any other business. ' These are taken verbatim from Dr. Percy Lewis's book on The Relief a>id Cure of Spinal Curvatures (London, 1897). The small illustrative figures are derived from the same source.