EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD 500 In health the accepted average numbers of red corpuscles are, for the male, 5,000,000 per cubic millimetre, and for the female 4,500,000, but these numbers are not infrequently exceeded, especially in dwellers in the country. The chief use of this investigation for the surgeon is that it provides some measure of the amount of blood lost in a haemorrhage, and enables its regeneration to be watched. When blood is lost the loss involves corpuscles and plasma in equal proportions, and an examination im- mediately afterwards wiU show no deviation from the normal. In a short time, however, fluid will be absorbed from the tissues, so that the volume of the blood is restored to its former amount, and, when this has occurred, the ratio of the number of red corpuscles present to 5,000,000 may be taken as a rough guide to the amount of blood lost; thus, in the example quoted, where the number per cubic millimetre was 2,600,000, very nearly half the total amount must have escaped. The process of blood re- generation almost invariably begins by a rise in the number of red cor- puscles, which occurs earlier and proceeds more quickly than the increase in the amount of haemoglobin ; the first corpuscles, which are manu- factured by the bone-marrow in response to the unusual demand, being less rich in pigment than they should be. The haemoglobin is, however, the important substance, and more information as to the way in which the regeneration of the blood is proceeding can be obtained by estimating the amount of this substance than by counting the corpuscles.1 The most useful apparatus for measuring the amount of haemoglobin is Haldane's haemoglobinometer, which is a modification of that of Gowers. Its use involves access to coal-gas ; and as this is not always procurable in the country, it is advisable to procure a combination instru- ment in which both forms are available. They differ only in the standard which is employed for comparison. In Gowers's instruments this consists of a tube containing a jelly tinged with carmine to a tint representing normal healthy blood diluted 100 times. In Haldane's the standard (A) is a solution of CO haemoglobin of definite strength and representing normal blood diluted 100 times, and saturated with CO or coal-gas. To use either form, place a little water in the diluting tube (B) ; prick the patient as before ; suck blood up to the transverse mark on the special pipette (D) ; place the tip of this pipette in the water in the diluting tube and blow out the blood, washing out the last traces by sucking up the water once or twice and expeUing it. Shake gently so as to mix the blood and water together. In using Gowers's haemoglobinometer, place the standard in a good light alongside of the diluting tube : the solution of blood in this should be decidedly darker than the standard, and, if this is not the case, too ' Some observers estimate the specific gravity of the blood instead of the amount of haemoglobin, the two being in general closely related. The estimation of the specific gravity is, however, more difficult, and is rarely required.