INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 58 After-treatment.—It will be found that, even at the first dressing, the grafts present a pink colour and are adherent to the deeper surface, though they are still readily detachable. In the course of about a week the old cuticle peels off, but no raw surface is left. Later on, there is a great tendency to the formation of new epithehum, cornification, and drying-up, and it is in avoiding the latter condition that ointments are so useful. In fact, till the scar is absolutely sound, it is well to keep the surface covered with some greasy apphcation, the best being the half- strength boric ointment. For many months the grafted surface is likely to scale or crack and this might prove a starting-point for the occurrence of sepsis which would cause the newly grafted area to slough. It is important to keep the scar as supple as possible, and therefore it should be constantly anointed with cold-cream, vaseline, or lanoline. Grafted surfaces upon the face, however, do not betray this tendency for any length of time. Time required for Cure.—It is important to know when the patient may be allowed to walk about after an ulcer of the leg has been skin- grafted. If he begins too soon, the grafts will almost certainly become detached. That this will be so, is evident from a consideration of the mode by which the adhesion of the grafts takes place. At first they adhere to the surface of the sore simply by means of the effused and coagulated lymph. Cells rapidly spread into this lymph, and in the course of two or three days, the space between the graft and the raw surface is occupied by a mass of young cells. In this tissue young blood-vessels develop and penetrate into the grafts, whilst, at the same time, the cells of the grafts grow and assist in the development of the young tissue and of the blood-vessels. Thus the graft becomes vascularised; but for a con- siderable time the tissue between it and the surface of the sore contains many young blood-vessels with delicate walls, and therefore, if the patient stands erect and allows the pressure of the column of blood to tell on these vessels, they rupture, and bleeding occurs beneath the graft and leads to its detachment. It requires a long time before the graft is firmly incorporated with the tissue beneath by the development of elastic fibres ; indeed, it may be reckoned that this union is not com- plete until from three to six months have elapsed. The graft will in all probability be destroyed if the patient walks about within three months of the grafting. Hence, unless that time can be devoted to the treat- ment, it is not worth while employing skin-grafting for ulcers of the lower limbs. By this, however, it is not implied that it is necessary to keep the patient in bed for the whole time, but merely that the foot must not be allowed to hang down, nor must any weight be borne upon it. At the end of about six weeks the patient may be allowed to get up and lie on a sofa or sit with the leg on another chair, but the limb must not be permitted to hang down. At the end of about three months he may be allowed to get about, but in order to prevent the detachment of