WOUNDS 196 to bear any more severe procedure, but free drainage of the joint often suffices ; in these successful cases the patient may even recover the full movements of the joint. The injection of antistreptococcic serum has been tried in these cases, but it is difficult to say much about its value. If it be used, full doses should be given twice a day for three or four days (see p. 173). These cases are, however, much moi e suitable for treatment by vaccines (see Appendix) than by serum. ERYSIPELAS. Erysipelas is a febrile disease caused by a streptococcus, and charac- terised by a well-defined spreading redness of the skin. SYMPTOMS.—The disease usually commences from four days to a week after the operation or injury, but it may occur as early as the first or the second day. The wound through which the organisms gain entrance to the lym- phatics need not be extensive ; it is often a mere prick with an infected instrument, or an insect bite, and may have healed completely before the onset of the disease. There are usually certain premonitory symptoms preceding the actual attack, such as malaise, headache, loss of appetite, and a feeling of tension and pain about the wound ; this may be followed by a rigor. In other cases the disease may begin suddenly with a severe rigor, without any premonitory symptoms. However it may be ushered in, the attack is followed by a rapid rise of temperature to about 104° F., headache, nausea or vomiting, a rapid soft pulse, a foul tongue, great thirst, scanty urine, diminution of the discharge from the wound, and swelling of the neighbouring lymphatic glands, to which there may be red lines running from the wound. Occasionally there is active delirium. In from ten to twenty-four hours after the rigor a dark red or crimson blush, which is sharply marked off from the surrounding parts, appears around the wound, and the reddened portion is somewhat swollen. The redness increases and usually spreads along the course of the lymphatic vessels— that is to say, towards the trunk. The margin of the rash can be felt as a distinct raised ridge. Where the tissues are lax, as in the eyelids or the scrotum, the swelling may be very great, and bullae may form upon the surface ; bullce may also appear, although not so frequently, when the trunk or limbs are affected. During the course of the disease there is often albuminuria. In about six or eight days there is generally a rapid fall of the temperature, which has remained high during the acute period. The constitutional phenomena disappear, the appetite im- proves, the redness gradually fades, and usually dies away by the middle of the second week ; finally desquamation occurs. This desquamation is of great importance, because it is in the scales of epidermis that the chief source of the erysipelas infection is to be found. After recovery recrudescence of the disease is common. In bad cases the disease