467 ADMINISTRATION IN SPECIAL CASES the hand suffices to drive out a capillary stream of the liquid, which may either be used for freezing or directed into a proper receptacle for inhalation. It is also sent out in hermetically scaled capsules of 3 or 5 c.c., which may be broken as required. When employed by itself for inhalation, 3-5 c.c. are dropped into a bag or other form of closed inhaler. Its action is very rapid and complete, but as some fatalities have attended its use it has lately fallen into disrepute. I believe myself that these accidents are largely due to faulty methods of administration; such a powerful drug ought not to be administered in a closed inhaler or bag. For some years I have used it almost invariably as a preliminary to the introduction of the mixture, and have had practically no trouble with it. My plan is to spray from 8 to 10 c.c. on the sponge of a mask (Fig. 208) from below, apply it the face, and directly the breathing becomes slightly stertorous, or there are any other indications of loss of consciousness, pour a full dose (3]—5jss) of the A.C.E. or similar mixture on the sponge, from above. The chief advantage of this method is the rapidity with which consciousness is abolished ; I think, too, that the stage of e.xcitement is always curtailed, and often disappears completely. ADMINISTRATION IN SPECIAL CASES. Under certain conditions, some slight departure from the ordinary routine methods of administration seems to be desirable, but space will not permit of more than a passing reference to these cases, and this reference may most conveniently take the form of indicating my own practice in the matter. In intra-cranial operations, antesthesia is induced in the recumbent position, and the body is raised slowly and cautiously to an angle of about 45°. Chloroform or a mixture is used throughout, and only just enough anaesthetic is given to keep the patient quiet. His disease renders him very susceptible to an over-dose, and at the same time makes him less susceptible to actual pain. Operations about the Nose and Mouth.—In such short opera- tions upon the nasal passages as the removal of turbinated bodies, etc., the operator often considers it better for the patient to be sitting up, in which case, of course, nitrous oxide, with or without the addition of oxygen or ether, is the best anaesthetic, and as soon as possible the body should be pushed well forward, so that the head may hang over a basin placed between the knees, when the blood will run out of the nose and mouth. A somewhat similar position and procedure will, in the opinion of some surgeons, suffice for the removal of tonsils or adenoids, but when the choice is left to the anaesthetist, I must confess that I have a preference for the plan of lightly anaesthetising the patient in the re- cumbent position with Mixture, and turning him on the right side as the operation proceeds. Use of Junker's Inhaler with Tube.—In long operations about the buccal cavity, e.g., removal of the tongue, I prefer to induce anaesthesia to a tolerably profound degree with Mixture, and to maintain it with H H 2