321 TALIPES EQUINUS the periosteum is separated and the requisite amount of bone removed. It is well to make the section of the tibia oblique, so as to provide a larger surface for coaptation and fixation. The fibula should be cut across with bone forceps or a saw in the first instance, and when the required amount of the tibia has been removed it will be seen how much of the fibula must be excised. Full details of the methods of fixing the ends of the bone are given in connection with Ununited Fractures (see Vol. II.). The limb should be put up with the foot at a riglit angle, and any lateral displace- ment remedied by side splints ; in a fortnight the sphnts may be replaced by a suitable plaster of Paris casing which should be kept on for at least eight weeks. Owing to the slowness with which union occurs under these circumstances it is impossible to dispense with the apparatus earlier, and, owing to the liability to non-union after an operation of this kind, it is useless to attempt to promote the movements of the ankle joint until the union of the bones of the leg is complete. As soon as this has occurred, passive movement must be begun, and it will usually be found that the degree of mobility present in the ankle before the operation will still remain. Careful movement and massage, and later on forcible movements under an anaesthetic, may possibly increase the range of movement thus obtained. When the ulceration, or the burn, is situated upon the foot itself, the bone calling for removal will generally be the astragalus, but the actual operation required will depend upon the nature of the deformity and the situation of the cicatrix. In some cases amputation will be the better practice, but no definite rules can be laid down, on account of the great variety of conditions that may be met with. THE INDIVIDUAL FORMS OF CLUB-FOOT. TALIPES EQUINUS. In this form the heel is drawn up and the toes are pointed. The condition is rarely congenital ; it usually results from some inflamma- tion in the calf muscles or in their vicinity, which leads to their contrac- tion. It may also be a sequel to infantile paralysis affecting the anterior group of leg muscles, cicatricial contraction of ulcers or wounds in the calf of the leg, or to pointing of the foot during a long illness, in which care has not been taken to keep the pressure of the bed-clothes off the toes. It may also occur in connection with disease of the ankle or the tarsal joints in which a secondary contraction of the muscles of the calf has occurred. Talipes equinus varies in degree ; sometimes the heel ma}^ be drawn up to such an extent that the sole of the foot is almost in the same plane as the back of the leg ; sometimes the chief trouble is that the foot cannot be dorsi-flexed beyond a right angle. In the severe cases the I. y