137 TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS Buried Sutures.—An excellent way of introducing a buried suture is to take a curved Hagedorn needle, threaded with the finest catgut, and pass it through the fat and deeper part of the dermis on one side of the wound, and then through the fat and deeper part of the dermis on the other, the needle being made to enter the fat and emerge through the dermis on the one side, and vice versa on the other. Several stitches Fig. 36.—A Buried Suture. The figure shows how, by making the free end of the suture emerge on each side tlirough the deeper part of the dermis and the adjacent subcutaneous tissues, the Itnot can be pushed out of the way among the fat when it is tied. If it were done in the reverse way the knot would lie between the lips of the incision, and would interfere with coaptation. The ends of the suture are cut short and pushed down out of the way with a probe. are passed, and they are then tied and the ends cut short, the knot being pushed down into the fatty tissues beneath the dermis (see Fig. 36). These sutures hold the deeper parts of the skin firmly together. A strip of gauze is then fi.xed upon one side of the wound with collodion, and when this is dry, the skin on the other side is pressed inwards towards the line of incision and the free end of the gauze strip is fastened down Fig. 37.—Halsted's Intra-dermic Suture.—The suture, which is commenced at one end of the incision, is grasped in a pair of pressure forceps, passeii across and across the wound in the substance of the dermis and finally brought out at the opposite end of the incision. The wound is closed by making traction on tlie ends of the suture. upon it with coUodion. As far as the gauze and collodion are concerned, the procedure closely resembles the old-fashioned method of applying strapping to draw the edges of wounds together, and is similar to the plan that is often adopted in hare-hp operations. The epithelial edges are thus approximated, and stitch-marks are absolutely avoided, so that only a very dehcate linear scar is left, which in a short time becomes unnoticeable.