ADMINISTRATION OF NITROUS OXIDE 451 should be removed immediately the slightest twitching or stertor occurs. The after-effects of nitrous oxide may be said to be practically nil, and this is one of its great advantages. Neurotic patients are sometimes hysterical, very rarely there is a little sickness, but, in by far the majority of cases, the patient is quite able to leave the house, or walk about within ten minutes or a quarter of an hour of the inhalation. PROLONGED NITROUS OXIDE ANESTHESIA.—Various plans have been suggested for increasing the anaesthetising power of nitrous oxide gas. In operations not involving the mouth or nose, the ana3sthesia may often be much prolonged by allowing the patient an occasional breath of air directly the twitching ap- pears. In dental and other mouth cases, the supply of nitrous oxide may be main- tained by means of a cap fitted over the nose, as suggested by Coleman and Paterson (see Fig. 198). Of late years I have employed this method almost as a matter of routine for women and children, not only to maintain, but also to induce anaesthesia for dental work. The mouth is propped open, the cap fitted over the nose and a slight plus pressure is maintained in the bag. Contrary to what might be expected, anaesthesia is apt to be induced, if anything, too rapidly and the patient must be carefully watched. In adult males, and in some fat, flabby females who breathe badly through the nose, the inhalation should be started with the ordinary facepiece, quickly changing the latter for the nosepiece directly the twitching develops. On the whole I have found this plan extremely satisfactory. Other forms of apparatus for this purpose have been introduced by Trewby and others. Adopting the view that the lividity, muscular twitching, and some of the other phenomena are indications of oxygen starvation, and, assuming that these phenomena are always objectionable, it has been proposed to administer a mi.xture of nitrous oxide and oxygen. In the apparatus that Sir Frederic Hewitt has designed the nitrous oxide and the oxygen are contained in separate bags, and provision is made for very gradual admixture of these gases through small holes in the stop-cock. The facepiece being accurately adjusted, the nitrous oxide mixed with the oxygen from one or two holes is breathed from the beginning, and the G G 2 Fig. 198.—Paterson's Nosepiece. and valves. C, Nosepiece. A, Three-way stopcock Fig. 199. —Hewitt's ' Gas and O.xY' GEN ' .\prARATUS. B and D, double baj for oxygen and nitrous oxide. C, three way tube fitted witli small holes for regu lating supply of oxygen. E, facepiece.