499 THE IODINE REACTION cachectic anaemia supervenes. In tuberculosis tliere may be a slight leucopenia with a relative lymphocytosis, but this is rarely sufficient for a diagnosis : in a small proportion of cases a diagnosis may be made from the opsonic index. The study of the iodine reaction or glycogenic degeneration of the leucocytes is simple, and often leads to valuable results. Films are pre- pared as before and mounted (without pre\'ious fixation) in They are allowed to stain for ten minutes, the excess of the fluid blotted off, and they are examined under a -{Vth. in. lens, using white light. Normally the protoplasm of the pol3aiuclears should be a pale yellow, but in acute inflammatory conditions, more especially if severe enough to lead to suppuration, they show deep mahogany brown granules or masses, or may stain a diffuse brown colour. This reaction occurs when the total count is not raised. It may be present in other conditions, but its absence in appendicitis and similar diseases is strong evidence of the absence of a suppurative lesion. THE EXAMINATION OF THE RED CORPUSCLES AND HEMOGLOBIN. The enumeration of the red corpuscles is a simple but somewhat tedious proceeding, and is rarely of much value to the surgeon. The process is exactly the same as that used in the enumeration of the leuco- cytes—in fact, it is now customary to count both the red and the white corpuscles in the same specimen. It is necessary to count the number of red corpuscles which lie on loo of the small squares into which the Thoma counting-chamber is ruled. This may be done by counting the squares singly and noting down each result, or by counting the corpuscles which lie in each horizontal ' bar ' of twenty squares. It will then be necessary to count the corpuscles lying on five such bars. The calculation ■—presuming that the blood has been diluted loo times—is then very simple : the total number in loo squares, multiplied by 4000, gives the number per cubic millimetre. Thus, if 650 corpuscles were found in the hundred squares, the number per cubic milUmetre would be 650 x 4000 = 2,600,000. Greater accuracy will be obtained by preparing a second specimen and counting another 100 squares therein : the two results are to be added together and multiplied by 2000. THE IODINE REACTION. Iodine Iodide of potassium Mucilage of gum acacia I part. 3 parts. 100 parts. (This solution must be freslily prepared.) K K 2