OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT undesirable in cases of tumours or of suppuration, as in them the elastic bandage is apt to squeeze pus or tumour substance into the tissues or vessels during its apphcation, and thus serious results may be caused. Lister's Method.—On the other hand, the plan mtroduced by Lord Lister, of elevating the limb for a few minutes before applying the elastic tourniquet, suffices to empty the limb of blood. If the limb be elevated, the veins collapse immediately, and the main arteries contract retlexly, so that the limb becomes practically bloodless if the elevated position be maintained for two or three minutes. When this has been done and while the limb is still raised, india-rubbei' tubing is wound hrmly around its upper part. In this way, it is easy to obtain a field of operation as free from blood as by Esmarch's method without any risk of dis- seminating pus or tumour substance. It is onlv in a few cases that this l:)loodless plan is of real advantage. It is of great value in operations such as suture of nerves or tendons, where delicate dissection would be marred by the presence of blood in the wound. In amputations, too, it is valuable, as the main vessel and its larger branches can be tied before the bl(Jod is allowed to flow through the vessels again. It is also useful in operations for necrosis, as it allows the surgeon to distinguish easily between the living and the dead structures ; but it is not so good in cases of tuberculous joints, where the accurate recognition of the diseased tissues depends to a considerable extent on the vascularity of the part. Objections to 'Bloodless Methods.'—There is one great general objection to the use of Esmarch's bandage and the principle of bloodless operations generally. It is that, if the operation be a prolonged one, the after-bleed- ing is very severe, and the amount of blood lost by the patient is probably as great when the bandage is used as when it is not. Moreover, a longer time is spent over the operation, because an unduly large number of vessels must be tied, and it is not wise to sew up the wound until the oozing has stopped. When the bandage is removed, the vessels dilate, the limb flushes and becomes redder than its fellow, and there is a certain amount of vaso-motor paralysis, in consequence of which many vessels go on bleeding, and require ligature ; had the bandage not been used, this bleeding would have stopped almost immediately. Blood may also collect in the wound after it has been sutured, and interfere with union. Ligature.—Temporary.—In some cases haemorrhage is prevented by occluding the main vessels supplying the part either by means of a permanent ligature or by the application of a temporary ligature, digital compression, or Crile's clamips. In applying a temporary ligature care must be taken to injure the vessel as little as possible ; the ligature should be broad ; a piece of tape, a kangaroo tendon or a thin rubber band answer very well. It is best not to tie these temporary ligatures ; it is sufficient to make gentle traction upon the ends of the loop around the