Fig. 166. DEFORMITIES 428 erector spinae, glutei, psoas, and thigh muscles. Series G.—Movements made without Support. All the movements which have been done against the wall should at last be performed without such help ; also I. Breathing.—Hands clasped behind the waist, in- spire; hands still clasped but arms forcibly stretched downwards, expire (see Fig. 165). 2. Flexion of trunk.—Head straight, arms extended at sides of the head, bend the trunk forwards at the hips, so that the fingers, united by their palmar surfaces, touch the ground ; return to the previous attitude with the arms in the same position. The legs to remain very straight, the feet a little apart (see Fig. 166). The repe- titions of the movement to be separated by circular movements of the arms. Exercise of anterior abdominal, 3. Sit down slowly upon the heels with the arms extended horizontally in front ; recover to the standing position while letting the arms fall. Exercise of thigh, glutei, and erector spinae muscles. 4. Bend the trunk forwards, backwards, laterally, and lastly circularly, the hands resting upon the hips. Exercise of anterior, posterior, and lateral abdominal muscles, and erector spinae. 5. Separate the arms horizontally backwards as far as possible with inspiration ; bring them together in front with expiration. Exercise of pectorals, scapular muscles, and latissimus dorsi. 6. The untwisting exercise.—Patient standing, the arms straight and horizontal, and inclined as far as possible to the right, are rapidly m.oved across the body as far as possible to the left; the whole spine at the same time rotating to the left. Thus the hands describe about three-quarters of a circle in a horizontal plane. Maintain this position for a few moments, then allow the arms to fall and the spine to come into a position of rest. Exercise for rotation to the right. This is one of the most important and powerful of the asymmetrical movements. Its power is much increased by using the Dowd's machine (see Fig. 146). 7. Reverse the exercise. Exercise for rotation to the left. 8. For poking of the chin.—Patient sitting. Slowly bend head forwards until chin touches chest, then rapidly bend backwards as far as possible. Maintain the position a few seconds ; return slowly to position of rest. Exercise of complexus, trapezius, splenius, etc. 9. Patient sitting ; arms by side, simultaneously draws back both shoulders as far as possible, keeps them in this position whilst he counts four, and then allows them to return to original position. Exercise of scapular and latissimus muscles. 10. Patient sitting ; bends the body on to the thighs, then slowly rises again. Exercise of anterior abdominal, psoas and iliacus, and erector spinae muscles. 11. Patient standing opposite a wall and an arm's length from it, stretches out the arms horizontally in front, and applies the hands flat against the wall ; with- out moving his feet the patient slowly approaches his body to the wall by bending the arm on the forearm ; then he slowly recovers.