73 GANGRENE tissues are injured in paring a corn. Some trivial cause leads to inflam- mation, and, on account of the weak state of the tissues, this is followed by gangrene ; had the tissues been healthy, the inflammation would have passed off without any trouble. The first sign of gangrene is usually a small black spot which occurs in the centre of the inflamed area. The gangrene progresses very slowly, and it may be weeks or even months before more than the toes die. The appearances are those typical of dry gangrene (see p. 67). The patient for some time remains in a good state of health, and his chief complaint is the pain he suffers, which may be intense. As the result of this, he becomes sleepless, and after a time his pulse loses its fulness, and he gets restless. If the disease be allowed to run its course, the patient will in most cases die, worn out by pain and want of sleep, or from some septic complication which has its origin at the line of demarcation. In some cases, however, recovery takes place, the line of demarcation forming very slowly, and the dead part being cast off gradually. Treatment.—In describing the treatment of this form of gangrene, it is necessary to consider the prophylactic treatment as well as that called for when gangrene has actually set in. When an elderly patient com- plains of symptoms indicating imperfect circulation in the foot, and when on examination the vessels are found to be thickened, or devoid of pulsa- tion, pains should be taken to explain the danger, and to point out how slight are the injuries wliich may precipitate the onset of gangrene. The patient must not wear tight boots, and should be specially cautioned not to neglect any injury to the foot, however trivial it may appear. Above all he should be warned not to place his feet in hot baths or before a very warm fire, for the heat is apt to bring on gangrene owing to the imperfect state of the circulation. If his feet be very cold, he may place them in a bath of from 80° to 85° F., tested by a thermometer, and then have them gently rubbed with a soft bath-towel. He should wear warm stockings, and warm, light, fur-lined shoes or slippers. In bed he should wear tliick bed-socks, and the bed may be warmed with hot bottles, which however should either be taken away before he gets into bed, or removed to such a distance that his feet cannot reach them; in all cases the bottles should be wrapped up in thick flannel. The diet must be nourishing, and plenty of fresh air and light exercise should be insisted upon. Directly gaiigreiie has occurred, or rather as soon as it is evident that it is inevitable, the first essential in the treatment is to disinfect the part thoroughly and to favour evaporation of fluid from the tissues (see p. 68). Above all things, ointments, carbolic oil, and other greasy dressings should be avoided, and only those employed which permit drying of the part ; cyanide gauze next the skin, with some sterilised salicylic wool outside, forms the best dressing. The patient should remain in a recumbent position, with the foot kept warm and slightly elevated. The strength