409 SCOLIOSIS There should be no difficulty in diagnosing this condition from tuber- culous disease, as in scoliosis there is no rigidity and no tenderness on pressure over the affected vertebrae or on jarring down through the head. Moreover, except in rare cases, there is no projection backwards of the vertebra;. EXAMINATION.—In examining a subject of scoliosis in order to determine the treatment to be adopted, a certain routine should be gone through. The patient should be stripped to the hips and should stand in a position of ease with her back to the surgeon, the garments being fastened with a safety-pin to prevent them slipping down and to avoid the constant changes of position that accompany the endeavours to hold them up. The spinous processes should then be marked upon the skin with a carbon pencil and a sheet of paper pressed over them so as to obtain a per- manent record ; the marks made by the pencil will be transferred to the paper, which can be varnished and kept for reference. A slight de- viation of the spine is best detected by letting fall a plumb-line from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra. Any deviation of the spinous processes from the vertical can be measured. The next important point is to ascertain whether there is any obliquity of the pelvis. The patient is turned round, and the surgeon, standing or kneeling in front, places a thumb upon each anterior superior iliac spine and notes whether they are on the same horizontal level ; in case of doubt, the patient should stand quite erect, with the feet together, and the length of the lower extremities should then be measured from the anterior superior spine to the floor on each side. The presence of flat foot or knock knee should also be looked for. The next point is to determine what amount of alteration can be made in the curvature by alteration in jjosition; in other words, the flexibility of the spinal column is tested. The patient should be directed to hold herself as erect as possible, and any alteration in the curvature is then compared with the measurements taken in the position cf rest. In slight curvatures marked improvement is produced by the effort of standing to attention. Should the curvature be due to inequality in the length of the lower extremities, suitable blocks must be placed beneath the shortened limb so as to make the pelvis horizontal, and the effect upon the curvature noted. In early cases this will obliterate it entirely. The patient should next be suspended by the hands from a bar, with the feet just off the ground, so that the entire weight of the body is borne by the arms. A more accurate method is to use a trapeze with two bars, the upper one being three inches above the lower, hung just high enough to swing the patient free of the ground. The lower bar is grasped with the hand upon the side of the convexity, whilst the upper is laid hold of with the other ; this pulls upon the spinal column and tends to straighten