OPERATIONS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT 91 The operating table may be one of the many excellent varieties supplied by the instrument makers, but the essential points are, that it shall be simple in construction, that it shall be capable of being heated either by a water-tank underneath, by a series of hot bottles or radiant electric heaters, and that it shall be possible to obtain with it the Tren- delenburg position. It is also advisable for the table to be provided with a mechanism by which it can be raised or lowered. Tables for instruments, bowls of lotion, and other articles required for the operation must be provided. In an ordinary dwelling home, of course, all these conditions cannot be complied with, but a room can be easily cleaned sufficiently for the the purpose, without any undue disturbance of the domestic arrange- ments. If possible, the room should be prepared on the day before the operation, all pictures, furniture, etc., being removed, and should not be disturbed afterwards. When, however, an operation has to be performed as a matter of urgency, it is important not to disturb anything that is in the room more than is absolutely necessary ; the removal of furniture, pictures, or carpets is accompanied by a stirring-up of the dust lying upon them, and in an emergency it is better to leave things of this nature in their original position, and cover over everything with clean dust sheets. Operating tables, basins, and other appliances can be hired from the surgical instrument makers, and when feasible, this should be done; when this is impossible, they must be extemporised. Two long dressing tables placed together, so as to form a T, make a very good operating table. The patient lies upon the one forming the vertical limb of the T with his head and shoulders resting upon the transverse one. The table should be covered by a folded blanket, over which is placed a sheet, which in its turn is covered by a mackintosh opposite the area of the operation ; the whole table should not be covered. A number of bowls must be collected and, if possible, these should be boiled in a copper or large fish kettle. If a suitable vessel for boiling bowls cannot be obtained, they must be washed in ai in 20 carbolic oral in 500 sublimate solution. One or more small tables should be covered by mackintoshes, upon which are placed boiled towels wrung out of i in 20 carbolic or i in 2000 subhmate lotion ; these serve to hold the bowls, instruments, and appliances during the operation. Important as the operating theatre is, it must not be forgotten that a very small percentage of the cases which suppurate do so because of the bad surroundings under which the operation is undertaken ; indeed, operations can be and are performed with safety, or at least with a minimum risk, in badly constructed operating theatres or in the dirtiest of houses. The majority of suppurative cases originate from the intro- duction of organisms from the surgeon's hands, from ligatures, sponges or swabs, or from imperfect lotions and dressings.