187 SEPTIC INTOXICATION septics such as carbolic acid should not be used, because they cannot possibly disinfect the wound, and they may be absorbed and render the patient's condition still more serious; further, they cause the formation of a layer of coagulated albumen on the surface of the wound, beneath which the organisms are protected and may grow again. After the wound has been thoroughly washed out, a few stitches are again inserted and one or more large drainage-Uibes introduced to provide free escape for the discharge. The cyanide gauze and salicylic wool is probably as good a dressing as can be applied ; it should be changed and the wound washed out again through the drainage-tube in the course of a few hours. Whether an ancEsthetic should be given for the purpose of opening up and draining the wound depends on the condition of the patient. If he be in a very depressed state it is well to avoid it, as the procedure does not involve any great pain, and the anaesthetic might add to the depression. General Treatment.—Stimulants are indicated. BrcDidy may be given either by the mouth or by the rectum ; in desperate cases it may even be injected subcutaneously and under these circumstances ether in ten-to twenty-minim doses may be similarly used; the injection should be made into the muscles, for a slough is apt to form afterwards if it be merely introduced beneath the skin. Strychnine is of great value in this condition, a thirtieth of a grain being given subcutaneously and repeated hourly for two or three doses ; its action is often increased by the addition of a hundredth of a grain of digitaline to it. Under the combined influence of these drugs the pulse becomes much steadier, for a time at any rate, and the patient's condition improves. Ammonium carbonate (gr. ij-iij) or sal volatile (3ss) may be given hourly. Everything must be done to keep the patient alive for a few hours until the poison in the blood can be excreted. When the toxaemia is profound, saline infusion is of the greatest value in diluting and helping the excretion of toxins and in keeping up the blood-pressure. When the bowels are not irritable, this is best given by the drop method described in speaking of shock (seep. 115). When this plan is not feasible, about fifteen ounces of the saline solution may be injected into the axilla (in an adult) every hour until the patient improves or is obviously moribund. Vomiting is a very distressing feature in some cases, and, should it persist, simple effervescing mixtures, such as effervescing citrate of caffeine, in teaspoonful doses will often check it : a mixture containing five minims of dilute hydrocyanic acid with a drachm of liquor bismuthi, or fifteen grains of carbonate of bismuth suspended in mucilage, to the ounce of water, is also often useful. When recovery is taking place, the patient should be encouraged to drink large quantities of fluid so as to dilute the poison, and it is well to use the ' imperial drink ' refeiTed to on p. 15, which is also a diuretic. When convalescence is established, a liberal