TUMOURS COMPOSED OF MORE COMPLEX TISSUES 263 delivery pipe and bandaged firmly in position. Tlie bandage must be carried round the wliole lengtli of the tube, then lengthwise along the tube round the outlet valve of the cylinder and over the cork so as to prevent the tube being blown off; two or three bandages are necessary. The stopcock is now opened and the carbonic acid allowed to escape fairly rapidly, the towel tubing and the cork forming a mould in which the loose carbonic-acid snow is compacted into a firm cylinder, the porous towel and bandage allowing excess of gas to escape and preventing an explosion. After the gas has been running freely for about a minute or a minute and a half, the stopcock is closed. The brass cock has become intensely cold, and any attempt to handle it with the bare hands will produce severe frostbite. A pair of gas tongs or a thickly folded duster should therefore be used. The bandage is now removed and the towel unrolled. With a little practice it will be found possible to prepare a solid cylinder of carbonic acid six inches long and about three-quarters of an inch in diameter, sufficiently firm to be cut to any shape. This cylinder must not be handled with the bare hands, but a couple of thick- nesses of lint or a folded towel are quite sufficient to protect the operator. The end of the cylinder is pared so that its cross-section is a little larger than the area of the nitvus to be treated and is pressed firmly on to the surface of the nsevus and kept in position for from twenty to forty seconds. On removing the stick a deep sharply-cut depression is seen in the midst of a white frozen area. In a few seconds the tissues thaw and the depression becomes obliterated. No anaesthetic is needed for this procedure ; the actual application is almost painless, although subsequently there is some slight burning pain in the part. After freez- ing, a sharp reaction takes place in the part, accompanied by distinct blistering or even slight superficial ulceration, but no after-treatment is required beyond a simple dusting powder. This method is parti- cularly suitable for superficial naevi and port-wine marks. It can also be used for warts and small cutaneous tumours. The stick of carbonic acid can be kept exposed to the air for about a couple of hours ; if it be desired to preserve it longer it may be slipped into an ordinary Thermos bottle, the neck of which is plugged loosely with cotton-wool. When only a few cases have to be treated, a stick of solid carbonic acid can be prepared rapidly in the cylindrical moulds provided with a cap and a piston which are sold for the purpose. The carbonic-acid snow is collected, either in a tubular wash-leather bag provided with clips, which can be undone so as to throw the whole bag widely open, or, faihng this, in a loose bag made by wrapping an ordinary towel around the outlet pipe of the cylinder. The snow is then put into the cylindrical mould and compacted together with the piston rod. Snow is added in small quantities and hammered down into the mould by the piston until a sufficient quantity has been obtained, when, by taking off the cap, the stick can be readily forced out of the mould with the piston.