DEFORMITIES 330 half of the foot is strongly abducted so as to make the fascia tense, whilst the tenotomy knife is introduced between the skin and the fascia about half an inch to one side of the most prominent tense band, and at about the same distance in front of the tuberosity of the os calcis. As soon as the point of the instrument is introduced through the skin, the pressure upon the sole is relaxed, and the knife is insinuated between the skin and the fascia with the blade held parallel to the surface. The surgeon should bear in mind that the fascia comes very close to the skin, and is often in intimate connection with it. After the point of the knife has been pushed well beyond the tight band, the fascia is put firmly upon the stretch once more, the cutting edge of the knife is turned towards it, and made to divide it. It will generally be found that fresh bands start into promi- nence after division of the first, and these must be divided methodically, either from the same puncture or from another more conveniently placed. After all the bands have been divided, the foot should be stretched, either with the hand alone or with a wrench. If the foot can be got quite straight, or rather into the over- corrected position, by the hand alone, it is better than using a wrench, as less damage is done to the tissues. In many cases, however, it is difficult to stretch the sole adequately with the hand alone, and in these cases Thomas's wrench is useful (see p. 352). A fter-treatment. — The foot should be brought into the over-corrected position, the small punctures dressed with gauze and collodion, and the metal splint (see p. 316) applied. In arranging the padding of the sphnt care must be taken that no undue pressure is exerted upon the heads of the metatarsals ; the padding should be thicker in front of and behind the balls of the toes, so as to leave a depression into which they may sink. Should the tendo Achillis allow the foot to come to a right angle, the patient may be allowed to stand, wearing the splint, within a week after the operation; the stand- ing position helps to promote the stretching of the sole. Should the contraction of the calf muscles be very great, however, this will not be possible. If there be much pain complained of after the operation, the sphnt should be taken off and the padding readjusted. This is an important matter, for serious trouble may result, should Fig. 106.—Lines of Incision for Sub- cutaneous Division of the Plantar Fascia.