ACUTE INFLAMMATION 13 the surface of the fomentation after it has been prepared; the laudanum should be previously warmed by immersing the bottle in hot water. When the inflammation is deep-seated, and a certain amount of irritation of the skin is desired, this may be obtained by sprinkling ten to twenty drops of turpentine over the surface of the flannel, and thus making what is known as a turpentine stupe. Antiphlogistine is a very satisfac- tory substitute for a fomentation in some cases. A special material, known as spongiopilin, is sold to take the place of mackintosh in the fomentation. It consists of thick felt covered on one side with an impermeable layer, and is employed in the same way as the flannel in making the fomentation. As a rule, however, it is well to place mackintosh and wool outside the spongiopihn, as in an ordinary fomentation. Bier's Treatment.—Recently a method of treatment has been introduced by Prof. Bier of Berhn, which is of great help in suitable cases. The essential point in Bier's treatment consists in the production of a locahsed hypersemia. This may be obtained in several ways, and is either venous (passive) congestion, arterial (active) congestion, or a combination of both. In the first of these—the method of passive congestion—an elastic bandage is applied between the inflamed part and the heart, sufficiently firmly to impede the venous circulation without affecting the arterial to any appreciable extent. The bandage employed is of thin indiarubber about two inches wide, and in some cases is applied next to the skin. In many instances, however, it will be found advisable to surround the part with wool or lint before applying the bandage, so as to avoid injury to the skin from pressure. When the bandage has been properly applied, the parts beyond become purplish in tint, and the superficial veins are engorged; the bandage should never be so tight as to cause pain. Cases are described in which the limb beyond the bandage has become white and oedematous—a condition known as white stasis—but this indicates either that the bandage has been improperly applied, or that the case is unsuitable for this treatment. This method of procuring passive conges- tion is only applicable to the limbs. In the case of the shoulder-joint a special arrangement must be employed. It has not been found possible to treat the hip-joint by this method. The second plan—^the method of arterial congestion—is carried out by directing a stream of hot air on the part, or by the apphcation of local hot-air baths. For the latter method, a number of specially constructed chambers with heating arrangements have been devised. The result is much the same whether these be heated by electric lamps, by a coil of wire with a high electrical resistance, or by gas or oil-flames, and, apart from the question of price and convenience, there is little to choose between the many forms of apparatus on the market. The hot-air bath is adminis- tered daily, the temperature employed being often 200° F. or even more.