DEFORMITIES 376 under treatment. Hence the treatment of knock-knee by rest and mechanical means must be persevered with until the child is at least four years old. Cases in which the separation between the malleoli is g-reater than four inches, or in which, in spite of treatment by splints, marked separation exists after consolidation of the bones is complete.—In neither of these groups can much benefit be expected from mechanical treatment. As a rule it is found that the deformity remains in spite of prolonged mechanical treatment and much expenditure of time and money, and something further has to be done. There is no advantage in performing osteotomy while the bones are stiU soft if the patient be allowed to walk as soon as union has occurred, because the deformity will certainly recur. Hence, if osteotomy be done before the bones are firm, the patient must be kept off his feet after operation, and the treatment mentioned above adopted. At one time we were accustomed to defer operation until the rickety process was at an end, and consolidation of the bones had occurred ; now, however, we begin the treatment with an osteotomy, and follow up the operation by the treatment appropriate for rickets (see p. 363). We did this originally because of the disinclination of parents to persist in the use of splints for a long period as a preliminary to operative treatment; as experience accumulated, however, we found that, on the whole, the period of treatment was shortened, since con- solidation appears to occur more rapidly after operation, possibly as a result of the complete rest and better feeding. Should early operation not be employed, however, the treatment by splints, etc., described above, is carried out, partly with the view of correcting the deformity to some extent, but mainly in order to prevent it fi^om becoming exaggerated. When the child has reached the age of four or five, and there is evidence that the bones are becoming firm, and when there is still a separation of more than four inches between the malleoli, it is useless to persevere with mechanical treatment, whilst operation furnishes a satisfactory and rapid cure. In young adults mechanical measures seldom produce a satisfactory result, and it is sad to see these patients wearing cumbrous apparatus, and spending much time and money in attempts to get cured of a de- formity that can be put right by a simple operation. In young adults suffering from genu valgum, therefore, we would advise operation in aU cases in which the distance between the malleoli reaches four inches. It is not necessary to wait for complete consolidation in them. This generally occurs while the patient is lying in bed aftet the operation, and if care be taken not to allow the entire weight to be borne upon the limb too soon, and if suitable general treatment be adopted, there is little risk of the deformity recurring. Osteotomy.—Various forms of operative procedure have been employed in these cases. Those in which the bone is broken without