INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 64 the callous edges of the ulcer have been got rid of, and the sore has assumed a healthy condition, skin-grafting should be employed (see p. 52); when varicose veins are present, they should be operated on after the wound has healed, but before the patient is allowed to walk about. For the ' ambulatory ' treatment of caUous ulcer, see p. 59. Pressure Ulcer.—A pressure ulcer occurring in the centre of a callosity is sometimes very obstinate in healing, and the best treatment is to cut away the callosity which surrounds the ulcer, and to scrape and disinfect the surface of the latter. In this way a shallow healthy sore is left, which heals comparatively quickly if the limb be elevated and kept at rest in the usual manner. When a pressure ulcer occurs in the foot, it is perhaps well to excise and skin-graft it, in order to avoid the thin scar which results from the natural process of healing, and which is very apt to remain tender or break down subsequently; and when the patient first begins to walk about, the boot should be excavated at the part corre- sponding to the scar, so that pressure does not tell—for a time, at any rate—on the site of the ulcer. Paralytic Ulcer.—It is often very difficult to obtain healing, and stimu- lating applications should be employed. In the early stage cyanide gauze should be applied directl}' to the raw surface, after the ulcer has been disinfected, and is very useful as a means of inducing granulation. After granulation has occurred, the best dressing is perhaps boric lint soaked in balsam of Peru. This dressing is antiseptic, and possesses a markedly stimulating action; it should be changed daily. When the healing is well in progress, the half-strength boric ointment (see p. 51) should be substituted. The position of the limb, rest, the administration of nourishing diet, etc., must of course be attended to. Besides this, the application of spirits of wine to the parts around, and the use of massage (see p. 23) and electricity to the whole limb, should be had recourse to, with the view of improving the nutrition and increasing the circulation. The electric current may be employed in one of two ways. The simplest plan consists in covering the whole of the ulcerated area with a layer of gauze or absorbent wool, thoroughly wetted with salt solution, and apply- ing to this the negative pole of a galvanic battery, the positive pole being applied to the spinal column. A current of about five milliamperes should be used at first; if this cause pain it must be diminished. The apparatus should be so arranged that the circuit can be opened and closed about thirty times per minute. The sittings should occupy from ten to fifteen minutes and may be made daily. The strength of the current may be cautiously increased up to ten or more milliamperes, but it should never be strong enough to cause pain. The other method is to immerse the affected limb in a small electrical bath. This may be improvised by using a china basin or wooden tub or trough of suitable size, which is filled with salt solution and in which the affected part in immersed. The electrodes, which should be in the form of flat copper plates connected with the poles