310 DEFORMITIES the arch of the instep should be supported by a Whitman's spring, but this can generally be discarded in about two months. The boots should have a high arch to the instep, and the latter should be supported still further by extending the heel forwards (see p. 306). The objections urged against this operation are that in bad cases it is not always easy to bring the foot into proper position after it, and that the transverse tarsal joint loses its mobility, and therefore the foot is deprived of some of its normal elasticity. Nevertheless, it effects a great improvement in the condition of the patient, and it gives better results than any that can be obtained by mechanical means in cases which have reached this degree of severity. Removal of a Wedg-e-shaped Portion of the Tarsus.—In cases of the most severe type of all, the only chance of a successful result is by the removal of a wedge-shaped piece of the tarsus, the base of the wedge being on the inner side of the foot, and the apex at the outer. This operation is performed in a similar manner to that described for bad cases of talipes varus (see p. 358), except that in the latter case the base of the wedge is on the outer side of the foot, and we may therefore refer to the description there given. As a result of this operation the bones become anchylosed, but the patient is really much more comfortable if the foot has been brought into accurate position, notwithstanding anchylosis. Other operations, such as Stokes's excision of a wedge from the neck of the astragalus, excision of the astragalus, or of various tarsal bones, have nothing to recommend them in preference to the procedures already described. WEAK ANKLES. In this condition, which is common in young children, the child habitually walks on one side of the foot producing an apparent valgus or varus. The deformity can be readily distinguished from a true talipes by the ease with which it can be corrected. The child wears the soles of his boots irregularly, and the uneven basis of support thus produced tends to confirm the habit and aggravate the condition. The essential trouble in these cases is muscular weakness. TREATMENT.—This must be directed in the first place to the general muscular system, and in the second to any group or groups of muscles that are specially at fault. The patient should be put in healthy surroundings and should have simple nourishing food and active outdoor exercise, which should never be pushed to the point of fatigue. Little children who are supposed to be delicate are often loaded with excessive garments under the mistaken impression that they need special warmth ; clothing should of course be warm, but it must be light so as not to impede the patient's activity. In the intervals between the periods of activity rest must be insisted upon. In many cases attention to these points is