WOUNDS 200 the disease, there are often frodromata, such as a feeling of malaise, a tendency to yawn, headache, fear on the part of the patient that he will not get better, and neuralgic pains in the wound radiating along the nerves and accompanied by local spasms or cramps. Shortly after the appearance of these premonitory symptoms the typical symptoms of tetanus set in; the muscles of mastication are generally affected first and the condition known as trismus is produced. The masticators contract and more or less fix the jaw, and convulsive con- tractions of these muscles occur on any attempt to open the mouth to eat or drink. The spasm next attacks the muscles of the neck, resulting in fixation of the head, and about the same time the muscles of expression also become affected, giving rise to the risus sardonicus, in which the angles of the mouth are drawn out, the alse of the nose elevated, the eyes widely opened, and the forehead wrinkled. The next set of muscles affected is generally the pharyngeal group, leading to spasmodic dys- phagia. Soon the voluntary muscles elsewhere are attacked, generally in groups, those next affected being usually the sacro-limibar muscles and those of the lower extremities, leading to opisthotonos; then the muscles of the upper extremity, those of the abdomen, and, fortunately last of all, the muscles of respiration. The muscular spasm seldom relaxes altogether, while the least movement or disturbance of the patient is apt to set up clonic contractions—the well-known tetanic spasms. The pulse generally varies from loo to 140 ; the temperature is usually up to 104° F., being highest during the convulsions. When the temperature goes higher than 104° or 105° the condition is generally very grave, and the pyrexia may end fatally unless steps be taken to reduce it. The respirations are normal, but increase in frequency during the attack ; the patient cannot swallow, the saliva runs out of the mouth, there is diminu- tion in the amount of the urine but no albuminuria, and there is profuse sweating after the convulsions. The principal causes of death in this disease are : severe laryngeal spasm, terminating in fatal asphyxia, spasm of the diaphragm or other respiratory muscles, arrest of the heart's action due to spasm or paralysis, profound exhaustion and inanition, and hyperpyrexia. VARIETIES.—Tetanus may be acute or chronic. The acute form accompanied by high temperature usually ends fatally in four days, and only about one per cent, of those affected with this form recover under ordinary treatment. In the more ehronie variety the onset is more delayed, and the characteristic symptoms of the disease may not become manifest for two or three weeks ; the convulsions are less frequent, and not so general. This form may become acute, however, and death then takes place rapidly ; about twenty per cent, of the patients recover. CAUSES.—Tetanus most commonly occurs after wounds of the extremities. It is due to a bacillus which is anaerobic and spore-bearing, and which is commonly found in garden earth, in horse-dung, and generally