309 FLAT FOOT excision of the astragalo-scaphoid articulation, some remove a wedge from the neck of the astragahis, whilst others excise a wedge-shaped portion of the tarsus, without regard to the structures removed. The operations most generally useful are the removal of the head of the astragalus, or a partial excision of the astragalo-scaphoid joint as described by Ogston. Excision of the Head of the Astragalus.—This is perhaps the best operation on the whole. It can be done readily by an incision similar to that required for Ogston's operation [vide infra), and is not necessarily followed by anchylosis. The disadvantage of the operation is that there is a tendency for depression of the arch to recur as a result of the absence of anchylosis, and therefore a Whitman's spring must be worn constantly after the operation. Ogston's Operation aims at producing bony anchylosis between the scaphoid and the astragalus, after the foot has been got into position. It is performed as follows. Under full anaesthesia any adhesions present are broken down by free and forcible movements in all directions. Then an attempt is made to rectify the position of the foot as far as possible by means of the hand, aided, if necessary, by a wrench. An incision is then made along the inner aspect of the foot, from just below the anterior margin of the internal malleolus, downwards and forwards to a point beyond the tubercle of the scaphoid. The tendon of the tibialis anticus must be avoided in deepening the incision ; it can be drawn aside with a retractor. The astragalo-scaphoid joint is then opened, and the whole of the articular cartilage covering the head of the astragalus and the corresponding part of the scaphoid, is stripped off with a peri- osteum detacher or a chisel. If the altered shape and increased size of the astragalus still renders it impossible to bring the foot into position, enough of that bone may be removed with a chisel to enable this to be effected. The foot is then forcibly inverted and adducted, and the arch of the instep is raised by depressing the metatarsal bones ; when the position appears to be satisfactory, a hole is drilled through the scaphoid from before backwards and outwards and continued on into the head of the astragalus. Through this is inserted an ivory peg, a screw, or a nail, which serves to keep the bones steady in their new position; whichever of these be used to fix the bones, its inner end should lie flush with the scaphoid. The wound is closed without a drainage-tube, and outside the dressings is applied a plaster of Paris casing, extending from the base of the toes up to about the centre of the calf ; the foot is held in its new position while the plaster sets. The casing need not be disturbed for about six weeks if no pain be complained of. Bony union should then be fairly complete, and the patient may be allowed to walk. Should there be any pain, however, or should the casing become loose, it must be removed, the wound re-dressed, and a fresh casing appUed. After the casing has been left off,