DEFORMITIES 426 immovable. Exercise of psoas and iliaciis, and all the muscles of the thigh, including those passing from the pelvis to the femur, and sartorius (see Fig. 149). 3. Circular movement of the head.—The head is first bent forwards until the chin touches the chest (see Fig. 153)) then the head is inclined in such a manner that the ear touches the shoulder (see Fig. 155) ; return to the Fig. 155. position of rest in the same level. Repeat, inclining the head to the opposite side. Exercise of the muscles on each side of the neck. Series D. I. Sit up without the aid of the arms, the back straight, the head stretched out (see Fig. 156, a). Lie down again very slowly without bending the back. Exercise of the psoas and iliacus and of anterior abdominal muscles chiefly. 2. Lift the legs stretched very slowly as far as the vertical. Lower them slowly. Exercise of psoas and iliacus and anterior thigh muscles (see Fig. 149). 3. Place the right hand on the ribs as high up and as far back as possible, thumb forwards. Place the left fore- arm on the head so that the left fingers touch the right ear. Bend all the body above the right hand as far as possible to the right (see Fig. 156,6). Take a few deep inspirations and return to the symmetrical position. Exercise for right dorsal curve. 4. Repeat the preceding exercise in a reverse manner. Exercise for left dorsal curve. 5. Arms in a cross. Legs and hips immovable, head straight. Bend the whole body to the left (see Fig. 156, c). Remain during a few inspirations. Return to the position of rest. Exercise for right lumbar curve. 6. Repeat in the opposite direction. Fici. 156. Exercise for left lumbar curve. Series E.—Lying on the Stomach. I. Arms strongly stretched at the sides, raise oneself, breathe. Exercise for erector spinae (see Fig. 157). Fig. 157. 2. Lift each leg stretched. Perform circular move- ment. The head rests on the jaw of the side of the limb lifted (see Fig. 158). Exercise of thigh muscles, glutei extensors, and rotators.