WOUNDS l62 obtain primary union in these cases the bleeding must be arrested com- pletely, and care must be taken that no foreign material is left between the edges of the wound ; moreover, the whole of the cut surface, and not merely the edge of the mucous membrane, must be in accurate and close apposition. In wounds of mucous membranes healing by blood-clot will not take place. The best material for stitches in these cases is either silkworm-gut, or horsehair when a finer stitch is wanted ; silk should not be used, as it is absorbent and will retain decomposing material. No dressing applied to the wound is likely to be of any real service, but it is well to wash the surface of the mucous membrane frequently with weak antiseptic solutions, such as permanganate of potash (two grains to the ounce), or sanitas (a teaspoonful to the tumbler of water). The more irritating antiseptics, such as carbolic acid, should not be employed. When the edges of the wound have not been brought together, and when, therefore, healing by granulation must take place, it is of great importance to avoid septic decomposition on the surface of the wound during the first two or three days ; at the end of that time, there is usually such a marked invasion of cells in the wound that bacteria find considerable difficulty in entering. Almost the only bacteria that are able to penetrate at a later period than this are streptococci or diphtheria organisms. In order to keep these sores aseptic for the first few days, Lord Lister used to sponge over the surface of the wound with a solution of chloride of zine (forty grains to the ounce), after the bleeding had been arrested. He regarded it as, so to speak, pickling the surface of the wound for a day or two after it had been made ; after a thorough application of chloride of zinc to a cut surface exposed to the elements of putrefaction, decomposition certainly does not seem to occur so early as when the wound is left to nature, and therefore this method is one which may be strongly recommended. In these cases also iodofopm is much used ; the cut surface may be lightly powdered with iodoform crystals after having been sponged with the chloride of zinc solution. Iodoform must not be used too lavishly for wounds of the mouth, however, as the drug may be swallowed, and symptoms of iodoform poisoning may appear. As soon as the wound is granulating, mild antiseptic washes, such as weak sanitas (about a teaspoonful to a tumbler of water), permanganate of potash (one or two grains to the ounce), or boric acid (ten grains to the ounce) may be used. If the granulations become prominent, an occasional application of solid nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper will keep them down. When the wound involves both skin and mucous membrane—as, for example, a wound of the cheek—the skin-wound should be stitched up accurately with interrupted sutures of silkworm-gut, but the wound on the mucous surface should be painted over with chloride of zinc solu- tion, and only brought together here and there with a few catgut sutures. A piece of gauze wet with a i in 2000 sublimate solution