77 GANGRENE troubles, there is little evidence of a closer causal connection than that both are referable to profound vaso-motor disturbance. The attacks are often brought on by cold, and are most commonly met with during the winter months. It is probable that in some cases the disturbance is in the vaso-motor centres, in others in the vaso-motor nerves, and yet again in others in both centres and fibres simultaneously. The initial effect would seem to be spasm of the arterioles of the extremities. In the asphyxial stage there is vaso-paresis of capillaries and veins, side by side with or following upon arterial vaso-constriction. Not only the ischaemia of the spasmodic stage, but also the hyperemia of the asphyxial stage may terminate in gangrene. Certain phenomena precede the gangrene. The extremity affected may become quite white from contraction of the blood-vessels ; follow- ing this, or occurring without any preliminary pallor, the parts may become of a deep purple colour, as though dipped in ink. This is evidently due to a local venous stasis and it may last for a day or two, and may or may not lead to dry gangrene. The darkness of the extremities just noted continues for some days, the pain and other symptoms increase, and small bullfe may possibly form ; indeed, in the case of the hand, it often looks as if the patient must lose all the fingers. Ultimately the circulation improves, and as a rule the final result is that only a small piece of tissue dries up, and ultimately separates. The process is slow and takes from twenty days to ten months from the commencement of the gangrene to the separation of the slough. The condition is very apt to recur. Local Treatment.—In the treatment of the local condition, the first place must be given to stimulation by the electrical current. For this purpose the constant current may be used, and, as recommended by Sir Thomas Barlow, the extremity of the affected limb should be immersed in a basin of salt and water. One pole of the constant current battery is placed on the upper part of the limb, whilst the other is immersed in the fluid in the basin. As many cells may be employed as the patient can comfortably bear, and the current is made and broken twenty to thirty times per minute, so as to get repeated muscular contractions. When several extremities are aft'ected, and it is possible to obtain it, the com- plete electric bath is best.i This should be of porcelain, earthenware, or wood, about 5 ft. 6 in. long, and the patient should be immersed in it up to the neck. The water should be just under 100° F. The elec- trodes are large flat copper plates about a foot square ; they are placed at the head and foot of the bath. The shoulders should not touch the electrode, the feet may be allowed to do so. The current at first should not exceed 100 milliamperes ; after a few baths it may be gradually raised to 150 or 200, and it should not be turned on until the patient has been in the bath some little time, and then only very gradually. The 1 For further information on these points the reader is referred to Dr. Lewis Jones's Medical Electricity (H. K. Lewis, London).