206 AFFECTIONS OF CICATRICES operation of this kind it is advisable to avoid the use of skin sutures entirely if that be possible ; buried sutures (see p. 137) should be em- ployed, deep catgut stitches being inserted, through the subcutaneous tissue only, from the points where the undermining ceases on the one side to the corresponding points on the other, so as to relieve the tension on the skin edges, which are then approximated by stitches passing through the fat and the deeper parts of the skin, the actual margins being brought together by strips of gauze fixed on with collodion. A narrow cicatrix is thus obtained, and it is not a matter of great importance should this become cheloid ; sometimes the condition does not recur. When a large raw surface is left, it is better not to attempt to approximate the edges with sutures, but to skin-graft the entire wound instead (see p. 54). If this be done it will sometimes happen that there is no recurrence of the cheloid. CONTRACTING CICATRIX. This may be a very serious condition under certain circumstances. Even cicatrices resulting from healing by first intention sometimes contract so much as to cause a good deal of interference with movement. This is well seen when a thyroid tumour has been excised by a median vertical incision ; if the cicatrix contracts to any extent, a band is formed between the sternum and the larynx which interferes with exten- sion of the head upon the trunk and often causes much inconvenience. TREATMENT.—-The cicatrix can often be divided transversely about its centre, the skin and cicatricial tissue undermined, and the divided ends of the scar pulled well asunder. It is then generally possible to bring together the lateral angles of the lozenge-shaped incision thus pro- duced and so convert the transverse into a longitudinal wound, which is then stitched up and the scar thus elongated. When the surgeon has to do with a large cicatrix, as after burns, all tense bands should be divided in this manner, and the raw surface left after separation of the ends of the cicatrix grafted at once; owing to the extent of the affected area it will not be possible to suture it in the manner just described. Other methods of dealing with the deformities caused by cicatrices in special situations are discussed under their proper headings. PAINFUL CICATRIX. Cicatrices are sometimes intensely tender, so that the slightest touch causes exquisite neuralgic pain which radiates from the scar. These painful scars occur most commonly when the edges of a wound have not been brought together accurately, but they may be met with even after healing by first intention ; they indicate the implication of nerves in the contracting scar-tissue.