TUMOURS 244 liver. In the softer and more embryonic varieties, the lymphatic glands may become affected; though this is not nearly so common as in the carcinomata. Of the varieties of the sarcomata may be mentioned the Found-eelled sarcoma, which is usually soft and white like the milt of fish, and very malignant ; the spindle-eelled sarcoma, which is generally firmer, of a greyish or yellowish-white appearance, and not so malignant as the round- celled variety ; it occurs most frequently in connection with the fasciae ; the myeloid sarcoma, in which there are myeloid or giant cehs in addition to polymorphous or spindle cells. This form is soft, of a chocolate colour, and generally contains numerous cysts, due to degeneration occurring in connection with the myeloid cells. It occurs in the interior of the articular ends of bones, and in the lower jaw. It is the least mahgnant of the saixomata and seldom gives rise to secondary tumours ; it may often be removed without amputation and without recurrence. Some authors separate these myeloid tumours from the sarcomata and place them in a group by themselves under the name of myelomata. The melanotic sarcomata contain polymorphous or spindle-shaped cells in which early pigmentary degeneration occurs. They originate in parts where there is normally pigment, such as the skin or the choroid. They are the most malignant of the sarcomata, affecting the glands early, and recurring with great rapidity. Alveolar sarcoma is comparatively rare. In it the cells are arranged in groups separated by connective tissue or spindle cells, giving rise to an alveolar arrangement. Osteo- sarcoma takes origin from the periosteum and is extremely malignant ; a certain amount of ossification takes place in it, so that spicules of osseous tissue are found projecting from its surface when the affected bone is macerated. The secondary deposits to which this form gives rise are apt to undergo similar ossification. A somewhat analogous condition is seen in the variety known as ehondro-sareoma, which is met with sometimes in soft tissues, such as the testicle or the parotid, and in which chondrification occurs ; it is a very mahgnant form. Treatment.—All sarcomata should be excised freely. Any capsule that the tumour possesses must be taken away; in fact, it is well to make sure that a considerable area of healthy tissue beyond the capsule is included in the removal. When the sarcoma arises in connection with bone, amputation is generally necessary, and moreover, in cases of periosteal sarcoma it is advisable to disarticulate through the joint above the bone affected, because it will be found on microscopical examination that the growth generally spreads in the periosteum to a considerable distance beyond the naked-eye limits of the tumour, and recurrence is likely to take place if amputation be performed in the continuity of the bone. Myeloid tumours, however, form an exception to the rule that sarcomata of bone call for amputation; such a procedure is rarely called for in them.