163 TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS should be laid over the skin incision for a few hours, until the bleeding has ceased, when half-strength boric ointment and boric lint may be substituted, or the wound may be left uncovered and a scab allowed to form. When there is a pocket in the cellular tissue communicating with a mucous surface—as, for example, after operations upon the floor of the mouth and the glands in the neck—a large drainage- tube must be inserted at the lowest point of the wound, so as to prevent accumulation. In three or four days this should be replaced by one of smaller calibre, which should be cleaned and sterilised by boiling at every dressing night and morning. The drainage-tube can rarely be dispensed with before the third week. An antistreptoeoceie serum has been introduced for use in cases of streptococcic infection, which is the most serious and most common form of infection in operations on mucous membranes, especially about the mouth. This serum has been used in a good many cases as a pro- phylactic measure before the operation with the object of protecting the body for a time against streptococcic invasion, so that the healing of the wound shall be undisturbed by the action of these organisms. When used for this purpose, 20 c.c. should be injected two days before, and 10 c.c. on the morning of the operation. If there be not time for this, the injection of 20 c.c. the night before, and a similar quantity on the morning of the operation, must suffice. A syringe must be used which can be disinfected by boiling, and the best place for the injection is in the flanks or the loins ; the skin should be thoroughly purified. The question of the value of this remedy is still sub jiidice, and, as there are probably several forms of pathogenic streptococci, it is well not to place too much reliance on it in any given case. Vaccines have been employed with advantage, especially when the infection runs a chronic course. The question of vaccines is dealt with in detail by Dr. Emery (see p. 514). TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS INFLICTED ACCIDENTALLY. A wound may not come under the notice of the surgeon until it has been inflicted some hours, and the problem then is not so much how to prevent the entrance of bacteria into the wound, as how to destroy any that may have already entered. The degree of the contamination of such a wound depends largely on the part of the body injured, and on the weapon with which the wound has been inflicted. In wounds of the scalp there is certain to be considerable infection from hairs or scurf carried into the wound at the time it is made ; and as suppuration in scalp-wounds is often very serious, both from burrowing of pus under the scalp, and also from the proximity of the diploe and the M 2