ULCERATION 6i Simple Ulcer.—The simple ulcer is one that is prevented from healing by various local causes not usually of a serious character. The chief of these are standing and walking, especially if varicose veins be present or the patient be advanced in years. If these causes be removed, and the limb be placed at rest in a suitable position, the sore will heal rapidly. In the treatment of a simple ulcer, then, the patient should be put to bed, the leg elevated on a pillow, fixed if necessary, and suitable dressings applied to the part. It is well to disinfect the surface of the ulcer (see p. 49), but when the surface is comparatively healthy it is hardly neces- sary to destroy the granulations with pure carbolic acid ; washing them with i in 2000 sublimate solution will suffice. The best dressing is the half-strength boric ointment, used as described on p. 51, and changed either daily or every alternate day. When the ulcer is large, especially if the patient be old, skin-grafting (see p. 53) should be employed. Inflamed Ulcer.—Here there is not only ulceration but also acute in- flammation, and both conditions require treatment. Tlie patient should be put to bed with the leg elevated, and warm antiseptic fomentations applied. The best of these is boric lint dipped in warm i in 4000 sublimate solution or boric lotion, applied wet over the ulcer and the skin in the vicinity, and overlapped in all directions by guttapercha tissue or mack- intosh. This dressing should be changed twice a day at least, and oftener if the inflammation be severe or the pain acute. Before doing this, it is well to disinfect the surface of the sore by the application of undiluted carbolic acid. Another important point is local depletion. When these ulcers are multiple they are often separated by bridges of skin which are much swollen and inflamed and are prone to become gangrenous. Division of these bridges will often prevent the impending gangrene and the consequent loss of tissue, while at the same time it allows the escape of exudation and of blood, and so improves the inflammatory condition. Even when these bridges of skin are not present, considerable improvement will be obtained by making incisions into the inflamed tissues around, the cuts radiating from the centre of the ulcer. When the inflammation has subsided, the treatment is that of a healing sore. Skin-grafting (see p. 53) will be called for when the ulcer is large. Weak Ulcer.—In a weak ulcer the cause of the weakness (see p. 43) must be sought for and removed if possible. If general anaemia be the cause, iron should be administered ; an excellent way to give it is in the form of Blaud's capsules, commencing with doses of five grains three times a day. Some of the graver forms of aucemia, however, yield more quickly and satisfactorily to arsenic, and therefore these drugs may be given in combination, or, if the iron does not seem to suit, liquor arseni- calis should be substituted for it, beginning with doses of three minims after food twice a day, and increasing the dose by one minim every third or fourth day up to twelve minims or more. The medicinal treatment