464 ANESTHETICS by volume, chloroform spec. grav. i'497 ^wo parts, and ether spec. grav. 0720 three parts ; it is usually looked upon as merely a mechanical mixture of its constituents. Properties.—Its spec, grav., when freshly prepared, is as nearly as possible the mean of its three constituents, i.e., I'o ; the spec. grav. of its vapour has not been experimentally determined. The particular purpose served by the alcohol is not very clear ; possibly the advantage is mainly mechanical, leading to a more intimate admixture of the several con- stituents, but it is also claimed that the evaporation of the ether is some- what retarded. It is said to be somewhat unstable, and it is always recommended that it should be freshly prepared, as required. Of late years I have been in the habit of employing a mixture of one part of chloroform and two of ether, i.e. the same relative amount of chloro- form, rather more ether and no alcohol. An advantage of this combina- tion is that its constituents are more likely to be at hand when a fresh supply is wanted. I usually mix it in the operating room for each case. Advantages.—The question is often asked, why the mixture should be preferred to pure chloroform. The reply to this query is founded partly upon theoretical, partly upon practical considerations. Theoretically, I am inclined to believe that the stimulating effects of the ether vapour, however slight, cannot but be of service, and that, by using a moderately diluted vapour, there is much less risk of overstepping the narrow margin of safety which is so characteristic of chloroform anaesthesia. Practically, I am sure that, with the mixture, one obtains earlier notice of impending danger than with chloroform alone. Neither the mixture nor any of the anaesthetics at present known are absolutely safe, but the danger with the A.C.E. is chiefly that of over-narcosis pure and simple, and of this more ample warning is given than with chloroform ; to a great extent, though perhaps not entirely, the element of sudden over-dilata- tion of the heart is eliminated. Cases Suitable.—When neither nitrous oxide nor ether are advisable, the next anaesthetic to be considered is a mixture. The hst of objections to the use of ether, therefore, given on p. 452, constitutes a list from which cases suitable for the use of mixture can be selected. But even the small amount of ether contained in the mixture may be considered harmful in those actually suffering from extensive lung disease ; when the actual cautery is to be employed in close proximity to the inhaler ; and as an inhaler is usually employed, it is not easy to maintain the narcosis with mixtures in operations about the mouth and nose. The preparation of the patient should be carried out on the Unes suggested on p. 443, and no position is permissible but the recumbent, or one on which the legs are, at least, on the level of the body. Apparatus and Administration.—No form of closed or bag-inhaler should be used for A.C.E. or other chloroform mixture. In very small children, and in neurotic adults, it may be given by the open method, i.e.