INFLAMMATION AND ITS SEQUELS 46 DAlsTGERS OF ULCERS.—The rapid and permanent cure of an ulcer is a matter of great importance ; not only is a patient afflicted with an ulcer more or less incapacitated from work, but he is liable to various accidents which may permanently cripple him or even lead to his death. For example, when an ulcer is situated over a muscular part, the muscles may become so matted together that the movements of the limb are much interfered with. This is more especially the case if the ulcer lies over tendons ; the tendon and tendon-sheath may then become adherent to one another and to the surrounding parts. Perhaps the most common disabilities resulting from ulcers are those due to the contraction occurring during the efforts at heahng. When an ulcer is situated over a joint, for example, the healing process may lead to so much contraction as to fix the joint permanently in a faulty (usiraUy a flexed) position. Again, when an ulcer surrounds the leg completely, the contraction may be enough to constrict the vessels coming from the parts below, and so cause great and permanent oedema and often complete uselessness of the foot. A further risk of an ulcer is that the veins in its vicinity may become inflamed, and an extensive simple or septic phlebitis may follow. A patient with an open ulcer is subject to all the ordinary septic diseases, more especially erysipelas. Lastly, it may be pointed out that epithelioma not infrequently develops upon an ulcer of long standing. TREATMENT.—-Various principles must be attended to in order to promote the healing process. In the first place, it is essential for rapid heahng that the level of the sore should be nearly, if not quite, the same as that of the surrounding parts ; secondly, its margins should be move- able, in order to permit of contraction ; and thirdly, the granulations on the surface should be healthy. There are, therefore, three practical points to attend to in the treatment of ulcers: (i) To remove any cause that is keeping up the ulceration, the most important of which have already been mentioned ; (2) to improve the condition of the surface and margins of the ulcer ; (3) to promote healing in every possible way, and to provide for the formation of as sound a scar as can be obtained. Removal of the Cause.—The first essential in the treatment of all ulcers, is to seek out the cause and remove it; the causes have been indicated fully in the preceding paragraphs, and nothing further need be said about them here. Rest.—In all cases rest is highly desirable. The patient must be prohibited from walking, and, if necessary, the movements of the neighbouring joints must be prevented by the application of suitable splints. If splints be employed, they should be so arranged that the limb will be in the position most serviceable to the patient if there be any subsequent stiffness either of joints or muscles. For example, in the case of the leg, on which ulcers are most frequently met with, it is