PREPARATION OF VACCINES 515 solution must be absolutely sterile. If an autoclave is at hand, it should be raised to 120° C. for half an hour. Reliance on mere boiling is unwise, unless the water used in the preparation of the saline solution is known to be free from sporulating bacteria, as is usually the case with the water- supply of most English towns. The emulsion thus prepared is pipetted with a sterile pipette into a sterilised test-tube, thoroughly shaken, and the sample required for counting purposes removed. The bulk of the vaccine is then steriUsed. Sterilisation of the Vaccine.—The middle of a sterile test-tube is thoroughly softened in the flame, and the two ends are pulled apart so that the softened portion is drawn out to form a narrow tube about |th in. in diameter. It is allowed to cool, and the emulsion is poured in, and got into the lower portion of the tube by alternately warming and cooling the latter, so as to expand and contract the air which it contains. The narrow portion of the tube is now sealed in tlie flame, and, when cool, the bulb containing the vaccine is inverted and warmed in the hand, so as to make sure that the seal is a sound one, no fluid being expelled : if a drop comes out the tip must be resealed. This hermetically sealed tube of vaccine is now attached to a weight and completely immersed in a water-bath kept at 60'^ C. If a thermo- stat at this temperature is not at hand a large beaker of water will answer perfectly, the desired temperature being maintained by the application and removal of a small flame, such as that of a spirit lamp. In this case it is a good plan to attach the tube of vaccine to the bulb of the thermometer by means of an indiarubber band, of course taking care that no part of the former is out of the water. Tlie period of heating is usually one hour. Some organisms are killed more quickly than this, but it is well to be on the safe side until some experience is attained as to the amount of heat necessary in the case of the organism in use. In general the less the vaccine is heated the better, provided it is sterile. Counting- the Emulsion.—While the tube is being heated the pre- parations, which should have been made at an earlier stage, may be counted and the calculations made. The methods of counting or otherwise determining the richness of the emulsion are numerous, but here only Sir Almroth Wright's will be described. It consists in comparing the number of bacteria in the vaccine with the number of red corpuscles in human blood, this having been previously estimated by means of the hcemocyto- meter. Numerous slight modifications of the process are in use, and that given will be found efficacious. A Wright's pipette, such as is used in the determination of the opsonic index, is prepared by softening the centre of a piece of glass tubing in the flame and drawing it out into a tube about as thick as a steel knitting- needle, or rather thinner. This is broken in the centre, so as to give two capillary pipettes eacli attached to a witlcr jiortion of tubing, on which L 1. 2