WOUNDS 88 The mental attitude of the patient is of considerable importance, especially as affecting the occurrence of shock during and after the opera- tion. When he has once decided to undergo an operation, the patient should be encouraged to look forward to a successful result ; nothing is worse for him than to feel that he is going to succumb ; shock certainly seems to intervene more quickly and more powerfully under such circum- stances. Hence, although the patient and his friends should be made aware of the real danger and results of the proposed operation, the brightest side of the picture should be put in the foreground as soon as its performance has been decided on, and any drawbacks should be made light of. There is no object in interfering with the patient's usual diet on the preceding day, but it is well that the evening meal should be light and easily digestible. When a general ansesthetic is to be given, food should not be given by the mouth later than three hours before the operation, and if the latter is to be performed in the early morning it is not worth while waking up the patient for a meal. If he be awake, he may have a cup of strong hot beef-tea or meat juice about six o'clock in the morning when the operation is to be performed about nine When the operation is to be a severe one, it is also advisable to give a nutrient enema half an hour before the operation. The bowels should be well cleared out in all cases before the opera- tion, and the most satisfactory aperient is castor oil; about an ounce should be administered overnight, followed by a plain water or soap-and- water enema in the morning. The latter is made by rubbing up Castile soap in warm water until a pretty thick lather is formed, and about a pint is injected. When the patient cannot take castor oil, or when it causes much griping, a teaspoonful of compound liquorice powder at night, followed by an enema in the morning, will generally suffice. The chief reason for clearing out the bowels, even though they may have been acting regularly beforehand, is that the patient is generally constipated after an operation and his digestion is disordered ; and, further, it is important to get rid of material which may cause trouble by decomposing, the septic products being absorbed and diminishing the patient's vitality. The evacuation of the bowels is also of importance in certain operations—for example, in piles—^where steps are taken after the operation to delay their action for some time. While, as a general rule, the aperient should be given on the night preceding the operation, in some cases it is better to give it twenty-four hours earlier, and at most a simple enema on the morning of the operation. This is the case in rectal operations and in a good many abdominal sections, such as appendicectomy. If the aperient be given a few hours before, the bowels are apt to be in an irritable state after the operation and much trouble from griping pains and flatulence may result. The most favourable time for an operation is the early morning, and that for two reasons. In the first place the patient, especially if he