TUMOURS 238 Simple Tumours.—By a simple tumour, such as an ordinary lipoma, is meant one which is of slow growth ; which does not produce any con- stitutional disturbance, such as wasting or cachexia, unless it be situated in some vital organ ; which does not cause pain, unless its size or its situation causes it to press upon nerves; which has no inherent tendency to ulcerate and fungate by destroying the skin over it, and only does so when the skin gives way as a result of the pressure to which the bulk of the tumour subjects it; and which does not cause secondary growths elsewhere. A simple tumour is generally surrounded by a capsule and does not infiltrate the tissues around, nor does it recur after being removed completely. It is freely movable and readily separable from the surrounding parts, unless accidental attacks of inflammation have occurred about it; in structure it resembles more or less closely some of the normal tissues of the body. Malignant Tumours.—A mahgnant tumour, such as an epithe- lioma, usually grows rapidly and after a time produces severe constitu- tional effects, known as cachexia, the patient wasting, becoming pale and sallow, and evidently suffering from chronic poisoning. The growth is often painful, apart from its situation, because it involves nerves, and undergoes softening ; when it is near the skin it may destroy it, and lead to ulceration and fungation. It is not encapsuled, any apparent capsule being really a false one and not marking the true limits of the disease. As a rule it grows by infiltrating and destroying the sur- rounding parts and replacing them by tumour substance, and also by producing secondary tumours elsewhere. Mahgnant tumours are usually hard and not freely movable, on account of their infiltrating nature. They frequently recur after removal. In structure they differ widely from normal tissues. HISTOLOGICAL CLASSIFICATION. — Histologically tumours are divided into those composed of cellular elements and those in which the structure is more complex ; the former are again subdivided, according to the type of cell that forms their chief con- stituent, into tumours composed of epithelial tissues, and into tumours of the connective-tissue type. The tumours belonging to this latter class are not composed of cells alone, but contain in addition blood- vessels, connective tissue, and lymphatic vessels. So far as we know, however, they are not provided with nervous elements. TUMOURS OF THE CELLULAR TYPE. EPITHELIAL TUMOURS. Epithelial tumours are due to the growth of epithelium, which may be regular or irregular, and, if on a free surface, may remain heaped up in masses, or may penetrate into and infiltrate the tissues