67 F 2 CHAPTER IV. GANGRENE. DEFINITION.—By gangrene is meant death of macroscopic portions of the tissues, and the term is usually employed only when the portion which dies is extensive, more especially when the whole or part of an extremity is affected. If the portion of gangrenous tissue be small, the dead part is termed a slough, and the process is spoken of as sloughing. CLASSIFIOATIOISr.—In speaking of gangrene two classihcations are employed—the one a clinical classification into dry and moist gangrene, the other an etiological one into direct, indirect, and specific gangrene. The use of the latter classification makes the whole subject of treatment more intelligible. SYMPTOMS.—It will save repetition if we speak first of the terms dry and moist gangrene. Dry Gangrene is the form in which the gangrene occurs so slowly that the fluids of the part have time to dry up. Under these circumstances the dead tissues do not form proper pabulum for the ordinary putrefactive bacteria, and therefore the usual signs of putrefaction are wanting. The part usually has a mouldy rather than a foul odour, and there is not the same amount of septic absorption as in the moist form. The patient is at first comparatively or altogether free from fever and symptoms of septic poisoning, and there is less inflammation in the neighbourhood of the dead part than is the case in the moist variety. The gangrenous part is black, shrivelled up, greasy, and semi-transparent from the breaking down of the fat, so that the tendons and bones can be seen through the skin. At the junction of the dead with the living part there is a faint red blush. In dr}^ gangrene, as a rule, the line of demarcation is not permanent, and after a time fresh gangrene may appear above it. The chief symptom is pain. Moist Gangrene, on the other hand, is characterised by rapid putrefaction of the dead part, and the patient soon shows signs of septic absorption. The gangrenous part is generally reddish at first, and ultimately becomes black ; bullae containing dark foul fluid form over it, and it crepitates on pressure from the presence of gas. The soft