CHAPTER VI. 127 MODES OF HEALING OF WOUNDS. Before discussing the treatment of wounds, it may be well to refer to the modes in which they heal. There are five methods by which heahng may take place—namely, by first intention, by blood-clot, under a scab, by granulation, and by union of granulations. The particular form of healing which occurs depends, in the first place, on whether the edges of the wound have been brought together or remain apart; and, in the second place, on whether causes of suj^puration gain access to the wound, either at tlie time of its infliction or subsequently. The immediate result of the infliction of a wound is bleeding, and blood- clot forms on the cut surface. When this clot is wiped off, it is found that exudation of lymph is taking place beneath ; in other words, a thin microscopic layer of inflammation, going as far as the end of the first stage—namely, exudation—has been set up as the result of the irritation of the knife and the contact of foreign bodies. The result in all wounds, whatever their nature, whether the edges have been brought together or not, is tliat lymph {i.e. fibrin entangling white corpuscles) is poured out and glazes the surface. HEALING BY 'FIRST INTENTION.' When no further causes of inflammation come into play, notably when no bacteria are present between the cut surfaces, this lymph remains and glues the edges of the wound together if they have been brought into aj)position. It then soon becomes infiltrated mth cells ; at first leucocytes, and, later on, other cells from the surrounding tissues pass into it. These apparently feed on the remains of the white corpuscles and destroy them, and they themselves enlarge, become spindle-shaped, and form young fibrous tissue. The result is that, while after the first twenty-four hours the two cut surfaces are separated by a layer of young cells, in the course of three or four days the cells have become spindle- shaped, and some of them are already forming young fibrous tissue. New