DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FINGERS AND TOES 287 the aim of the operation being to allow the joint to be brought straight by removing one of the articular surfaces which enter into it. The operation usually done is removal of the head of the metatarsal ; the great objection to it is, however, that this structure plays a most important part in proper progression, and its removal is likely to interfere seriously with the usefulness of the foot. In bad cases, however, it may have to be done. A perfectly good result, however, can be obtained in the less severe cases that nevertheless call for operative interference, by removing the base of the first phalanx. The operation is done through an incision about an inch in length, parallel and a little internal to the inner border of the extensor tendon. The periosteum is detached from the first phalanx by a suitable rugine, and the base of the bone is then nipped off with a strong pair of cutting pliers. This allows the toe to be brought straight without any tension. The periosteum and any adjacent soft tissues are then turned in so as to cover the raw bony surface and thus to prevent the occurrence of ankylosis. The wound is closed without a drainage-tube, and the toe fixed to a plantar sphnt so padded that the toe is a little hyper-extended. When the wound has healed, the toe and front part of the foot should be put up in a silicate bandage, applied while the arch of the foot is restored as much as possible by bending the metatarsal bones downwards ; this leads to an improvement in the flat foot, whilst the parts are being kept at rest for proper consolidation to occur. After about six weeks the patient may be provided with a Whitman's spring (see Fig. 91), and allowed to walk. The results are usually good ; locomotion is perfectly satisfactory and quite painless. ANTERIOR METATARSALGIA, OR MORTON'S NEURALGIA. This important condition was first fully described by Morton, of Phila- delphia, after whom it is named. It is a painful affection of the anterior part of the foot, usually in the neighbourhood of the heads of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. The pain is neuralgic in character and is referred to the plantar aspect ; it may be so severe that the patient is unable to walk or bear any pressure upon the affected region. It is generally impossible for the patient to wear narrow shoes, and in some cases boots or shoes of any kind cannot be tolerated. It is usually noticed that the pain diminishes or ceases entirely as soon as the shoes are taken oft" and the foot is elevated. Callosities may form upon the sole beneath the head of the fourth metatarsal; sometimes they also form beneath the head of the third, or even the second, and then, to avoid pain, the patient bears his weight upon the inner border of the foot, and avoids putting any pressure upon the outer side at all. These callosities, besides adding considerably to the