ADMINISTRATION OF MIXTURES 465 by dropping on an open mask (p. 460) or on a handkerchief held just above the mouth. Generally speaking, however, an inhaler is desirable; a useful form is the metal mask depicted below (Fig. 208). This apparatus is made of metal, and can be purified in lotions or by heat. The sponge is retained in position by means of a wire guard Fig. 209 (B) and a shield set at an angle (A) prevents the liquid from ranning on to the face. The hinged, perforated, concave top (D) is convenient for charging without removing from the face. It is important that a very free supply of air should be available, so the ventilation holes must be large (J in.) and numerous, and the facepiece ought not to fit over the nose and mouth with any great accuracy, and for this reason a padded facepiece is objectionable. Anaesthesia may be maintained or even induced with ether in these masks, if necessary. In the actual administration two points are to be particularly attended to, viz. : Use small quantities of the mixture frequently repeated, rather than one or two large doses. By this means, the stimulating effects of the ether are more nearly continuous than when a large quantity of the liquid is used at a time. Secondly, in this, as in aU other methods of inducing general antesthesia, it is important to commence the inhalation very gradually, holding the facepiece a few inches from the face to begin with, and gradually bringing it nearer as the vapour is better tolerated. The chief objections which have been urged against the use of the mixture are as follows, viz. : it is sometimes said that an over-strong vapour, consisting chielly of chloroform, is apt to accumulate in the mask below the sponge. The possibihty of this occurring cannot be doubted, and the remedy is equally obvious. The mask must not fit the face at all closely, and must be supphed with plenty of large air-holes, and the anjesthetic must be added in small quantities (3j—6^) at a time. Under this head, too, must be included the objection, that the I. K H Fig. 209.'—Metal Inhaler, in Section. A, Shield; B, Wire guard; C, Sponge; D, Per- forated top. Fig. 208.—Metal Inhaler for Mixtures.