460 ANAESTHETICS Excellent results may be obtained by any plan that is systematically studied and employed. With chloroform, as with every other anaesthetic, it is very important to eommence the inhalation gradually. The evaporating surface must, at first, be held four or five inches from the face, and only brought close over the nose and mouth as consciousness is abolished and toleration established. If there be any retching, as may sometimes happen even in the earlier stages, the anaesthetic should be pressed, when the retching will often cease ; but if vomiting has actually taken place, and the con- tents of the stomach have regurgitated into the mouth, the anaesthetic must be withdrawn, the mouth opened, and the vomited matter removed. The stage of excitement and unconscious struggling requires careful management. The condition of mental and physical turmoil is un- doubtedly a dangerous one, and should not be allowed to become unduly prolonged. On the other hand, the deep inspirations which the patient sometimes takes are apt to overcharge the lungs with vapour, and so to lead to sudden respiratory and circu- latory failure. The best plan, I believe, is to give the antes- thetic freely at these times, but making sure, by raising the inhaler, etc., that the amount Fig. 205.—schimmelbusch's Inhaler. of air is proportionately in- creased. It is dangerous, with chloroform especially, to bring the inhaler closer to the face while struggling is proceeding. The phenomena observed during the induction of anaesthesia with chloroform are very similar to those already alluded to in describing ether anaesthesia (see p. 454). The stage of excitement is perhaps less marked and of shorter duration, and it is followed by a period of depres- sion, in which the blood pressure falls, the pulse becomes smaller and weaker, and the respiration shallower. During the stage of excitement the pupils, as a rule, dilate rather widely, and this dilatation may con- tinue, especially in young children and in the neurotic, for a considerable length of time, if not during the whole period of narcosis ; usually, how- ever, the pupil during the third stage is moderately contracted, i.e. rather smaller than with ether. During the fourth stage, the pupil tends to dilate, often suddenly, and this is an indication that the narcosis is of dangerous depth. Then, again, a rather widely dilated pupil is often the precursor of vomiting, which cannot of course occur unless the patient be but lightly anaesthetised. These alterations in the size of the pupils, when rightly interpreted, afford valuable information to the administrator, but at the same time it is obvious, that we cannot rely upon the pupil