GENU VARUM 383 genu valgum occur after excision of the knee, the choice will lie between a fresh excision, or Macewen's operation ; in most cases the latter is a less severe and an equally satisfactory method. Should genu valgum occur in connection with infantile paralysis, the usefulness of the limb will have to be taken into consideration ; in some cases it may be found best to perform arthrodesis of the knee joint, so as to give the patient a firm and fixed point of support, whilst in others, in which the muscles are fairly healthy, a Macewen's operation, or any of the other operative procedures which we have mentioned, may be emf)loyed. GENU VARUM. This condition is the converse of the one just described, the lower part of the thigh and leg being bowed outwards so that the two limbs form an ellipse, or, in severe cases, almost a circle when the feet are placed together. The affection is usually due to rickets, although a somewhat similar deformity may occur after excision of the knee, from damage done to the inner side of the epiphyseal line ; it is also found in those who have habitually to assume certain positions, such as grooms, etc., who are constantly riding. If the patient be quite young when the deformity starts, it may attain a very marked degree ; when it originates in adult life, how- ever, it is seldom serious enough to call for active treatment. The patient usually walks with the toes turned in, and in bad cases the patella is dislocated inwards. The condition is generally bilateral, although sometimes children suffer from genu valgum on the one side and genu varum on the other. In these cases the deformity has been supposed to be due to the child always being carried upon one arm, so that the legs are pressed towards each other ; one limb is thus forced into a condition of varus, and the other into a condition of valgus. TREATMEjISTT.—In the milder cases splints should be applied to the inner side of the leg and the patient kept off his feet, while at the same time the general treatment suitable for rickets should be employed. In the severer cases, and in those in which the bones have become consoli- dated, osteotomy is necessary. Of the orthopaedic apparatus the best is an internal splint which extends from the perineum to well beyond the foot, and is thickly padded opposite the ankle. This splint should project two inches at least below the toes when the latter are pointed, so as to prevent any possibility of the child walking upon tip-toe. In the more advanced cases, and in those in which the active stage of rickets has passed off, operative interference is often desirable. P~rac- ture of the bones by means of osteoclasts is not to be recommended, for the exact position and nature of the fracture cannot be accurately gauged and considerable damage may be done to the soft parts and to the liga- ments of the knee joint. The only operative treatment to be recom- mended is osteotomy, and when the deformity is very marked, tlie bones