400 DEFORMITIES head of the bone will usually keep in position without the assistance of any apparatus. Treatment must now be directed to strengthening the muscles about the hip joint, especially the abductors, by massage and by the use of suitable exercises against resistance. The patient should attempt to abduct the limb, whilst the nurse opposes the movement ; this strengthens the abductors, which are the main factors in keeping the parts in position. Adduction can be guarded against by raising the heel of the boot on the sound side about one inch ; in time this may be reduced, and ultimately it may be done away with. In bilateral dislocation the outlook is not favourable, but treatment is carried out simultaneously and in a similar manner in the two legs. At the end of about twelve weeks abduction may be so far reduced that the patient can use both legs in walking. Operative Methods.—When a child has reached the age of seven before it comes under observation, the manipulative methods almost uniformly fail, and the only chance of benefit lies in the performance of an open operation ; experience has shown us that, provided the articular cartilage be not removed, considerable improvement is often obtained, and, even when the surgeon fails to get the head of the bone into the acetabulum, considerable benefit will be obtained, since the flexion and adduction of the limb can be overcome, and fixation of the head of the bone can be effected. The operation we practise is done as follows.i The patient is put under an anaesthetic, and any unduly tense structures are divided sub- cutaneously; those generally requiring division are the adductors close to their origin, the fascia lata of the thigh, and sometimes the muscles attached to the anterior superior iliac spine, and even in bad cases the hamstrings. A week or ten days later, under full anaesthesia, manipula- tions designed to stretch the parts are first practised, and then an incision is made downwards and slightly inwards from just beneath the anterior superior iliac spine, over the interval between the sartorius and the tensor fasciee femoris ; in order to facilitate access to the deeper structures the upper end of this incision may be curved out along the iliac crest, and the tensor fascice femoris detached from the bone (see Fig. 140). This incision divides nothing of importance, and gives satisfactory access to the joint. The head and neck of the bone are exposed, and the capsule of the hip joint is slit up from the anterior inter-trochanteric line to the rim of the acetabulum. The finger is passed into the joint and feels for the slit leading into the true acetabular cavity. If this be too small to admit the head of the bone, the front portion of the capsule is detached from the rim of the acetabulum sufficiently to allow the head to pass through it into position. ' See Brit. Med. Journ., 1903, ii. p. 457.