DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. 168 1136. Fracture of the Odontoid Process, taken from a man, aged 20 years, who was struck down by a packing case, which fell from a crane on to his head. Immediately after the injury there was complete paralysis of the trunk and extremities, and the breathing was entirely diaphragmatic. He survived the injury two hours and a half. It will be observed that the fracture passes through the weakest part of the base of the odontoid process, beginning posteriorly at the point at which the nutrient artery enters the bone, and termi- nating at the point of greatest concavity on the anterior surface of the body of the vertebra.—See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xiii, p. 237. 1137. First and second Cervical Vertebras, with part of an Occipital Bone. The odontoid process of the axis, softened and ulcerated, is fractured across its base, just below the level of the transverse ligament. The latter, as well as the other adjacent structures, retain a natural appearance. IV- 46 From a woman, aged 36 years, who had enjoyed good health until ahout four months prior to her death. She then began to complain of obscure pains about the back of the neck, which persisted. In moving about she carried her head stiffly, and always expressed a dread ot moving it suddenly. One morning, whilst stooping over a tub peeling potatoes, her head fell forwards, and she was seen to drop. When picked up, a few seconds later, she was dead.— Vide also Nos. 1094, 1153. 1138. Portion of a Spine, with oblique fractures through the arches of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebras, and a vertical fracture through the body of the fifth. d. 2 (In Cafe C.) 1139. Section of a Spine, in which there is a fracture of the body of the sixth cervical vertebra. The middle and fore part of the body is crushed between the two adjacent vertebras, and its posterior part is pressed backwards into the spinal canal, so that the spinal cord must have been nearly divided. The spinous process of the vertebra retains its natural position. rv. 4 Presented by Henry Earle, Esq. 1140. A portion of the Spinal Column and Cord, including parts of the Cervical and Dorsal Regions. The body of the fourth cervical vertebra is crushed and driven backwards, causing an angular projection, by which the cord is com- pressed. The anterior portions of the vertebras above and below are approxi- mated. From a boy, aged 15 years, who was admitted into the Hospital with complete paraplegia from the shoulders downwards, except that he could slightly move the scapula, and could expel urine and retain fasces. Eespiration was almost entirely diaphragmatic. Six months previously he fell off a scaffold, fifty-five feet high, and struck his neck, but was not stunned. He was taken to the London Hospital, suffering from paralysis of both upper extremities, and remained there two months, when he was discharged not materially better. Two months before his death he became an out-patient at this Hospital, and improved so much that he could raise both hands to his mouth and walk a considerable distance. A fortnight before his death he was thrown down in the street, striking on the back of his head, and was brought to the Hospital in the condition described. 1141. Portion of Spine in the cervical region. There has been a fracture, with separation of the fifth from the sixth vertebra. The upper portion of the spine is displaced forwards, so that the body of the fifth vertebra lies in front of the sixth ; the upper and posterior portion of the latter projects backwards, and obliterates the spinal canal. From a boy aged 15 years, who received an injury to the spine one year and seven months before his death. There was complete paralysis of sensation and motion in the trunk and extremities immediately after the accident. The spinal cord was found to have been com- pletely destroyed at the seat of injury.—See Marley Ward BooJc, vol. iv, p. 209. 1142. Fracture of one of the lower Cervical Vertebra, with displacement of the