DISEASES OP THE TESTICLE, ITS COVERINGS, AND THE SPERMATIC CORD. 415 fibrous tissue, and in one place presents the appearance of fibro-cartilage. The testicle appears normal. The specimen was taken from the body of an old man, who died of senile gangrene of the leg, with bronchitis. He had complained of pain in the testicle only a few days before death. Presented by Mr. P. S. Eve. LOOSE BODIES IN THE TUNICA VAGINALIS. 2754. A flattened Calcareous Body about the size of a pea. It was found loose m the cavity of the tunica vaginalis of a middle-aged man. On one of the sur- faces is a small tubercle, apparently the point of attachment of a pedicle ; and a small fibrous nodule was found on the surface of the testis, close to the head of the epididymis, which was probably the base of the pedicle. Vide No. 2811. DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE AND EPIDIDYMIS. ATROPHY AND ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. 2755. The atrophied Testicle of an old man. xxvm. 26 2756. A Testicle, reduced to half its natural size, in consequence of the pressure of a hydrocele iu the opposite side of the scrotum. The body of the testicle is much more atrophied than the epididymis. xxvm. 25 2757. The Vesiculae Seminales and Vasa Deferentia, with an undeveloped testicle, from an adult. The two vesiculee are of the same size, and they both contained the usual brownish fluid. The undeveloped testicle, with a portion of its vas deferens converted into a solid cord, is in the centre of the preparation. The other testicle was of natural size. xxvm. 53 2758. The right Testicle, very ill-developed, of a man, aged 22 years, who, during life, was of feeble intellect, and subject to epileptic fits. The medulla oblongata was small and unsymmetrical, and after death, clots, evidently old formations, were found in the longitudinal sinus and pulmonary arteries. 2759. The Testicles of an adult, which had been retained within the inguinal canal. Both the glands are much smaller than natural, and with one of them a peritoneal sac is connected. XVII. 54 EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION OF THE TESTICLE. 2760. A Testicle, exhibiting the effects of acute inflammation in its interior. Several irregular cavities extend through the interior of the testicle, which were filled by pus and lymph. The pus has escaped, but portions of the lymph remain. The glandular tissue around these cavities is consolidated. A small quantity of transparent fluid was found in the sac of the tunica vaginalis, and there were partial adhesions between its opposite surfaces. At one part, the tunica albuginea is thin and irregular on its surface, as if yielding to the enlargement of the testicle. xxvm. 55 Prom a man, on whom the operation of lithotrity had been performed. The disease of the testicle commenced a week after the operation, and nearly a week before the patient's death. A portion of the broken calculus had previously become fixed in the urethra. The bladder No. 2398, in Series XXIX, was taken from the same patient. 2761. A Testicle and its membranes divided by a longitudiual section. The testicle, which is seen above, was easily turned out from its membranes. Its structure appears to be but slightly altered, beyond being infiltrated with inflammatory deposit. The membranes are altogether much thickened and otherwise altered, apparently by chronic inflammation. xxvin. 66 From a man, aged 31. The disease had existed about five months.