INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 113 shaft to the other; but, apparently, without implicating either of the articula- tions. The fracture is firmly united by bone placed between the apposed fractured surfaces. C. 118 (In Case H.) 777. A Similar Specimen. (In Case H.) 778. The Femur of a Fowl, fractured obliquely through the middle of its shaft. The ends of the two overlapping portions, are firmly united by bone formed between them and upon their sides. ill. 114 REPAIR OF FRACTURES IN MAN. FORMATION OF ENSHEATHING; OR PROVISIONAL CALLUS. 779. Parts of two Ribs which were fractured a fortnight before death. The extremities of the fractured portions are in close contact, and are surrounded by a broad ring of callus, partially ossified. A section of one of the ribs shows the periosteum continued over the exterior of the callus. EX. 106 780. The outer portion of a Clavicle divided longitudinally, from a boy aged nine years. It was fractured about three weeks before death. The extremities of the fractured portions are surrounded by a ring of provisional callus, but no union lias taken place at the line of fracture between the fragments, in. loo 781. Section of a Humerus, in which a fracture of the middle of the shaft occurred fire weeks before death. The ends of the bone are not united; but they are held firmly together by a ring of rough osseous substance deposited on the whole circumference of their outer surfaces, and extending some way above and below the fracture. m> 55 782. The other half of the Humerus, No. 781, macerated. in. QQ 783. Sections of a Child's Femur, which was fractured thirty days before death. The fracture extends obliquely from behind forwards, and from above down- wards, through about the middle of the shaft. The sharp extremity of the lower fragment projects slightly, but elsewhere the bones are in close apposition. Both fragments,, to a distance of between one and two inches from the line of fracture, are ensheathed in a layer of new bone (provisional callus) At the line of fracture, the new bone, filling the angles between the fragments is a third of an inch in thickness; from this point, in each direction it gradually decreases in thickness till it is lost sight of, and the bone bordering on it only appears more than naturally vascular. The new bone is very finely cancellous; it is inseparably connected with the surface of the old bone and on its outer surface, which is rough and porous, is closely invested by the periosteum beneath which it was formed. The periosteum itself is thickened. The frag-' ments thus ensheathed and held together almost immoveably by the new bone" are not directly united; the line of fracture is still evident between them • but some new bone has been formed in the medullary cavity of each. m' 124 The child was two years and ten months old. The fracture was treated in the n«,.i ™0„ Splints were kept on for three weeks, and, after these were removed"the Lb iJTSSSES at rest. The child, who had appeared healthy and strong, was attackc l w S oonv,ik? °1 died on the thirtieth day after the fracture. Abscesses wtre foundt i nSe bidn? ' OTHER SPECIMENS ILLUSTRATING/ THE PROCESS OF REPAIR OF vd a r* TURES IN MAN. UF FRAC- 784. A united fracture of a Femur taken from a child aged 4 years. Death took 1