INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 141 epiphysis, and a fracture extending between the condyles into the knee-joint. The \aolence of the injury also occasioned the stripping up of the periosteum from the shaft of tl/femur to the ^* protruded through the muscles on the inner side of the thigh Partsi of the periosteum, which were stripped from the shaft, remained attached to the con- dyles A line of new bone is formed on the anterior part of the shaft, along the torn edge of that part of the periosteum which remained attached to the ^From a boy aged 16. The injury was produced by a rope entangled round the leg. Ampu- tation was performed three weeks after the injury. 982. Portion of a Femur, the lower epiphysis of which was separated from the shaft by an injury, and displaced forwards into its present position. 1 he popliteal vein was pressed upon by the projecting lower extremity of the shaft and gangrene was thus produced. (In Case H.) Fide No. 758. PATELLA. 983. A Patella, in which a vertical fracture occurred a short time before death. The tendinous covering of the anterior surface of the bone is entire. Union of the fracture has not commenced. The articular cartilage is in part absorbed; but this had probably occurred before the fracture. in. 52 984. A Patella, with a small piece of bone, which had probably been broken off, and is now connected by ligament with its lateral border. III. 26 985. A Patella, fractured in three lines leading from the centre to the circumference. The portions are completely and closely united by bone, and with very little displacement, the lower portion alone being pushed somewhat forwards. Some new bone is deposited along the lines of fracture on the anterior surface of the patella; the posterior surface is smooth, and presents no new bone ; the margin of one of the fractures has still the appearance of a fracture of recent occurrence. in. 108 It is probable that the fracture was caused by a blow upon the patella. 986. A Patella, showing a fracture which extends transversely through its lower part. The fractured surfaces are in close apposition, and united by soft fibrous tissue; separation was apparently prevented by the untorn expansion over the bone of the tendon of the quadriceps femoris. The outer portion of the anterior surface of the patella is rough and carious : lying upon it is a small fragment of necrosed bone. From a man, aged 65 years, who was admitted into the Hospital with a slough over the patella, the result of a blow on the part, by which the fracture was probably produced. He was progressing favourably, when he fell down stairs and struck his knee. The joint became painful and much swollen. An incision was made into the joint, and decomposing blood let out; suppuration ensued, and rendered amputation necessary.—See Henry Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 307. 987. Two portions of a fractured Patella, which were united by ligamentous substance. The lower portion is much enlarged and altered in form by the deposit of osseous substance upon its borders. in. 72 988. Section of a Patella, in which there has been a transverse fracture. The fractured surfaces are united by a thick band of ligament, about an inch in length, which is smoothly lined, as if by a continuation of the synovial mem- brane. As in the preceding specimens, the fragments are enlarged, but their texture is unaltered. in. 30 989. A Patella, divided longitudinally. It had been fractured during lvfe, and the separated portions have united by ligament. m. 132