203 PLEURA, liiiONCHIAL TUBES, AND LUNGS. haemorrhages into the trachea, had occurred during three or four days before death, and that the blood had flowed down the bronehial tubes into the air-cells. A drawing is preserved, No. 153. 1709. A left Lung. It is engorged with blood, and over its surface numerous ecchymoses, from the size of a pin's head to that of a millet seed, livid m colour, and slightly raised from the surface, are seen. The right lung was m a similar condition. From the same child from whom specimen No. 1296, Series VII, was taken. PY2EMIC INFARCTUS. 1710. Portion of the lower lobe of a Lung, with cavities formed after circum- scribed Gangrene. The walls of the largest cavity are defined, and bounded by consolidated pulmonary tissue: they are irregular, and many small vessels are prominent on their surface. In the adjacent part of the lung are two similar cavities of smaller size. The pleura is thinly covered by organized false membrane. X1V- From a boy, 15 years old, who died a fortnight after receiving a severe compound fracture of the skull, which was followed by hernia cerebri. No sign of disease of the chest was observed. He had extensive suppuration between the membranes of the brain. 1711. Portion of the upper lobe of a right Lung, showing Pyeemic Infarctus. One of these—the pleura covering it having sloughed—has burst into the serous sac, leaving an excavated space surrounded by softened lung tissue. The boy, aged 17, from whom this preparation was taken, died fifteen days after amputation of the left thigh. The left femoral vein was full of purif orm fluid, which had a free entrance into the blood. The bronchial glands, the liver, spleen, kidneys, and certain muscles were also the seats of infarcts, and the right hip, elbow, and left sacro-iliac joints contained purifurm fluid. 1712. Portion of a Lung, showing numerous round or oval livid patches scattered throughout its substance, but no suppuration. Similar spots were found upon both surfaces of the heart, and upon the kidneys. From a child, aged 13 months, who died after three days' illness, which commenced with acute necrosis of the tibia. The tibia is preserved in Series I, No. 37. TUBERCLE AND PHTHISIS. 1713. The Heart and its vessels, with the Lungs, Trachea, and Bronchi of a child who died shortly after birth. The right auricle and ventricle, the pulmonary artery, and the aorta, are laid open, and a bristle is passed through the canal of the ductus arteriosus, which, with the foramen ovale, is still patent. The luugs contain an abundant congenital deposit of soft, yellow Tubercles. xiv. 70 1714. Lungs injected. Their tissues and sub-pleural surfaces are covered with Tubercles, and the bronchial glands are enlarged and indurated. 78 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1715. Portion of a Lung, with small Tubercles scattered through its substance. The lung is minutely injected, but the injection has not penetrated the Tubercles. xiv. 7 1716. Portion of a Lung, with small masses of Tubercular matter very thickly deposited in its substance. They have an opaque yellowish colour, and many of them exhibit minute cavities at their centres. xiv. 9 1717. Section of the apex of a Lung from a young person, exhibiting the deposit of tubercular matter in the form of Miliary Tubeicles—small, round, pale masses imbedded in the substance of the lung, and projecting from its torn surface. Xjy_ ^ 1718. Portions of a Lung, in which Tubercular matter has been deposited. In