DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 254 TUMOURS CONNECTED WITH THE LARYNX. PAPILLOMA, &c. 1645. The Larynx of a child 2 years old. The surface of the mucous membrane lining the thyroid cartilage, the ventricles of the larynx, and the lower part of the epiglottis, is occupied by a wai't-like growth composed of numerous small, oval, pedunculated bodies, closely set together, and of a firm consistence. xxv. 17 The child had had dyspnoea from the time of birth, and died suffocated. 1646. The Larynx of a child. The cavity of the larynx is almost entirely occupied by a warty growth, projecting from its mucous membrane. xxv. 25 The child was 3 years old, and had dyspnoea and cough from a week after its birth. It died with symptoms like those of croup. Tubercles were found in the lungs, spleen, liver, and mesenteric glands. Presented by H. Bateman, Esq. 1647. A Larynx and adjacent parts. A papillomatous growth springs from the surface of and the mucous membrane immediately below the left true vocal cord. A smaller linear extension of the growth also springs from the mucous mem- brane below the right vocal cord. The microscopic characters of the growth were those of true papilloma. From a boy, aged 9 years, who had suffered from symptoms of laryngeal obstruction for about six months. Dux-ing the three weeks preceding his death he had occasional violent attacks of dyspnoea, one of which ultimately proved fatal.—See Pitcaim Ward Book, vol. ii, p. 271. 1648. A Larynx and part of a Trachea. Irregular, soft growths are abundantly clustered about the vocal cords and ventricles. They project into the canal of the larynx so as almost to close it. In structure they resemble imperfect fibro- cellular tissue. xxv. 38 From a boy, aged 12 years, who, twelve months before his death, caught cold and suffered for a time with loss of voice. Treatment failed to benefit him, the apbonia persisting and being, before long, associated with dyspnoea. Respiration was attended with a stridulous sound. He continued his occupation without hindrance. Death took place suddenly from apncea. Presented by Mr. Phillips. 1649. A Larynx laid open. A large growth springs from each vocal cord. That on the left side is covered by warty and fine villous processes. The sur- face of the growth on the right side is smooth. They appear to have almost completely obstructed the glottis. From a man, aged 56 years, who for some months had suffered with extreme hoarseness, and later with considerable difficulty of breathing, with cough, and occasional paroxysms of severe dyspnoea. He, however, continued his occupation as a cabman until a fatal paroxysm occurred, and was brought to the Hospital dead. POLYPUS. 1650. A Larynx. On the upper end and inner aspect of the right true vocal cord, at the junction of its anterior and middle third, there is a small, conical, highly vascular polypus. From a man, aged 63 years, who died of phthisis. There was no history of any laryngeal symptoms. 1651. A Larynx, having two elongated, soft polypoid-looking growths attached to the false vocal cords on either side, and overlapping the ventricles of the larynx. They appeared to be composed of a fold of mucous membrane.