526 URINARY CALCULI. from a boy, aged 13 years, by lateral lithotomy. The patient made a good recovery. 123. Section of a Calcnlus. Oxalate of Lime. Analysis by Dr. Hue. 124. Calculus. Oxalate of Lime. From the bladder of a boy 13 years old. Lithotomy by Sir Wm. Lawrence. 125. Calculus of Oxalate of Lime. Removed from the bladder of a boy aged 18 years. 126. Section of a Calculus. Oxalate of Lime; the exterior is composed of the same, crystallised. 127. Fragments of a large Calculus, mulberry-shaped, and chiefly formed of Oxalate of Lime, which were removed from the bladder of a girl 13 years old. Signs of calculus had existed for twelve months. The removal of the calculus was attempted by dilatation of the urethra after division of its upper wall; but, after the removal of many fragments, broken off with the forceps, the larger part of the mass was left. The patient died with peritonitis six days after the operation. The bladder is in Series XXIX, No. 2437. 128. A Calculus. Nearly pure Oxalate of Lime, in perfect crystals on the external surface. From the bladder of a boy 2| years old. Lithotomy by Sir Wm. Lawrence. 129. Calculus composed of pure Oxalate of Lime, which projects from the surface in the form of octohedral crystals. 130. Calculus of well marked mulberry-like form. Oxalate of Lime. Presented by H. Earle, Esq. 131. Sections of a Calculus composed of Oxalate of Lime. Some portions of the Calculus are of a peculiar golden hue; they contain Urate of Ammonia. 132. Calculus composed of Oxalate of Lime. Crystals of pure white Oxalate of Lime are deposited on brown tuberculated Oxalate of Lime. Passed from the bladder of an old man. Presented by John Goldsmith, Esq. 133. Section of a Calculus. Oxalate of Lime in layers of various structure. 134 Several Calculi, composed chiefly of Oxalate of Lime, which were removed after death from the bladder of an old man. They are irregular m form and rough on their surfaces; the largest of them is three-quarters of an inch in diameter. 135. A Calculus. Oxalate of Lime. Analysis by Dr. Hue. From the urethra of a boy 8 years old. 136. A Calculus. Oxalate of Lime, with a little Uric Acid. Extracted by Mr. Abbott from the urethra.