246 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF VEINS. of the vessels. Traced from below, these clots are arranged in successive layers, fitting cap-like one upon the other, terminating above m a pointed extremity, a mode of termination seen in a clot suspended separately, which was removed trom the right common iliac. The veins opening into the main trunks are obliterated to some extent by coagula, continuous with those already described, .both sides are equally affected. The vena cava retained its natural appearance. 1 he inner coat of the veins obstructed was unaltered, as seen after the removal of. the clots from the vessels of the right side. The tissues around were much thickened and . , , , ° xni. 128 indurated. From a woman who suffered from much obscure pain about the pelvis and groj.after a protract ed labour. She was brought to the Hospital, some months later, in a state of extieme emaciation, the lower extremities (edematous, and the abdomen distended with fluid.-bee St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xiv, p. 327. 1594. A rio-ht common Iliac Vein, with the termination of the left, and of the right internal and external iliacs. They are opened on their posterior surface;so as to expose the coagula within. One of these occupies the external iliac, and was thence continued^ the femoral. It is firm and contracted, everywhere in contact with the shrunken vein wall, the outer coat of which and the surrounding tissues are thickened. This coagulum ends at the junction of the internal ilia&c, above which is a larger clot, the interior of whmh is soften^d and diffluent, forming a puriform mass separated from the circulation by the thm shell of fibrin shown in the preparation. x ■ From a man who died with chronic inflammation of the contents of the pelvis. 1595. Portions of the left common, external, and internal Iliac Veins. They jare completely filled up by firm and partially decolorised blood clots, extending to Poupartlyiigament. Below the ligament, the clot in the femoral vein was dis- integrated. From a man aeed 35 years, who was admitted to the Hospital with phlegmonous erysipelas oftoe riXt Z and 1 Profuse suppuration occurred, and he appeared to be recovering wh^p^o^TperWl, Of which he died ten days later and five weeks after admxssion to Mortal. Five days before death, the left leg and thigh became» c^taus. The pulmonary artery containing coagula is preserved m No. 1748, Series XI. 1596 A Femoral Vein, from the junction of the profunda to an inch above the canal of Hunter. Its walls present a natural appearance, but its canal is occupied by a conical clot, which retains the colour and the appearance noticed LZrecent state. About its middle, it was, internally soft and diffluent, so that when cut into a sort of cavity quickly resulted, from the escape of its contents Tb is clot clung, but did not adhere, to the lining of the vein and waslarther reWd in its position by its connection with other clots which flUed all the communicating branches. It terminates above, at a point where a We vein open'Tnto the femoral, and here its shape seems to be influenced by SLrrent of blood thus directed upon its surface. The tissues around were extensIveTy ecchymosed, and all the smaller veins were filled with fibrinous clots more or less decolorised, and apparently of older date than that which ml tS femoral. The soft portions of the coagulum consisted of granular matter and fat. m t •-T, k^w of n feeble old man, who died three weeks after sustaining a fracture at the ^the Smur The muscles and other tissues of the upper half of the thigh were he neck of the left *™*V*2 There wa8 8iight oedema of the foot and leg, but no other ' ^ptlreSl tXS to draw attend to the condition of the vessel detected at the post mortem examination. 1597 A preparation in many respects similar to the preceding. The clot which 61L,' ttSoral vein is tough, Bnn, and decolorised. The vessel » snrronnded