DISPLACEMENTS OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL AND OMENTUM. 331 the gut had been returned, a piece of bone, was discovered behind and external to the Bac. This, on being removed, proved to be part of the rib of a rabbit, lhe patient died of peritonitis. On dissection the two openings in the intestine were observed, and also a perforation of the posterior wall of the sac. It is probable that the bone lodged in the protruded intestine and prevented its reduction.—See St. Bartholomew s Hospital Keporls, vol. iv, p. 261. INTUSSUSCEPTION. OF THE ILEUM INTO THE CffiCUM. 2180. Intussusception of the Small Intestine of a child. The lower portion of the intestine is laid open, and the inverted upper portion is shown ensheathed in it. xvii. 60 2181. Intussusception at three adjacent portions of the Intestinal Canal. 129 From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2182. Portion of Ileum inverted into the cavity of the adjoining Caecum. Between the serous layers is a band of mesentery carried down with the portion of inverted ileum, and to its tense condition is due the curved direction of the central canal. The inverted layer of mucous membrane is thickened, especially where it curves round to be continued up the central tube. xvn. 91 2183. Intussusception of a large portion of the Ileum, and of the Appendix Ca ei, within the Caecum and ascending Colon. There is a diverticulum ilei which has passed into the colon with the intussuscepted ileum, but has become inverted, and has passed back again into the ileum, thus producing a double intussusception, of the ileum within the colon and of the diverticulum within the ileum. At the upper part of the preparation is the caecum with the com- mencement of the intussusception and the inverted diverticulum ilei; at the lower part is the whole of the intussuscepted ileum, which was of a dark-brown colour, its vessels being distended with blood. xvii. 61 The patient was a man, 36 years old, who for six months before his death had often suffered pain in the abdomen. He died with peritonitis and obstruction of the intestines. OF THE ILEUM AND CiECUM INTO THE COLON. 2184. Intussusception, in which a considerable portion of the Ileum with the Caecum and its Appendix, have been inverted into the cavity of the ascendin°- colon. xvii. 62 2185. Intussusception from a child. The caecum and a portion of the ileum are inverted and protruded into the colon. Lymph is deposited on the protruded portion of the intestine. XVII. 72 The intussusception was fatal by its obstruction to the passage of the intestinal conteuts. Presented by H. Bateman, Esq. OF THE LARGE INTESTINE. 2186. Intussusception. The caecum and right lumbar portion of the colon are inverted and protruded into the arch of the colon, which is laid open to show the intussuscepted intestine projecting into its cavity. A piece of glass is introduced into the orifice of the intussuscepted intestine, which in some degree retains the dark colour it presented in the recent state. From a child, 2 years old, who died after a few days' illness, in consequence of the obstruc- tion m the ahmentary canal. Presented by William Eadnor, Esq. 2187. Large Intestine of a boy, aged three and a half years. The caecum ascen mg and part of the transverse colon are invaginated into the lower half