464 DISEASES AND INJURIES INCIDENTAL TO GESTATION AND PARTURITION. of the uterus still exists, and exhibits no appearance of granulations. Other smaller lacerations of the mncous membrane of the vagina are seen on its sides. A band of lymph extends from the vagina to the rectum. xxxn. 45 The patient was a woman, 25 years old. In two previous labours she had been delivered with the help of instruments. The laceration here sbown occurred twenty-eight hours from the commencement of her third labour. She was again delivered with the help of instruments. Peritonitis followed, from which she gradually sank. The case is described by Mr. Birch, in the Medico-Chirurgieal Transactions, vol. xiii, p. 357. London, 1827. 3085. An Ovarian Cyst, which had protruded through the external parts by rupture of the vagina during labour, and was afterwards removed by ligature, with success. xxxi. 34 This case is related by Mr. Brewer in the Obstetrical Society's Transactions, vol. xx, p. 184. LACERATION OF THE PERINEUM. 3086. Specimen showing a laceration of the Perineum nearly to the anal margin. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. SLOUGHING- OF VAGINA. 3087. A Vagina and Rectum, with the external organs of generation. The whole circumference of the uterine extremity of the vagina is soft and floccalent, having sloughed in consequence of the long-continued compression, between the head of the child and the brim of the pelvis, to which it was sub- jected during a tedious parturition. xxxn. 43 Presented by Dr. Conquest. VESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. 3088. A Uterus, with the upper part of the Vagina, and the urinary bladder. In consequence of injury received in parturition, a large oval communication exists between the vagina and the neck of the bladder. The margins of the opening in the bladder are close to the orifices of the ureters, through which bristles are passed. The os uteri is obliterated. xxxn. 44 3089. A Large Vesico-vaginal Fistula. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. TUMOURS OBSTRUCTING OR COMPLICATING DELIVERY. 3090. A large fibrous Tumour of the Uterus, removed from the body of a woman, aged 38. It obstructed delivery at the eighth month, which was ultimately effected by turning. Abdominal inflammation supervened, which proved fatal. xxxn. 72 3091. A Uterus, with the ovaries and their ligaments. Springing from the os and cervix uteri, there is a large excavated irregularly ulcerated mass of epithelioma. In the front wall of the uterus is a vertical depressed scar. From a woman, aged 27, who during her fourth pregnancy was admitted into the Hospital with extensive epithelial cancer of the cervix uteri. At the end of the eighth month of her pregnancy Caesarian section was performed. The operation wound quickly healed, and her general health improved, as did also the local disease. Subsequently the disease assumed rapid progress, and she died of exhaustion eighteen months after the operation.—See Medical Times and Gazette, April 6, 1866, p. 362. INVERSION OF THE UTERUS. 3092. A Uterus, which was removed by the ecraseur, from a woman, 28 years of age, on account of inversion of three years' duration. The inversion was said to have been produced in the removal of the placenta two days after delivery.— See Martha Ward Book, June, 1873. Vide Nos. 2949 to 2951 in Series XLIII.