DISPLACEMENTS OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL AND OMENTUM. COVERINGS OF THE SAC. 2125. Dissection of a right oblique Inguinal Hernia. The cremasteric fascia, infundibuliform or fascia transversalis, and the sub-peritoneal tissue are dissected up and reflected from a portion of the sac. The sac is filled by a mass of indurated omentum, Avhich was connected with the great omentum by a narrow pedicle ; there were no adhesions to the sac, but the hernia was irreducible. The internal and external abdominal rings are approximated. From a man, aged 42 years, who was admitted to the Hospital in a dying condition. Post Mortem :—A portion of gangrenous intestine was found lying near the right inguinal canal. A hernia, to which he had been subject for six years, became strangulated six days before his admission. After repeated trials he himself succeeded in returning something on the third day, and his symptoms were relieved.—See Fit cairn Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 207. OBLIQUE INGUINAL, HERNIA. Incomplete. 2126. Incomplete Inguinal Hernia, containing strangulated intestine. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle is divided and turned upwards. The sac, containing a small portion of strangulated intestine, is opened from the front. The lower border of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles crosses over the neck of the sac. Two bristles are passed between the mouth of the sac, where the thickened peritoneum constitutes the stricture, and the strangulated intestine. Another bristle is passed beneath the epigastric vessels. xvn. 11 Vide No. 2166. Complete Oblique Inguinal Hernia. 2127. A left Oblique Inguinal Hernia, the sac of which has just passed through the opening in the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. The several coverings of the sac are displayed, and its cavity is laid open from the side. A bristle is passed beneath the epigastric artery, where it passes on the inner margin of the internal ring. xvn. 4 2128. Oblique Inguinal Hernia on the left side, showing the injected epigastric artery passing round the inner side of the mouth of the sac. The sac is laid open and separated from its immediate coverings. The obturator artery arises by a common trunk with the epigastric. xvn. 45 2129. Oblique Inguinal Hernia, dissected to show the change in the relative posi- tion of the external and internal inguinal rings, in consequence of oblique hernia of long standing. The internal abdominal ring is drawn down and nearly oppo- site to the external ring. Xyn 7^ Tide Nos. 2081 to 2084, 2121, 2130, 2132, 2135. DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. 2130. Two Inguinal Herniae, one direct, the other oblique. On the right side the hernia is oblique and has descended into the scrotum. The epigastric artery is close to the inner margin of the mouth of its sac, and the spermatic cord is behind the sac. On the left side the hernia is direct, having passed from the abdomen directly through the external inguinal ring. The epigastric artery is near the outer margin of the mouth of its sac ; and the spermatic cord is between the sac and the outer column of the external ring. The sac of this hernials withdrawn from the covering of the fascia transversalis, which was pro- truded before it, and is inverted towards the abdominal cavity. XV1I 99 Tide No. 2152. T 2