340 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE GALL-BLADDER AND BILIARY DUCTS. mucus with flaky masses suspended in it. _ There was a distinct history of the occasional passage of gall-stones, accompanied by jaundice. xix. From the same patient from whom the Specimen No. 2019 was taken, Series XVIII. 2249. A Gall-Bladder, with large Gall-Stones impacted in its neck. xix. 18 2250. A large Gall-Stone in the lower portion of the common bile-duct. From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2251. Portion of Liver with its Gall-Bladder. The common duct is dilated into a considerable pouch, and thus indicates the situation of a gall-stone, which was lodged in its canal. From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2252. Portion of a Duodenum, with a large Hydatid, rolled up, and impacted in the common bile-dnct, which it dilates, and from which a portion of it protrudes into the intestine. XIX- The patient was a boy 14 years old. Three months before death he had signs of acute in- flammation of the liver, and'six days before death had acute pain in the right hypochondrium, followed by jaundice. He was relieved for a time, but the pain recurred with greater severity, and he died delirious. There was a great cyst full of hydatids in the right lobe of the liver. By thiclcening and obliteration of the Ducts. 2253. A Gall-Bladder, with the Bile-Ducts. The cystic duct is obliterated, and its coats are nearly as hard as cartilage. The coats of the hepatic and common ducts are, in the greater part of their extent, a line m thickness and indurated. The gall-bladder is dilated; it contained a yellowish-white fluid. xix. 5 From a woman 40 years old. She had been deeply jaundiced for six weeks. The liver was very large and hard. Vide Nos. 2255, 2261, 2262. By Tumours. 2254. Portion of a Duodenum, with a small soft medullary tumour, surrounding and' closing the orifice of the common bile-duct. The tumour appears to grow from the mucous membrane. The adjacent parts are healthy. xix. 13 The patient, a woman, 27 years old, was intensely jaundiced for three months before death. For the last nine days of her life she had copious haemorrhage from the gums nose, and intes- tines and in the last two days discharged from the latter scarcely anything but blood. She died comatose. The case is recorded by Dr. Ormerod, in the Lancet, 1846. By pressure from without. 2255. A Gall-Bladder and Ducts, with the adjacent Lymphatic Glands. The coats of the gall-bladder are much thickened, especially around its neck; and their section displays a dense, greyish, semi-transparent substance, like hard cancer. At the ductus cysticus the thickening has taken place to such an extent as to obliterate the canal. At this part, also, and around the neck of the gall-bladder, the lining membrane is thickened, rough, and tuberculated. At the base of' the gall-bladder there is a small circular growth, composed of numerous close-set little processes upon narrow pedicles. The lymphatic glands around the biliary ducts are much enlarged and indurated, and had the appearance of glands affected by carcinomatous disease. xix. 3 From a woman, between 30 and 40 years old, who had also carcinomatous disease of the ovaries, kidneys, and lumbar lymphatic glands. 2256. A Duodenum, with the common Bile-Duct and the adjacent lymphatic