DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE STOMACH. 295 three patches in winch the mucous membrane is of a dull white colour, obviously sloughed: these sloughs being quite contiauous with the surrounding mucous membrane. The size of each slough was equal to a sixpenny piece. Around each of these was a dark hyperaemic ring, and several large vessels were connected with each spot, Besides these sloughs, there are two ulcers of about the same .size, but perfectly clean and with sharply cut edges. There seems to be little doubt that these appearances were due to simple gastric sloughing and ulcera- tion in the earliest stages, and not to any specific lesion. The stomach was full of altered blood.—See Post Mortem Bool; vol. ii, p. 306. CICATRISATION OF ULCERS. 1918. Part of a Stomach, with the scar of an ulcer in its mucous and sub-mucous tissues. The place of the scar is marked by radiating wrinkles of the mucous membrane, which converge to it. The membrane itself, both at and around the Bear, appears healthy. The ulcer was probably a simple chronic one, such as in Kos. 1910 and 1911, &c, has proceeded to perforation of the stomach. MORBID GROWTHS. POLYPUS. 1919. A Stomach, exhibiting numerous pendulous and lobulated growths, like polypi, springing from its mucous membrane. They apparently consist of a tissue similar to that of the membrane itself. The intervening parts of the mucous membrane have a peculiar villous appearance, like the interior of small intestine when the villi are distended. XV. 17 1920. A small Polypoid Growth, suspended from the mucous membrane of the stomach. Its surface is darkened by granules of black deposit. appendix. 3 1921. Pyloric portion of a Stomach from a man, aged 68 years, who died from apoplexy. The mucous membrane is thrown into ridges, and several small pedunculated tumours (as in No. 1919) are attached to it. The largest was, in the recent state, the size of a cherry.—See Post Mortem Booh, vol. i, p. 322. xv. 41 A drawing is preserved, No. 208. Vide No. 1907. CANCER. 1922. Stomach from a woman aged 47 years. The organ is very small, and all parts are greatly thickened by a cancerous infiltration, except the cardiac and pyloric orifices. The walls are quite three-quarters of an inch thick, and the stomach looks almost like a gizzard. The ileum and the omentum were also affected with cancer.—See Post Mortem Booh, vol. iii, case 146. 1923. The half of a Stomach enlarged, with thickening and induration of its coats from the formation of scirrhous cancer. xv 5 1924. Section of a small contracted Stomach, exhibiting similar changes. xv. 16 1925. Cancer of the Pylorus. A scirrhous tumour projects from the serous surface externally, near the commencement of the duodenum. 105 From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1926. Scirrhous Cancer of the Pylorus. From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1927. A Stomach, with a large round lobular tumour at the pyloric end and smaller tumours near it. The largest tumour is attached to the exterior of the