374 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. the petrous portion. The tumour is probably of fibroplastic structure; it is firm and close-textured, and, in the recent state, had a greyish hue deeply mottled and suffused with various shades of crimson, pink, and purple. It is thus represented in the drawing, No. 370. vi.. 74 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BRAIN. EFFUSION OF BLOOD UPON THE SURFACE, AND INTO THE SUBSTANCE OF THE BRAIN (APOPLEXY). 2470. Portion of Cerebrum, with an extensive effusion of blood upon its surface beneath the arachnoid membrane. 2471. An Aneurism of the Anterior Communicating Artery. The aneurism, about the size of a hempseed, had ruptured, and blood was poured out into the pia mater of the brain and spinal cord. The left ventricle of the Heart was much hypertrophied ; the left kidney was much atro- phied, the cause of atrophy being not apparent. No thrombi were discovered anywhere. No atheroma of aorta or of meningeal arteries. From a man, aged 20 years.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. ii, p. 338. 2472. Cerebellum, Pons, and Medulla Oblongata, from a man, aged 45 years. Upon the basilar artery was an aneurism the size of a grain of wheat, which had burst. The blood had broken through the lamina cinerea into the ventricles. The pia mater from the chiasma opticum down to the cauda equina was full of blood. The arteries at the base of the brain were rigid; the heart natural. See JOuke Ward Book, January, 1871, p. 4. For other Specimens of Cerebral Aneurism, see Series VIII, JVos. 1516 to 1530. 2473. Portion of Cerebrum, in the substance of which there is a large dark apoplectic clot of blood, apparently recently effused. There is also an effusion of blood upon the surface of the brain, beneath the arachnoid membrane. The blood within the brain is loosely connected with the sides of the cavity in which it lies. vi. 9 2474. Portion of Cerebrum, in the substance of which there is an apoplectic clot of longer standing. The blood, partially decolorised, is of a much lighter colour, and appears drier, than that in the preceding specimen. The surface of the clot is in close contact with the adjacent substance of the brain, vi. 10 The specimen was taken from a person who had had two apoplectic attacks at distant periods. 2475. Portion of Cerebrum, in the substance of which is a dark, apoplectic clot of blood, recently effused. Blood is also effused under the pia mater. 1 From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2476. Portion of Cerebrum, containing a large apoplectic clot of about six months' standing. The red colour has in great measure disappeared. 2 From the same patient as the preceding specimen. The man was recovering from the symptoms which this haemorrhage Lad occasioned, when the comparatively small effusion took place, and instantly destroyed him. The other viscera were healthy. From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2477. Two portions of Cerebrum lacerated by effused blood, the red colour of which has entirely disappeared. 3 From the same patient as the preceding specimens. Presented by Mr. Baker. From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D.