DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE STOMACH. 294 1911. The Pyloric portion of a Stomach, with the commencement of the Duo- denum. About two inches from the pylorus, in the lesser arch of the stomach, is an ulcer which has penetrated through all the coats. In the peritoneal coat the aperture is oval, abrupt, and sharp-edged; that in the mucous membrane has similar characters, but is much larger; the sides of the ulcer shelve smoothly and gradually from the aperture in the mucous, to that in the peritoneal coat. Around this ulcer are several of smaller size and irregular in form, which have removed only the mucous membrane. Their margins are clean and abrupt, and their bases are smooth. The intervening tissue appears healthy. xv. 25 1912. Portion of the anterior wall of a Stomach, in which there is an oval ulcer, like that in the preceding specimen. The form of the base of the ulcer indicates that it made progress from the mucous to the peritoneal coat, by several distinct steps or stages. xv* ^9 From a girl, 20 years old, who, while in apparently good health, was suddenly attacked hy acute peritonitis, and died in twenty hours. Presented by J. F. Harding, Esq. 1913. The Pyloric extremity of a Stomach. There is a deep ulcer, one and a half inches long by two-thirds of an inch broad, situated about one inch from the pylorus on the posterior surface near the lesser curvature. The edges of the ulcer are thickened and overhanging, and on the floor, partly formed by the pancreas, the extremities of two blood-vessels filled with clot are seen. A con- traction of the stomach was produced by the ulcer to such an extent that only the little finger could be passed through it. The pylorus, at the lower part of the specimen, is laid open. From a woman aged 54 years, who was admitted to the Hospital with vomiting about one hour and a half after food, tenderness over epigastrium, and haematemesis. About twenty-two years before she bad an attack of vomiting after food, which lasted a few weeks, and she had had similar attacks of varying duration every few years, but without bsematemesis.—Matthew Ward Book, vol. viii, p. 197. See Post Mortem Book, vol. vii, p. 452 ; also Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. xxxi, 1881. 1914. Portion of a Stomach, exhibiting a large ulcer with cleanly cut margins, which at the upper part has penetrated the wall of the stomach by two irregular openings. There is another smaller, elongated, but deeper ulcer nearer the pyloric orifice. The wall of the stomach, especially the mucous membrane, is much thickened. A piece of glass tube is inserted into the cardiac orifice. From a man. aged 57 years, who had been already ill nine months before his admission to the Hospital, with pain in the abdomen, constant pyrosis, but without vomiting of food.—See Matthew Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 355. Post Mortem Book, vol. vii, p. 370 ; and Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. xxxi, 1881. 1915. Part of a Stomach, with small portions of the Liver and Pancreas adherent to it. There is a large and deep oval ulcer just below and to the right of the cardiac orifice of the stomach, which has extended into the pancreas, destroying in its progress a portion of the splenic artery. A bristle is introduced into the ulcerated orifice of the artery, from which fatal haemorrhage took place into the cavity of the stomach. XY- 14 1916. Ulceration of the Mucous Membrane lining the Stomach. In its progress, a considerable artery, indicated in the preparation by a bristle, was opened, and the patient died from the consequent haemorrhage. 99 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1917. Stomach of a man, aged 22, who died from typhoid fever. The intestinal ulcers had perforated the bowel, and vomiting was a marked symptom of the peritonitis consequent upon the perforation. In the smaller curvature of the stomach are