DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 429 ENLARGED PROSTATE GLANDS, PIERCED OR WOUNDED BY INSTRU- MENTS. „ 2842. A Bladder, with the Prostate Gland, exhibiting a general enlargement ot the gland, with predominant enlargement of its middle lobe. Ihe enlarged middle lobe, and the portions of the gland and of mucous membrane which connect it with the enlarged lateral lobes, form a ridge across the neck ot the bladder, behind the orifice of the urethra. Through the middle of this ridge a passage was formed by a catheter. xxix. o Presented by E. S. Eyles, Esq. Vide also Nos. 2837, 2838, 2849 in this Series; and 2423 in Series XXIX. FATTY DEGENERATION. 2843. Portion of a Prostate Gland which appears to have undergone complete fatty degeneration of all its structures. Its cut surfaces have the aspect of a firm, minutely lobed adipose tissue. xxix. 28 The patient was upwards of 70 years old. He had old stricture of the urethra, diseased bladder, and granular degeneration of the kidneys. ABSCESS IN THE PROSTATE GLAND. 2844. A Bladder and Prostate Gland. The prostate is almost completely destroyed and its place occupied by a large abscess cavity, the wall of which is formed apparently by the capsule of the gland. The abscess cavity com- municated above with the urethra, and also with an abscess between the bladder and symphysis pubis. A portion of glass rod is inserted into the urethra, and smaller portions are inserted into the ejaculatory ducts. The vesiculse seminales are compressed. The bladder is contracted and its wall is thicker than normal. The ureters are extremely dilated, and their openings into the bladder would admit a goose-quill. The pelves'of the kidneys were dilated, and the parenchyma was atrophied and contained cysts. No stricture of the urethra could be found. From a man, aged 39 years. His illness commenced three months before his admission to'the Hospital. He suffered from great pain in the bladder, difficulty in micturition, and passed ammoniaeal urine. For the last eight years he had occasionally passed small stones from the bladder.—See Pitcairn Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 303. 2845. A Prostate Gland, in each lateral lobe of which there is a large irregular cavity, formed by ulceration, and communicating with the urethra by the sides of the caput gallinaginis. Urinary calculi have been formed in these cavities. The mucous membrane at the neck of the bladder aud in the prostatic part of the urethra is diffusely ulcerated. xxix. 10 TUBERCULAR DISEASE. 2846. Sections of a Prostate Glaud from a young man, with round circumscribed masses of caseous matter deposited in it. xxix. 19 There were tubercles in the lungs and other organs. The bladder of the same patient is preserved in Series XXIX, No. 2413. 2847. Prostate Gland, Vesiculce Seminales, and part of the Bladder. Sections of the prostate and left vesicula seminalis exhibit caseous matter deposited in the interior of each. In the vesicula seminalis the caseous matter forms a uniform lining to the mucous membrane, the reticular arrangement of the sur- face of which remains distinct. The prostate is almost uniformly infiltrated through its left half, and some of the caseous matter is softened : the right side of the prostate is nearly healthy. xxix. 20 From a young man in whom there were tubercles of the lungs and other organs. His left kidney is preserved in Series XXVIII, No. 2340. The right kidney was healthy. The left testicle had caseous deposits in its interior: the right was healthy. 2848. A Prostate Gland, of which nearly the whole substance has been destroyed by tubercular ulceration. Only a thin shell of the gland remains surrounding a cavity with irregular walls, which was traversed by some cords of the indurated