DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. 107 through the fifth and sixth intervertebral foramina. At the last-named points it involves, chiefly on the right side, the nerves which principally form the brachial plexus. The vertebral arteries pass through the lower part of the tumour, and the canal of the right is somewhat narrowed. The spinal cord is compressed by the expansion of the posterior wall of the body of the sixth cervical vertebra, the antero-posterior diameter being lessened chiefly upon the right side. A portion of bone is separated from the remainder of the body to show the extent of encroachment upon the canal. iv. 47 The woman, from whom this preparation was obtained, died with recurrent sarcoma, originating in the uterus, and produced as a secondary formation in the pericardium, lungs, and body of the sixth cervical vertebra. Before death she Buffered from paralysis, especially affecting the right arm and leg. The case is fully described in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. ix, p. 327. 1131. Section of seven Dorsal Vertebras, from a man who died with scirrhous cancer of the breast and other organs. Five of these vertebras are affected with scirrhous cancer. In the first and last two the cancellous tissue is filled, and in great measure displaced by firm, greyish substance, which had exactly the same characters as the cancer of the breast. Of the two middle vertebras nothing remains but fragments, infiltrated with cancerous substance, and enclosed in a cavity which was filled with other detached fragments and softened cancer. The intervertebral substance between these two vertebras is dis- organised, and its remains lie in the cavity with their fragments ; the correspond- ing substances between the vertebras above and below are softened at their centres. iv. 39 The chief indication of this affection of the spine was severe pains, like those of rheumatism, in the lower extremities and loins. The cancerous breast is in Series XLVII, No. 3172. There was also a tumour of the humerus, winch is preserved in Series I, No. 510. 1132. Section of the Lower Dorsal and Upper Lumbar Vertebras, from a man, aged 56. There is considerable atrophy of the osseous tissue, the cancelli of which are occupied by a soft vascular pulp. This, under the microscope, presented numerous cells, possessing all the characters of those of soft cancer. A similar change had taken place in the ribs, the sternum, and the upper half of the iliac bones. A small cancerous tumour was attached to the inner surface of the second bone of the sternum. The duration of his illness was four months. 1133. The other half of the previous specimen, macerated and dried. It shows more plainly the great extent to which the vertebras have been destroyed. 1134. Part of a Sacrum and the lower Lumbar Vertebras. The right ala and a portion of the middle of the sacrum, and also the right side and centre of the body of the last lumbar vertebra, have been, destroyed by a morbid growth. From a man, aged 53 years, who died with a malignant pulsating tumour, springing from the right ilium, which had existed for three years. The tumour was soft and brain-like: it had almost entirely destroyed the iliuin, and had extended to the sacrum and spine. INJURIES OF THE SPINE. FRACTURE. 1135. Portion of a Spine, in which the right half of the posterior arch of the atlas has been completely detached by fracture. IV, 7