DISEASES AXD INJURIES OF THE STOMACH. 296 pylorus and the adjacent parts of the stomach and duodenum. It consists of a close-textured, broken, medullary substance, intersected by white bands. Some of the other tumours project into the cavity of the pyloric portion of the stomach; and in the corresponding part of the mucous membrane there is a large ulcer with elevated and everted edges. xv- 3 1928. The Pylorus, seen from the inner aspect of the Stomach. It is almost completely surrounded by a soft, spongy mass of medullary cancer. xv. 38 From the body of a man, aged 40 years, who had suffered for some months (six or seven) from an obscure affection of the abdomen. The growth could be felt beneath the abdominal wall, in the epigastric region, as a soft, movable tumour, apparently as big as an orange. A prominent symptom during life was very severe pain at the epigastrium. 1929. A Stomach, with a large, probably medullary tumour growing from its mucous membrane near the pylorus. The tumour is of an oval form, lobed on its surface, and consisting of a firm substance intersected by white lines. The mucous membrane immediately around it is thickened'and indurated. xv. 12 From a man 52 years old. The disease appeared to have been four years in progress. Presented by William Eadnor, Esq. 1930. Part of a Stomach, showing an extensive deposit of medullary cancer projecting from its mucous aspect into the interior of the organ. xv. 34 1931. Portion of the great end of a Stomach, exhibiting a large cancerous ulcer of its coats. The arch of the colon is adherent to the diseased part, and is penetrated by the ulcer extending through it from the stomach. xv. 19 1932. A large nodular growth of Medullary Cancer, involving the cardiac extremity of the stomach, and projecting into its interior from the mucous lining. 106 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1933. Cancerous Deposit at the Pylorus, with a large ulcer extending over the adjacent surface of the stomach. lt>4 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1934. Portion of the great end of a Stomach, exhibiting ulcers (? cancerous) on its mucous membrane. Each ulcer is nearly circular, and has a smooth elevated surface, and a thickened margin. The intervening portions of the mucous membrane appear healthy. XY- ^0 COLLOID CANCER. 1935. Portion of a Stomach, exhibiting the changes of structure characteristic of Colloid Cancer, with ulceration of its coats. There is a large and deep u'cer of circular form, the base and borders of which are formed by a thick, hard, fibrous tissue, containing minute cells filled by a clear jelly. In two situations the ulcer has penetrated all the coats of the stomach. xv. 2 1936. Extensive Colloid Cancer of the Stomach and Omentum, xv. 37 From a woman, aged 48 years, in whom symptoms referable to the disease had existed for seven months. 1937. Part of a Colloid Cancer of the Stomach. In addition to the structure common to such a growth, it contains numerous white deposits scattered irregularly amongst the loculi. They are hard and calcified.