DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE 266 firm, whitish, medullary substance. The pulmonary tissue surrounding them appears healthy. XIV- ^2 1736. Portions of a Lung, in which masses of a firm, white, cancerous substance are irregularly deposited. Some of the small branches of the pulmonary artery are filled with a similar substance, which appears in them like fine ramifying lines in the substance of the lung. XIV- 19 1737. Portion of Lung containing an irregular mass of New-Growth. 82 From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1738. Rounded masses of New-Growth seen on the cut surface of a portion of lung. 85 From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1739. Masses of New-Growth in Lung Tissue. Some of them are softened and disintegrated, and some making their way through the pleura project into the serous sac. 8 From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1740. Portion of a Lung, in which there are several circumscribed deposits of a very firm, white and greyish, New-Growth. Most of the deposits are on the surface of the lung and are flattened by the resistance of the wall of the chest. They are from a quarter to half an inch in diameter and irregular in their forms. The adjacent tissue of the lung is healthy. xiv. 43 From the same patient as the sarcomatous tumours of the breast, Nos. 3163, 3164, in Series XLYIII, and No. 1903 in Series XVII. 1741. Section of both Lungs, and of the parts contained in the upper portion of a Posterior Mediastinum, all involved in a large New-Growth (? lympho- sarcoma). At and near the middle of the specimen appear the sections of the left bronchus, the arch of the aorta pushed to the left, the left vena innominata similarly displaced, the left pulmonary artery and veins. All these are much compressed by the cancerous mass surrounding them. Numerous bronchial glands, filled with cancerous matter, are imbedded in the same mass. Similar cancerous deposits in the right lung occupy nearly all its natural textures, leavino- only black lines and spots marking their former places and arrangement. The left lung (part of which is shown at the back of the specimen) was healthy. The New-Growth is milk-white, or greyish-white; in some parts firm, in others soft, and easily reduced to pulp. XIY- 68 The patient was a porter, 33 years old. He had had cough and dyspnoea for about twelve months • and, for about ten weeks, had increasing oedema, and other signs of venous obstruc- tion in the head, face, and upper extremities, which gradually extended to the abdomen and lower extremities. The only considerable disease, in addition to those mentioned above, was dilatation of the broncM of the right lung, which appeared like cavities filled with pus. The case is fully related in the St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. in, p. 183. 1742. Portion of a Lung, showing small roundish white Tumours on the surface ' of the pleura. tt xiv- 68 From a man, aged 54 years, who died with effusion into the right pleura. He had been ill for three months, with pleuritic effusion, and was thrice tapped. Presented by Mr. Marriott. 1743 Portion of a Lung, containing Tumours of lobular form, white, obscurely fibrous and as hard as cartilage. The pulmonary texture adjacent to the tumours appears healthy. The largest tumour projects beyond the surface of the lung, and has some black substance deposited m it. xiv. 3 1744 Part of the apex of a Lung, with a small nodulated fibro-cartilaginous Tumour which is imbedded immediately beneath the pleura, but projects beyond the surface of the lung. All the adjacent tissues appear healthy. xiv. 59 The patient, a girl, died with pneumonia in the lower lobe of this lung.