402 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. 2657. Complete detachment of the Retina. The sight of the eye was lost by an injury fifteen years before its removal, which was rendered necessary by severe pain. 2658. An Eye, in which the Cornea is very small and opaque. The lens and vitreous humour have entirely disappeared. The choroid is thickened; and the retina, collapsed, forms a cord extending from the entrance of the optic nerve to the surface of an irregular mass of tissue which occupies the former situation of the lens. ix. 2 2659. Detachment of the Retina. This structure has been completely de- tached in the form of a funnel, by effusion between it and the choroid. The choroid itself is opaque, and its pigmentary layer is atrophied in places, the result of long standing inflammation. The eye had been blind for some years. It was not itself the seat of pain, but was removed on account of sympathetic inflammation of the other eye. 2660. Complete detachment of the Retina by extravasation of blood between it and the choroid. The detachment is complete. The surface of the membrane is covered with tawny-coloured material, probably old decolorised blood-clot. The choroid is dotted here and there with small white patches the results of inflammation. No history could be obtained, but the eye, which was much enlarged, had suddenly become very tense and painful. 2661. A similar specimen. The eye had been treated for some months for chronic iritis, when it was accidentally injured by a blow. It was removed soon after on account of severe pain. The patient was a man, aged 39 years. 2662. Partial Detachment of the Retina. This structure has become detached from the choroid coat for three-fourths of its extent; while immediately around the entrance of the optic nerve the two coats are fastened to each other by tough fibrous adhesions. The eye had been blind for some years; it was removed from a woman, aged 45, who had suffered from secondary syphilis. The other eye was much impaired by old iritis and choroiditis. TUMOURS OF THE RETINA. 2663. Glioma of the Retina. The globe is completely filled with a soft white spongy-looking growth which contains many gritty particles—the results of calcareous degeneration. The posterior part of the globe is surrounded by a similar formation which, however, has suffered no appreciable degeneration. No trace of the natural structures within the eye remains. Under the micro- scope the tumour was found to consist almost entirely of nucleated cells, of uniform size, without inter-cellular stroma, but with many new blood-vessels ramifying amongst them. The small earthy particles consist of carbonate of lime. From a child, aged 2\. The growth had been observed for seven months before its removal. Presented by B. J. Vernon, Esq. 2664. The Eye and Optic Nerve of a child, about 4 years old. The globe of the eye is completely filled with a soft glioma. The lens is pushed forwards into contact with the cornea. The optic nerve is, in its whole length, surrounded by the growth, and at the commissure, a larger mass was imbedded in the base of the brain. ix. 26