101 DISEASES OF JOINTS. and leaf-like processes of a soft fibrous structure : others are firmer and approach to cartilage m their character ; and one is a flattened, nodulated growth of bone covered by a thin membrane. The other structures of the joint appear healthy. U. 34 693. The articular surfaces of a Knee-Joint, showing the changes consequent on Chronic Rheumatoid Arthritis. The synovial membrane, when opened, was of a deep port wine colour. The parts were removed'in resection of the joint from a man, aged 35 years, who had suffered from pain in the knee for three years ; the joint had been swollen for eighteen months. He died from pyremia. A portion of the spine affected with rheumatoid arthritis is preserved in Series V, No. 1085.—See Rahere Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 126. 694. The lower Articular Extremity of a Femur. There is a small patch of fibrous degeneration with erosion of the cartilage covering the internal condyle, and commencing nodular outgrowths spring from the margin of the cartilage of both condyles. The synovial membrane was normal. A portion of the spine was considerably affected with rheumatic disease, and the metatarsophalangeal mints slightly. The patella is preserved in Series VI, No. 1216. 695. Sections of the lower extremity of a Femur. A quantity of cancellous bone lias been formed on the articular aspect of the cartilage. ' The latter, though absent at certain parts, retains, in its chief extent, its natural appearance and position. The new bone seems to have originated in a growth external to the old, to the surface of which, and to the articular cartilage, it has become inseparably connected. The specimen was taken from a subject in the dissecting-room. The joint presented the appearances of rheumatoid arthritis. Presented by T. Smith, Esq. 696. The Bones forming a Knee-Joint. Their surfaces are irregular, and rough, from an abundant formation of compact, new bone. Other portions of bone were scattered amidst the thickened tissues, which surrounded the articulation, and which had amalgamated into a coarse fibrous structure. The changes had been preceded by chronic rheumatic arthritis. ° B 53 (In Case Qc.) 697. The Bones of .the Shoulder, and of both Knee-Joints of an old woman who was brought to the dissecting rooms. Their articular surfaces present the ordinary appearances of chronic rheumatoid arthritis ; and besides the femora are marked by ridges and grooves which run in a longitudinal direction and correspond with similar ones on the wider surface of the patella. Several of the joints were affected by the disease, but none were grooved in this manner. (In Case G-.) 698. Bones of two Knee-Joints from the same person. There has been rheumatic disease m each joint, occasioning a deposit of new bone around the articular surfaces of both the femur and the patella. The patella*, displaced outwards have been adapted to the outer condyles; and their articular cartilages having been completely removed the opposite surfaces of the bones have been absorbed in regular and mutually adapted grooves, and are hardened, polished, and ivory. (In Case G.) B- 47 699. The bones of the Great Toes of an old person, showing the effects of Chronic Rheumatism. The articulated bones exhibit abnormal eversion of the X anges ; those that are separated, the usual changes of structure upon and around the articular surfaces. Many large portions of the articular layer of bone are