DISEASES OF BONES. 82 (In Case G.) portion lying behind and across the inferior one. In the upper portion, m the place of the natural structure of the walls of the femur, there is only a fine net- work of bony plates and fibres, and the osseous tissue of the cancellous portion is formed of fine spongy and porous bone. The same change has taken place, in a less degree, in the lower portion. The diseased portions of bone, as well as the bond of union of the fracture, were filled, as if infiltrated, with tough, grey, cancerous matter. appendix o The patient was a woman 47 years old. Two years before death her breast was removed on account of hard cancer. Sixteen months afterwards, when the disease m the breast had returned and ulcerated, in stepping from a cabriolet, she fractured her femur. The fracture was united in six weeks, but she did not regain the use of the limb. She died eight months after the fracture, with extension of the cancerous disease of the breast. Presented by H. G-. Grayling, Esq. 557. Portion of a Tibia, exhibiting superficial and extensive ulceration of its upper half, with new bone about the borders of the ulceration. A fleshy tumour, originating in the soft parts, completely surrounded this part of the bone. A' 56 (In Case G-.) 558. A Tibia, in which there is a circumscribed oval ulcer which has destroyed the anterior half of its walls, laying open the medullary cavity. There is scarcely any appearance of reparation ; the edges of the ulcer are sharp and uneven, and the adjacent bone is light, but not otherwise unhealthy. I. 59 559. A Fibula and Tibia. The former rough and irregular from deposits of new bone upon its surface. The latter light and porous, compact tissue being absent except at the articular surfaces. It was infiltrated throughout with medullary cancer, which had caused in parts complete absorption of large masses of bone, and, iust below the head, had destroyed the whole thickness of the shaft. ' J a. 161 (In Case G.) 560. A Tibia and Fibula. Ulceration, extending probably from a malignant disease of the integuments, has penetrated the front wall of the tibia, destroyed its medullary tissue, and made small apertures in its posterior wall. A deposit of bone has taken place upon the fibula, and there is ossification of the inter- osseous ligament. A" (In Case G.) 561 Portions of a Tibia and Fibula. Ulceration of the walls of the tibia has penetrated to its medullary cavity. The fibula is enlarged by heavy new bone and the interosseous ligament is extensively ossified. a. 55 (In Case G.) 562. A Tibia and Fibula. A large portion of the shaft of the tibia, in its entire thickness has been removed by malignant ulceration, like that m the last- described'specimen. The inferior portion of the tibia is united to the fibula by bone. The fibula is greatly thickened, and a fracture in the middle of its shaft has firmly united. A- '8 (In Case G.) 563 Portions of a Tibia and Fibula. A large portion of the shaft of each bone has been destroyed by ulceration, in consequence, probably, of some malignant disease; as in No. 549, the margins of the ulcer are abrupt, sharp,^and excavated.