DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 239 XVIII. The kidney to which this renal artery belonged was of full size, and its pelvis con- tained urine. BY PRESSURE OF ENLARGED GLANDS, AND NEW GROWTHS. 1555. The Base of a Heart, with the large vessels, the Trachea, and the Bronchial Glands. The whole of the bronchial glands are converted into one large mass of new growth (probably lympho-sarcoma), of very firm consistence, and a pale pinkish white colour, irregularly mixed with the ordinary black pigment of the bronchial glands. Both the main bronchial tubes pass through this mass ; and they are much compressed. It surrounds and compresses the pulmonary arteries and veins, and the vena cava superior. The arteria innominata and both the vense innominatee are also pressed upon by the upper part of the growth. The vena cava superior is so much compressed that its canal would scarcely admit more than the bristle which is passed through it. At the junction of the venre innominatae, the morbid growth appears to have made its way into the cavity of the vein. Near the junction of the right subclavian and internal jugular veins, beneath the valve, there is a small growth from the interior of the vein, the structure of which appears to resemble that of the large tumour. The patient was a man, 30 years old. The disease was of about six months standing. Its progress was attended by great dyspnoea, and by enlargement of the cutaneous veins of the face, neck, and trunk, especially of those on the right side of the neck and chest. The venous current in them all ran downwards. 1556. Parts of an Abdominal Aorta, and of the Vena Cava Inferior. Both vessels are embedded in a mass of enlarged lymphatic glands. The coats of the aorta are thickened, and its cavity is contracted just above its division into the iliac arteries. The vena cava, to the extent of three inches above the iliac veins, is completely filled by concentric layers of fibrin which are adherent to its inner surface. xiii. 17 Vide Nos. 1497,1520,1548. EMBOLISM AND THEOMBOSIS OE ARTERIES. 1557. Part of the Arteries from the base of a brain. Injection, impelled into the left internal carotid artery, filled all the arteries of the circle of Willis that were removed from the brain, except the left middle cerebral artery. The trunk and principal branches of this artery are contracted and closed upon fibrinous clots, which were detached from the aortic valves, and carried into the artery with the stream of blood. vi. 75 From a woman who died, about two months after the occurrence, of hemiplegia, and nearly four months after delivery. There was extensive softening of the left corpus striatum and other adjacent parts of the brain. The aortic valves were extensively diseased. 1558. A right internal Carotid Artery, with its primary branches. Its canal is occluded by a soft, coloured coagulum, which extends nearly as far as the bifur- cation of the middle cerebral, and terminates in a small trefoil-shaped nodule which projects into the commencement of one of the branches. This is less darkly coloured and more firm than the remainder of the clot. vi. 77 From the body of a man who had extensive disease of the heart, especially of the mitral valve. Two days before his death he was apparently in his usual health ; he suddenly fell, and was brought to the Hospital with all the symptoms of apoplexy, accompanied by left hemiplegia The greater portion of the right hemisphere was soft, and about its centre quite diffluent ■ the walls of the several arteries of the brain were free from disease. • ' 1559. Portions of the internal Carotid and middle Cerebral Arteries laid open showing a fibrinous plug at the point of bifurcation of the latter, occludino- the