401 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. —See Hospital Reports, vol. vii, p. 181; Ophthalmic Ward Boole, Male, vol. i, p. 250. HYDATID IN THE VITREOUS HUMOUR. 2649. The half of an Eye, removed from a man, aged 45, which had been blind for some years, and very painful at intervals. The posterior half of vitreous cavity was occupied by a cyst with a very firm thick wall, the contents of which had undergone suppuration. Floating in the pus was a hydatid. The choroid is in situ; there are no traces of retina or vitreous humour, but the cavity of the globe anterior to the cyst contained flocculent shreddy material, in all probability made up of remains of vitreous and detached retina. The cyst walls are very thick, and when cut were as firm as layers of cartilage. They were composed of firm fibrous tissue. FOREIGN BODIES IN THE GLOBE. 2650. An Eye, containing a gun-cap, removed from a girl who was employed in cartridge making. The foreign body entered the globe at the outer and upper part of the sclero-comeal junction. The cap lies in the midst of broken-down blood- clot and detached retina. The eye was quite blind and intensely painful. The larger wound in the sclerotic was made after the eye was removed. 2651. An Eye, showing a fragment of metal lodged between the retina and choroid, about a quarter of an inch above the optic disc. A white speck on the cornea shows where the foreign body had entered the eye.—See Ophthalmic Ward Booh, Male, vol. iv, p. 68. RETINA. RETINITIS PIGMENTOSA. 2652. An Eye, removed from a middle-aged woman, which had been blind for a long period, and had of late become extremely painful. Before removal there was a large equatorial staphyloma. Around the equator of the fundus is a band of pigmented retina (Retinitis pigmentosa) one-fifth of an inch in breadth. With a lens the pigment appeared to be situated in the substance of the retina in the form of a network of caudate cells. Corresponding to this portion of the retina, the pigmentation of the choroid was disturbed, and appeared as if it were honeycombed. The choroid was closely attached to the retina every- where, without any effusion between them.—See Ophthalmic Ward Boole, Female, vol. iii, pp. 179 and 429. 2653. The posterior half of an Eye, showing general atrophy of the cornea, and deposit of pigment in the retina. From a woman, aged 50 years. The eye had long been blind and was removed on account of pain. DETACHMENT OF THE RETINA. 2654. Section of an Eye, which shows complete detachment of the retina. The lens is shrivelled up and calcareous. A layer of bone is developed between the choroid and retina. 2655. Complete detachment of the Retina from effusion between it and the choroid, the result of an injury four years previously. Removed from a man, aged 45 years. 2656. Complete detachment of the Retina. The retina is contracted into a yellow, opaque, pyramidal-shaped mass, containing the remains of the vitreous humour. The sclerotic is very remarkably thickened. The eye was removed from a child, who had become blind after purulent ophthalmia 2 D