105 DISEASES OF JOINTS. The ulceration is nearly all superficial and uniform, but near the attachment of the capsule are two more deeply ulcerated parts. Beyond the attachment of the capsule, the surfaces of the tubercles and of the shaft, which for half an inch below them was removed in the operation, are covered with a thin layer of new bone. The whole texture of the bone is light and fatty, but in other respects appears healthy. II- 60 725. The Elbow of a girl, aged 20. The Joint was excised for strumous disease ten months previous to the removal of the limb. The operation was performed in a provincial hospital and extreme care seems to have been taken of the limb after its performance. The girl came to the hospital seven months afterwards. The arm was useless, the fore-arm falling when not supported. The fingers were stiff and their motions all but lost. The thumb could be moved with tolerable precision. The sensation of the inner part of the limb was impaired, and the entire limb was colder than its fellow. It was also manifestly smaller, and was just an inch shorter. The parts around the joint seemed sound; the cicatrix was soundly healed, and the limb could be moved in any direction without pain, or any evidence of roughened bone within. After three months' perfect rest on a splint, with great attention to the general health without improvement, the limb was removed. The muscles around the joint were firm, of good colour, and not evidently smaller than in health. The biceps and brachialis anticus were natural, and at their insertion had contracted new adhesions. The triceps was adherent to the lowest remaining portion of the humerus, especially on the outer side, and its tendon could be traced on to the ulna. This muscle, unlike its antagonists, was pale and wasted, with much fat between its fasciculi. The extremities of the bones were surrounded by a tough, firm capsule, most marked anteriorly. The capsule was much strength- ened by a thick fibrous cord extending from the internal condyloid ridge to the coronoid process of the ulna, and the flexor muscles had in part their origin from it. The ulnar nerve could be traced to the internal condyle but no farther, the nerve there blending with tough, matted, fibrous tissue. An inch beyond this point there was an appearance, but not a satisfactory one, of a continuation of the nerve. The capsule, when opened in front and turned back, was found composed of dense fibrous tissue attached to the margins of the divided bones Its surface, in places, was smooth and glistening. There was no fluid of any kind within. The cut surface of the humerus-was covered everywhere with fibrous bands passing into the capsule. This was more apparent behind than in front, The cut surface of the radius was covered with some thin delicate fibres running into the capsule at the margins of the bone. These when re- moved showed the cancellous tissue imperfectly walled in. The surface of the ulna, however, was merely covered with a thin smooth layer, and except at the margins, had no attachment to the capsule. Here the extremity of the bone had been covered with a continuous layer of new bone. There were no bands of fibres which could be traced running from the humerus to the bones of the fore-arm. 726. The excised articular portions of the bones of an Elbow-Joint. Their articular surfaces are all ulcerated, and, in the humerus, the ulceration has extended deeply destroying considerable portions of both its condyles, and of the trochlea between them The ulcerated surfaces are hard, and, in parts smooth as if the ulceration had not been progressive at the time of the excision' bonV 8 mcluded in the j°int are thi% covered with new ii. 61 The patient was a girl about 20 years old The rWn<s« nf ffcn i, a i > was attended with suppuration through fistubus pa Jies Mid P I loUS existcd> an* good use and mobility of the elbow. passages. After the excision she recovered