PATHOLOGICAL MICROSCOPIC SPECIMENS. 559 162b. Sections from similar Tumours connected with both Kidneys of the same Infant. The specimens are preserved in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. For a fuller account of these cases, see a paper by Mr. Eve in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, 1881-2. SARCOMATA. 163. Section of a Tumour from the Axilla, composed of small round cells, resembling lymph-corpuscles, enclosed in a stroma consisting of scattered inter- lacing: bundles of fibrous tissue. From Specimen No. 3296. 164. Section of a Tumour of the Palate, of many years' duration. It consists of round cells, lying on the surface of, or in the spaces between, bands of fibrous tissue, having somewhat the arrangement and appearance of trabecular of can- cellous bone. 165. Section of a rapidly growing Sarcoma of the Lip of a young child. It consists of round elongated and spindle-shaped cells, closely aggregated, or in places separated by a considerable amount of fine filamentous or mucous con- nective tissue. 166. A soft Sarcoma (? lympho-sarcoma) removed from the popliteal space. Under the microscope it shows small, closely-crowded, round cells, lying within alveoli formed by trabecules of homogeneous connective tissue. The cells have the size and appearance of white blood or lymph corpuscles. 167. Section of a recurrent growth from the same case preserved in Specimen No. 3298, and having the same histological characters. 168. Section of a subcutaneous Tumour, composed for the most part of small spindle-cells, intermixed abundantly in places with round-cells. Round-cells are abundant around the vessels, which have no proper walls. In places a transition from round-cells into spindle-cells is observable, and again a trans- formation of spindle-cells into connective tissue. From Specimen No. 3303. ADENOMA. 169. Section of an Adenoma of the Skin. In histological structure it consists of convoluted and branching columns of very small cells. Some of the larger columns contain a central space, filled with granular material, and having the appearance of the lumen of a tubular gland. The granular matter consists of fat, and contains crystals of cholesterine. The tumour may be regarded as an adenoma connected with the sebaceous glands. See an account of the case by Mr. Eve, Transactions of the Pathological Society 1881-2 From Specimen No. 3320. PAPILLOMATA. 170. Section of a pigmented Papilloma removed from the Skin of the side. Under the microscope papilla? are seen projecting from the surface, covered by a thick layer of cuticle; there is a slight ingrowth of epithelium from the deep stratum of the rete Malpighii into the tissue at the base of the growth, which consists almost entirely of small round cells. From Specimen No. 3322. 171. A Papillary Growth from the Skin, consisting of rounded, foliaceous pro- cesses, composed of small round cells, lying in a scanty, homogeneous, connective tissue, and continuous with a small-cell infiltration of the corium. The papilla?