DISEASES OF BONES. 36 268. An extremely thin Occipital Bone, from the body of a very markedly Rickety Child, aged three months, who died of laryngismus. L 34b 269. A Skull-Cap, the bones of which are extremely thin. On the surface of the right parietal bone close to the lambdoid suture there is a small depression, at the bottom of which is a minute opening (craniotabes). From a rickety child, aged 8 months, who was brought into the hospital dead.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. viii, p. 40. 270. The extremities of the Ribs and Costal Cartilages from the left side of a Rickety Child, aged 2|. The ends of the ribs at the junction with the carti- lages present a sudden, bead-like enlargement; the prominence is much greater on the posterior than on the anterior aspect. 271. Section of the First Rib, taken from the same subject as the preceding speci- men. The enlargement is seen to be confined to the rib, the costal cartilage at the junction with that bone retaining nearly its normal size. The bone forming the enlargement is soft. 272. The Skeleton of an adult woman, showing, in a remarkable degree, many of the deformities consequent on Rickets. The dorsal region of the spine is strongly curved to the right side, and the lumbar region to the left; but the curve to the right predominates, so that the right ribs project an inch beyond the great trochanter, the chest thus overhanging the extremities. Together with the lateral curve of the spine, there is malposition of the bodies of the several vertebrae; they are all turned round, so that their front surfaces look outwards in the direction of the lateral curve in which they are included. The right side of the chest is encroached upon by the dorsal curvature of the spine. The angles of the right ribs are very acute, their bodies strongly curved ; the right intercostal spaces are very narrow. The angles of the left ribs are very obtuse, the ribs long and comparatively little curved, but directed down- wards, so that the cartilages of the false ribs are nearly on a level with the crest of the left ilium, and their bodies nearly in contact with the lower dorsal vertebras at the beginning of the second, or left, curvature of the spine. The general position of the chest is thus very oblique ; whab should be its vertical axis is directed from above downwards, from before backwards, and from right to left. The pelvis is light and all its bones are thin. It is obliquely placed, the crest of the left ilium being higher than that of the right, and its ala further back and more concave. The left side of the sacrum being narrower than the right, and the symphysis pubis in the middle line, the left side of the pelvis and of its'upper aperture are consequently less capacious than the right, The rami of the ischia curve outwards, and the lower aperture of the pelvis, though mis- shapen, does not appear unnaturally small. The scapulas and clavicles are slender and well-formed. The humeri are short and proportionately thick; the upper halves of their shafts present each a slight double curvature. The radii and ulnae are also short and slightly curved ; in comparison with the humeri they are slender. The bones of the wrists and hands are well formed. The femora are both curved, and very short; they are of equal length, but the left is slender, while the right is of full thickness. In adaptation to the oblique position of the pelvis (the right acetabulum being nearly an inch lower than the left, and half an inch more forward), the right femur is much more strono-ly curved than the left; and the right is curved outwards, while the left is curved forwards. By this adaptation the obliquities in the upper part of the skeleton are nearly compensated ; so that the knee-joints are at the same level \