DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE 198 apex, but the right ventricle is somewhat more capacious than it usually is and its walls are a little thicker than those of the left ventricle. The mfundibu um of the right ventricle is very narrow above. The pulmonary orifice is less than one-eighth of an inch across. Externally the base of the pulmonary artery is of the normal width. Looking into the artery from above, the orifice of com- munication with the heart is seen to be at the apex of a small bulb, rising from a membranous cone, which occupies the normal position of the pulmonary valves. This bulb is hollow on the ventricular side, and, with the cone, is probably the result of the adhesion of the pulmonary valves to one another. The edge of the orifice is fimbriated, and is thicker than the rest of the mem- brane, and in one-third of its circuit is calcified. There is a communication between the ventricles at the upper and anterior part of the septum ventricu- lorum. The opening has a muscular edge, and is large enough to admit the little finger. The child died of general dropsy. Her lungs were sound Her liver, spleen, and kidneys were engorged, but not diseased.—See St. Bartholomew s Hospital Reports, vol. xi. 1322. The Pulmonary Orifice and commencement of the Pulmonary Artery of a Boy, aged 16 years There is a circumscribed patch of vegetative endarteritis just above the junction of two cusps of the pulmonary valve. The patch is elevated, shelving gradually to the edge: at the summit is a crater-like opening with undermined edges, which leads into a small cavity bounded externally by the external coat of the artery. The disease also affects the two adjacent cusps of the pulmonary valve : the inner portion of the outermost is destroyed; its free edge is thickened, cloudy, and fringed by minute papilla?: the inner halt of the middle cusp is similarly thickened, cloudy, perforated at its lower part, but its attachment is not destroyed. The remainder of the pulmonary artery was healthy, as were also the other valves of the heart. The boy was admitted to the Hospital with what was believed to be phlegmonous erysipelas of the upper arm. Pyemia developed itself, of which he died. The autopsy revealed acute necrosis of the humerus. He had no cardiac symptoms.—See Henry Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 308. 1323. A portion of the Right Ventricle and the commencement of the Pulmonary Artery The cusps of the pulmonary valve are very extensively ulcerated. On one of the cusps a mass of fibrin the size of a hazel nut has been deposited. This, hanging by a narrow neck, and easily moving to and fro in the blood current, must have supplied to some extent the place of the valve. The heart was otherwise healthy. Prom the body of a woman aged 40 years, who died in the Hospital of renal disease and PVfemia No evidence of heart disease was observed during life ; and, from the patient s great weakness for many days before her death, no auscultation of the chest was made. Vide No. 1313. DISEASE OF THE MITRAL VALVES. 1324 Portion of a Heart showing abundant vegetations on the mitral and aortic valves. See No. 1559, Series VIII. Presented by Mr. Grosse. 1325. The left Ventricle of a Heart laid open, showing the anterior flap of the mitral valve. A portion of lymph originally adherent to its edge has separated with two of the tendinous cords to which it remains attached, and which have become twisted. m' 99 1326. The anterior cusp of a mitral valve, thickened by disease of old standing, and displaying large blood-vessels branching in its substance. xn. 76 Presented by Dr. Ormerod.