DISEASES OF BONES. 58 Its surface is nearly covered with growths of bone that radiated into the car- tilage which had formed around it. 35. 95 The patient was a man about 60 years old. The tumour removed with the metatarsal bone was as large as an orange, and appeared to be simply cartilaginous ; but its cartilage was soft and jelly-like. The operation-wound healed ; but in about five months the disease reappeared at the scar, and increased rapidly. A small " cartilaginous cyst, filled with a kind of bloody jelly," formed, also, in the front of the leg, just above the ankle, and was attached to the tendon of the extensor pollicis. The patient recovered from the amputation of the foot. Presented by Dr. Ross. Vide No. 3262, Series L. CALCIFYING- OR OSSIFYING ENCHONDROMATA. 428. Sections of a Femur and an Os Innominatum, from which an Osseous Tumour of large size has arisen, principally from the Femur. It consists throughout of a very hard osseous substance with a compact surface and can- cellous interior. It is divisible into lobes, and its surface is nodulated. There lias been a fracture of the shaft of the femur, a little below the trochanter minor, which has firmly united. This fracture occurred before the growth of the tumour commenced. A much larger part of this tumour consisted principally of cartilaginous substance ; a portion of it is preserved in the following speci- men. A- 133 There is a cast of the limb from which the preceding specimen was taken, No. 6. (In Case Or.) 429. Section of a Tumour consisting of nodules of cartilage connected by fibro- cellular tissue, and having specks of bone dispersed through it. It was connected with the tumour described above. I- H8 430. Masses of Osseous substance with small portions of the bones of the Pelvis upon which they had formed. The osseous substance consists of fine filaments, loosely cohering together ; it formed part of a large tumour, probably an osteo- chondroma, i. 189 431. Sections of a large Tumour, consisting of cartilage with specks and lines of bone interspersed in it. The greater part of it presents a nodular arrangement. 35. 5 432. Portion of a Femur, dried, with the surrounding muscles, among which, and with a slight attachment to the bone, the tumour last described had grown. Some pieces of the tumour, more completely ossified, remain imbedded in the intermuscular tissue. 35. 6 FIBROUS TUMOURS (FIBROMATA). 433. A right superior Maxilla, removed by operation from a girl, aged 26. The interior of the bone is filled by a firm fibrous tumour. Seven years previously a growth was removed from the alveolar process of the same bone. tThe microscopic characters of the growth were those of a fibrous tumour. See Lucas Ward Boole, vol. ii, p. 63. 434. A superior Maxilla, with a large oval tumour, which appears to have originated in its interior, and, in growing, to have disparted and extended its walls in every direction. The tumour, elongated from above downwards, pro- jected remarkably into the orbit, lifting up the orbital plate of the bone. It has a very dense compact texture, and a greyish basis, which is intersected by curved and reticulated shining white lines. Microscopically it consists entirely of well-formed fibrous tissue. I- 2^7