DISEASES OF BONES. 75 which the tumour is, to a great extent, made up. The ventral aspect of the ilium is deeply eroded, and the boue is seen to be infiltrated and soft; towards the anterior part the same appearance is presented by the tumour growing out from its surface. From an aged person, whose liver contained many medullary tumours. 515. A Femur, of which the shaft has been in great part destroyed by ulceration, or by the pressure of a tumour. Around the ulcerated part the bone is rough and porous. Masses of bone, composed of fine osseous fibres, originally con- nected with the femur, have separated in maceration. Soft matter was mixed with these, and formed a large tumour around the femur, the remaining part of which is preserved in the next preparation. L 26 516. Section, including the outer surface, of the Tumour last referred to. It consists for the most part of dense fibrous tissue, in which are mingled some fine bony fibres. At its centre the substance was broken down and formed a large irregular cavity. ^7 There is a cast of the limb from which the two preceding specimens were taken—No. 13. * * ***** TUMOURS IN GREAT PART CALCIFIED OR OSSSIFIED—OSTEOID TUMOURS (probably Sarcomata). 517. A Femur, from the whole circumference of which a Tumour of a very large size has arisen. It extends from the condyles to near the upper end of the bone. The small portions of the femur remaining above and below the tumour are healthy. The tumour consists of bone, of a light texture and grey colour, in thin lamellae and very fine fibres, groups or masses of which, being arranged in nearly parallel lines, give the surface of the tumour a fibrous aspect. The tumour, probably, is an osteo-sarcoma, and was covered by some softer sub- stance. -*< a. 132 (In Case E.) 518. An Osteoid Tumour of the Tibia and Fibula, probably an ossifying sar- coma, i. 314 (In Case E.) 519. A longitudinal section of an Osteoid Tumour, involving the lower two- thirds of the left Femur. It was removed from a seaman, aged 45 }-ears, in whom it had existed for five years. During the last six months previous to amputation it had rapidly increased. When the integuments, which were healthy, were reflected from its surface, the muscles investing the tumour were found pale and softened, wasted and degenerated, and here and there in their substance small circumscribed portions of a firm growth appeared. It was difficult with the naked eye to define the limits of the growth; it seemed to pass gradually into the adjacent muscles. The surface of the tumour was of a pale buff colour, firm, and could be cut with a knife, but a few lines below this it passed into compact bone. The section displays the continuity of the tumour with the femur. The case is fully described in Mr. Lawrence's Lectures on Surgery, 1862. 520. The other half of the same Tumour, which has been macerated. 521. Section of a Femur with the osseous part of a Tumour occupying the shaft of the bone. The tumour measured thirty-six inches in circum-