PERICARDIUM AND OF THE HEART. 195 unaffected. Two of the cusps of the aortic valve are almost destroyed and their remains are covered by irregular vegetations. The third cusp is entire, but abundant vegetations spring from its cardiac surface. Vide also the following specimen. THICKENING, CONTRACTION, AND ADHESION OF THE VALVES. 1303. An Aortic Valve thickened, rough, and irregular. Two of the cusps are adherent by their adjacent borders. The third is perforated by an ulcer, the edges of which are ragged, and everted towards the ventricle. There is some thickening of the adjacent wall of the aorta. These changes were preceded by rheumatism. XII on 1304. A Mitral Valve greatly thickened. Its cusps, united amongst themselves, project into the auriculo-ventricular opening, forming a rigid ring. A narrow chink remains for the passage of the blood, and was probably always patent. _ 36 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1305. Aortic Valves, thickened and opaque. The chief thickening is in the adjacent halves of two valves, whose angles, either congenitally or by later morbid adhesion, are united and drawn down. They thus appear as one valve and present m the place of their two angles a continuous, rounded, concave border The inner coat of the aorta is thickened, opaque-white, and tuber- culated. „0 xii. 78 1306. Aortic Valves, thickened and calcareous : they nearly close the opening irom the ventricle. 41 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. DEPOSITS OF CALCAREOUS MATTER IN THE VALVES. 1307 A Mitral Valve with portions of the Aorta. On a large portion of the mitral valve and on the arch of the aorta there are abundant deposits of earthy matter. The aortic valves, and the portion of the mitral valve adiacent to them, are slightly affected with the same disease. adjacent to 13ZntltI^ aWaUt deP°SitS °f 6arfcliy mattCT in their tiss*e «»d xii. 38 DISEASES OF PARTICULAR VALVES. DISEASE OF THE TRICUSPID VALVES. 1309. Portion of a Heart. Attached to the 'edge of the outer flap of the tricuspid valve there is a growth covered with fibrin extend in a- rW™ i\ a- ™uspid This growth lay £ the auricle, when theTeaiTwas op'ned endm°US ^ From a woman, aged 44 years. A small, firmlv adheronf nl«f ™„ t j • the pulmonary artery of the left lung. In bSh W tW^!?*1* a la^braneh of infarcts.-See Post Mortem Book, vol. vii p 349 g ^ numer°us hemorrhagic 33 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1311. A Heart, showing: contraction of hot!-, + • -j t m. *p£ The aoHic A^^^f £ £ o 2