25 DISEASES OF BONES. 186. A portion of the Lower Jaw of a child, containing two teeth, which separated by exfoliation. I. 72 187. A Sternum, in which there is Necrosis of the central part of the bone ex- tending through its whole thickness. The surfaces of the dead bone are ulcerated : those of the surrounding part of the sternum are covered by new bone. I. 63 188. Part of the upper third of the shaft of a Humerus, which had necrosed, and was removed by operation. i. 301 From a youth of a strumous constitution, who had suffered from rheumatism. The case is fully related in the Hospital Reports, vol. xiii, p. 591. 189. Section of a Femur exhibiting Necrosis of a portion of its walls near the trochanter major. The dead portion is separated, and there is a considerable quantity of new bone around it, In consequence of inflammation extending to the hip-joint, ukvrat ion has taken place in the head and neck of the bone. A portion of the head of the bone remains, but it has been separated at the epiphysial line. I. 132 190. The lower portion of the right Femur and Patella from a man aged 23 years. The bone is much altered in form and structure, from the removal of old, and the formation of much new bone. On its posterior aspect lay obliquely the large fragment of dead bone, which is evidently a portion of the original outer wall of the femur. The patella is firmly anchylosed to the inner condyle. A. 175 Disease had existed for four years when the linib was amputated. (In Case F.) 191. Portion of a Femur in which there has been Necrosis of a part of the shaft. The sequestrum has been removed : the walls around the cavity in which it lay are thick, hard, and heavy, though porous: and the adjacent cancellous tissue is nearly consolidated. Ai 99 (In Case F.) 192. The bones of the Knee-Joint of a young person, in which there is Necrosis of part of the lower extremity of the shaft of the femur, with caries of the cancellous texture extending through the epiphysis to the articular surface. The epiphysis is separated form the diaphysis. B. 25 (In Case F.) 193. A Tibia, of which a large portion of the shaft is Necrosed and nearly separated. There is abundant formation of new bone around the dead bone. 1. 69 194. A Tibia from a young subject, in which there has been Necrosis of nearly the whole Shaft. There are several distinct formations of new bone around the sequestrum. The lower articular surface is destroyed by ulceration. 1. 65 Presented by A. Sicard, Esq. 195. The left Tibia of a boy aged 12 years. A large portion of the upper end of the shaft of the tibia has perished, and is encased by new bone. The fibula was considerably atrophied. (In Case F.) Presented by Mr. Barrow. 196. Section of a portion of a Tibia after compound fracture. The whole thickness of the wall at the extremity of the bone, and a part of its thickness for three inches up the anterior and inner aspect of the shaft, have perished and are separated from the living tissue by a deep groove. The medullary tissue has retained its vitality, and is increased in vascularity. A layer of new bone which in some parts is nearly half an inch thick, has formed on the surface of