268 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE PLEURA, BRONCHIAL TUBES, ETC. 1753. Portion of Lung, with some of the large branches of the Pulmonary Artery laid open, and containing firm, dry, and cylindrical clots of blood, which com- pletely filled their cavities, and had probably been formed several days before death. xiv. 52 From a man, 50 years old, who, while suffering with only slight symptoms of pulmonary disease, died suddenly. The case is related by Sir J. Paget, in the Medico-Chirurgical Trans- actions, vol. xxviii, p. 353. London, 1845. 1754. Sections of the upper lobe of the Lung of a child, consolidated by in- flammation. The surfaces of the sections are minutely granular, of a pale, dirty yellowish-white colour, except in two or three places where there are traces of effused blood, and in those parts in which spots of black matter have been deposited. Some of the branches of the pulmonary artery are blocked up by fibrin. There are some thin deposits of firm lymph upon the surface of the pleura covering the upper section. xiv. 45 1755. Part of the lower lobe of the right Lung of a girl who died with an osteoid Tumour in the pelvis. The chief branch of the pulmonary artery is filled with a hard and partly bone-like substance, similar to that of which the gi'owth in the pelvis was composed. From the trunk, portions of similar but less ossified substance, extend into many branches of the pulmonary artery, filling them, and making them feel like hard cords. Many such branches are shown traversing a large cavity formed by softening and imperfect suppuration in the substance of the lung. Similar, but much less extensive disease existed in the left lung. Xiv. 60 COMPRESSION OF THE PULMONARY ARTERIES AND VEINS. 1756. Bronchial Glands, with the bifurcation of the Trachea and the adjacent parts. The bronchial glands are much enlarged, and tubercular matter is deposited in them. The vena cava superior is flattened, and its calibre much reduced. Both the main branches of the pulmonary artery are also much com- pressed by the enlarged glands. xiv. 16 1757. A child's Heart, with a cluster of Bronchial Glands greatly enlarged, in- durated, infiltrated with tubercular matter, and compressing the trachea and principal branches of the bronchi and the pulmonary arteries and veins. xiv. 57 Vide Series XIII, Nos. 1475, 1476, 1478, 1485, 1555. ANEURISM OF THE BRANCHES OF THE PULMONARY ARTERY. 1758. Lower lobe of a right Lung, showing a small cavity the size of a cherry, which contained a clot of blood. The clot proceeded from a rent in an aneurism of the size of a cherry-stone, seated upon a large branch of the pulmonary artery.—See Post Mortem Booh, vol. iii, Case 218, For other diseases of Pulmonary Artery, vide No. 1316, Series VII, No. 1448, Series VIII. INJURIES OF THE LUNG. 1759. Portion of a Lung, showing an extensive laceration on the posterior sur- face of the inferior lobe. From the same case as that from which the ruptured heart was taken, Series VII, No. 136i. N.B.—Diseases of the Bronchial Lymphatic Glands are shown in Series XXIV.