321 DISPLACEMENTS OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL AND OMENTUM. 2113. Part of the Uterus, with the left Inguinal Canal and other adjacent parts, from a woman on whom an operation was performed for what was supposed to be a strangulated hernia. Below and in front of the inguinal canal, at the upper part of the left labium, a sac, like that of a large tunica vaginalis testis, and having no communication with the abdomen, is laid open. This sac was filled with fluid; and the left ovary and the extremity of the Fallopian tube are fixed to its posterior wall, with portions of the lining membrane of the sac reflected over them. A bristle is passed into the orifice of the Fallopian tube ; the ovary is ill-developed. xvn. 78 The patient was a woman between 30 and 10 years old. A fortnight after her delivery she had peritonitis, and gave such an account of the swelling produced by the sac in her groin, that it was supposed to be a hernia. The operation was performed, and she died three days after- wards. The case may be regarded as one in which the ovary and Fallopian tube passed through the canal of Niick into the labium, and in which the communication between the peritoneal pouch and fche general peritoneal cavity was closed. 2114. The Gall-bladder of a woman, ag-ed 45, admitted into the Hospital with a femoral hernia on the right side. The sac was opened and its contents were returned. She died of peritonitis some clays after. The gall-bladder was found close to the internal abdominal ring, and a decided constriction was visible some little distance above the fundus. A portion of the groove on the inner side was ulcerated. The constriction and ulceration are still visible. The liver did not present the ordinary form; it was elongated from above downwards (see Drawing No. 285) and drawn towards the ring. The post mortem examination afforded no evidence that any portion of intestine or other structure besides the gall-bladder had passed through the femoral ring. xvn. 96 A drawing is preserved, No. 285. 2115. Inguinal Hernia combined with Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis. The hernia is situated behind the enlarged tunica vaginalis, which is laid open anteriorly, and is_flattened by the pressure of the hernia. The hernia is opened posteriorly, and its contents, which are the ctecum and part of the colon, are there shown. The vessels of the spermatic cord are separated; the spermatic artery and the vas deferens pass together along the inner and posterior part of the hernia, and the spermatic veins are at some distance external to them. There is no true hernial sac. XVII ^ Vide No. 2086. OCCASIONAL RESULTS OF TAXIS. RUPTURE OF INTESTINE. 2116. Portion of Small Intestine from the sac of a femoral hernia upon which an operation had been performed a few days before death. A considerable openino- was found m the intestine apparently from laceration of its coats, and its edo-es were drawn together by sutures. Lymph is deposited upon the peritoneal surface of the intestine around the opening; and upon the mucous membrane, it is so abundantly deposited that the opening is completely closed by it. xvn. 73 REDUCTION en masse. 2117 Congenital Hernia, for the reduction of which herniotomy was performed On the front of the preparation there is a sac formed by the continuation of the vaginal process of peritoneum into the scrotum. On the abdominal surface a portion of mtestme and the testicle are seen lying in a sac formed by the unobhterated vaginal process, where it passes through the inguinal canal. It is probable that before the operation a part of the hernial sac had been pushed backwards Y