DISEASES OF BONES. 35 bone, but is too large to be removed through any of the apertures, or cloacae, in the new bone. A. 94 (In Case F.) 262. A Tibia, in which there has been Necrosis of a portion of the wall and cancellous tissue of the upper half of the shaft. The new bone formed around the sequestrum is thick, hard, and very heavy, and there are many apertures leading through it into the cavity in which the sequestrum lies. a. 97 (In Case F.) 263. A Tibia and Fibula. There has been Necrosis of portions of the whole length of the compact layer of the tibia. The remaining portions with the new bone formed on them are thickened, enlarged, and very heavy. There is extensive ossification of the interosseous ligament. a. 98 (In Case F.) For other Specimens, see Nos. 19, 21, 22, 24 to 29, 243, 336, 312, 343. ABSENCE OF FORMATION OF NEW BONE AFTER NECROSIS. 264. A Tibia, from which a portion of the shaft, nearly four inches in length, arid including both the walls and the medullary tube, separated after Necrosis! The remaining portions of the shaft are connected by a thick band of tough ligamentous tissue, attached to their gradually attenuated ends. They are also soft, light, and smooth on their surface, as if extremely atrophied. Ligamentous union of the tibia and astragalus appeared to have existed. The fibula is healthy. L 262 From a girl in whom the disease had long existed. The leg could not be used in walking Ihe absence of any formation of new bone was probably due to destruction of the periosteum Presented by Mr. Charles L. Parker. ARRESTED GROWTH FROM NECROSIS. 265. Two Femora from the same person. There has been Necrosis in the lower part of the shaft of one of these bones. The dead bone has been completelv separated, and new bone is formed around the cavity in which it lav The femur which was thus diseased is shortened to the extent of about four inches and there is a peculiar flattening of the condyles, the consequence, probably of the knee-joint having been immovably fixed in the position of extension. A 1 1 f\ (In Case F.) iIt:ZSjo째L^h "째 d0Ubt t0 neCr째SiS 째f the eXtremi* of ^ diaphysis and For other Specimens of Necrosis in a similar position, see Nos. 67, 68, 69, 70. RICKETS. 266. A Rickety Skull-Cap. The anterior fontanelle remains widely open and the edges of the frontal bone around it are thickened. P (In Case F.) 267 A Skull-Cap from a Rickety Child, aged 1 year and 5 months The anterior fontanelle is very large, and the upper part of the frontalis re is not ited. The parietal eminences are unusually well marked See Post Mortem Book, vol. viii n 158 (In Case F.) D 2