DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 213 lation was maintained; these are situated chiefly at the back of the thigh and close upon the femur. F- 3 (In Case D.) 1412. A Foot, exhibiting enlargement and tortuosity of the tarsal and metatarsal branches of the anterior tibial artery, in consequence of obliteration of its trunk near the ankle-joint. XIII. 76 FAILURE OF THE NORMAL PROCESS OF CLOSURE OF ARTERIES FROM DISEASE. 1413. A Femoral Artery, from a Stump. Its coats are thickened, and earthy matter is abundantly deposited in them. In consequence of the occurrence of hasrnorrhage after the amputation, a second ligature was placed around the artery, about two inches above its extremity. This ligature had separated before death; and a portion of whalebone is passed into the aperture through which it was withdrawn. The cavity of the artery, above and below the situation of this ligature, is filled by partially decolorised blood clot, which extends to a con- siderable distance up the vessel. The cut end of the artery is open. xiii. 40 For other specimens, vide Nos. 1463, 1512, 1543, 1546. RE-LIGATION OF ARTERIES FOR SECONDARY HAEMORRHAGE AFTER LIGATURE IN CONTINUITY. 1414. The Femoral Vessels from the right Scarpa's Triangle, showing the point where the artery was ligatured for a popliteal aneurism, and subsequently, above and below the first ligature, for secondary hemorrhage. The wound had healed on the surface; the two ligatures placed upon the artery for secondary haemor- rhage protruded through two small fistulous tracks. On cutting through the scar a small abscess cavity containing ichorous pus was found lying over the vessels ; through this cavity the ligatures passed. Between the two ligatures the artery is contracted, and its walls are thickened and infiltrated; the intima is soft and friable, and the vessel here contains no clot. In the centre of this portion of the vessel, the point where the first ligature was applied is seen; the artery was here divided when the other ligatures were applied, but has since united. Above the upper ligature the vessel contains a clot about one inch and a quarter long, which diminishes in size towards its upper extremity. The part of the clot immediately above the ligature is pale and adherent to the wall of the vessel; the remainder of the clot is very loosely adherent, friable, and not decolorised. Below the distal ligature there is a small clot about a quarter of an inch long, which is less adherent and more friable; a fine filament extends from its apex some distance along the vessel. The lining of the vein is stained; its canal was patent. A clot partially fills the upper third; it is moderately firmly adherent to the vessel, partially decolorised, and its rounded lower extremity is situated behind the cusp of a valve : a similar though much smaller clot about a quarter of an inch long, extends upwards from the valve next below : at this point a large vein, which is filled by a clot, opens into the femoral vein; the conical end of this clot projects slightly into the lumen of the vessel. No injury appears to have been done to the vein in the passage of the aneurism needle. ° The specimen was taken from a man, aged 48 years, who was admitted to the Hospital with a popliteal aneurism, which had existed seven months. He had been treated in a provincial hospital, where alter the application of pressure to the femoral artery, the aneurism solidified but pulsation returned soon after the discontinuance of the treatment. The aneurism again solidified after the employment of the same treatment, but as before the clot melted away and pulsation returned. The femoral artery was then ligatured, and the aneurism consolidated une month after the operation, secondary hreniorrhage commenced beneath the scar of the wound, which bad closed around the ligature. The wound was laid open, and the vessel again ligatured above and below the first ligature. The patient died of pyaemia a fortnight after this operation. In the first operation a carbo