183 PERICARDIUM, AND OF THE HEART. L. YMPHO-SAE.COM A. 1239. The Contents of a Thorax. The pericardium is infiltrated by a growth, which appears from microscopic examination to be a lympho-sarcoma. At the base of the heart it is over an inch in thickness, but towards the apex gradually becomes thinner. The inner surface is lined by a distinct fibrous membrane, which is rugous and papillated. The growth forms a large pro- jecting mass at the base of the heart, and extends along the pulmonary vessels to the lungs. The arch of the aorta is surrounded and compressed: the vagi are seen entering the growth. The trachea, bronchi, and sesophagus ai*e free. A group of infiltrated and conglomerate mediastinal lymphatic glands is con- nected with the tumour: the cervical glands are also affected. The heart is small, and the visceral layer of pericardium is but slightly thickened. The cavity of the pericardium contained a saneous fluid. The tumour is mode- rately firm, and its section pale and homogeneous; A similar tumour of small size was connected with the xiphoid cartilage. Microscopic Examination.—The growth is composed of small round cells, exactly resembling those in the enlarged lymphatic glands, supported by an abundant matrix of ill-developed con- nective tissue. Fibrous trabecuhe traverse it in various directions. In the enlarged lymphatic glands the distinction between the cortical and medullary portion is lost, and the trabecular have disappeared; a considerable qiiantity of newly formed connective tissue is interspersed among the cell elements. No multi-nuclear cells were seen. From a man, aged 20 years. The first symptoms observed were pain in the chest, sickness after food, ami palpitation. There was general impulse over the praxordiurn when he first came under observation. Five months later he was readmitted. There was then a projection of the left supra-mammary region close to the sternum. He had dyspnoea, subject to exacerba- tion, and laryngeal cough. There was fullness at the root of the neck on both sides. The radial pulses were unequal. The symptoms of intra-thoracic pressure increased, and he died two months later, one year after the onset of symptoms.—See Mark Ward Book, 1879 ; also Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxi, 1881. Microscopic sections are preserved, Nos. 58, 59. ^fc 4^ 4^ *Sf" "WHITE SPOT" ON PERICARDIUM. 1240. Opaque white thickening of a portion of Pericardium. 27 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. DISEASES OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE HEART. HYPERTROPHY. 1241. The Heart of a man aged 62, who had long suffered from disease of the aorta and its valves. The heart weighs 32 ounces, this increase being due to hypertrophy of the left ventricle. xil. 98 Presented by Mr. Edgar Barker. Vide Nos. 1223, 1224, 1229, 1314, 1319; and 3214, Series L. ATROPHY. 1242. A Heart, very much reduced in size, but in which the proportions of its several parts are preserved, and its tissue appears healthy. It weighed 5 ounces and 4 drachms. It measured a little less than four inches across the base, and five inches and a quarter from the base to the apex. xii. 57 From a man 50 years old, of middle stature, who died with carcinoma of the stomach in a state of extreme emaciation. 1243. An exceedingly small Heart, which weighed only 3 ounces and 1 drachm.