78 DISEASES OF BONES. are the semilunar cartilages and the articular surface of the tibia in a sound state, but enlarged. Internally the tumour consists of a mixture of soft medullary substance and bone, disposed in the form of large cysts of various shapes and sizes, some of which were filled by a clear yellow fluid, others by coagulated blood. The walls of the cysts consist of membrane with bony fibres dispersed through it. Between the cysts are considerable spaces, filled by soft and shreddy medullary substance, which extends for a short distance into the interior of the shaft of the tibia, and then terminates with an abruptly ch'cumscribed line. ^5 Erom a woman 30 years old. The disease, beginning after a fall on the knee, had existed two years and a-half, and had gradually increased, without pain. She recovered after amputation of the limb— See an account of the case by Mr. Lawrence, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transac- tions, vol. xvii, p. 35. London, 1832. CYSTIC TUMOURS OF THE MAXILLiE. 535. Sections of a Tumour with the side of the body of the Lower Jaw in which it originated ; removed by operation. Part of the mucous membrane of the mouth, unaltered in structure, is extended over the upper surface of the tumour. The disease originated in the cancellous texture of the jaw. The walls of the bone are expanded into a thin case enclosing the tumour, but, in consequence of the absorption of the bone in some situations, this case is incomplete. The morbid growth consists of granules of a peculiar fatty-looking substance, partitioned by fibro-cellular tissue, and having cysts dispersed through it which contained a glairy fluid. The boundaries of some of the cysts are thin plates of bone. L Microscopic examination of the tumour showed that it consisted of fibrous tissue embedded in which were cylinders and alveoli of elongated, narrow, almost spindle-shaped epithelial cells. The tumour may be regarded as essentially of the same nature as the following. See microscopic sections, No. 51. From a man aged 25. 536. A Cystic Tumour involving the left half of the Lower Jaw and extending slightly beyond the symphysis. The outer and lower surfaces are covered by a thin expanded plate of bone. On the upper and anterior edge of the growth the left incisors, canine, and first bicuspid teeth are crowded together. ^ Large cysts containing turbid brown serous fluid, which were ruptured during the operation, are seen on the upper and outer surface. Part of the inner surface is covered by the buccal mucous membrane, where an elougated ulcerated depression is seen, which was produced by the pressure of the upper teeth. The section shows an agglomeration of cysts of various sizes ; most of them are filled by a red granular material, which was found on microscopical examina- tion to be composed of blood-clot and colloid material; a few contain a cream- like o-lutinous fluid; others were filled by a turbid brown serous fluid. The cyst walls are formed of tough fibrous tissue, containing rarely a plate of bone, and are lined by a shining membrane. A portion of the right side of the symphysis is preserved, in which a cavity is seen—produced by expansion of the compact layers of the bone—filled with a soft, red, solid growth. I. 395 Microscopic Characters.—The solid portion of the tumour was composed of columns of cells and nuclei of the epithelial type, which, when cut transversely, presented the appearance of alveoli; similar small columns branched out from the sides of the larger. The cells in the centre of the columns had, in many places, undergone a colloid change, and by the complete metamorphosis of the cells the cysts were formed. From the buccal mucous membrane cover- ing the tumour, in certain parts club-shaped and branching cylinders extended down from the deep stratum 'of the epithelium, as in the ordinary formation of epithelial cancer. The microscopical examination of the tumour indicates that it is an epithelial cancer extending from the gum into the jaw, and undergoing colloid metamorphosis. It was removed from a lady, aged 45 years, and had been growing for ten years. The tumour did not cause any pain, and did not affect the general health. The submaxillary lymphatic glands were not enlarged. Ten years before the swelling of the jaw commenced,