* DISEASES OF BONES. 61 and seven inches in length; its surface is nearly smooth and is connected with the adjacent tissues by a thin fibro-cellular investment. On its cut surface it presents a, pale, yellowish-white basis, which is intersected by a few thin parti- tions of fibro-cellular tissue, and is besides variously traversed by opaque white fibres. It is throughout firm, compact, elastic, and heavy, and bears a close resemblance to the fibrous tumours of the uterus, which it further resembled in yielding a Large quantity of gelatine and in its microscopic structure. 35. 51 About a year before the removal of this specimen tbe patient, a middle-aged man, had a large (inn tumour removed from beneath the base of the scapula. The wound healed, but shortly afterwards this tumour appeared and grew rapidly. After the second operation another similar humour soon grewj ami t he man died, with tumours attached to the internal surface of the ribs, beneath the seat of the former operations. Presented by E. C. Skey, Esq. 446. Sections of an elongated oval fibrous Tumour, very like the preceding speci- men. The resemblance extended to the microscopic and chemical characters. 35. 53 The tumour was removed from a lady 20 years old. It was situated beneath the trapezius muscle, and was closely attached to the spine of the scapula. It had been growing two years. The patient recovered from the operation. 447. A soft sarcomatous Tumour, surrounding the upper half of the shaft of a Femur. It has a well-defiued capsule. The ossified periosteum may be traced as a thin layer of bone through the middle of the section. In the middle of the upper third the whole thickness of the shaft of the bone has been destroyed by the growth. Microscopical Examination.—The tumour presents the characters of a sarcoma. Trabecular of spindle cells and fibrous tissue form alveoli, which enclose numerous small round cells. The specimen was taken from a boy aged 14 years. Eighteen months before admission to the Hospital, he became subject to occasional pain in the thigh, accompanied by slight swelling, which subsided with the pain. Ten months later pain and swelling of the thigh followed a slight blow on the part. From that time the swelling gradually increased, but was said to vary from time to time. Sudden variations in the patient's temperature occurred, it being some- times as high as 102-6°. These symptoms led some to the opinion that the disease was necrosis. Amputation at the hip-joint was performed and the patient made a good recovery.—See Rahere Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 286. See microscopic sections, No. 21. 448. Section of a Femur and of a Tumour surrounding the lower part of its shaft. The tumour consists of a mixture of medullary substance and a firm tissue like that of a fibrous tumour or fibro-cartilage with spicula of bone dispersed through it. At its posterior part are some thick-walled mem- branous cysts which were filled with coagulated blood. The injection of the limb has displayed minute vessels distributed irregularly through the tumour. The walls of the femur enclosed within the tumour are diseased, softened, and thinned to the extent of about two inches; and in this situation the shaft is broken, and the cancellous tissue is filled by a morbid structure similar to that which surrounds the bone. I. 97 Microscopic Examination.—The tumour consists in great part of spindle cells. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 22 ; and a drawing, a. 5. 449. Section of the tumour last described. x> o,g The patient was 22 yearB old, an opera dancer, and the disease had existed about seven months. The tumour grew rapidly and with much pain. He died shortly after amputation of the limb ; and no other part was found diseased. 450. Section of the lower half of a Femur. An ossified sarcoma springs from the surface of the bone around the lower third of the shaft. The medullary canal is enlarged, especially at the lower part, where a sequestrum of cancellous tissue lies surrounded by granulations. Portions of the tumour were found to consist entirely of small spindle cells.