DISEASES OF BONES. 71 491. Section of a Tibia with a vascular Malignant Growth springing from its eanoellona texture, the internal surface of its posterior wall, and the surround- ing soft parts. 492. The other Section of the Tibia last described, together with the Fibula. The tibia exhibits the destruction of a portion of its shaft, and new bone is thinly deposited upon the surrounding surface of the tibia and fibula. i. 125 493. Section of the lower part of a Tibia and of a Malignant Growth from the integuments, such as probably preceded the destruction of the bone in the preceding specimen. *• 126 A model is preserved, No. 12. 494. Section of a Tibia, the other half of the preceding specimen. The periosteum has been in part separated from the bone for the purpose of showing its altered state, and that the bone is sound. The periosteum is increased in thickness and of a soft flocculent texture ; and the morbid growth, which, as the preceding specimen shows, apparently originated in the skin, is here traced to the periosteum. The principal part of the growth is composed of close-set groups of vascular, leaf-like, and warty granulations bounded by an elevated abrupt margin, beyond which the skin is nearly healthy. I« 127 A model is preserved, No. 11. Ilde also Nos. 535, 536. MEDULLARY CANCER. 495. Section of a Frontal Bone, with numerous lens-shaped Tumours, of various sizes from a line to two inches in diameter, thickly scattered through its sub- stance. They grow from both surfaces, and from the substance of both tables; there were also several in other parts of the skull, and some on the dura mater. The tumours consist of a soft medullary matter, and in many of them delicate osseous fibres, standing vertically on the surface of the skull, are embedded. In the situation of the largest tumoui*, parts of which grow from corresponding portions of both tables of the skull, a similar medullary substance is diffused thi*ough the diploe. i. 248 The microscopic structure of the tumour is that of medullary cancer. It consists of an alveolar stroma of fibrous tissue, enclosing epithelial-like cells, sometimes arranged like an epi- thelial lining around the margin of the alveoli. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 41 ; and a drawing, A. 22. 496. Another Section of the same Frontal Bone, macerated and showing more plainly the osseous portion of one of the tumours, and the altered state of the diploe where the medullary matter was deposited. I. 249 497. Another portion of the same Skull. A. 79 (In Case G.) 498. Section of a Tumour occupying parts of the seventh, eighth, and ninth ribs of the left side. The tumour is composed of a highly vascular medullary sub- stance, in which there are some cysts that were filled with serous fluid, and a few small masses of coagulated blood. The osseous substance of the ribs appeared to be expanded within the tumour, which in several parts presented small points of bono. The cartilage of one of the ribs is completely surrounded by the morbid structure, but is itself unaltered. I. 203 Microscopic Examination.—The tumour presents the characters of a medullary cancer. Microscopic specimens are preserved, No. 42 ; and a drawing, a. 20. 499. Parts of three Ribs, around and within two of which Medullary Cancers