496 GENERAL PATHOLOGY. appeared beneath the scar, which were just like the preceding ones, except that they grew more rapidly. One of them was so fixed to the clavicle, that no operation could be advised. They coalesced, and continued to grow till, at the time of the patient's death, in 1852, twelve months from their first appearance, they made a mass more than a foot in diameter. In the course of their growth, the skin over them ulcerated widely ; portions of them also sloughed away, and sometimes severe haemorrhage ensued. Still, with the exception of being reduced by the bleeding and discharge, the patient's health was not deeply affected; he did not become cachectic ; he had no sign of internal disease ; and he seemed to die through mere exhaustion. In microscopic structure, the tumour .appeared almost wholly composed of elongated, slender, nucleated cells, and nuclei of similar shape. A sketch of some of these, with a further history of the case, is given in Sir J. Paget's " Lectures on Pathology," Third Edition, p. 602. Presented by Dr. Eoss. 3301. Section of part of a Leg, showing a large recnrring fibroid Tumour (spindle-cell Sarcoma), imbedded in the muscles and protruding through the skin. The tumour, irregularly spheroidal, and lobed, is partly intersected by the fascia of the leg; and above, at a part where an operation had been per- formed, appears confused with the muscles. In other parts its boundary is clear. Its protruding and cut surfaces appear soft, broken, grumous, and pale brown ; in the recent state its cut surface was milk-white, and brain-like, except where it was discoloured by effused blood. xxxv. 97 The patient was a man 60 years old. Within the five years preceding the amputation of his leg three tumours were removed from the part from which the tumour here shown proceeded. They all had the general appearance of fibrous tumours ; but microscopic examination of the last of them showed that it was chiefly composed (as, probably, the two preceding also were) of very narrow, elongated, caudate, and oat-shaped nucleated cells. The tumour here shown, though brain-like to the naked eye, had, essentially, the same microscopic structure. It was two and a-half years in progress, and amputation of the limb was made necessary by profuse haemorrhages from its protruding part. The parts, in their recent state, are shown in two drawings, Nos. 562, 563 ; and there is a further history of the case, with sketches of the minute structures of the tuniours, in Sir J. Paget's " Lectures on Pathology," Third Edition, p. 598. 3302. Part of a "fibro-nucleated" Tumour (small spindle-cell Sarcoma), removed with the surrounding integuments from a boy's fore-arm. The tumour is unequally lobed, widely out-spread between the skin and fascia, and intimately adherent to both, though distinct and separable from them. Its section is now opaque-white and brain-like ; but, in the recent state, it was smooth and shining, of stone-grey colour shaded with tints of yellow. Its texture was firm, with no distinct fibrous or other arrangement, but easily breaking and splitting in layers. The skin covering the tumour is very thin, tense, and partly ulcerated; and cord-like, branching processes, extend out- wards from it, like the puckerings of a scar. xxxv. 81 The patient was 10 years old. When he was two years of age, he received a slight wound of the fore-arm. A tumour appeared soon afterwards, increased, and was removed after two years' growth. Before the wound healed, the tumour here shown began to grow ; it increased at first slowly, but afterwards more quickly. In the operation for its removal, it was ncrossfiry to take away much of the fascia of the fore-arm and of the intermuscular septa, to which its base was closely adherent. There was no return of disease for nearly three years after the operation. A drawing (No. 587) shows the appearance of the disease before the operation ; and one of its microscopic structure, which consisted chiefly of nuclei, arranged in overlying rows in a molecular basis, is published in Sir J. Paget's " Lectures on Pathology," Third Edition, p. 607. 3303. A Tumour, with the portion of skin to which it was adherent, removed from the groin of a stout old lady. It is about the size of a hen's egg, of a pale pinkish colour, gelatinous aspect, and firm consistence. The skin covering it is thin, and at one point there is an ulceration about the size of a sixpence : the skin around the ulceration is thinned but not infiltrated. On the outer side of the tumour the skin is infiltrated and raised into a tubercular pro- minence.