245 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF VEINS. EXPERIMENTS ON THE EFFECTS OF FOREIGN BODIES INTRODUCED INTO VEINS. 1587. Four specimens showing certain changes in Veins. The two upper repre- sent (a) an external circumflex vein occupied by a pale, fawn-coloured coagulum, which shows a spiral arrangement of the fibrin which forms it; (b) the femoral vein of a dog, part of which, included between two ligatures, had been punctured during life, the blood which it contained removed, and two small pieces of lead introduced. Twenty-four hours after the operation the vein was examined, and found surrounded by a quantity of lymph, a con- siderable amount of which had entered the vein through the puncture, distend- ing- the vessel as seen iu the preparation. The two lower represent-: (a) Part of the femoral vein of a dog upon which an experiment was performed resembling the preceding, but the upper ligature was shifted so as to cut off the portion of vein in which the bits of lead were included from communication, through the puncture in its wall, with the outer wound. The portion of vein thus isolated is laid open, showing an unaltered condition of its lining membrane twenty-four hours after the operation. Its canal was free from exudation material, and the bits of lead lay in simple contact with the vein wall. (b) Part of the femoral vein of a dog, into which a small piece of lead had been introduced, suspended from a thread, as seen in the preparation. The blood was then allowed to flow through the vessel for forty hours, at the end of which time the lining membrane of the vein retained its natural appearance. xiii. 159 This and the three preceding specimens were prepared by Q-. W. Callender, Esq. THROMBOSIS OF VEINS. 1588. A Vena Cava Inferior, with the Common Iliac Veins, obliterated by deposits of fibrin in their canals. From the contracted state of the iliac veins and of the lower part of the inferior cava, it was inferred that they had been obliterated for a considerable time. XI1I 31^ The body from which they were taken was generally anasarcous, and one foot had mortified. 1589. Thrombosis of the commencement of the Lateral Sinus, of the Strai°-ht Sinus, and of the veins of the Choroid Plexus and Velum Interpositum. There was effusion of blood into both optic thalami. vr> From a girl, aged 20 years. No disease could be detected elsewhere, but she had suffered from chlorosis tor some months before death. 1590. The primary branches of a Portal Vein. One proceeding to the rio-ht lobe of the liver is occupied by a firm decolorised clot, which clings to the adjacent walls, but is not adherent to them. No symptoms existed during life to indicate its presence. The wall of the vein is wrinkled transversely. xiii. 127 1591. Part of a superior Mesenteric Vein, the canal of which is occupied by a decolorised clot; By the side of this a narrow channel existed, and allowed of the passage of fluid blood In the centre of the coagulum is a small cavity, its walls stained of a pmk colour. It contained some clear serum. xm. 131 S^^L^t iST diedfr°m chronicPeritomtis.-See ML Bartholomew's Hospital 1592. Portion of the Ovarian Vein, from a woman in whom there was extensive medullary disease of the uterus and adjacent parts. The vein is dilated and failed by fibrinous coagulum deposited in concentric layers. xiii! 96 1593. The left common Iliac, the external Iliac, part of the Femoral and of the adjacent Veins irregularly distended, and with their canal completely obliterated by firm, more or less decolorised clots, clinging, not adhering, to the inner coat