48 DISEASES OF BONES. 355. Section of the anterior part of a Tibia, in which there are numerous small effusions of blood between the periosteum and bone, and in the superficial layers of the bone. 1.213 From the same limb as Specimen No. 465. The patient was a man 27 years old ; a tumour of the lower extremity of the femur had existed twelve months with obscure symptoms, and made steady progress till the limb was amputated. 356. A Femur, exhibiting a plight enlargement of the lower part of its shaft. The exterior of the bone at this part is smooth and healthy, but in the corre- sponding situation in the interior there is a cavity from which the osseous part of the medullary tissue has been removed. The rest of the cancellous tissue is very delicate and light. A- (In Case F.) 357. A Skull-Cap, presenting a worm-eaten appearance along the course of the blood-vessels on its inner surface. The bone in the recent state was intensely congested. (In Case F.) From a man who died from a cancerous tumour occupying both crura cerebri. TUMOURS OF BONES. OSSEOUS TUMOURS (OSTEOMATA). EXOSTOSES (Circumscribed Osteomata). 358. A large compact exostosis of the Skull, which springs from the lower and back part of the right parietal bone. It is attached by the central portion of its base only. i. 310 Presented by Mr. Ilott. 359. Sections of an Occipital Bone, to the lower portion of which an exostosis, nearly an inch in diameter, is attached by a narrow base. The outer part of the exostosis is smooth and very dense ; within, it is in part cancellous and in part nearly as dense as ivory. Its textures have coalesced with those of the outer table and diploe of the skull. I. 71 360. Section of a Skull, exhibiting a small eburnated exostosis, with a narrow base oTowino- from the outer table of the frontal bone, just above the external angular process. There are also two broad nodules of bone, one on the parietal, the other on the occipital bone. a. 124 (In Case Or.) 361. A Skull-Cap, with a rounded exostosis springing from the outer surface at the anterior inferior angle of the left parietal bone. From a woman, aged 65 years. Tbere was no evidence of constitutional sypbilis.—See Post Mortem Boole, vol. viii, p. 60. (In Case G.) 362. An Exostosis, removed from the mastoid portion of a temporal bone. It is of semi-elliptical shape, measures about two inches and a half by one inch and a half and is nearly an inch in thickness. It was attached by a comparatively narrow crescentic base, which was with great difficulty broken off the skull in the removal of the tumour. It is composed of moderately heavy bone, almost entirely covered in with a thin layer or wall of compact tissue. i. 297