DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE KIDNEYS, 360 HYDRO-NEPHROSIS AND DILATATION OF THE PELVIS. 2373. A Kidney, in which there is enlargement of the pelvis and infundibula, with thickening and superficial ulceration of their mucous membrane. The glandular substance of the organ is nearly absorbed; its surface appears lobed in consequence of the projection of the dilated infundibula. xxvi. 6 2374. A Kidney, exhibiting great enlargement of the ureter, pelvis, and infundi- bula, with absorption of part of its substance. xxvi. 3 2375. A Kidney, reduced to a mere cyst, probably from obstructed ureter. 188 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2376. A Kidney, of which the pelvis and infundibula are dilated into a large sac. The greater part of the proper substance of the gland is absorbed; its remains form a thin covering over a portion of the sac. xxvi. 2 2377. A Kidney, showing extreme dilatation of the pelvis. The history is unknown. SIMPLE CYSTS OP KIDNEY. 2378. Portion of a Kidney, in which there is a large Cyst, with thin mem- branous walls, which contained a serous fluid. Half the cyst is imbedded in the kidney, and half projects from its surface. xxvi. 1 2379. Portion of the Kidney of an old man, from the surface of which there projects a thin-walled membranous cyst, which contained about four ounces of clear yellow fluid like serum. xxvi. 15 CALCIFICATION OF CYST-WALL. 2380. Section of a Kidney, showing a cyst, the wall of which is formed by a layer of calcareous material. INTERSTITIAL NEPHRITIS WITH CYSTS. 2381. A Kidney, on the surface of which there are numerous small cysts contain- ing a thick dark-coloured fluid. The reflection of a portion of the capsule shows that the cysts are situated beneath it. xxvi. 11 CYSTIC DEGENERATION. 2382. An injected specimen of Cystic Degeneration of the Kidney. The kidney is seven and a half inches long, four inches broad, and weighs 21^ ounces. The surface is irregularly lobulated from the projection of cysts of various sizes, in the walls of which numerous minute vessels are seen ramifying. The pelvis is much dilated, and the calices are elongated, and extend nearly to the surface of the organ. The parenchyma is converted into congeries of cysts, of various sizes, from that of a walnut to a pea, enclosed in a matrix of connective tissue, which is extremely vascular. The cysts contained a dirty brown fluid, having the odour of decomposing urine. No trace of the normal tissue of the kidney is visible. An attempt was made to inject the uriniferous tubes from the ureter with prussian blue. Here and there a blue streak shows the existence of a tube, and nearly all of these lie immediately within the wall of a cyst. The injection had nowhere penetrated a cyst. The ureter was well- developed, patent, and not dilated. Microscopic Examination.—In the least altered portions of the kidney, the tubuli uriniferi were found generally dilated and tortuous, and the stages of transition from simple dilatation to the formation of cyst-like cavities could be traced. Normal Malphigian bodies were visible in places, but many were compressed, and under- going degeneration. Nowhere could a glomerulus be traced in transition into a cyst. The interstitial tissue was greatly increased, more in some sections than in others. Microscopic specimens are preserved, No. 94.