DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. X^/^j^l communicating branches. The clot itself is pervious, a bristle being passed along its canal, which, in the recent state, was occupied by fluid blood. It thus formed a perfect tube within the artery. xin. 133 1567. Clot from a Pulmonary Artery, partly blood-coloured, partly of a pale fawn-tint. It exactly filled the canal of the vessels and the pouches behind the cusps, the latter being pressed inward, as shown by the moulding of the pre- paration. They were prevented from meeting by a narrow prolongation of the clot into the infundibulum of the right ventricle. Xin. 137 From a fatal case of phthisis pulmonalis. 1568. A similar preparation. The clot is more contracted than the preceding, so much indeed as to look like a mere film, especially where it is moulded to the interval between the cusps and their corresponding pouches. xin. 139 From a case of pneumonia. In this, as in the two preceding preparations, the clots have prevented the pulmonary valve from acting. No symptoms occurred during life to mark their formation. See also the preparations 1270 aud 1271, in Series VII. 1569. Portion of a Heart. A large clot extends from the commencement to the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery. The lungs from the same case are preserved in Nos. 1751 and 1752, Series XI. 1570. The Superior Mesenteric Artery of a man, aged 29 years, upon whose abdominal aorta long-continued pressure under chloroform was applied for the cure of an aneurism at the bifurcation of the abdominal aorta (see No. 1537). The artery presented a bruised and purple appearance, and was flattened out from its origin for a little more than an inch. The coats of the artery were infiltrated, and the inner presented an appearance as if greatly inflamed. Here and there coagula were firmly adherent, but a central canal still existed. The splenic artery was in this case given off from the superior mesenteric Portions of coagula had passed into the spleen and pancreas. The lower part of the pancreas was disintegrated. The patient died of peritonitis. xin. 180 See Barker Ward Book, vol i, p. 114. 1571. A Femoral Artery and Vein, from a man in whom, in advanced life o-an- grene ot the leg spontaneously arose several months before death, and extended high up the leg. Ihe femoral artery, in its whole extent, is made ri«-id bv the deposit of earthy matter in its coats, and its cavity is filled by a firm solid and partially laminated coagulum. The coats of the femoral vein are thickened • portions of it are filled by firm coagulum. l 101 1571a. Portions of the right and left Popliteal and Posterior Tibial Arteries from an aged woman, in whom gangrene of the left foot and leg spontaneously arose four weeks before death. The canal of the left popliteal ia occupied aboutTs middle by a conical, farm, decolorised clot, adhering closely to the inner wall of the artery. At its inferior extremity the posterior tibial is blocked by a soft pinkish coagulum, which entirely fills its canal for a considerable distance and clings with tenacity to the adjacent walls. A small irregularly-shaped^ phte of firm tissue projects curling upon itself, into the canal of the right Topliteal in colour and general appearance it closely resembles the wall of tL^rterv to which i is firmly connected by its middle and base. Immediately belowand to the left, a portion of the arterial wall is greatly thickened, and presents superiorlya chink, looking as though its inner layer might readily be tted % P T, r °f. ^ P°rtr ab0Ve * The arteries ™* atheromatous —See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xii, p. 93. xm 1?6 1571b Section of a Femur, with the femoral artery and vein attached to it Th, bristles m the cut surface of the femur mark the boundaries of a cavily in the