GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 2 k 2 4<>y MELANOTIC TUMOURS (Tumours containing Pigment). 3314. Sections of two Melanotic Tumours, which were removed from the walls of the abdomen. The lower tumour, consisting almost entirely of a soft black substance, occupied the situation of a nievns, and was removed by operation. The upper one, consisting of a pale brownish medullary substance, spotted with melanotic deposits, grew from the cicatrix formed after the removal of the other. xxxv- 18 The patient was a man, 59 years old. The first tumour seemed to have its origin in a mole, which had undergone no change from birth, till about a year before death. It then enlarged, became dark brown and firm, ulcerated superficially, and discharged foetid ichorous fluid. It was removed, together with several small dark growths whioh formed around it, and the wound healed; but in six weeks the tumour was reproduced from the cicatrix, and other small growths again formed in and beneath the skin around it, and increased in number, till m two months they amounted to at least forty, and extended from one ilium to the other, " like a large buncb of dark coloured grapes." At the same time, other tumours appeared near a mole on the sternum, and on the sides and back of the trunk, the scalp and forehead. At length, gradually increasing dyspnoea and cough came on, and were followed by general dropsy, under which the patient sank within a year from the first increase of the mole. After death, numerous melanotic growths or deposits were found in the heart (a part of which is preserved in Series VII, No. 1288), in some of the bones, in the periosteum, the mesenteric glands, pancreas, liver, kidneys, and lungs. The father of this "patient died with numerous small tumours between the shoulders ; and his children and brothers, as well as his father, had many moles on various parts of their bodies. . . , A further account of the case is given by Dr. Morris, in the Transactions of the Provincial Medical and Surgical Association, vol. iv, p. 437. London, 1836. Presented by Dr. Norris. 3315. Section of a Tumour, which was removed from the back of a young woman. The exterior of the tumour is lobulated, and its margin projects far beyond its base of attachment. Its surface is covered, apparently, by a thin layer of indurated skin. Its interior consists of a moderately firm, and obscurely fibrous substance, incompletely partitioned into small round masses or lobes, and is in some situations of a dark brown, in others of a black colour. At the base of the tumour, the subcutaneous fat presents small isolated portions of melanotic substance ; and many others were dispersed in the cellular tissue for some distance around. The vessels supplying this tumour were large, and bled profusely in the operation. xxxv. 23 The patient was a woman between 20 and 30 years old. The tumour had its origin in a mole or dark nsevus, but had not grown rapidly till shortly before it was removed. About two vears after the operation, she died with melanotic deposits in nearly every organ. The bones in Series I, Nos. 473 to 475 ; the dura mater, Series XXX, No. 2467 ; the portion of liver, Series XXI, No. 2213 ; the ovaries, Series XLI, No. 2928, and the mammary gland, Series XLVIII, No. 3183, were taken from the same body. 3316. Section of a Melanotic Tumour removed fiom a man's chest. The mass, imbedded in the subcutaneous tissue, is of oval shape, measuring from one and a half to three-quarters of an inch in its diameters. It is moderately firm, and lobed; in every part, deep brown shaded with black. In the fat over it are two small separate black spots, but the rest of the adjacent tissues appear healthy. xxxv. 108 The patient was about 60 years old. Eive years before the appearance of this tumour, a mole which he had on his sternum increased considerably, and was removed by ligature. Nine months after its removal, this tumour appeared, and increased gradually, and without pain. It was excised when it seemed likely to ulcerate. Six months afterwards, it was necessary to remove another tumour from near the same part; and after this operation, the patient remained well for at least eighteen months. The specimen is represented in a diagram, No. 360. Presented by George Bullen, Esq.