822 HERNLE OR PROTRUSIONS, AND OTHER into the abdomen, and that during the operation the intestine was forced into this portion of the sac 2118. Inguinal Hernia, for the reduction of which an operation was performed a short time before death. On one side of the preparation there is a portion of the spermatic cord, and, a little above it, is an opening, which, m the operation, was made into the inguinal canal. On the other side of the preparation is the hernial sac, extending downwards into the pelvis, by the side ot the urinary bladder to which it is attached. In the upper part of the sac, is a circular orifice: this was the mouth of the sac, through which the intestine passed from the cavity of the abdomen. The other and larger opening in the sac was made in the examination of the parts after death. xvn- It is probable that the hernial sac which now appears ^.^^S;' had originally been situated in the scrotum, and that m the ^V^^JwavL of the previous* to the operation, both the sac and its contents had been pushedintoJhj carityof the abdomen. The intestine in the sac was found mortified from the, faghtae s of! the stricture which was formed entirely by the peritoneum at the mouth of the sac ; and it will be observea ^hat by tne placemen/of the sac, its mouth had become situated deep m the abdomen, at a great distance from the internal inguinal ring. 2119. Inguinal Hernia, for the reduction of which the operation was performed. The sac, opened from the front, is thickened and inflamed. Between the peri- toneum and the fascia transversalis, immediately above the mouth of the sac, there is a large space formed by the separation of the cellular tissue m the endeavour to "reduce the hernia. A portion of the intestine, which had been strangulated, was pushed from the hernial sac into this space, and remained mit strangulated. IRREDTJCIBILITY FROM ADHESION OF THE CONTENTS TO EACH OTHER, OR TO THE HERNIAL SAC. 2120 Inguinal Hernia, combined with Hydrocele. Several folds of intestine are firmly adherent to each other and to the hernial sac. The enlarged tunica vaginalis testis is situated in front of, and nearly envelopes, the sac of the hernia. Bristles are passed beneath the spermatic vessels, which are placed at some dis- tance from each other behind the tunica vaginalis. xvn. 6J 2121. Inguinal Hernia. A portion of small intestine has become extensively and firmly united to the sac immediately below the external abdominal ring. Ihe surface of the intestine is covered by recent lymph. xvn. in Vide Nos. 2122, 2155. A RING FORMED BY ADHERENT OMENTUM. 2122. Inguinal Hernia. A portion of omentum has become adherent to the inside of the sac, in two situations, so as to form an aperture or ring, through which the intestine was protruded. A portion of glass is passed through the mouth of the sac and the ring formed by the omentum and the wall of the sac. xvn. bo ANATOMY OF PARTICULAR FORMS OF HERNIA. INGUINAL HERNIA. 2123ETShe°Sac of an Inguinal Hernia, presenting an annular contraction Produced by thickening and induration of a narrow portion of the peritoneum, probably corresponding to the neck of the sac. XYn- yy 2124. The Sac of an Inguinal Hernia, slightly thickened and indurated', xvn. 47