GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 502 as a gardener in strewing soot over the ground for several morning3 in succession ; a warty growth then formed, and it increased and ulcerated in the spring of both the two following years while he was similarly employed. After this, though he was no longer in contact with soot, the disease increased till it was removed. After the operation lie completely recovered. The case is related by Sir James Earle, in his edition of Mr. Pott's works. London, 1808, vol. iii, p. 183. 3328. Sections of a Tibia, and of the muscles and integuments covering its anterior part. The lower portion exhibits part of a firm epitheliomatous ulcer, with exuberant granulations and a somewhat elevated, sinuous border, which is situated directly over a united fracture of the tibia. The upper portion, which is a transverse section of the front of the leg, shows that the cancerous disease extends from the skin through the muscles and other deeper tissues to the surface of the bone; all these parts being converted into a dense, semi- transparent substance, with obscure traces of fibres radiating towards the surface. xxxv. 40 The patient was a man, 50 years old. "When four years old, he broke his leg, and a portion of bone separated before the fracture united. The integuments over the fracture remained hard and occasionally painful till five years and a half before the amputation of the limb, when he had a blow on the diseased spot, which was followed by ulceration, and the growth of the morbid structure shown in the preparation. The case is published by Mr. Ormerod, in his Clinical Collections, p. 55. London, 1845. 3329. A large Growth, removed from the scalp of an old woman. It forms an irregularly oval mass, about five inches in its chief diameter, knobbed on its external surface, and consisting of a compact but soft and friable substance, imperfectly lobed, and presenting no appearance of definite texture. Its sur- face is rough, as if the mass were superficially ulcerated : its border overhangs to a considerable distance the integuments through which it has protruded. By its side is a cyst half an inch in diameter filled with soft, grumous, yellowish substance, like the ordinary contents of cutaneous cysts in the scalp, xxxv. 57 The patient was 80 years old. Both she and three of her children had numerous cysts, like wens, in the scalp. Two years and a half before her death one of these cysts, which had not previously appeared different from the rest, inflamed. It was opened, and sebaceous matter was discharged from it. The opening made into it did not heal, but ulcerated, and a small hard lump x'einained under the ulcer for a year, when, after erysipelas of the head, it began to grow and rather quickly increased to that shown in the preparation. Portions of its surface fre- quently sloughed, and occasionally it bled largely. Presented by James Eeid, Esq. HARD OR SCIRRHOUS CANCER. 3330. A Breast in which a hard Cancer is situated in the part of the mammary gland near the axilla. The disease forms a small, nearly globular mass, pre- senting, though less distinctly, the same characters as the preceding specimen. Above the breast, two lymphatic glands are suspended, which were removed from the axilla; they are indurated, and parts of their substance have the appearance of cancer. xxxiv. 15 From a woman 30 years old. SOFT OR MEDULLARY CANCER. 3331. Cancerous Growths, removed, with the adjacent textures, from an axilla. The principal growth filled the hollow of the axilla, and projected over its borders; smaller growths lie near the edges of this larger one. All the growths are raised above the surface of the skin, presenting rounded or lobed surfaces, which in the recent state were florid and very vascular, like those of granula- tions. The bases of most of them are narrowed ; those of the smaller growths are set in the superficial part of the cutis ; those of the larger extend more deeply, and are confused with a cluster of cancerous axillary lymphatic glands. A section of one side of the larger growth shows that it is composed of a soft, loose-textured, pinkish-white substance, which, in the recent state, yielded, upon