DISEASES AND INJURIES INCIDENTAL TO GESTATION AND PARTURITION. 4G3 abdomen there was no abnormal symptom during pregnancy. The extra- uterine foetus was pressed into the cavity of the pelvis during labour, and had to be raised in order to admit of delivery by turning of the intra-uterme foetus, which presented by the head. The patient died from exhaustion forty-five hours after delivery. The case is fully reported in the Medical Times and Gazette, July 18, 1863. FCETATION IN AN UNDEVELOPED UTERINE HORN. 3078. From a case in which death occurred in the third month of gestation. The uterus is bi-cornis ; the left horn which contained the foetus, is dilated into a sac. On one side of this sac is a lacerated opening, through which the foetus escaped into the cavity of the abdomen, and to the edges of which the membranes of the foetus remain attached. The left ovary contains a corpus luteum. The cavity of the right uterine horn is lined by decidua. xxxni. 18 Presented by Dr. Bull. CANCEROUS AND OTHER TUMOURS COMPLICATING PREGNANCY. 3079. A Uterus and Vagina laid open from behind, from a woman, aged 40, who had previously borne ten or twelve children. A large oval tumour is attached by a broad pedicle to the anterior lip of the uterus. The tumour was tolerably firm upon the surface, but towards the centre it was much softer—nearly semi- fluid. In structure it is composed throughout of cells having all the characters of those of cancer. The immediate cause of death was haemorrhage, which had occurred at intervals for three or four months previonsly. In the uterus is a foetus four or five months old. 3080. A multilocular Ovarian Cyst from a woman, aged 39. During the fifth month of her pregnancy it burst spontaneously into the peritoneal cavity, causing intense pain, incessant vomiting, and hiccup. She died ten days after, apparently from collapse rather than peritonitis; scarcely a trace of inflamma- tion was discovered after death. A healthy foetus was removed from the uterus. The woman had previously borne six children. xxxi. 29 Presented by Mr. Nicholson. MORBID PARTURITION. LACERATION OF THE CERVIX UTERI. 3081. A Uterus, the neck of which was torn through two-thirds of its circum- ference, during parturition. xxxil. 47 The child, in this case, was born with hydrocephalus. Its skeleton is in the Museum. Death ensued shortly after the rupture of the uterus. Presented by Dr. Conquest. LACERATION OF THE VAGINA. 3082. A semi-circular laceration is seen passing across the posterior surface of the Vagina, near the cervix uteri. Ca3e of Dr. Jainieson brought before the Obstetrical Society of Edinburgh, 1872. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3083. A Uterus and Vagina. During parturition, the vagina was torn through half its circumference close to the part connected with the uterus. The bodv of the uterus presents many peritoneal sulci. xxxn. 4(3 Presented by Dr. Conquest. 3084. A Uterus and Vagina, with a portion of the Rectum. Six weeks before death the upper part of the vagina was torn during parturition. A lonw curved rent through the posterior wall of the vagina and a portion of the neck