DISEASES OF BONES. 73 In minute structure the tumour consists of delicate alveoli of connective tissue enclosing epitlieliul-liko cells. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 44 ; and a drawing, A. 31, 506. The Lower part of the Aorta and the Iliac Arteries of the same patient The left common iliac artery was tied three days before death. Its internal and middle coats are cut through by the ligature; above the line of section is a por- tion of a large clot which had formed above the ligature. !• 241 The patient was a man 42 years old. The tumour in the arm had existed for ten years, and had not grown for three years. The tumour of the ilium had been growing rather quickly for about a year. It presented a distinct, deep, heavy pulsation, a bruit, and many other signs liko those of an aneurism ; the common iliac artery was therefore tied. The patient died on the third day after the operation with suppuration in the track of the wound. The case is recorded by Mr. Stanley in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions,vol. xxviii, p. 317. London, 1845- , ■ a ■ T7TT A portion of the heart, containing a small medullary tumour, is preserved in Series Vll, No. 1287. 507. The upper half of a Femur, around which there is a thin, flat, nodulated, medullary growth, of a soft, spongy, and obscurely-fibrous texture. The shaft at the part enclosed by the diseased structure was broken by a slight force. Its texture at this part appears soft, and is perforated by many small apertures. L 230 Microscopic Examination.—The tumour consists of a fibrous stroma, forming alveoli, which are crowded with epithelial-like cells. From a woman 43 years old, whose right breast had been removed with a medullary tumour in it, three months before death. See microscopic sections, No. 45 ; and a drawing, A. 18. 508. Section of a Tibia, and of a firm white medullary cancer, which covers a large portion of the anterior surface, and nearly encompasses the rest of the shaft, and from which portions, extending through the front wall, are con- tinuous with a similar growth occupying the medullary tube, and protruding through the posterior wall. I. 279 From a man 43 years old, who had been for five years subject to severe hsematuria. This growth was observed, gradually increasing, for about a year previous to his death. A growth of similar substance from the left brim of the pelvis was connected with the side of the bladder, and had abraded its inner surface. The case is detailed in the Proceedings of the Pathological Society, Session 1847-8, p. 324. Microscopic Examination.—The tumour consists of a fibrous stroma having an alveolar arrangement: the alveoli contain large cells. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 47 ; and a drawing, A. 16. Presented by William Kingdon, Esq. SCIRRHOUS CANCER. 509. Part of the Skull of a man who died with Scirrhous Cancer of the breast. The place of the l ight ala of the sphenoid bone, and of small portions of the bones adjacent to it, is occupied by hard, greyish, cancerous substance, which nearly retains the shape of the bone that it has involved. Similar cancerous substance covers, with a thin granulated layer, parts of both surfaces of the dura mater, the tissue of which also appears similarly diseased. I. 292 The patient was a spare, sallow man, 45 years old. The cancer of the breast had existed for five and a half years before his death, and numerous cancerous tubercles lay in the skin around it. Paralysis of the right facial nerve existed during the last six months of his life, and in the last three months was attended with protrusion of the eye, and chemosis of the conjunctiva. 510. Sections of the Humerus of a man who died with Scirrhous Cancer of the mammary gland. Large portions of the medullary cavity are filled with a compact, very firm, greyish substance, like that of the common forms of scirrhous cancer. Where this substance is, the medulla and the cancellous hone of the interior of the humerus have completely disappeai'ed. The walls of the bone are also, in some parts, thinned, and in some destroyed and penetrated