DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE INTESTINES. 309 The patient was a lady, 62 years old, who had perfectly good health till within live days of her death, when she was attacked hy vomiting and constipation. These were relieved on the third day, but shortly recurred, and she died tympanitic with complete intestinal obstruction. The calculus here shown had passed through a large ulcerated opening from the gall bladder into the ileum. The other large calculus which lies loose in the bottle had passed through another ulcerated aperture into the colon, and was found in the csecuin. Presented by John Havers, Esq. For Specimens of Obstruction from Simple or Malignant Strictures, vide Nos. 1987, 2017, 2018, 2020 to 2025, 2029, 2048 to 2050, 2066, 2067, 2073, 2079. Obstruction from Internal Strangulation, vide Series XX, Nos. 2164 to 2177. Obstruction from Displacements, Sfc, vide Hernice and Intussusceptions, Series XX. IMPACTION OF CONCRETION'S, AND FOREIGN BODIES, AND OTHER AFFECTIONS OF THE APPENDIX VERMIFORMIS. 2031. An Appendix Vermiformis, in which a mass of hardened faeces is lodged. xvi. 30 From a child who died with acute peritonitis. 2032. Appendix Vermiformis, from a man, aged 43 years, who died of abscess in the brain and liver. The point of a pin may be seen protruding from it into the caecum, while the head is imbedded in a mass of hardened faeces. There was no sign of ulceration, or of either recent or old peritonitis. 2033. A Caecum ; the sharp point of a nail protrudes through an ulcerated aperture in the vermiform appendix. The head of the nail lies in the termina- tion of the cul-de-sac, which is filled by some firm material. There was a small collection of pus around the protruding nail, but no peritonitis. Three or four small abscesses were found in the brain; one in the left centrum ovale being as large as a hazel nut. There were also abscesses in the bases of the lungs and purulent infarcts in the liver. From a woman who was admitted to the Hospital with moderate pyrexia, and complaining of pain in the left side and headache ; the two latter symptoms had existed three weeks. A fortnight later vomiting and delirium came on, shortly followed by unconsciousness with tetanic convul- sions, and death.—See Elizabeth Ward Book, vol. ii, p. 144. 2034. A Caecum, with its Appendix. The appendix is dilated and its walls are thickened. In the middle of its course there are two large ulcerated apertures penetrating its coats ; which apertures, it is presumed, were the consequence of the lodgment of a gall-stone in its cavity. xvi. 65 From a man 38 years old. The gall-stone became lodged in the appendix nine davs before death : it produced peritonitis, and complete obstruction of the intestines for four davs before death. " Presented by H. Bateman, Esq. 2035. A Caecum and Vermiform Appendix. The terminal portion of the appendix is perforated and sloughy; it was surrounded by a collection of mis 1 he communication with the caecum is occluded by inflammation. The impacted concretion, if one existed, had escaped into the abscess cavity. .hmXafter7, &^}! 7 w' ™* £ ^ H°Spital with aCute P^tonitis, dying shoitly after. Six days before he was se.zed with sudden pain in the abdomen he vomi frequently, and the bowels were constipated.-See Mark Ward Book, vol. viii, p 282! mited 2036. A dilated Appendix Vermiformis, which has no communication with the Caecum. It was filled with gelatinous colloid-like material. From a gentleman, who died from disseminated sarcoma.