54 DISEASES OF BONES. liave been cut: a displaced capsule, which contained the cusps of two teeth, is seen on the posterior surface of the bone. Microscopic examination showed that the tumour consisted of hyaline cartilage. Eemoved from an infant aged 9 months. When 3 months old his mother noticed an enlargement of the gum ; three months later the cheek began to swell and continued to increase in size. The child made a good recovery from the operation.—See Stanley Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 433. 408. Section of a Tumour, thirteen pounds in weight, which grew in front of the lumbar vertebras of a soldier 37 years old. It was loosely connected with the vertebras by its investing fibro-cellular tissue. It surrounded the aorta, and the inferior cava and iliac veins ; the veins were compressed and filled by coagula. It was of an oval form, lobulated, sixteen inches long, and about six inches wide. Half the tumour was composed of a soft, pulpy, and floceulent medullary substance of a brownish colour. A small portion of this is pre- served, and hangs in shreds; the other half of the tumour, including the greater part of that which is preserved, consisted of nodules of cartilage of various forms—rounded, oval, elongated, or quite irregular—and from one- fourth to three-fourths of an inch in diameter. These are invested and held together by layers of fibro-cellular tissue. They have both the obvious and the microscopic characters of foetal cartilage. In the centres of some of the nodules of cartilage there are small portions of cancellous bone, like the points of ossification of the foetal skeleton; the centres of others are rather softened. The limit between the cartilaginous and the medullary part of the tumour is well marked; and although they are in close contact, there is no appearance of any conditions intermediate between them, as if the one had degenerated into the other. In a portion of the tumour, not shown in this specimen, the softening process had reduced many of the nodules of the cartilage into a yellow viscid fluid, which was retained, as in thick- walled cysts, in the flbro-cellular investments of the softened nodules, and was in some instances mixed with blood. Presented by James Johnson, Esq. 409. Portion of a Spine, with a Tumour which, originating in the heads of the ribs, has extended into the cavity of the chest, and, through the foramina giving passage to the nerves into the vertebral canal, where it compresses the spinal cord within the arches of the fourth and fifth dorsal vertebras. That part of the tumour which projects into the chest is covered by a thick membrane, which apparently originated in the pleura costalis separated from the ribs ; a portion of this membrane has been removed. The tumour, which is probably composed of softened cartilage, consists of a gelatinous substance, in some parts approaching to the firmness of cartilage, and in others very much softer, and resembling boiled sago. l- H5 The patient was a man 30 years old. The compression of the spinal cord produced complete paralysis of the pelvic organs and the lower extremities. 410. Section of a Tumour which occupied the whole arm and shoulder. The section consists of a slice taken out of the middle of the tumour. A portion of the shaft of the humerus is destroyed; the head and upper part of the bone are imbedded in the tumour, which is also closely attached to the lower border of the scapula. The inferior angle of the scapula projects through an ulcerated aperture in the skin, in a state of necrosis. The greater part of the tumour is formed of a very firm, close-textured, and obscurely fibrous substance, glisten- ing on its cut surface, and in general appearance resembling fibro-cartilage. Portions of it are much softer, broken-down, and mixed with blood effused into them. In many of the firmer parts small deposits of bone have taken place. The