DISEASES AND INJURIES TO THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 255 From a midfe-ageel man, who died of phthisis. He had no laryngeal symptoms, and there w as no ulceration of the larynx. EPITHELIOMA 1652. A Larynx'laid open from behind, showing an epithelioma which is attached to the right arytamo-epiglottidean fold. xxv. 66 Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 67. 1653. A Pharynx, with the Tongue, Larynx, and other parts. A tumour, pro- bably an epithelioma, of almost globular form, and nearly an inch m diameter, is situated on the right arytamo-epiglottidean fold. The surrounding mucous membrane is deeply wrinkled; the fluid by which it was rendered cedematous having escaped. XX1V- 17 The patient, a man about 40 years old, had for some months suffered with pain in the throat, and difficulty of breathing and deglutition. He stated that these were always relieved by the discharge of matter, but the only source from which these discharges appeared to have taken place was a small abscess in the left tonsil. A sudden attack of extreme dyspnoea coming on, tracheotomy was performed, but the patient shortly after died. A drawing is preserved, No. 128. 1654. A Larynx, at the upper part of which there is a large and very firm tumour, probably an epithelioma. The tumour is attached by a broad base to the left upper border of the thyroid cartilage and to the adjacent tissue; it occupies nearly all the space between the epiglottis and arytenoid cartilages, leaving only a narrow chink at the right side for the admission of air to the glottis. Its surface is irregular and slightly ulcerated. xxv. 28 From a man 60 years old. The disease had been in progress for at least fifteen years ; but its effects were not severe till shortly before his death. 1655. The Larynx, Pharynx, and base of the Tongue shown from behind. The base of the tongue, the tonsils, and portions of the larynx are involved in an epithelial growth. xxv. 35 Removed from a man in whom there was, likewise, an epithelioma of the scrotum. 1656. A Larynx, with some of the contiguous lymphatic glands. There is a flat spongy growth, probably an epithelioma, on the mucous membrane covering the epiglottis, and the superior orifice of the larynx. A part of this growth has ulcerated. A deposit of soft substance nearly fills the enlarged lymphatic glands. xxv. 22 MALIGNANT GROWTHS SECONDARILY IMPLICATING, OR COMPRESSING THE LARYNX. 1657. A Larynx with the adjacent structures. A ragged cavity of considerable size is seen by the side of the left thyroid cartilage. It communicated by a sloughing sinus with an ulcer of the integuments, and with the pharynx by a small aperture above the thyroid cartilage. The superior cornu of the os hyoides, rough and bare, projects into the cavity. The base of the ulcer of the integuments was hard, ragged, and made up of white curdy matter, containing well-marked cancer cells. The left lobe of the thyroid body was infiltrated by a similar growth, but the isthmus and right lobe were normal. The mucous membrane of the pharynx was natural. From a man, aged 57 years, who died in the Hospital. He had suffered for nine months from spasm of the glottis, frequent dyspnoea, and swelhng of the parts in front and to the loft, side of the neck. The induration was succeeded by a foul indolent ulcer. Death took place rather suddenly after a severe attack of dyspnoea. 1658. A Larynx and the adjacent structures. A hard cancerous tumour involves the tissues on the left side of the larynx and infiltrates the wall of the pharynx. The wall of the larynx is bulged inwards by the pressure of the tumour and the glottis is thereby considerably narrowed.