259 PLEURA, BRONCHIAL TUBES, AND LUNGS. soft, yellow, granular material. There is no thickening of the bronchial wall. xiv. 74 From an adult male, of a strumous habit, who sank on the ninth day of an attack of pneu- monia. Twenty-four hours before death tubular breathing was heard over the entire right side of the thorax. Neither the history, nor the condition of the bronchi, referred to any previous disease of the lungs. 1680. Portion of a Child's Lung, in which many bronchial tubes are dilated. The first portions of the larger tubes are of their natural size, but as they pro- ceed in the substance of the lung, they become gradually wider; till near the surface of the lung they gradually contract, and appear to end in closed extremities. The walls of the dilated portions are thin, smooth, and not marked, as the others are, by the longitudinal elastic fibres projecting on their surface : the adjacent pulmonary tissue appears healthy. xiv. 54s Vide also the following specimen. FOREIGN BODIES IN THE BRONCHI. 1681. The lower part of a right Lung. Its pleural surface is closely invested with long-formed false membrane. Its vesicular structure is solidified, void of air, firm and greyish. On part of its cut surface are seen the orifices of numerous enlarged and sacculated bronchial tubes, the mucous linings of which are thick and fibrous. These tubes were filled with thick, greenish-brown material. They are the branches of the inferior divisions of the main branch of the lower lobe of the lung'; and in this, the trunk, from which they proceed, there is lodged a brass tip or ferrule of an umbrella-stick, which, though movable, completely fills the tube, and, being closed at its lower end, com- pletely prevented the transmission of air. xiv. 62 This foreign body was accidentally lodged in the bronchial tube three years before the patient, a boy 12 years old, was admitted into the Hospital. He was supposed to have swallowed it, for it produced no difficulty of breathing, either at the time or for many days afterwards. From the time of the accident, however, his health began to fail, and he was supposed to have phthisis; he forgot, or ceased to tell, that a foreign body might have passed into his lung. Thus he was brought to the Hospital, in a dying state, two days before his death. In addition to the changes here shown, there was a large gangrenous cavity in the apex of the right lung; the lower lobe of the left lung was solid, with pneumonia and with gangrenous softening, and in its upper lobe were numerous reddish spots with yellowish centres, as if from inflammation proceeding to suppuration. The case is fully related in the St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. vi. p. 187. 1681a. The Lungs of a Child. The trachea and bronchi are laid open alono- the anterior surface. The right bronchus immediately beyond the branch to the upper lobe of the lung contains a heart-shaped seed, which did not completely fill the tube. The lowest lobe of the right lung is completely collapsed, also the lower half of the middle lobe. The upper lobe contains air. The trachea and both bronchi contained much purulent fluid. The specimen was taken from a female child, aged 2 years, who without evident cause was seized with a severe fit of coughing, accompanied by distressing dyspncea and cyanosis, which lasted fifteen to twenty minutes. On the following day, the breathing was whistling, and the third day she had a second attack of dyspnoea and coughing, when she was brought to the Hospital. On admission she was extremely livid, and the respiratory distress was ereat Physical examination showed that the lower part of the right lung was collapsed and the heart, in consequence, drawn across to the right side. Tracheotomy was performed, and a pan- of curved forceps were passed down the right bronchus without success.-See account *£L BaHh0U>mem'S H°S*ital ***** -1. xvi, 1880, also P J EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION. FORMATION OE FALSE MEMBRANE. 1682. A False Membrane, that formed in the trachea and bronchi during an attack of diphtheria. The patient, a girl aged 10 years, had been ill for some davs when tracheotomy was performed and the membrane was drawn out through s 2