DISPLACEMENTS OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL AND OMENTUM. 329 2166. Inguinal Hernia. A portion of small intestine was found just behind the external inguinal ring strangulated by a band of adhesion extending from the peritoneum near the ring to the mesentery. The testicle is situated within the upper opening of the inguinal canal: it is smaller than natural, and on section presents a granular appearance. The epididymis is not connected with the body of the testicle, but proceeds at once from its upper part, forming a short mass of fine convoluted tube behind the peritoneum, and then becoming gradually larger and less tortuous, assumes the ordinary characters of the vas deferens. XYIL * Both this and Specimen No. 2131, are described by Mr. Lawrence, in his Treatise on Ruptures. London, 1824, 8vo., p. 24-3. BY DIVERTICULA OR FIBROUS BANDS, THE REMAINS OF THE OM- PHALO-MESAEAIC DUCT. 2167. Portion of Small Intestine, from which a Diverticulum is continued. The extremity of the diverticulum is adherent to the contiguous part of the mesentery, so as to form a circular aperture, or ring. Through this aperture a portion of intestine twelve inches long passed and became strangulated. xvii. 53 The patient, a lad subject to constipation, died four days after the commencement of the signs of strangulation of the intestine. Presented by E. P. Pridham, Esq. 2168. A Diverticulum arising from the Ileum at about fifteen inches from its termination in the cascum, and attached at its blind extremity by a ligamentous cord to the umbilicus. The portion of ileum between the origin of this appendage and the caacum had become twisted and entangled about it, causing strangulation, which terminated fatally in thirty-six hours. xvii. 92 From a boy aged 12 years.—See Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal for October, 1830. 2169. A Diverticulum from the Ileum, continued as a fibrous cord, the end of which is attached to a portion of mesentery close to the intestine. A loop of intestine has been rotated on itself, so that the diverticulum and fibrous cord are tightly twisted around it. xvii. 94 2170. Portion of small Intestine, the canal of which is completely constricted by a band of fibrous tissue, passing from the abdominal wall. xvi. 107 2171. The lower portion of an Ileum and the Csecum. A large ragged perfora- tion of the small intestine is seen. The intestine at this point was constricted ; above the constriction it is dilated and its wall thickened ; below it is slightly contracted. Immediately below the perforation, a thin fibrous cord is attached to the free border of the intestine by which the strangulation was produced. Its other attachment was not noted during the operation; but the position and appearance of the cord indicate that it is probably the remains of the omphalo- mesaraic duct. The surface of the intestine in the neighbourhood of the perforation is covered by lymph. From a boy, aged 14 years, who was seized one night with violent pain in the abdomen rigors, and vomiting. He was admitted to the Hospital with symptoms of strangulation' no indication of the cause of which was evident on examination. Laparotomy was per- formed on the seventh day after the onset of the symptoms. The lower portion of the ileum was found constricted by a band, on division of which the perforation was discovered The margins of the perforation were attached to the wound. The patient did not rally from the operation. It was ascertained that he had had a severe attack of abdominal pain with con stipation six months before.—See Mattheto Ward Book, 1879. 2172. Portion of the Ileum showing a constriction just below the attachment of