97 DISEASES OP JOINTS. 667. A Scapula, showing' the effects of Rheumatoid Arthritis. The glenoid cavity is entirely destroyed, and in its place there is a rough semilunar surface of bone, upon which the humerus moved: the upper horn is bifid, and formed by the acromial and coracoid processes ; the lower by a process of bone about one and a-half inches long, projecting from the inferior margin of the scapula. The extremity of the acromial process is separated from its base. i. 850 Eemoved from the body of a man who was brought to the hospital for dissection. No history of the case could be obtained. The opposite shoulder and both hip-joints were also affected in a similar manner, but to a much less degree. (I ii Case G.) 668. A Shoulder-Joint, exhibiting partial absorption of the head of the humerus and glenoid cavity, with flattening and a great increase of the width of their articular surfaces. The surfaces of the scapula and humerus, which were brought into contact by the absorption, are exactly adapted to each other, and are covered by a substance like cartilage, so as to form a new joint. It is pro- bable that these changes were the result of rheumatoid arthritis. in. 1 669. The bones of both the Shoulder-Joints of an adult. In each joint there has been ulceration, or such absorption as occurs in chronic rheumatism, of the articular surfaces of the head of the humerus and the glenoid cavity. The heads of the humeri are flattened and enlarged by growths of bone around their borders; and the glenoid cavities, enlarged in a corresponding degree, and deepened, extend backwards and inwards to the bases of the spines of the scapulae. The articular surfaces thus enlarged are mutually adapted, and are hardened, perforated, and in some parts polished and ivory-like. The changes of structure are symmetrical, except in that the articular surfaces of the ri^ht shoulder-joint are more extensively polished than those of the left. b 32 (In Case G.) 670. A Scapula and the upper part of a Humerus diseased in the same manner as No. 706. The borders of the acromion are thickened and beset by nodules of new bone. A small portion of its inferior surface, indurated and polished was adapted to a similar surface on the upper part of the head and the great tuberosity of the humerus. Around the head of the humerus and on its tuberosities there are deposits of bone similar to those on the borders of the acromion. ^ (In Case G.) B" 671f" £ H?,merus'. T^VH RadiuS and Ulna- In sequence of chronic disease of the elbow-joint, the fore arm appears to have been for a long time nearly fixed m a position of extreme flexion, with the hand in extreme pronation The articular surface of the humerus is much deformed ; the internal condvle is reduced m size and pointed ; the trochlear cavity is nearly obliterated ; the greater part of the articular cartilage was removed ; the external condyle has a part of its surface hardened and polished; and nodules of new bone have been deposited around the borders of the articular surface. The outei division of the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna is hard, polished, and superficially grooved: the inner division is soft and rough as if it had been deeply ukerated The lesser sigmoid cavi y is obliterated; and just below its position thSis a large and deep pit m which the tubercle of the radius rests. The head of the radius is directed backwards from the shaft. The articular surface has lost its cartilage and new bone is deposited around a great part of it bo^er The anterior border of the head of the radius, which rested on the front of the external condyle of the humerus, has formed a wide and slightly col surface, which is covered by hard polished bone like fW ™ n conc.ave t^rndykitse,t Theloweronds°ft,,e^*»^*s£szz b. 53