INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 122 842. Section of a Patella which has been fractured into three pieces. The portions are united by a thick ligamentous substance, and are all enlarged; the upper fragment alone is as large, and has the same form as an ordinary adult patella : the enlargement is probably due to ossification of the uniting medium. in. 29 843. Two Patellse from the same person. Both bones have been fractured trans- versely. The fractured portions of each, having been separated to a distance of five inches from each other, are connected only by a thin fibrous membrane. The fragments are enlarged, although unequally. in. 28 844. Section of a Tibia, in which are two fractures which occurred twelve weeks before death ; one extends across its shaft, the other through the cancellous texture of its inferior extremity. The fractured surfaces are united only by fibrous tissue. m- 67 Vide Nos. 904, 905, 971. FRACTURES WHICH HAVE REMAINED LONG UNUNITED. 845. A Shoulder-Joint, exhibiting an ununited fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus, with obliteration of the axillary artery from the pressure of the lower portion of the bone against it. The fracture extends transversely through the humerus, immediately below its head and tuberosities ; and it communicates with the cavity of the shoulder-joint. A small detached piece of the bone is connected with the synovial membrane. The synovial membrane is thickened, and its internal surface rough. A bristle is passed beneath the tendon of the biceps. The axillary artery is obliterated, to the extent of half an inch, in the situation at which the end of the lower portion of the humerus pressed against it. Immediately above the obliterated part, the subscapular artery arises, of its usual size. It is still pervious. Close to the subscapular is the posterior circumflex artery, obliterated in the first half inch from its origin, and then pervious by means of the collateral circulation. About two inches above the origin of the subscapular, a large branch arises from the axillary artery; this branch, extending down the inside of the arm, was continued into one of the arteries of the fore-arm, and formed a principal channel for transmitting blood from the upper to the lower part of the limb. III. 74 From a man aged 75. The injury occurred ten years before death. 846. A Humerus, fractured transversely through the junction of its middle and lower thirds, six months before death. No union has taken place between the fractured portions : their ends overlap nearly an inch, and are enclosed in a cavity smoothly walled in by the indurated tissues around them. The end of the upper fragment is rounded and made conical by the absorption of its borders, and is covered with granulations, which in the recent state were soft, vascular, and very florid ; the end of the lower fragment is in part adherent to the adjacent tissues, and in part, similarly covered with granulations. in. 122 The patient was 60 years old. No pus existed in the cavity enclosing the ends of the bone, nor did any opening lead into it from without. The parts are represented in the Drawing, No. 52. 847. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting an intra-capsular fracture of its neck, which occurred about five months before death. The periosteal and synovial cover- ings are torn upon only the posterior side of the neck of the bone ; upon its anterior side they are entire. The portion of the neck which remains con- nected with the head of the femur is not absorbed, but the margins are rounded. 1IL 40