PERICARDIUM, AND OF THE HEART. 185 its coats arc thickened and made rigid with opaque yellow deposits, and its cavity is filled with a tirni coagulum. It seems to be obliterated at the margin of the degenerated part, while the rest of the coronary arteries, though having many thickened and rigid patches, are pervious. XII. 85 The patient was a fat woman, 52 years old. " She appears never to have complained of breathlessness or palpitation, and never was known to faint. But latterly she spoke of a sense of oppression at the chest." The impulse and sounds of the heart were feeble. Three years before death she had a paralytic seizure, from which she slowly and partially recovered. Her death was instantaneous. A further account of the case is in the Reports of the Pathological Society of London, vol. iii, p. 264, by Dr. Baly, by whom the specimen was presented. 1250. The Heart of an old woman, aged 82 years. She was a lunatic, and had been in Bethlehem Hospital forty-two years. She died suddenly while sitting quietly. At the lower and front part of the left ventricle, close to the septum, is a rent through the wall, the muscular tissue of which is in an advanced state of fatty degeneration. 1251. Rupture of the wall of the left ventricle of a Heai-t, the muscular tissue of which has undergone fatty degeneration. The valves contain calcareous matter. The rupture proved instantly fatal. The pericardial cavity was filled with a blood-clot, weighing one pound. Presented by J. S. D. Danes, Esq. 1252. Heart of a Demented Woman, aged 70 years, who died suddenly, after a paroxysm of rage. On the under surface of the left ventricle is a jagged rent, about three-quarters of an inch in length, through which blood escaped so as to till the sac of the pericardium. The muscular tissue is degenerated. The brain was much atrophied. More than three pints of fluid escaped from the arachnoid cavity, the lateral ventricles, and spinal canal. All the arteries of the brain (especially those at the base) were very atheromatous. Presented by Dr. Claye Shaw. 1253. Rupture of the left ventricle of a Heart near its apex. 26 From a powerful, healthy man, of temperate habits, a watchmaker, aged 4fi. The rupture occurred at a moment when he was greatly excited in consequence of the misconduct of a rela- tive. The symptoms commenced whilst he was walking, and consisted of a sensation of weight and tightness on the left side of the chest, with dyspnoea. The second day he walked three or four miles with difficulty, and worked as usual, the distress continuing. The third day he walked two miles with great difficulty, his symptoms being much aggravated. The fourth day he walked half a mile, stopping seven or eight times, and described the sensation as that of a cord tightly drawn round his chest. On the fifth day he complained of a dull pain in the region of the heart, which in a few hours became severe, and extended, especially along the upper extremities. 5 He died in great agony, both of body and mind, a few hours later.—Journal of Morbid Anatomy, 1828, p. 14. From the collection of J. R. Farrc, Esq., M.D. 1254. Heart of an Adult. The cavity of the right auricle is larger than natural and its membranous lining is thick and opaque. The tricuspid valve is thickened. The cavity of the left ventricle is larger than natural. Its muscular substance is considerably thickened, and its lining is opaque. The aortic valves are a little thickened, and there is soft matter deposited beneath the linino- of the aorta just above the valves. The coronary arteries are thickened, and there is earthy matter deposited between their coats. A rupture of the septum between the ventricles has taken place near its union with the posterior wall of the heart, by which a free communication is formed between the ventricles ' On the side of the left ventricle the opening is about two inches in leno-th and of