184 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE From the body of a woman, aged 46, who died in the Hospital of cancer of the pylorus. The duration of her illness was two years. Emaciation was extreme, and the other viscera were remarkably small. FATTY INFILTRATION. 1244. A Heart, exhibiting great enlargement of the cavity of the left ventricle, with thickening of its walls. There is abundant formation of fat on the whole exterior of the heart; on the right ventricle it forms a layer half an inch in thickness. The coronary arteries are not ossified. The aortic and mitral valves are large and thin, but appear of healthy texture. xn. 12 The patient, a man 25 years old, attributed the origin of his disease to a fit of passion twelve months before his death. He shortly after observed unnaturally strong pulsations in all his large arteries and at his heart. These continued till his death, all the arteries appear- ing to be dilated. He had also great dyspnoea, aggravated in paroxysms, during which he was in the habit of taking large quantities of digitalis. 1245. Large Heart taken from a man, who, although but five feet seven or eight inches in height, weighed some mouths before death 30 stone 6 lbs. He was w-ell known for his gluttony. The heart deprived of blood weighed 2 lbs. 6j ozs. The aortic and pulmonary valves are competent. The liver weighed 6 lbs. 10^ ozs. It was engorged with dark blood and fatty. The kidneys weighed together 211 ozs. Presented by Dr. Thomas Oliver, of Preston. FATTY DEGENERATION. 1246. Heart of a man, who died under the influence of chloroform. The ventri- cular walls, especially on the right side of the heart, appear to be in a state of advanced fatty degeneration. For other specimens, see 1247 to 1252, 1256, and 1370. RUPTURE OF THE HEART FROM DISEASE. 1247. A Left Ventricle ruptured. The opening is a mere fissure through the muscular substance, at the junction of the anterior wall with the septum, near the middle of the heart. The wall of the ventricle around the opening is not thinner than in other situations : but the muscular substance is softer than is natural, and of a brown colour. There are numerous small deposits of fatty matter beneath the lining of the aorta, and of the left ventricle ; and the quan- tity of fat on the exterior of the heart is greater than is natural. xit . 22 1248. A Left Ventricle ruptured about mid-distance between its base and apex, and near the junction of its anterior wall with the septum. The aperture is of considerable extent; and around it the wall of the ventricle is of its natural thickness. The muscular substance appears soft, and of a dull brown colour. Earthy matter is deposited in the coats of the aorta. XII. 27 1249. Portion of a Heart in which rupture of the left ventricle has occurred. The heart is of natural size, with abundant fat at its base and over the coronary arteries that branch on its surface. In the middle of the prominent rounded pa-rt of the left ventricle is a rent, about an inch in length, extending obliquely downwards from the middle of the ventricle towards its apex. Below this, and in a line towards the apex, are two much smaller rents, which, like the larger, have irregular edges. They all extend into the cavity of the ventricle, and are seated in what appeared shortly after death as " a space of about three square inches, in which the colour of the muscular substance was a mottled dull yellow, or drab and pink; and no fascicular or fibrous structure could be discovered." In this space the muscular tissue was in a state of advanced fatty degeneration, while that of the rest of the heart was normal, or nearly so. The principal branch of the left coronary artery, leading to this part of the heart, is enlarged;