SERIES XL. of the bladder is thickened, and the ureters are dilated. xxx. 19 DISEASES AND INJURES OF THE URETHKA AND PENIS. STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. LINEAR AND ANNULAR STRICTURES. 2857. A Penis with a tight annular stricture one inch from the orifice of the urethra. From a man, who died with acute suppurative inflammation of the kidneys. He was at the time attending the Hospital for a stricture, which only admitted of the passage of a catgut bougie. .... •, A drawing of the kidneys is preserved No. 316.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. vm, p. 84, and John Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 26. 2858. Section of a Urethra, in which there is a stricture in its spongy portion, about two inches anterior to the bulb.- The stricture is annular, occupying only a small portion of the length of the urethra: the induration and contrac- tion of the canal being marked by an opaque-white line. The urethra behind the stricture is dilated. xxx- 3 2859. A lateral section of a Bladder and Urethra. There is an annular stricture of the urethra immediately before the bulb. The bladder is large, and its muscular coat is hypertrophied ; the fasciculi extending from the ureters to the prostate gland are remarkably developed. xxx. 9 2860. A Penis, exhibiting a stricture in the spongy portion of the urethra, about four inches from the external orifice. Half an inch of the length of the canal is almost obliterated; and the tissues around this part are thickened, indurated, and contracted. In the rest of its extent the urethra appears healthy, xxx. 1 2861. A Penis exhibiting two annular strictures of the urethra, one situated about two inches from the external orifice, the other just anterior to the bulb. The mucous membrane is generally thickened, and is in many parts superficially ulcerated. xxx- 23 2862. The Cast of an Urethra in which there was a slight annular stricture immediately behind the bulb. xxx. 14 Vide No. 2881. STRICTURE BY THICKENING AND CONTRACTION OF A CONSIDERABLE PORTION OF THE CANAL. 2863 A Bladder and Urethra. There is a stricture in the urethra about an inch anterior to the bulb. The mucous membrane has been separated from the corpus spongiosum in the situation of the stricture, to show the thickening and condensation which its tissue has undergone at this part. The muscular coat