219 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 1449. Subclavian and Axillary Arteries. The coats of the vessel, especially the inner, are thickened; and its cavity is generally dilated. xm. 57 For other specimens, vide Nos. 1418, 1120, 1421, 1425, 1429, 1477. ANEURISM. VARIETIES OF FUSIFORM ANEURISM. 1450. A greatly dilated ascending Aorta. Its inner coat is variously thickened, and its surface roughened or nodulated from the presence of an extensive atheromatous deposit. In addition to the general dilatation, many smaller sacculi give an irregular appearance to the walls. Over some of the rough points seen on the lining membrane, fibrin had been deposited, and projected, shred-like, into the sac ; the fibres were easily detached, merely clinging to the surface. The valve has been closed by sutures to indicate how it still sufficed to occlude the aortic orifice in spite of its dilatation, the cusps being stretched and extended to compensate for that change.—See Hospital Reports, vol. xvi, P- 45. XIII. 130 1451. A Fusiform Aneurismal Dilatation of the whole length of the ascending por- tion of the Arch of the Aorta. The remainder of the aorta is smaller than normal, and there is a well-marked constriction at the point where the ductus arteriosus joins the aorta. The internal inanmiary arteries were very large. 1452. A Fusiform Aneurism of the left Axillary Artery for which a ligature, seen in the preparation, was applied to the third part of the subclavian&artery six days before death. The patient was a labourer, aged 54 years, who had noticed the tumour below the clavicle for three months. There was a large aneurism in the chest connected with the thoracic aorta, filled with firm laminated fibrin. Death occurred from pleuro-pneumonia of the left side. 1453. A Popliteal Artery, of which the whole circumference, in about an inch and a half of its length, is dilated into an aneurismal sac. The coats of the artery both above and below, as well as at the seat of the aneurismal dilatation are thickened. xm' 4? Vide Nos. 1484, 1485, 1511, 1513, 1547. SACCULATED ANEURISM. 1454. Section of the Arch of an Aorta, with an Aneurism arising from its upper part. The cavity of the sac is nearly filled by laminated coagulum The internal membrane of the artery is thickened. The trachea is attached to the sac, and its internal membrane is elevated by the pressure of the sac against it lne sac is also closely adherent to the arteria innominata, and to the rio-fit carotid and subclavian arteries. XIII. 11 1455. Portion of the Aneurismal Sac last described, removed to show the con centric laminated arrangement of the coagulum contained in it. xm. 12 1456. Sections of an Abdominal Aorta, with a small Aneurism. The sac is situated between the coats of the artery ; its cavity extends on every side of the small mouth by which it opens through the inner coat, and projects very little externally, and is completely filled by laminated coagulum Above and below the aneurism earthy matter is deposited in the coats of the arterv and its walls are generally thickened and indurated. Szl Jo XIII. oo 1457. Section of the lower part of an Abdominal Aorta, with an Aneurism formed