38 DISEASES OF BONES. 278. A slightly deformed female Pelvis. (In Case E.) 279. A Pelvis and Femora, exhibiting extreme Rickety Deformity, from a woman on whom Caesarian section was performed. The anteroposterior diameter at the brim of the pelvis is only If inches. The femora are curved laterally, the greatest curvature being just below the trochanters ; the necks are short and hori- zontal, and, owing to the shallowness, and displacement from pressure inwards of the acetabula, the heads of the femora project prominently forwards. The condyles are distorted and flattened out. A- 164 The case is fully described in the Lancet, February 6, 1847. (In Case E.) 280. A Female Pelvis, the cavity of which is altered in its form and direction, so that the symphysis pubis is directly opposite the left sacro-iliac symphysis. The change is presumed to be the effect of Rickets. There was a slight lateral curve of the spine. A- (In Case E.) 281. Sections of the Femur and Tibia of a Rickety Child. The bones which had become curved through a want of their natural hardness, have recovered their osseous texture and their inflexibility, but the curvature remains. In the femur, the walls of the bone in the middle and along the interior curve of the shaft have acquired a greater thickness than elsewhere. The tibia in the situation of the chief curvature is solid, and flattened from side to side. L 35 282. Section (cut with a knife) of the Femur of a Rickety Child, curved in con- sequence of the want of its natural hardness. The shaft, instead of the normal division into solid walls and medullary cavity, consists throughout of carti- laginous and gelatinous substances intermixed and disposed in cells. It is observable, that a greater quantity of the cartilaginous substance exists in the middle of the shaft and towards the interior curve than at any other part. The articular ends of the bone are in a natural state. I- 34 The two preceding specimens are described by Mr. Stanley in tbe Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. vii, p. 404, 1816. 283. A Femur, Tibia, and Fibula, from a child. They are all considerably curved from rickets, but have regained their natural firmness. There is a slight indentation with a circular thickening of bone, on the anterior surface of the lower extremity of the femur, which marks the situation of what appears to have been a united fracture. A- 138 (In Case F.) 284. A Femur, Tibia, and Fibula, from an aduit. They are considerably curved, but their texture is as hard and heavy as in health. The femur is curved in an arch with its convexity directed forwards ; the middle of its shaft is flattened at the sides, and the linea aspera in the same part is very prominent, its edge formino- a straight line representing the chord of the arc formed by the most curved part of the shaft. The tibia and fibula are curved inwards, and in the middle of their shafts present an antero-posterior flattening greater than the lateral flattening of the shaft of the femur. a. 139 (In Case F.) 285. Portion of the Femur of an adult, very strongly curved in its upper third. The curved part of the shaft is so flattened that its anterior surface forms a narrow prominent ridge. A short sharp process of bone has grown from the