204 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE the upper portion there are numerous Miliary Tubercles, arranged for the most part in groups; in the lower there are several small irregular cavities, surrounded by similar tubercles and by tubercular matter diffusely infiltrated in the substance of the lung. xiv. 12 1719. Portion of injected Lung, with groups of Miliary Tubercles and masses of tubercular infiltration. None of the injection has penetrated the tubercles. The lung was injected from the pulmonary artery. xiv. 28 Presented by Richard Owen, Esq. 1720. Sections of a Lung, with large irregular masses of Tubercular matter infiltrated in its tissue. xiv. 20 1721. Section of a Lung, the whole substance of which is made solid by the infiltration of Tubercular Matter. The dark spots and lines visible in the yellow tubercular matter are produced by the small remains of the substance of the lung. There are also numerous small irregular cavities in the lung, the result of softening of the tubercular matter and ulceration. The boundaries of these cavities are formed by the tubercle softened and broken, and by the remains of the proper substance of the lung. xiv. 33 1722. Section of a Lung, the tissue of which is solid, heavy, and of a pale yellowish white colour, from uniform infiltration of Tubercular Matter. Its pleural surface is covered by a thin layer of tough, false membrane, with small tubercles scattered in it. xiv. 47 1723. Portion of a Lung, exhibiting an extensive destruction of its substance consequent on the formation and progress of Tubercle. The walls of the large cavity which occupies the place of more than half the lung, are composed of the pulmonary tissue, indurated and infiltrated with tubercular matter; and are rendered very irregular by the projection of numerous large branches of the blood-vessels, which have not been involved in the destruction of the adjacent parts. The pleura is thickened, and has soft false membrane on its surface. xiv. 34 1724. Portion of Lung, in which there are several large Tubercular Cavities, with infiltration and induration of the pulmonary tissue remaining between them. Most of the cavities are lined by false membrane in thin and imperfect layers. The pleura is thickened, and false membrane is abundantly formed upon its surface. xiv. 35 Presented by Dr. Conquest. 1725. Portion of the apex of the right Lung. It contains a portion of a Tuber- cular Cavity, sprouting into which is a small malignant growth, probably secondary to malignant disease of the right supra-renal capsule. Although the vomica itself was evidently of old date, the lungs contained throughout large quantities of miliary tubercle recently deposited, the appearances having been such as to lead to the belief that the diseases had been progressing simul- taneously. XIV- '8 From a man, aged 53 years. 1726. Section of the upper part of a Lung, in which a soft material, resembling mortar and mixed with particles of calcareous substance, has been deposited in small cavities, which, it may be presumed, were previously occupied by tuber- cular matter. Sections of two cavities are seen filled with this substance ; two others have been partially emptied. The surrounding pulmonary tissue is condensed, dry, and of a dark grey colour, from the quantity of black matter deposited in it. The surface of the lung is deeply wrinkled and contracted over the remains of the cavities ; and several bands of false membrane are attached to it at the same part. xiv. 41