188 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE aperture. Around the aperture the wall of the ventricle is very thin, and appears to have been dilated into a kind of aneurismal sac before the rup- ture took place. The aperture is nearly filled by a round firm clot of blood. 1267. Heart from a Man aged 60, who died of Emphysema. In the undefended space there is a hemispherical pouch about the size of half a marble. Its walls are thin and translucent, and crossed by bands of tissue arranged like the musculi pectinati of the right auricle. The aneurism is not perforated.—bee St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, 1876, vol. vii, p. 241. 1268. A Heart, showing an aneurismal dilatation at the unprotected spot of the interventricular septum. 1269. Aneurism of the Right Auricle, from a woman aged 51 years, who died of emphysema pulmonum. At the back of the right auricle, just above the division between the auricle and ventricle, is a rounded prominence the size of half a marble, thin walled, lined with fibrin, and communicating with the cavity of the auricle.—See Transactions of the Pathological bociety, vol. xxix, 1878. FIBRINOUS MASSES, AND BLOOD-CLOTS IN THE CARDIAC CAVITIES. 1270. The anterior wall of a Right Auricle and Ventricle, with part of a firm decolorised coagulum clinging to its inner surface. This coagulum is moulded to the inequalities of the muscular bands, as shown m the upper portion of the preparation, where it is turned away from the cardiac wall. It also extends uninterruptedly behind the cusps of the anriculo-ventricular valve. On one side the right, is a layer of coloured coagulum, part of a clot which commenced in the vena? cavae, extended thence into the cavities of the heart, and terminated at the apex of the right ventricle. XIL y 1271 Part of the Posterior Wall of the same Cavities, and the commencement of the'pulmonary artery. The remainder of the clot which occupied the right cavities is here seen. Above, it commences as a tape-like portion which occupied the upper and left side of the canal of the superior vena cava the remainder bein- filled by the coloured coagulum already described The decolorised clot extends behind the valve cusps, and is continued through the mf unclibuluni into the pulmonary artery. The latter portion is superficially streaked, above ind below with thin layers of coloured coagula, but these have no connection with those derived from the venae cavae. On the other hand, they can be traced upwards into the canal of the pulmonary artery. xn. 9o From a woman who died with colloid cancer of the ovaries. Toward the last she suffered from compression of the lungs and considerable dyspnoea, but no symptoms arose to indicate, before death, the formation of clots in the cardiac cavities. 1272 Part of a Heart, with a small portion of lymph attached to the inside of the'rio-ht auricle and, apparently, organized. A section has been made of the lvmph to show that it is so closely united to the lining membrane of the auricle that the boundary between them cannot be discerned. xn. 1273 A Heart with the cavities laid open. The whole of the right ventricle is nccuoiedbv a'firm white almost glistening clot entangled amongst the chorda? Wineae It extends upwards to the right auricle, which it completely fills, and also into the branches of the pulmonary artery entirely blocking them up The left ventricle also contains a smaller but equally white clot, which extends into +L auricle iust over the mitral valves. This is blood-stained on one side where Se cu^renVpassed over it. The walls of the heart are thin and in a state of fatty degeneration.