91 DISEASES OF JOINTS. head of the tibia, this part of the bone being altered in structure, and deeply ulcerated. The tibia is drawn under the femur, and the joint fixed in the halt- bent, position. (In Case Or.) 618 The bones of a Knee-Joint. The articular ends are deeply ulcerated, and a large perforation is seen between the condyles of the femur. The bones are light and spongy : slight bony anchylosis had taken place between them. b. 2,b (In Case G.) 619. A Femur, exhibiting superficial ulceration of the articular surfaces, and there was a very deep ulceration of the head of the tibia. The internal condyle of the femur appears to be elongated, and the bone is light and brittle. b. 28 (In Case G.) 620. The lower end of a Femur, exhibiting ulceration of its wall, just above the condyles, with thickening of the surrounding bone, and superficial ulceration of the articular surface. B- 27 (In Case G.) Vide also Nos. 625, 626. From Eheuraatic Disease, vide No. 664 et seq. For Specimens of Caries of the Intervertebral Articulations, see Series V, Nos. 1063, 1071, and 1072, Sfc. SEPARATION OF EPIPHYSES. 621. Portion of a Femur from a young subject. Disease commencing in the hip- joint, has in its progress occasioned a separation of the head of the femur at the epiphysial line. There is also ulceration of a part of the surface of the head and neck of the bone. > II. 35 622. The Head of a Femur, which became separated from the neck of the bone at the epiphysial line in the course of an attack of acute pyaemia. It was found lying loose in the cavity of an abscess which had formed at the hip-joint, and it was removed at the time the abscess was opened. n. 81 The patient, a boy 17 years old, recovered. Presented by Mr. Ehind. 623. Portion of a child's Femur, of which the greater part of the head has been destroyed by ulceration. A portion of the head remains, but it is completely detached and is ulcerated on each of its surfaces. n. 16 624. The Upper Extremity of a Femur, with the ossific nucleus of the epiphysis of the head of the bone, which had been separated, and which was found after death in a large abscess, the result of an injury. n. 89 From a female child, aged 10 months. For other Specimens of Separation of Epiphyses, see 63, 63a, 67, 68,69, 71,124,125,137, and 189. DISPLACEMENT OR DISLOCATION OF THE BONES FROM DISEASE OF JOINTS. 625. A Hip-Joint, from an adult, exhibiting the effects of inflammation. The cartilage covering the head of the femur is completely destroyed by ulceration, and the exposed surface of bone is covered by lymph. The ligamentum teres, also, is destroyed. The head of the femur is dislocated from the acetabulum, and is drawn upwards and backwards upon the dorsum of the ilium, where it rests surrounded by a capsule formed, probably, in part by the diseased old capsule, and in part by the surrounding tissues thickened and consolidated. ii. 17 626. The Hip-Joint of a young subject. Displacement of the femur has followed absorption of the margin of the acetabulum, and its head lies upon the ischium,