41 DISEASES OF BONES. (In Case F.) A. 13 298. Skeleton of a Negro of unusually high stature, who for many years suffered from constitutional syphilis. All the long bones of the extremities are thickened ami irregular, either generally or in parts, especially the right tibia ami fibula, the latter being covered with rough spicules of bone. The disease affects symmetrically the corresponding parts of opposite bones, but in a different degree. Amputation through the lower third of the right thigh was performed by Mr. Earle on account of syphilitic ulceration and periostitis of the right leg. The patient died soon after the operation. (In Case A.) 299. A pair of Clavicles. Extending over the greater part of the external surface of each, is an irregular deposit of porous new bone, by which their thickness is much increased. In many places the new bone is perforated by ulcers of various sizes, and through some of these the surface of the original shaft may be seen. A section of the left clavicle shows that the interior of the bone has become condensed and heavy from the deposit of bone in the cancellous texture. From the body of a man who had long suffered from syphilis. 300. Two Femora, two Tibia?, and two Humeri, parts of the walls of which are thickened, chiefly by addition of new bone to their exterior. The disease affects symmetrically the corresponding parts of the opposite bones. A. 2 (In Case F.) 301. A Femur, Tibia, and Fibula, with thin node-like deposits of new bone on their surfaces. All (In Case F.) 302. Two Tibia? and two Femora, exhibiting a considerable increase in the thickness and density of their walls. The section of one of the femora shows that the thickest part of the wall is composed of nearly uniform compact bone. (In Case F.) A- 38 303. Two Femora, the shafts of which are generally enlarged. A k (In Case F.) 304. Two Femora enlarged iike the preceding. They show, as do also some of hose already described, the grooves impressed on the surface of the thic^ned bone by the large transversely-running vessels of the periosteum. Three sn^h grooves lying close together are seen above the inner condyle of tliP toff* m one of winch an artery, and in the others its associated veins, were lodged!^ (In Case F.) A. 6 305. A Tibia and Fibula partially enlarged, and presenting several rmdp* „ a • subcutaneous surfaces. The nodes consist of new bone deporited n« ^ in the form of slight, gradually-rising, convex, oval elevaCs (In Case F.) A- W 306. A Tibia of which the middle of the shaft is enlarged +i * a node on its anterior surface. enlarged by the formation of (In Case F.) A- 8 307. Sections of a Tibia partially enlaro-ed and wifh nn^n.n„ u , ■ The sections of the nodL show^that the disete th^&^ fined to the wall of the bone. constitutes them is con-