SERIES IX. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF VEINS. VARICOSE DILATATION. 1574. Portion of a Femoral Vein, exhibiting a partial dilatation of its coats in the form of a circumscribed pouch, projecting from one side. The pouch is lined by a continuation of the internal coat of the vein. Immediately above the pouch there are two valves in the vein, which have undergone no change. The coats of the vein are generally thickened. xill. 78 1575. Portion of a Vena Saphena and its branches in a varicose state. The veins are generally and nniformly dilated; their coats are thickened and rigid, so that their canal remains open ; and they have a convoluted and very tortuous course. xiii. 77 1576. Portion of a Vena Saphena, the walls of which are in several places dilated m the form of pouches. Its coats are thickened, and there are thin cords, apparently the remains of its valves, extending across its cavity. xm. 79 CALCAREOUS DEGENERATION. 1577. The Popliteal and portions of the Tibial Veins of a man, ao-ed 60, who died twelve days after amputation of the foot for injury. The coats of the veins are much thickened, and in some places their inner surface is studded with thin brittle plates of earthy matter. These are most abundant in the neighbourhood oi the valves, and increase in number towards the terminations of the vessels J he posterior tibial vein is for some distance an almost rigid tube. The arteries corresponding to these veins were in a condition of extreme degeneration. SUPPURATIVE PHLEBITIS. 1578. A Femoral Vein and Artery. The vein is thickened, and its upper ex- tremity is occluded by a clot. The intima is pulpy, and at the middle of the portion of the vessel preserved is separated from the other coats, and sloughv An abscess was here m contact with the vessel. The vein was filled with a curdy punform fluid which, on examination with the microscope, was found to be broken down blood clot containing numerous pus corpuscles. Microscopic WoTt Slr;?d,that the deeP ^ <>f the intima was crowded w th leucocytes, and the endothelium had separated. From a man who died of septicemia three weeks after undergoing amputation of hoth ^i^3S£rjsa*S as srT "Si; fa* rough with lymph deposited on its lining membrane! The lower and n , parts of the vem, and all the branches proceeding from it, are filled by E R 2