136 INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). descending rami, which has been firmly united, but with displacement of the fragments. c. 87 (In Case H.) FEMUR. Intra-Capsular and Extra-Capsular Fractures of the Neck of the Femur. 942. A Hip-Joint exhibiting a vertical fracture, of recent occurrence, through the intra-capsular portion of the neck of the femur. The capsule is thickened, and a portion of it, which is detached and turned downwards, has lymph deposited upon its internal surface. m. 8 943. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting an intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the femur. The capsule is much thickened, and the neck of the femur-is absorbed, m. 23 944. Portion of a Femur, showing an intra-capsular fracture of the neck which occurred a short time before death. The synovial and periosteal membranes are entire on the posterior surface of the neck. in. 54 945. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting a vertical fracture, of recent occurrence, through the intra-capsular portion of its neck. Upon the anterior half of the circumference of the neck of the bone, the periosteal and synovial coverings are torn : upon the posterior half they are entire. in. 7 946. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting an intra-capsular fracture through its neck. The direction of the fracture is such, that the surface of the bone exhibits on the one side an eminence, and on the other a corresponding cavity. The periosteum and the synovial membrane covering the neck are torn in only the anterior half of its circumference: upon the other half, the membranes are entire and still connect the two parts of the bone, which may thus, as well as by the mutual adaptation of the uneven surfaces of the fracture, have been held together with very little displacement. ill. 18 947. Portion of a Femur, in which there is a fracture extending vertically through the neck, from the upper margin of the head to the middle of the lower margin of the neck. » C. 55 (In Case H.) 948. The upper part of a Femur, fractured at the junction of the head and neck, a fortnight before death. The portion of the neck which remains attached to the shaft is much reduced in size, so that it no longer corresponds to the other fractured surface. C. 113 There was no shortening or eversion of the limb. The edge of the fractured neck rested against the edge of the acetabulum. (In Case H.) 949. Portions of a Femur, which was fractured vertically through the neck, at the base of the head, a few weeks before death. The plane of the fracture is irregular and the fragments were locked together, so that the principal indications of fracture were absent. 0. 115 (In Case H.) 950. Sections of the upper part of a Femur. The neck has been fractured at its base, and driven deeply into the substance of the great trochanter, which is comminuted. From a -woman, aged 74 years, who was knocked down by a cab. Immediately after the accident she presented the symptoms of fracture of the neck of the thigh bone, yiz., shortening, aversion of the limb, and crepitus at the hip on rotation. On the next day, shortening was less apparent, no crepitus could be felt, and the limb could be completely flexed on the abdomen with comparatively li 1 tic pain; she could not, however, lift the heel from (he bed.