DISEASES OF THE OVARIES. 440 PROLIFEROUS CYSTS. 2911. An Ovary, of which one half appears healthy, while, in the place of the other half, there are three cysts completely partitioned from each other and mutually compressed. A papillary growth springs from the wall of the lowest cyst. xxxi. 1 2912. A large Unilocular Proliferous Cyst of the Ovary; there are two small secondary cysts also proliferous at one part of the cyst-wall. Scattered over a considerable area of the inner surface of the cyst are numerous cancerous papil- lary growths, both discrete and aggregated into masses. The solitary growths present every variety in size, the largest being about the size of a small walnut; they are broad, rounded, and have a very slender pedicle. There are also irregular papillated masses covering a considerable surface. The cyst had no pedicle, and there were no adhesions ; it contained a dark brown fluid. Microscopic Examination of one of the Papillary Growths.—It was attached to the cyst-wall by a pedicle of fibrous tissue. From this thin trabecule of connective tissue branched out, again giving off finer secondary branches, which by anastomosing formed irregular spaces, mostly of an elongated shape. The margins of the spaces were covered by, and also inclosed round, granular cells, varying much in size, and containing a small nucleus. The centre of the spaces was either empty, or filled with colloid material. Among the innermost of the circumferential layer of cells, large hyaline nucleated cells were seen, in some cases signet-ring, and in others dissolving and merging into the colloid material occupying the centre of the alveolus; these forms appeared to be produced by colloid degeneration of the cells first described. From a woman, aged 60. She had noticed an enlargement of her abdomen for fourteen months. Ovariotomy was performed, from which she recovered.—See Martha Ward Book, March, 1879. Microscopic section, No. 127. 2913. A portion of a large Ovarian Cyst, with tumours and secondary cysts attached to its inner wall. The wall of the principal or outer cyst is from half a line to a line in thickness, and is composed of a tough fibrous tissue. The two largest tumours within it are oval in form; one measures five inches in its chief diameter, the other three inches; and each of them is attached by a small portion of its surface. Their sections show that they consist of medullary matter, in which are many cells filled with fluid and a gelatinous or mucous substance. There are several other tumours or cysts of small size attached to t^e internal walls of the great cyst, and full of fluid or medullary matter. xxxi. 20 From a woman, about 35 years old. The great cyst in which the tumours are inclosed had been several times tapped, and large quantities of serous fluid had been removed. It is probable that the malignant tumours had formed late in the course of the disease; for in the earlier periods, when the cyst was completely emptied by tapping, no solid masses could be felt in it. DERMOID CYSTS. 2914. Portion of Bone, in which an incisor and two molar teeth are fixed in cavities like alveoli. It was imbedded in the wall of an ovarian cyst. xxxi. 22 2914a. A portion of a Secondary Cyst, from a large ovarian cystoma. A hairy pendulous growth, from which the cusp of a tooth projects, is attached to the cyst-wall. A small plate of bone is felt within the wall at the point where the pedicle is attached. 2915. A Dermoid Cyst, containing fat, hairs, and teeth. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 2916. A Cyst, as large as a goose egg, in the position of the right ovary. It contained a brownish-yellow creamy fluid, and a mass of cheese-like material, without hair or fat, which is suspended in the bottle; probably an inspissated