18 DISEASES OF BONES. ABSCESS IN BONE. , . , ^a 127. A Sacrum, in the interior of which is a large cavity, which contained pns. The walls of the bone have been expanded, and large portions of them have been removed by ulceration. The cavity of the abscess opened widely into the spinal ' The'patient was between 50 and 60 years old, and died of organic disease in the stomach. There was no symptom which led to a suspicion of disease of the sacrum. 128. A Section of the lower end of a Femur from a child, in which there is a circumscribed abscess. It is situated in the cancellous texture immediate y above the epiphysis, through which a channel appears to have led into tnu joint. The internal surface of the cavity is smooth and lined throughout bj membrane, a part of which is still seen. 129. Portion of a Tibia, with a circumscribed smooth-walled cavity in the can- cellous texture of its head, which was filled with pus; it is lined by a soft vascular membrane, and opens by two apertures through the wall ot the tibia.^ 130. The upper part of a Tibia, which is occupied by a large circumscribed Abscess, of an hour-glass shape, lined by a "pyogenic membrane It was removed by amputation through the knee-pint from a man, aged 30 who had suffered from intermittent attacks of inflammation and suppuration m the upper part of his leg for some years. See also Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. xxv, p. 211. 131. The other half of the Specimen last described. 132. Sections of the lower part of a Tibia, in the articular end of which is a cavity, probably a chronic abscess, of the form and size of a hen s egg. This cavity is lined by a soft and vascular membrane, a line m thickness, and it contained a serous fluid. There is a small aperture in one side of the cavity which penetrates the wall of the bone; but, with this exception, the bone around the cavity appears healthy, and the joint is not implicated. L W INFLAMMATION WITH ULCERATION (CARIES). 133. A Skull-Cap, with superficial ulceration of both its tables. a. 71 (In Case F.) 134 Portions of a Skull-Cap, of which the outer table is tuberculated and irregularly ulcerated. The diploe and inner table are thickened and con- solidated, and the inner table appears to have been very vascular. a. bO These changes were the effects of external violence. 135 The lower ends of a Radius and Ulna, with the bones of the Carpus and Metacarpus, exhibiting extensive disease in and about the carpus with necrosis of the lower end of the radius. A considerable portion of the end of the radius, already deeply ulcerated, is necrosed, and was m process of exfoliation. The cartila-e between the ulna and the radius is completely destroyed The ulna and the bones of the carpus have had their cartilaginous surfaces destroyed by ulceration, and anchylosis has taken place between them, both by adhesion ot their surfaces and by thickening and consolidation of the surrounding parts. 136. The Bones of two Wrists, together with the lower ends of the Radii and Ulnse and the Metacarpal Bones, exhibiting the effects of Scrofulous Ulceration On the left side the carpal bones are nearly destroyed, and there are lar-e deep cavities, bounded by soft, greasy, crumbling bone, m the