DISEASES OF JOINTS. 84 567. A Knee-Joint, exhibiting the effects of inflammation. An abundant deposit of lymph has taken place upon the internal surface of the synovial membrane, and thin flakes of it adhere to the articular cartilages. ir. 3 Vide No. 612. "PULPY DEGENEBATION" OF THE SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. ("White Swelling-.") 568. An Elbow-Joint, in which, probably by chronic inflammation, the synovial membrane is converted into a light-brown substance, of a firm texture, about half or three-quarters of an inch in thickness, with white lines running through it in various directions, and with a soft smooth surface. The morbid change terminates at the margins of the articular cartilages. Around the neck of the radius, the thickened synovial membrane forms a fold projecting into the cavity of the joint. The cartilages and bones of the joint appear healthy. n. 12 The patient was a man 60 years old, and the disease had existed fifteen months. It origi- nated in a blow, after which the joint remained very stiff, but without pain and with little swelling, for twelve months. Numerous small swellings, like enlarged lymphatic glands, then formed around the joint ; they inflamed, and when punctured discharged a glairy fluid. The disease outside the joint increasing, the limb was amputated. On examination the swellings were found to have no connection with the interior of the joint. The difficulty of motion in the joint, especially the hindrance to the rotation of the radius, appeared to depend on the projecting folds of the synovial membrane. 569. A Knee-Joint, exhibiting a peculiar change of structure in the synovial membrane. The capsule has been extensively opened and raised for the purpose of exposing the cavity of the joint. The internal surface of the synovial mem- brane is granulated. The membrane has everywhere become very thick, and especially so at the upper and front part of the joint, where its thickness is not less than two inches, and its substance is so firm as to be almost of a gristly texture. The part of the membrane opposed to the articular cartilage of the femur was adherent to it. The whole of the soft parts external to the diseased synovial membrane have been carefully removed, so that nothing else is left around the joint. n. 24 Vide No. 633. DISEASE PROBABLY BEGINNING IN THE ARTICULAR ENDS OP ( THE BONES. 570. The Hip-Joint of a child, in which the ligamentum teres, the cartilage of the acetabulum, and a part of the substance uniting the three component bones of the os innominatum, have been destroyed by ulceration. A portion of glass is passed through the floor of the acetabulum into the pelvis, where a collection of pus was formed beneath the obturator muscle and fascia. The acetabulum and the capsular ligament, a part of which is preserved, are lined by lymph, which was mingled with pus ; but, with the exception of a slight superficial ulceration of its articular cartilage, the head of the femur is healthy. n. 59 The child, 7 years old, had suffered for six months with pain, and obscure signs of disease, in or about the hip-joint, when she was seized suddenly with the most acute pain in the joint, which after some time remitted but returned at intervals. Two months afterwards she died. Presented by R. W. Tamplin, Esq. 571. A Hip-Joint, of which the synovial membrane and the ligaments are swollen and intensely congested. The surfaces of the joint are smeared with shreds of recent lymph. The cartilage investing the femur is thinned by superficial ulceration; that investing the upper margin of the acetabulum is undermined, and detached from the bone. On the dorsum ilii just above the margin of the acetabulum, is an abscess cavity, which contained about a teaspoonful of cheesy