SERIES VTIL DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 1375. The Heart and the commencement of the large arteries of a woman, aged 25 "who died under the following circumstances:—She received a blow on the chest whereby a needle, which fastened her shawl, was driven through the second intercostal space of the right side, in its upper part, close to the border of the sternum, passing between the bone and the internal mammary artery. _ It penetrated to the extent of about two inches, and was broken off on a level with the skin No immediate effect was apparent. She came to the Hospital, and the portion of the needle which appeared firmly fixed, was extracted. When the broken end was exposed by a small incision, it was observed to move slightly with the heart's action. She was with difficulty persuaded to remain. In less than an hour she became very faint. The faintness rapidly increased, and she soon died On post-mortem examination the pericardium was found distended with blood which had separated into clot and serum, the former completely investing the heart. The blood effused amounted to nearly a pint. In the wall of the aorta is seen a minute aperture (through which the portion of the needle is passed), and near to it are two other smaller wounds, only one ot which appeared to have completely perforated the wall. They are just below the point where the pericardium is reflected, the opposite portion of which presented a corresponding aperture. No other injury could be detected. ^ 1376 The arch of the Aorta, with its large branches. Immediately beyond the origin of the left subclavian, the aorta presents a ragged laceration, involving mo?e than half its circumference. The specimen was removed from the body of a middle-ao-ed man, who, after eating some fish, complained of constant pain behind the first bone of the sternum, and every day spat up blood, which was for the most part of a bright red, but sometimes of a dark colour. He also passed a laro-e quantity of dark clotted blood by the anus, and died from exhaustion. °At the post mortem examination a sharp lance-shaped fish bone was found transfixing both the oesophagus and the arch of the aorta. It was evident that the lacerated wound of the latter had been produced by the move- ment of the vessel as it pulsated upon the point of the bone. 1377 A common Carotid Artery, into which the smaller end of a tobacco-pipe was' driven a few days before death. At the upper part of the preparation is shown a portion of a sloughing cavity, in which the wounded part of the artery is involved, and from which the external and internal carotid arteries