DISEASES OF BONES. 47 DISEASES OP BONES DUE TO CONGENITAL SYPHILIS. 348. A Skull-Cap, in which there is an irregular increase in the thickness of the diploe, producing large convex elevations of the outer surface about the prominences marking the original centres of ossification of the parietal bones. The diploe is consolidated as well as thickened : the outer table is smooth and healthy ; the inner table is deeply impressed by the vascular grooves. The cavity of the skull appears to have been small, especially in the parts beneath the external elevations. A. 37 (In Case F.) 349. Sections of a Skull-Cap, showing a similar change, but in a rather less degree. a. 43 The changes in this and the preceding specimen were probably due to congenital syphilis. (In Case F.) 350. Skull-Cap of a Foetus. There is a thin deposit of porous bone on the external surface along the margins of the sutures, especially the frontal, and in the temporal fossa. 351. The left Tibia and Fibula of the same Foetus, showing enlargement of then- shafts by the formation of a layer of porous, soft, chalk-like bone on their surfaces. The deposit is thickest at the middle of the tibia, where it forms a nodular enlargement. Microscopically it was found to consist of lamellae of bone vertical to the surface, in which the ossification was very irregular and incomplete. See Microscopic Sections, No. 7. 352. Several of the Long Bones from the same Foetus, showing with few excep- tions separation of the epiphyses from the diaphyses. The extremities of the diaphyses are soft, rough, as if breaking down, and the periosteum is in some instances separated at this point to a slight extent, leaving the surface of the bone rough and apparently carious. Sections show that the extremities of the diaphyses are infiltrated with a yellowish, granular material. The foetus, from which the bones were taken, was aborted at the sixth or seventh month from a woman, who had just been admitted into the hospital for a stricture of the rectum. The disease in the rectum was cured, but returned a year later. The disease in the bones of the foetus was believed to be syphilitic. See account of case by Mr. Eve, in the Z7ed,tonS6.°f Patholo^cal Society, vol. xxxi, 1880. Microscopic sections are pre 353. Several of the Bones of a Foetus, on the surface of which there is a more or less general deposit of a thin layer of finely porous chalky-lookinc bone which terminates abruptly just before the extremity of the diaphysis is reached. The deposit is most abundant and uniform on the fibula and radius. The section of the bones has a natural appearance, but they were found to be abnormally dense 1 he skull-cap was normal. J Microscopic examination of the bones showed that the line of ossification was slhrhtlv ZS T\l ^ ofc,al?fied was increased in thickness Th^to^born dead at the seventh or eighth month of gestation. The Darenta ~ I l , i i MISCELLANEOUS SPECIMENS. Specimen No. 456 was taken from the same individual. *" 48