DISEASES OF JOINTS. 90 and inferior margins of the acetabulum. The remains of the head of the femur were adapted to the surface of new bone formed on the acetabulum; and the summit of a very large mass of new bone growing up from the upper part of the neck rested on the surface of the new bone formed behind the posterior margin of the acetabulum. B- ^ (In Case G.) 608. The bones of the Hip-Joint of a young person. The brim of the acetabulum, and the head, neck, and part of the shaft of the femur, have been completely removed by ulceration. There are also large ulcerated apertures in the upper and anterior walls of the acetabulum. B- (In Case Gr.) 609. The bones of a Hip-Joint, in which there has been superficial ulceration of the acetabulum and of the head of the femur. The head of the femur was slightly displaced upwards. b. 15 (In Case G.) 610. Bones of a Hip-Joint. The neck of the femur is not more than half an inch long. The head is expanded and flattened into the form of a disk ; its margin is very irregular; its articular surface is soft, and perforated by numerous small holes. The acetabulum is wide and shallow, in correspondence with the form of the head of the femur, which exactly fitted it. The notch of the acetabulum is very large, and much of the osseous tissue adjacent to it seems to have been destroyed. B- 51 (In Case Gr.) 611. Portion of a Femur, of which the head and neck have been removed by ulceration. New bone is formed, in a saccular shape, in front of the trochanter b. 19 minor. (In Case Gr.) 612. Bones of a Knee-Joint, exhibiting the effects of inflammation, which it was presumed commenced in the synovial membrane. The greater part of the articular surfaces of the tibia and femur are deeply ulcerated; the portions of them which remain are hardened and polished like ivory. Upon the exterior of each bone, contiguous to its articular surface, there is an irregular deposit of osseous substance. 613. Sections of the head and upper part of a Tibia. Portions of the bone, from long-continued inflammation, are irregularly excavated by ulceration, and the whole of its texture is porous and spongy. lo^> The limb was amputated in consequence of destructive inflammation of the knee-joint. 614 The Lower Extremity of a Femur from a case of destructive disease of the knee-joint. The articular surface of the femur is penetrated by several distinct rounded patches of caries. (In Case G.) 615. The Head of a Tibia, in which there are numerous Carious Cavities. ii. 184 616. The bones of a Knee-Joint, exhibiting ulceration of the articular surfaces of the femur and tibia. B' 23 (In Case Or.) 617 The bones of a Knee-Joint, in which the patella is united by bone to the space between the condyles of the femur, and the condyles are similarly united to the articular surfaces of the tibia. The disease probably commenced m the