DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. 44 7 intestine measuring seven feet eight inches in length, its coils matted together and adherent to the walls of the sac. xxxii. 55 From a woman who had suffered from procidentia uteri for fifteen years. About three weeks before death the procidentia suddenly became more extensive. The tumour could not be reduced, peritonitis ensued, and was the immediate cause of the fatal result. The case is fully related in the St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xi, p. 577. INVERSION. 2949. A Uterus and its appendages with part of the Vagina. The uterus is entirely inverted, with the exception of the cervix, which, however, does not cause any constriction, the finger passing easily between it and the uterine wall. The openings of the Fallopian tubes into the uterus cannot be dis- covered on its inverted surface. The peritoneum at the point of inversion is thickened and uneven. The uterine appendages are drawn into the cul-de-sac formed by the inverted uterus. This inversion was irreducible, and the displacement of the uterus caused death, in consequence of frequently recurring haemorrhage, twenty-nine months after its occurrence. xxxii. 56 The case is reported by Dr. West in the Proceedings of the Pathological Society of London, vol. iii, p. 140. 2950. A Uterus and its appendages. The fundus is inverted, and in the sac thus formed a portion of the broad and round ligaments and the Fallopian tubes were found. It occurred after delivery. xxxii. 73 2951. The body of an inverted Uterus excised in the Royal Infirmary of Edin- burgh. Case recorded in Edinburgh Medical Journal for March, 1877. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. Vide No. 3092 in Series XLVL ADHESIONS OF THE UTERUS TO THE SURROUNDING STRUCTURES. 2952. A Uterus, with one of the ovaries and the corresponding Fallopian tube turned round and adherent to its surface. The Fallopian tube and ovary are themselves closely united by old adhesions. The opposite ovary and the extremity of its Fallopian tube are also similarly connected, but are not adherent to the uterus. xxxi. 6 2953. A Uterus, with the adjacent parts. As the result of perimetritis, irregular adhesions have formed about the ovaries, Fallopian tubes, and broad ligaments. The left broad ligament is much contracted, and the body of the uterus is thus drawn to the left side, so that its axis is almost at a right angle to that of the vagina. XXXII. 38 Vide No. 2164 in Series XX. RESULTS OF INFLAMMATION". DYSMENORRHCEAL MEMBRANE. 2954. A Dysmenorrhceal Membrane, from a woman who for many months had been in the habit of passing a similar membrane at each menstrual period. xxxii. 58 PYOMETRA. 2955. A Uterus. The cervix is affected with epithelial cancer, by which the canal is obliterated. The cavity of the fundus is greatly dilated and was filled with pus. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 2956. A Uterus, in the side wall of which a large fibroid is imbedded. In its growth the tumour has bent the uterus laterally, and so encroached upon its cavity, that the cervical canal was shut off from the body. (A portion of