SERIES XXV. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE SPLEEN. ATROPHY. 2295. Atrophied Spleen, which when fresh weighed 5 dwts. 15 grs. It was otherwise apparently normal to the naked eye. From a case of lymphoma. THICKENING- OP THE CAPSULE. 2296. A Spleen, in the capsnle of which there are several thick and irregularly nodulated masses of a substance resembling cartilage. xxn. 1 2297. A Spleen, the capsule of which is altered in a similar manner. Presented by Mr. HoUand. CHANGES IN AGUE. 2298. Two portions of Spleen, from patients who died of the Walcheren fever. 182 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. TUBERCLE. 2299. The Spleen of a child, in which there are numerous close-set tubercular deposits. They have the form of miliary tubercles, and many of them are softened at their centres, or present a small central cavity consequent on the separation of the softened substance. xxn. 2 2300. A similar Specimen. xxn. 3 2301. A Spleen containing an abundant deposit of tubercle. xxn. 20 From a boy, aged 8 years, who died with general tubercular disease. The specimen is represented in the drawing, No. 294. 2302. A Spleen, with miliary tubercles in its substance and on its capsules, from a male child, aged 8 months, who was brought to the Hospital dead. Miliary tubercles were found in the pleura, liver, and around some small caseous masses in the lungs. None were found elsewhere in the body. There was pericarditis with much lymph and effusion. The bronchial, mesenteric, and lumbar glands were filled with caseous matter. The spleen was neither enlarged nor unduly congested. There were no tubercles in the pericardium.—See Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. xxvi, 1875. xxn. 33 2303. A Spleen, infiltrated with masses of tubercle, some of which are softening in the centre. From a man, aged 25 years, who died from tubercular meningitis. Both lungs contained scattered masses of tubercle, chiefly grey. At the right apex was a caseous mass, about the size of a hazel-nut, and at the left apex were three cavities, the largest capable of holding half an ounce of fluid. There was a nodule of yellow tubercle, about the size of a pea, in the frontal region of