GENERAL PATHOLOGY. ovo 3340a. A large, sprouting, ulcerated mass of Colloid Cancer, extending around the entire circumference of the mucous membrane of the descending colon tor several inches. On the external surface of the intestine, having no peritoneal covering, there was an ulcerated aperture, half an inch in length, communicating with a large abscess cavity, which passed down into the pelvis, and tnence to the thigh. From a woman, aged 44 years.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. vii, p. 237. VASCULAR TUMOURS—ANGIOMATA. 3341. Portion of Skin, and of a subcutaneous, venous, Vascular or Erectile Tumour. The lens-shaped tumour is included between the cutis and the fascia superficialis ; it is well-defined, and part of its surface is covered with a thin scar, where a superficial ulcer over it healed. Its deeper part has the tint of partially decolorised blood. xxxv. 88 3342. The other portion of the same Vascular Tumour, dissected from the parts among which it was placed. It is minutely and rather deeply lobed; and, m this shrunken state, after the emptying of its blood-vessels, looks very like a piece of salivary gland, soft but tough, and pale brownish-white. xxxv. 89 The tumour was taken after death from a child 2 years old, in whom it had grown from the time of birth. During life it had the ordinary characters of the venous vascular tumours, being soft, compressible, dimly blue as seen through the skin, and became enlarged during forcible expiration. Six small veins could be traced to its borders; its arteries were too small to be distinct. Its whole substance appeared to be composed of minute blood-vessels, interlacing in the subcutaneous fibro-cellular and elastic tissues. The blood-vessels were generally cylindriform, but some were varicose or sacculated; all of them were of simple structure. The case is described, and some of the blood-vessels are represented, in Sir J. Paget'a " Lectures on Pathology," Third Edition, p. 578, fig. 92. 3343. Portions of a Neevus, which were removed from the inside of the cheek of a boy, 14 years old. In the upper portion a section of the nsevus is made, show- ing the consolidation which the structure had undergone from repeated attacks of inflammation. With the middle portion an inch and a quarter of the parotid duct is connected. A bristle is passed through the duct. On this portion a multitude of fine fringe-like processes have been formed by the enlargement of the papillae of the mucous membrane of the cheek. No inconvenience followed the removal of the piece of the parotid duct. xxxv. 21 3344. A small Tumour, laid open with the adjacent skin and subcutaneous tissue, which was removed from the fore-arm of a man, aged C3 years, where it had existed for two years. It was occasionally painful and exquisitely tender. When recent its section closely resembled in appearance that of the corpus cavernosum. It was sponge-like, having throughout a cellular structure, which freely com- municated with small vessels, and possessed all the characters of an ordinary vascular tumour. 3345. The Pinna of an Ear, injected, affected with arterial angioma (aneurism by anastomosis). On the upper margin and posterior surfaces the outline of the dilated and tortuous vessels is seen, beneath one of which a piece of glass is placed. Part of the external surface is rough from superficial ulceration. The section shows that the growth is composed of soft connective tissue, permeated by moderate-sized vessels. Microscopic Examination.—A section shows large tortuous vessels with thin walls, giving off capillaries of nearly uniform size, which anastomose and form a close and more or less regular network. The walls of the arterioles are formed of a layer of endothelium, supported by a thin lamina of condensed connective tissue: the capillaries of endothelial cells. The connective tissue of the growth is loose and contains numerous round cells.