DRAWINGS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. 600 373, 374. Brains of two Rabbits which, after death, were suspended so that the blood might gravitate in the one from, in the other towards, the head. The brain and its membranes, in the former, are pale, showing scarcely a trace of blood ; those in the latter have their blood-vessels over-filled. These and the following sketches were made from Rabbits on which some of the experiments were performed which are recorded by Sir Gr. Burrows, in his " Essay on the Disorders of the Cerebral Circulation." 375, 376. Brains of two Rabbits, of which one was killed by haemorrhage, the other by strangulation. The contrast in the respective states of their blood- vessels is nearly as marked as in the preceding. 377, 378. Similar sketches of the Brains of two Rabbits, of which, after death, by apncea, one was suspended with the head upwards, and the other was laid horizontally. The contrast is similar to that shown in 373, 374, but less marked. 379, 380. Brain of two Rabbits which, after death by drowning, were placed in the same positions as the preceding. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD. 381. Apoplexy of the Membranes of a Spinal Cord, with disks of substance like cartilage on the arachnoid. The preparation is in Series XXXI, No. 2531. 382. Effusion of Lymph beneath the arachnoid membrane covering the pons, medulla oblongata, and spinal cord, of a child who died after severe and almost constant opisthotonos. 383. Acute Softening of the Spinal Cord, taken from a girl aged 14 years. (T. Godart,) The disease commenced about a week previous to her admission to the Hospital, without any apparent cause. She died on the sixth day after her admission from progressive complete paralysis, which had extended to the arms. 384. Softening of the Spinal Cord with extravasation of blood, the result of a fracture of the seventh cervical vertebra. (T. Godart.) 385. A similar Specimen. (T. Godart.) 386. A Spinal Cord crushed by a fracture and dislocation of the spine. (W. J. Bayntin.) DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NERVES. 387. Face of a man with right facial paralysis. (T. Godart.) 388. A Fibrous Tumour in the posterior Tibial Nerve, containing a soft grumous material. (T. Godart.) The Specimen is preserved in Series XXXII, No. 2555. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EYE. 389. A small Tumour, growing apparently beneath the conjunctiva, and bearing three hairs, like eye-lashes, on its surface. (A. M. McWhinnie.) 390. The Eye of an Ox, with a growth of coarse warty Skin extending over part of the cornea, and bearing tufts of hair. (W. J. Bayntin.)