DISEASES OF JOINTS. 9(5 leg was performed at the patient's earnest request, after she had been for some months in the Hospital, during which period very little appreciable improvement had taken place. 660. A section through the Tibia, Os Calcis, Scaphoid, and the remains of the Astragalus, taken from a boy, aged'11 years. Osseous anchylosis has taken place between these bones. A carious tunnel, about one inch deep, extends along the outer side of the astragalus. Four years before his death the greater part of the astragalus and upper part of the os calcis were removed by the gouge for caries. 661. A portion of the lower part of a Tibia, divided in an anterio-posterior direc- tion. At the margin of the articular surface the cartilage has been partly absorbed and the cancellous tissue is exposed. In the centre there is a thin scale of bone firmly adherent to it. EL 83 From a boy aged 14, who, after a neglected fracture of the fibula, suffei*ed extensive necrosis of the bones, and inflammation of the ankle-joint. He became so reduced by suppuration and surgical fever that amputation through the knee was performed five weeks after the original injury, and one month after the ankle-joint became involved. On examination the bones were found inflamed and very vascular. Anchylosis had already so far advanced that in parting the astragalus and tibia the thin scale that is seen on the surface of the tibia came off from the articular aspect of the astragalus. The case is related in the St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. iv, 1845. 662. The Tibia, Fibula, and Astragalus of a man, divided longitudinally, showing osseous anchylosis, the result of inflammation following an injury four years previously. The bones are rarefied, but the tibia above is thickened. A portion of necrosed bone lies loose in the medullary cavity at the lower extremity of the tibia. (In Case Gr.) 663. The inner side of a Right Foot, showing a longitudinal section at the level of the division between the second and third toes. There is complete bony anchylosis of the ankle-joint and of the articulation between the astragalus and os calcis. The tibia, astragalus, and posterior part of the os calcis are condensed by inflam- mation, but otherwise appear healthy. The anterior portion of the os calcis is carious. The astragalo-scaphoid joint is normal. All the other tarsal and tarso- metatarsal joints are more or less affected ; the synovial membrane is pulpy. The tarsal bones are soft and fatty, and were deeply congested. From a man aged 33. The anchylosis was the result of an injury sustained sixteen years before the foot was amputated in the lower third of the leg for strumous inflammation of the anterior tarsal bones.—See Pitcairn Ward Book, vol. v, p. Ill, and Henry Ward Book, vol. iii, p. 86. For other Specimens of Anchylosis see Nos. 617, 618, Series I Nos. 190, 40, and Series III 2fos. 823,834,835. CHANGES DUE TO RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. 664. The base of a Skull, exhibiting disease in the right articulation for the Lower Jaw. Ulceration, commencing in the surface of the glenoid cavity, has extended both widely and deeply in the adjacent bone, and new bone is formed around the ulcerated surface. n. 27 665. Portion of the base of a Skull, exhibiting partial absorption of the sui'face of the glenoid cavity, the effect of disease in the articulation of the lower jaw. ii. 42 666. A Shoulder-Joint, in which there has been degeneration and removal of the articular cartilage, with hardening of the subjacent bone. The capsule is gene- rally thickened, and there are numerous groups of small pendulous processes, and two larger masses of calcifying fibro-cartilage attached to its internal surface. 11 • 22