GENERAL PATIIOLOi.Y. 2 K 4D7 The tumour had been growing for ten years ; there were no enlarged glands. Microscopic Examination.—The growth is composed of small spindle-cells, intermixed abundantly in places with round cells. Round cells darkly stained are abundant around (he vessels, which have no proper walls. In places a transition of round cells into spindle-cells appears to be going on, and again of spiudle-cells into fibrous tissue. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 168. 3304. Section of a Foot, showing-a "recurring- fibroid" Tumour (spindle-cell Sarcoma), occupying the whole of the sole. The patient was a healthy look- ing woman, aged 30 years. A similar but smaller tumour had been removed three times previously from the sole, at intervals of about a year between each removal. The lymphatic glands were not affected. No recurrence had taken place two years after the removal of the foot. 3305. A Fibro-Sarcomatous Tumour, which grew from the buttock. Its outer surface is largely nodulated; the section presents a reticulation of glistening fibres having a cartilaginous lustre. The tumour was not connected with bone. It consisted microscopically of a matrix of fibrous tissue and spindle-cells enclosing round nuclei. The tumour was removed by operation from a lady, aged 58 years. Three years previously a similar growth had been removed from the same situation. Presented by A. Willett, Esq. 3305a. A Fore-Arm and Hand. The lower extremities of the bones of the fore- arm, and the bones of the carpus, are surrounded by a lobed and ulcerated mass of soft sarcoma. The interior of the bones appears healthy. xxxv. 8 Microscopic Examination.—The growth consists of large spindle-cells. 3306. Section of a flattened oval Tumour, removed from beneath the integu- ments of a woman's back. Its base was closely connected with the trapezius muscle, a portion of which was removed with it. The tumour is composed of four portions of unequal size, which are loosely connected by areolar tissue; and on the cut surface of each portion there is an appearance of lobular arrangement. In texture, the tumour resembles the fibrous tumours of the uterus. In the portion of integument lying over the tumour is a large cicatrix, the result of an operation by which a tumour had been previously removed from the same part. xxxv. 52 The patient was m apparently healthy woman, between 50 and 60 years old. Nine months before the removal of this tumour, one, which had been growing for about sixteen months, was removed from the same part. This was growing rapidly, and with much pain ; the skin over it was very red, and the adjacent veins were large. There was profuse hecmorrhage at the time of the operation j but the patient recovered from it, and seemed restored to health. The tumour yielded a large quantity of gelatine when boiled in water. The other half is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. 3307. A Tumour, with a portion of the muscles of the thigh in which it is imbedded. _ An elliptical piece of skin is connected with the°tumour, in which there is a cicatrix, the result of a former operation for the removal of a morbid growth occupying the same situation. The tumour is of a firm homogeneous texture In a cavity surrounded by condensed cellular tissue are two ligatures with which arteries had been tied at the first operation. xxxv. 31 From a middle-aged man. The second operation was performed about two years after'the first, The tumour had grown rapidly, and presented so malignant an appearance that little of tLTseTse! F " r0COTelT '' but Le lh ed S'Vei'al year^0Ut any return 3308. Portion (about one half) of a fibrous and spindle-cell sarcomatous Tumour which weighed 9 lbs. 4| ozs. It was removed from the lumbar region of a man aged 50 years, in December, 1869. The tumour recurred, and was removed in