53 DISEASES OF BONES. 399. Portions of a superior Maxillary Bone, diseased like that last described, and which separated after Necrosis. The portions, before division, formed a nearly spherical mass of hard, heavy, and finely cancellous bone. I. 260 The patient was a man 37 years old. A smooth prominence of the nasal process of the right superior maxillary bone had been noticed for two years ; but it was not increasing, and lie was admitted into the hospital with what appeared to be necrosis of the alveolar portion of the jaw, and suppuration around it. After four months, this mass of bone, which occupied the position of the antrum, completely separated and was removed. The cavity which remained opening widely into both the mouth and the nose, gradually contracted or was filled up, and the man recovered perfectly. 400. A dense Osseous Tumour, involving the whole of the left superior Maxillary Bone. From a boy aged 9 years.—See Abernethy Ward Book, vol. i, p. 344. 401. A portion of the left side of the body of the lower Jaw of a child, corre- sponding with the canine and the first two molar teeth. Projecting from its external surface is a tumour composed of cancellous tissue covered with a layer of compact bone. The periosteum investing the tumour is greatly thickened, but was found under the microscope to be normal in structure . From a child 10 years old. A tumour of the jaw had been observed eighteen months, and a portion of it had been removed before she came into the hospital. On her admission the growth was increasing so rapidly and the parts over it were so vascular that it was feared it was of a malignant nature. The child recovered after the operation. 402. Portion of an Ulna on which a large Osseous Tumour has arisen from the whole of its articular surface between the olecranon and coronoid process. The tumour, compact on its surface and cancellous within, is lobed and irregularly nodulated. A. 136 (In Case G.) 403. Bones of the Fore Leg of a Horse, on which, are numerous nodulated and rough growths of hard bone. They form a very large mass around the distal extremity of the metacarpal bone. a. 154 (In Case G.) 404. Section of the Hind Leg of a Dog, in which the Knee- and Ankle-Joints are surrounded by growths, which consist of a substance like fibro-cartilage and of bone. I. 253 The substance overlying and intermixed with the osseous growth consists microscopically of fibrous tissue, composed of coarse intermingling fibres with distinct contour; probably a growth from the periosteum. 405. Section of the opposite Hind Leg of the same Log, with exactly similar growths. The soft parts have been removed by maceration. The osseous parts of the growths thus appear formed principally of crooked branching rods, like masses of coral round the joints. The bases of the growths are fixed on the surfaces of the articular ends of the bones; and bone, of the same general character, but much less abundant, is deposited on the patella, the shafts of the femur and tibia, and all the bones of the foot. I. 254 Presented by W. J. Bayntin, Esq. 406. The Radius and Ulna of a Dog, with similar growths of coral-like Bone on a large portion of their surfaces. Many others of the bones were similarly diseased. x 255 Presented by W. S. Ward, Esq. CARTILAGINOUS TUMOURS (Enchondromata). 407. An Enchondroma involving the whole of the superior Maxilla. The bone is much enlarged and no trace of the original wall is left. The two incisors