337 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LIVER. Nearly all the branches of the portal vein were similarly filled, and the gall-bladder con- tained a medullary growth preserved in the next Series, No. 2265. 2223. A Medullary Growth occupying the liver, minutely injected to show the great vascularity of certain portions. 161 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. lOEVUS. 2224. A portion of the Liver of a woman, aged 55 years, who died of bronchitis after removal of a scirrhous tumour of the breast. Imbedded in its substance, but circumscribed by a well-marked capsule, is a large nrevus. Several other noevi, varying in size, but all smaller than this one, were found in adjacent por- tions of the liver. There is a drawing of the specimen, No. 281. 2225. Portion of the Liver from a man aged 28 years. One-third of the Spigelian lobe is occupied by a nsevus, the liver tissue being quite absent from this spot.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. iii, Case 178. xvni. 45 ENTOZOA IN THE LIVER. 2226. Portion of a L iver, in which is a Cyst containing Hydatids of various sizes. The structure of the liver appears healthy, but its fibrous and peritoneal coats are thickened where the cyst is in contact with them. xvni. 2 2227. Portion of a Liver, with a Hydatid Cyst half imbedded in it and half projecting from its surface. The hydatids are nearly all broken and collapsed; the walls of the cyst containing their remains are tough and laminated. The structure of the liver presents the appearances of fatty degeneration. xvm. 3 2228. Portion of a Liver containing a Cyst like those last described, and of tough, nearly cartilaginous, texture. Within this cyst there was a second cyst, formed in part of membrane like that of a common acephalocyst hydatid, and in part of a much thicker and more opaque substance. This inner cyst has broken into two portions, one of which is suspended, and the other lies loose ; the internal surface of the thickest part is covered with nodules probably secondary cysts. xvni. 4 2229. A large Hydatid Cyst, projecting from the fissure of a liver. From a middle-aged woman, who died from the effects of a growth in the brain —See Post Mortem Book, vol. vii, p. 161. 2230. Portion of a Liver, in which there is a solid spherical mass, partly imbedded m its substance, and partly projecting from its surface. The circum- ference of this mass is apparently formed by a distinct cyst; the central solid part consists of a mixture of a substance like fibro-cartilage arranged in concentric layers, and of a soft, putty-like substance. A portion of tb? ffreat omentum adheres to the surface of the tumour, and of the contiguous part of the liver. ° t nn xvni. 30 It is probable that the cyst had contained hydatids. 2231. " A large Cyst, containing Hydatids, which was attached to the liver Ihe walls of the cyst are thin, tough, and laminated; its inner surface is uneven, pulpy, and shreddy. xvm g 2232. Portion of a Liver, with a Cyst, which contained bile. The walls of the* cyst are of a cartilaginous texture. The surrounding tissue of the orean is SSmS" sPeRlmen a probably a hydatid cyst, into which bile had xvni. 24