DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. anterior surface and pupillary margin of the iris. Under the microscope a section showed numerous stellate pigment cells. There were visible also delicate fibres and variously shaped cells, some of them with nuclei and nucleoli. Both irides were grey and speckled with irregular patches ot the same brown colour as that of the tumour.—See Ophthalmic Ward Book, Female, vol. i, p. 202. 2607. An Eye, showing multiple growths upon and within the iris and ciliary processes. From a little girl, aged 4 years. She had for two years been under treatment on account of disease of the hip-joint; but no change had been observed in the eye until within a few weeks before her admission into the Hospital. Treatment proving of no avail, the eye was removed. Under the microscope the growths appeared to be composed of small nucleated cells with a distinct fibrillated stroma (? tubercle) ; the larger masses containing, in addition, some stellate cells more or less pigmented, and the remains of iris tissues.—See Ophthalmic Ward Book, Female, vol. i, p. 240. 2608. The anterior half of an Eye divided by a median vertical section. A white soft rounded growth, about the size of a pea, springs from the lower segment of the iris and projects into the anterior chamber. The pupil is slightly displaced upwards, irregular, and there are tags of adhesion to the capsule of the lens. Pink vessels ramified over the surface of the growth in the recent state. A mass of corresponding size projects backward in the ciliary region: it is internal to the ciliary processes. Microscopic Examination.—The growth consists of small round nuclei in a delicate matrix of connective tissue. It is probably a round-cell sarcoma. From a boy, aged 5 years. The pupil was fixed and did not dilate under atropine. The vision was impaired but not lost. The fundus could not be illuminated. The boy's father observed that he possessed a peculiar liability to suppuration after very slight injuries, as, for instance, a bruise. He had had scarlet fever two months before admission to the Hospital. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 110. CHOROID. CALCAREOUS DEGENERATION, AND FORMATION OF BONE. 2609. Portion of the Eye of a girl, aged 16. The sight of the eye had been lost from inflammation during infancy. The retina has been removed. The choroid coat which has lost its pigment is seen to be dotted with small granules—the so-called colloid degeneration of the elastic membrane of the choroid. These isolated deposits undergo earthy degeneration, and by their coalescence form the plates of bone occasionally met with. 2610. The posterior half of an Eye, removed from a woman, aged 35. It con- tained a shallow cup of bone, rather more than half an inch in diameter and one- eighth of an inch thick. There is a small central opening in the cup through which the detached retina, reduced to a mere fibrous cord, passed. The sight of the eye had been completely lost in consequence of erysipelas in childhood. 2611. Eye of a child, aged 3 years. The eye had been blind since early infancy from the effects of purulent ophthalmia. The entire cornea was opaque. The lens is coated with a thin shell of white earthy material. The vitreous body is much shrunken; the retina has become completely detached from the optic nerve. A small pyramidal piece of bone-like material has been formed at the point of separation, between the retina and choroid. The eye was removed on account of sympathetic iritis in the other eye.