PATHOLOGICAL MICROSCOPIC SPECIMENS. 558 FIBROUS TUMOUR OF NIPPLE. 154. A Pedunculated Tumour growing from the nipple, which formed its pedicle. It is composed entirely of well-formed fibrous tissue, and is covered by epithe- lium. From Specimen No. 3187. GENERAL PATHOLOGY. INFLAMMATION AND ITS EFFECTS. 155. Portion of False Membrane, formed around blood effused in the arachnoid sac. Its blood-vessels are minutely injected; they form an irregular wide- meshed plexus. Prepared and presented by Henry Gray, Esq. 156. A small partially healed Scar on the Face, caused by the bite of a mad dog, and leading to the death of the patient from hydrophobia. The wound shows the ordinary appearances of healing by granulations. The epithelium termi- nates abruptly on either side of the wound, the surface of which is covered by a thick layer of closely-crowded " indifferent" cells. These also infiltrate the subjacent subcutaneous tissue to a considerable depth. 157. A section taken at the margin of an Ulcer of the Leg. It shows essentially the same appearances as the preceding ; at the margin of the ulcer the epithe- lium is thickened and its interpapillary processes are elongated. ENCHONDEOMATA. 158. Sections of an Enchondroma, which grew from the posterior surface of a Femur into the popliteal space. The cartilage cells are of very varying shapes, and some are branched: the matrix is in places softened and breaking down from mucoid degeneration. 159. An Enchondroma, the matrix of which is in some parts hyaline, in others fibrous. From Specimen No. 3261. FIBROUS TUMOURS. 160. Section of a "painful Subcutaneous Tumour," composed of dense fibrous tissue, arranged for the most part in small interlacing fasciculi. Prom Specimen No. 3270. 161 Section of a Subcutaneous Tumour composed of loose reticular connective tissue, containing many round, oval, and elongated nuclei in its meshes. Prom Specimen No. 3276. 162 Section of a Fibrous Tumour removed from the Ulnar Nerve. It is com- posed of filamentous connective tissue containing abundant small round and spindle-shaped nuclei. From Specimen No. 3283. STRIPED MUSCLE TUMOURS. 162a A section of a Tumour connected with a Kidney of an infant, composed principally of fasciculi of striped muscular fibres. Scattered throughout the growth small nodules of closely crowded round cells are found, intermixed m Places with spindle-cells. All transitions from the round cells into spindle-cells, and from the spindle-cells into striped muscular fibres were observable. No kidney structures were found in the growth. From Specimen No. 3293a.