578 CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. 196. Cast of Head delivered by cephalotribe. This and the four preceding specimens were presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. DISEASES OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. 197. Model of a Breast affected with Cancer. 198. Model of a Breast with Cancer in a state of ulceration. ANATOMY OF STUMPS AFTER AMPUTATION OF LIMBS. 199. Cast of part of a Hand, which remained after amputation of all the fingers and of their metacarpal bones near their carpal ends. The amputation was performed on account of an injury of the hand. 200. Cast of a Leg, after amputation just above the ankle. 201. Cast of a Leg, after amputation at the ankle-joint. Presented, with the preceding, by W. J. Wilson, Esq. 202. Cast of a Leg, and of the part of a Foot which remained after amputation through the tarsus on account of injury. The tarsal bones remaining in the stump were the os calcis, astragalus, os scaphoid, and, probably, the os cuboides. 203. Cast of part of a Foot, which remained after amputation of nearly the whole of the tarsus and metatarsus on account of injury. Presented by C. A. Key, Esq. TUMOURS, AND ALLIED MORBID GROWTHS. 204. Cast of a Hemispherical Tumour, growing apparently from the frontal bone, which had been observed eight years, and had gradually increased in size for six years, when its growth ceased. From a man, aged 27 years, who was admitted into the Hospital on account of the tumour and epileptic fits, to which he had been subject for five years.—See Darker Ward Book, toI. ii, p. 219. 205. Model of part of a Tumour, probably composed of fibro-cellular and adipose tissue, which was removed from the upper and inner part of the thigh of a young woman. 206. Cast of a large Tumour of the upper extremity and side of the chest. 207. Model of a large medullary or soft cancerous Tumour, situated in the lower part of the neck, and covering parts of the shoulder and chest. 208. Model of an ulcerated and exuberant Cancer on the front wall of an Abdomen. 209. Cast of a portion of the Abdomen and Thigh of a man in whom melanotic tumours existed by the side of the external iliac and femoral vessels, and pro- jected in swellings that had the external characters of hernise. 210. A cast of the Foot, a portion of which is preserved in Series L, No. 3338, with a large tumour springing from the second toe. 211. Cast of a Foot with a Medullary Tumour springing from the cellular tissue of the sheath of the flexor tendons, where they pass around the inner ankle. A small tumour of about the size of a walnut had existed in this situation for twelve years,