SERIES XIV. —♦— DISEASES OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS, —♦— TUMOURS OF THE SUBMAXILLARY GLAND. 1824. A Cartilaginous Tumour of the submaxillary gland, removed from a girl, 15 years of age, in whom it had been growing four years. The tumour consists chiefly of hyaline cartilage, in which were found traces of acinous gland structure.—See President Ward Bool, vol. v, p. 39 ; and Pathological Soc. Trans., vol. xxviii, p. 228. 1825. A Tumour removed from the submaxillary region in front of the sub- maxillary gland, on the right side of a man aged 26 years. It had been growing about five years, and consists of fibrous tissue, through which are scattered masses of cartilage and bone. 1826. A Tumour removed from the right submaxillary gland of a man aged 24 years, in whom it had existed for nearly five years. It is composed chiefly of gland tissue with delicate portions of cartilage interspersed here and there throughout its substance. TUMOURS OF THE PAROTID GLAND. 1827. Section of a Tumour removed from over the parotid gland of an apparently healthy woman about 30 years old. It is nearly pyriform, measuring about three and a half inches in length, and three inches in its greatest breadth. Its upper half is composed of white, semi-transparent, and compact cartilage; its lower half of a pale, obscurely fibrous, soft substance; a few small portions of cartilas-e are seen imbedded in the softer substance. The tumour had grown very slowly and without pain. It was loosely connected with the surrounding parts. 1828. Half of a large Tumour, removed from over a parotid gland. The tumour formed a somewhat kidney-shaped mass, with its concavity resting on the parotid gland and adjacent structures. It measured about six inches by five. It is composed of large lobes, the partitions between which are in many places ossified. Its cut surface has a generally ochre-yellow, or fawn-colour, varied with paler tints, and with small nodules of cartilage and small grains of bone imbedded in it. Its substance is very firm, hardly compressible, but easily rending or breaking. A few small cysts lie scattered in it, and a large cyst, filled with fluid, was connected with a part of the tumour not shown here. xxxv. 83 The patient was a woman 65 years old. The tumour had heen slowly increasing for thirty- three years ; and within the last year the skin over it had ulcerated, allowing a portion of it to protrude. It reached from just below the ear to the lower part of the neck, overhanging the