80 DISEASES OF BONES. (In Case O.) aspect of a naavus. This condition existed from the birth of the child, and extended over the left side of the head and face and the left arm and shoulder. L 54 Presented by William Kingdon, Esq. BONES VARIOUSLY ALTERED BY THE GROWTH OF TUMOURS. 544. Part of the Skull of a man about 40 years old, who had a large malignant tumour of the face. The tumour appears to have originated at the nasal process of the left superior maxillary bone and at the left nasal bone, upon which there is a projecting growth of processes and plates of bone. The tumour, extending from this centre, produced absorption of the inner and lower part of the left orbit, the inner and anterior part of the right orbit, the septum of the nose, the turbinated bones, and the middle and posterior parts of the palate. To a slight degree also it destroyed the left cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and the adjacent part of the upper wall of the orbit. At nearly all the parts of the bones upon which the tumour encroached, there is a thin everted border of bone. *• 225 545. Portion of the Cranium of a young person. A growth of short, vertically- placed, osseous fibres and lamella; has taken place on a large extent of both the external and internal surfaces of the cranium. They probably formed the basis of an ossifying tumour. The bone is completely perforated by many minute apertures. L *^ 546. Portion of the posterior and upper part of a Skull, with the subjacent Dura Mater. There is a large aperture formed by ulceration through the skull and the dura mater, both -above and below the tentorium cerebelli. The edges of the ulcer, both in the bone and in. the dura mater, are covered by granulations. 6. 57 From a woman 50 years old. The disease commenced with what was regarded as carcinoma of the scalp, which, having passed into the stage of ulceration, slowly spread through the skull and dura mater to the brain. 547. Frontal Bone, with the subjacent Dura Mater. Several soft medullary tumours have been formed on the external surface of the dura mater. Many of them are embedded in the skull; and one, of large size, having produced the complete absorption of the bone, has passed to the outside of the skull, where it is connected with a similar large mass between the bone and the pericranium. The bone itself is of very dense texture. 6. 58 548. A Skull-Cap, in which there are numerous oval, rough-edged apertures. Some extend through both tables; some are in the outer, others in the inner table alone. There has also been extensive destruction by ulceration of the frontal bone. The portions of bone between the apertures are healthy. a. 64 It is most probable that these changes were consequent on the growth of tumours. (In Case Gr.) 549. A Skull-Cap, in which are many large ulcerated holes, occasioned by tumours originating in the dura mater. As in the preceding specimen the edges of the holes are abrupt, rough, and sharp, and the loss of substance in the diploe is a little greater than in either of the tables. Ulceration has also in one situation commenced on the exterior of the frontal bone. The grooves for the meningeal arteries, which were doubtless enlarged for the supply of blood to the tumours, are very deep, though the skull is not thickened nor otherwise diseased, except in the parts involved by the tumours. a. 74