560 PATHOLOGICAL MICROSCOPIC SPECIMENS. are covered by a thin layer of epithelium, the lower strata of which are columnar. From Specimen No. 3323. EPITHELIOMATA. 172. A Warty Growth, removed from the hack of the hand of an old lady. The cuticle is only slightly thickened, but there is a very decided growth of the inter- papillary processes of the rete Malpighii in the form of columns, the centres of which contain rounded masses of cornified epithelium (cell-nests), in some cases seen to be continuous with the cornified epithelium on the surface of the wart. 173. Section of a Warty Growth from the Perineum. The microscope shows in addition to an increased thickness of the cuticle, an ingrowth from the deep stratum of the rete Malpighii in the form of down-dipping papillary processes, containing in places " cell-nests." It appears to be a wart in a state of transi- tion to epithelioma ; a condition seen also in the preceding specimen. The case is described by Mr. Eve, in a paper " On the Relation between Irritation and Epithelioma."—British Medical Journal, April 2nd, 1881. From Specimen No. 3324. 174. Section through part of an Epithelioma of the Heel. At the' margin of the growth papillary prolongations of the rete Malpighii extend downwards into the corium; and towards its centre this ingrowth is much more considerable ; the cuticle (stained with picro-carmine) is here much thickened, and is con- tinued downwards into the growth as large, irregularly branched columns of cornified epithelium, surrounded by a layer of small epithelial cells, resembling those of the rete Malpighii. 175. Section of another portion of the same growth taken from the extreme margin. The epithelioma grew from a corn, which had existed some years. The case is described in the same paper with the preceding, No. 174. From Specimen No. 3325. 176. A section of an Epithelioma of the Tongue taken parallel to the surface. The ingrowing columns of epithelium are cut across, and have the appearance of tubes owing to the falling out of the cornified epithelium in their centres. From the same specimen as No. 18. ANGIOMA. 177. Section through various parts of the Pinna of an Ear affected with arterial angioma, the vessels of which are injected. A dense network of minute anas- tomosing capillaries extends throughout most of the sections, and large sinus- like vessels and smaller arterioles are also cut across. The walls of the latter are composed of layers of condensed connective tissue; and the capillary walls of a single layer of endothelium. The vessels are imbedded in a matrix of filamentous connective tissue, containing many round and some spindle-shaped nuclei. 178. Section of the skin of the Pinna from the same specimen. The network of capillaries extends into the corium; and the interpapillary processes of the rete Malpighii are elongated, and in some places a very distinct branched ingrowth of epithelium is observed. From Specimen No. 3345. URINARY AND OTHER INORGANIC DEPOSITS. 179. Sheaf-shaped crystals of Oxalate of Soda.