DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. 157 1064. Section of a Spine from the fifth dorsal to the second lumbar vertebra, exhibiting the effects of tubercular disease in the bodies of the vertebras. In the bodyof nearly every vertebra there are one or more small, spherical, and exactly circumscribed cavities, which were filled with pus, or with a mixture of pus and tubercular matter. The cavities measure from one-eighth to one-half of an inch in diameter, and are nearly all lined with a thin layer of false membrane ; the bone around them is healthy, or in some parts slightly consoli- dated. The ligament between the bodies of the tenth and eleventh dorsal vertebras is softened and in great part removed, as if by ulceration. The adjoining parts of the bodies of the same vertebrae are also ulcerated, and by the approximation of their anterior borders have produced a slight angular cur- vature of the spine: the parts of these vertebrae adjacent to the ulceration are solid, hard, and yellow. Most of the vertebras also are ulcerated on their anterior surfaces, and their periosteum is raised from these parts by the collec- tion of purulent matter beneath it. iv. 43 1065. Part of the other section of the same Spine after maceration. It shows more clearly the generally light and dry texture of the vertebra?, and the con- solidation of a very thin layer of the cancellous tissue around the cavities. Here, also, many cavities are shown at and near the exterior of the vertebras. iv. 44 The patient was a labourer, 26 years old. Weakness and pain in the back had disabled him from work for eight months. Slight angular curvature of the spine existed in its lower dorsal region, and here it was painful on pressure, and during movements of the body. No paralysis existed. Through exposure to cold, acute pleuro-pneumonia ensued while he was under treatment, and proved quickly fatal. 1066. Section of a Spine, exhibiting rarefactive ostitis of the bodies of three lumbar vertebras, with caries of the posterior part of the body of the lower. All the other vertebras of this spine were similarly altered. iv. 18 1067. Section of a Spine, in which the bodies of two of the lower dorsal vertebras are nearly destroyed by ulceration. Their remains are soft and crumbling, and the intervertebral substance is removed. There is a deposit of caseous matter around the diseased bone, elevating the periosteum of the bodies of the vertebras and the pleura costalis to a considerable extent above and below the chief seat of the disease. jy. 16 1068. Five Dorsal Vertebras, exhibiting superficial ulceration on the anterior surfaces of their bodies : the ulceration was connected with psoas abscess. A. 80 (In Case C.) 1069. Portion of a Spine, in which the bodies of the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebras are almost completely destroyed by ulceration. The anterior surface of the bodies of three contiguous vertebras is also carious. The diseased bone is rough and uneven, but retains its natural hardness. There is no angular curvature. D 24 (In CaseC.) 1070. Portion of a Spine, exhibiting Caries with abscess in the cancellous texture of the body of one of the vertebras. There is a considerable deposit of new bone upon the vertebras around the diseased bone. Between two of the bodies the fibro-cartilage has been removed, and they are united by bono. A 115 (In Case C.) Vide Nos. 1094, 1095, 1097, 1098, 1100, 1101, 1105, 1110, 1113.