575 CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. thus illustrating that other than hair-follicular structures are involved in the disorder. The greatest benefit resulted from the local use of pitch. Vide St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. viii, p. 49, 1872. A drawing of the case is preserved, No. 419. 158. Cast of an Arm affected with Eczema. 159. Eczema Papilliforme (E. papillomatosnm, B. Wilson.) This cast was taken from a woman, aged 42, the subject of polysarcia. Her girth was five feet two inches round the waist, and her weight eighteen stones. The affection began fifteen months previously, on the right leg, in the form of small spots ; blisters subsequently appeared, and a discharge commenced. Two months ago, the left leg was similarly affected for a time, but less severely. It is now quite free from the disease. There are numerous papilliform, fungating masses scattered over the surface, and foetid pus is produced in considerable quantity. The feet and ankles are cedematous. The parts are painful, with much burning and itching sensations. This cast was taken after a mass of scab, and purulent crust had been removed by diligent poulticing. The disease appears to be most frequent upon the lower extremities, and to be mainly dependent upon venous stasis and lowered vitality of tissues. 160. Cast of the Back of a child affected with Urticaria persistans vel pig- mentosa. 161. Cast of an Arm, showing extensive patches of Psoriasis (Psoriasis guttata). 162. Cast of a Leg, showing on its anterior surface several patches of Psoriasis covered with thick pyramidal crusts. 163. Casts of the Dorsal and Palmar surfaces of an Arm affected with Xan- thelasma. Vide also drawings of the eyelids from the same patient, Nos. 432, 433. 164. Tubercular Syphilide (Syphilitic Lupus). From a single woman, aged 22. There were patches also upon the back, between the shoulders. The colour was peculiarly vivid. There was no pain. The cicatrix-band in the forehead led, in common with some other points, to an erroneous early diagnosis of a lupoid affection. The patient confessed ultimately to a history of syphilis a year previously. There were no concomitants of syphilis. The frontal cicatrix was the result of an injury in childhood. 165. Same case after treatment. Vide St. Bartholomew1 s Hospital Reports, vol. viii, p. 58, 1872. 166. Cast of the Face of a woman showing the eruption produced by the adminis- tration of iodide of potassium. 167. Cast of the Face of a man, showing an eruption produced by the adminis- tration of iodide of potassium. On the extremity of the nose, and on the left cheek the pustules have coalesced and formed a thick yellow crust. 168. Cast of an Arm showing the Eruption produced by iodide of potassium. 169. Model of part of a Leg, with an Ulcer of the Integuments associated with a varicose condition of the veins. 170. Lupus Hypertrophicus of the Face. Cast taken from a young woman. 171. Fibroma Molluscum (M. fibrosum, M. simplex, M. non-contagiosum). Cast taken from a labouring man, aged 35, who had lived in London (Holloway) all his life, and who had suffered from these growths for twenty-eight years. He