2 GO DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE the wound at the time of the operation. Death occurred on the following day from exhaustion. XIV- 85 1683. Several portions of fibrinous inflammatory Lymph, ejected from the bron- chial tubes, to the shapes of which they were exactly moulded. xiv. t>5 1684. Ramified and tubular portions of Lymph, which were expectorated. Their form and size indicate that they had been lodged in the bronchial tubes. xiv. 29 Presented by Dr. Pardoe. 1685. Fibrinous casts from the Bronchial Tubes of a young woman, aged 19. xiv. 77 Vide Series X, Nos. 1616, 1618. ULCERATION AND PERFORATION. 1686. The bifurcation of a Trachea, within the angle of which there are several bronchial glands enlarged, and containing deposits of tubercular matter, t rom the largest some of the tubercular matter, softened and liquefied, has been dis- charged through an ulcerated aperture into the right bronchus. xiv. oo 1687. The bifurcation of a Trachea, showing a large oval opening at the outer angle of its right branch, through which a tubercular bronchial lymphatic gland discharged itself. XIV" The patient, a woman, died with advanced phthisis and renal disease. The case is related in the St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. v, p. £17. 1688. Portion of the left Lung of a girl, with a large hydatid cyst. The cyst had existed in the pleural cavity, and evacuated its contents through the bronchial tubes a fortnight before the patient's death. There were several ragged aper- tures on the surface of the compressed ltmg; a piece of whalebone introduced into one of these communicates directly with a bronchus. xiv. o/ The patient, 23 years old, had been troubled for a year and a half before death with cough and occasional haJoptysis, 'and died with symptoms of pneumothorax, ^^^^ a fortnight before death, and immediately after coughing up a large quantity of watery fluid. TWp was a lanre hydatid cyst, containing echinococci, m the liver of the same subject, ^rfllff^ Kirkes, in the Medical Times, 1851, vol. xxin, p. 10 5 also m the St. Bartholomeio1 s Hospital Reports, vol. iv, p. 83. Rupture of Bronchus, vide No. 13G7, Series VII. DISEASES OE THE LUNGS. VESICULAR AND STJBPKETJRAL EMPHYSEMA. 1689 Dried Sections of a Lung, affected with Emphysema in an extreme degree. The lung is greatly enlarged; none of the vesicular structure remains but m its place are large and irregular spaces with imperfect partitions.formed by the remains of the thin layers and bands of fibro-cellular tissue winch separated the PuTmouary lobules. The whole of the right lung was m the same state The left luno- was emphysematous in a less degree. rT'JOi The pa°tient was a middle-aged man, of whose history nothing was known, except that he died with hepatic disease, after haying frequently passed gall-stones. 1690 Portion of a Lung, with Tubercles, and enlargement of the air-cells. In some parts the air-cells appear simply enlarged, m others small round cavities ^formed by the coalescence of groups of cells. A number of such cavities are situated immediately beneath the pleura. 11 1691 Dried Sections of a Lung affected with a much less degree of Emphysema. The air-cells are regular in their form and arrangement, but larger than is xiv. ol natural. 1692 Portion of a Lung, dried, with a large membranous sac on its surface, the cotequence of distension of the pleura by air effused under xt from ruptured axr^ cells.