GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 487 TUMOURS AND OTHER ALLIED MORBID GROWTHS. FATTY TUMOURS—LIPOMATA. 3240. A Fatty Tumour, removed from the subcutaneous tissue of an arm. Though lobed and irregular in shape, it has an almost exact bilateral symmetry. In structure it may be taken as a type of its kind. xxxv. 67 3241. A Fatty Tumour, of elongated oval form, which was removed from the posterior part of the trunk of a boy 10 years old. xxxv. 32 It was situated beneath the part of the integuments upon which the spring of a truss had pressed. 3242. Two Fatty Tumours of equal size, which were symmetrically placed on the front of either shoulder of a middle-aged woman. 3243. A round, pendulous Fatty Tumour, covered in great part by healthy skin, which was removed from below the buttock of a healthy middle-aged man. Its tissue is variously lobulated; the cellular partitions of its lobes are tougher than is usual; its base extended deeply and widely in the subcutaneous adipose tissue. xxxv. 43 3244. A large Fatty Tumour, removed by operation from the axilla of a man, aged 37. He had discovered its presence only a few days previously. It caused little or no inconvenience to the movements of the arm. xxxv. 120 3245. A Fatty Tumour, removed from the subcutaneous tissue of the ball of a thumb. It has the ordinary structure and texture of this form of tumour, and was loosely connected with the adjacent parts. It is of spheroidal shape, and about an inch and a half in diameter. xxxv. 78 3246. A lobulated Fatty Tumour, removed from the space between the first and second metacarpal bones of a man's hand. xxxv. 115 3247. A Fatty Tumour, removed from the palm of a hand, in which it was very loosely connected with the surrounding tissues. It is very elongated, slender, and lobed ; and, along one of its borders, a thin layer of connective tissue is attached, like a little mesentery. xxxv. 68 3248. A Pedunculated Fatty Tumour, which was removed from over the anterior superior spine of the ilium. From a subject brought to the Hospital for dissection. Obtained by W. J. VYalsham, Esq. 3249. A Fatty Tumour, which had descended from the abdomen into the inguinal canal of a woman. It lay in a peritoneal sac and was connected with the interior of the abdomen by a thin band or pedicle of fibrous tissue, but with what structure is uncertain. Slight symptoms of strangulation were pro- duced, in consequence of which herniotomy was performed ; the sac was opened and the tumour removed. The patient made a good recovery. The tumour is composed of adipose and nucleated fibrous and granular connective tissue. It was pi-obably derived from the omentum.—See Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. iii, 1875. Presented by H. T. Butlin, Esq. 3250. Sections of a large mass of substance removed after death from a man's groin. It is coarsely laminated, yellow, and like firm fat. A tendon, with separated fasciculi, passes through it. xxxv. 106