INJURIES OF JOINTS, DISLOCATIONS, ETC. 149 of the ulna appears to rest on a prominence of bone, extending from the pos- terior surface of the trochlea of the humerus. The head of the radius is con- fined in the place which it now occupies by a thick fibrous cord, extending from its upper surface to a process of bone connected with the margin of the humerus just above the outer condyle. I1L 33 1029. An old dislocation of the Elbow-Joint. The radius and ulna are dislocated backwards and slightly outwards: they are bound firmly to the humerus by a large amount of fibrous tissue, which, however, permits slight movement of the bones on each other. The articular surfaces are completely absorbed and covered by fibrous tissue. The outer part of the articular surface of the humerus is extensively absorbed in correspondence with the outward displacement of the bones of the forearm ; possibly a fracture occurred in this situation, as a large mass of bone can be felt in the fibrous tissue over the extremity of the ulna. The upper end of the radius is firmly fixed to the ulna and lies partly on a smooth surface of the humerus, but no rotatory movement is possible. ^ There is a recent extensively comminuted fracture of the radius. The parts were removed by amputation from a man aged 30, whose arm was crushed by a wheel passing over it.—See Abernethy Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 7. RADIUS FORWARDS. 1030. An Elbow-Joint, in which there has been fracture and dislocation. The radius and ulna are broken about two inches below the joint: and their frac- tured ends, not having united by bone, are connected by new capsules which have formed around them. The head of the radius is dislocated upwards and forwards in front of the humerus. ill. 5 1031. The Bones of an Elbow-Joint. The articular surfaces of the humerus and ulna are altered in form; that of the humerus, being narrower, and that of the ulna, deeper than is natural: but there is no appearance of their having been fractured. The radius was found dislocated from the outer condyle, and lying upon the front of the ulna. C. 37 (In Case H.) 1032. The Bones of an Elbow-Joint, exhibiting the effects of dislocation and fracture, which occurred many years before death, and which were followed by long-continued inflammation of the bones. The head of the radius has been dislocated forwards. The shaft of the ulna has been broken a little below the olecranon. The head of the radius, mis-shapen, elongated, and flattened, appears to have rested and moved obliquely across the front and outer part of the lower end of the shaft of the humerus. A cavity is here formed on the humerus, into which the head of the radius fits; and their opposed surfaces are covered by hard, ivory-like, polished, and perforated bone. The fractured surfaces of the ulna, not uniting, have moved freely upon each other, the upper portion resting in a deep pit on the lower. All the bones are enlarged, and the radius and ulna are united by bone abundantly formed between them and upon their surfaces. c. 77 Presented by Dr. Hooper. (In Case H.) RADIUS BACKWARDS. 1033. An Elbow-Joint, in which the head of the radius was dislocated backwards. No reduction of the dislocated bone having been effected, it has become exten- sively united to the side of the ulna. There appears also to have been a fracture of the internal condyle. All the bones are atrophied. ni. 13