251 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. brane extending into the substance of the cricoid cartilage, which is partially ossified. Around the ulcer the mucous membrane is thickened and puckered. xxv. 8 From a woman 24 years old, who had had signs of laryngitis for a weei, and died suffocated by the closure of the glottis. 1626. A Larynx, with the Tongue. The mucous membrane covering the epi- glottis and the upper part of the larynx is thickened and superficially ulcerated. xxv. 14 From a negro, 24 years old, who had had elephantiasis for two years. He died with gangrene of the lungs, and the mucous membrane of the tongue, soft palate, epiglottis, and neighbouring parte was found ulcerated. SYPHILITIC ULCERATION. 1627. A Larynx and Trachea, with the base of the Tongue. The whole of the epiglottis, and part of the arytenoid cartilages with their connecting folds of membrane, have been removed by ulceration. xxv. 5 From a young woman who had long suffered from syphilis, for which she had taken large quantities of mercury. 1628. A Tongue, with part of a Larynx, in which a circumscribed irregular ulceration has destroyed the epiglottis, the right arytenoid cartilage, and the fold of mucous membrane connecting them. xxv. 24 1629. A Larynx, exhibiting considerable swelling of the right arytaeno-epiglotti- dean fold and the tissues above the right false vocal cord. Immediately beneath the right true vocal cord there is a slit-shaped ulcer, extending along nearly its whole length. The ulcer leads into a small, but deep cavity, containing debris. A similar, but smaller ulcer is seen immediately beneath it. xxv. 46 From a man, aged 42 years, who was admitted to the Hospital, suffering from considerable dyspnoea. He had had laryngeal symptoms for about three months. Tracheotomy was per- formed shortly after his admission, and he liyed three days after the operation. There was a history of primary syphilis seven years previously, and at the time he had gummatous syphilitic disease of the tongue. On post-mortem examination the rima glottidis was found completely closed by oedema of the cellular tissue about the right arytseno-epiglottidean fold, which formed a soft well-defined tumour about the size and shape of a cob-nut.—See Darker Ward Book, vol. ii, p. 63. 1630. The Larynx of a man, aged 50. He was admitted into the Hospital with loss of voice and other symptoms indicating disease of the larynx, the origin of which was referred to syphilis. He never complained of, or seemed to experience, any difficulty in swallowing. Death took place rather suddenly from softening of the brain. The larynx is laid open from behind, and the mucous membrane is seen to be thickened and indurated throughout. In different portions there is evidence of former ulceration. JSTo traces of the epiglottis are visible ; it appears to have been wholly destroyed, a slight ridge only marking its place of attachment. xxv. 39 Vide No. 1634. TUBERCULAR ULCERATION OF THE LARYNX. 1631. A Larynx from a man, aged 32, who died of phthisis. A superficial ulcer extends along the whole length of the free margin of both vocal cords. There is also an oblong superficial ulcer on the mucous membrane close to the posterior attachment of the right cord. The mucous membrane covering the larynx and epiglottis is injected, but otherwise healthy.—See Post Mortem Booh vol. vii p. 234. 1632. A Larynx with part of the Trachea, from a man in whom tracheotomy was performed two days before death. Upon the epiglottis, the arytenoid cartilages and the chordse vocales, the mucous membrane is thickened, ulcerated, and granular. Within the trachea, and especially upon its posterior wall, there'is an