DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE INTESTINES. 1985. Portion of Colon from a case of dysentery : several of the ulcers have per- forated the walls of the intestinal canal. 121 From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1986 A Sigmoid Flexure, from a case of chronic dysentery. It shows the worm-eaten appearance of the mucous lining after the healing of the ulcers, as well as the narrowing of the canal from the contraction of the cicatrices. 5 xvi. 126 1987. Contraction, with extreme narrowing of the intestinal canal, of a portion of Colon, consequent upon the healing and cicatrisation of a dysenteric ulcer. ^ From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. ENTERIC FEVER. 1988. Portion of small and large intestine, from a girl, aged 12, who died from enteric fever, on about the twelfth day of the disease. The jejunum was natural. Nearly all the solitary and lymphatic follicles of the ileum were found more or less swollen, the swelling becoming more and more marked towards the ileo-csecal valve. Near the valve the swelling is extreme, but there is no trace of ulceration. The mesenteric glands were much swollen. The large intestine was natural.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. iii, p. 99, 1872. 1989. The lower portion of the Ileum with the ileo-caecal valve. The mucous membrane is thickly covered by characteristic typhoid ulcers, on many of which the slough is still attached. Ulcers extend along the whole length of the margin of the valve. From a young man, who died on the tenth day of enteric*fever, which he took while in the Hospital. 1990. The lower portion of an Ileum, with part of a Colon, from a patient who died in an early stage of the fever. Patches of Peyer's glands at the end of the ileum, and many of the solitary glands in the colon, are much enlarged, soft, and prominent above the surrounding surface of the mucous membrane ; but there is scarcely any appearance of ulceration or sloughing. The mesenteric glands also are enlarged and soft. xvi. 87 1991. Ulceration of Peyer's patches and Solitary Glands associated with enteric fever. The ulcers are small, but deeply excavated, and are surrounded by thickened tissue. 115 From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1992. A somewhat similar specimen, in which, however, the ulcers are less excavated, and the thickening around less considerable. 116 From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1993. The lower part of an Ileum, exhibiting enlargement and elevation of the patches of Peyer's glands, with sloughing and ulceration of small portions of their surface. Some of the sloughs, incompletely detached, are infiltrated with faecal matter. The portions of intestine intervening between the patches appear healthy. XYI 20 From a patient who died with enteric fever. 1994. A Caecum with a portion of the Ileum, exhibiting enlargement and sloughing of the Peyer's and Solitary Glands. Many of the glands are simply enlarged ; others have sloughed with portions of the tissue in which they lie •