DISEASES OF BOXES. 76 ference. Its larger and outer part consists of medullary substance; the smaller and deeper, of a mixture of medullary substance and bone. The head of the femur is the only portion of the bone retaining its healthy structure. The morbid osseous substance is fragile, light, spongy, and cancellous; but the form of the cancellous spaces differs materially from that observed in healthy bone. L 170 from a girl aged 11 years. 522. Sections of the Femur last described. L 1*1 Presented by Joseph Sargent, Esq. 523. Section of the head and upper part of the shaft of a Tibia, and of an Osteoid Growth around and within it. A dense osseous substance, as hard as ivory, and dull white, like chalk or pumice-stone, occupies the place of the cancellous texture, and extends some way down the medullary canal. The tumour around the bone consists in part of a similar osseous substance, and in part of a soft substance, spongy and cellular in some situations, and medullary in others. A portion of the periosteum is separated, to show that the morbid growth has originated beneath the membrane from the surface of the bone itself. The smaller tumour connected with one side of the morbid mass occupied the situation of the popliteal lymphatic glands, and consists throughout of bone, partly ivory- like and partly spongy. L 1^ Microscopic examination showed the tumour to be an Osteo-sarcoma. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 40; and a drawing, A. 3. 524. The other half of the Tibia and Tumour last described, from which the soft matter has been removed by maceration. i. 140 525. Section of the Stump of the Femur from the same patient as the two preceding specimens. The extremity of the bone is covered by skin. Within the medullary cavity are distinct morbid deposits, consisting partly of osseous, and partly of soft, matter. 141 The patient was a middle-aged woman in whom the disease made slow progress for sixteen years, and gave little or no pain till three months before the amputation of the limb. She died eight weeks after the amputation with similar osteoid growths in the inguinal glands and lungs, and with wart-like tumours scattered over the diaphragm. 526. Sections of a Tibia, exhibiting a deposit of dense and very hard osseous substance, both upon the outer surface and within the medullary tissue of the upper two-thirds of its shaft. The original walls may be recognized on the surface of each section, but they are continuous with, the tumour. A circum- scribed space at the upper part of the shaft is covered by irregular plates of bone set vertically upon it. It is probable that on this space there was a softer portion of an osteoid tumour (osteo-sarcoma), which has been removed by maceration. L ^4 527. A Section of the upper end of a Fibula, and of a Tumour which is connected with it. The tumour consists of a mixture of bone and a softer fibrous-looking substance, and appears to have arisen from the periosteum. i. 60 528. Sections of a Fibula, upon the external surface of which are several Osteoid Tumours masses of compact wbite osseous substance, the outer surfaces of which have a fasciculated and finely fibrous aspect, like the surface of pumice- stono. Around these, the walls of the bone are in parts superficially ulcerated, and in parts thinly covered by new bone. The medullary canal is partially obliterated by a similar substance. I. 61 TUMOURS CONTAINING CYSTS. 529. Portion of a Femur, of which the lower extremity is expanded into a large