GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 484 are rough and hard. The whole texture of both maxillary and palate bones is light, dry, and smooth-surfaced. The hard palate is, except in the median line, so thinned that it is transparent and flexible. The circumference of the lower jaw is in every way more extensive than that of the upper jaw : the surfaces of the rami and angles present scarcely a trace of the attachment of the muscles: the rami are placed obliquely, and are at an obtuse angle with the body of the jaw. There appears to be also a general diminution in thickness and weight, and probably also in the size, of all the bones of the skull; and there is a pecu- liar flattening and shelving of the frontal and parietal bones on either side of the coronal and sagital sutures. The frontal suture remains ununited, and the other sutures are open, with the exception of the middle of the sagital. 3218. Portion of a Cerebrum, with the Optic Nerves, and some remains of the Left Eye. The eye is contracted, in consequence of the escape of its humours, and the left optic nerve is atrophied from disuse. The diminution m size extends from the retina to the optic commissure. Between the commissure and the optic thalamus, the nerve on the right side is smaller than that on the left, and the right thalamus is smaller than the left. vm. 6 From a person who had been blind in the left eye, from childhood, in consequence of small- pox. FATTY DEGENERATION. 3219. Dissection of a Left Leg and Eoot, showing fatty degeneration of the muscles and talipes equino-varus as the result of paralysis. The muscles pre- serve their normal form and size, but are completely converted into fat; an indistinct striation is still visible. The change affects uniformly all the muscles of the le<r, but a small patch of normal muscular fibre is m places seen on the surface of the gastrocnemii. The foot is immovably fixed in a position ot talipes equino-varus, and the plantar fascia is contracted. From a girl, aged 17 years, both of whose legs became paralysed when she was three years old The left lei ™s smaller than the right, cold and blue, and was so cumbersome to her, that amputation was thought advisable.-See Sitwell Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 93. See also a similar specimen, No. 13 in Series I. 3220. A section of a Liver, showing fatty infiltration. The section is smooth and mottled of a yellowish-white colour, owing to the infiltration of the cells at the periphery of the lobules with fat. CALCAREOUS DEGENERATION. 3221 A Femoral Artery, converted into a rigid tube, by an almost uniform deposit of calcareous matter in its wall. The appearance of transverse striation is due to the arrangement of the muscular fibres of the middle coat, m which the deposition takes place. The other arteries from the same leg are in No. 1435, Series VIII. 3221a. Bronchial Glands, enlarged and thickly infiltrated with calcareous matter. From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 3222 A verv large, completely calcified Uterine Fibroid, which weighed 2 lbs. 4oz. It was found loose in the abdominal cavity, and had produced no symptoms during life.—See Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. xxxn, 1881. Presented by Dr. Norman Moore.