DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. substance. VI oq posed of a firm substance; it was connected with the brain only by the pia mater and arachnoid membrane. V1, ^3 A microscopic section is preserved, No. 107. 2504. Portions of the Base of a Skull, with a diseased Pituitary Gland and other adjacent parts. The natural substance of the pituitary gland is lost in a mass of firm, pale, semi-transparent, granular, medullary substance, which extends from the gland into both the left and the right cavernous sinuses. In the left cavernous sinus, the several nerves are lost in the morbid growth, which also protrudes on the inner side of the left Casserian ganglion, and somewhat com- presses it. On the right side the nerves are in contact with the surface of the tumour. TI- 73 The patient, a man, 47 years old, had, for about fire months before death, paralysis of the muscles of the left eye-ball and of the left levator palpebrse, with dilation of the pupil, and im- pairment, but not loss, of vision. In the last month of his life he had similar paralysis on the left side. He died with new growths in the salivary and cervical lymphatic glands, and with some apparently cancerous masses in the lungs. The case is published in a Clinical Lecture by Dr. Greorge Burrows, in the London Medical Gazette, vol. xxxvi, p. 485. London, July 18, 1845. 2505. Pituitary Body, considerably enlarged and converted into a uniform, firm, white substance. vi. 30 CYSTS. 2506. Portions of granular Adipose Matter, mixed with a few short, stiff, pale hairs, which were found in a dermoid cyst beneath the pia mater covering the inferior surface of the cerebellum. vi. 56 From a stout, strong man, 45 years old, who died very suddenly, while in apparently good general health. ENTOZOA IN THE BRAIN. 2507. The right half of a Cerebrum. In its centre there is a cavity, in which a large hydatid was contained. The cavity is lined by a thin false membrane. It is much reduced in size by the contraction of the brain; the apertures in it were made after death. The adjacent cerebral substance is healthy. vi. 60 2508. The Hydatid Cyst from the preceding brain. When full, it con- tained between five and six ounces of fluid. VI. 61 From a girl, 5 years old, in whom signs of cerebral disease had existed for a year before death. For the last three months of her life, she had partial paralysis of motion on the left side. The substance of the brain around the hydatid, as well as in every other part, was healthy. 2509. The Brain of a giddy sheep, with part of its Skull, and a Hydatid (Ccenurus cerebralis), which was contained in the left cerebral hemisphere. The greater part of the substance of the hemisphere has been removed or dis- tended around the hydatid, and the whole thickness of the superjacent portion of the skull is in several places absorbed. yi. 69 2510. A Hydatid (Ccenurus cerebralis) from the Brain of a giddy sheep. Minute white pearly bodies are attached in groups to many parts of the interior of the cyst. VL 7q DISEASES OP THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN AND CHOROID PLEXUSES. 2511. Choroid Plexuses, in which there are small cysts containing a soft