TENDONS AND BURS7E. 175 INJURIES TO TENDONS. EVULSION. 1180. The end of the Tail of a Rat, with numerous long slender tendons attached to it, which it is probable were pulled out with small pieces of their muscles, in the attempts which the animal made to escape, when its tail had been caught in a trap. v. 3 1181. The last Phalanx of the Right Thumb surrounded by its natural coverings, and retaining, attached to it, the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, which, bringing with it some of its muscular fibres, was torn out of a boy's arm, the extremity of the thumb having been caught in a machine. At the same time the bones of the fore-arm were bent, and the humerus fractured about its middle third. The patient recovered without an unfavourable symptom.—See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. viii, p. 509. v. 26 1182. The Tendon, with part of the muscular fibres of the Flexor Longus Pollicis, which were torn out from a man's arm. V. 4 The patient was a butcher, whose thumb was caught by a meat-hook, on which he remained suspended till the muscle gave way. He recovered quickly from the injury. 1183. Parts of the bones of a Middle Finger, with the tendon and some of the muscular fibres of their portion of the extensor muscle, dried. v. 5 They were torn away from their connections by the explosion of a gun while the person's hand was resting on the muzzle. Presented by Henry Bateman, Esq. 1184. A Fore-Finger, with the accompanying tendons, which was torn off from the hand of a man by a blow from a ramrod, which had been discharged from a gun. 1185. A Finger, with one of its tendons torn off by an injury, of which a record was not made. DISPLACEMENT OF TENDONS FROM THEIR GROOVES. 1186. The upper portion of a Humerus, with part of the long tendon of the Biceps muscle. The tendon has passed out of its groove and is confined to.the adjacent part of the humerus by a tough membranous sheath, formed appa- rently by condensed fibro-cellular tissue. The tendon was attached to the margin of the glenoid cavity in the usual manner. v. 9 PROCESS OF REPAIR OF TENDONS AFTER SUBCUTANEOUS DIVISION. REPAIR IN ANIMALS. The following Specimens were prepared by Sir J. Paget and Mr. Savory. U8.7: ofmia y°™g rabbit killed twenty hours after the division of the Tendo Achillis The upper end of the tendon has retracted above three-quarters of an inch and is slightly connected to the lower portion by a soft gelatinous blood- speckled material effused between them within the sheath. 1188. Leg of a rabbit killed sixty-eight hours after division of the Tendo Achillis 1 he ends of the divided tendon are about three-quarters of an inch apart, and the interval between them is filled by a firm clot of blood. 1189. Leg of a rabbit killed six days after division of the Tendo Achillis The skm alone has been removed; it was more firmly adherent than usual to the parts beneath; and here and there were small clots, the remains of minute