459 DISEASES OF THE OVUM AND ITS MEMBRANES. whole inner surface of the ovum. The umbilical cord is small and attached to one of the projections. The embryo is nearl y two inches long, and well formed ; but all its parts appear united, as if by thickening of its amnionic covering, or as if a layer of false membrane had been thinly deposited and organised on its surface, so as to envelope it with a nearly smooth covering. XXXIII. 3 3046. An Ovum, which was expelled at an early period of gestation. The foetus, about three-quarters of an inch in length and well formed, is suspended by its umbilical cord, which appears to have been unnaturally infiltrated. The placenta is large and firm, and its inner surface is deeply lobed and nodulated : a section shows a similar lobulated arrangement within it. XXXIII. 1 3047. A thick layer of Membrane which was discharged spontaneously from the inner surface of a uterus. xxxn. 29 The patient was a -woman, 30 years old. She supposed herself pregnant, but no distinct parts of an ovum could be discovered in the substance discharged. Presented by Prothero Smith, Esq. 3048. A Placenta, which is unusually large, with the membranes. It was dis- charged six weeks from the period of menstruation. The foetus has been destroyed. DETACHMENT OF THE PLACENTA. 3049. A Foetus and its Placenta, at the seventh month of gestation. Profuse haemorrhage occurred two weeks before delivery. The presentation was natural, and delivery was easily effected. The placenta was quite healthy, and wholly attached to the uterus, but the membranes were partially separated from the .body of the placenta. To this the haemorrhage was due. The woman recovered slowly, nnd suffered from phlegmasia dolens. A subsequent pregnancy was followed by a second attack of phlegmasia dolens. RETAINED PLACENTA. 3050. A Placenta, which was retained, and expelled sixteen weeks after the foetus. During a part of this time the woman went about, following her ordi- nary occupation. The usual discharge ceased for some days, but haemorrhage subsequently occurred. ABORTION. 3051. A diseased Ovum, at the seventh or eighth week of utero-gestation, showing the early formation of a mole. The decidua is distinctly seen on the outer sur- face, and the amnion on the inner surface, of the mass. The thickness of the mass, which is in several parts nearly half an inch, is probably due to the extravasation of blood among the radicles of the chorion, as shown by the section of the lower part of the preparation. xxxm. 6 Presented by Dr. Rigby. 3052. A diseased Ovum, at the ninth or tenth week of utero-gestation. The decidua is reflected, but in other respects this ovum presents nearly the con- dition shown in the preceding preparation. The quantity of extravasated blood, however, is larger, and the mass has in consequence a distinctly lobulated form. XXXIII ? 3053. Portion of a diseased Ovum, with the Umbilical Vesicle. xxxiii. 4 It was expelled from a patient who thought herself in the sixth month of her pregnnncv but m whom no enlargement of the ulerus had taken place for several weeks before the abor tion. In twenty-four hours after the expulsion of this ovum, a dead fcetus, of about four months, with its membranes complete, was expelled ; showing that the parts preserved must have belonged to another foetus which had died at a much earlier period. Presented by Dr. Rigby.