518 URINARY CALCULI. 33. Section of a Calculus. Uric Acid; surrounded by Urate of Ammonia, which is probably mixed with Orate of Lime. 34. Sections of a Calculus. Uric Acid, surrounded by a layer of Urate of Ammonia, containing Phosphate and Oxalate of Lime. Removed after death from the bladder of a man who was supposed to have been cured by drinking lime-water. Two calculi were found in the bladder. 35. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus, Uric Acid: the remainder, Urate of Ammonia with a small quantity of Phosphate and Oxalate of Lime. From the bladder of a boy 4i years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Vincent. 36. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus, Uric Acid; coated by a thin layer of Urate of Ammonia, containing Phosphate and Oxalate of Lime. URIC ACID. OXALATE OF LIME. 37. Calculus composed of Uric Acid covered by Oxalate of Lime. 38. Sections of a Calculus of the kind commonly called the Hemp-Seed Calculus. Nucleus, Uric Acid, covered by a thin smooth layer of Oxalate of Lime. 38a. A Calculus having a small nucleus composed of Uric Acid, surrounded by a thick layer of Oxalate of Lime. URIC ACID. EARTHY PHOSPHATES. 39. Sections of a very large Calculus. Uric Acid coated by the Phosphates. Oxalate of Lime is diffused through some parts of the latter. From the bladder of a man 60 years old. Lithotomy by Sir Wm. Lawrence. 40. A Calculus. Uric Acid, surrounded by the mixed Phosphates. A large portion of the exterior has been removed. 41. Section of a Calculus. External layer, Phosphates, slightly fusible ; Nucleus, Uric Acid, containing, apparently, some veins of Urate of Ammonia. Presented by H. Earle, Esq. 42. Six rough granulated Calculi. Nucleus, Uric Acid; externally, fusible phosphates. Analysis by Dr. Hue. From the bladder of a man. 43. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus, impure Uric Acid; exterior, the mixed Phosphates. From the bladder of a man 21 years old, who had suffered with symptoms of stone from childhood. Lithotomy by Sir Wm. Lawrence. 44. Section of a Calculus. Nucleus, Uric Acid ; with a coating of the Phosphates. 45. Sections of a Calculus. Central portion, an impure Uric Acid; the deeper coloured part is of a more pure Uric Acid, while the external part consists of the Phosphates with some Oxalate and Carbonate of Lime. Analysis by Dr. Prout. From the bladder of a boy 14 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Stanley.