INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 137 She was kept in bed for about a week, and then was allowed to get up and sit in a chair She was now able, by holding by the side of the bed, to move about tbe ward, but gradually becoming weaker, she died exhausted, five weeks after the fall. 951. A Section through the tipper part of a Femur, showing a fracture at the base of the neck, which is driven into the upper part of the shaft. The neck has undergone absorption to a considerable extent, and the cavity in which it lies has probably been enlarged by the same process. ni. 77 From a woman 85 years old. The fracture occurred three years before death. Presented by William Radnor, Esq. 952. Portion of a Femur, showing a fracture of its neck. The upper portion of the shaft is extensively comminuted. The trochanters are entire. III. 16 953. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting a fracture through its neck, and another completely detaching the great trochanter from the shaft. Two distinct lines of fracture may be traced," one across the base of the neck, the other passing obliquely through the shaft just in front of, and below the trochanter major, and through the trochanter minor. The base of the neck is fixed between the fragments, but not tightly. HI. 14 954. Portion of a Femur, showing, as in the last described, a fracture through the base of the neck, and separating the greater portion of the trochanter major and the trochanter minor from the shaft. One line of fracture passes vertically through the base of the neck ; the other extends vertically through the middle of the great trochanter and for about three inches down the shaft, and through the trochanter minor. The head is impacted between the fragments, and osseous union has taken place in the lower part of the vertical fracture. in. 15 955. Portions of a Femur in which there has been fracture through the base of the neck, and, apparently, a fracture through the trochanter major. The base of the neck has been driven into the cancellous tissue between the trochanters, in which situation it is firmly united by bone and fibrous tissue. The fracture of the trochanter has been firmly united by bone. ni. 12 956. Portion of a Femur, in which fracture of the neck and of the trochanter major occurred six weeks before death. The direction of the fracture is still evident; it extended through the base of the neck, and through the base of the trochanter major, nearly detaching this process from the rest of the bone. The head and neck were forced downwards and impacted between the trochanters. The several parts of the bone thus brought into contact are united so firmly that they could not be moved upon each other. in. 10 957. Specimen of impacted fracture of the neck of the Femur. n. 94 From an old man, aged 84 years, who lived for two years after the injury. The parts are well united. Presented by Tory Hester, Esq. 958. Upper portion of a Femur, showing an extra-capsular fracture of the neck, with no evident displacement. The attachment of the ilio-femoral ligament in front of the trochanter major is not torn through. There was no appreciable shortening of the limb, and slight eversion only was observed during life, probably owing to the condition of the above-mentioned ligament—See Colston, Ward Book, vol. v, p. 348. 959. Portion of a Femur, in which there has been a fracture extending throuo-h the base of the neck, and very obliquely through the toochanter major, which is split into two portions separated to some distance from each other. The