503 CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. 7. Cast of a Lower Extremity. The femur was surrounded by the large tumour, of which part is preserved in Series I, No. 423. 8. Model of a Tumour originating in the antrum. 9. Cast of the Head of a child, with a tumour of the face, produced by a morbid growth, originating in the superior maxillary bone. The growth had existed from birth. 10. Cast of a Face, deformed by a disease originating in the antrum. 11. Model of a Leg, with epithelial cancer, which, originating probably in the skin, had involved the periosteum over the front of the tibia. The diseased parts are preserved in Series I, Nos. 493, 494. 12. Model of a Leg, showing the further progress of a similar disease. The cancerous growth has its base in the cancellous tissue and posterior wall of the tibia, the superjacent parts having been destroyed by it. The diseased parts are in Series I, Nos. 491, 493. 13. Cast of a Lower Extremity. The femur was surrounded by the large tumour, of which parts are preserved in Series I, Nos. 515, 516. DISEASES OF JOINTS. 14. Cast of a Knee-Joint, swollen by the accumulation of fluid within its cavity. The surface of the swelling is unequal, because of the unequal resistance of the parts around the joint ; and it appears divided by depressions extending out- wards from the sides of the patella, and downwards from its lower margin to the tibia. The outline of the patella, raised by the fluid in the joint, can be traced. 15. Cast of a Knee-Joint, greatly enlarged by chronic disease, probably affecting chiefly the synovial membrane and the ligaments. The patient had the power of dislocating his leg in any direction at will. 16. Cast of a Knee-Joint affected with destructive disease. On either side of the joint is a bulging prominence produced by a circumscribed dilatation of the synovial membrane. 16a. Cast of part of the Lower Extremity of a man. At the upper part of the calf is a large rounded swelling, found after amputation to be due to a cyst lying between the integuments and the gastrocnemius muscle, and communi- cating with the knee-joint. The synovial membrane of the knee-joint was dis- tended, and the joint was the seat of destructive inflammation. 17. Cast of the Bones of a Hip-Joint, from a gentleman who, several years before death, received a severe injury of the hip in a fall, and remained lame ; much doubt existed, during life, respecting the nature of the injury sustained. The condition of the bones shown by the casts is such as would result from loner, continued inflammation, producing deposit of bone upon the head of the femur and the borders of the acetabulum. 18. Cast of the Bones of a Hip, with dislocation of the femur in consequence of disease of the joint. The head of the femur rests on the surface of the ilium directly above the acetabulum. ' 19. Cast of the Knee-Joint of an adult. During disease in childhood the bones 2 o 2