SERIES XXVI. —♦— DISEASES OF THE THYMUS AND THYROID GLANDS. 2309. The Thymus Gland of a child, enlarged and very firm, but of apparently healthy texture. xxn. 8 The child was 12 months old, and had well-marked thymic asthma. It died in convulsions. The heart was enlarged, and the vessels of the brain much congested. The thymus gland weighed 328| grains; and measures three inches and three quarters in length. Presented by Dr. "West. ENLARGEMENT OF THE THYROID GLAND (BRONCHOCELE, ADENOMA, AND CYSTO-ADENOMA). 2310. A Thyroid Gland, greatly and almost uniformly enlarged in all parts, but presenting no apparent morbid change of texture. A bristle is passed beneath two strong muscles (Levatores glandules thyroideee) which extend from the body of the os hyoides downwards, to the inner part of each lateral lobe of the gland, and are attached to its surface. The superior thyroid arteries are of their ordinary size, the inferior thyroid arteries are enlarged; each of them is nearly equal in size to an external carotid. The trachea is compressed and flattened by the pressure of the lateral lobes of the enlarged gland. xxn. 14 The opening in the larynx between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages was made in the hope of relieving the dyspcena under which the patient, a boy about 14 years old, laboured. But it was unayauing ; and he died suffocated. 2311. Sections of a Thyroid Gland uniformly enlarged in all its parts, so as to form a simple bronchocele. The texture of the gland appears healthy, except in that it is coarser than that of glands of ordinary size, and that cysts of one or two lines in diameter and filled with viscid fluid are irregularly scattered in it. The enlarged gland completely surrounds, and has somewhat compressed the trachea and the lower part of the larynx. xxn. 10 2312. Section of a Thyroid Gland, enlarged like the preceding, but presenting more numerous cysts with viscid fluid, which cysts also appear in many instances partitioned. Its blood-vessels are minutely injected. xxn. 11 2313. The Thyroid Gland of an old man. Its right lobe is much enlarged, and exhibits in its interior several large cysts, which contained a serous fluid. The walls of these cysts are formed by tough fibrous tissue, in which are several plates of earthy matter, like plates of bone; their interior is smooth and polished. The proper tissue of the gland is expanded around the cysts. XXIL 15 2314. A Larynx, Pharynx, and adjacent parts, with the Thyroid Gland. The rio-ht lobe of the gland is enlarged by the formation of a cyst of more than four inches diameter in its interior. The walls of this cyst appear to be