12 DISEASES OF BONES. the number of Haversian systems were relatively diminished; the arrangement of the intervening space was most complex, and different from that of normal bone. The Haversian canals were much dilated, many of them con fluent, but the vessels were usually small compared to the size of the canals. These bones with the femur (No. 74) were taken from a gentleman aged 68 years When 46 years old he began to be subject to aching pains in the legs and thighs, and alter about a year noticed that the left shin was mis-shapen. Thirteen years later the left femur and tibia had a well-marked anterior curve, and the surface of the latter was nodular and uneven. Jiis hats becoming too tight, he had to take successively larger sizes. The Left lemur and tibia became larger, heavier, and more curved. Very slowly those of the right limb were similaily affected. His skull continued gradually to enlarge. The spine became very slowly curved, and almost rigid. In height he sank about four inches. Shortly before his death, wnicli took place from pleurisy, a malignant tumour appeared in the upper third of the Left radius On post mortem examination, a spindle-cell sarcoma was found to involve the left radius, and there were malignant deposits in the skull, pleura and anterior mediastinum.-See an account of the case by fcir J. Paget, Bart., in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. lx. Presented by Sir J. Paget, Bart. (In Case E.) 74. A Section of the Femur taken from the same patient as the preceding specimen. The changes in the bones are there described. , In this specimen the periosteum is seen to be unchanged; the medulla is soft and yellowish red, and apparently healthy. 75 Portion of a Skull-Cap increased in thickness, and, except the surfaces of the tables, converted into a uniform, spongy, or porous tissue, apparently by a slio-hter degree of the same disease as is shown m No. 72. lhere is the cicatrix of an ulcer on the middle of the frontal bone. a. 66 (In Case E.) 76 Portions of a Skull-Cap, exhibiting obliteration of many parts of the diploe, with irregular thickening and porosity of its tables, and deepening of the arterial grooves upon the internal table. A- zy (In Case E.) 77 A Skull-Cap Both its tables are increased in thickness and density, and its diploe is nearly all consolidated. There are appearances of healed ulcers on the opposite surfaces of the left parietal bone ; and the apertures for vessels penetrating the tables are very numerous. A. 60 (In Case E.) 78 Skull of a man, who, fifteen years before death, received a violent blow on the head and from whom, two years before death, the right eye was extirpated. All the upper part of the skull is increased in thickness and density. Its inner surface, especially on the right side, is marked by an unusual number of grooves and small apertures for blood-vessels. The sutures are not obliterated. The rieht malar bone is somewhat depressed towards the orbit and the external and inferior ano-le of the right orbit is not so deep as that of the left. The right ancle of the jaw was superficially ulcerated by the growth of a large cancerous tumour of the adjacent lymphatic glands. A. 49 The eve which was extirpated is preserved in Series XXXIII, No 2625 and a portion of the thickened dura mater, which covered the right hemisphere of the brain, m Series XXX, No. 2456. (In Case E.) 79 A Skull-Cap generally thickened and indurated, with circumscribed deposits 'of new bone on several parts of its internal surface. a. 31 (In Case E.) 80. A Skull-Cap, a considerable extent of the inner surface of which is thickened and rugged.