62 DISEASES OF BONES. From a man aged 32 years. Swelling of the thigh, without pain, was noticed eight or nine weeks before his admission to the Hospital; he had received no injury to the part. Amputa- tion of the thigh resulted in the death of the patient. Secondary growths were found on the pleurse.—See Abernethy Ward Book, vol. ii, p. 84. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 23. 451. A section of the lower extremity of a Femur occupied and surrounded by a soft, gelatinous sarcomatous tumour, which in the recent state was of a pale pinkish colour. The tumour occupies the medullary cavity and projects out- wards through large openings in the wall of the bone, which is almost com- pletely absorbed. The histological elements of the tumour are small spindle-cells intermingled with a large proportion of mucous tissue ; the latter preponderates in the portion occupying the medullary cavity. The specimen was removed by amputation from a man aged 20 yeai's. Four months before admission to the Hospital he received a blow upon the inner and lower part of the femur ; soon after a tender circumscribed swelling appeared at this spot. It was at first thought that the swelling might be inflammatory, but its gradual increase in size revealed its true character.— See Pitcairn Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 536. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 24. 452. The opposite section of the Femur after maceration. The wall of the bone has been almost entirely absorbed, and several delicate plates and trabeculee of bone project outwards. Many of these were accidentally broken away. 453. Section of a Tumour and part of a Tibia. The tumour occupies the situation of the head and the upper third of the shaft of the tibia : it apparently originated in the interior of the bone, and extended the wall around it as it grew. At the upper part, the articular surfaces of the tibia, and the ligamentum patellae may be recognized. The tumour consists in part of a white, solid, and very firm medullary substance, and in part of a more vascular and spongy substance, in which there are large cysts that were filled by a gelatinous fluid. i. 11G From a man aged 40. The limb was removed by operation. Microscopic Examination.—The tumour consists almost entirely of spindle cells, but in places tracts of round cells are seen. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 25 ; and a drawing, A. 4. 454. Section of a Tibia, with a very large tumour springing from the front and inner surface about the middle of the shaft. The surface of the tumour is nodulated and for the most part hard as bone. The section shows a large fleshy mass springing from the anterior surface of the tibia, and projecting forwards and downwards ; it contained numerous spicula of bone : a small mass covered by a thick layer of bone also projects from the posterior surface. The bone, where surrounded by the growth, is extremely indurated, and its outline is irregular, the more so as a fracture occurred at this point, the line of which can still be distinguished. The tumour, which was a fibro-sarcoma, consisted of immature fibrous tissue, containing very numerous round and fusiform nuclei, and some spindle cells. The limb was removed by amputation from a woman, aged 72 years. The tumour was first noticed eight years before her admission to the Hospital. It appeared shortly after she had sustained a fracture at the middle of the leg. Three years later she again fractured the same leg lower down.—See President Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 76. Microscopic sections of the tumour are preserved, No. 26. Vide No. 3305a, Series L. SARCOMATA CONTAINING MYELOID CELLS. 455. Portion of the upper part of a boy's Skull, and of a large tumour involving it, and pressing inwards upon the brain. The section was made transversely from ear to ear, through the skull, tumour, and brain. The tumour, half of which is here shown, formed on the exterior of the skull a layer from one to two inches thick, which covered the whole vertex, from the occipital spine to