PERICARDIUM, AND OK THE EJSART. L89 From a man, aged 21 years, who had suffered many months from phthisis. His bieathing suddenly became difficult, and he died in the course of a few hours. After death the veu , of the neck and of the uPPor extremities, down to the fingers' ends, were full of blood lho lungs contained masses of tubercle in various stages, and the lower lobe of the right was much congested. The pericardium contained six ounces of clear serum. „ Presented by Mr Gross, by whom the case is described in the Medical Times and Gazette, May 12th, 18G6. 1274. Heart of a Woman, aged 43 years, with dilatation of all its cavities. The mitral orifice is greatly contracted, so as only to admit the tip of the little finger. In the left auricle was found the round ball suspended over the heart. It is about an inch in diameter, very elastic, very smooth, without any trace of pedicle, and lay quite loose in the left auricle. It appears to be formed of fibrin, and without doubt had been in process of formation a long time before death. For a drawing of the recent specimen, see No. 83. A similar specimen is in the Museum of St. G-eorge's Hospital. 1275. The Appendix of a Left Auricle. It is occupied by a clot, which is closely adapted to its wall. The top of the coagulum is raised to show the ragged, broken-down character of its interior. In the recent state this central portion was soft and diffluent, of the colour of ordinary pus. It consisted of granular matter and oil globules, the latter in great abundance. xii. 91 From a case of rigid and patent mitral valve, with hypertrophy and dilatation of the left auricle. 1276. Part of a Left Auricle. A large coagulum clings to its endocardial lining, occupying the most posterior portion of the cavity, the pulmonary veins opening on either side. The surface of the clot is rough, and in parts presents a beaded appearance, the beads being arranged in tolerably uniform lines across the cur- rent of the blood. The clot contained a quantity of grumous, yellowish material, consisting of granular matter and abundant oil globules. This escaped through a post-mortem rent in its wall, seen on the front of the coagulum, where also can be noticed the tenuity of the shell of fibrin which separated it from the blood. The endocardium retains a natural appearance. XII. 93 From a case of patent and thickened mitral valve, which proved fatal from extensive pulmo- nary apoplexy. The auricle was greatly dilated. No symptoms existed during life to indicate the formation of the coagulum. 1277. Portion of a Heart in which there is a round mass attached to the inside of the left auricle, near the fossa ovalis. When recent, the mass was, in texture, like a gelatinous polypus of the nose, yellowish, but spotted with blood, semi-transparent, uniform, and smooth on its cut surface. On detaching a portion of it from the lining of the auricle, this was left rough and otherwise altered in its texture. xn. 35 From a man 30 years old, who died with fracture of his pelvis received on the day before his death. 1278. A Left Ventricle, in which there are several round and oval portions of fibrin firmly adhering to its internal surface, among the fleshy columns near the apex. The two largest portions present cavities which contained a fluid resembling pus. xii. 13 From a man 35 years old, who died with phthisis. For other specimens, see Nos. 1311, 1315, 1340 and 1342. MYO-CARDITTS. 1279. Section of a left Ventricle. Its membranous lining is partly ulcerated and partly thickened with deposits of earthy matter; pus is extensively diffused through the muscular structure at the apex of the ventricle. xn 14