HERNLE OR PROTRUSIONS, AND OTHER 318 from the part of the sac which lies in the inguinal canal, to show the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, which pass across its neck. xvii. 24 No. 124 is a cast from the subject of this Hernia. IRREGULARLY POUCHED SAC. 2085. A very large Congenital Hernia. Its sac is divided, as if by a deep con- striction from below upwards, into two portions, which communicate by a large oval aperture at the upper part. The anterior division of the sac is the larger ; the posterior has the testicle at its inner and back part. xvn. 37 Vide Nos. 2083, 2153, 2156. INCOMPLETE SAC. 2086. Inguinal Hernia, in which the caecum has protruded into the scrotum. There is an incomplete peritoneal sac, to the posterior surface of which, near the neck, the intestine is adherent. xvn. 76 Vide No. 2153. Absence of Hernia Sac, vide No. 2115. TWO DISTINCT SACS. 2087. Inguinal Hernia. The sac, which is of large size, is divided into an anterior and posterior portion by a membranous partition, in the upper part of which there are several small apertures ; a quill is passed through one of the larger of them. Except by these apertures, the posterior division of the sac has no communication with the anterior, or with the cavity of the abdomen. xvii. 6 It is probable tbat, that which is now the posterior division of the sac was at one time an ordinary hernial sac, the mouth of which was subsequently closed; that after this had occurred, another sac was protruded in front of the former one ; and that the apertures of communication between them were formed by the gradual thinning and absorption of their adjacent walls. 2088. Inguinal Hernia. There are two distinct hernial sacs side by side, and closely united by their intermediate walls. Each sac has its separate orifice of communication with the abdomen ; but the orifice of one is very small. The spermatic cord is behind both the hernial sacs. xvii. 57 Vide No. 2143. CLOSED SAC. 2089. The remains of an Inguinal Hernia, after the closure and obliteration of the neck of the sac. The peritoneum presents a puckered appearance and a funnel-shaped depression in the situation where the mouth of the sac formerly existed. xvii. 9 The obliteration was the consequence of the long wearing of a truss. 2090. A similar specimen, with the depression of the peritoneum more strongly marked. xvii. 10 SLOUGHING OF THE SAC. 2091. Femoral Hernia, for the reduction of which herniotomy was perfonned. The sac has sloughed, and its remains are soft and black. The incision of the stricture has been carried from the anterior part of the sac directly upwards. The obturator artery, arising with the epigastric by a common trunk nearly half an inch long, descends on the outer side of the mouth of the sac. xvii. 25 2092. Femoral Hernia, in a male. The hernial sac and its contents have sloughed ; their remains are a pulpy mass, in which no distinction of parts can be recognized. • Three portions of small intestine were protruded into the hernial sac: a portion of straw is passed into each of their canals. . xvii. 58