L25 INJURIES 01 BONIS (FRACTURES). In consequence of the failure of all remedial measures, the limb was amputated immediately below the hip-joint. The palient eventually recovered. (In Case 11.) FALSE JOINTS (Pseudoarthroses). 860. The Scapular end of a Clavicle, with a small portion of bone united to it by a distinct joint. It is probable that this had been separated by fracture. 861 Portion of a Humerus, in which fracture of the shaft occurred many years before death. The ends of the bone did not unite : they are somewhat enlarged, are covered by a substance like fibro-cartilage, and connected by a distinct membranous capsule, which is smooth upon its internal surface, and serves as a kind of capsular ligament to the false joint which is formed between the ununited portions of the bone. m- ® From a middle-aged woman : the fracture was produced by a slight muscular effort. 862. Portion of a Humerus, in the middle of the shaft of which is an ununited fracture which occurred four years before death. The ends of the bone are enlarged, accurately adapted to each other, and have acquired a hard polished surface on those portions between which there was friction during the movements of the arm. 2 The use of the arm was so little impaired by the fracture that the patient worked as a sailor to the time of his death. Presented by P. Brendon, Esq. 863. Cast of the left Humerus of Dr. Livingstone, showing a False Joint a little above the centre of the bone. The fracture was caused by the bite of a lion thirty years before his death. The left humerus was one inch shorter than the right. The lower portion of the shaft is slightly rotated outwards. A small piece of detached bone was found lying in a cyst in front of the fracture.—See Lancet, vol. i, 1874, pp. 565 and 888. 864. The Upper part of a Femur, and sections of an Os Innominatum. On the upper part of the shaft of the femur there are no remains of the head or neck; but between the trochanters is a large and slightly convex surface, increased by broad flat growths of bone from its sides. The cavity of the acetabulum is nearly filled up; there remains only a slight concavity adapted to the surface between the trochanters. The notch of the acetabulum, and the space at which the vessels entered, remain distinct. The form of the osseous substance by which the acetabulum is filled up, makes it probable that it is the head of the femur, which was separated, while it was still an epiphysis, and subsequently united by bone to the walls of the acetabulum. c. 112 This supposition is made more probable by the history of the case. The patient was a woman 60 years of age, who, when she was 8 years old, had a fall on her hip, and was believed to have fractured her thigh. Her limb remained permanently short; but she had never had abscesses, or any other sign of ulcerative disease of the hip-joint. (In Case H.) Presented by Henry James, Esq. 865. Section of the Femur of an old man, in which a fracture through the base of its neck, and through the upper part of the great trochanter, occurred many years before death. The neck was driven into the upper part of the shaft between the trochanters ; and in this situation a layer of compact bone has been formed on the whole of the broken surface of the cancellous tissue of the shaft and trochanters, in such a manner as to form a smooth excavation, in which the neck of the femur rests. To this excavated surface the neck of the