DISEASES OF BONES. 74 by the cancerous substance growing within them, and then protruding through them. The bone immediately bounding the cancerous substance appears healthy: and the borders of all the cancerous masses are well defined. L 290 The patient was a strong muscular man, in whom a hard cancer of the breast appeared twelve months before death. In the last two months of his life both humeri were fractured by slight force. Cancerous disease, like that here shown, existed in the sternum, and in several dorsal vertebra?. See Series V, No. 1131. Microscopic Examination.—The greater part of the tumour consists of fibrous stroma, which in the more recently formed portions forms alveoli containing large cells. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 48 ; and a drawing, A. 25. 511. Section of the lower extremity of a Humerus, surrounded and infiltrated by a Tumour, which is in parts ossified. On examination with the microscope the tumour was found to be a well-marked scirrhous cancer. From a man, aged 42 years, who was attacked with pain in the hand and elbow six months before admission to the Hospital, followed by ovoid swelling about the elbow. Death took place from pleurisy. Small masses of cancer were found in the lungs, liver, and kidneys.—See Abemethy Ward Book, vol. ii, p. *IA. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 49 ; and drawings, A. 23. 512. Sections of the upper part of a Femur. The medullary canal of the bone is filled by firm fibrous substance. Around this substance the walls of the bone are absorbed and converted into a loose flocculent texture. In the upper part of the specimen this change has extended completely through the bone : in the lower part it appears to be commencing upon the inside of the bone contiguous to the fibrous substance filling the medullary canal. The head and neck of the femur, and the os innominatum of the same side, had undergone similar altera- tions in structure. l- From a man aged 55. Microscopically the growth within the medullary canal consists, for the most part, ot well- formed fibrous tissue, forming alveoli containing epithelial-like cells—scirrhous cancer. A microscopic section is preserved, No. 50. TUMOURS OF BONES OF UNCERTAIN NATURE* 513. Section of a Humerus, with a Tumour which was attached to it. There is a portion of skin connected with the tumour and the surrounding muscles ; and the cicatrix in the skin is the result of an operation which was performed for the removal of a tumour which occupied the situation of that here shown. The disease beino- reproduced, it was deemed necessary to amputate the arm at the shoulder-joint. Both the arteries and veins are filled with red wax, which, having been injected into the brachial artery, returned freely by the veins. Part of the tumour is situated in the biceps muscle, the other part of it extends to the bone, on the outer surface of which there is an irregular cavity, in which a small portion of the tumour was imbedded. From this cavity several small canals deeply penetrate the bone, and the medulla in this part of the bone was softer and more vascular than elsewhere. On one of its surfaces the tumour has a very close connection with the vessels and nerves of the limb. The tumour is soft and of a medullary character. L 154 From a female aged 25 years. 514. An innominate Bone, the seat of a new-growth. The bone is infiltrated throuo-hout and the ilium is thickened by the projection of the tumour from its surfaces. On the outer aspect, a section throughout the growth has been made, which is turned forward. A "brush-like" appearance is presented by the closely-set fibres springing vertically from the surface of the bone, and of * The condition of the tumours from long immersion in spirit, or other causes, not per- mitting of a microscopic examination.