DISEASES OF BONES. 39 trochanter minor. The concavity of the curve presents a buttress of hard com- pact bone. The neck of the femur is short and abnormally horizontal. A. 140 (To Case F.) 286. The upper part of two Femora. In the softened condition of the bone during rickets, the bead of each femur descended below the level of the upper cm! of the trochanter major. There is no shortening of the neck of the bone, bat it is slender, and forms scarcely more than a right angle with the shaft. a. 141 (In Case F.) 286a. Sections of two Femora, deformed like those last described. A. 142 (Iii Cose F.) 287. Section of a Rickety Femur of an adult. The shaft is greatly curved and laterally flattened ; and the section shows that, as usual, the walls of the bone are much thicker on the concave than on the convex side of the curve. A. 143 (In Case F.) 287a. Bones of the Leg, deformed by Rickets. (In Case F.) 288. A Fibula of an adult. Its shaft is curved and flattened. The principal curve is directed with its convexity inwards; but there is also a slight curvature forwards in the upper part of the shaft. A. 144 (In Case F.) MOLLITIES OSSIUM. 289. Section of a Humerus from the same subject as JSTo. 293. The walls of the bone are thin, but of their natural hardness. The adipose substance filling the medullary cavity and cancellous texture is converted by maceration into a white firm substance resembling adipocire. j. 130 From a woman, 72 years of age, who had been bed-ridden with paralysis of the lower ex- tremities for nearly two years. Her hip and knee-joints were fixed in permanent flexion. At short intervals before her death her right femur and right arm were fractured when she was being turned in bed. Presented by the teachers of the Medical School at the London Hospital. The case is related by Mr. T. B. Curling, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xx, t>. 356. London, 1837. 1 290. A Pelvis showing extreme distortion, the result of Mollities Ossium. The cavity of the brim is completely closed by the folding together of the ossa inno- minata: fractures appear to have occurred at the points where the bone is acutely bent. The sacrum is folded on itself in a similar manner. The bones are light, porous, and thin ; the walls of the femora are extremely thin. A. 167 From a woman, aged 32, who died three weeks after the operation of Cresarian section She suffered from symptoms closely resembling those of rheumatism for two years before her death For some time the urine had contained a large amount of triple phosphates The flat bones especially the scapula and ossa innominata, were affected by the disease; the Ion^ bones to a slight degree. Formerly five feet one and a half inches, her height diminished to four feet two and three-quarter inches. She had given birth w ithout cUfficulty to three living children at the full term of gestation. ° (In Case E.) 291. A Pelvis showing the deformity characteristic of Mollities Ossium The bones are thm and very light. The cavity of the brim is heart-shaped from the pressure inwards of the acetabula and consequent projection and folding- together of the pubic bones. The obliquity of the pelvis is lost The sacrum