DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 312 ABSCESS AND FISTULA. 2051. Portion of a Rectum, exhibiting a fistula, which extends from the anus upwards between the fibres of the levator ani muscle and the longitudinal muscular fibres of the intestine. A bristle is passed through the fistulous passage, which does not open into the rectum. XYI. 35 2052. Portion of a Rectum, with a Fistula extending for two inches upwards on its exterior, and then suddenly opening into its cavity. The passage is lined by a smootli membrane, like the mucous membrane of the rectum itself. xvi. 50 2053. Portion of a Rectum, with the Anus. Irregular and branched fistulous passages, the course of which is indicated by bristles, extend in various direc- tions around the exterior of the rectum, but none of them open into it. They are lined by soft and smooth membrane. The mucous follicles of the intestine are much enlarged. xvi. 46 2054. A Rectum from a middle-aged woman. Its mucous membrane is com- pletely removed by ulceration, to the extent of several inches above the anus. Abscesses, which formed in the cellular and adipose tissues around the lower part of the intestine, have burst into it by several openings ; and all the adjacent tissues, as well as the coats of the rectum itself, are indurated and consolidated. xvi. 37 2055. A Rectum exhibiting the effects of long-continued inflammation in its coats and in the tissues around them. The whole of the mucous membrane, for about nine inches above the anus, is removed, an irregular shreddy surface being exposed. On this surface there are several apertures which lead to fistulous passages in the diseased tissues. Upon the anterior aspect of the rectum, there is one aperture higher up than the rest, which passes through the walls of the rectum, and which opened directly into the peritoneal cavity. Through this aperture a portion of glass is passed. All the tissues around the rectum are greatly thickened and indurated. xvi. 69 The patient, a middle-aged woman, had long suffered with symptoms of disease of the rectum, when peritonitis was excited hy the formation of the aperture above described, and speedily proved fatal. The first sign of peritonitis occurred during the act of defecation. Vide also Nos. 2058 and 2059. RECTO-VESICAL FISTULA. 2056. Portions of a Rectum and Urinary Bladder, between which a wide com- munication is indicated by a piece of glass. The surface of the rectum, about eight inches from the anus, is extensively and deeply ulcerated; and at one part the ulceration has spread through the thickened and indurated tissue connecting the bladder and rectum so as to form the communication just mentioned. The mucous membrane around the orifice in the bladder is thickened and covered by soft lymph. xvi. 72 From a man, aged 85, who died with asthma. He had not complained of any affection of the rectum or bladder till a week before his death, when he first noticed that air occasionally passed throiigh the urethra. During the last week of his life, both air and f«ces passed with his urine ; the latter chiefly in small masses about as large as peas. Presented by Henry James, Esq. 2057. Portion of a Rectum. Its coats are generally and greatly thickened, indurated, and consolidated with each other, and with the surrounding parts. Just above the anus, there are numerous ulcerated apertures, with smooth edges, which lead through the walls of the rectum into short fistulous canals in the surrounding indurated tissue. One of the canals extends beyond this tissue through the coats of the bladder into its cavity. xvi. 34 Vide Nos, 2071 in this Series, and 2433 Series XXIX. Reeto-Vagmal Fistula, vide Nos. 2059.