DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE 182 are thickened and opaque. The left ventricle is dilated, and its walls are thickened. xn- » For other Specimens of Adherent Pericardium, see Nos. 1229, 1235, 1262, 1292, 1313, 1484. LIQUID EFFUSIONS. 1233. A Heart and Pericardium, from a Child 9 years old. The external portion of the pericardium is greatly dilated and thickened, and there is an abundant deposit of lymph upon its internal surface, as well as upon that of the peri- cardium covering the heart. At the lower part of the bottle is a large mass of lymph which was loose in the pericardium. Besides lymph, the pericardium contained two pints of turbid serous fluid. XIL ^3 Presented by Dr. Moore. 1234. Heart from a Child aged 2^ years, who died from pyaemia, following acute subperiosteal suppuration of the femur. The surface of the pericardium is covered by a thick layer of recent lymph; its cavity was filled with pus. The Femur is contained in No. 31, Series I.—See Stanley Ward Book, vol. iii, p. 388-9. TUMOURS AND ALLIED MORBID GROWTHS IN THE PERICARDIUM. CALCAREOUS OR BONE-LIKE FORMATIONS IN THE PERICARDIUM. 1235. Portion of a Heart encircled at its base by a broad irregular plate of bone-like substance, which occupied the place of the external or parietal layer of the pericardium. The pericardium in the rest of its extent was firmly adhe- rent to the heart by false membrane, which had in some parts a hardness equal to that of cartilage. The internal parts of the heart appear healthy. XII. 32 1236. A Heart, in which there is abundant formation of bone-like tissue in the pericardium covering both the auricles and ventricles. In some situations there are lines of osseous substance corresponding with the course of the coronary vessels; but, from a careful examination in the recent state, it appeared that the osseous substance had been deposited, not in those vessels, but in the cellular and adipose tissue around them. xn. 47 From a man aged 21 years. Presented by E. A. Lloyd, Esq. 1237. The Heart of a man, aged 58 years, who died of acute bronchitis. It weighed 18 ounces. There is abundant deposit of earthy matter in the sub- stance of the right ventricle and auricle, and to a much less extent in the upper and back part of the left ventricle. 1238. A Heart, showing calcification of its walls or pericardium. The patient was a man aged 56 years, who died in a lunatic asylum, after suffering for seven- teen years from delusions and excitement; with no melancholia. In the beginning of 1875 he became jaundiced, and the legs began to swell. The urine was not albuminous ; there was no su^ar, but it was loaded with bile-pigment. Later on the breathing became embarrassed, and he died. No cardiac symptoms were noticed, and no history of rheumatism could be obtained from the wife. A brother was said to have died from rheumatic fever. There was no history of insanit y in his kindred. On post-mortem examination the convolutions of the brain were found wasted ; there were white spots on the pia mater ; the arteries were enlarged and tortuous. The liver was wasted, cirrhotic, and stained with bile. The spleen was large and very firm. The kidneys were large, with adherent capsules ; the cortical substance wasted, red, not pale, and waxy. No amyloid reaction was found anywhere. There was no calcification of the larger arteries. Presented by Dr. Claye Shaw. Vide No. 1313.