574 CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. affected. There was no family history of any cutaneous abnormality. The grouped masses upon the knees, etc., singularly resemble clusters of Balanidce, as met with upon marine rocks. 148. Cast of the Face of a young man, aged 20 years, affected with Elephantiasis Graecorum (True Leprosy). He was born in Madras of parents of French extraction. Symptoms of leprosy first appeared -when he was 12 years old. See an account of the case by Dr. Dyce Duckworth in the St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. x, p. 279. 149. Cast of the Arm of the same patient. 150. Cast of a Scrotum affected with Elephantiasis, from a man, aged 40 years. The disease had existed for fifteen years, and during the whole period had steadily increased. The mass was forty inches in circumfei'ence, and weighed sixty pounds. 151. Cast of a Lower Extremity, enormously enlarged by Elephantiasis. 152. Cast of a Leg and Foot. The back and sides of the foot are greatly en- larged, with a change of structure in the subcutaneous tissue, which resembled that of elephantiasis. Presented by Page N. Scott, Esq. 153. True Keloid of Alibert. Cast taken from the steraal region of a gentleman, aged 65, who suffered from keloid for forty years—the longest recorded period of the duration of the disease. There was no history whatever of any pre- existing cicatrix, and hence the disease is believed to have been of the true, spontaneous or idiopathic variety. Vide case recorded in Transactions of the Clinical Society of London, vol. hi, p. 118, 1870, and vol. xiii, p. 60, 1880. 154. Morphcea {Keloid of Addison, Scleriasis). Cast of the face of a young man, aged 20, of sallow complexion, undersized, with very little beard or whiskers. The disease came on gradually, and the change was not preceded by pain or any peculiar sensations. The patch is smooth, glossy, somewhat depressed, tense, slightly tawny and eburnated. It cannot be pinched up. The hairs have fallen out in the track of the disease, and the part no longer sweats. Sensibility is diminished over the patch. The affected region is supplied by the supra-orbital branch of the fifth nerve. Vide St. Bartholomeiv's Hospital Bports, vol. viii, p. 55, 1872. The disease began in March, 1872, and was still unaltered in June, 1873. 155. Cast of the Fore-arm and Hand of a middle-aged woman, affected with general scleroderma. The fingers, and the wrist and elbow joints, are flexed from contraction of the skin. The skin of the face and extremities was thickened, extremely tense, smooth, shining and inelastic ; the skin of the trunk was only slightly affected. 156. Casts of two Hands affected with Erythema Papulatum. 157. Lichen Ruber (Hebra). Cast of the Leg of a lad, aged 19. universally affected with this malady. He was spare and undersized. The skin was covered with a red papular eruption, from which small silvery scales were thrown off. The papules were both discrete and in groups; some coalesced. Extensor surfaces more affected than flexor. Palms and soles much thickened. No change in the nails. Exposure to cold caused the parts to become very dusky and purple. Sweating occurred only in the axillae. The hair of scalp, axillae, and pubes was unaffected, but that on the body, generally, had the characters of lanugo. Papules occurred on the cicatrices left by vaccination,