INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 117 the fracture is repaired. The sections show that the bone by which the fracture is united is formed entirely between the adjacent surfaces of the over- tapping portions. (Iu Case H.) REPAIR OF COMPOUND FRACTURES. 805. Section of a Tibia from a case of compound fracture, in which amputation was performed eleven weeks after the occurrence of the injury. Ine two portions of bone are held firmly together by osseous substance deposited around the torn edges of the periosteum, and in the contiguous cellular tissue, the union of the fractured surfaces of the walls of the bone and of its medullary tissue is not yet complete ; the uniting medium here consists only of granula- tion tissue. ra' 7J 806. Section of a fractured Fibula from the same limb as the preceding. A small piece of bone, which was detached, has been re-united. The upper and lower portions of the fibula have become so displaced that the fractured end of the lower has rested against the outer surface of the upper portion. In this situation they have become firmly united by bone. ni. 80 807. Portions of a Tibia, from a case of compound fracture through the middle of its shaft. The portions of the bone, partly overlapping, partly driven mto each other, are united by new bone placed between their adjacent surfaces, but not surrounding them. ^0 REPAIR AFTER TREPHINING. 808. Portions of the Crania of two young Dogs, upon whom the operation of tre- phining was performed two months before they were killed. The piece of card indicates the size of trephine which was employed. In each instance the opening is narrowed and altered in shape. The deposit of osseous matter has taken place wholly from the edges of the opening in the bone, and in no degree from the pericranium or dura mater. in. ol) The experiment was performed by Mr. Stanley. 809. Portion of a Skull, in which a trephine hole, made thirty-four years before death, has been nearly filled up by new bone. The greater part of the new bone has been produced from the border of the aperture in the inner table. The aperture still remaining is of an irregularly oval form, about five lines long, and a line and a half wide. Its margins are sharp, and its borders shelve obliquely inwards and downwards from the surrounding healthy bone. It was filled up by a tough fibrous membrane. III. 109 The patient, a Sergeant of Marines, was struck on the head with a tomahawk at the taking of the Danish fleet in 1807, and was trephined in Haslar Hospital shortly afterwards by Sir Stephen Hammick. Presented by Greorge Mantell, Esq. FRACTURES UNITED WITH DEFORMITY. With Vertical Displacement either in the Antero-Posterior or Lateral Positions. 810. A Femur, which has been fractured in the middle of its shaft. The two portions overlap to the extent-of four or five inches, the upper portion lying directly in front of the lower. They are firmly united by bone formed be- tween them and at their sides, and the greater part of the surface of this bone is continuous with the surfaces of the overlapping fragments. A groove along the front of the lower extremity of the upper portion of the femur marks the healing of a fissure. C. 5 (In Case H.) 811. A Femur which has been fractured near the junction of its upper and middle