SERIES XIX. DISEASES OF THE KECTUM AND ANUS. PROLAPSUS. 2045. A prolapsed Rectum. The mucous lining of the most dependent portion is much thickened, forming a great part of the fibro-cellular mass which pro- truded through the anus. A section has been made through the anterior wall, showing this thickened portion, in which numerous clots of blood are con- spicuous, and denote the situation of dilated hemorrhoidal veins. xvi. 119 ULCERATION. 2046. The Rectum of a girl 25 years old. Its mucous membrane is entirely removed by ulceration for several inches above the anus; and above the ulcerated part it is slightly thickened. The muscular and other coats of the intestine are thicker and denser than is natural, but exhibit no morbid altera- tion of their tissue. xvi. 64 Vide Nos. 2043, 2058, 2060. SIMPLE STRICTURE AND CONTRACTION. 2047. Portion of a Rectum, the cavity of which, at its upper part, is contracted to a quarter of an inch in diameter, without any visible change of structure. The contraction includes about an inch of the length of the intestine: it was probably occasioned by the action of the muscular fibres. xvi. 31 2048. Portion of a Rectum, exhibiting a general thickening and induration of its coats, and a very close annular stricture between two and three inches from the anus. Above the stricture the intestine is dilated, and its muscular coat is thick and strong; below it, there is diffuse superficial ulceration of the mucous membrane. A portion of quill is passed through the contracted part. xvi. 32 2049. A Rectum, exhibiting a contraction of its cavity which commences two inches above the anus, and is thence continued four or five inches upwards. The coats of the intestine are generally thickened and indurated, and the divided edges exhibit white bands intersecting a very firm substance. The cellular and adipose tissue around the rectum is also thickened, and is converted into a hard brawny substance, in which the posterior surfaces of the uterus, vagina, and broad ligaments are involved. xvi. 33 2050. A Rectum, exhibiting a contraction of its canal which commences an inch above the anus and is continued five inches up the intestine. The coats of the intestine are generally thickened, and of very dense texture; the mucous mem- brane in some situations is tuberculated, and in others ulcerated. The cellular and adipose tissue around the intestine is indurated. A portion of the coats of the bladder has undergone the same change of structure as the coats of the rectum. xyi. 47