DISEASES OF THE OVARIES. Ill purulent collection. The cyst-wall is inverted, to show a small detached cyst, which is connected to the former by two slender threads. The right Fallopian tube is normal, and is attached to the eyst. The opposite ovary, and the uterus are normal.—See Post Mortem Booh, vol. vii, p. 372. xxxi. 41 2917. Portions of a large Ovarian Cyst, the principal cavity of which contained fatty matter with long slender hairs. Part of the cyst-wall is thick, dense, and irregularly laminated; another part is thin, and on this part a small portion presents a surface like that of ordinary cutis. Portions of fat and hairs are still attached to some parts of the interior of the cyst, while in others teeth, with well-formed crowns and short fangs, are imbedded. xxxi. 8 2918. A mass of Fatty Matter and Hair, closely mixed as if rolled and matted together, which was removed from the ovarian cyst last described. xxxi. 9 2919. Another portion of the same Ovarian Cyst. On its inner surface is an elevation formed by adipose tissue, and covered by a dense layer which exactly resembles human skin placed on its subcutaneous fat; the skin presents on its free surface the orifices of numerous close-set hair follicles. Similar orifices are less closely placed on the adjacent smooth surface of the cyst, and from many of them, both on this surface and on that of the skin-like layer, pale slender hairs, which have well-formed bulbs, project. xxxi. 10 The three preceding preparations were taken from a lady, 63 years old, who died shortly after the removal of the cancerous breast, preserved in No. 3165, Series XLVIII. 2920. Dermoid Cyst of the Ovary, containing fat and hairs. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 2921. Portion of a large Proliferous Cyst, which was connected with the ovary of an old woman. The walls of the cyst are composed of several layers of a very dense tissue. Its internal surface is thickly set with papillary growths and groups of small pedunculated and very thin-walled cells, containing a limpid fluid. Its cavity was filled by a thick brown fluid, of the consistence of cream, mixed with numerous short stiff hairs. xxxi. 18 2922. A Cystoma (probably Dermoid) of the left Ovary, about the size of an orange. The Fallopian tube courses along the upper and posterior surface of the cyst, which contained some sebaceous-like material. The right ovary is contracted. From a woman, aged 43 years, who died of morbus cordis.—See Post Mortem Booh, toI. viii, p. 97. Vide No. 3370, in Series L. PAROVARIAN CYST. 2923. A Parovarian Cyst, consisting of one large and one small loculus; a small portion of the Fallopian tube is attached to the upper part of the cyst. Eemoved by operation from a lady, aged 25 years, who two years before sought advice on account of increasing enlargement of the abdomen. A fluctuating tumour occupied the lower part of the abdomen, extending to the umbilicus. On bi-manual examination it was found to be so closely connected with the cervix uteri that it was believed to be possibly a gravid uterus. The menstruation was, however, stated to be regular. Three months later the tumour had greatly increased in size, and many ounces of clear lluid were evacuated by tapping; the fluid contained only a trace of albumen, and was loaded with chlorides. After an interval of six months the cyst had again filled, but was ruptured by the patient accidentally falling upon her abdomen The tuniour soon after reappeared, and ovariotomy was performed with a fatal result. HYDATID CYST IN THE OVARY. 2924. Part of a large Cyst connected with an Ovary, and the membranes of some Hydatids which it contained. The greater part of the cyst is composed