DISEASES OF BONIS. 55 head of the humerus is dislocated from the glenoid cavity, which is filled by part of the softer portion of the tumour. '' Examination with the microscope showed that the tumour was composed of fihro-oartilage ; the cellular elements were very numerous and the matrix scanty. There is a cast of the limb from which this preparation was taken, No. o. 411. A Cartilaginous Tumour of the head of the Humerus, for which the head and neck of the bone were excised. L 412. A man's Right Hand, with many cartilaginous tumours. Two or three in the metacarpal bones project in round bosses in the palm ; one or two are m the first phalanx of the thumb, and one of large size in the first phalanx of the fore-finger, or in the distal end of its metacarpal bone. The rest of the fore-finger, and the whole of the second finger, are buried in a large spheroidal tumour, nearly six inches in diameter, in which the walls of their phalanges are only just discernible. The outlines of the several distinct tumours, by the fusion of which, it may be presumed, this great mass was formed, cannot now be seen. The first phalanx of the third finger has one large tumour. The little finger appears normal. All these tumours are composed of nodules of firm bright cartilage, which, in the recent state, presented various tints of pale blue, pink, purple, and grey. In many interspaces among the nodules I here is much scattered cancellous bone, with yellow well-formed medulla. Over the dorsal surface of the large tumour there was a deep ulcer (as shown in the next specimen) ; but with this exception, the bones and all the other tissues surrounding the tumours appeared only expanded by their growth. i. 286 A drawing, No. 18, is preserved. 413. A Section of the largest Cartilaginous Tumour mentioned in the last descrip- tion. It shows part of the ulcerated surface of the tumour. A deep excava- tion is formed in it. The surface exposed is formed by the substance of the tumour, scarcely altered in texture, and having no covering of granulations. In the recent state, a thin layer of half-dried pus, or imperfect cuticle, covered it. I. 287 The patient, from whom this and the preceding specimen was taken, was a man 56 years old. The tumours had grown from his birth to the time of his attaining his full stature, and some of tnem were congenital. Besides these, he had had a tumour of two pounds' weight in the fore-finger of his left hand, which was removed when he was 16 years old. A tumour as large as a walnut still remained on the little finger of the same hand. The whole length of his left tibia had nodules on its anterior and inner surface, and some enlargement existed on his left second toe. None of his relatives had a similar disease. Presented by William Salmon, Esq. 414. The Right Hand of a lad 14 years old, in the bones of which are numerous cartilaginous tumours, like those in the preceding specimens. The metacai'pal bone of the thumb contains two such tumours of small size ; that of the fore- finger three or four, of which the smallest is an inch, and the largest three inches in diameter. The first and second phalanges also of the fore-finger con- tain similar tumours. The middle finger appears normal. The third finger has one tumour in its metacarpal bone, one in its first phalanx, and two in its second phalanx : the little finger has as many in corresponding positions: a section of that in its first phalanx, which is nearly three inches in diameter, is suspended by its side. All these tumours are alike formed of minutely lobed cartilage, pale grey, like that of the foetus ; in many of them are small scattered formations of cancellous bone, with medulla; all of them appear to have grown within the several bones, expanding parts of their walls and periosteum into thin osseous and fibrous investments. I. 284 415. The Little Finger of the Left Hand of the same patient. Part of its first