112 INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). PROCESS OF REPAIR OF FRACTURES. SPECIMENS OBTAINED BY EXPERIMENTS PERFORMED BY MR. STANLEY,* ILLUSTRATING THE REPAIR OF FRACTURES, &c, IN ANIMALS. 769. Section of the Tibia of a Dog, exhibiting the process of union on the tenth day after a transverse fracture through the middle of the shaft. A ring-shaped mass of cartilaginous substance is deposited between the periosteum and bone, around and for some way above and below the line of the fracture. In the centre of this cartilage there are some minute deposits of earthy matter. The line of fracture is distinct: in the medullary cavity it is interrupted by a deposit of cartilaginous substance; but in the walls of the bone it is still open. in. 69 770. Section of the Tibia of a Dog; the other half of the preceding specimen. The periosteum is turned downwards and completely separated from the cartilaginous substance deposited upon the bone around, above, and below the fracture. IIT- 70 771. Section of the Tibia of a Dog, which was fractured a fortnight before death. New osseous substauce is thinly deposited in a ring beneath the periosteum,. around, and for some way above and below the line of fracture ; but in the line of the fracture, as well as in that part of the new bone which immediately surrounds the line, the osseous union is not completed ; a line of cartilage only is here seen on the surface of the section, just as in the two preceding specimens, and No. 772. in. 96 772. Section of the Tibia of a Dog, exhibiting the process of union on the eighteenth day after a similar fracture. The cartilaginous substance deposited between the periosteum and bone around, above,' and below the fracture, is ossified, except in that part which corresponds with the line of fracture. This line is still open (as in the preceding specimen) in the wall of the bone, but is closed by cartilaginous substance in the medullary tube. in, 71 773. Radius and Ulna of a Dog. A portion of the middle of the shaft of the radius, in its entire thickness and with its periosteum, was removed ten weeks before the dog was killed. In the upper part of the bottle is the piece of bone which was thus removed. The vacant space was found filled by soft connective tissue. The shaft of the ulna opposite to, and corresponding with the vacancy in the radius, is considerably enlarged by the deposit of osseous substance beneath the periosteum. m. 86 774. Radius and Ulna of a Dog, on which an experiment was performed similar to that described in No. 773, with this exception, that the bone alone was removed, the periosteum being divided and separated by a scalpel from the bone, to admit of the removal of the latter from within it. The vacant space in the radius is here completely filled by newly formed osseous substance. in. 87 775. Radius and Ulna of a Dog, on which an experiment was performed similar to that described in No. 774, and in which the periosteum was not removed with the bone. The vacancy in the radius is here almost completely filled up by newly formed osseous substance. The ulna has become bent in the situation of the experiment upon the radius, apparently in adaptation to an abundant deposit of osseous substance beneath the periosteum of the radius. III. 88 OTHER SPECIMENS OF REPAIR OF FRACTURES IN ANIMALS. 776. The Humerus of a Horse, fractured in an oblique plane from one end of the * Sec his work oil " Diseases and Injuries of the Bones," Plate XXIV.