434 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE URETHRA AND PENIS. tissues. The whole length of the urethra between the ulcer and the bladder is dilated ; its mucous membrane is thick, rough, and dark-coloured; and in the membranous portion is superficially ulcerated. The muscular coat of the bladder is hypertrophied, its mucous membrane is dark, and its surface is covered in many parts with flakes of lymph. xxx- 33 Vide Nos. 2866, 2872, 2873, 2874, 2877. EXTRAVASATION OP URINE ; URETHRAL ABSCESS, AND FISTULA. 2872. A Bladder and Urethra, opened from the superior and anterior part. The mucous membrane of the bladder and urethra is thickened in its whole extent, but no part of the urethra appears especially contracted. Several small ulcerated openings have been formed in the spongy part of the urethra, near the bulb. The cut surfaces of the corpus cavernosum exhibit a sloughing appearance, in consequence of the escape of urine into it. The glans penis has been entirely removed by ulceration. xxx- ^ 2873. A Penis, exhibiting a stricture of the urethra two inches and a half from the external orifice. Behind the stricture, the whole length of the urethra is greatly dilated ; its walls are thickened, and its mucous membrane is deeply folded, and, in parts, superficially ulcerated. There are several small sacs, like the cavities of abscesses, close to the urethra : two of these communicate with its canal near the prostate. xxx- 2874. Section of a Penis, exhibiting a very narrow stricture in the spongy portion of the urethra, about three inches from the external orifice. Ulceration of the urethra has taken place at the seat of the stricture, and has extended through the indurated tissues around it, and communicates with numerous fistulous passages in the parts between the stricture and the bladder. xxx. 5 2875. A lateral section of a Bladder and Urethra. A stricture of the urethra, commencing an inch anterior to the bulb, is continued, with general thickening and induration of the tissues, to the prostate gland. In front of the stricture the canal of the urethra appears to be lost in a small circumscribed cavity, from which five or more fistulous passages lead into the adjacent parts ; one of these passages extends to the perineum. The muscular coat of the bladder is hypertrophied. One of the ureters is dilated into a small cyst at its termina- tion. xxx' 8 2876. A Bladder and Urethra, exhibiting some of the effects of stricture. A large opening exists in the urethra at the junction of the bulb with the mem- branous portion; it was formed by ulceration, and through it urine was effused into the perineum. The ulceration involved a stricture which had long- existed at this part; the canal of the urethra is of the natural calibre behind the opening. The bladder is contracted, and its muscular coat is hypertrophied. XXX. o£ 2877. A Bladder and Urethra. There is a stricture of the urethra at the bulb, and'in the anterior part of its membranous portion. The mucous membrane has ulcerated in the situation of the stricture. The mucous membrane of the bladder is thickened and formed into irregular eminences or ridges, which are covered by calculous matter. Ulceration has taken place through the prostate and the adjacent coats of the bladder at its lower and back part, and the aperture thus formed leads to a large irregular cavity, resulting from the effusion of urine into the cellular tissue between the bladder and the rectum. xxx. 16 2878. A Bladder and Urethra. Sloughing of the urethra has destroyed five inches of its walls, with the adjacent corpus spongiosum. Behind the part