DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. TUMOURS OF THE CHOROID. SARCOMA 2622. Section of a Choroidal Tumour found in the eye of a woman, aged 38. The eye had been blind, it was said, in consequence of a blow, for some weeks. Symptoms of glaucoma set in, for which iridectomy was performed, but without permanent benefit. The growth is a firm spindle-celled sarcoma, and appears to have developed from the choroid immediately behind the ciliary region ; it did not contain pigment. 2623. Section of a Tumour, which was removed with the Bye of an adult. The tumour consists of a mass of soft, greyish, medullary substance, some of which is within the globe, but the greater part, having protruded through the sclerotic, has enlarged, and extended round the exterior of the globe. Portions of the choroid membrane and retina may be discerned, apparently unchanged. The retina is reflected over that part of the tumour which is within the globe, indicating that the tumour grew between the retina and choroid. ix. 6 The woman from whom this specimen was taken lived for nineteen years after the operation, and the disease did not return. Part of her skull is No. 2568 in this Series. 2624. Sections of a Tumour, which was removed from the cavity of the orbit with the eye and optic nerve. The tumour adheres to the sclerotic over its entire external surface, the elongated optic nerve passing through its axis. It is lobulated, firm, compact, and of a light yellow colour. The recti muscles unaltered, adhere to it externally. The eye was protruded from the orbit. The tumours have escaped through an ulcerated aperture in the cornea. The sclerotic is natural, but the retina and choroid at the point of section are detached from it, and the space left is occupied by a clot; blood is also effused into the optic nerve. ix.. 12 2625. An Eye, which was removed from a middle-aged man. The tissues of the anterior and inferior third of the eye are occupied by an irregular growth of firm and very vascular substance, with a granulated, warty, and vascular surface. The optic nerve, of which a portion is preserved, is sound. ix. 17 There was no return of disease in the orbit; but the patient died with medullary tumours in the heart, and in some other parts, two years after the extirpation of the eye. His skull is preserved in Series I, No. 78; part of his dura mater in Series XXX, No. 2456; his optic nerve in this Series, No. 2575 ; and his heart in Series VII, No. 1292. 2626. An Eye, with which a large brain-like Tumour is connected. The tumour has protruded to a considerable distance through the eyelids, which it has completely inverted and pushed back into the orbit. Its anterior part is covered with shreds of soft sloughing tissue. The eye is filled with the diseased structure, but the sclerotic is shrivelled and contracted. The optic nerve is sound. ix. 19 The parts were removed after death. The disease had existed for more than two years, and was associated with similar growths in the scalp and bones of the skull. Presented by Martin Ware, Esq. 2627. The extirpated contents of an Orbit. The position of the diseased eyeball may be recognized by that of the optic nerve, and of a funnel-shaped cavity lined with a brownish membrane, the remains of the choroid. The globe is occupied by a new growth, which has protruded through the sclerotic. ix 27 The patient was 25 years old. The "disease had existed nine months. After several months' duration, the eye began to protrude, and the protrusion constantly increased, completely evertin" the conjunctiva and producing extreme suffering. The patient remained well for at least two years and a half after the extirpation.