DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 313 SYPHILITIC DISEASE. . 2058. The Rectum and adjacent portion of the Colon, laid open, • showing syphilitic ulceration of the mucous membrane. The whole mucous membrane of the rectum is destroyed, except one small patch, which is thickened and opaque. The exposed submucous surface is uneven, tuberculated, and thickened by infiltration. On the mucous membrane of the colon, there are ulcers ot regular round or oval shape, from one-sixth to about two-thirds of an inob m diameter, with clean, sharply-cut, scarcely thickened edges, surrounded by healthy, or only too vascular mucous membrane. Their bases are, for the most part, level, flat, or with low granulations resting on submucous tissue nowhere penetrating to the muscular coats, with no marked subjacent thickening or hardeuing. On some of them, are ramifying blood-vessels; on some few there is, at the centre of the base, a small island of mucous membrane. At some places, two or more of these ulcers, extending and uniting, have coalesced into a large ulcer of irregular shape. By such coalescence, some of the ulcers in the lower part of the colon are continuous with the ulcerated surface of the rectum. No ulcers were found in the coecum, nor in the small intestine, except one very small one of rather doubtful character, in the ileum. From a woman, aged 28 years, who had'contracted syphilis seven years previously. The case is reported by Sir J. Paget in the Medical Times and Gazette, March 18th, 1865. The specimen is represented in the drawing, No. 261. 2059. A Rectum affected with syphilis. Towards the upper portion of the bowel, Hie mucous membrane is thrown into large rounded nodules and folds, and the submucous tissue is greatly thickened. From this point to the anus, the inner surface is covered by cicatricial tissue, perforated by very numerous apertures, and the bowel is here contracted. A glass rod is placed in a recto-vaginal fistula immediately above the external sphincter; other fistulas are marked by portions of glass inserted within them. From a woman, aged 27 years, who had had syphilitic disease of the rectum for about eighteen months.—See Stanley Ward Boole, vol. vii, p. 185. 2060. The Rectum of a woman, aged 30 years, affected by what was supposed to be tertiary syphilitic ulceration. 2061. A portion of the large Intestine, from the same patient, showing the alternation of a healthy with a diseased tract of mucous membrane. For history and account of Post Mortem Examination, see Sit well Ward Book, vol. i, p. 103. MORBID GROWTHS. POLYPUS. 2062. Sections of a Polypus of the Rectum. It is an oval flattened mass, about two-thirds of an inch in its greatest diameter, and was attached by a very slender pedicle, nearly an inch long, to the anterior wall of the rectum, just above the margin of the sphincter. It protruded at the anus, covered with high-coloured mucous membrane, that was tinged with blood. Its texture was firm, greyish, very succulent; and it included a few small cavities full of clear yellowish, viscid fluid. In minute structure, it appeared, in every part, composed of disorderly clusters of small tubules, like those of the natural mucous membrane of the rectum. The clusters of glands were partitioned by small quantities of fibro-cellular tissue. XVI. 95 The patient was a boy 4 years old. The growth had been observed for six months. 2063. A large Polypus of the Rectum from a man aged 40 years. Symptoms had existed for ten years, and for two or three years the fasces had never passed without much straining, and occasionally discharge of blood. Before removal,