GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 490 substance glistening like cartilage. It was removed from the posterior mediastinum. xxxv. 2 FIBROUS AND FIBRO-CELLULAR TUMOURS—FIBROMATA. 3264. The Lobules of the Ears of a young woman. Within each lobule there is a nearly spherical fibrous tumour, over which the integument is tightly stretched. A section of one of the tumours displays a dense pale fibrous texture. Above these is a small tumour of the same kind, which was reproduced in the cicatrix formed after the excision of one of the lobules. xxxv. 24 The tumours began to grow shortly after the patient took to wearing ear-rings. The tumour last-mentioned was removed a few months after its first appearance. Presented by J. H. Holberton, Esq. 3265. Two fibrous Tumours which grew in the lobules of the ears of a young woman who had worn ear-rings. They were removed about two years after the ears had been pierced. 3266. Two Tumours of a fibrous structure, removed from the lobules of the ear of a woman, aged 25 years, where they had grown from the time that the lobules had been perforated for ear-rings. 3267. Portion of Skin, showing an oval raised growth, composed of tough fibrous tissue, like cicatricial tissue, which formed in the scar of a burn. xi. 32 3268. A dense fibrous Tumour, removed from the front surface of the thigh, where it lay imbedded in the rectus of a woman, aged 23 years. It had existed twelve years. 3269. Section of a Foot and of a large fibrous Tumour, which occupies nearly the whole of the sole, and is attached to the periosteum of the bones of the tarsus and metatarsus. It consists of a very firm, pale, yellowish substance, intersected by wavy white fibres and bands. xxxv. 9 The tumour was removed from a nobleman, 35 years old. An enlargement of the sole had been observed thirty years. Numerous unsuccessfid attempts were made by Mr. Pott, Mr. Hunter, and others, to reduce its size. Its great weight and the pain attendant on the latter periods of its growth at length induced the patient to submit to its removal. Amputation of the foot was performed by Mr. Langstaff, and the patient recovered. The other half of the foot is in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons of England. Presented by George Langstaff, Esq. 3270. A " painful subcutaneous Tumour," removed from the outer side of the ankle of a young woman. It is of cartilaginous hardness, and was found on microscopic examination to consist entirely of fibrous tissue, arranged in irregu- larly interlacing fasciculi. Its presence occasioned considerable pain. Microscopic specimens are preserved, No. 160. 3271 Portion of Skin from a Leg. A small circumscribed oval tumour is imbedded in the subcutaneous fat, and is fixed to the inner surface of the cutis. It is composed of a pale, greyish, glistening substance, intersected by white lines. The surrounding tissues appear healthy. xi. 30 It was removed from a middle-aged woman, and had been the seat of very great pain. 3272. A similar specimen. xi. 31 Removed after death from the leg of a young woman. 3273 A Tumour, which was removed from the lumbar region of a man, aged 50, in whom it had existed for three years. It lay upon the posterior part of the