DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 216 1433. A similar preparation. The clot which has formed upon the diseased arterial wall is seated at the origin of the common iliac arteries. Its chief extension is into the vessel of tlie left side, wliicli it completely occluded. A lesser coagulum occupies the right iliac, but a narrow channel remained for the passage of blood. The position of this passage is indicated by the roughened surface of the portion of clot over which the blood-stream had flowed. 46 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. Fide No. 1450. PRIMARY CALCAREOUS DEGENERATION. 1434. A Femoral Artery, the coats of which are made completely rigid by deposits of calcareous substance. The deposits form a nearly uniform tube, in which, however, traces of an annular arrangement may be observed. xiii. 80 1435. The Tibial, and Peroneal Arteries, in the coats of which there is an abundant deposit of calcareous matter. xiii. 92 From an aged man, in whom mortification of the toes spontaneously occurred. 1436. Portions of the Femoral, Popliteal, Tibial, and Peroneal Arteries, the coats of which, by the abundant deposit of calcareous matter in them, form rigid bone- like tubes. The greater part of the deposit is in the form of narrow rings round the artery. xiii. 13 437. The Popliteal and Tibial Arteries, exhibiting abundant deposits of calcareous matter in their coats. In some situations, especially in the posterior tibial artery, the earthy matter occupies the whole circumference of the vessel. Its general arrangement is in narrow rings. xiii. 89 From an aged man, in whom gangrene of the toes occurred spontaneously a short time before death. 1438. An Artery, with an abundant deposit of calcareous matter in its coats, con- verting it into a rigid tube. 58 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. Tide Nos. 1391, 1571. ULCERATION EXTENDING INTO ARTERIES FROM ABSCESSES, etc. 1439. A portion of the Abdominal Aorta and the adjacent soft parts. The vessel is laid open along its front aspect. In its posterior wall is an orifice four lines in diameter, filled with granular coagulum. On the opposite side of the specimen it may be seen that this coagulum is a portion of a mass as large as a hen's egg, occupying a cavity behind the aorta, and bounded by condensed areolar tissue. The patient from whom the specimen was taken was a man, aged 28 years, who was admitted into the Hospital with a large psoas abscess and acute bronchitis. He died in three days. On examination the abscess was found distended with a mixture of pus, and in large amount, recently effused blood. The sac of the abscess communicated with the aorta, but, as niav be seen, tlie orifice connecting them was in great part closed by coagulum. The abscess was associated with caries of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae.—Abernethy Ward Book, vol. i, p. 80. 1440. The Arch of an Aorta, and the large vessels arising from it. The inner wall of a cavity formed of condensed connective tissue is seen; the cavity extended along the left side of the neck from the clavicle to the level of the cricoid cartilage, and beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle. The ragged ends of the left common carotid artery project into the cavity above and below; they are separated from each other one and a half to two inches. Corresponding portions of the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve, where they passed through the cavity, are destroyed. The orifices of the vessels are filled