DISEASES OF JOINTS. 104 716. A Patella, to the inner side of which a pedunculated mass of a fibrous structure is attached. xxxv. 117 DETACHED FEOM THE SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. 717. A Loose Cartilage, removed from the Right Knee-Joint of a boy, aged 15 years. Symptoms of its presence had existed for five years. 718. A flattened oval mass of Cartilage, smooth on one surface, nodulated on the other, which was removed from a Knee-Joint, in which it was loose. The central part of the mass appears to be osseous. IL 25 719. A similar, but rather smaller Specimen, in which there are also specks of osseous substance in the centre. n. 26 720. A Loose Cartilage, which was extracted, through an incision made over it, from the left Knee-Joint of a young man, aged 17, in whom it had existed,— occasioning the usual symptoms,— for nearly two years. No bad effect followed the operation. DETACHED PORTIONS OF THE ARTICULAR SURFACES. 721. Two portions of Cartilage, removed from the Knee-Joints of a lad, 18 years old. They are almost exactly alike in form and size, each resembling such a piece of cartilage as might be obtained by removing that which covers the posterior surface of one of the condyles of a femur; and each, as such a piece would be, is smooth and polished on its convex, and rough on its concave, surface. xxxv. 55 There was an interval of about a year between the operations by which these bodies were rernoyed from the joints. The patient recovered from both the operations without a bad symptom. Presented by Luther Holden, Esq. 722. A Loose Cartilage, removed by the subcutaneous method, from a Knee- Joint. It consists of a layer of cartilage and a layer of bone intimately connected with each other. The cartilage is smoath and glistening on its free surface, like ordinary articular cartilage ; in profile it is seen to have the thickness of the layer that encrusts the condyles of the femur in a healthy adult. Its margins are irregular and cancellous. Examined with a microscope, the cartilage was found to be precisely like articular cartilage. In its deeper layer the cells lie with their long axis at right angles to the subjacent bone, while towards the free surface they are small, flattened, and with their long axis parallel with the surface. The bone presents the characters of true osseous tissue. The patient, a bargeman, aged 27, had suffered severely with the ordinary symptoms of loose cartilage in the joint. He was not aware of having injured his limb. He recovered without a bad symptom after the operation.—See St. Bartholomew Hospital Reports, vol. iv, p. 256. MASSES SEPARATED FROM THE ARTICULAR MARGIN IN RHEUMA- TOID ARTHRITIS. 723. Numerous irregularly nodulated masses of partially ossified fibrous Cartilage from a Hip-Joint. EXCISION OP JOINTS. 724. The upper part of a Humerus excised for the remedy of disease in it and in the shoulder-joint. The whole of the articular surface of the bone is ulcerated.