SERIES XLV. DISEASES OF THE OVTJM AND ITS MEMBRANES. MYXOMATOUS DISEASE OF THE CHOBION (or so-called Hydatid Degenera- tion). 3037. Hydatid disease of the Chorion. The clusters of which it is composed verge towards a common origin at the central and upper portion of the group. The larger cysts are surrounded by others of a smaller size, either attached singly by a delicate pedicle or arranged in clusters upon their surface. A single pedicle by its numerous branches serves in many instances for the support of several vesicles. xxxiii. 20 3038. A similar specimen; with which there is also connected a thick mass of firm substance, like a decidua or placenta infiltrated with blood. xxxiii. 12 3039. A similar specimen ; a large mass formed by clusters of small pellucid cysts or vesicles singly attached to very slender branching cords. At the upper part of the specimen are portions of thin membrane, like an amnion, by which the several clusters of cysts were connected. xxxiii. 11 Presented by Dr. Conquest. 3040. A similar specimen. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3041. Hydatid disease of the Chorion with cyst-like formations. The cord is present. The embryo has disappeared. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3042. A similar specimen. 3043. An Ovum, in which a short small umbilical cord is shown, but in which no embryo could be found. There is hydatid disease of the chorion. xxxiii. 2 Presented by Dr. Conquest. DISEASES OF THE PLACENTA. 3044. A Placenta, which was separated from the uterus in an abortion about the middle period of gestation. Its substance is unnaturally firm, and its foetal surface is deeply and irregularly lobulated. xxxiii. 9 3045. An Ovum, which was expelled in an abortion. The decidua and chorion together form a tough, thin, coarsely-granulated layer. In the place of the placenta there appear only two distinct round masses, apparently of some firm substance, which project into the cavity of the amnion. The amnion forms a thin but dense and opaque layer of membrane lining these projections and the