SERIES XXXVI. V/. DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COVERINGS, AND OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. DISEASES OF THE TUNICA VAGINALIS. HYDROCELE OF THE TUNICA VAGINALIS. 2735. The Tunica Vaginalis and Spermatic Vessels from a case of Hydrocele. In consequence of an unequal yielding of the tunica vaginalis, there is a dis- tinct prominence of the swelling at its lower part. The testicle is situated at the lower and back part of the sac, just above this prominent part. xxviii. 5 2736. A Hydrocele. The blood-vessels of the tunica vaginalis and testicle are injected. The testicle is divided, and appears healthy. xxvi. 6 2737. Section of a Hydrocele, exhibiting the testicle at the lower and posterior part of the sac flattened by the pressure of the fluid. xxviii. 47 2738. A similar specimen. xxviii. 48 2739. A Hydrocele, with thickening of the enlarged tunica vaginalis and opacity of its internal surface. xxviii. 7 2740. A Hydrocele, with thickening of the tunica vaginalis, and an irregular nodulated and tuberculated condition of the internal surface. xxviii. 23 2741. A Hydrocele, in which the enlarged tunica vaginalis is thickened, indu- rated, and of cartilaginous texture. The testicle is healthy, and situated at the middle of the posterior wall of the sac. The spermatic vessels are separated, the vas deferens and the spermatic artery being placed together, at some distance from the spermatic veins. xxviii. 2 2742. A very large Hydrocele, with thickening of the tunica vaginalis. The testicle is situated near the middle of the posterior wall of the sac, and a thick and broad membranous partition extends from it transversely across the middle of the sac, which it separates into two cavities communicating onlv in front of the partition. The vas deferens is exposed running vertically along the back part of the tumour. xxviii. 8 2743. Clear, straw-coloured Fluid, from a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. xxviii. 73 HEMATOCELE OE THE TUNICA VAGINALIS. 2744. A Testicle, with the cavity of the tunica vaginalis enlarged and filled with masses of soft fibrinous substance from coagulated blood. The tunica vaoiualis is thick and hard ; the testicle is healthy. xxviii 4