510 GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 3364. Cutaneous Cysts, which were removed from the scalp. Their walls are thick ami firm, and they contain a thick, pale, grumous substance. xxxv. 7 3364a. Urinary Organs of a Fcetus. The bladder is greatly dilated and hyper- trophied; the ureters equally so, especially near their terminations iu the bladder. The kidneys are converted into agglomerations of numerous cysts, lined by thick corrugated membrane, many of which appear to be formed by dilatation of the calyces and infundibula. The cysts were filled with transparent fluid. There is no trace of proper renal parenchyma. a. 116 3365. Portion of a Fibro-Adenoma of the mammary gland, in which a smooth- walled cyst is imbedded. e. Cysts arising from Blood and Lymphatic Vessels. 3366. A small oval Cyst, with a wrinkled, but polished lining membrane, and exhibiting two valves, like those of a vein, attached to its wall. On one of these valves is a small soft lobulated growth. The walls of the cyst are thin, and loosely attached to the skin and other adjacent parts. aitendix. 10 The eyst was full of blood, and was removed from the thigh of an elderly woman, in whom it occupied the position of the upper part of the internal saphenous vein. It appears to have been formed by a portion of the vein remaining open between two points in which its canal had been obliterated. No portion of a blood-vessel could be traced opening into the cyst. /. Cysts connected with the remains of Foetal Organs; or from the inclusion or displacement of Foetal Structures; and some Congenital Cysts. 3367. The extremity of a Fallopian Tube, with the ovary. A small cyst is attached by a slender thread or pedicle, about two inches long, to the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube; there is another similar, but much smaller thread. These are the hydatids of Morgagni, believed to be the remains of the upper extremities of Muller's ducts. 3368. A quantity of long pale hair, with portions of fatty matter, from a cyst. The fatty matter is in little globules arranged like beads upon the hairs. xxxv. 56 The cyst was removed from beneath the skin of the chest of a middle-aged man. The rest of its contents consisted of a pale creamy fluid. 3368a. Portions of a Tumour, from the anterior mediastinum. They consist of irregularly lobed portions of skin and fat, a bone resembling a superior maxil- lary bone, and another portion of bone like an alveolar border, with sockets, in which are imbedded two incisor, two bicuspid, and three molar teeth. VOL. II. A. 177 The patient was a woman, 21 years old. The tumour was probably congenital. Fourteen months before her death, while she was suffering apparently with pneumonia, a part of the tumour projected below the sternal extremity of the left clavicle, and pulsated regularly and strongly, it was treated as an aneurism, with repeated bleedings, &c, and after enlarging for some time, and threatening suffocation by pressure on the trachea, it began to subside, and at length wholly disappeared from sight and touch. A month after this, the patient died with renewed pneumonia. The tumour was closely attached to the upper two-thirds of the sternum, and to the sternal extremity of the right clavicle. The arteria innominata was completely enveloped by the thickened cellular tissvie which connected the tumour with the surrounding parts ; and it is probable that hence was derived the pulsation which was felt while the tumour was inflamed and swollen. Besides the substances shown in the preparation the tumour contained serous fluid, and sebaceous matter, mixed with hair. The bones were enclosed in a fatty ma=s. The case is related by Dr. Gordon, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xiii, p. 12, 1825. Presented by "William Kingdon, Esq.