130 INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). The child was admitted to the hospital with vomiting, insensibility, and bleeding from the right ear. The next day there was a profuse discharge of clear watery fluid from the external meatus, continuing until death took place from meningitis on the third day after the accident. —See Stanley Ward Book, vol. vii. The case is described by Mr. Eve in the Clinical Society's Transactions, vol. xiii, 1880. 890. The greater portion of a Temporal Bone removed from the base of a skull which was fractured. The Hue of fracture passes through the external auditory meatus into the tympanum, detaching the portion of bone forming the upper wall of the meatus. It passes through the carotid canal and detaches the apex of the petrous bone. The internal auditory meatus is intact, and the labyrinth appears not to have been involved in the fracture. IIL 130 891. Portions of the middle and posterior fossae of the base of the Skull. A line of fracture extends from the foramen magnum across the groove for the lateral sinus and the foramen lacerum posterius, and vertically through the petrous portion of the temporal bone. In its course it passes through the auditory meatuses, the tympanum and vestibule, and divides the membrana tympani. The line of fracture also extends upwards for a short distance through the squamous portion of the temporal bone. The patient died with the symptoms produced by a fracture of the base of the skull. The case is fully reported in the Medical Times and Gazette, 1863, vol. i, p. 185. (In Case H.) 892. A portion of the right side of the base of a Skull. A fracture extends vertically through the petrous portion of the temporal bone, traversing the external auditory meatus and labyrinth. From a boy, aged 11 years, who died five days after having been run over by a heavy van. There was a discharge of colourless fluid from the ear.—See Colston Ward Book, vol. iii, pp. 75 and 421. (In Case H.) NASAL BONES. 893. Section of a Skull, in which there has been a transverse and comminuted fracture of the ossa nasi. The fracture is united, with considerable lateral dis- placement of the lower portions of the bones. c. 83 (In Case H.) 894. Portion of a Skull, in which there has been a fracture extending across the ossa nasi. The fracture has firmly united, but with lateral displacement and overlapping of the lower portions of the bones. C. 72 (In Case H.) 895. Ossa Nasi, exhibiting the union of a transverse fracture a short distance above their lower borders. in. 75 ZYGOMA. 896. Part of a Skull, in which a depression of the zygoma into the temporal fossa appears to indicate that there has been a fracture near the junction of its malar and temporal portions. C. 100 (In CaBe H.) LOWER JAW. 897. A portion of the right side of the body of the Lower Jaw, showing a Fracture which extends obliquely through the bone between the canine and bicuspid teeth, and passes through the mental foramen. A thin layer of the compact wall of the bone, including part of the alveolar border has been split off from the inner side. The specimen was taken from a middle-aged man, who fell in a fit of apoplexy.