336 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LIVER. 2213. Section of a Liver, in which there are numerous masses of medullary and melanotic substance. xvm. 2b There were similar deposits in the heart, lungs, and many other parts. 2214. Section of a Liver, in which there are several round masses of medullary and melanotic substance. Some of the masses are pale, and hardly dis- tinguishable from the substance of the liver ; others are completely black, soft, pulpy, and shreddy. xviii. 11 From a man who died with a very large medullary and melanotic tumour in the axilla, and whose case is described by Mr. Langstaif, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. iii, p. 277. London, 1812. Nos. iy55 and 1956, in Series XVIII are from the same patient. 2215. Section of a Liver in which are numerous minute deposits of melanotic substance. xviii. 37 CANCER. 2216. Cancer of the Liver from an infant 5 months old, probably of very rapid growth, as the child was healthy and cheerful until one month before its death. The liver weighed 40^ oz. The lymphatic glands in the hilus were not affected. All the lobes are shredded with round masses of new growth, white, tough, and of all sizes, from the smallest possible to that of a walnut. Viewed under the microscope the morbid growth appeared to consist of a dense fibrillated stroma, with small meshes packed full of small cells, the latter being tolerably uniform in character, about twice the diameter of a red blood corpuscle, oval, containing several glistening particles in the interior, but not distinct nuclei. No cancer was found in any other part of the body. The case is narrated in the St. Bartholomew"s Hospital Reports, vol. vii, 1871. Presented by Anthony A. Henley, Esq. 2217. Portion of a Liver, having at its extremity a large mass of colloid cancer. The remainder of the organ was natural. From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. TUMOURS OF UNCERTAIN NATURE.* 2218. Section of a Liver, nearly the whole substance of which is occupied by large medullary tumours. The injection was impelled into the portal vein, and has in some parts freely entered the vessels of the medullary substance. xviii. 28 This specimen and No. 2210 were prepared and presented by Francis Kiernan, Esq. 2219. Section of a Liver, in which is a large spherical mass of soft, brown, medullary substance. xviii. 6 From the same person as No. 2803 in Series XXXVI, and No. 2291 in Series XXIV. 2220. Section of a Liver, in which soft medullary substance appears extensively diffused through its tissue. The intervening parts of the liver are healthy. The limits of the healthy and diseased structures are shown by the injection, which has penetrated only the healthy substance. xvm. 13 2221. Section of a Liver, with numerous deposits of soft medullary substance, some of which are diffused, others circumscribed. xvm. 17 2222. Section of a Liver, exhibiting deposits of coagula and medullary substance completely filling the trunk and many of the large branches of the portal vein. There are similar medullary deposits in the substance of the liver. xviii. 10 * No microscopic examination of the following tumours having been made, it is impossible to determine whether they are medullary cancers or soft sarcomata.