DISEASES OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. 477 in whom it had existed for two years. The skm over the breast was fust destroyed by acid pernitrate of mercnry; and chloride of zinc was ^erwards applied to the substance of the cancer at intervals of a day or two. The whole process lasted about a fortnight, and the slough (preserved) was separated four weeks after the first application of the caustic. Vide No. 3330, Series L. SOFT OR MEDULLARY CANCER. 3182. Section of a Breast, showing a cyst immediately beneath the nipple, which contained pus. The lining membrane was injected; springing from it are some ragged proliferations. The cyst is encircled by new-growth, which in some parts attains a thickness of an inch. The axillary glands were enlarged, hard, and infiltrated. Microscopic Examination—T\\e new-growth around the cyst and the proliferations have the structure of soft cancer. From a woman, aged 39 years. Eighteen months before her admission to the Hospital, she noticed a lump in the breast as large as a walnut, which gradually increased in size. On admission the breast was occupied by a soft, fluctuating swelling, from which ten ounces of sero-sanguineous fluid were evacuated by a trocar. No solid growth could be detected before the removal of the fluid. Suppuration in the cyst subsequently took place and the breast was removed.—See President Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 222. 3183. Part of a Mammary Gland, including a section of a tumour imbedded in its substance. The tumour is oval, circumscribed, and closely connected with the substance of the gland, though sepai^able from it, and invested with a thin capsule. Its consistence is firm and tough; its cut surface smooth, uniform, with, no appearance of lobes, or fibres, or other distinct texture ; in the recent state, greyish, with a yellowish-green tinge, and in parts suffused with a deep crimson, bloody hue. Its minute structures were, partly, cells with large clear nuclei, like those of medullary cancer, and, partly, many-nucleated oval, flask- shaped, and other bodies. xxxv. 10 The patient was 45 years old. The tumour had been observed for four months. She recovered favourably from the operation for its removal; but, five years afterwards, scirrhous cancer began to form in the part of the breast left in the operation. (A sister of the patient was, at the same time, in the Hospital with scirrhous cancer of the breast.) In a second opera- tion the cancer and all that remained of thebreast were removed ; and the patient continued free from apparent disease for nearly two years, when a tumour began to form in the other (right) breast. This being removed was found to be a growth, like the specimen here pre- served, except in that it had a large central cavity filled with blood-coloured fluid. The woman was in good health six years after the last operation. 3184. A Tumour removed from a Breast. It consists of a close-textured medul- lary substance, and in its lower part were small cells full of blood. xxxiv. G The histological characters of the tumour were those of medullary cancer. See a microscopic section, No. 152. COLLOID CANCER. 3185. Portion of the Breast of a woman, aged 40 years, with a mass of colloid cancer in its substance. The tumour had beeD growing for two years and a half before its removal. Presented by Mr. A. Winkfield. MELANOTIC TUMOUR. 3186. Section of a Mammary Gland, exhibiting a deposit of melanotic matter both in small round masses and in a more diffused form. xxxiv. 10 From a young woman in whom there were similar deposits in several other organs. The primary disease is in Series XL, No. 3315.