GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 500 3317. Section of a "Melanotic Tumour, removed from a female, aged 31 years. There had always been a mole in the site of the tumour, but it began to grow only two years before removal, and fourteen months later it became warty and lobulated on the surface. 3318. Section of a Melanotic Medullary Tumour, seated in a portion of the skin and subcutaneous tissue of the abdomen. The growth of the tumour commenced beneath a mole, or pigmentary naevus, traces of which appear in the darkly- shaded skin which is stretched over its surface. The cancerous mass is well denned, lenticular in shape, and lobed; its cut surface is smooth, close-textured, and moderately firm. The greater part of it appears nearly pure white, and was when recent only faintly shaded with brown; the rest of its substance is more or less deeply brown or black, through the abundance of black pigment in the cancer structures, or in granules mingled with them. xxxv. 102 The patient was 44 years old. Where the tumour grew, near the umbilicus, there had been a mole from the time of birth ; but the growth had been observed for only five months. In the week after the removal of this tumour another appeared in the left breast, and in five months she died with similar tumours in nearly every organ. No. 572 is a drawing and No. 361a diagram of this specimen. GLANDULAR TUMOURS—ADENOMATA. 3319. A small Tumour removed from the breast, It has the external form and appearance of a fibro-adenoma. Its substance is tough, elastic, nearly opaque- white, appearing obscurely and very closely filamentous. There is a small smooth-walled cavity in its centre ; and it is incompletely partitioned. xxxiv. 23 The tumour consists microscopically of new-formed gland tissue, in the form of tubules and acini, imbedded in a large amount of fibrous tissue. From a married lady, 36 years old, in whom it had grown slowly, and almost without pain, for four years. A drawing of the microscopic appearances of the tumour is preserved, A 37. 3320. A small oval Tumour, having externally the appearance of a fatty tumour. It was infiltrated with calcareous material to such an extent that it could not be cut with a knife. Microscopically it is composed of convoluted columns of very small epithelial cells. _ Some of the larger columns contain a central space filled with granular material and having the appearance of the lumen of a tubular gland with a thick wall of epithelium. The tumour is probably an adenoma of a sebaceous gland. The tumour was removed from the subcutaneous tissue of the back of a young man. It had been growing for six years. His brother, his father, and a paternal aunt had subcutaneous tumours of the same description. Microscopic specimens are preserved, No. 169. WARTS.—PAPILLOMATA. 3321. A mass of Warts, removed from the skin around the anus. xi. 9 3322. A soft, papillomatous, pigmented Growth, removed from the right side of the thorax of a girl aged 13 years. It grew in the situation of a congenital mole, and during the last two years it had increased in size very rapidly. Microscopic examination showed papilla? projecting from the surface, covered with a thick layer of cuticle : there was also a slight ingrowth of epithelium from the deep stratum of the rcte Malphigii into the tissue at the base of the growth, which consisted almost entirely of small, round, indifferent cells. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 170. Presented by C. B. Gnbb, Esq.