DISEASES OF JOINTS. 89 The surface of the diseased Lone is ulcerated, and around it are irregular deposits of new bone. A large circular hole is seen in the ilium, the result of necrosis of a portion of its texture. B. 54 (In Case G.) 599. A Hip-Joint, in which the articular cartilage covering the acetabulum and head of the bone is completely destroyed. The exposed surfaces of bone are ulcerated, and the acetabulum is thereby enlarged. The ligamentum teres is also in great part destroyed, but shreds of it remain, and retain their connection with the bones. The capsule is thickened, and its inner surface is thinly lined by lymph. n. 19 600. A Hip-Joint from a child. Both the acetabulum and the whole of the head and neck of the femur have been destroyed by ulceration. The femur is still attached to the os innominatum by the obturator externus muscle. II. 18 601. Bones of the Hip-Joint, from a boy 18 years old, in whom disease of the hip had existed for twelve years before death. Part of the head and neck of the femur has been removed by ulceration. There has been also ulceration of the wall of the acetabulum, widening its cavity, and at one point penetrating into the pelvis. New bone has been formed in the bottom of the acetabulum, and was intimately united with the rough ulcerated surface of the femur. II. 48 The disease of the hip was not in progress when the patient died with phthisis. 602. Portion of a Femur, of which nearly the whole head has been destroyed by ulceration. The uneven rough surface of what remains is covered by shreds of false membrane, by which, probably, it was fixed in the acetabulum. n. 15 603. The bones of a Hip-Joint, in which there has been superficial ulceration of the head of the femur, and ulceration of the acetabulum penetrating to the cavity of the pelvis. B. 38 (In Case Gr.) 604. The bones of a Hip-Joint, in which there has been extensive ulceration of the acetabulum, and of the head, neck, and parts of the trochanters of the femur. There is necrosis of the tuberosity of the ischium and of a portion of the great trochanter : both the dead pieces of bone are surrounded by grooves of separation. An ulcerated passage extends from the acetabulum through the ischium, just above its spine ; new bone has been formed upon the shaft of the femur and other parts adjacent to the seats of the necrosis and ulceration. B. 10 (In Case Gr.) 605. An Os Innominatum, in which ulceration has removed the whole surface of the acetabulum, and has formed a large aperture of communication between its cavity and the interior of the pelvis. B iy (In Case Gr.) 606. An Os Innominatum and Femur, from a boy, exhibiting the effects of disease of the hip-joint. The walls of the acetabulum are in great part destroyed by ulceration, and its cavity communicates by three apertures with that of the pelvis. The head of the femur is also completely destroyed. All the bones are atrophied, and the ilium is placed almost vertically, and deeply incurved. (In Case G.) B* 46 607. The bones of a Hip-Joint, in which there has been ulceration of the acetabulum and of the head and neck of the femur. Osseous deposit has taken place around the neck of the femur, and in thick nodules upon the posterior