<0 *ti A>" INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). , 10J The specimen was taken from a woman, aged 73 years, who was admitted to Lawrence Ward, having been thrown violently on to her hip, in getting out of a railway carriage. There was no crepitus, but about one inch shortening. The patient died seven weeks after the accident from bronchitis. 746. An Extensively Comminuted Fracture of the upper third of the femiir. The fracture passes obliquely through the junction of the upper with the lower two-thirds of the shaft. A large mass of bone, which includes the outer surface of the great trochanter, the lesser trochanter, and part of the outer surface of the shaft, is separated by the fracture. The top of the great trochanter is also broken off. 747. Portion of a Femur, fractured in its lower part. The fracture extends in several directions through the lower third of the shaft a little above the condyles, and downwards between the condyles into the knee-joint. Several small portions of bone were completely detached. C 13 (In Case H.) 748. Portions of a Tibia and a Fibula. There is a comminuted fracture of the tibia about two inches above the ankle, and two lines of fracture extend down- wards into the ankle-joint. The fibula is fractured about four inches above the ankle. c. 22 Vide Nos. 979, 980. (In Case H.) SPLINTERED. 749. Portion of an Ulna from an adult, split and completely detached by a com- pound fracture which was occasioned by the arm being caught in machinery. The fractured portion, about four inches in length, comprises in its whole extent about one-half of the thickness of the ulna. in. 85 It is remarkable that the bone was splintered to so great an extent longitudinally without the fracture passing at any part through the entire thickness of the shaft. The vacancy left in the bone by the removal of this fragment was filled by granulations; but whether these granulations ossified could not be satisfactorily ascertained. 750. Portion of a Femur, which has been fractured obliquely through the middle of its shaft; a fracture extends downwards through the lower half of the shaft and through the internal condyle. C. 9 Vide No. 766,767. (In Case H.) IMPACTED. 751. The Head and Neck of a Femur, from a woman aged 80. A vertical fracture extends through the base of the neck, which is driven into the upper part of the shaft. The small trochanter is also broken off from the body of the bone. The injury was caused by a fall five weeks before death. The only symptoms of fracture were inability to raise the limb, and pain on pressure. in. 135 752. Portion of a Femur, showing an impacted extra-capsular fracture of the neck of the bone. The plane of one fracture extends through the base of the neck; that of the other vertically through the trochanters, so as to separate the pos- terior parts of these processes and of the bone between them. The head and neck of the femur are driven downwards and impacted in the cleft through the trochanters, and in this position the fractured portions are firmly united. Vide No. 745. HI* 11 MULTIPLE FRACTURE. 753. A Rib which has been fractured in three distinct situations—at the ano-le and at two places in the middle of the shaft. The fractured ends are firmly°united in nearly exact apposition. c (In Case H.)