DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 226 aneurismal sac. The dilatation begins directly above the valves, and terminates abrnptly just beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery. The interior of the sac is very unevenly tuberculated: it contains no coagulum, and has burst into the pulmonary artery. xm- 15 The patient was a man, 45 years old. While apparently in good health, he was seized with pain in the chest, dyspnoea, and intermittent pulse, and died in eighteen hours. 1486. The Arch of an Aorta, with a very large aneurism projecting through the front of the chest. The aorta is uniformly dilated, except in the formation of the aneurismal sac. The mouth of the aneurism is oval, about an inch and a half in its chief and vertical diameter; its lower border is about three-quarters of an inch above the free edge of the aortic valves; the whole border is smoothly rounded, as if by the eversion of the internal arterial coat; and the adjacent walls of the artery appear not more diseased than are other parts. From this, the mouth of its sac, the aneurism extends nearly straight forwards through a large aperture formed by absorption of the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, and of the right side of the sternum. The aneurism, quickly enlarging beyond its mouth, is cylindriform, about five and a halt inches in diameter, but narrowed at the part included within the aperture m the walls of the chest. A section through the aneurism shows that its walls are from one to two lines in thickness, tough and irregularly laminated ; but their component textures cannot be discerned. They are very closely adherent to the tissues bounding the aperture in the walls of the chest, and to a part of the right lung. With the exception of a small part immediately adjacent to its mouth, the whole cavity of the aneurism is filled with tough, and, for the most part, firmly com- pacted layers of decolorised blood clot. xm- 124 In October, 1846, the patient, a publican, 47 years old, began to suffer with sharp spasmodic pain in the chest. In the six months following he had cough and mucous expectoration. In May, 1847, a strongly pulsating swelling appeared at the right breast. This gradually enlarged, and in October, 1847, had increased to the extent of destroying parts of the second, third, and fourth ribs on the right side. Other signs of aneurism of the aorta were well marked, lne patient kept his bed, and took only small quantities of light food, but the swelling, dyspnoea, venous congestion, and other symptoms still increased. At the end of 1847, however the disease, apparently, ceased to make progress ; the external swelling did not enlarge and slowly became much firmer; its pulsations diminished in force, and, by the end of March, 1848 were hardly perceptible. The patient during this time became pale, emaciated, and very feeble, needing better diet, and stimulants. He had kept his bed for six months, but now moved about in a chair Improvement still continuing, the tumour became at length pulseless, hard, and incompressible. In this state lie lived to the summer of 1852, when, after exposure to excite- ment and less prudent living, he died with suppurative pleuritis. The heart was small and flabby ; its muscular substance pale and friable ; and the walls ot both ventricles were scarcely more than half their natural thickness. ' Presented by Richard Evans, Esq. 1487. Part of an Aorta, with an Aneurism at the commencement of the Arch. The sac has extended forwards through the sternum and ribs on each side, and, elevating the pectoral muscles, has formed a large tumour upon the chest. A portion of skin attached to the front of the tumour indicates, by its white appearance, that the process of sloughing has commenced in its centre. The sac in its progress towards the sternum, has extended itself on each side into the' lung. A portion of the sac in the right lung is laid open, and is filled by laminated coagulum. On the left side, the ragged surfaces of the sac, and the shreds of coagulum protruding through, it, mark the situation m which the aneurism burst into the thoracic cavity. xm. 39 1488. The Arch of an Aorta, generally dilated and having a large aneurismal sac, formed by a further dilatation of a portion of its anterior wall. The sac ex- tends forwards through the sternum and costal cartilages, and formed a con-