220 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. by the dilatation and growth of a small portion of its posterior wall. A piece of bongie is introduced into an aperture by which the sac burst. The coats of the aorta, except in the dilated part, appear quite healthy : the interior of the sac is coarsely tuberculated. xin. 16 1458. Portion of an Abdominal Aorta, exhibiting a large Aneurismal Sac, with a wide oval mouth, projecting from one side of the artery, and formed entirely by the dilatation of its coats. A soft white substance is deposited in irregular patches beneath the inner membrane of both the sac and the arterial walls. xin. 81 1459. A Femoral Artery, the seat of Aneurism. The sac, occupying the whole iuguinal portion of the artery, extends from the origin of the epigastric and circumflex iliac branches to the profunda. It is formed by a dilatation of about half the circumference of a portion of the artery an inch long. The coats of the artery, thickened by deposits of soft substance, opaque, and indurated, may be traced for some way upon the inside of the sac. In the rest of its extent the sac appears to be formed by condensed cellular tissue ; and its surface, at its upper part, is covered by thick laminated coagulum. Bristles are introduced into the orifices of the epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries. In the lower part of the sac are two distinct orifices, one leading to the femoral artery, the other to the profunda. The femoral vein, to the extent of two inches, is obliterated by the pressure of the aneurism. Below the obliterated part the vein is laid open to show the clots of fibrin filling its cavity. Kill. 83 1460. Aneurism of the Popliteal Artery. It is situated on the anterior part of the vessel, so that it lay between the latter and the back part of the lower end of the femur. At the upper part of the aneurism, just where it begins to expand from the trunk of the artery, is a small rent. From a man, aged 46 years, who had suffered from occasional pain in the calf of the leg with slight swelling'for many months, but though the limb was several times carefully examined, no aneurism could be detected. At last it was attacked by sudden and acute pain, followed by rapidly increasing swelling and pulsation in the popliteal space. A few days later the limb was amputated through the thigh. The popliteal space and adjacent parts were found distended with blood, which had escaped from the rent pointed out. For other Specimens of Saccular Aneurism, vide Aneurisms of Particular Arteries, p. 223 et seq. CONSECUTIVE ANEURISM. 1461. A Popliteal Artery, with a consecutive Aneurism. There appears to have been a complete rupture of the whole circumference of the artery, so that the sac is formed entirely by the surrounding cellular tissue. Above and below the aneurism the artery appears to be healthy; its coats terminate abruptly at the boundaries of the sac. The sac is almost filled by laminated coagulum. The popliteal vein is pervious, but flattened by the pressure of the sac. xm. 24 Tide Nos. 1509, 1514, 1545. ANEURISMAL VARIX. 1462. Portion of a left Petrous Bone, with which are connected the left carotid arteries and other adjacent parts. The common carotid artery, laid open from be- hind, is large, and, with the exception of slight fatty degeneration, is of healthy texture; the internal carotid is normal; the external carotid is large from its origin, and just after giving off its lingual branch, it becomes thin-walled, much larger, and'very tortuous. Its canal, from this point to its final division, is nearly half an inch in diameter and about two inches in length. At the upper part of this, its tortuous and dilated portion, there is an aperture of communication between the external carotid artery and the upper part of the internal jugular vein; the vessels being brought into unnatural proximity at one of the curves of the artery. The aperture (through which a bristle is passed) is oval and nearly