332 HERNIiE OR PROTRUSIONS, AND OTHER DISPLACEMENTS, ETC. of the large intestine, so that during life two inches and a half of the inverted caecum protruded through the anus. The external aperture is transverse, and situated at the middle of the anterior aspect of the protruded portion, which is formed by the lower end of the ileum, at its junction with the caecum, xvn. 95 The child had suffered for eight months with alternate diarrhoea and constipation. The prolapsus of the bowel was first noticed four months before death. 2188. The Large Intestine of an infant. An intussusception of the upper part of the colon into the sigmoid flexure, and thence into the rectum, had proceeded until the appendix caeci protruded at the anus. The stomach had been drawn, by means of its connection with the transverse colon, into a vertical position. xvii. 87 Presented by Henry Taynton, Esq. SEPARATION OF INTUSSUSCEPTED INTESTINE. 2189. Portion of Small Intestine, nearly three feet long, which was discharged in a gangrenous state from the anus. xvii. 63 2190. The Caecum, and a portion of the Ileum connected with it, from the sa,me person as the preceding specimen. The caecum is opened to show the condition of its mucous membrane, which is extensively ulcerated, and portions of which hang in shreds in the cavity of the intestine. A straw is passed from the caecum through the ileo-caecal valve. The ileum is opened to show the adhesion of its severed extremity to the caecum, and the continuity of their mucous membrane. xvii. 64 The patient was a woman, 48 years old, subject to constipation. Seventeen days before the discharge of the portion of intestine in No. 2189, she was seized with"signs of internal strangula- tion, which continued for six days, and then abated. Subsequent to the discharge of the intestine, which took place eleven days after the partial cessation of the intestinal obstruction, the patient had fsecal evacuations, but she died exhausted ten days after the discharge. There had doubtless been an intussusception of the ileum into the csecum and colon, and the ensheathed portion had sloughed off after it had become adherent at the point of inversion to the portion in which it was ensheathed. Presented by William Radnor, Esq. 2191. A portion of Caecum, with the adjoining parts of the Small Intestine, re- moved from a child whose abdomen was opened during life for intussusception. A large piece of small intestine had passed through the ileo-csecal valve, and it was found impossible to return it, the large intestine having ah-eady sloughed at some points and being rup- tured in the attempt to return the strangulated (intussuscepted) small intestine. The portion of the intestine which forms the specimen was accordingly cut out. The ruptured portion of large intestine was stitched up with fine carbolised cat-gut, and the adjacent cut ends of large and small intestines were similarly sewn together. The patient survived the operation eight hours.—See Lucas Ward Book, vol. iv, p. 353. INTUSSUSCEPTION IN ANIMALS. 2192. Intussusception of the Intestine of a Dog.