191 PERICARDIUM, AND OF THE HEART. 1285. A Heart, showing a firm, whitish tumour in the upper part of the posterior wall of the left ventricle. Microscopically it consisted of fibrous tissue. There was evidence of chronic endocarditis of the mitral and aortic valves.—See St. Bartho- lomew's Hospital Reports, 1872, for account by Dr. Wickham Legg; and Post-Mortem Book, vol. iii, p. 6, 1872. SARCOMA. 1285a. A Heart, with numerous small soft tnmours beneath the layer of the peri- cardium covering the heart, and beneath the membrane lining its cavities. xii. 29 Recent microscopic examination showed that the tumour was a round-cell sarcoma. See a microscopic section, No. 62. The case is described as one of " Tuberculated Sarcoma," by Mr. Abcrnethy, in his Surgical Observations; On Tumours, vol. ii, p. 53. London, 1810. CANCER. 1286. Part of a Heart, with a large medullary cancerous tumour in the right ventricle. The specimen, in its recent state, was thus described: " The heart was of about the natural size, externally healthy, with the exception of a pale spot on the anterior surface of the right ventricle : the walls were thin and flabby; the valves efficient; and all the cavities healthy, except that of the right ventricle, which appeared nearly filled by some roundish masses of a dull red colour and soft consistency, springing from a point corresponding with the pale spot on the external surface of the heart; their free, rounded extremities were directed towards the pulmonary artery, and the tip of the longer lobule was not more than an inch distant from the lower edge of its valves. Parallel to this and to its right lay a similarly-shaped but shorter mass, which was separated from the next mass by the columnae carnese giving origin to the chorda? tendineaa for the left flap of the tricuspid valve ; so that the next lobule, which was shorter than the two preceding, thicker and somewhat cleft at its fore end, pro- jected into the ring of the valves. Below lay two or three roundish, flattened masses, extending quite to the apex of the ventricle. Jnst about the attach- ment of the larger masses the muscular substance of the heart appeared in- filtrated with encephaloid matter ; but nearer the apex, where the tumours were smaller, the muscular substance was comparatively, if not quite free; the masses being attached by roots ramifying among the columnse carnece, and adhering to the surface without actually penetrating into the muscular sub- stance of the organ. XII 75 The patient was a man, 48 years old. Two years before death his testicle enlarged with medullary cancer. It was removed three months before death, and he recovered from the operation, but was unable to continue at his work. No characteristic signs of this disease of the heart existed during life : " A systolic murmur was audible at the apex, of a faintly musical character, and one of a soft, blowing character was heard in both the pulmonary artery and the aorta." The patient died exhausted, but never had hteinoptysis, anasarca, or enlargement of the superficial veins of the abdomen. Medullary cancer was found in a large mass on the lumbar vertebra?, and in a smaller one in the neck. The case is related by Dr. Ormerod in the Medico-Chinvnjleal Transactions, 1847 vol. xxx p. 39. For a drawing of the fresh specimen, see No. 92. 1287. Portion of the Heart of the same patient from whom specimen No. 501 in Series I was taken, with a small Medullary Cancer imbedded in its muscular substance near its apex. l 24Q MELANOTIC TUMOURS. 1288. Section of a Heart, in every part of which there are minute deposits of melanotic substance. Some of these deposits are beneath the pericardium others beneath the membrane lining both the auricles and ventricles and others are imbedded m the muscular substance. Some minute deposits of the me