URINARY CALCULI. 532 from the bladder consists principally of the Phosphates (especially Phosphate of Lime) and some Carbonate of Lime and animal matter. The stone from the urethra consists of the same materials with a larger proportion of the Carbonate of Lime, and some Oxalate of Lime. Analysis by Dr. Prout. Vide also Phosphatic Deposit upon Foreign Bodies. CALCULI DEPOSITED ON FOREIGN BODIES. URATE OF AMMONIA. 189. Parts of a Gutta-percha Bougie, about five inches in length, encrusted with deposits of Urate of Ammonia, ejected from a man's urinary bladder, alter being broken into several pieces by lithotrity. Whilst this instrument was being passed, twenty-seven days prior to its removal, it broke between four and five inches from the distal extremity, the fragment being left m the urethra. Its removal was at once attempted by cutting into the urethra.through the pe™eum, but a spasmodic action of the membranous portion ensued, and the whole fragment was dmwnmto the bladder. It there lay across the neck, was readily reached by the hthotnte, turned, and an effort made to withdraw it; subsequently it was broken into several pieces portions removed between the blades of the instrument, and the remainder expelled with a violent rush of urine "'The iTeis fully related by Mr. Holmes Coote, in the Medical Times and Gazette, February 20, 1858. EARTHY PHOSPHATES. 190. Sections of a Calculus, composed of Triple Phosphate, with Phosphate ot Lime, deposited around a piece of the stilet of a catheter which is bent m the form of a hook. From the bladder of a man. Lithotomy by Sir Wm. Lawrence. 191. A mass of Calcareous matter, consisting of the mixed Phosphates, deposited on a portion of a Bougie. This specimen was presented by the Council of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. 192. Fusible Calculous Matter deposited around a piece of paper which had been passed into the urethra of a female. 193. Fragments of a Calculus, composed principally, according to the analysis of Dr. Prout, of the mixed Phosphates. They were removed from the bladder of a female by Mr. Stanley. There are also in the bottle several hairs, with calculous matter upon them, which were passed with the urine ot the same patient. 194 Portion of Sealing Wax which had been introduced into the bladder three years prior to its extraction. It is almost entirely encrusted with calculous matter. 195 A Hair Pin, which became the nucleus of a Phosphatic Calculus, removed from the' bladder of a girl, aged 17 years. She had passed it into the bladder two months previously, elbow first, and being unable to remove it, had continued her usual occupation, until the symptoms of stone in the bladder compelled her to seek relief. The stone was removed by Mr. Holden through the urethra, with only slight injury to the soft parts, which in a few days regained their normal condition.