SEEIES XV. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. DILATATION OF THE OESOPHAGUS. 1833. An (Esdphagus with a portion of the Stomach. A dilatation of the oesophagus commences immediately below the larynx, and gradually increases to its termination in the stomach. In its lower half it measured nearly six inches in circumference. In the upper part of the dilated oesophagus the lining membrane is sound; in its lower half, the greater part of this membrane is superficially ulcerated, and shreds of it hang in the iuterior of the tube. Just above the stomach, the complete removal of the lining membrane exposes the muscular fibres of the oesophagus, which are here, and on every part of the canal, hypertrophied. The cardiac orifice was free; and the stomach was healthy. XXIV. 12 The patient was 20 years old. He had had signs of this disease for ahout eighteen months before his death, with frequent sickness about two hours after taking food, pain and tenderness in the epigastric region, and a feeling as if his food stopped at the lower part of the oesophagus. He died with peritonitis. 1834. Annular contraction of the (Esophagus at its cardiac extremity as it passes through the diaphragm. Above this point the canal is greatly dilated, and the muscular portion of its wall is hypertrophied. The disease had existed for several years. 0,5 From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION", &c. EFFUSION OF LYMPH. 1835. An (Esophagus, in which the whole of the mucous membrane is lined by a uniform thin layer of lymph. Strips of the lymph, which is soft as if recently effused, are reflected. In the portion of the pharynx which is preserved lymph of the same kind is deposited in separate patches. xxiv. 6 The patient was a man 35 years old. He died on the seventh day of his illness of acute pleuropneumonia No signs of this affection of the pharynx and oesophagus had been observed during life; and it is not probable that he bad taken any large quantity of antimony. 1836. An (Esophagus, with a portion of the Stomach. The inner surface of the oesophagus is covered by lymph, deposited in strips corresponding with the wrinkles of its lining membrane. Portions of the lymph have been detached • and the subjacent membrane appears unaltered. XXIV -q There was no reason to suppose that this deposit of lymph was occasioned by poison.