DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 377 The specimen was token from a child, aged 2 years. The only nerve lesion observed was left facial paralysis ; she had a strumous finger. Miliary tubercles were found in the lungs but not in the brain or other organs. The bronchial glands were caseous ; they are preserved m Series XXIV, No. 2281.— See Post Mortem Book, vol. viii, p. 204. Microscopic sections of the tumour are preserved, No. 99. 2493. Tumours composed of caseous material, removed from the cerebrum and cerebellum of a boy. There were one hundred and sixty in different parts of the brain. The child had sustained severe injury to the skull some time before his death. From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2494. Cerebellum, with the Dura Mater covering it, from a young subject. The natural structure of the cerebellum is almost entirely removed, and in its place there is a firm whitish substance, with specks of calcareous matter scattered through it. TL. 20 CALCAREOUS TUMOURS. 2495. The left Corpus Striatum and Optic Thalamus with the Pons Varolii and ad jacent parts of the brain. Lying partly in the posterior extremity of the third ventricle and partly in a smooth-walled space in the left optic thalamus, is a white, rough, and spiculated calcareous nodule of the size of a hazel-nut. Its surface is quite free except at the lower and posterior part, where a rather dense fibrous tissue is continuous with its structure. The brain substance on which it lies, and both crura cerebri, contain a large quantity of tough fibrous tissue which is continuous with the pia mater. The specimen was taken from a young man, aged 19 years, who was brought to the Hospital in an apoplectic fit, and died twelve hours later. The lateral ventricles were filled with blood, which appeared to have issued from the outer and back part of the left optic thalamus. The calcareous nodule had apparently no connection with the haemorrhage, the optic thalamus in its neighbourhood being perfectly healthy. There were pendulous vegetations on the mitral valve. With the exception of a fit some years before, he had had no cerebral symptoms. Microscopic examination of the brain substance showed a slight increase of the neuroglia in the neighbourhood of the tumour.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. vii, p. 109. 2496. Portion of Cerebrum, with a small, conical, bone-like tumour, which, apparently originating in the pia mater, has penetrated between the convolu- tions into the substance of the brain. VI. 37 SARCOMATA. 2497. A Glioma occupying the optic commissure, and extending along both optic nerves. The patient had polyuria, and white atrophy of both optic discs. A microscopic section is preserved, No. 100. See an account of the case by Dr. N. Moore in the Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xxxii, 1881. 2498. Part of the Base of the Brain, from the patient from whom the eye, preserved in Series XXXIII, No. 2633, was extirpated. An oval mass of dark- grey, medullary and melanotic substance (like that external to the eye), is imbedded in the surface of the brain, and compresses the optic commissure the left optic nerve, and the left carotid artery. It is loosely connected with the brain ; and the adjacent cerebral substance appears unchanged. ix. 24 A microscopic section is preserved, No. 101. 2499... Portions of Cerebrum, in the substance of which there are several sarcomatous tumours of different sizes. The sections of some of these tumours show that they are of a firm consistence ; and that blood is effused in the interior of some, and upon the surfaces of others. YI ^9 From a child, 1 year and 9 months old, whose testicle, with a large medullary tumour was removed five months before death, and who had similar tumours in the lungs and other parts