SEEIES XXVII. —♦— DISEASES OF THE SUPRA-RENAL BODIES. AMYLOID DEGENERATION. 2320. Supra-renal Capsule, from a man aged 36 years. The cortical substance is in a state of amyloid degeneration. The medullary structure is not affected. The other capsule was in a similar condition. xxn. 23 He died from phthisis and albuminuria, with amyloid degeneration of the liver and kidneys. But the capsules were most effected. There was no change of colour of the skin. TTTBERCTTDAR DISEASE (with Caseous and Calcareous Degeneration). 2321. Two Supra-renal Capsules, from a man aged 20 years. The lower one has been laid open. The substance of both is destroyed by tubercular disease. Tubercle was also found in the lungs and mesenteric glands. There was general but not deep bronzing of the skin. The man had been delicate all his life, but had become much weaker during the last year of it. xxn. 26 2322. The right Supra-renal Capsule, from a man aged 34 years, It is some- what increased in size, and the tisue is nearly wholly replaced by masses of cheesy matter, some very soft; besides these cheesy masses, there is a little translucent greyish material. The right semilunar ganglion was dissected out and found natural: there was no matting together of the parts around. The left supra-renal capsule was diseased in precisely the same manner as the right. The face, neck, nipples, scrotum, and penis were rather deeply tinted of a sooty colour; there were many small black spots on the face, but no pigmentation within the mouth. There were numerous cheesy masses at the apices of both lungs. The liver and spleen were adherent to all the parts around by old ad- hesions. The right supra-renal capsule was densely adherent to the liver.— See Post Mortem Book, vol iii, Case 43. xxn. 31 2323. A left Supra-renal Capsule, seen from behind, with the aorta, the semi- lunar o-ano-lion, supra-renal and renal plexuses. The great splanchnic nerve is seen coming down from above to the semilunar ganglion, and sending down a branch which passes behind the supra-renal artery, to the renal plexus below. Near it and to the right, a branch of the.pneumogastric comes down and joins the ganglion. The supra-renal artery springs from the renal, which has been cut off Ishort. The vein, with the renal vein, has been cut off to show the nerves. The outer surface of the capsule is rough and irregularly nodulated; one laro-e nodule being especially prominent at the exact point where the nerves enter the organ. The peculiar features of the disease are well seen in the other half of the capsule, the cut surface of which is shown below. A fibrous band, continuous with the thickened fibrous investment, passes obliquely across the organ, dividing it into two unequal parts. No trace of the natural structure remains, but the whole organ is much enlarged and converted into a moderately