408 GENERAL PATHOLOGY. November, 1870; a second recurrent growth was removed in June, 1871; and a third in November, 1871. 3309. A large Tumour, with the surrounding skin, removed from the front of the chest of a middle-aged lady. The section of the tumour shows that it is composed of a soft but compact, pure white, brain-like medullary substance, with blood diffused through its lower half. xxxv. 28 In the course of eleven years preceding the removal of this tumour, three similar operations had been performed on the same lady. At the first operation, the part removed appeared to be a simply hvpertrophied mammary gland. At the second, a large tumour was removed from the opposite breast. At the third, a large tumour removed from the seat of one of the former operations, appeared to be partly fibrous, and partly medullary. At the fourth, the tumour above described was removed from the front of the sternum between the cicatrices ot the other operations. The effusion of blood into the lower part of this tumour was the conse- quence of its being punctured. Profuse haimorrhage occurred at the same time, and a large portion of the tumour, as the preparation shows, protruded through the wound. 3310. Sections of a Tumour, with the surrounding skin, removed from the same patient as the tumour last described, and from the situation of the cicatrices of the previous operation. The sections display the same medullary character as the preceding tumour presents, but the morbid substance is softer and more uniformly coloured with effused blood. xxxv. 29 During her recovery from this, the fifth operation, the patient died suddenly. A mass of fibrin mixed with cancerous matter was found in the pulmonary artery ; the specimen is preserved in Series VIII, No. 1564. 3311. A Tumour, removed from the pectoral region of a young man, aged 22 years, where it had existed for fourteen months. It was situated immediately behind the left mammary gland but, as the section shows, the gland is not involved, but merely carried forward by the growth of the tumour behind it. The mass was very hard, circumscribed, and prominent, but the deeper part involved the lower border of the pectoralis major muscle, a portion of which was necessarily removed with the tumour. The fibres of the muscle^ may be traced up to the tumour, with which they are connected, but in passing into the substance of the tumour, their structure is lost. The tumour appears to be composed of fibrous tissue, strong bands of which intersect it irregularly m different directions. Some of the axillary glands were slightly enlarged. MYELOID SARCOMA (Giant-Cell Sarcoma). 3312. Portion of a Lower Jaw, comprising one side of the bone from the angle to the symphisis, which was removed by operation from a young woman A soft medullary growth, originating in the interior of the bone, has caused the expansion of its surrounding walls. In the upper half of the section the morbid structure has been separated from the cavity in which it was imbedded. i. 208 Microscopically, the tumonr consists of round and spindle cells in a scanty matrix of connec- tive tissue, with myeloid cells. 3313 An Inferior Maxilla, upon which there are two nearly symmetrically placed tumours on either side of the symphisis, originating apparently within the substance of the bone. Their section is homogeneous, and of a pinkish grey colour. The substance of the tumours is ossified throughout. They were found with the microscope to be myeloid sarcomata. , The bones in Nos. 289a, 289b, 289c, Series I, were taken from the same case.