DISEASES OF JOINTS. 87 each femur. Close by the insertion of this ligament a each of the articular cartilages has been removed by ulceration, and on the anterior £rf£rf the neck o°f each femur there is « synovial and fibrous covering, beneath which the surface of the bone is hard and nodulated. SEPARATION AND LOOSENING OF THE CARTILAGE FROM THE BONE 582. A Knee-Joint, exhibiting the effects of acute inflammation affecting chiefly the articular cartilages. The synovial membrane is slightly tokenedjnd increased in vascularity. Upon the patella, as well as upon the outer condyle of the femur and the head of the tibia, the free surface of the articular cartilage is extensively absorbed. There has also been some absorption of its deep or attached surface, so that its connection with the bone is loosened. The exposed surface of the bones is very vascular. The mtient was a boy aged 15 years. The disease had been of only two months' duration ; it^^T^S^ h the cellular tissue of the ham, and tWe extended mto the joint. During the last fortnight of its progress the pain was extremely severe. The limb u a, amputated, and the patient recovered. 583. Section of a Femur, exhibiting the effects of inflammation of the cancellous texture and articular surface of one of its condyles. The increased vascularity of the bone is shown by the degree in which its vessels have received injection. The connection of the articular cartilage with the bone was loosened so that it II O / was readily separated. 584. The articular portions of a Femur and a Patella, exhibiting partial absorp- tion of the articular cartilages, and loosening of their connection with the bones. The cartilage upon the patella has been absorbed m its centre, and was readily separated from the bone, except at its border, where it main- tained its natural firmness of connection. Upon the posterior part ot the condyles of the femur, the whole thickness of the cartilage is absorbed; the exposed surface of the bone is rough and very vascular. n. 32 585. Sections of the condyles of a Femur. The articular cartilage is thinned, and its connection with the bone is so loosened that its separation was readily effected. Portions of the cartilage have been detached and turned downwards, to show that parts of the surface which were connected with the bone are unnaturally rough. The exposed surface of bone is very superficially ulcerated and thinly covered by granulations. n- 0 586. Portions of Cartilage which necrosed, and were separated from the condyles of a Femur, after amputation through the knee-joint had been per- formed. The patient, a boy 14 years old, fractured his fibula, and there followed severe diffused inflammation of the leg, rendering its removal necessary. The skin flaps retracted so as in a few days to expose the condyles, wh^n the piece of cartilage, along with smaller fragments, loosened and were removed. ULCERATION OF ARTICULAR CARTILAGE. 587. A Patella, from which nearly all the articular cartilage has been removed by ulceration. The ulceration appears to have extended from the free surface towards the bone ; the margins of the remaining peripheral part of the cartilage are either abrupt and smooth, as if cut with a curved chisel, or, in parts, thinly prolonged over the surface of the bone. All the cartilage that remains has retained its natural firm connection with the bone. . The part of the surface of the patella which is exposed by the ulceration of the cartilage is itself superficially ulcerated and covered with lymph. n. 9