DISEASES OF BONES. 27 205. The anterior surface of a Patella, which exfoliated after an injury to the front of the knee. L ^44 206. Section of the lower part of a Tibia. A portion of its outer wall is sepa- rated after necrosis. Externally, the sequestrum is completely covered in by a layer of new bone a quarter of an inch thick. Internally, the sequestrum is separated from the cancellous tissue by a layer of tough white tissue, half a line thick, between which and the dead bone bristles are placed. The tibia is gene- rally increased by formation of new bone upon its surface. I. 2GG The patient was a young labouring man, m whom ulcers of the integuments of the shin had existed for more than a year. They were attended with great pain, and he had frequent attacks of acute inflammation in the integuments and periosteum, disabling him from work, and mate- rially affecting his general health. The existence of necrosis was only suspected. The dead bone could not be touched, being completely covered by new bone and periosteum. The patient recovered after amputation of the leg below the knee. 207. Portions of a Tibia which were separated by exfoliation. ]. 161 From a girl 12 years old. 208. Portion of a Tibia exhibiting a superficial Necrosis of its walls. The formation of the groove between the dead and the living bone has commenced ; and there is a deposit of new bone around the dead bone. I. 188 209. The other section of the Tibia shown in the preceding Specimen. A. 103 For other Specimens of Necrosis of the Superficial Layer, vide Nos. 18, 19, 20, 28, 238, 239, 251, 336. (In Case F.) NECROSIS OF CANCELLOUS TISSUE. 210. A Clavicle, in which a portion of the cancellous texture near its sternal end has suffered necrosis. The dead bone lies loose within a cavity, in which it is partially exposed by apertures formed in the surrounding walls of the bone. i. 193 211. Portion of a Eadius, in which Necrosis in a portion of its lower end and articular surface has taken place. A groove between the dead and the living part of the bone indicates that a separation of the former was taking place. There is abundant deposit of new bone on the sound bone immediately around the diseased part. x 73 212. Part of a Femur. In the lower section an oval cavity contains a portion of necrosed bone, having a rough, irregular surface, impacted above and below. The osseous tissue around the cavity is dense and extremely hard ; the ordinary cancellous structure is scarcely recognizable, save just above the line of the epi- physis, between which and the articular cartilage there is a whitish, granular deposit. The cartilage retains a natural appearance. The entire inner condyle, and the shaft in the vicinity of the cavity, are considerably enlarged, but no new bone is deposited around the necrosed portion, nor is the periosteum materially thickened. l 3^2 From a young man whose limb was amputated on account of the disease. 213. A Section of the lower end of a Femur. A small sequestrum lies loose in the lower end of the medullary canal, which is much enlarged. A large deposit of new bone surrounds the lower extremity of the shaft. The knee-joint was not affected. From a man aged 29, who was admitted into the hospital on account of disease of the bono Ward%oTyTl ^Sfi*' *** anil)utilk>d ilfc his rcquest.-See Kenton