DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE 270 semi-transparent or gelatinous in aspect, and several of them were attached to the mucous membrane of the nose by long narrow pedicles. xxm. 7 1766. Polypi removed from the Nose. They are of firm semi-transparent texture, and, with the one which is suspended, a large portion of the inferior spongy bone is connected. xxm. 9 1767. Two Polypi, like those last described, attached by narrow pedicles to the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid bone. xxm. 10 1768. A large lobed Polypus of soft texture, which was extracted from the nose. A portion of it which hung into the fauces is opaque, apparently from the thickening of its investing membrane; the rest is sof t and more nearly trans- parent. ° XXIIL 24 It was removed from a young lady in whom obscure signs of its existence had been loDg observed It was attached to the mucous membrane of the nose by the narrow portion by which it is now suspended. The larger part of it lay in, and projected from, the posterior aperture of the nostrils, through which also the whole mass was extracted by seizing the portion which was hanging in the fauces. 1769. A similar, but larger and more deeply lobed Polypus, which was also extracted through the fauces. xxm. 25 The patient was an elderly lady. She had long observed the disease, and had herself removed portions of the polypus, by seizing it with pincers whenever she could force it towards the cavity of the mouth, and cutting it with scissors. The part which was thus cut presents a cicatrised surface. 1770. The right side of a Child's head, in which the nasal passages are com- pletely filled by lobulated polypous growths from the mucous membrane. The section of one of the largest growths displays a pale, pinkish, and obscurely fibrous texture, firmer and less transparent than that of the common gelatinous -, • xxm. 16 polypi. ' The growth of these polypi was very rapid. They proved fatal by suffocating the child, for they filled the nasal passages and pressed down the soft palate so as to obstruct the fauces. TUMOURS OF THE ANTRUM AND NOSE. 1771 Part of the right side of a Face, in which the antrum and other nasal cavities and passages are completely filled by a soft medullary tumour, which also projects with an extensive sloughing surface through the skm of the cheek, and through the anterior part of the gum and of the hard palate. xxm. 8 1772. The Left side of a Face, with a soft Medullary Tumour filling the antrum, and thence extending into the nostrils, and into the cavities of the mouth and orbit The parts of the tumour exposed are broken and flocculent, as if sloughing. ™- 13 Presented by J. H. B. Williams, Esq. 1773 Section of a large Tumour, formed in the face of a lad 16 years old. The greater part of it occupies the situation of the superior maxillary bones, which are completely absorbed. Above, the tumour has extended through the left side of the base of the skull into its cavity, where it forms a large projection in the situation of the anterior lobes of the cerebrum; below, it is united to the soft palate; in front, it protrudes, distends the left nostril, and has caused the nlceration of a part of the integuments of the face. The outer surface of the tumour is nodulated; its interior, shown by the section, is formed of close- set nodules and masses of cartilage, partially and irregularly ossified, and in