CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. 571) growing very slowly, and causing very little inconvenience. Three months before the patient s admission int o the Hospital, it had grown very rapidly, and had caused severe pain. Thefcumour was laid open under the belief that it was a ganglion, connected with the sheath of the flexor tendons. Subsequently the leg was amputated. 212. Cast of a deep-seated Naevus or Vascular Tumour, occupying the side of the lower part of the face and the upper part of the neck, in a female child, aged six months. It was first observed about six weeks after birth, and was then about the size of a pea. It rapidly increased until it attained the size exhibited in the cast. It was successfully treated by the introduction of setons, which were kept in for some months before the whole tumour disappeared. Presented by Mr. Macilwain, by whom the case is described in the eighth volume of the Medico- Chirurgical Transactions. URINARY CALCULI. 213. The Cast of a Calculus, which weighed nearly fifteen ounces. It was extracted by the lateral operation from the bladder of a man, aged 26 years, who had suffered from symptoms of stone from childhood. The wound healed perfectly, and he recovered from the operation, but was never afterwards a strong man. He died some years subsequently of disease of the kidneys and lungs. 214. Cast of a Calculus, weighing fourteen ounces and two drachms, which was extracted from a man's Bladder by Mr. Charles Mayo. The case is described in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xi, p. 54. 215. Cast of a Calculus, removed from a man's Bladder by Mr. Cheselden. The original is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. 216. Cast of a Calculus removed from a man's Bladder. From its shape it may be supposed to be formed by the union of two calculi. 217. Cast of a Calculus from the Bladder of a boy. Presented by Richard Smith, Esq. 218. Cast of a Calculus, nearly as large as the preceding, removed from a man's Bladder by Mr. George Bell. 219. Cast of a Calculus, extracted from the Bladder of a man, 42 years old, by Mr. John Lawrence. 220. Casts of Calculi, naturally expelled from the Bladder of a woman, 50 years old. J 221. Cast of a Calculus, expelled through the urethra of a lady, without previous dilatation. In its least diameters it measures an inch and an inch and a quarter; in length it measures two inches. Presented with the preceding, by F. F. Griraud, Esq. 222. Cast of a Calculus expelled from the Urinary Bladder of a girl, 14 years old, after repeated dilatations of the urethra with sponge-tents. From its size and shape it may be supposed to have nearly filled the bladder. Presented by G-eorge Witt, Esq. 223. Cast of a Calculus, extracted, after dilatation of the urethra from the Bladder of a girl, 17 years old. 224. Cast of a large Calculus, removed from the Bladder of a horse by Mr William Field. The horse completely recovered. ' 2 p 2