512 GENERAL PATHOLOGY. the lower a membranous cyst hangs. The left section shows several cysts filled with a soft brain-like very vascular substance. The rectum is exposed by the division of the sacrum. vol. ii. a. 187 From an infant, born at full term. 3375. Part of a larsre Tumour removed from a woman's nates. The tumour O consisted chiefly of a collection of cysts, with tough fibrous walls, lined by smooth membrane, and variously filled. Some contained serous fluid; some a thicker, creamy, or fatty matter; in some were small bundles of hair, loose, or inserted in their walls. Other parts of the tumour consisted of solid substance, in which irregular masses of bone were imbedded. vol. n. a. 180 The patient was a woman about 50 years old. The tumour was congenital, and bad grown to the size of the patient's head. It was pendulous from the nates, and parts of it had sup- purated. Its deeper attachments were closely connected with the coccyx, rectum, and vagina. The patient recovered perfectly after its removal; a small sinus remained at one portion of the wound, but no recurrence of the growth ensued. 3376. The portions of Bone obtained by maceration from the tumour last described. They are of irregular nodulated forms, and not comparable with any of the natural bones of the skeleton. VOL. u. A. 181 II. CYSTS FROM EXTRAVASATIONS OF BLOOD. 3377. Portion of Dura Mater, upon the surface of which there is an adventitious membrane, in the form of a sac which was filled by coagulated blood. The membrane is of a dense texture, and of about the thickness of the dura mater. Portions of the blood still remain attached to the inner walls of the sac. vi. 52 3378. A specimen, showing Cystic Degeneration of a Corpus Imtenm. The ovary was found with a large mass of omentum in an inguinal hernia on the left side of a woman, aged 35 years : it is larger than natural. Two corpora lutea are seen in its substance ; one, near the surface, presents a normal appear- ance ; the other, near the centre, appears as a large cavity, an inch in diameter, filled with partially decolorised grumous blood, which escaped when the ovary was incised. The opposite ovary is preserved in Sub-Series A, No. 207. III. CYST OF PRIMARY ORIGIN.. 3379. A Cyst in a Pectoral Muscle connected with tumours, character unknown, of the breast and liver. CYSTS OF UNCERTAIN NATURE. 3380. Portion of a Diaphragm, in the substance of which, between its pleural and peritoneal coverings, there is a cyst of lobulated form, containing a serous fluid. The cyst may have originated in one of the lymphatic vessels of the diaphragm. A drawing is preserved, No. 595. 3381. A Cyst, removed from beneath the skin covering the lower part of the scapula. It was filled with a fluid resembling venous blood. Its walls are soft, and its interior is polished, but rendered irregular by numerous decussating prominent ridges, which give it a striking resemblance to the interior of an auricle. Its walls are from half a line to two lines in thickness : at the parts where they are thickest, they contain numerous small cysts filled with a dark coloured fluid. xxxv. 38 The patient was a lad, 15 years old. The tumour had existed eight years ; it had grown rapidly for a year, and given pain for throe months previous to its removal. Presented by George Macilwain, Esq.