488 GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 3251. A congenital Fatty Tumour, containing a stalk of hyaline cartilage. It was removed from the perineum of a boy 6 months old. Two warty growths having the same structure as the tumour projected from its surface ; one from the front, the other from the back.—See Stanley Ward Book, vol. vi. p. 33, and Lucas Ward Book, vol. v, p. 322. xxxv. 152 FATTY TUMOURS, PORTIONS OF "WHICH HAVE UNDERGONE CALCIFI- CATION. 3252. Portion of a Fatty Tumour, which extended along the whole front of the thigh, and weighed several pounds. The tumour is divided by septa of dense connective tissue, which in places had undergone calcification, and thus large plates of bone have been formed. It was removed from an Arab Sheik. Presented by Dr. Mackie, of Alexandria. 3253. A large Fatty Tumour, containing at its lower part a large mass of bone- like tissue, probably formed by calcification of the connective tissue septa. It was removed after deatli from a man, aged 94 years, and had existed fifty years, reaching its present size thirty years before death. Presented by R. Oke Clarke, Esq. 3254. A pendulous Fatty Tumour removed after death from the upper and inner part of the thigh of a man, aged 73 years. The patient stated that it had existed as long as he could remember. A large round mass of calcified tissue is cut across at the upper part of the tumour. Presented by Alfred Winkfield, Esq. 3255. A large, flat, lobulated, Fatty Tumour, removed from the thigh. In the centre of the tumour is an irregular mass of substance like bone. xxxv. 11 SLOUGHING OF THE SKIN OVER FATTY TUMOURS. 3256. A large Fatty Tumour, removed from a perineum. Its base was imbedded in the sub-cutaneous fat, and it was pendulous. It has the ordinary lobed structure and general characters of its kind ; but it protruded, at its most dependent part, through the skin, and here displays its difference from a protruding cancerous growth. Its exposed lobes project but little beyond the ulcerated opening in the skin; one of them has a thin slough on it; the others are scarcely different from those that lie deeply. The edges of the ulcerated opening are thinly bevelled, inverted, partly covered with new cuticle, like those of a healing ulcer; and at part of the opening they appear united with the subjacent surface of the tumour. xxxv. 69 The patient was a stout, healthy woman, 59 years old. The tumour had been growing for seven years. OSSEOUS TUMOURS—OSTEOMATA. 3257. An Inferior Maxilla. Two symmetrical eburnated exostoses spring from the inner surface of the alveolar portion of the bone on either side of the symphisis, corresponding in position to the bicuspids and ffrst molar teeth. The markings and slight lobulations of the bony outgrowths are also more or less symmetrical. The rami of the jaw are unusually widely separated. The bone was found in a churchyard; it is evidently that of a young person, since the " wisdom " teeth have not yet appeared. Presented by Mr. Emnboll. 3258. Portions of a Tumour removed from the inferior border of the scapula. The greater part of the tumour, including all that by which it was attached to the scapula, consists of hard cancellous bone, the cells of which, formed like