1B4 DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. and the muscular ridges are well marked. The pelvis is slightly compressed antero-posteriorly. (In Case A.) 1112. A Spine and Pelvis. The spine presents an acute angular ^J?^1* dorsal re-ion, the consequence of the destruction by ulceration of the bodies oi the last nine dorsal and the first lumbar vertebra. Two of the ribs are united by bone to the spine. The pelvis is well formed. (In Case C.) 1113. A Spine, Thorax, and Pelvis. There has been ulceration of the, bodiesof the lumbar vertebra*, and of the sacrum m its whole extent. Four ot the bodies of the lumbar vertebra, are destroyed and an angle is formed^by the approximation of the vertebra, above and below the situation of_the disease their union by bone is incomplete. The thorax is depressed antenoily, so that a space of only two inches and a half intervenes between the en«£o™^tilage and the ossa pubis, and the false ribs nearly touch the crests of the the ribs arch upwards, and the sternum arches forwards. (In Case C.) For other Specimens, see Nos. 1064 and 1071. LATERAL CTJRVATTJBE. 1114 A Spine, Thorax, and Pelvis, from an adult woman. All the dorsal and the first two lumbar vertebrae are comprised in a lateral curve, the convexity of which is directed to the right, and backwards. _ There are slight ™™V™^% curves in the cervical and lower lumbar regions of the spine. The bodies ot the vertebrae and intervertebral spaces are much deeper m the convexity than m the concavity of the curve ; they are also twisted round, so that what were their anterior surf aces are directed outwards, towards the convexity of the curve, thfe outward direction being chiefly observed in those vertebra, which are m the Sle of the curve, while those at each end of it gradually approach nearS to their natural direction. The thorax projects obliquely or ward and to the left, and its sides are flattened. The posterior portions of the right ribs are directed downwards, lying nearly in contact with the vertebra,; and then, abruptly round the vertebra, the ribs are directed forwards and to he left with narrow intercostal spaces. The left ribs crowded together- in the concavity of the curve, are directed almost horizontally first outwards and ?hen straight forwards; only their extreme ends and their cartilages being directed inwards to the sternum. The sternum and anterior walls of the thorax are arched as much as the lateral walls are in their natural state while the lateral walls are as flat as the anterior should be. The cavity of the pelvis is of ordinary size, but its anteroposterior axis, m correspondence with the obliquity of the lumbar vertebra,, is directed obliquely, from before backwards, and from right to left. (In Case C) 1115 A Soine Thorax, and Pelvis. The middle of the dorsal region of the "nine is strongly curved towards the left and backwards and there are com- Sensatfng curves to the right and forwards above and be ow this. The description of the preceding specimen will almost exactly apply to this speci- ™n except that in this the principal curve is directed to the left, m that, to the right; and that in this specimen the thorax is less flattened at its sides. d. 25 (In Case C.) 1116 Skeleton of an aged woman, in which, with curvatures of the spine and an altered form of the chest, there is atrophy of the bones in the right lower limb. The spine has suffered three distinct curves, one to the left in the loins a second to the right implicating the lower dorsal vertebra,, and the third to the