DISEASES AND INJURIES OF VEINS. 247 below by some ecchymosed tissues, and here the small venous branches are occluded by old clots, continuous with the large one seen m the femoralxni UQ From a man, aged 73, who died from bronchitis eleven days after sustaining **«^**» left femur at the great trochanter. There was great eoohymosia of all the soft parts aiound, <£2^£totE&* of the femoral vessels. The leg and foot were slightly edematous. 1598. Part of a Femoral Vein where it is joined by the profunda. The latter vessel is obstructed with firm clots which extend up into the femoral, forming m its interior an irregular mass of a pale colour. The coagula in the profunda were traced to a considerable eccbymosis which involved the structures about a fracture of the right femur, more especially in the inner aud posterior aspect of the thigh. The entire extremity was cedematous. The fracture, which had occurred ten weeks prior to the patient's death, was still ununited. XIII. 158 The patient, a man, aged 12, died from an attack of continued fever. 1599. A Femoral Vein, from a man, aged 42 years. It is filled with blood, which coagulated in it a few days before death. The same condition was prese nted by all the veins of both arms and legs. The patient's illness, which was ascribed to phlebitis, began three weeks before death. 1600. Part of an external Saphena Vein. In consequence of a morbid growth involving and extending from the lower part of the femur of a young woman, the principal veins of the leg became obstructed by clots giving rise to marked cedema. The veins shrank upon the clots as the latter contracted, so that their canals in the midst of cedematous tissue were much reduced in size, and their walls appeared thickened, as though from inflammation. By injecting water they were easily restored to their natural size and appearance, as shown in the preparation. 1^7 For other specimens of Coagula in Veins, vide Nos. 1271, 1442, 1459, 1556,1571, 1571b. ORGANIZATION, AND CALCIFICATION OF BLOOD-CLOTS IN "VEINS. 1601. External Pubic Veins from a Horse. The coats of the veins are sound. Within the cavity of one of them there are firm coagula of blood attached to the inner surface of the vein by solid round cords, behind some of which bristles are passed. One of these cords extends between two of the coagula, without having any attachment to the inside of the vein. XIII. 107 1602. Two Coagula of Blood, which were found attached to the inside of one of the veins preserved in the preceding specimen. The section of one coagulum shows that it consists of regularly arranged layers of fibrin. The other coagulum is enclosed in three distinct cysts, of which the outer two are membranous, and the inner consists chiefly of bone. XIII. 108 1603. A portion of an External Saphena Vein, containing masses of calcareous matter, which fill here and there the entire canal of the vessel, the walls being contracted around them. They are probably the remains of blood-clots. From the body of a man, aged 46 years, brought into the dissection rooms. 1604. A long and slender branching piece of Bone, from the liver of a Sheep. It was probably formed in obliterated branches of the portal vein. XIII. 93 OBLITERATION OF VEINS. 1605. Portion of a Vena Cava Inferior, from a woman, aged 35 years, who died with epithelial cancer of the uterus, and amyloid degeneration of the liver, spleen, kidneys, and small arteries of the intestines. The cavity of the vein is completely obliterated for about one inch, from a point just below the entrance