306 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE INTESTINES. 2010. Small Intestine, with Ulceration of the Mucous Membrane, probably tubercular. From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2011. Extensive Tubercular Ulcers of Small Intestines, showing their transverse direction to the axis of the canal. From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2012. Portion of Small Intestine, with tubercular ulcers extending completely around its canal; their surfaces are rough and irregular, their edges raised above the level of the adjacent membrane. Tubercles are deposited around, and in the tissues between the bases of the ulcers and the peritoneal coat, projecting in whitish masses upon the serous surface. At two points the ulcers have all but perforated the coats of the intestinal canal.—See St. Bartho- lomew's Hospital Reports, vol. vi, p. 239. XVI- l"'* 2013. A specimen similar to the preceding, but the lower and central ulcers have partially healed, and in the upper two, small perforations exist. xvi. 105 2014. Portion of a Jejunum, with a tubercular ulcer of its mucous membrane. The ulcer is of an oval form, and penetrates, at one point, the coats of the intestine. There are small tubercles beneath the corresponding portion of the peritoneum. XVI- ^ 2015. Portion of a Jejunum, in which a tubercular ulcer has completely per- forated its coats, making an aperture nearly half an inch in diameter at the bottom of an ulcer of rather wider extent. At the upper part of the intestine there is another ulcer, which has at one part extended through the muscular, as well as the mucous, coat. The peritoneal coat of the intestine is thinly covered by soft lymph. XVI- ' ^ 2016. Portion of a Colon, in which a large superficial ulcer has nearly cicatrised. The healed surface is contracted and irregularly wrinkled; and there are several small oval apertures in it, which have smooth margins and edges. xvi. 71 From a patient, 50 years old, in whose lungs there were several masses of calcareous sub- stance, and dry grey tubercles, but who died of a disease independent of the condition of both the lungs and the intestines. Part of the lung is preserved in Series XI, No. 1726. SIMPLE STRICTURE. 2017. Portion of a descending Colon, the canal of which is at one part suddenly reduced to a quarter of an inch in diameter. Its walls at this part are slightly thickened and indurated, and a narrow band passes across its canal, dividing into two small apertures the orifice by which the portions above and below the stricture communicate. The appearances are as if there had been an ulcer^ of the mucous membrane, the healing of which had been attended by contraction of the surrounding intestinal walls and adhesion of a part of its opposite surfaces. Both above and below the stricture the tissue of the colon appeared healthy : but its canal below was very small, while above it was enormously distended with faeces, and burst about two inches from the stricture. xvi. 82 The patient was a lady about 30 years old. She had been for three years subject to occasional attacks of obstinate constipation, which were generally followed by diarrhoea. Four months before her death, the obstruction of the intestines became complete, and after this time she had no ftecal evacuation. The cause of obstruction was found to be a cherry-stone which had lodged above the stricture in the colon, and completely closed the canal. Presented by Thomas Wormald, Esq. 2018. Stricture, apparently non-cancerous, of the ascending Colon, five inches from the ileo-csecal valve. The canal is contracted very considerably, and