181 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE PERICARDIUM, ETC. 1223. A Heart, with an abundant recent deposit of lymph upon the Pericardium. The lymph is deposited in a moderately firm layer, about a line thick, from the surface of which arise numerous growths, some of which are attached by slender pedicles. The bicuspid and aortic valves are thickened. The whole hearty is enlarged. Its vessels are injected, but it is doubtful whether any of the in- jection has penetrated the lymph. XII. 4 The patient, a woman 25 years old, was attacked with signs of pericarditis during recovery from acute rheumatism. These were subdued, and she appeared convalescent, when a second similar attack ensued, and was speedily fatal. 1224. A Heart and Pericardium. Lymph is deposited in a thin layer, minutely reticulated, and with some columnar processes attached to it, both upon the inner surface of the external portion of the pericardium and upon the surface of that which covers the heart. The heart is considerably enlarged, XII. 45 1225. A Heart and its Pericardium, the latter inflamed. Lymph is abundantly deposited on both portions of the pericardium in reticular membranous layers. 29 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1226. A Heart, with a very abundant deposit of lymph over the whole free surface ot the Pericardium. The lymph forms fine branching and shreddy processes of considerable length, which hang loosely within the sac of the pericardium. The heart is not materially enlarged. xn. 7 1227. A Heart, with Lymph deposited in thick layers, and in a coarsely reticular form, upon the surface of the Pericardium. The lymph appears soft, and blood is effused in many parts of it. The heart is much enlarged. xn. 8 1228. A Heart, with the sac of the Pericardium. The heart is generally enlarged, and lymph is abundantly deposited on both surfaces of the pericardium. The lymph is firm and closely adherent; part of its surface is regularly reticular; another part forms granular and warty eminences. The reflected pericardium is thickened and indurated. xil. 2 1229. A Heart, with both layers of the Pericardium completely adherent. A part of the reflected pericardium has been removed to show some apparently recent lymph beneath it. The heart is enlarged. " xir. 3 ride Nos. 1310, 1370, 1371. ORGANIZED ADHESIONS (Adherent Pericardium). 1230. A Heart, exhibiting the effects of inflammation of the Pericardium, with hypertrophy of its muscular substance, and disease of its valves. The peri- cardium is thickened ; lymph is deposited over its free surface ; and, in one situation, the pericardium is adherent to the heart. The walls of the left ventricle are considerably increased in thickness, and its cavity is enlarged. The mitral and aortic valves are thickened and opaque. xn. 39 From a boy 12 years old, who had many attacks of rheumatism. Presented by S. Or. Lawrance, Esq. 1231. Section of a Heart, with the corresponding portion of the Pericardium The pericardial sac was completely filled by lymph, of which this section shows a layer nearly an inch in thickness at one part. XII 5Q 1232. A Heart, on which there is a general and close adhesion of the Pericardium The adhesions are completely organized. The aortic valves are thickened con' tracted, and recurved ; and there is a warty mass of fibrin on one of them" The lining membrane of the aorta, and that of the heart below the aortic valve