DISEASES OF BONES, HYPERTROPHY. 1. A Skull-Cap, exhibiting great enlargement of all the bones in adaptation to the increased size of the brain from hydrocephalus. A. 181 The specimen was taken from a hydrocephalic dwarf, aged 28 years, who was idiotic and extremely rickety. He had never walked. (In Case E.) For other Specimens of Hydrocephalic Skull, see Nos. 2519 to 2521, Series XXX, and 3216, Series L. ATROPHY (and Arrest of Development). 2. A Scapula and part of a Humerus. The arm had been amputated long before death ; and through disuse, the bones are atrophied, but the humerus in a much greater degree than the scapula. The shaft of the humerus has less than half its natural diameter and tapers to a slender cone, at the end of which is some rough new bone. The marks of the attachments of muscles on it are nearly obliterated, and its texture is light and dry. The head of the humerus is flattened and almost entirely absorbed, and there is a corresponding diminution and change of form in the glenoid cavity. A. 157 (In CaseE.) 3. Sections of the stump of a Humerus, exhibiting the results of Atrophy from long disuse after amputation. Its sawn end tapers to a small cone; the walls of the shaft are less than a line in thickness, light and dry ; and nearly all the osseous part of its cancellous tissue being removed, the medullary tube'appears, after maceration, like a smooth-walled cavity. L g\ 4. Pelvis and Lower Extremities of a young man. All the bones of the right side are atrophied. The several prominences on the right os innominatnm are less marked, and its iliac fossa is more shallow, than the corresponding parts on the left side. The bones of the right thigh and leg are all shorter, less in circumference, softer, and lighter, than those of the left limb. From the hip- joint to the ankle there is a difference of nearly two inches in the length of the limbs. In compensation for this difference, the left foot is directed almost vertically, so that in the erect position of the body (in imitation of which the bones are arranged) the extremities of the toes of both limbs are at the same level. All the bones of the right foot are slender, small, and soft. The arch of the sole is much increased by the posterior part of the os calcis proiectino- more than usually downwards. The shaft of the left femur is enlarged bv external deposit of new bone. The muscles of the right limb were small and in a state of fatty degeneration. A The right limb had probably been affected with Infantile Paralysis (In Case B.) J