160 DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. 1089. Four lower Dorsal Vertebras, and three Ribs. They are all united by smooth layers of bone extending, like bridges, over the anterior and lateral surfaces of the bodies of the vertebras, and thence laterally over the heads of the ribs. Some of the articular processes are similarly united. d. 9 (In Case C.) 1090. A Sacrum and the fifth Lumbar Vertebra, Their articular processes^ are united by layers of bone, extended over their anterior surfaces. There is slight " lipping" of the upper margin of the body of the last lumbar vertebra. ^ (In Case C.) 1091. A Sacrum, with the fifth Lumbar Vertebra. Their corresponding arti- cular processes on the left side are united by bone. There is also a projecting formation of bone along the upper margin of the first sacral vertebra, and the articular surface of the right superior articular process of the last lumbar vertebra is eburnated and worm-eaten, as in rheumatic disease of other joints. The canal of the sacrum is open posteriorly in its whole extent. d. 35 (In Case C.) DISPLACEMENTS AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. DISPLACEMENTS DUE TO DISEASE. 1092. Section of the upper part of the Spine, of the Occipital Bone, and of the Spinal Cord. The connections of the second cervical vertebra, with the first, and with the occipital bone, having been destroyed, apparently by ulceration, the anterior portion of the first vertebra, and the basilar portion of the occipital bone have sunk down, so that the lower margin of the first vertebra is within a line of the upper margin of the intervertebral substance between the second and the third ; and the whole of the odontoid process of the second projects straight upwards into the cavity of the skull. The medulla oblongata is thus lifted up and stretched over the apex of the odontoid process ; and, as the pons holds its connection with the basilar portion of the occipital bone, the axis of the medulla oblongata forms a right angle with the axis of the spinal cord. The displaced bones are held together by the thickened and consolidated adjacent tissues. Their texture appears indurated, but not otherwise diseased. iv. 38 The patient was a woman 32 years old. The most prominent sign of the disease, which was of four years' duration, was a constant acute pain at the hack of the neck, just helow the occiput. She had some difficulty of swallowing, and used to sit with her chin on her hand, or resting on her sternum. But she suffered no loss of sensation, and was able to walk on the day before her death. Some of the dorsal vertebrae were also affected with caries. Presented by John Avery, Esq. 1093. The Upper portion of the Cervical Spine. The atlas is displaced forwards and to the left side, and is firmly anchylosed to the axis. By the displacement of the atlas the spinal canal is much narrowed and converted into an elongated fissure. The odontoid process and body of the axis have been partially destroyed. IV- 38a The displacement was probably the result of carious disease. The history of the case is not known. 1094. Portion of a Spine, showing caries of the bodies of the second and third cervical vertebrae. The remaining bone is softened and yellow. The odontoid process has been completely separated at its base from the body of the second vertebra. IV- Vide Nos. 1074, 1075.