DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. 450 From a woman who died of cancerous peritonitis and obstruction of the bowels. The fibrous hypertrophy was originally simple, haying existed many years. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. UTERINE FIBROIDS (Myo-fibromata.) 2978. A Uterus, showing a minute sub-peritoneal Fibroid, and a smaller pedunculated fibroid. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 2979. A Uterus, with two small Fibrous Tumours. One of these tumours was attached by a small pedicle, which has given way. The other is but slightly fixed to the wall of the uterine cavity, which was dilated round it and in close apposition with its surface. XXXII. 8 2980. Section of a Uterus, with a firm Fibrous Tumour imbedded in the middle of its anterior wall. The vessels of the uterus are minutely injected; but none of the injection appears in the morbid growth. xxxn. 6 2981. Portion of a Uterus, with a Fibrous Tumour imbedded in it. The tumour is of oval form, smooth on its external surface, and composed of a firm, dense, greyish substance, partitioned and variously intersected by white shining bands. It is but loosely connected with the substance of the uterus; and has been partially separated from the uterine wall. xxxn. 7 2982. A Uterus and its appendages. A small Fibrous Tumour projects from its posterior wall, and through this an incision has been made to show the structure characteristic of these growths. XXXII. 67 2983. Portion of a large Fibrous Tumour of the Uterus, which weighed upwards of two pounds. It occupied the whole interior of the organ, the walls of which were expanded around it. Presented by Dr. Ross. 2984. A Fibrous Tumour of the Uterus, which was pendulous in the vagina, projecting as a polypus through the os uteri. A thin layer of uterine substance which was continued over the whole of the presenting surface of the tumour, is partially reflected from it. xxxv. 79 Tbe tumour was removed by excision. The patient, a middle-aged woman, recovered after the operation. 2985. An Intramural Fibroid of the Fundus Uteri. The patient died of flooding from the spontaneous opening of a uterine sinus at its lowest PaT*The case is described and figured in the Edinburgh Medical Journal, 1863. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 2986. A Uterus, deformed by the growth of several Fibroids. Their loose capsules are well seen. 'One ovary is greatly hypertrophied. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 2987. A Uterus, the upper half of which is enlarged by the growth of numerous Fibrous Tumours in its walls. One tumour, larger than the rest, projects into the dilated upper part of the cavity of the uterus, and completely fills it; five others are shown, by the section, imbedded in the anterior wall, and many others project upon the external surface of the uterus. The lower half of the uterus is healthy, but elongated. The walls of the portion occupied by the tumours are thick and laminated, like the walls of the uterus in pregnancy. XXKIT. 16