DISEASES OF BONES. phalanx is expanded around a large cartilaginous tumour, having the same general structure as those in the preceding specimen. Half the tumour has been removed from the investment or shell of bone and periosteum extended round it. I. 285 The tumours had been growing, without any known cause, from early childhood, till the hand and finger were amputated. Drawings of this and the two preceding specimens are preserved, Nos. 19, 20, 21. Presented, with the preceding, by Mr. Joseph Hodgson. 416. Sections of a Little Finger, and of the Metacarpal Bone of the Fore Finger of a lad 17 years old. The greater part of the cancellous tissue of the shaft of the metacarpal bone is filled with a minutely lobed, pale greyish mass of cartilage, like that of the foetal skeleton, which also, projecting through an absorbed portion of the wall, forms an hemispherical tumour rising from the shaft. A similar growth of cartilage exists within, and projects in a tumour beyond the first phalanx of the little finger; but in this instance the wall of the bone is not penetrated by the cartilage, but has grown in a thin layer around it. A poi-tion of the medullary tube of the second phalanx of this finger contains a similar growth of cartilage, but scarcely any external tumour or enlargement of the bone is observable. L 283 The patient had on his left hand four, and on his right hand six tumours such as these, but these alone were troublesome and increasing. The tumours had begun to grow when he was five years old, and their growth had been irregular, some increasing, while others remained st ationary. 417. An Enchondroma involving the first phalanx of the Middle Finger, removed from a woman aged 52 years. It had existed for about three years. 35. 141 418. Section of a Femur, and of a large spheroidal Tumour which has formed around it. In the upper part of the bone a fracture occurred several years before death. The two portions of bone overlapping have firmly united. The tumour, which nearly surrounds the middle of the shaft, is composed of fibro- cartilage. A portion of the same substance occupies the corresponding part of the medullary cavity, in which the disease has apparently commenced. I. Ill Microscopic Examination.—The tumour consists of round and oval cells embedded in a matrix, which is for the most part fibrillated, but in places hyaline. See microscopic sections, No. 9 ; and drawing, A. 2. 419. The other Section of the Femur last described. Its walls are irregularly thickened, with expansion of their texture and deposit of new bone on their exterior ; and together with irregular cavities in the medullary tube, there is thickening and induration of its osseous tissue. r. 112 420. Section of a Humerus from the same person as the last-described Femur. It was fractured through the middle of its shaft some years before death. The fracture has firmly united, with a perfect apposition of the ends of the bone, and without any obliteration of its medullary cavity ; but there is the same disease of the walls and the cancellous tissue as there is in the femur. i. 113 421. The other half of the preceding Specimen, macerated. r. 114 422. Section of a large Tumour growing from the lower part of a Femur, and composed of nodules of cartilage intermixed with osseous matter. Part of the morbid structure extends through the wall of the femur with which it is con- nected, and through the interior almost to the opposite side. I. 25 423. Section of a Femur, and of part of a large Enchondi^oma which closely surrounds it. The tumour exhibits various textures. The great part of it con- sists of a pale, whitish, firm sixbstance, traversed by fibres and mixed with