351 DISEASES OP THE THYMUS AND THYROID GLANDS. formed by the distended tissue of the gland ; its interior is rough, and has a large quantity of lymph deposited upon it, some of which hangs in it m loose shreds. At its upper part, the cavity of the cyst communicates with that of the pharynx by a narrow ulcerated aperture (indicated by a piece of glass) near the arytenoid cartilae-e. The isthmus and left lobe of the gland are healthy. J xxn. 1G The patient was an elderly woman, and the enlargement of the gland had long existed. The oyst at first contained a fluid-like serum, which, when withdrawn, spontaneously coagulated. After being twice emptied, the walls of the cyst inflamed, audit was rapidly filled with pus and lymph.; its wall ulcerated, and the ulceration extending through the adjacent part of the pharynx, the patient was suffocated by the sudden discharge of its contents, and the passage of some of them into the larynx. ENLARGEMENT WITH DEPOSITS OF CALCAREOUS MATTER. 2315. A Thyroid Gland, of which one of the lobes is enlarged to three or four times its natural size. Portions of the large lobe are indurated ; and in these portions are many deposits of earthy matter. The other lobe and the isthmus of the gland are rather smaller than is natural. xxn. 13 2316. A Larynx and Trachea dried, with large round masses of earthy matter which were contained in a diseased thyroid gland. xxn. 9 2317. Portions of earthy matter, in the form of cysts, from a bronchocele. xxn.12 Vide No. 2313. MORBID GROWTHS. 2318. A New-Growth in the Thyroid Gland, from a man aged 43 years. The supra-renal capsules and numerous lymphatic glands, principally the deep cervical, mesenteric, and lumbar, were similarly affected. There were also large masses of new-growth in the liver, which weighed 10 lbs. 12 ozs., in the pancreas, and in the kidneys. Upwards of one hundred small nodules were found in the integument on the anterior surface of the trunk. 2319. A New-Growth in the Thyroid Gland, from a man aged 48 years. Symptoms of pressure on the trachea existed for ten months before death, which occurred suddenly.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. i, p. 239, and Pathological Society's Transaction, vol. xx, p. 393.