46 DISEASES OF BONES. ulcerated margins. There are also irregular superficial ulcerations on the external table of both the parietal bones, and on many other parts of the skull are appearances indicating unnatural vascularity. A- iZ* (In Case F.) 340. Portion of a Skull-Cup, exhibiting Necrosis of a previously diseased portion of its outer table. a. 117 From a patient who had a suppurating node upon the cranium in the situation and to the extent of the surface of bone which has perished. (In Case F.) 341. A Sequestrum, consisting of the entire thickness of the greater part of the Frontal Bone. The outer surface is rough and carious; the inner, which was m contact with the dura mater, is jagged and spiculated. The portion of bone was removed by operation from a man aged 31 years. Ten years before he contracted primary syphilis, but had no secondary symptoms. The disease ot the frontal bone commenced about a year before his admission to the hospital. He recovered trom tne operation.—See Hurley Ward Book, vol. xii, p. 27. 342. A Skull-Cap, exhibiting some of the effects of syphilis. In some situations there has been a complete destruction of the bone through both tables of the skull; at the borders of the apertures thus made the disease seems to have stopped, and the parts appear to have cicatrised, for their edges are thm, smooth, and hard. In other situations ulceration appears to have been m progress, the bone in these parts exhibiting a rough surface, porous texture, and many small deeply penetrating holes. The spaces left by the removal of the bone are filled by membrane, in which there are several small deposits of new bone ; and the outer surfaces of all the portions of the skull which remain between the ulcers are tnberculated, seamed, and starred, as in No. 313 et seq. a. 58 (In Case F.) 343. A Skull-Cap, large portions of which have been destroyed by syphilitic ulceration like that in the preceding specimen. a. 59 The two preceding specimens were taken from patients who died in the venereal wards of the hospital while Mr. Pott was surgeon. (In Case F.) 344. Section of a girl's face, in which syphilitic Necrosis and Ulceration affected large portions of the maxillary and malar bones. The separate portions of bone were exfoliated. *• 345. Six portions of hard closely cancellous bone removed from the cavities of a nose. They appear to be parts of diseased turbinated bones, which had suffered necrosis after being exceedingly enlarged, thickened, and indurated. I. 257 The patient was 40 years old ; he had had syphilitic disease of one testicle, and had been for twelve years liable to syphilitic pains in the limbs, when he received a severe injury of the nose in a fall. This disease of the bones followed the injury. It was very slow in its progress, and the portions of bone here shown were not more than half of what was removed. After their removal the patient remained well and without deformity of the nose. 346. Portions of the Palate and Vomer of a young woman, aged 27. The bones came away through the nostrils. She had suffered from Syphilis for seven years. 347. Portion of the wall of a Tibia separated by exfoliation. The dead bone, which had been diseased some time before it perished, is porous and rough on its outer surface ; it comprises a part only of the thickness of the wall. The disease was connected with syphilitic periostitis. 2L0