DISPLACEMENTS OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL AND OMENTUM. 2137. The left Testicle and Vaginal Process taken from the same patient as the preceding specimen. The testicle had descended into the scrotum, but the vaginal process is patent: a rod of glass is inserted into it. 2138. Congenital Hernia, from an adult. The roll of paper is passed through the inguinal canal into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis, in the place formerly occupied by the protruded intestine. XYli. 7 Dissected by Percival Pott, Esq. 2139. Congenital Hernia from an adult, for the relief of which herniotomy was performed. The testicle and the hernial sac are situated within the inguinal canal. The upper border of the mouth of the sac was divided. xvn. 38 2140. Large Congenital Hernia. In consequence of the yielding of the tunica vaginalis at its lower part, the testicle is situated in the centre of the posterior wall of the sac. xvn. 81 Fide No. 2085. ##*#*## UNUSUAL RELATION OF ARTERIES TO THE NECK OF INGUINAL HERNIiE. 2141. Parts of an Ileum and Os Pubis, with Poupart's Ligament, and a portion of the Abdominal Walls, including the Inguinal Canal. The external iliac artery and its branches are injected. The epigastric and obturator arteries arise by a common trunk half an inch long. A small branch arising from the epigastric, about a quarter of an inch from its origin, passes across the external ring. xvn. 83 This branch was wounded in an operation for strangulated hernia in an elderly man; profuse haemorrhage, which commenced five hours after the operation, was the result, and the patient died with peritonitis. FEMORAL HERNIA. ORDINARY CHARACTERS. 2142. Femoral Hernia, in a male, dissected so as to display the peculiar form of the tumour. xvn. 48 Vide Nos. 2091, 2144, 2145, 2146, 2152. TWO DISTINCT SACS. 2143. Femoral Hernia. In the peritoneum covering the femoral ring there are the orifices of two distinct hernial sacs close together. The outermost of these sacs extends beneath the semilunar edge of the fascia lata, and over the femoral vessels. The inner sac is so small that it does not protrude beyond Poupart's ligament. xvn. 75 COVERINGS OF SAC. 2144. Femoral Hernia of recent occurrence. On the front of the preparation the sub-peritoneal fat is laid open; it is crossed above by the semilunar edge of the fascia lata. At the back, the hernial sac is separated from it, withdrawn from beneath the crural arch, and inverted towards the abdominal cavity. xvn. 22 2145. The parts concerned in Femoral Hernia. The peritoneum and hernial sac have been removed to show the protrusion of the sub-peritoneal fat in the form of a pouch just below Hey's ligament. xvu. 23 2146. Femoral Hernia. The coverings of the sac are displayed. Within the latter, the sac itself is shown, with lymph on its internal surface. The mouth of the sac is about a quarter of an inch in diameter. The epigastric vessels are situated three-quarters of an inch from the outer border of the mouth of the sac. XVII> 28