INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 144 1003. A Foot, with, parts of the Tibia and Fibula, exhibiting the effects of dis- location and fracture ten months before death. The foot is dislocated outwards. The tibia is partially separated from the fibula: the internal malleolus projects an inch on the inner side of the astragalus. The astragalus also is partially separated from the scaphoid bone. The fibula has been broken into several portions just above the malleolus. These portions are firmly united, and there is an accumulation of bone both before and behind the articulation between the tibia and the fibula. C. 69 The patient was a lunatic 40 years old. The dislocation was not reduced till a month after its occurrence, and the patient's restlessness prevented the tibia from being maintained in its proper place : but he finally regained complete use and power of the foot. The case is described by Sir William Lawrence in the Medico-CJdrurgical Transactions, vol. xvii, p. 58. London, 1832. (In Case H.) 1004. Fracture of the Tibia and Fibula, extending into the ankle-joint. The internal lateral ligament is not ruptured, but the portion of tibia to which it is attached has been torn away from the shaft of the bone. From a man, aged 42. The injury was produced by direct violence. (In Case H.) 1005. Portions of a Tibia and Fibula. Fractures extend in several directions, through the shaft and the articular end of the tibia, into the ankle-joint. The fibula also is fractured through the base of the malleolus. C. 88 (In Case H.) 1006. Portions of a Tibia and Fibula. The point of the internal malleolus has been separated by fracture. The fibula is broken two inches above its lower end. C. 39 (In Case H.) 1007. The lower extremities of a Tibia and Fibula. A fracture, which is indi- cated by pieces of glass stuck in the uniting medium, extends through the base of the internal malleolus; it is firmly united by dense fibrous tissue, which, however, admits of slight movement. Another line of fracture extends through the anterior and outer angle of the articular surface of the tibia; there is a considerable amount of new bone about the tibio-fibular articulation. The astragalus was not displaced. The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, through the grooves of which the fracture passed, were firmly adherent to their sheaths. From a man who died of delirium tremens seven weeks after having sustained a fracture of the leg, by a box falling on the part. The fibula was fractured about 2| inches above the ankle. —See Kenton Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 47. 1008. The lower extremities of a Tibia and Fibula. A recent fracture extends through the articular surface and cartilage of the tibia. The communication of this fracture with the ankle-joint is closed by a thin layer of lymph firmly adhering to all the parts of the articular cartilage through which the fracture extends. m. 44 1009. Bones of an Ankle-Joint, exhibiting a double fracture of the internal malleolus, separating it from the tibia, and splitting it into two portions. c. 66 (In Case H.) For other Specimens, see Nos. 748, 873 to 875. OS CALCIS. 1010. The Foot of a Child, exhibiting a partial dislocation of the astragalus from the os calcis, together with a fracture of the supei'ior and anterior margin of the latter bone. c. 90