234 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 1532. Part of an Abdominal Aorta, with a large Aneurism, which has extended from its posterior wall backwards through the vertebrae and ribs, and forms a large sac external to the chest by the side of the spine. XHL 48 1533. The descending Aorta and Iliac Arteries, showing part of a large false sacculated aneurism, springing from the posterior wall of the aorta just above the bifurcation. From a man, aged 33 years. The aneurism by pressure had produced well-marked symp- toms of constipation for about four months, which terminated in complete intestinal obstruc- tion, lasting for ten days. The immediate cause of death was extensive haemorrhage into the PeThTwhoteTofthe aorta was in a state of advanced atheroma.-See Abernethy Ward Booh, vol. h, pp. 92 and 425. Vide Nos. 1456, 1457, 1458, 1548. BRANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. 1534. Part of a Splenic Artery, with a small Aneurism formed by the dilatation of a portion of its wall. Earthy matter is deposited in the coats of the sac. r xin. 46 1535. A Splenic Artery, exhibiting a deposit of earthy matter between its coats, and a small aneurismal pouch formed by dilatation of about half its circum- ~ xin. 98 terence. 1536 Portion of a Eenal Artery, with a small Aneurism. Earthy matter is deposited in the coats of the sac, and the adjacent walls of the artery appear thickened and indurated. XIIL 50 Vide No. 1550. COMMON ILIAC ARTERY. 1537. The Aneurism referred to in No. 1570. It is situated at the bifurcation o± the'abdominal aorta, and involves the left common iliac artery. 1538 Portion of a Common Iliac Artery, showing a small aneurism in the early sta^e of its formation. Immediately above the bifurcation, there is a circum- scribed dilatation on the posterior surface. The free edge of the inner coat forms a thick and uneven margin to the pouch, the wall of which is formed onlv bv the external and middle coats of the vessel. The artery is generally atheromatous ; a wide calcareous plate, nearly half an inch long, extends upward from the dilatation and forms part of its upper margin. From a middle-aged man, who died of apoplexy. All the arteries were extremely atheromatous. FEMORAL ARTERY. 1539 Iliac and Femoral Arteries, with an Aneurism at the commencement of the femoral artery, for the cure of which the external iliac has been tied. The sac is large nearly globular, and in great part filled by laminated coagulum. Upon its lower part a portion of the skin is left, with the aperture through which it burst externally The ligature was applied about an inch and a quarter above the sac and it has completely divided the internal coats of the artery Between the situation of the ligature and the sac there is a small deposit of fibrinous coao-ulum. Between the situation of the ligature and the division of the common iliac, the artery is completely filled by coagulated blood. The coats of the artery are apparently healthy. The femoral artery, as it passes out of the lower part of the sac, is impervious. The profunda passes out of the middle of +V,p sac and is pervious. The femoral vein is open above and below the sac, and is obliterated by the pressure of the sac in the mid-space. The anterior crural nerve is connected with the sac, and is flattened by its pressure. The patient was a man 70 years old. The aneurism had existed two years and a half before