SERIES X. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. OSSIFICATION OF CARTILAGES OF LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 1610. A Larynx from an old woman. The thyroid, cricoid, and arytenoid carti- lages are almost entirely ossified. Osseous matter is also deposited in one of the thyro-hyoid ligaments, and in the epiglottis. xxv. 18 1611. Portion of a trachea from an old man. The cartilages are all ossified. xxv. 20 EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION. Q2DEMA GLOTTIDIS. 1612. The Larynx with a part of the Trachea of a man who died with acnte laryngitis. The mucous membrane covering the epiglottis, and lining the whole interior of the larynx, is swollen by a copious effusion of serum and lymph in its tissue. The ventricles of the larynx are nearly obliterated by the swelling of the membrane and the consequent approximation of their borders. A small quantity of lymph is effused on a part of the mucous membrane over the right side of the epiglottis and thyroid cartilage. xxv. 7 The patient was about 50 years old, and was healthy until within tliirtv hours of his death when signs of acute laryngitis ensued. When brought to the Hospital suffocation was immi- nent. Tracheotomy was immediately commenced; but he died before the operation was completed. 1613. A Larynx, with the Tonsils, Uvula, a part of the Tongue, Trachea and Pharynx, the latter having been laid open from behind. The mucous membrane lining the epiglottis, and upper part of the larynx, the tonsils, and uvula, is swollen and oedematous, so that the entrance to the pharynx is almost oblite- rated, and that of the larynx reduced to a narrow chink. xxv. 31 1614. Extreme oedema of the Glottis, Epiglottis, and Pharynx, producing death by suffocation. & From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1615. A Larynx, of which all the mucous membrane is upraised, and the glottis much narrowed, by oedema. The epiglottis is thickened, and its edges turned backwards and downwards. The oedema extended, also, down the pharynx and oesophagus, and was attended, in the recent state, with the characters of active inflammation. xxv. 29 These changes apnear as the consequences of the lodgment of a fish-bone across the fauces immediately m front of the epiglottis. The patient was an elderly woman, with disci of the