272 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE by the ecraseur from a child, aged 3 years. The tongue had increased in size since the age of sixteen months. The portion removed always protruded from the mouth. The child never complained of it; could masticate without trouble and talk very well. The lower teeth, however, had become pushed downwards and pointed unnaturally outwards from the pressure above. The structure seems to be that of healthy tongue, with a thickened papillated mucous membrane. FATTY DEGENERATION. 1780. A Tongue reduced to fat from a case of progressive muscular atrophy. The subject was a man, aged 60, who had gradually lost health and strength for two and a-half years before death. At the same time speech and the first act of deglutition failed; he was compelled at last to communicate all wants in writing, and to force food within the grasp of the palatine arches after mastica- tion by means of a common spatula. The tremulous twitchings of the muscles of the tongue, and eventually of others, were remarkable. Becoming slowly emaciated from imperfect nutrition, he died without additional symptoms. The nerve-centres, the nerves, and the organs generally, were examined after death, and presented a natural appearance. The tongue is converted into a mass of fat, and some others of his muscles showed symptoms of the same disease in its earliest stage. xxiii. 32 Presented by Edgar Barker, Jun., Esq. ULCERATION. 1781. A Tongue, Larynx, and Pharynx. The dorsum of the tongue is occupied by a V-shaped ulcer, which extends along the raphe from base to tip. The ulcer is about a quarter of an inch deep ; the edges are steep, ragged, irregular, and infiltrated with tubercular matter. Its base is smooth; here and there the fibres of the transverse muscle are exposed. Both the upper and lower surfaces of the soft palate are covered by ragged ulceration, and the palate is much thickened and honey-combed by small abscesses containing cheesy pus. The root of the tongue is covered by a dense papillated cicatricial tissue, in places ulcerated. The tonsils are normal. The epiglottis is nearly destroyed; its remnant is contracted, dense, puckered, and adherent to the adjacent parts. Both arytamo-epiglottidean folds are destroyed by ulceration, and the mucous membrane covering the interior of the larynx above the glottis is infiltrated, and covered by a similar ragged tuberculated ulceration, which penetrates deeply on the anterior surface. The margin of the left vocal cord is ulcerated, but the right is unaffected. From a bov, a°-ed 19 years, who was admitted to the Hospital with an extensive superficial ulcer on the tongue and soft palate. He had had a bad mouth for two years and his tongue had been ulcerated during the last three months. There was no evidence of congenital syphilis The ulcer spread in extent and depth, and he died two months after his admission of hectic and exhaustion. The apices of both lungs were affected with phthisis. A drawing is preserved, No. 186.—See Pitcairn Ward Booh, vol. vi, p. 82. 1782. The rio-ht half of a Tongue, on the border of which is an ulcer, with an uneven, coarsely granulated base, and an inverted and somewhat undermined maro-in'. It has destroyed the whole thickness of the mucous membrane of the tongue, exposing, at irregular depths, the muscular tissue. xxiii. 28 The patient, a man 37 years old, died with advanced tubercular disease of the lungs and larynx The ulcer of the tongue was of eight months' duration. For a short time before his death it appeared to be healing ; but before this time it had presented so close a resemblance to the common tubercular ulcers of the intestines, that it was believed to be of tubercular nature. The co-existent disease in the lungs and larynx, and the absence of any cancerous structures near the ulcer, further justified this belief. 1783. A Tono-ne, the inferior part of which is, on the right side, completely