► SERIES XXXVII. DISEASES OF THE SCROTUM. HYPERTROPHY. 2817. A Scrotum greatly enlarged, in connection, probably, witb a large bernia or bydrocele ; for tbere is no apparent morbid cbange of structure in any of its tissues. xxviii. 16 ELEPHANTIASIS. 2818. A Scrotum greatly enlarged, witb thickening and induration of tbe skin and subjacent tissue. Tbe surface of tbe skin is elevated in lobes and folds separated by deep fissures, and wrinkled. The subjacent tissue is compact and filamentous, like tbe tissue of firm skin. Tbe sebaceous glands are enlarged, and exbibit wide open orifices, surrounded by elevated rings : they are especially numerous at the upper part of the diseased structure. xxviii. 18 Vide Oast. No. 150. TUMOURS. FIBRO-CELLULAR TUMOURS. 2819. A large Fibro-cellular Tumour, which was removed from the scrotum with a portion of the integument. xxviii. 75 2820. Part of a Tumour from a scrotum, which weighed twenty-four pounds, and was about a foot in length. It is lobed, firm, elastic, white, and composed of compact, fibro-cellular tissue. In the recent state, many parts of it were infiltrated with serum, making them quite succulent; and in some there were extravasations of blood. At the lower part of tbe mass, the testicle and its tunica vaginalis (which contained some ounces of serous fluid) are shown flattened by its pressure. xxxv. 70 The patient was 74 years old, and the tumotir was of five and a-half years' growth. It was easily separable from the surrounding parts, into which many lobes extended far from its chief mass. It was complicated, not only with the hydrocele above mentioned, but with a large scrotal hernia that descended to its upper part, and with thickening and cedema of the scrotum. The diagram No. 327 represents the tumour in its present state. HORNY GROWTHS. 2821. A Horny Growth removed from the scrotum. From the history of tbe case, it is believed to have originated in a wart. The portion of skin close to the base of tbe horny growth is the seat of a papillated, raised, slightly ulcerated growth, which was found on microscopic examination to be an epithelioma. xxviii. 74 2822. Horny Growths which were removed from the scrotum of a chimney- sweeper, where they had existed some months. During tbe last nine years five