DISPLACEMENTS OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL AND OMENTUM. left side of the aperture, but was not protruded into the sac. The divided extremity of the round ligament of the liver is attached to the opposite side. The specimen was taken from a male subject in the dissecting room. 2158. Two Hernia? in the linea alba, above the umbilicus. The superior and larger sac contains omentum ; the lower one is empty. Below the smaller sac is an aperture in the linea alba, through which fat protrudes. xvn. <3o 2159. Ventral Heruia, protruding through the linea alba above the umbilicus. OBTURATOR HERNIA. 2160. Portion of the front and right side of a Pelvis, exhibiting the sac of a small hernia through the obturator foramen. The sac is protruded above the upper edge of the obturator externus muscle, and below the obturator nerve. The vas deferens runs round the upper and outer border of the neck of the sac. xvn. 84 From a young man who died with pulmonary phthisis. 2161. A Portion of the left side of the Pelvis, showing a part of the ileum, enveloped by omentum, protruded with its peritoneal sac beneath the obturator externus, lying between the muscle and the obturator fascia. The obturator artery and nerve lie immediately above the hernial sac ; the artery being towards its inner, and the nerve towards its outer side. The intestine was closely adherent to its peritoneal sac. . xvn. 90 From a woman, aged 47, who laboured under constipation of three weeks' duration, with its ordinary consequences, amongst which were frequent vomitings of fluid having a strong faecal odour. There existed an omental hernia, protruded beneath Poupart's ligament into the thigh, where the omentum had become fixed by adhesions to the peritoneal sac protruded with it. Upon this omental hernia an operation was performed, and the protruded omentum put back into the abdomen. From this period the symptoms abated, but without any action of the bowels having been obtained. Subsequently, however, the symptoms returned with increased severity, and the patient sank three weeks from the commencement of the constipation. The case is related by Mr. Stanley in the Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, vol. iii, p. 94. DIAPHRAGMATIC HERNIA. 2162. Diaphragmatic Hernia. The preparation exhibits a portion of the left lateral half of the diaphragm, in which there is a large oval opening, presumed to have existed from birth. Through this opening, parts of the arch of the colon, omentum, and pancreas protruded into the thorax. The strangulation of the intestine by the margin of the opening was the cause of death. xvn. 70 The patient, a lad 19 years old, died with complete obstruction of the intestines of three days' duration. Presented by Dr. Norris. 2163. Pericardial Diaphragmatic Hernia of the Omentum. The specimen was taken from the body of a man, aged 50, who was admitted into the Hospital on account of stricture of the urethra. He died apparently from exhaus- tion, the result of pyelitis, ten days after admission. At the post mortem examination, on opening the pericardium, a very remarkable condition presented itself. At the first glance it seemed as if the heart were thickly covered by inflammatory lymph, but a moment's further investigation showed the appear- ance to be due, not to lymph, but to a large piece of the great omentum, about the size of the outstretched hand and fingers, which lay spread out uniformly over the front and sides of the heart, so as almost completely to hide it from view. The omentum is not in the least altered in structure. There were no signs of thickening from inflammation or any other cause, and there