DISEASES OF BONES. 57 spicula of bone; but in some parts its texture is much softer, and it has numerous small thin walled cysts imbedded in it. The texture of the bone itself is natural, except that its external surface is rough and deprived of periosteum, as if that membrane were involved in the tumour. I. 22 There isa cast of the limb from which this tumour was taken—No. 7. The tumour had grown rapidly but without much pain, and the patient recovered after the amputation of the limb. Microscopic Examination.—The tumour consists of a number of large round nucleated cells and free nuclei embedded in a scanty matrix, which is in places hyaline, in places partly librillated. See microscopic sections, No. 10; and drawing, a. 1.* 424. Section of a Tibia, and of a large Tumour which has formed around its upper third. One half of the tumour, the vessels of which have freely received the injection, is of a soft, fleshy, vascular texture. The other half, into which the injection has not so freely penetrated, consists of a mixture of cartilaginous and osseous matter, the cartilage being arranged in nodules, and exactly re- sembling that of the foetal skeleton. The morbid growth is very closely con- nected with the periosteum in the whole circumference of the tibia, and at the upper part the osseous portion of the tumour is continuous with the bone. The internal part of the tibia is sound. I. 41 Presented by William Brewer, Esq. 425. Section of a Tibia, and of a large Cartilaginous Tumour surrounding its upper two-thirds. The tumour is seated entirely between the bone and the extended periosteum ; the continuity of the periosteum with the investment of the tumour is distinct at the lower part. At its upper boundary the tumour borders the articular surface of the tibia, but does not encroach upon it. The cartilage is in nodules and irregular masses ; it is firm, elastic, shining, greyish, like ordinary foetal cartilage. At its upper part portions of cancellous bone are imbedded in it, and portions of similar bone have grown into most of those parts of the tumour which are in contact with the surface of the tibia. A large cavity within the tumour is irregularly bounded by nodules of cartilage, and by a coarse network of fibrous bands, the remains of partitions between portions of the tumour, the softening of which probably led to the formation of the cavity. All these tissues bounding the cavity appeared, in the recent state, soft, flocculcnt, and sloughing, and it was filled with brownish-yellow, putrid, (h composing fluid. The general shape of the tumour is spheroidal; its weight was twenty-four pounds. T. 288 The patient was a girl 14 years old. The tumour had been growing eighteen months ; and shortly before her admission into the hospital, and probably at the commencement of the putrefaction of the contents of the cavity within it, the integuments over it began to look in- flamed and dusky. On amputation of the limb, putrid gases were found diffused in the cellular tissue as high as the middle of the thigh. She died three weeks after the amputation with signs of purulent infection. ' A drawing, No. 22, is preserved. 426. Part of a Foot, with a large, soft, Cartilaginous Tumour occupying the place from which the metatarsal bone of the great toe had been removed on account of a similar growth involving it. The tumour is in two principal, and perhaps distinct, portions, invested with tough fibrous tissue, appearing locular through the number and strength of the partitions traversing it. The cartilage is soft, yellowish, transparent, and in some parts nearly liquid; while, from other parts, it appears to have escaped in the section, leaving cavities. 35. 94 427. The Metatarsal Bone of the Great Toe of the same foot, after maceration. nrLnt^^^w^0800? 8Pfcim«ns referred fco as A- A- 2- *«•, were executed and piesented by W. J. Walsham, Esq., by whom the sections were also prepare,!.