534 URINARY CALCULI. 206. Calculus from the pelvis of the kidney of a child five months old. Uric Acid with Urate of Ammonia. The other kidney, with a similar calculus, is in Series XXYIII, No. 2344. Presented by Dr. "West. 207. Calculi removed after death from a boy 8 years old. The larger calculus was situated in the right ureter near the bladder: the smaller portions were situated in the pelvis and infundibula of the right kidney. The larger calculus is composed of Urate of Ammonia with a trace of Uric Acid. Lithotomy had been performed a fortnight before death. The kidneys were both very much dilated, and their pelves and calyces were filled with pus. 208. Calculus composed of Urates coated with Phosphates and fragments, removed during life from the kidney of a woman, aged 44 years. See St. Bartholomew''s Hospital Reports, vol. ix, 1873. 209. An Oxalate of Lime Calculus removed by the operation of Nephrolithotomy. It presents the extremely rough and spiculated surface characteristic of such calculi. The patient was a young man, aged 20. At tbe age of 5 years he had suffered from hsematuria, but not since. For the past ten years there bad been intermittent pain in the right lorn and testis, which for eighteen months had been very severe. While in the Hospital he had paroxysms of intense pain in the right testis, shooting downward from the region of the kidney, and followed by the discharge of a large quantity of urine containing oxalic acid. The calculus was felt close to the pelvis, and was easily removed after scratching through a thin layer of the kidney which covered it. The operation was performed by Mr. Butlin— See Pitcairn Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 170. 210. A Renal Calculus taken from the body of a middle-aged lady, who died of scarlatina, and who, as a child, had frequently complained of pain in the back, and tenderness in the renal region; latterly these symptoms had been absent. The calculus consists of pure Oxalate of Lime of the crystalline and dumb-bell varieties. 211. Small Calculus passed from the kidney. Oxalate of Lime with crystals. 212. Renal Calculi from a man 38 years of age. In the right kidney were :— 1. A great calculus, weighing 36£ ounces. 2. About a thousand smaller calculi, nine of these larger than a cherry-stone, and weighing from 19 to 70 grains each; the rest of the calculi, larger than a millet seed, weighed together nearly 2 ounces. 3. A large quantity of calculous dust. In the left kidney were—1. A calculus weighing 9| ounces. 2. A quantity of calculous dust. The stones and gravel consisted chiefly of the Phosphate of Magnesia and Ammonia; in the largest stone there was a nucleus composed of Oxalate of Lime, with traces of Phosphate of Magnesia and Ammonia, Carbonate of Lime, and Uric Acid. The kidneys are preserved in Series XXVIII, No. 2349. The case is more fully described by Dr. S. Gee in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. lvu, p. 77,1881. 213. A Renal Calculus composed of Cystic Oxide, taken from a man. The bright shining particles on its surface consist of small plates of cholesterine.