123 INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). The patient, a middle-aged man, fell in the street, and his hip struck against the curb-stone. Immediately afterwards the limb was inverted, and an inch shorter^han the> other; bub no crepitus was felt. In the suspicion that dislocation existed, repeated attempts at reduction were made. The case is recorded by Mr. Stanley, in the Medico- Chirurgxcal Transactions, vol. xiii, p. 508. London, 1825. 848. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting an intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the Femur, which occurred many years before death. The neck of the bone is absorbed. Bristles are passed beneath three thick fibrous bands, which extend from the fractured surface of the head of the bone to the capsule. The capsule is generally thickened, and the fractured surfaces are covered by thin smooth layers of fibrous tissue. m- 849. Portion of a Femur, in which fracture of the neck occurred many years before death. There has been complete absorption of the neck of the bone. The surfaces of the head and of the space between the trochanters which have been in contact, and which probably moved freely on each other, are very hard, polished, and ivory-like. ni. 17 850. Portion of a Femur with the Acetabulum, exhibiting a fracture of the neck of the femur, which occurred fifteen years before death. The neck of the bone is absorbed. The opposite surfaces of the head and shaft, which hav^e been in apposition, are covered by a layer of hard osseous substance. There is a considerable deposit of new bone at the bottom of the acetabulum, and upon the head of the femur. c. 76 The signs of fracture of the neck of the femur were not present till six weeks after the injury, and two weeks after the patient had begun to walk on crutches. (In Case H.) Presented by Thomas Wormald, Esq. 851. Portions of a Femur, of which the neck was fractured, near the margin of the head, many years before death. The remains of the neck have been nearly absorbed. The fractured surface of the head is adapted to the surface of the short portion of the neck which remains between the trochanters, and to a growth of bone proceeding from it downwards. Both the surfaces thus adapted are very hard, polished, ivory-like, and penetrated by numerous foramina. C. 105 (In Case H.) 852. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting a fracture of its'neck, of which no union has taken place. The neck of the bone is almost completely absorbed and the surfaces by which the fractured portions were in contact are rough and hard. Deposits of osseous substance have taken place around the base of the head of the femur. C. 50 From an old woman ; the fracture occurred nineteen years before death. (In Case H.) Presented by J. H. B. Williams, Esq. 853. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting fracture of its neck, of which there is no union. The surfaces of the head, and of the space between the trochanters, which were in contact, are nearly smooth and very hard. Irregular osseous deposits have taken place around the fractured surface of the neck, and upon the head of the bone. c 59 (In Case H.) ' 854. The right Femur of a child 11 years old, which was fractured in the middle third of its shaft, four years before death, and in which no osseous union of the fragments took place. The whole of the bone is exceedingly atrophied. The lower end of the upper portion is enlarged, light, and porous, as if by expansion or rarefaction of its tissue. The upper end of the lower portion is