DISEASES OF BONES. 24 size of the aperture left in the upper and back part of the skull was, during the twelve years in which the man survived the injury, in a very slight degree diminished by the growth of bone from its margins. The exposed part of the dura mater was covered by a dense tissue like that of an ordinary cicatrix. i. 100 The patient was 23 years old when, after many attempts to commit suicide, he laid bis head on a fire and remained till the whole of the scalp was completely charred and a portion of the bone was calcined. The process of exfoliation of the bone occupied eighteen months; but a complete cicatrix formed. When he recovered, the patient, though still insane, did not again attempt to destroy himself. (In Case E.) 178. A Skull-Cap, in which there has been Necrosis of a large portion of both tables of the frontal and right parietal bones. A groove, beginning in the outer table and gradually deepening, has been formed around the dead bone. Two applications of the trephine were made upon the dead bone, with the expectation of finding matter beneath it. A. 104 The necrosis was produced by a burn. (In Case F.) 179. A Skull-Cap, exhibiting extensive Necrosis and Ulceration of the whole thickness of the parietal bones. A groove has been formed around the dead bone; the increased vascularity of the adjoining margin of the living bone is shown by the numerous minute apertures in it. As is usual, no new bone is formed on the outer table around the sequestrum ; but a thin layer of new bone is formed on that portion of the inner table to the margin of which the groove of separation, commencing in the outer table and gradually deepening, has penetrated. a. 10G (In Case F.) 180. Portion of an Upper Jaw with two molar teeth, which separated by exfoliation. I. 145 From a boy aged 6 years. The necrosis was consequent on a severe blow upon the face. 181. The greater part of the superior Maxillary Bone of a child 5 years of age, separated by exfoliation. The cause of the necrosis was unknown. r. 181 182. A portion of the Alveolar Process of the right Upper Jaw, corresponding to the incisors, canine and first bicuspid teeth, from a man aged 35 years. A severe chill was followed by a vesicular eruption on the surface corresponding to the distribution of the 2nd division of the 5th pair of nerves. The skin of the right cheek and upper lip was left pitted by the eruption. Soon after, this portion of bone exfoliated. 183. Portion of a Lower Jaw, including its angle and a great part of the ascending ramus, which separated by exfoliation. I. 167 From a young person in whom the necrosis had arisen without any evident cause. Presented by J. G. Perry, Esq. 184. Portion of a Lower Jaw, containing a bicuspid and two molar teeth, separated by exfoliation. i. 146 From a boy aged 4 years. The necrosis occurred without any apparent cause. The loss of this portion of the jaw was completely repaired. Presented by Alexander Anderson, Esq. 185. Portion of the Lower Jaw of a child, which separated by exfoliation. It contains two molar teeth of the temporary set, and the rudiments of three of the permanent, set. I. 18