DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE 204 artery. There is a second opening at the posterior surface of the heart, through the wall of the right auricle, just below the vena cava inferior. The heart was taken from a man, aged 41 years, who fell from a height of fifty feet. The muscular substance of the organ was healthy. 1366. A Heart, in which a partial rupture of the walls of the auricle has taken place. In the posterior part of the right auricle, between the fossa ovalis and inferior vena cava, a rent an inch and a half in length, extends through the auricular septum In the posterior part of the left auricle, between and below the orifices of the pulmonary veins, a rent nearly two inches in length, exists m both the visceral pericardium and the endocardium ; and there is a small aperture between some of the muscular fibres thus exposed, through which a little blood escaped into the pericardial cavity. XIL '4 The patient was 38 years old. His leg was crushed by a heavy weight, and amputation was performed on the following day. He seemed to suffer but little from these shocks, and went on well until the fifth day, when extensive inflammation ensued in the tissues of the thigh. He was much depressed, but his case was not deemed hopeless till the twelfth day. At this time he suddenly became pale and more exhausted, and quickly died. From the time of the injury the pidse was generally feeble and frequent. During the last few days of his life the breatning was A clot of blood, about the size of a half-crown, was loose in the pericardial sac, and a smaller clot lay upon the auricles. Several small effusions of blood existed between the visceral peri- cardium and the muscular substance of the auricles and ventricles, especially of the former. The texture of the heart appeared quite healthy. 1367. A Heart and large Vessels, with the Trachea, and a portion of the left Lung, from a child 6 years old. An irregular rent extends through the whole length and thickness of the posterior wall of the left ventricle and auricle. A similar laceration extends through the upper part of the anterior wall of the left ventricle, and through the adjacent part of the septum. The left bronchus is torn across near the root of the lung. xn. 54 These injuries were the result of the passage of a heavy wheel over the chest of the child. Some of the ribs were fractured, but the pericardium was not torn. General emphysema was produced by the escape of air from the ruptured bronchus. 1368. A Heart, the left ventricle of which is extensively lacerated. The specimen was removed from the body of a middle-aged man, who was killed by the Fenian explosion in Clerkenwell in 1867. 1369. Heart of a child, aged 9 years. At the posterior part of the left ventricle is a longitudinal rent about half an inch in extent, the substance of the heart at this point being softened. The rent increases in size towards the cavity of the ventricle. The patient was run over by a cart and was admitted into the hospital, but no serious symptom occurred until the fifth day after the injury, when she almost suddenly died. The pericardium was found full of blood. WOUNDS, &c. 1370. Part of the Heart of a lunatic, who destroyed himself by thrusting a needle, about an inch and a quarter in length, through the anterior wall of the left ventricle : death took place four days afterwards. The needle, entering just to the left of the septum, passes obliquely upwards and to the left, and its point enters the cavity of the ventricle through the apex of the anterior fleshy column; its larger end is buried in the substance of the ventricle. The pericardium was thinly covered with lymph, and the muscular substance of the heart was in a state of fatty degeneration, which was most advanced, and attended with soften- ing of texture, in the neighbourhood of the needle. XII. 71 1371. Part of the left Ventricle of a cow, through which an awl was driven at