PATHOLOGICAL MICROSCOPIC SPECIMENS. 550 From Specimen No. 1832. 73. A Nasal Polypus composed of homogeneous connective tissue, containing many nuclei, which is at several points undergoing calcification. Also a section of a tnmour of the superior maxilla from the same case, having a somewhat similar structure, but containing relatively more nuclei and also spindle-cells. No. 72 was taken from the same case. TUMOURS OF THE SUPERIOR, MAXILLA. 74. An Epithelioma, which filled the Antrum. It originated probably in the gum. TUMOURS OP THE TONGUE. PAPILLOMATA. 75. A Small Papilloma from the side of a Tongue. The epithelium is irregular on the surface, much thickened, and from the deep surface many irregular ingrowths extend into the submucous tissue. It was removed from a lady, aged 55 years, and was apparently caused by the irritation of the fastening of some artificial teeth. 76. A similar Specimen. ICHTHYOSIS. 77. Section of a Tongue affected with Ichthyosis. The superficial and deep layers of the epithelium are increased in thickness, and the interpapillary processes of the latter are unusually elongated. EPITHEIilOMATA. 77a. Sections from the same Tongue, where the disease has given rise to epithe- lioma. The epithelioma recurred after the removal of the tongue. From Specimen No. 1788. 78. Section of a Tongue, which had long been affected with chronic superficial Glossitis, taken from a situation near the margin of an epithelioma. The superficial layer of the epithelium is somewhat thickened and devoid of papillae : and a gradually increasing elongation of the interpapillary processes of the deep layer is observable, finally, as the epithelioma is approached, amounting to distinct columnar ingrowths, some of which contain " cell-nests." This and the preceding Specimens, Nos. 77, 77 a, are described by Mr. Eve in a paper in the British Medical Journal, April 2nd, 1881. 79. Epithelioma of the dorsum of a Tongue. The section shows the extension downwards of the columns of epithelium from the surface, the centres of which are cornified. DISEASES OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS. TUMOURS. SARCOMATA AND ADENO-SARCOMATA. 80. A section of a soft gelatinous Tumour of the Parotid Gland, composed of round and spindle-shaped nuclei, and scanty ill-developed connective tissue. 81. A firmer Parotid Tumour having a similar structure, but containing also gland tissue in the form of tubules lined with small round epithelial cells. 82. A nearly similar Specimen.