356 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE KIDNEYS, which is nearly filled by a calculus. The substance of the kidney itself is healthy. XXVI- 2S The child died with fits, which had occurred almost every day after the fifth week of its life. There were tubercular deposits in the lungs and other organs. Presented by Dr. West. 2345. A Kidney, the pelvis and infundibula of which are dilated and filled by calculi. One large calculus fills the pelvis, and branches from it are continued into many of the infundibula. Smaller calculi fill the other infundibula. ine glandular substance of the kidney is nearly absorbed. xxvi. 8 The specimen is represented by Dr. Marcet, in his Essay on Calculous Disorders. PL S. London, 1817. 2346. A Kidney, having a large calculus lodged in its pelvis. 189 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2347. Section of a Kidney, with a calculus exactly filling its pelvis and chief infundibula. The substance of the kidney appears indurated, and its surface contracted : its pelvis and infundibula are thickened. xxvi. AS 2348. Left Kidney and Ureter, from a woman, aged 38 years. In the ureter, where it crossed the brim of the pelvis, is an impacted calculus, the size ot a horse-bean. The pelvis of the kidney is distended, and contains about twenty stones, three of which are large and faceted. They are probably composed of uric acid coated with phosphates. The pelvis also contained pus and the abscess communicated by a fistulous passage passing through the eft wing ot the diaphragm near the ribs, with a left empyema. The right kidney was laro-e, but otherwise natural.—See Post Mortem Booh, vol. vm, p. 25. 2349. The Kidneys of the patient from whom the large calculi preserved in Series LII were taken. Both organs are converted into cyst-like sacs, the secreting structures being almost entirely destroyed. 2350. A Kidney contracted, and its secreting structure completely disorganized by changes consequent upon the lodgment of calculi m its pelvis. iyu From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2351. A Kidney, in the pelvis of which are large and irregular calculi The inflammation and suppuration resulting from the presence of the calculi were followed by adhesion of the kidney to the adjacent portion of the descending colon, and the discharge of the contents of its pelvis into the intestinal^canal through an ulcer. 2352. Kidneys from a woman, aged 52 years. The left kidney is very small. The ureter is natural throughout. The right kidney is enlarged, its pelvis is greatly dilated, and was tilled with ropy pus; it also contained four small loose calculi. The kidney structure is atrophied in places. The ureter is thickened. —See Post Mortem Book, vol. iii, p. 29. 2353 A Kidney which has undergone complete fatty degeneration. The pelvis is occupied by a large branched calculus; the larger branch extends down the Microscopic examination showed that the kidney was converted into adipose tissue inter- mixed whhdehcate connective tissue. In one or two places the remains of atrophied gland structure could be detected. A microscopic section is preserved, No. 91. Removed from a woman, who was killed by an accident, and brought to the Hospital for examinatioQ. CALCULI IMPACTED IN THE URETER. 2354. A Kidney, exhibiting the obstruction of the commencement of the ureter