INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 127 into the cancellous tissue of the upper part of the shaft, m 'Inch t now lies armly imbedded. The fibula is fractured two inches below its head the two portions overlap each other considerably, and are united by a bridge of osseous material extending obliquely between their lateral surfaces. 0. va (In Case H.) 873 Sections of a Tibia and Fibula. There has been a compound fracture of both bones about two inches above the ankle-joint. A vacancy is seen m the tibia in the situation of the fracture, from which probably a portion of bone has been removed, and at the bottom of which there is a piece of dead bone not yet separated. A portion of the fibula also has necrosed, and is partially separated. The upper and lower fragments of the tibia have not approximated, but are united by a strong bridge or splint of bone behind them, and there is a firm and extensive union of the tibia to the fibula, at and below the seat of fracture. The fracture of the fibula is firmly and smoothly united c. 21 (In Case H.) 874. Portions of a Tibia, Fibula, Astragalus, and Os Calcis, from a limb in which compound fracture of the lower end of the tibia and fibula occurred two years previous to amputation. There is an abundant deposit of osseous substance around the fractured portions of the tibia and fibula. Two portions of bone, one belonging to the articular end of the tibia, the other comprising all that remained of the astragalus, were found loose in the cavity of the ankle-joint, and in a deep ulcerated cavity in the lower end of the tibia. The small portion of the os calcis which remains retains but little of the natural form of the bone. c- (In Case H.) 875. The Bones of a Leg, exhibiting the effects of a compound fracture of both of them near the ankle, and of a simple fracture of the tibia near the knee-joint. Near the ankle, the fractured portions are irregularly united at a right angle with each other, the lower portions being turned inwards. In the lower part of the tibia there is a large irregular cavity, communicating both externally and with the joint, in which several loose pieces of bone were contained. The upper part of the shaft of the fibula has not united with the lower part, but the latter is firmly fixed to the tibia. The fractured portions of the head of the tibia are firmly, but irregularly, united. C. 106 These injuries were the consequences of an accident which occurred a year before amputation. For other Specimens of Necrosis of Fractured Bones, vide Nos. 196, 197, 240, 241, 242. (In Case H.) FRACTURES OF PARTICULAR BONES. FRACTURE OF THE BONES OF THE SKULL AND FACE. 876. A Skull-Cap, in which a fracture extending from the middle of the frontal to the posterior part of the right parietal bone has been firmly united. It has the appearance of a sabre-wound. C. 45 (In Case H.) 877. A Skull, in which there have been two wounds, each about an inch and a half in length, one in the frontal, and the other in the left parietal bone. They have both been healed. C. 44 (In Case H.) 878. Two portions of a Frontal Bone. A depression, like a cut, is seen on the external surface in front of the coronal suture. The inner surface, over a con-