DISEASES OF JOINTS. 85 pus. This cavity communicates by a narrow track, through which a bristle is passed, wit h the acetabular cavity where the cartilage is detached. A similar track also passes through the ilium at the level of the upper margin of the acetabulum, into an abscess cavity within the pelvis. FromaeJuld aged 7 years, who died in the hospital from purpura hemorrhagica. The disease of the hip had been in progress in a chronic form for two years, but had become much more acute just before her admission a fortnight previous to her death. A section through the head and neck of the femur shows that the cancellous tissue is healthy. There is a drawing of the specimen, No. 36. 572. Bones of a Knee-Joint, exhibiting the effects of inflammation. Parts of the free surface of the cartilage upon each bone have been absorbed. There has also been a more extensive absorption of the deep or attached surface of the cartilage, so that its connection with the bone was loosened, and it was readily separable from it. Where the absorption of the deep surface of the cartilage had taken place, the surface of the bone was covered by granulations. it. 31 In the recent state the bones were seen to be exceedingly vascular ; and it was presumed that inflammation of their articular surfaces preceded the other changes in the joint. 573. Bones of the Knee and Ankle-Joints of a boy, in which ulceration, con- nected with acute necrosis of the tibia, extended through both the upper and lower ai-ticular surfaces of the bone. The articular cartilages of the femur and patella are in places destroyed, and their attachment to the bone is loosened. The cartilage of the upper surface of the astragalus is almost wholly removed, and the exposed bone is covered with lymph. II. 46 From the same patient as No. 33 in the preceding Series. 574. Sections of the Bones of a Knee-Joint. Within the outer section of the head of the tibia, and occupying the position of the intermediary cartilage and epiphysis, a cavity containing pieces of necrosed bone imbedded in gelatinous granulation tissue is seen. The articular cartilage of the tibia is destroyed, and that of the femur is deeply absorbed. The trochlear surface of the femur is tuberculated from absorption of the cartilage around masses of bone imbedded in it. The synovial membrane was pulpy, and the joint filled with pus. The disease of the joint was evidently due to inflammation, extending from the articular end of the tibia. Kemoved by amputation from a boy aged 2f. The knee is reported to have been quite sound until a fortnight before his admission to the hospital: it then presented the appearances of long standing disease. There was no history of injury. The disease in the bone was not suspected before remova lof the limb.—See an account of the case in the St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xv, p. 131. 575. The lower extremity of a Femur, a slice having been sawn off its external condyle. ^ On the portion thus separated, close to the point of attachment of the anterior crucial ligament, there is a deep cavity lined by a smooth membrane. By its side is suspended a small, oval-shaped portion of bone, which, with its surface bare and rough, was loosely contained in the cavity. The synovial mem- brane was thick and pulpy, mid pus occupied the interior of the joint. n. 68 From a boy who had received several severe blows upon the knee, the inflammation which ensued being at first neglected. Suppuration was eventually established in the joint, and an abscess formed between the periosteum and the shaft of the femur. His health failing, it became necessary to amputate the limb. He recovered from the operation without an unfavour- able symptom. 576. A Knee-Joint. A section of the head of the tibia shows a small portion of dead bone in the centre of its cancellous texture. A piece of glass is passed through a fistulous passage extending from the skin covering the front part of