471 DISEASES OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. hazel-nuts, are seen, also a small mass formed of an agglomeration of minute cysts. The mammary gland is extremely atrophied, and the gland tissue, which is tough and fibrous, is spread out in a thin layer beneath the skin. Ine nipple is retracted. Microscopic Examination.—The proliferations are composed of an imitation of gland tissue consisting of tubules, and cylinders irregularly arranged and lined with indistinct columnar epithelium. The gland tissue of the breast consists of atrophied and compressed acini im- bedded in a large amount of fibrous tissue. . . From a woman, aged 46 years. The breast had been enlarging for three years, wlthout pain. The cyst occupied the outer side of the breast. After the birth of her last child she had abscesses in this breast, which left an induration. Five or six years later a sero-san- guineous discharge took place from the nipple and has since appeared at every catameniai period. — See Sitioell Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 34. Microscopic section, No. 134. 3148. Part of a Breast, in which a cyst, with rather thick tough walls, is imbedded in the mammary gland. A rough lobulated mass of soft substance has grown from a portion of the inner wall of the cyst: the rest of its cavity was filled with serous fluid. xxxiv. 7 The proliferations resemble microscopically those in the preceding specimen.—See micro- scopic section, No. 135, and a drawing, A. 45. 3149. A Breast removed from a middle-aged woman. The situation of the mammary gland is occupied by a large cyst, which contained a serous fluid, and around which the gland is spread out. The walls of the cyst are about a line in thickness, tough, but pliant: its interior is irregularly wrinkled, and somewhat sacculated; a small soft lobulated growth projects from a portion of its wall into its cavity. Above this cyst (at the part of the mammary gland which, during life, lay near the axilla) is a small oval mass of firm new growth, with irregular cavities, the result, apparently, of its partial softening. xxxiv. 16 Under the microscope the proliferous growth consists of areolar tissue containing alveoli filled with cells of the epithelial type.—Microscopic sections, No. 136, were preserved. The patient died, some time after the removal of the breast, with a return of the disease. 3150. A Breast, with two cysts imbedded in the mammary gland. The walls of the cysts are thin and tough ; their inner surfaces are coarsely wrinkled ; and they communicate by a small aperture. The interior of the smaller cyst is rust-coloured. The larger cyst was distended by a watery fluid, and a lobulated growth of soft substance has arisen from a part of its inner wall. xxxiv. 1 The proliferous growth resembles microscopically that in the preceding specimen. 3151. A Breast, in which a Cyst is imbedded in the mammary gland. The cyst has the same general characters as those in Nos. 3142, 3149, and 3150, but its cavity is almost filled by a soft, lobulated, and vascular growth attached by a broad base to a large portion of its wall. It is loosely connected with the adjacent parts. The mammary gland is very small. XXKIY. 21 Microscopically the intra-cystic growth closely resembles Nos. 3147 and 3148. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 137. A drawing of the tumour is preserved, No. 521. The breast was removed from a woman, 49 years old. The cyst had been increasing slowly and with very little pain for between four and five years. She recovered from the operation. SERO-CYSTIC DISEASE. 3152. Part of a Mammary Tumour containing numerous cysts, many of which are filled with solid growths. xxxiv. 34 3153. A portion of a Sero-cystic Tumour of the Breast. On the surface of the section a large cyst is seen almost filled up by an intra-cystic growth. A section of a portion of one of the intra-cystic growths showed that it consists entirely of fibrous tissue.—See microscopic sections, No. 138.