DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COVERINGS, AND THE SPERMATIC CORD. 419 cartilage, which are closely packed and imbedded in a tough filamentous white connective tissue. Over parts of the outer surface of the mass, a layer of seminal tubes is thickly spread out between it and the tunica albuginea. Sur- mounting this, and separated from it by a layer of connective tissue, is a conical mass formed of similar but smaller pieces of cartilage. xxviii. 68 2785. A branching Cartilaginous Growth which projected from a lymphatic into the cavity of the vena cava inferior. The coats of the vein, which had undergone no change in their structure, were reflected on its narrow base, but, gradually thinning, were lost on many of its branches, which thus appeared bare and in direct contact with venous blood. xxvm. 69 2786. A large Lymphatic laid open. Its canal appeared filled by a large cylindrical growth, but this could be loosened and unravelled into the bundle of variously-shaped small bodies suspended on long branching stems, and con- sisting usually of nodules of cartilage imbedded in a softer tissue. xxviii. 70 2787. A cluster of small oval and rounded Tumours, which extended alon» the course of the spermatic cord, and were loosely connected with its structures. They are composed chiefly of small cylindrical and nodular pieces of cartilage, clustered with growths of a softer substance on slender threads, and enclosed in thin-walled canals. xxviii. 71 The four preceding specimens are from a case described by Sir J. Paget in the thirty-eighth volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. FIBROUS AND FIBRO-CYSTIC TUMOURS. 2788. Section of a Tumour occupying the Testicle. It is of nearly regular, oval shape, and about six inches in its chief diameter. It is lobed, and now close-textured, tough, pure white, like firm connective tissue. In the recent state it was succulent and translucent, its substance being infiltrated with a clear, yellow, serous, and synovia-like fluid. Part of the tunica albuginea is reflected from its surface, and within this part seminal tubes were found spread out around it. m* n The patient was 37 years old, and the growth of the tumour was observed for seven vears In microscopic structure it showed scarcely anything but fibro-cellular tissue, in bundles of well- tormed filaments mingled with elongated fibre-cells. A diagram (No. 326) shows the tumour in its recent state. Presented by Dr. Ormerod. 2789. A Testicle, removed by operation. Its interior is occupied by a tumour developed among the tubuli seminiferi and still surrounded by a thin laver of them. The lower part of the tumour is formed by a homogeneous compact yellow substance; but its chief mass is composed of a firm tissue, traversed bv white fibres, m which there are numerous cysts. The walls of the cvsts are closely connected with the surrounding tissue, and are lined by a polished membrane. Most of them were filled by a fluid resembling mucusf othera con- tained a fluid like serum ; and in one, a small lobulated growth has arisen from the interior of the wall and nearly fills the cavity. xxvni. 51 From a gentleman of middle age, in whom the tumour had erown slowlv TiW ™„ the operation he was in perfect health. g J' iour ?ears after 2790, is a Two Testicles (probably from the same person), in each of which there large oval mass of firm, obscurely-fibrous, and spongy substance with small cysts thickly interspersed in many parts of it. The cysts ho™ Hi J } membranous walls, and are from one to "three lines in di^^i^^ apposlw°Ur °f them Cl°Sely Cr°Wded ^ theTrTaE xxvur. 19 2 e 2