SERIES XLI. DISEASES OF THE OVARIES. CIRRHOSIS. 2903. Sections of two Ovaries. They are contracted, and their structure is dense and fibrous ; Graafian vesicles are visible. From a woman, aged 35 years, who menstruated regularly until two years before death, when the menses ceased abruptly. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. CYSTIC TUMOURS OF THE OVARY. 2904. A simple Ovarian Cyst, removed during life. A bougie is placed in a portion of the Fallopian tube connected with its walls, which are uniformly thin and smooth. The cyst contained twenty-seven pints and a half of fluid. It was removed after its contents had been evacuated through a small incision in the abdominal walls. The collapsed cyst having been withdrawn from the abdomen through this incision, a ligature was tied round the Fallopian tube and other parts connecting it with the uterus, and it was cut off. The patient completely recovered. Presented by Thomas King, Esq. 2905. 2905a. Ovarian Cysts distended and dried. xxxi. 27, 28 2906. The Ovaries taken from a woman, aged 42, an inmate of Bethlehem Hospital. She had ceased to menstruate for three or four years. They are laid open, and in the interior of each are numerous small simple cysts. They all contained fluid. 2907. An Ovary in which there is a small cyst, the walls of which, by the deposition of earthy matter, have become bone-like. xxxi. 19 2908. Sections of two Ovaries. Both of them are enlarged to about four times their ordinary size, and contain numerous round cysts, each of them one-third to half an inch in diameter, which were full of variously coloured serous and grumous fluids. XXXI- 21 The change appears to constitute an early stage of the disease, by which some of the large multilocular cysts of the ovaries are formed. The cysts here shown have the characters of enlarged Graafian vesicles. 2909. Portion of a large Ovarian Cyst. xxxi. 2 2910. Portion of a Cyst originating in the left Ovary. It communicated with the ileum by a small aperture between four and five inches above the cascal valve. Some weeks before death, after the discharge of a large quantity of fluid per anum, the abdominal tumour diminished in size, and the dulness to percussion over its region was replaced by tympanitic resonance. Vide also Nos. 3360, 3361 in Series L.