INJUBIES OF BONES (Fractures). VARIETIES OP FRACTURE.* FISSURED. 741. Specimen of Fissured Fracture of the Skull. The right parietal bone is tra- versed by two converging fissures united by one that runs transversely. A Assure also extends upwards through the left parietal bone. There is no depression of the fragments. At the base of the skull two fissures extended from either side of the foramen magnum into the corresponding temporal fossaa, that on the rio-ht side being most extensive. These fissures did not unite with those seen on the vertex, and were probably produced by sudden impulsion of the weight of the body upon the occipital condyles through the cervical spine, when the vertex struck the ground. Prom a child aged 4, who fell from a window on the first floor of a house. She died comatose, about three hours after the accident. (In Case H.) PUNCTURED. . , . 742. Portion of a Skull, exhibiting a fracture through the posterior part of the orbital plate of the frontal bone. > m;17 The fracture was occasioned by the passage of an iron rod through the orbit into the brain. Vide No. 880. 743B A vCTy'oblique Comminuted Fracture of the left Clavicle, produced by a fall on the shoulder. . Death was caused by other injuries. 744 Vertex of a Skull, showing an extensive Fracture of the parietal bones and to a less extent, of the frontal. The displaced portion of the parietal pressing downwards, and acting like a wedge, has caused separation of the sutures in the immediate vicinity. The fracture occurred three weeks before death, and scanty new bone may be seen deposited about the edges of the displaced portions, chiefly on the cerebral surface. (In Case H.) ^V^I^teA Comminuted Extracapsular Fracture of the neck of the Femur, which has firmly united. The neck of the femur is driven into the great trochanter, and has detached a large portion of it with the trochanter minor. The rotation outwards of the shaft of the femur is well shown. * Other Specimens illustrating the Varieties of Fracture will be found among fractures of particular bones, p. 127. »