DISEASES OF THE EAR AND ITS APPENDAGES. 405 cells were filled with pus. At the junction of the posterior surface of the petrous with the mastoid bone there is a small opening-, marked by a piece of wire, through which pus passed from the mastoid cells to the under surface of the dura mater, where a small collection was found. An abscess was also found in the right half of the cerebellum, and the right lateral sinus contained a thrombus. From a girl aged 16 years, who was attacked with ear-ache and otorrhcea seven days before her death, which took place from meningitis. A year before she had a similar attack ot ear- ache, which was relieved by a profuse discharge of pus from the ear.—See Rope Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 455. CARIES OF THE TEMPORAL BONE. 2677. A Temporal Bone, in which ulceration has extended from the meatus auditorius externus, through the greater part of the base of the petrous portion of the bone, and has destroyed nearly all the cavity of the internal ear. x. 2 2678. Portion of the left Temporal Bone of a young man. A section has been made along the meatus auditorius externus, and through the cavity of the tympanum. The membrana tympani is very much thickened, and there is an ulcerated aperture near its anterior margin, through which a bristle is passed into the cavity of the tympauum. Another bristle is passed through a passage formed by ulceration, which leads from the tympanum to the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and is thence continued through an aperture in the adjacent part of the squamous portion. x. 5 The patient had purulent discharge from the ear for many years. Two days before his death, after having long suffered from intense headache, he was suddenly affected by paralysis of the right leg ; then of the right hand ; and he gradually became comatose. Pus was found in the cavity of the cerebral arachnoid j and the longitudinal, lateral, and petrosal sinuses were full of lymph and pus. 2679. Portions of two Temporal Bones. The right tympanic cavity is laid open, and a bristle is passed into a mass of firm, originally whitish, tubercular matter, which is adherent to the outer wall. A similar, though originally softer, material, completely fills the left tympanic cavity; over this the bone had perished, as seen in the preparation. The softened deposit escaped externally, partly through a small opening in the membrana tympani, and partly through a passage formed in the bone just above the mastoid, process. The outer table of the temporal bone is rough in consequence of an extensive exfoliation of the superficial layer. See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xii, p. 53. Vide Nos. 2676 and 2684. MORBID GROWTHS IN THE EAR. POLYPI. 2680. Section of an Ear, exhibiting a growth of substance, like firm granulations, springing from the membranous lining of the tympanum. A portion of the growth is firmly adherent to the membrana tympani. x. 1 2681. A Polypus, which was removed from the inside of the meatus auditorius externus. Part of its surface is smooth; the rest is nodular and warty. x. 3 2682. A similar, but smaller, specimen. It is suspended by the narrow pedicle which appears to have passed through a perforation in the membrana tympani. x. 4 2683. Part of a Temporal Bone. The external auditory meatus is opened from the front and below, so as to expose a long, soft, gelatinous polypus, the base