166 DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. curves, of which the principal one is in the lower dorsal re/°\^d,^^ to the right and backwards. The aorta is preserved, to show its adaptation to the altered form of the spine. (In Case C.) 1124. Portion of a Spine, with a strong lateral curve in which all the> dorsalW the first lumbar vertebra, are comprised. The aorta and the vena azygoshave been injected, to show the change in their direction corresponding with the altered form of the spine: their diameter is not lessened. (In Case C.) For other Specimens, see Series I, Nos. 2/2 and 273. ANTEROPOSTERIOR CURVATURE. . 1125. Bones of the trunk of an old woman. The dorsal portion of the, spine is deeply curved backwards. The dorsal vertebra, are reduced m size antmorly, but their texture is not distinctly altered. Between the nmth and te ^eie* a deposit of new bone. The anteroposterior diameter of ^.f^^SftiSe and the sternum is much curved forwards, but the height and width of the chest are diminished; the ribs anterior to the ^^,nf%B^^i ^ some of the lower intercostal spaces being almost °bllte'at;%^ ribs on both sides seem to have been fractured and reunited. The left halt oi the pelvis is atrophied, every part of the os mnommatum W red*cedm size The head of the left femur is so closely anchylosed to the acetabulum, that they Lem to form one bone. The shaft of the femur, which was turned inwards a a right angle with the trunk, was broken off after death. Its tissue, as well as that of the pelvis and ribs, was soft, light, and fragile. (In Case C.) 1126 A Spine, Thorax, and Pelvis. The spine, in its dorsal region, is curved tit'h thePcon 4ity backwards and a little to the right. The thorax projecting very far forwards, is flattened at its sides; its transverse diameter » only five inches; its anteroposterior diameter is eight inches and a half. lhe pelvis is of nearly natural form and size ; but its obliquity is somewhat lessened, aidTits antXposterior diameter is rather diminished, while its transverse diameter is, in an equal degree, increased. (In Case C.) 1127 The Spine of an aged person, which, in its whole extent, is curved with the convexity backwards^ and a little to the right. The bones are all healthy, but light. (In Case C.) 1128. A Spine, which, in the upper part of its dorsal region, is slightly curved to the righted backwards. New bone is formed on the margins ot many of the vertebrae. (In Case C.) MORBID GROWTHS IMPLICATING THE VERTEBR2E. 1129 The Upper Cervical Vertebra of the man from whom No. 2541 in Series XXXI was taken. The bodies of the second and third vertebrae are almost entirely destroyed by a malignant tumour. The loss of substance is somewhat greater on the left than on the right side. 1130. Lower Cervical Vertebra?, with a growth involving the body of the sixth. Everywhere the outer wall of this bone is pushed irregularly before the growth formino- in front a considerable nodulated prominence and behind a less marked and smooth projection. On either side the tumour has made its way through the bony envelope, involving the sixth transverse process, and projecting laterally