ANATOMY OF STUMPS AFTER AMPUTATION OF LIMBS. 482 amputate it above the knee. The stump sloughed, and the femur protruded ; the parts pre- served in the preparation were removed by a second amputation, a month atter the nrst. Ine patient subsequently recovered completely. 3209. The ends of the bones removed from the Stnmp of the Leg. The bones have coalesced and grown downwards in a pointed process abont one and a- half inches long. The mednllary canal extends nearly to the end of the process. From a boy, whose leg was amputated for an injury; about five years afterwards re- amputation was performed for conical stump, produced apparently by the growth ot tne bones without a corresponding growth of the soft parts. FORMATION OF BULBOUS ENLARGEMENTS ON NERVES AT THE EX- TREMITIES OF STUMPS. 3210. Portion of a Scapula, with the Axillary Nerves and Artery, from a person in whom amputation of the arm at the shoulder-joint had been performed a considerable time before death. The several nerves are firmly united together, and their extremities form hard bulbous sweUings, which are adherent m one mass to the cicatrix in the skin. VIIL 3211. Section of part of a Femur, with the nerves, vessels, and muscles, thirty years after amputation. The medullary cavity is closed for some way above the end of the bone. The extremities of the popliteal and peroneal nerves are united in one bulb-like enlargement, which is attached to a dense white tissue, continued from the muscle, nerves, and vessels, to the end of the bone. VIII. io 3212 Portion of a Femur, with the ischiatic, and a branch of the anterior crural, nerve attached to it; from a Stump. The ischiatic nerve presents a small bulb-like swelling at its extremity, which was united by dense cellular tissue to the integument of the stump and to the end of the bone. The branch of the anterior crural nerve presents, in relation to its size, a larger bulb at its extremity, which was united in the same manner to the end of the bone and to the integument. Between the two nerves a triangular and flat spiculum ot bone has arisen from the outer surface of the femur. vm. 9 3213. A Stump of a Leg re-amputated on account of constant pain and ulcera- tion. From a man, aged 30 years. There was marked thickening of the sheath of the musculo- cutaneous nerve, which was also in a state of tension. The nerve was traced down to an ulcer, at the extremity of the stump, where it is probable its free extremity was exposed. There are the usual bulbous enlargements of the posterior tibial and other nerves.-See Darker Ward Book, vol. ii, p. 190.