DISEASES OF JOINTS. 94 disappeared, and the upper part of the shaft is fixed by an irregular growth of bone to the remains of the glenoid cavity and the base of the coracoid process. The spine and the inferior border of the scapula are thickened. b. 50 (In Case a.) 641. The bones of an Elbow-Joint, in which all the articular surfaces are united and surrounded by bone. The joint is in the semi-flexed position. b. 29 (In Case G.) 642. Sections of the bones of an Elbow-Joint, in which there is complete osseous anchylosis between the humerus and ulna. B. 30 (In Case Gr.) 643. The bones of an Elbow-Joint, exhibiting a complete and smooth osseous anchylosis of their articular surfaces. The bones are sound in texture. b. 39 (In Case G.) 644. The bones of a Carpus, with two of the Metacarpal Bones. There is osseous anchylosis of the metacarpal bones with the carpus, and of the several carpal bones with each other. A fracture of one of the metacarpal bones, which has been united, but with much displacement, probably preceded the disease of the articular surfaces. B- ^6 (In Case G.) 645. The bones of a Einger. There is osseous anchylosis, with slight lateral dis- placement, of the bones of the first and second phalanges. b. 33 (In Case G.) 646. An Os Innominatum and a Sacrum united by a bridge of bone, an inch wide, extending across the front of the right sacro-iliac symphysis. The symphysis itself appears to have been healthy. b. 55 (In Case G.) 647. A similar Specimen ; but the bridge of bone is much wider, extending from the upper edge of the sacrum to the margin of the superior aperture of the pelvis. B' 66 (In Case G.) 648. A similar Specimen. The bridge of bone here extends across both the upper and lower parts of the front of the sacro-iliac symphysis; and it also appears as if portions of the surfaces of the symphysis itself are united by bone. b. 57 (In Case G.) 649 The bones of a Hip-Joint, in which the head of the Eemur rests partly in the acetabulum and partly upon the ilium, and in this situation has become firmly and smoothly united by bone. In this, as in the preceding specimen, all the bones are of natural weight and hardness. The acetabulum is deeply ulcerated. (In Case G.) 650 Sections of the bones of a Hip-Joint, exhibiting complete osseous union of the head of the femur with the acetabulum. Their walls and cancellous tissue have coalesced, and are uninterruptedly continuous. The femur is fixed in a position of adduction and extreme flexion. There are traces of healed ulceration through the bottom of the acetabulum into the pelvis. b. 2 (In Case G.) 651. Bony Anchylosis of the Hip-Joint, with extreme flexion and adduction of