GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 501 3323. A Growth springing from the skin and composed of ruddy, nodular, foliaceous papillae. The subjacent cutaneous tissue appeared infiltrated. Microscopically the papillas consist of round-celled tissue continuous with the coriura, but which does not extend to any considerable depth into it. They are covered with epithelium, the lower layers of which are columnar. The growth was removed from the back of a young woman aged 22 years. It grew from a, small warty growth which existed at birth. Seven years before admission to the hospital caustic was applied to the growth, because it had become raw and painful. It subsequently grew more rapidly.—See President Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 15. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 171. 3324. A flat, finely nodulated, sessile warty Growth, which was removed from the perineum of a gentleman, aged 35 years. He had resided in hot climates, and attributed its formation to the sweating and friction of garments, which sometimes caused intense irritation. It had been growing three years before removal. Microscopic examination showed, in addition to an increase of superficial epithelium, a con- siderable ingrowth from the deep stratum of the rete Malphigii in the form of papillary pro- cesses, containing in places "cell-nests." The growth, in fact, appeared to be in transition to epithelioma. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 173. Presented by T. Smith, Esq. CANCERS, CARCINOMATA. EPITHELIAL CANCER, EPITHELIOMA. 3325. An Epithelioma on the under surface of the heel, an inch and a half by two inches in diameter. The surface is hard, fissured, and covered by warty papilla?; the edges are raised by thickening of the epidermis. The growth extends upwards on the inner side, and here the papillae covering the base are smaller and softer. A section shows that the base of the ulcer is formed by a softish medullary substance, which extends downwards as far as the bone and considerably beyond the edges of the growth. Examination with the microscope showed that the growth was an epithelioma. Numerous columns of cornified epithelium extended from the surface deeply into the growth. Removed by amputation from a man, aged 56 years. Eight years before admission to the Hospital he noticed a hard corn on the left heel, which ho meed to have cut every week. After a time the corn began to grow and two years ago it was removed, but recurred, and six months before admission the growth was again removed with the same result. The femoral glands were not enlarged.—See Darker Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 395. Microscopic sections are preserved, Nos. 174, 175. 3326. Sections of an Epithelioma, removed from a chimney-sweeper's neck. It forms a nearly regular conical mass, rising half an inch above the level of the surrounding skin, and covered with a laminated black scab. It bore much resemblance to a patch of rupia, except in that its base measured less than its height. Its substance within the scab is soft, friable, with mingled tints of pale brown and white. Its base rests on the subcutaneous tissue. XXXV. 99 The patient was 30 years old, and had been a sweep for twenty-seven years. The disease had existed for nine weeks. He recovered quickly from the operation and returned to his occupa- tion, but a year later had epithelial cancer of the scrotum. This also was removed, and he remained free from disease for at least two and a half years. 3327. A Hand, with part of the Fore-arm, removed on account of a growth covering nearly half the surface of the skin. The growth is warty, very vascular superficially ulcerated, with an everted sinuous mai'gin. It bears a close resem- blance to an ulcerated cancer of the scrotum in chimney-sweepers. xi. 6 The patient was 49 years old. Five years before the amputation of his hand he was employed