298 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE STOMACH. irregularly ulcerated surface from which a slough of mucous membrane sepa- rated. The destruction has been most extensive in the lower part of the oeso- phagus, the ulcerated and granulating surface of which was continuous with that of the cardiac orifice of the stomach shown in the preceding preparation. Part of the slough, a portion of which includes the whole circumference of the lining membrane of the oesophagus, is suspended in the upper part of the bottle. xv. 28 It is uncertain how much sulphuric acid the patient swallowed. She lived ten days, and appeared to have recovered from the effects of the poison, when she died with bronchitis. 1945. Two portions of blood clot vitrified by sulphuric acid. They were taken from the inferior vena cava of a man who swallowed about a pint of sulphuric acid. A considerable part of the stomach was destroyed and the acid escaped into the abdominal cavity and penetrated its contents.—See Post Mortem Boole, vol. vii, p. 103. 1946. Part of a Stomach, showing several large, but healing, ulcers. xv. 35 From the body of a man who died eleven days after swallowing about two ounces of strong hydrochloric acid.—See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. x, p. 435. 1947. A Stomach and (Esophagus, from a case of poisoning by nitric acid. xv. 36 Other Corrosive Poisons. 1948. The Stomach of a person who died in consequence of having taken oxalic acid. The greater part of the mucous membrane is of a dark brown colour, and very soft. Small vessels, full of black blood, are in many parts traceable beneath it. In some situations it is so completely disorganized as to have spontaneously separated in loose shreds. Upon the oesophagus the mucous membrane is corru- gated. xv- 10 A drawing is preserved, No. 217. 1949. Stomach of a woman, aged 46 years, who committed suicide by swallowing a quantity of Burnett's solution of chloride of zinc. Presented by W. B. Kesteven, Esq. GASTROSTOMY. 1950. Stomach with adjacent portions of abdominal and thoracic walls, from a man, aged 38 years, on whom the operation of gastrostomy was performed one week before death, on account of cancerous stricture of the oesophagus. The position of the external wound may be best appreciated by observing its relation to the umbilicus and to the cartilages of the ribs, both of which are preserved in the specimen. The stomach is firmly united to the margins of the skin wound, and the skin wound, above and below its connection with the stomach, has healed. The sutures remain in situ.—See specimen, Series XV, No. 1845. The case is related by Mr. Thomas Smith in the Clinical Society s Transactions, vol. v, 1872. 1951. A Stomach. About two and a half inches from the pyloric orifice, and rather nearer the lesser than the greater curvature is the vertical opening, with the integuments still attached to the margin, which was made in the operation of gastrostomy. The stomach was loosely glued to the parietal peritoneum, except on the left side of the opening; but the adhesions have now given way from the soaking to which the specimen has been subjected. Froma man aged 55 years, who was admitted to the Hospital with a cancerous stricture of the tpsonhaeus which had prevented his taking solid food for a fortnight. Dyspepsia had existed about one month A probang could not be passed. Gastrostomy was performed at the left linea semilunaris, and the stomach was attached to the sides of the wound by silver sutures, but was not opened until nine days later. The patient died exhausted on the third day after this operation. No evidence of peritonitis existed. Secondary nodules of hard cancer studded the surface of the lungs. a -rr . 1Tr j -n i i *e The oesophagus is preserved in Series XV, No. 1846.—See Kenton Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 75.