573 CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. DISEASES OP THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 141. Cast of a Head, at the back of which, and surpassing it in size, is a Tumour, which appeared to originate in the dura mater, and was composed ol medullary substance. Presented by Joseph. Hodgson, Esq. 142. Cast of the Head of James Cardinal, a man who was affected with hydro- cephalus from his infancy, and whose case is described by Dr. Bright m the " Medical Reports." The head measures thirty-four inches and a half m cir- cumference. Presented by Thomas Wormald, Esq. 143. Model of a Hernia Cerebri, or protrusion of the brain after fracture of the skull. 144. Cast of part of a Boy's Forehead, in whom, after fracture of the skull, the brain protruded. The surface, however, healed over perfectly, and he lived in good health for many years after the injury. Presented by J. S. Hichens, Esq. DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 145. Xeroderma (Ichthyosis simplex). Cast of a Fore-arm and Hand taken from a young woman, aged 23 years. She was spare and fair-haired, never very robust, but not delicate. The disease existed from the time of birth. A sister and brother, aged 39 and 27 years, were similarly affected. Affection most marked on trunk and lower limbs ; skin of face very smooth, with tendency to crack and peel off, like layers of collodion. Hands and fingers small, skin very hard and horny, and tightly bound down. Palms especially rough and hard, although no manual labour had ever been performed. No want of development in metacarpus, as observed in some of these cases by Sir Erasmus Wilson. Proxi- mal phalanges seem unduly small. See St. Bartholomeio's Hospital Reports, vol. viii, p. 52, 1872. 146. 147. Ichthyosis Cornea (Hystrix). Two Casts taken from a lad, aged 13, years, the subject of this affection from time of birth. He had lived in the country all his life ; was well grown and well nourished ; hair light. At birth, small red spots were noticed upon the body ; in three days there was " heaping up" upon them. The disease is especially developed upon the limbs, where it runs in linear masses, raised about a quarter of an inch from the unaffected skin. On the trunk are patches and streaks of xeroderma and slightly developed papillary ichthyosis, though nowhere, in this minor form, of a brown or grey colour. At intervals, upon the arms are spurs, of a horny nature, more than a quarter of an inch in length, and slightly curved. One spur is situated on the prepuce, like the claw of a kitten. There is a certain amount of symmetry as to the affection on the limbs. The elbows and knees are especially covered; and very dense growths have occurred in these parts, horny processes being set in close series, slightly movable upon their bases. The distal phalanx of the right little finger is incurved, as the result of an early injury. The palms of the hands are much affected, and the epidermis is thickened; the soles are merely thickened, and present no papillary ridges. The hands' are some- what small. There is a brown, fimbriated patch upon the umbilicus. Brown patches are found around and upon the nose and mouth, on the helices and lobules of the ears, and around the neck. A dense, prominent cluster is situated on either fold of the nates. The mouth,- tongue, gums, and scalp are not