DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 217 with clot. The left subclavian and left brachiocephalic veins are obliterated where they lie in contact with the wall of the cavity. From a man, a<*ed 31 years, who was said to have liad a swelling on the left side of the neck for two years. Three days before his admission to the Hospital there was bleeding from an open- ing in the neck, which was controlled by pads. On admission, after the removal of the pads, a gush of blood took place from an opening at the lower part of the left side of the neck. The cavity with wldch the opening communicated was exposed by an incision, and—as the bleeding vessel could not be secured—it was plugged with lint soaked in perchloride of iron. The patient died on the fourth day after the operation, but the bleeding did not recur. The vessels were probably ulcerated through by the formation of a chronic glandular abscess in the neck.—See Abernethy Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 263. 1441. The external Iliac and Femoral Vessels of the right side. A mass of indurated tissue containing enlarged lymphatic glands is seen surrounding the femoral vessels. In the middle of this mass is an abscess cavity, through which the femoral artery and vein pass. In the recent state it was large enough to contain a small orange, and was filled with blood clot, which was firm and laminated around the walls. Three openings in the integument covering Scarpa's triangle led into the abscess. The distal end of the femoral vein opens abruptly into the abscess cavity:, a glass rod is placed within it. About an inch of this vessel is completely destroyed. The proximal end is filled by a firm blood clot, which extends three or four inches up the vessel. No blood clot was found in the distal end. A small vertical opening with ragged edges is seen on the inner side of the femoral artery where it lay in contact with the abscess cavity. There is also a linear opening about two lines long below this. The external coat is dissected up from that portion of the vessel which lies within the abscess cavity. A silk ligature is seen around the external iliac artery half an inch above the origin of the epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries. The specimen was taken from a man, aged 36. In March he contracted gonorrhoea; a slight indolent swelling of the glands in the right groin occurred, and, although the discharge ceased in a few weeks, the glandular enlargement remained. In November an abscess formed, and discharged itself. On the 29th of this month hemorrhage occurred from one of the openings communicating with the abscess cavity. The bleeding recurred almost daily until December 4th, when he was admitted to the Hospital. There was an ill-defined swelling in the right Scarpa's triangle, which was found to have distensile pulsation and a systolic bruit. Three ulcerated openings over the swelling were filled with blood. On the night of December 5th a gush of dark blood, which escaped in jets, took place from one of the openings. The external iliac artery was shortly after ligatured. The patient showed no signs of rallying, and died next morning.—See Abernethy Ward Book, vol. v, p. 87. This, and the case from which the preceding specimen, No. 1440, was taken, are described by Mr. Savory, in the Transactions of the Medico-Chirurgical Society, vol. Ixir, 1881. 1442. A Femoral Artery and Vein, which were exposed and partly destroyed in the progress of a phagedsenic ulcer. The coats of the artery, to the extent of about an inch, are completely disorganised, and two small ragged openino-s are visible in this portion of the vessel. Above this part of the artery a circular indentation in its walls may be perceived, which was occasioned by a ligature placed around it in consequence of haemorrhage from the openings just men- tioned. A portion of the vein is obliterated, and its cavity below the obliterated part is filled by a clot of blood. XIII The disease extended from the labia of a woman, and had destroyed a large portion of the perineum before it reached the groin. 1443. The left Femoral Artery and Vein of a girl, aged 18 years, who died from hemorrhage. The preparation shows an ulcerated opening of some size in the front part of the femoral artery, where it lies in Scarpa's triangle. The arterv at this point is quite separated from its sheath. There are two smaller openino-s in the adjacent portion of the femoral vein. Both artery and vein lay in°a