473 DISEASES OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. opaque-white undulating fibres, of which the larger appear on the section to form partitions dividing it into several round masses. xxxiv. 22 Microscopically this tumour closely resembled the preceding specimen. From a woman, 25 years old, in whom it had been growing two years, and had occasionally been the seat of severe pain. Vide No. 3319, Series L. CARTILAGINOUS TUMOUR. 3160. An oval nodulated Tumour, consisting of a mixture of cartilage and bone, which was removed from the mammary gland of a bitch. xxxiv. 13 FIBROUS TUMOUR. 3161. A portion of a very large Tumour, which was removed with a woman's breast. It is composed of an clastic, tough, white, homogeneous substance, arranged in closely connected lobes, and formed of fine fibro-cellular tissue, with compactly and irregularly woven filaments. The whole tumour was of an oval form, and weighed seven pounds. xxxiv. 18 Microscopically the tumour consists almost entirely of fibrous tissues. The patient was between 30 and 40 years old. The tumour had been growing thirteen years, and produced little inconvenience, except by its weight. She used to sit with her breast resting on her knees, till the integuments began to slough. The mammary gland lay under the tumour, and appeared healthy. The patient recovered completely after the operation. The rest of the tumour is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. MYXOMATA, SARCOMATA, AND ADENO-SARCOMATA. 3162. Section of a Tumour, which weighed eight pounds and occupied the situa- tion of the mammary gland. The outer surface of the tumour is uneven, knobbed, and appears to have been loosely connected with the adjacent parts! Its section shows that it is composed of a light grey, semi-transparent substance, compact and glistening on the cut surface, and variously intersected by slender bundles of fibres. A few small cysts, with polished internal surfaces, are scattered in the substance of the tumour; and at the lower part of the section the cysts are filled by lobulated growths from their walls. xxxiv. 2 Microscopically the tumour consists of myxomatous tissue, containing small cyst cavities with occasional tracts of fibrous tissue.—See microscopic sections, No. 143, and a drawing Vide Nos. 3288 and 3288a in Series L. SARCOMA. 3163. Section of a Breast and of a large Tumour developed in the mammarv gland. The tumour is spheroidal in form, and nearly three inches in diameter It is composed of a very firm, compact, greyish substance, traversed by numerous undulating white fibrous bands. It is connected by loose cellular tissue with health 6 the mammai7 gland> which is pressed aside but appears ,-r, y' . . xxxiv. 24 Microscopic sections were preserved, No. 146. A drawing of the tumour is preserved, No. 525 CO^^r^^el^ ti8SUe enCl°Sing S°me gWtisS«e' bufc - Pl-es it is largely 3164. A Tumour, exactly resembling in its structure that in the preceding specimen. It separated by sloughing from the breast of the same person g m , xxxiv. 25 ,~* ™"s ^ »-s s sgjs sots tsrs ™