DISEASES OF BONES. 79 she had, for a long period, a discharge from the socket, of W ©it racted tooth, and was told by a surgeon that the jaw was necrosed. The tumour grew in this situation. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 52. 537. An Inferior Maxillary bone, the greater part of which is irregularly expanded to form imperfect septa between cysts. These, which_ originaled independently of one another in the interior of the bone, were lined with a highly vascular membrane, and contained thin, serous, or grumous, blood- tinged fluid. Of some the walls were thin; of some, thick and resisting, as in the case of the posterior mass, which, in its increase, pressed upon, and caused absorption of, the left ascending ramus and coronoid process. I. 308 This preparation was obtained from the body of a man aged 75. The disease had been five years in progress. The age of the patient prohibited its removal, but the various cysts were from time to time punctured and their contents evacuated.—See an account of the case by Mr. Coote. Lancet, October 10th, 1857. 538. Portion of Superior Maxilla containing a mass of Colloid Cancer, which filled the antrum and the spheno-maxillary fossa. It was removed from a patient aged 31, and had been growing three years. DENTIGEROUS CYSTS. 539. Poi'tion of a bony Cyst which was removed from the external and lateral part of a lower jaw. The cyst is lined by a thick and soft membrane which lias been in part separated from it. The cavity of the cyst was filled by a glairy fluid, and at the bottom of it a canine tooth of the second set was adherent to the lining membrane. Upon the exterior of the cyst are some branches of the facial nerve which were removed with it. At the bottom of t he bottle is the tooth which was contained in the cyst. I. 119 540. Part of a bony Cyst formed by expansion of the walls of the lower jaw of a sheep. The cyst was full of fluid, and an incisor tooth is loosely attached to its walls. i. 119a HYDATIDS IN BONE. 541. Half a Pelvis, exhibiting the effects of the growth of hydatids within the bones. The walls of the ilium are separated, and are in many places absorbed, so that there are large apertures in them, which open into a cavity extending through its whole interior. The same cavity communicates with that of the pelvis by a large opening in the acetabulum; and, by other openings, with a cavity in the interior of the sacrum, and with the spinal canal. There arc several apertures in the posterior part of the sacrum. All these cavities wore filled with hydatids, which had also protruded through the apertures in the walls of the bones, and were contained in cysts formed by the thickened periosteum and other tissues. I. 215 542. Part of the Acephalocyst Hydatids which were contained in the Bones just described. Some of them are entire, but the majority have been ruptured. i. 216 The patient was an elderly woman. There were other hydatids in a large cyst connected with the ovary. The disease was of long standing, and the patient died with suppuration of some of the cysts. ANGIOMA, INVOLVING BONE. 543. A Portion of the Skull-Cap of a child, which is very much thickened, and so soft in its texture as to be easily cut with a knife. It has throughout an appearance of great vascularity; and the soft parts covering It had the