PATHOLOGICAL MICROSCOPIC SPECIMENS. \\*\ Tumour of the Testicle. The cartilage is arranged in small rounded nodules separated by trabecule of tissue composed of spindle-cells The cartilage cells are abundant, small, and lie in the meshes of a hyaline matrix. From Specimen No. 2797. 121. Sections of a Sarcoma of the Testicle from a boy. The tumour is composed of small round cells lying in a loose reticulum of fibrous tissue. A tumour from the back of the same boy is preserved in No. 3293, p. 494, where the case is described. CANCER. 122. Section of a Cancer of the Testicle. Alveoli, enclosing closely packed oval or round cells of very uniform size, are formed by broad trabecule of embryonic connective tissue containing a large number of round and spindle- shaped nuclei, and in some places spindle-cells. From Specimen No. 2798. DISEASES OF THE PENIS. SYPHILIS. 123. A section through the Prepuce, and a Syphilitic Sore, which had existed eight weeks. The whole section, especially at the base of the ulcer, is closely crowded with round " indifferent " cells lying loose in the connective tissue or enclosed in the meshes of a connective tissue reticulum. The walls of the vessels are thickened. The patient had psoriasis and sore throat at the time of the removal of the sore. 124. A section of a Prepuce and of a Syphilitic Sore, believed to be non-infec- tive. It presents the same appearances as the preceding, except that the indifferent cells are less closely crowded, and an ingrowth of epithelium is apparent at the margins of the ulcer. DISEASES OF THE OVARIES. 125. Portion of an Ovarian Cyst, in which the capillary and other small blood vessels are irregularly dilated or varicose. Prepared by Professor Harting. Presented by Dr. von Leeuwen. 126. Sections of an Ovary, which has undergone Cirrhosis. 127. Sections of a Cancerous Papillary Growth, which was attached with many others to the inner surface of a large Ovarian Cyst by a pedicle of fibrous tissue : from this thin trabecule of connective tissue branch out, again giving off: finer secondary branches, which by anastomosing form irregular alveoli, mostly of an oval form. The margins of the alveoli are lined with, and also enclose, large granular epithelial-like cells. Their centre is occupied in many instances by colloid material. Among the innermost layer of cells, many may be observed undergoing colloid metamorphosis. From Specimen No. 2912. 128. Sections of a Tooth from an Ovarian Cyst in a Mare. It has all the structures of a perfect tooth. Presented by Professor Symonds.