314 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. the polypus could be felt in the rectum nearly four inches from the anus, attached to the posterior wall of the bowel. When protruded by long straining, it appeared as an irregular spheroidal mass, lobed, moderately firm, but brittle, about two and a half inches in its chief diameter, red like the adjacent mucous membrane, readily but not freely bleeding. Its base of attachment seemed to be rather more than an inch in diameter. Under the microscope, the tumour was seen to be composed of small cells like gland cells, and a small quantity of fibro-cellular tissue. Numerous papillae were found, with loops of capillaries in their interior, and covered with cylindrical epithelium. Upon a careful examination a short time after the removal of the tumour, no trace of it could be discovered. Presented by Mr. Thomson. 2064. A Fibro-cellular Polypus, removed from the rectum of a gentleman about 40 years old. Presented by Sir J. Paget. 2065. A Fibrous growth removed from the lower part of the Rectum. It is covered with a structure resembling mucous membrane, which, however, over portions, has the character of common integument, and long silken hairs grow from its surface. The growth is composed of fibrous tissue containing near the pedicle a small portion of bone with a medullary canal. xvi. 124 CANCER OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 2066. A portion of the commencement of the Rectum, showing a sudden con- traction of the intestine, about half an inch long and the size of a quill. The mucous membrane above and below the stricture is slightly thickened. The intestine at the situation of the contraction is bent on itself at an acute angle and bound in that position by adhesions, which pass across the angle. Microscopic examination showed tubules lined by cylindrical epithelial cells contained in a large amount of connective tissue (cylindrical-cell cancer). From a woman aged 37 years.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. viii, p. 14. 2067. Portion of a Rectum and of the Sigmoid Flexure of the Colon. There is an annular constriction at the point of junction of these two portions of the large intestine, and the canal is still further obstructed by the projection of a soft spongy medullary growth into its interior. The rectum itself appears healthy, but the colon is greatly dilated, and its walls much hypertrophied. xvi. 99 The patient, a middle-aged woman, died in the Hospital, after five weeks' suffering from com- plete obstruction of the intestinal canal. The caecum gave way in several places before death, and peritonitis ensued, consequent on the escape of fsecal matter. The case is narrated in the St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. v, p. 285. 2068. A Rectum, in which distinct masses of soft, spongy, medullary substance have grown from the mucous membrane for about three inches above the anus. Around these masses its coats are thickened and ulcerated. xvi. 42 2069. A Rectum and Urinary Bladder. Soft medullary tumours, arising from the mucous membrane of the rectum in its whole circumference, project into the cavity of the intestine, from the anus for about four inches upwards. The cellular tissue between the bladder and rectum is thickened and indurated. xvi. 56 2070. Portion of a Rectum. At a distance of about three inches from the anus the greater part of the circumference of the intestine is occupied by a firm medullary tumour, growing from beneath its mucous membrane. The mucous membrane is healthy. The tissues around that part of the rectum which is occupied by the morbid structure are thickened and condensed. Some lymphatic