DISEASES OF BONES. 81 550. Portion of a Skull-Cap, in which there has been extensive absorption. In the situation of the absorption of the inner table there were scrofulous tumours upon the dura mater. There were also sores in the scalp at the part where the outer table has been absorbed. A. 85 (In Case G.) 551. A Skull with the Lower Jaw. Many distinct portions of the cranium have been removed by ulceration like that consequent on the growth of tumours. In some situations, the absorption is confined to the diploe and outer table of the skull; in others, it extends through both tables. There has been disease in one of the articulations of the jaw, producing absorption of the articular cartilage, with a deposit of bone around the circumference of the glenoid cavity. The corresponding condyle is in part removed by absorption ; its surface is rough, except at one point, where it is highly polished, and has an ivory-like texture. In the ramus of the jaw on the same side, disease, apparently com- mencing in the cancellous tissue, has produced absorption of the bone at many separate and minute points. a. 87 (In Case G.) 552. A Skull-Cap, exhibiting ulceration of its outer and inner tables in numerous minute holes, of which many are distinct in close-set groups, but more have coalesced. There were fungous excrescences filling these minute excavations in the bones, some of which were attached to the pericranium, and others to the dura mater ; but it is uncertain whether they originated in the diploe or in the membranes investing the skull. A. 83 (In Case G.) 553. A Skull-Cap, with numerous minute round holes in both the outer and inner tables. Generally, the absorption of the outer corresponds with that of the inner table. An apparently similar specimen to the preceding, No. 552. A. 62 (In Case G.) 554. The Frontal, Parietal, and part of the Occipital Bones. The anterior surface of the frontal bone is to a considerable extent destroyed, leaving a large circular opening with irregular everted edges, portions of the outer table projecting in ridges around them. On the left side smaller perforations are visible, and the ridges become more conspicuous. Below, on this side, the walls of the frontal sinus are wanting, and the orbital plate, pushed downwards and forwards, is bounded anteriorly by a sharp and prominent ridge. On the right side the anterior wall of the frontal sinus has been destroyed, but the orbital plate is only slightly interfered with, and contrasts with the condition of the left. a. 160 From a man aged 26 years, who suffered for eight years from a tumour, slowly increasing, which was situated over the frontal hone, free from pulsation, and tolerant of pressure. It was partially removed by an operation. The patient sank rapidly under an attack of erysipelas accompanied by acute oedema of the larynx, for which tracheotomy was performed shortly before death. The openings, described above, were closed by the dura mater, except at the inferior border of the larger one, where the morbid growth (medullary cancer) perforated that membrane, and, forming a tumour the size and shape of a chestnut external to the visceral layer of the arachnoid, pressed upon the left anterior lobe of the brain. (In Case G.) 555. The Metacarpal Bone of a Little Finger. The bone is enlarged, apparently by an expansion of its walls; an osseous tumour growing from this bone had been removed some time previous to the amputation of the finger. r, 209 556. The upper part of a Femur, in which an oblique fracture, about an inch below the lesser trochanter, has united with angular deformity, the superior