DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE INTESTINES. 302 1973. Portion of a Colon. Its mucons membrane is generally thickened and in- durated : and there are numerous small, but deep, oval ulcers in it, with sharply circumscribed borders, which extend down to the muscular coat, and in many instances lead to more widely spread ulceration in the submucous tissue, lhe muscular and peritoneal coats appear healthy. XVI- From a patient who died with dysentery at the General Penitentiary, Millbank. 1974. Part of the Large Intestine from a boy. It presents the ordinary characters of dysentery in its early and acute stage. 111 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1975. Portion of a Colon, from a case of dysentery. Small portions of the surface of the mucous membrane, of various forms, are removed by ulceration. All the ulcers are situated on the free margins of the transverse folds of the mucous membrane, and by the sides of the lines formed by the longitudinal bands of muscular fibres. Their form is generally oval, or elongated m the direction ot the transverse folds. 1976. Another portion of the same Colon, from its lower part. By the extension of such ulcers as are shown in the preceding specimen, nearly the whole surface of the mucous membrane is removed. Portions of it remain hanging m shreds : and in some places the ulceration has extended to the muscular coat lhe coats of the intestine were soft, easily torn, dark, and infiltrated with dirty- coloured fluid. From a patient in the Penitentiary, Millbank. The whole length of the colon was similarly diseased, the extent of the disease increasing from the upper to the lower part. Presented by Dr. Baly. 1977. Portion of a Colon, in which the mucous membrane is extensively and rao-o-edly ulcerated. Large pieces of its remains hang in shreds m the cavity of The intestine. Many small distinct ulcers, also, may be seen, the result apparently, of disease of the follicles of the intestine. XVL 11 From a man who died with dysentery of long continuance. The whole of the large intestines were similarly diseased. The small intestines and other abdominal organs were healthy. 1978. Ulceration and sloughing of the mucous membrane of a portion of the , i i • XVI. xUo large intestine. From a case of dysentery. 1979. Extensive disintegration and sloughing of the mucous membrane, showing a more advanced stage of the dysenteric affection. XVI. ill TVT 11 ^ 1980. A similar specimen. AV1- 1981. Portion of large Intestine, the mucous coat of which is extensively de^royed by sloughing. XVI' From a case of dysentery. 1982 Portion of large Intestine. The mucous coat throughout thickened and pulpy is in parts destroyed, and hangs from the surface in shred-like sloughs r r J' r XVI. 114 From a case of dysentery. 1983. Portion of large Intestine, the mucous coat of which is almost entirely destroyed by sloughing. XVI- 115 From a case of dysentery. 1984. Portion of large Intestine, showing the contraction consequent upon the cicatrisation of dysenteric ulcers. xvi. lib The six preceding specimens and Nos. 1970 and 1971 are described by Dr. Baly m the G-ulstonian Lectures, 1847.