DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. 1848. An (Esophagus from a man, aged 56, showing an epithelial cancer in a admission into the Hospital, at which time it was nearly as large as it now appears. It often bled : mid destroyed life by the hemorrhage, and by the impediment which it caused to both deglutition and respiration. A part of the same tumour projected through the basdar portion of the occipital bone, and extended along the outside of the oesophagus, where it was connected with enlarged Lymphatic glands full of soft medullary matter. 1844. A Pharynx and Larynx, with the base of the tongue and other adjacent parts. A large ulcer, destroying a great part of the lower portion of the pharynx, has extended into the trachea directly below the cricoid cartilage. The right half of the cricoid cartilage is denuded, and separated from its con- nections with the upper ring of the trachea ; on this side also a portion of the thyroid cartilage is exposed. The margins of the ulcer are sharp and abrupt; its base is irregular, and was covered with a soft creamy matter, containing, probably, the debris of epithelioma. xxiv. 18 The patient, a woman, 36 years old, was in good health until fifteen months before death. She then began to have pain and difficulty in deglutition. These symptoms increased for nine months ; and then her voice became hoarse, and she had frequent cough without expectoration, especially on any attempt at deglutition. In a few weeks she had considerable haemoptysis ; and this recurred daily, and as often as, in examination of the throat, the thyroid cartilage was pressed. The case is related by Dr. Jeaffreson in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. ii, p. 51. 1845. The (Esophagus of a man, aged 38, on whom gastrostomy was performed one week before death (see specimen, Series XVII, No. 1950). In its course is a broad ring of epithelial cancel', smooth on the outside, but superficially ulcerated on the mucous surface. The stricture produced by it was nearly complete ; water would pass through only drop by drop. Above the stricture, the oesophagus was only slightly dilated, and elsewhere was quite healthy. The pneumogastric nerves were involved in the cancerous mass. On the upper curve of the stomach, at the pyloric end, was a small nodule of epithelial cancer ; no cancerous deposits were found elsewhere. The case is related in the Transactions of the Clinical Society, vol. v, 1872. There is a drawing of the specimen, No. 195. 1846. An (Esophagus, surrounded for about three inches of its length by a firm mass of cancer, which commences four inches below the cricoid cartilage. The bifurcation of the trachea, and the bronchi are adherent to, and partially im- bedded in, the anterior surface of the growth: the descending aorta is adherent to its left side ; its posterior surface was adherent to the vertebrae. The section of the tumour presents a dense fibrous aspect. An ulcerated canal large enough to admit a No. 10 bougie passes through the growth; nearly all trace of the normal structure of the oesophagus is here lost. Below the tumour the mucous membrane of the oesophagus is infiltrated in streaks, which extend as far as the cardiac orifice ; there are also small patches and sub-mucous nodules of the growth. The bronchial glands were infiltrated, as were also some of the medi- astinal ; two of these lying to the right of the trachea are preserved. The larger compressed the bracheo-cephalic vein, which was filled by a recent clot. Gastrostomy was performed. The stomach is preserved in Series XVII, No. 1951. 1847. The lower half of an (Esophagus, with the cardiac portion of the Stomach. Within and just above the cardiac orifice there is an annular, flat, spono-y growth, probably of medullary substance, ulcerated m its centre; by which growth, as well as by the thickening and contraction of the surrounding tissues the termination of the canal of the oesophagus is reduced to a very small calibre' Above the stricture the oesophagus is dilated, its muscular coat is hypertrophied" and its mucous membrane appears cedematous, and is at one part superficially ulcerated. The walls of the stomach are healthy. XXIV £