INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 132 was found resting against the anterior border and concave surface of tho scapula, close to the glenoid cavity, and below the coracoid process. A deposit of osseous substance, forming a hollow articular surface, has taken place upon the scapula in this situation. The fracture of the humerus had been united by fibro-cartilaginous substance, which was removed in maceration. C. 103 These injuries were the consequence of a fall upon the shoulder, about three months before death. The patient was a man upwards of 50 years of age. (In Case H.) Surgical Neck. 908. Bones of a Shoulder-Joint, exhibiting a fracture through the shaft of the humerus, just below the tuberosities. 0. 104 (In Case H.) Vide No. 845. Separation of the Upper Epiphysis. 909. A Scapula, with part of the Humerus, from a young person. A fracture extends through the body of the scapula, and through the base of the coracoid process. There is also a separation of the head from the shaft of the humerus at the line of union of the epiphysis. C. 89 (In Case H.) Shaft. 910. Sections of a Humerus, which has been fractured obliquely just above the middle of its shaft, and has been firmly repaired. The shaft is strongly arched backwards, probably from rickets. C. 25 (In Case H.) 911. Sections of a Humerus, which has been fractured rather below the middle of its shaft. The ends of the bones overlap, and the lower portion is united by intermediate bone to the anterior surface of the upper one. The exposed medullary tube is, in both portions, smoothly covered-in by a layer of compact bone. c. 61 (In Case H.) For other Fractures of the Shaft of the Humerus, vide Nos. 781, 782, 791, 800, 827, 846, 861, 862, 863, 866, Series IV, Nos. 1021, 1027. Lower Extremity of the Humerus. 912. A Comminuted Fracture of the lower extremity of the left Humerus. A transverse fracture passes obliquely through the bone above the level of the condyles, and a vertical fracture extending from this into the elbow-joint, sepa- rates the capitellum from the remainder of the articular surface of the humerus. From a man, aged 47, who died after secondary amputation of the arm. The injury was produced by a fall upon the elbow. (In Case H.) 913. The bones of an Elbow-Joint. A fracture extends in two directions through the internal condyle of the humerus into the elbow-joint. The two portions of the condyle separated by the fracture have not been reunited by bone. c. 38 (In Case H.) 914. The bones of an Elbow-Joint. The humerus has been fractured obliquely between the condyles, and transversely a little above them. The fractures are firmly united, but the internal condyle is flattened and elongated The articular surface of the ulna is adapted to this altered form of the humerus. It is uncertain whether the ulna has been broken. C. 36 (In Case H.) 915. A Humerus, which has been fractured in several directions, but chiefly obliquely downwards, just above the condyles. The fractures are firmly united, but an aperture remains in the line of one of them. C. 24 (In Case H.)