SEEIES XXXI. DISEASES AND INJUKIES OF THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. —♦— DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE SPINAL CORD. EFFUSION OF BLOOD BETWEEN THE MEMBRANES. 2531. Dorsal and Lumbar Portions of a Spinal Cord, in which a considerable quantity of blood has been effused in the tissue of the pia mater, especially on the anterior aspect, and about the roots of the nerves. There are several milk- white, oval, and irregular spots, like portions of cartilage, upon the arachnoid. The substance of the cord itself is healthy. vn. 9 From an elderly woman, who, three weeks before her death, had an attack of cerebral apoplexy, the symptoms of which were slight, though between two and three ounces of blood were effused in the anterior lobes of the cerebrum and in the membranes and arachnoid sac coyering them, and at the base of the skull. The time at which the effusion into the spinal membranes happened is uncertain. A drawing is preserved, No. 381. EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION (SPINAL MENINGITIS). EFFUSION OF LYMPH, &o. 2532. Spinal Cord and its Membranes from a case of rapidly progressive Spinal Meningitis. Thick greenish lymph extends from the cauda equina to the cervical enlargement. It lies between the pia mater and arachnoid. The cord itself appeared softened, but not otherwise altered. The inflammation is thought to have extended from an abscess (from which the patient had suffered for many months) along the sacral or lumbar nerves, through the intervertebral foramina and so along the cord.—See Lawrence Ward Booh, vol. iv, p. 377. 2533. Portion of a Spinal Cord partially surrounded by a firm, irregularly shaped deposit, contained between the dura mater and the neighbouring ver- tebrae, involving through its pressure the adjacent nerves. vn. 12 From a man who had suffered from paraplegia for a considerable time preceding his death. 2534. Portion of a Spinal Cord, with its Membranes, exhibiting a firm, tabu- lated, mass in the tissue behind and by the sides of the dura mater, within the third, fourth, and fifth dorsal vertebras. The spinal cord was compressed by it, but not otherwise altered. yn> q The patient was 36 years old. He had slight signs of the disease about fifteen months before death. For the last six months of his life he had paraplegia. The growth shown in the preparation, when recent, appeared vascular, and was connected, through the intervertebral