GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 504 jacent tumour—beneath which numerous vessels ramify, retaining the appearance they presented when first examined. The tumour, though for the most part smooth upon its surface, is marked in some places by small nodular outgrowths, and in others is irregularly fissured; at the latter the investing membrane is thickened and slightly opaque. xxxv. Ill The growth was connected with a malignant affection of all the serous membranes, under which disease the patient sank slowly and died. ******* SLOUGHING- OF MALIGNANT TUMOURS. 3336. A large brain-like Medullary Tumour spotted with blood. xxxv. 60 The patient was a woman, 40 years old. The tumour, which was situated in the middle of the back, had been four months in progress. The integuments sloughed oyer it, and as she was endeavouring to raise herself in bed, the whole mass fell out through the slough. The sloughing was followed by profuse haemorrhage, and she shortly after died. 3337. A mass of firm Medullary Cancer, separated by sloughing, from a man's thigh. The femoral artery (marked by a bristle) passes through it; the femoral vein, in which a piece of glass is placed, lies in a deep groove on its inferior surface. xxxv. 107 The man was 46 years old, large, and strong. The tumour was of nine months' growth. In an attempt to remove it such haemorrhage ensued, that the operation was discontinued when about half of its surface had been uncovered. It was gradually removed by sloughing, together with the portions of the femoral artery and vein, each about three inches long, which are here shown with it. No bleeding occurred either during or after the separation of the tumour, and the cavity left by it completely healed ; but, within six months, the patient died with renewed growths of the same substance in the thigh and the lungs. The case is fully related by Mr. J. A. Kingdon, in the Medical Gazette, 1850. COLLOID CANCER. 3338. A Colloid Cancer, springing from the soft structures of the second toe. As the section through them shows, the phalanges are only surrounded by—they are not involved in—the mass. The parts were removed by Pirogoff's amputation from a sailor, 45 years old. Ten years before he had observed soft, spongy, flattened papules, about as big as split peas, one on either Bide of the end of the toe. These gave him very little inconvenience, and grew very slowly till four months before his admission to the Hospital, when the disease began to grow quickly and became painfid. In the fortnight preceding the amputation it encroached very rapidly on the soft parts of the dorsum of the foot as a soft, spongy, vascular mass, over which the skin was dusky, mottled, and streaked with distended veins. A drawing showing the specimen in the recent state is preserved, No. 588. 3339. A portion of a large mass of Colloid Cancer, which was formed in the abdomen, apparently in connexion with the omentum. The section displays the whole of the morbid substance partitioned into cells of various sizes, which are bounded and intersected by thin layers of fibrous tissue, and are filled with a transparent, pale, yellowish, semi-fluid, jelly-like substance. The external surface of the morbid mass is nodulated and invested by a tough thick membrane. xxxv. 41 3340. Another mass of Colloid Cancer from the same patient. It appears to have been produced in the abdominal walls and in the substance of a thick and long cord-like adhesion between them and the omentum. It presents the same struc- ture as the preceding. A portion of the transversal is abdominis muscle is attached to its outer surface. xxxv. 42 From a woman, between 40 and 50 years old, in whom the disease had been long in progress. The abdominal cavity was filled by three or four gallons of the gelatimform substance which had escaped from its cells ; and all the abdominal walls, the mesentery, and omentum, seemed to be involved in the disease.