240 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. canal. It was associated with extensive disease of the aortic and mitral valves. vi. 79 The heart is in Series VII, No. 1324. 1560. Portion of a Femoral Artery, exhibiting the obliteration of its trnnk and of the commencement of the profunda, by the deposit of fibrin in concentric layers, forming a firm clot about an inch in length. The arterial coats appear healthy. xni. 22 From a young man who died with disease of the aortic valves. Some time before his death the limb from which this artery was taken became, without any evident cause, pulseless and cold. 1561. A portion of the right Femoral Artery of the patient from whom the specimen of disease of the aortic valves shown in Series VII, No. 1332, was taken. A few days before death he complained of acute pain and numbness in the right thigh. The temperature of the limb was at the same time con- siderably reduced. The artery is laid open to show a firm fibrinous plug filling up and obstructing the canal. The clot presented in different parts some slight differences of consistence and colour. The walls of the artery exhibited in some spots traces of atheromatous degeneration. 1562. A Clot, which was removed from the pulmonary artery of a woman, aged 33 years, who died suddenly from syncope nineteen days after delivery of her third child, having apparently progressed favourably up to that date. The clot measures three inches in length and about one in diameter. One extremity, that which was towards the heart, is smooth and conical; the opposite is hollow, with ragged edges, leading into a cavity which occupies the greater portion of the "interior, and is partially filled with grumous rust-coloured fibrin. It appears as if the clot had been gradually softening and disinte- grating from the interior. The exterior is of a deep orange-colour, and its struc- ture presents no trace of lamination. xm. 152 1563. Another and smaller Clot, in situ, from the opposite lung in the same case. It measures two inches and three-quarters in length and half an inch in diameter. Its extremity is rough and conical. It completely fills one of the primary pulmonary trunks, being continued into three branches by forked extremities. Of these, two, like the main clot, are firm and solid, the third is soft and pulpy. xm- 153 Presented with the preceding by Mr. Havers. 1564. A Pulmonary Artery, with a portion of the Lung. The right branch of the pulmonary artery is completely filled by a firm coagulum of fibrin, closely adherent to its internal surface. The smaller branches are also filled by similar coao-ula. The portion of the coagulum in the lower part of the bottle acci- dentally separated in the examination of the body. xm. 100 The patient, a middle-aged lady, died suddenly during apparent convalescence after the removal of a large medullary tumour of the breast, preserved in No. 3310, Series L. The case is related by Sir J.Paget in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxvii, p. 166. London, 1844. 1565. Arteries from the base of a Brain, the canals of which are in various decrees obstructed by coagula. There was no disease of the heart, but soften- ing of portions of the brain. vi. 80 Presented by Mr. Grosse. 1566. Part of one of the branches of the Pulmonary Artery from an extensively tubercular lung. Its canal contained some fluid blood, in addition to the firm, whitish coagulum, seen in the preparation. The latter clings but slightly to the wall of the artery, being however fixed by prolongations extending into the