DISEASES OF BONES. 33 decossor, No. 232. At the time of removal of the latter, there was no indication of new bone. The patient had been employed in the match trade for several years ; from 1868 to 1871 in carrying fresh matches, and from the latter date to the end of 1872 in preparing phosphorus- paste. The disease seemed to begin about the middle of December, 1872. The lower jaw was removed in August, 1873. He died January 22nd, 1874.—See account of case by Mr. Savory, Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. lvii, p. 187. 247. A Skull-Cap, in which a small circumscribed ulcer of the outer table of the frontal bone has healed. There are general thickening and induration of the tables and obliteration of the diploe. A. 72 (In Case F.) 248. Section of a Tibia from a boy. There has been Necrosis of a large portion of the whole thickness of the wall. The largest piece of the dead bone has been removed from the cavity in which it lay, and is preserved in the following preparation. The outer surface of this piece of dead bone, as well as of that which remains in this specimen, is quite smooth, the periosteum baviug separated without any portions of bone attached to it. On the inner surface of the separated periosteum, a layer of new bone, half an inch thick, and. forming almost a complete new wall to the tibia, has been produced. The outer surface of this new bone is covered by the old periosteum, the continuity of which with that of the articular ends is shown ; and the inner surface of the new bone is lined by a soft vascular membrane, which was in close contact with the outer surface of the dead bone. A portion of skin is left, which formed part of the boundaries of an external ulcer, exposing the dead bone on the front of the leg. f) 133 Presented by Sir James M'Gregor. 249. The dead and separated portion of the Tibia last described. 1. 133a 250. Part of a Tibia. A large portion of the middle of the shaft of the tibia, including parts of its outer surface, and a much greater extent of its inner layers and cancellous^ tissue, has perished. A nearly complete wall of new bone, from half an inch to an inch thick, has been formed around the sequestrum ; its external surface is irregular; the inner is lined by Granula- tions. The new bone is of finely porous texture. L 3 251. Sections of a Tibia, in which large portions of the wall are separated after necrosis. The separated portions include the outer and middle lamina? of the wall; they are enclosed by new periosteal bone, which closely simulates the compact layer of the shaft. : 267 The patient was a feeble young woman 22 years old, in whom the necrosis had existed more than a year before she died with pulmonary disease. About six months before her death the presence of necrosis being suspected, in consequence of the large quantity of pus discharged through two minute apertures in the front of the tibia, a portion of the bone was cut awav with the trephine, and some sequestra were removed. The patient was for a time benefited bv the operation ; but the openings into the cavities containing the other sequestra remained and were only narrowed by the growth of new bone around them. The case is related bv Mr. Stanley in his Treatise on Diseases of the Bones, p. 138-9. y The specimen is represented in a drawing, No. 7. 252. A Tibia the greater portion of the shaft of which has necrosed and separated. The old bone is replaced by a cylinder of new bone, havino- numerous cloacas m its walls. A portion of the lower end of the old shaft perforated and roughened by absorption, is still enclosed. L 3x7 25r?u ^ T^ia in Whic^ there has been Necrosis of a large portion of the shaft lhe dead bone remains enclosed within a case of new bone. Presented by Gurney Turner, Esq.