232 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. death, when, while leaning over the side of his bed, he suddenly became insensible, and in a few minutes died. There is a drawing of the brain witb tbe clot in its recent state, No. 350. 1520. Aneurism of a middle Cerebral Artery of irregular form, and solid in the greater part of its extent. A slight elevation upon its surface is marked by the convergence of three arteries, one of which is obliterated as it lies upon the sac wall. The remaining two, laid open and indicated by bristles, lead to the interior of a sac, evidently formed from part of their walls. About half an inch from these vessels there is a small rent, shown by a bristle which is passed through it. The wall at this point is formed of calcareous matter, and the slit is evidently due to the cracking of soft parts at the edge of one of the calcareous plates. From this aperture a quantity of blood had escaped during life, and had so determined the death of the patient. The tumour consists of laminated clot, except at the part where a small cavity is shown, with which the arteries described, as well as the crack, clearly commu- nicate. The sac wall is free from the calcareous change, except at the point referred to. vi. 81 From an elderly man, who had suffered from severe attacks of epilepsy. These ceased suddenly, and for eighty days he appeared to have regained his health. On the eighty-first day he died in a few hours with the usual symptoms of apoplexy. 1521. Aneurism of the right Middle Cerebral Artery. The aneurism is double, consisting of two sacs, the larger of which having much the thinner wall, com- municates with the smaller or thicker-walled sac, close to the opening between the latter and the artery. Both sacs contain laminated blood-clot. A. bristle is passed through the communication between the artery and thicker-walled sac, and out through a rupture in the wall of the thinner sac. From a boy, aged 13 years, who died from rupture of the aneurism. The arteries were generally healthy. The mitral valve was diseased, but the heart was not much hypertrophied. 1522. A sacculated Aneurism with thin walls at the bifurcation of the Middle Cerebral Artery. A large rent in the sac is seen. From a woman, aged 33 years, who died almost immediately after admission to the Hospital. Blood was effused into the pia mater at the base and over the convexity of the brain.—See Post Mortem Boole, vol. iii, No. 120. 1523. An Aneurism as large as a hazel nut, springing from the right Middle Cerebral Artery about one inch from its origin. From a man, aged 50 years, who was for eight years an inmate of an asylum. His mania was neither epileptic, suicidal, nor dangerous, and he worked on the farm, except for two periods, when he was more or less violent and excited. There were no symptoms indicating cerebral aneurism. He died quite suddenly, when apparently in good health. A blood clot was found in the right fissure of Sylvius, which proceeded from a large rent on the distal side of the aneurism. There was considerable erosion of the brain tissue, in which the aneurism was imbedded. The brain substance was firm and pale. The arteries were small, tortuous, and undergoing calcareous degeneration. Presented by T. O. Wood, Esq. 1524. A small Saccular Aneurism of the Anterior Communicating Artery. A minute rupture is seen on its anterior aspect. From a woman, aged 56 years, who, when first seen, complained of severe headache, was dull, yet sensible. She gradually became comatose. The pupils were extremely contracted throughout. Death took place on the fourth day after the onset of symptoms. A clot was found in front of the optic commissure, which extended along the cerebral vessels. Presented by Mr. Spark. 1525. Part of a Brain showing iipon the Anterior Communicating Artery a small ruptured aneurism, the size of a hemp seed, and having very thin walls.