INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 114 (In Case H.) place from meningitis nine weeks after the date at which the fracture occurred. There is a moderate amount of provisional callus around the fracture, over which the periosteum may be seen to be continuous: callus has also formed be- tween the fragments, but the medullary canal is not yet re-established. There is no deformity : the limb was shortened half an inch. The usual treatment by a long splint and subsequently gum and chalk bandage was adopted. 785. Sections of a Clavicle, exhibiting a fracture which occurred while the patient was holding a weight above his head. Considerable progress has been made m the repair of the fracture, the ends of the bone being held firmly together by an osseous ring extending around them. The periosteum is in part separated, to show that this osseous ring is deposited wholly beneath the membrane. Callus is also in process of formation between the fractured surfaces. The general texture of the clavicle does not appear diseased. Itl. 92 From a man aged 60. He stated that he had suffered rheumatic pains in the clavicle for some time before the fracture occurred: but he was not aware of the existence of the ti ncture ; and when, about two months afterwards, he came under the care of a surgeon, the ring of bone around the clavicle received so distinct a pulsation from the subclavian artery, that the swelling was suspected to be an aneurism. The patient died of erysipelas of the head three months after the fracture of the clavicle. 786. Sections of the upper part of a Femur, in which a fracture partially united extends obliquely through the base of its neck, in a line marked by bristles. The synovial and periosteal coverings of the neck of the bone are entire, and there is, in consequence, no separation of the fractured surfaces. in. 32 The patient was a man 60 years old. He was knocked down, and complained of pain in the hip ; but there was neither shortening nor eversion of the limb, and its several motions coidd be exercised with perfect freedom and power. He died with intestinal disease five weeks after the accident. The case is described by Mr. Stanley, in the Medico-Chirurgieal Transactions, vol. xiii, p. 511. London, 1825. 787. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting an intra-capsular fracture of its neck. The plane of the fracture is vertical, extending from the upper margin of the head straight downwards through the neck to the outer part of its lower border. Bristles are introduced between the fractured surfaces, which are in close apposition, and it will be observed that the attachment of the capsule to the bones is entirely beyond the line of the fracture. That portion of the neck of the bone which remained connected with the trochanters is partly absorbed, and the union of the fractured surfaces, although not complete, is by osseous matter inlaid between them. ni. 50 The person from whom this specimen was taken was 18 years of age. In a fall from a cart lie injured his right hip ; such symptoms ensued as gave rise to the belief that he had dislocated the head of the femur into the foramen ovale. Efforts at reduction were accordingly made. About three months after the injury he died with small pox. The case is described by Mr. Stanley in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xviii, p. 256. London, 1833. 788. The Upper part of a Skull, with a depression of a small oval portion of the right side of the frontal bone, from a fracture received a long time before death.° Both the surfaces and the margin of the depressed part are smoothly and completely united; but on the inner surface are traces of a starred fracture of the internal table. C. Ill (In Case H.) 789. A Skull, in which there has been a comminuted fracture through the squamous portion of the right temporal bone, from which, also, a fracture extends through the meatus auditorius externus and base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, nearly as far as the margin of the foramen magnum. The several portions of the squamous bone which were insulated by the fracture, are firmly re-united, but with narrow intervals remaining in places between them : the fracture through the base is similarly united. C. 94