522 URINARY CALCULI. 77. A Calculus consisting of alternate layers of Urate of Ammonia containing Oxalate of Lime, and of pure Oxalate of Lime. From the bladder of a child 2£ years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle. 78. Fragments of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia with Oxalate of Lime; surrounding portion, Oxalate of Lime. From the bladder of a boy 2J years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Vincent. URATE OF AMMONIA. EARTHY PHOSPHATES. 79. Sections of a Calculus from the Bladder of a child. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia ; surrounded by the Phosphates. Lithotomy by Mr. Stanley. 80. Section of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia; surrounded by the mixed Phosphates, in which are layers of the same kind as the nucleus. From the bladder of a child. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle. 81. A Calculus weighing 820 grains. The nucleus is composed of Urate of Ammonia, with a considerable quantity of Calcium and Mixed Phosphates; the outer layer of Calcium Phosphate, with a little Mixed Phosphates and Uric Acid. Removed by lateral lithotomy from the bladder of a boy, aged 12 years, who had long suffered from symptoms of stone. He recovered from the operation.—See Rahere Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 281. 82. Section of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia with earthy matter; external part, principally the Phosphates. 83. Section of a Calculus consisting probably of Urate of Ammonia in the centre, and earthy Phosphates towards its surface. Removed from a native of India, and presented by Surgeon-Major Trestraill. 84. Section of a Calculus. Urate of Ammonia surrounded by the Mixed Phos- phates. 85. Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia: exterior fusible, with a large portion of animal matter. From the bladder of a boy aged 12. Lithotomy by Mr. Abbott. 86. Sections of a Calculus. Internal portion, Urate and Purpurate of Ammonia with the mixed Phosphates; external portion, mixed Phosphates, easily fused. From the bladder of a boy 2£ years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Vincent. 87. Section of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia with a little earthy matter ; surrounded by the mixed Phosphates. From the bladder of a boy 8 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle. 88. Section of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia; the rest, Urate of Ammonia alternating with the mixed Phosphates. From the bladder of a boy 4 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle. 89. Sections of a Calculus. Urate of Ammonia with about one-twentieth of