69 DISEASES OF BONES. 478. The other section of the same Femur dried after maceration. The osseous parts of the tumour appear as irregular outgrowths from the femur, or as deposits on its surface. On their surfaces they are brittle, lamellar, and in parts like pumice; more deeply, the chief growths are hard, very compact, and i\ on -like. Similar formations of hard bone occupy a portion of the cancellous tissue of the shaft, and its walls in the corresponding situation are similarly hard and ivory-like. In other parts, the walls of the shaft are more porous than is natural, as if they had been abnormally vascular. I. 270 479. Section of the upper Third of the same Femur. In the cancellous tissue near its great trochanter there is a small circumscribed mass of fibrous-looking substance, like that of which the greater part of the tumour in No. 477 is composed. I. 271 480. Section of a mass of inguinal Lymphatic Glands, taken from the same patient as the three preceding specimens. They are greatly enlarged, and their proper tissue is replaced by a very firm and compact pale substance, which is, in parts, obscurely fibrous, and altogether resembles very closely the principal mass of the tumour round the femur. The femoral artery and vein pass through the middle of the diseased glands. I. 272 The four preceding specimens were taken from a man 45 years old, of unhealthy aspect. The tumour round the femur had been observed for five months, and was so painful that he solicited the removal of his limb, though dissuaded on account of the disease in his inguinal glands. He lived two months after the amputation, and, in addition to those shown in Noa. 179 and 480, masses of substance resembling the tumour round the femur were found in the place of other inguinal and lumbar glands, and in the lungs. In many instances these masses contained osseous as well as the apparently fibrous tissue. The case is related by Mr. Stanley in his Treatise on Diseases of the Hones, p. 168. 481. Section of the lower half of a Femur surrounded by an osteo-sarcoma. The whole circumference of the shaft, between the periosteum and its walls, is enveloped by the malignant growth, which, in a layer from half an inch to nearly two inches in thickness, forms a large firm tumour of elongated oval shape. The greater part of the tumour is almost pure white, very firm, and compact; but in the parts nearer to the bone, it is extensively osseous, and the greater part of the osseous tissue of the growth appears to have extended into it from the surface of the shaft on which it rests. To the same extent in which the femur is thus surrounded with the growth, its medullary canal is filled with hard, white, and finely porous bone, formed, apparently, by the almost complete ossification of the new growth. Between the lamina? of the walls, also, a similar substance exists, separating them; and at the lower part so altering them, that the morbid structures around and within the shaft are combined in a continuous mass. The epiphysis is healthy. i. 295 The microscopic structure of the soft parts of the tumour is that of a spindle-celled sarcoma. The osseous substance was true bone with well-formed lacunuc. The patient was a girl 12 years old. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 39 ; and a drawing, a. 13. 482. The other portion of the same Femur, macerated and dried. It shows more perfectly the character of the finely porous, hard, but very friable bone formed in the new growth. I. 296 Vide also No. 517 et seq., p. 75. MELANOTIC TUMOURS. 483. Sections of Lumbar Vertebra) with Melanotic matter deposited in the can- cellous texture of their bodies. r ^qQ 484. Sections of a Rib with Melanotic matter deposited in its interior. i. 191