305 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE INTESTINES. the adjacent mucous membrane, which, except in being rather thickened, appears to have preserved its natural textnre. xvi. / 5 It is probable, as well from the history of the case as from the characters of the specimen, that these ulcers were formed by the separation of sloughs of Peyer's glands, in the course of enteric fever, and were in progress of healing. 2003. Portion of an Ileum, from a case of enteric fever. Three patches of Peyer's glands are enlarged, and small portions have separated by sloughing from their centres. There is also a general enlargement of the solitary glands, which project like little conical papules from the surface of the mucous mem- brane, xvi. 88 2004. Portion of a Colon, in which there are several small ulcers of the raucous membrane, remaining after the separation of sloughs in a case of enteric fever. The bases of the ulcers are formed by the circular muscular coat of the in- testine, which appears healthy; their margins are formed by thin portions of raucous membrane overhanging their bases. The intervening mucous mem- brane and other tissues appear healthy. xvi. 89 2005. Portions of an Ileum, in which two small ulcers, like those last described, have nearly healed. The muscular coat cannot be seen at their bases, and their margins, which probably were overhanging but have united to their bases, are smooth and shelving. xvi. 90 2006. Another portion of the same Ileum, in which are several similarly healed small ulcers, and one of larger size, in which a further process of ulceration has extended from the middle of the base of the ulcer in the mucous membrane, through the muscular and peritoneal coats, forming an elongated oval opening by which the intestine communicated with the cavity of the abdomen, xvi. 91 The four preceding specimens, and No. 1990, were taken from patients who died with enteric fever at Vienna. Presented by Charles Moore, Esq. Vide Nos. 2058, 2061, Series XIX. SYPHILITIC ULCERATION. 2007. Extensive Ulcers, almost surrounding a portion of a Colon on its mucous aspect. From a syphilitic patient. 124, Prom the collection of J. E. Parre, Esq., M.D. Vide Nos. 2058, 2061, Series XIX. TUBERCULAR ULCERATION. 2008. Portion of a small Intestine. There are two small superficial ulcers on the mucous surface, and the peritoneum is studded with tubercular nodules of various sizes. Prom a child, aged 3 years, who died with general tuberculosis. Part of the dura mater is preserved in Series XXX, No. 2458.-See Post Mortem Book, vol. <viii, p. 46. 2009. The lower end of an Ileum, with the Csecum and its Appendix Tim mucous membrane is extensively destroyed by tubercular ulceration The chief ulcers in the ileum and caecum are large and oval; those in the cfecura have the.r long axis at right angles to the axis of the canal, and, in some instances nearly encircle it. Mingled with the larger are a few smaller ulcers, which may have originated in the solitary follicles, and are chiefly found in the appendix of the cf cum. The general characters of the ulcers L, that they are circumscribed by an elevated, slightly undulating border, which iust overhangs their bases, and is nowhere everted; and that their bases^re irregularly excavated, and raised in the intervals between the excavations as bv the crowding and coalescence of small ulcers and of intervening Sr"^ xvi. 100