203 PERICARDIUM AND OF THE HEART. a minute aperture at its summit. On the upper and inner wall of the left auricle a patch of thickened endocardium covered by papillary granulations is seen. The aortic valves are much thickened, adherent to each other, and were incompetent. From a woman aged 27 years. There were infarcts in the spleen and kidneys.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. vii, p. 363. 1358. A Heart, showing an aneurism on the inner flap of the mitral valve, pro- jecting towards the auricle. The aortic valve is covered with vegetations and fibrinous deposits. From a woman aged 53 years.—See Post Mortem Book, yol. vii, p. 357. 1359. Portion of an Aorta, exhibiting a large oval mass of fibrin mixed with earthy matter upon each of its semilunar valves. Below and behind one of the valves there is a small circumscribed pouch, into which a piece of glass is intro- duced. It is smoothly lined by a prolongation of the internal lining of the heart. xn. 42 From a girl 18 years old. Presented by P. C. Delagarde, Esq. 1360. Aneurism of the Mitral Valve. The smaller flap of the mitral valve shows on the upper surface a prominence about the size of a horse-bean, due to an aneurismal bulging of the valves. Long vegetations are attached to the free edge. See also St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xi, 1875, "Report from Post Mortem Room." 1361. A cusp of a Mitral Valve. On its ventricular aspect there is a circular opening, leading into a small aneurismal pouch, which projects on the opposite surface of the valve. 1362. A Heart, showing two aneurismal bulgings projecting from the auricular surface of the large flap of the mitral valve; the larger, rather flattened, is situated near the edge of the flap, close to its apex ; the smaller is nearer the centre of the flap. The auricular surface of the small flap is studded with vege- tations. The heart is hypertrophied. From a man aged 37 years, who died of Bright's disease.—See St. Bartholometv's Hospital Reports, vol. xii, p. 243. INJURIES OF THE HEART. ECCHYMOSIS. 1363. A portion of the Left Ventricle of a child, aged 8 years, who was killed suddenly by a heavy cart falling over and crushing him beneath it. Both surfaces of the ventricle are dotted with small patches of ecchymosis. RUPTURE. 1364. A Heart, showing a rupture on the posterior surface of the right auricle, an inch and a half in length, extending upwards from the auriculo-ventricular orifice. There is also a small laceration on the posterior surface of the left ven- tricle, near the apex, which does not penetrate the wall. From a man who was killed by being squeezed between the buffers of two railway trucks None of the ribs were fractured. One of the lungs, also ruptuied, is preserved in Series Xf 1365. Rupture of the Right Ventricle and Auricle. A large rago-ed openino- is seen in the wall of the right ventricle, near the attachment of the pulmonary