DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 222 inch above the angles of the valves. The blood, penetrating between the coats at the torn part, has thence extended and separated the layers of the middle coat through a large portion of the arch and thoracic part of the aorta. Where the coats are thus separated the trunks of the intercostal arteries are torn across close to their origins. The inner coat of the artery appears opaque, and, in the thoracic portion, it is tuberculated by deposits of soft matter beneath its surface. The aortic and mitral valves are slightly opaque. The left ventricle of the heart is dilated and hypertrophied. xni. 110 The patient was a woman about 45 years old. Her pulse was generally strong and full, but she was considered perfectly bealthy. As sbe was carrying two pails of water she suddenly fell down and almost instantly expired. Two pints of blood were found in the pericardium, which had probably escaped through some aperture in the external coat of the aorta, not shown in the preparation. Presented by H. Page, Esq. 1465. The Base of a Heart, with the Arch and Thoracic portions of the Aorta. About half an inch above the valves there is an oblique rent about an inch long, extending through the inner and part of the middle coat of the aorta. The mar- gins of the rent are soft and ragged. The blood passing through it has extended between the layers of the middle coat of the artery through the whole length and the greater portion of the circumference of the aorta, separating them and tearing across the intercostal and other small arteries. Some of the blood, coao-ufated, remains in the channel which it has formed for itself between the coats of the artery. The inner and middle coats of the aorta were soft, succu- lent, and very easily torn in any direction; its internal surface also appears shreddy by the partial detachment of little portions of the inner coat. The aortic valves are healthy, but the heart was generally enlarged. xm. Ill The patient was a gentleman, 45 years old, who was subject to occasional attacks of rheu- matism While suffering with colic he was seized with syncope, which was shortly followed by si«ms of internal hemorrhage, and he died on the fourth day, The pulmonary artery was found to°be compressed by the blood effused in the coats of the aorta. There was abundant soft deposit in the coats of the coronary arteries and the pericardium was full of blood. Presented by Dr. Theophilus Thompson. 1466. The Abdominal Aorta of the same patient, showing the further separation of its coats by the effused blood. The separation extends to the origin of the renal arteries. The inner coat of the artery is more thickened than in the preceding specimen. XIIL 1467. Parts of a Heart and Aorta, exhibiting a transverse rent extending round the whole circumference of the inner and middle coats of the aorta, about half an inch above the valves. The characters of this specimen closely resemble those of No 1464. The torn coats are soft, but in other respects they appear healthy. xm- 113 The patient was a man about 25 years old. He had delicate health, but was not supposed to have any disease of the heart. He was suddenly seized, while walking, with pain m the chest and faintness, and quickly died. • Presented by Dr. Jeailreson. 1468. A Heart and adjacent parts, showing a transverse rent through the inner coats of the aorta about one inch above the semilunar valves: the rent extends, with the exception of one inch, completely around the vessel. The external coat is stripped off to some extent from the inner coats, and blood found its way through a small rent into the cavity of the pericardium, which contained two pints of blood-clot. About one-third of an inch above the large rent in the aorta is a small one about half an inch broad. The aorta was elastic and not atheromatous, but the part torn was extremely thin. Two of the cusps of the aortic valve are so completely adherent as to give the appearance of the existence