201 PLEURA, BRONCHIAL TUBES, AND LUNGS. 1693. Portion of a Lung, exhibiting both the Vesicular and the Sub-pleural forms of Pulmonary Emphysema. In every part there is enlargement of the air-cells. The portions in which this change has taken place in the greatest degree are much paler than the rest of the lung, and are not collapsed. They, therefore, form considerable projections at the edge and on the surface of the lung. In con- sequence of the rupture of some of the enlarged air-cells, air has passed beneath the pleura, and has elevated portions of it in the form of round membranous sacs. xiv. 32 1694. An Emphysematous Lung. 81 From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1694a. Portion of a Lung, on which part of the pleura pulmonalis is distended into a large transparent sac by air effused from ruptured air-cells. 1695. A large Emphysematous Bulla, which comprised one-half of the middle lobe of a lung. The adjoining firm collapsed portion of lung represents the other half of the lobe. There were numerous pleuritic adhesions.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. vii, p. 98. COLLAPSE (and Consequent Induration). 1696. A portion of Lung, indurated and collapsed, and invested by a layer of extremely thickened pleura. xiv. -87 From a patient who Buffered from chronic pleurisy. Vide No. 1688- EFFECTS OP INFLAMMATION". PNEUMONIA. Hepatization and Purulent Infiltration. 1697. Section of the upper lobe of a Lung, the texture of which has been con- solidated and rendered hard, dense, and dry by chronic inflammation. It has retained almost exactly the character which it had in the recent state, and is throughout of a pale, dirty white colour, mottled with numerous spots of black deposit. On its cut surface it presents the appearance of numerous very minute bodies like white seeds or grains, not more than one-sixth or one-eighth of a line in length, which are thickly scattered throughout the consolidated substance ; but the surface of the section has no generally granulated appearance, xiv. 44 From a man, 48 years old. The signs of pneumonia had existed nearly five weeks. 1698. Portion of the left Lung; its two lobes are firmly united by dense fibro- cellular tissue ; its pleural surface is covered with lymph, forming a thin layer above, but becoming thick and tough over the lower lobe. The upper lobe pre- sents a natural appearance ; the lower is solid, of a greyish-white colour, more or less discoloured with a black deposit. The air-cells are filled with a firm exuda- tion in the form of minute granules, which give a rough appearance to the sur- face and determine its colour. X1V From a man who had suffered from symptoms of pneumonia for seven days preceding his death. 5 1699. Section of a Lung, of which the whole of the lower lobe is of a pale but rather bright, yellow colour, from the infiltration of pus. The infiltrated tissue was heavy, but soft and easily broken, and the surface of the section has no dis- tinctly granular aspect. XIy ^ 1700. The lower lobe of a Lung showing grey Hepatization. The section shows the alveoli distended with fibrinous inflammatory products, and blood-vessels occluded with coagula. The pleura is covered by firm fibrinous effusion which is of considerable thickness at the base. The lung was solid and non crepitant. ' It was taken from a man who received a blow on the side j ten days afterwards he died of