SERIES II. DISEASES OF JOINTS. DISEASE PROBABLY BEGINNING IN THE SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. 564. A Hip-Joint, from a young woman, in which, the articular cartilages of the femur and acetabulum have been removed by ulceration, and the exposed sur- faces of the bones are covered by soft granulations, and flakes of lymph. The capsular ligament is thickened, and the head of the femur and the acetabulum appear enlarged. At the anterior and inner part of the capsule, there is a large oval opening with smooth denned margins. This opening was immediately beneath the tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles, in the situation at which the bursa naturally existing beneath that tendon sometimes communicates with the cavity of the hip-joint. IL 58 A large psoas abscess had long existed in this patient: and it seemed probable, that the pus having passed under the tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles, and through the aperture of communication between the bursa and the joint, had excited acute inflammation of the latter. 565. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting the effects of inflammation. The cartilage has been completely separated both from the head of the femur and from the acetabulum, and some shreds and ulcerated remnants of it are loose in the cavity of the joint. The ligamentum teres is destroyed. The exposed bones are superficially but smoothly ulcerated. The cavity of the acetabulum is en- larged by the ulceration of its walls. The capsule is thickened, and its synovial Burface appears swollen, soft, and thinly covered by lymph. II. 14 The patient was a sailor, 40 years old. He awoke one night with intense pain in the hip, which lasted some hours, and then in a less degree continued, till, in a fall, he bruised his hip. After this the pain again became exceedingly severe; and continued, without remission, till he died. 566. A Knee-Joint, showing the earlier stage of disease, commencing in the synovial membrane. The joint was filled with pus and broken down lymph. The synovial membrane is thickened, pulpy, and vascular. The pouch formed by the reflection of the synovial membrane in front of the thigh is enlarged, and the membrane is here lined by flakes and bands of inflammatory material. A vascular fringe of pulpy synovial membrane surrounds and encroaches upon the articular cartilages. The surface of the cartilages is irregular from absorp- tion, as if chiselled, but at no part is the bone exposed. The cartilage covering the left condyle of the femur is removed to show the vessels springing up into it, from the bone beneath. A section has been made through the patella. The bone is vascular; at one point the inner surface of the cartilage is eroded by granulations springing up into it from the bone (sub-chondral caries). The ligaments were almost destroyed. Microscopic examination of the cartilage showed that its cells were proliferating. From a boy aged 13. He stated that his knee had been bad for six months. It was ex- tremely swollen, hot, and painful. The tibia was displaced backwards and outwards.—See Colston Ward Book, vol. t, p. 429. G 2