6<b DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 2487. Portion of Cerebrum, exhibiting an abscess in the upper part of one of its hemispheres, with the dura mater which covered it. The abscess communi- cates with the lateral ventricle by the aperture through which a bristle is passed. The internal surface of the abscess is rough, and that of the ventricle is lined by lymph. Lymph is also deposited upon the dura mater, and there is an ulcerated aperture in it, which communicated with the cavity of the abscess, and through which a bristle is passed. yl 47 The patient, a child, 4 years old, had an extensive scalp-wound of the right side, followed hy suppuration, sloughing, and exposure of the cranium. A month after the injury was received, and while all seemed proceeding favourably, the child was seized with convulsions, which were followed by partial paralysis and insensibility. By the trephine, a small quantity of matter was let out from between the skull and dura mater, but witbout relief 3 and the child died tbree days after the convulsions began. Vide Series L, No. 3232. TUMOURS (and Othee Allied Morbid Growths) IN THE BRAIN. CASEOUS OR TUBERCULAR TUMOURS. 2488. Portions of a young person's Brain, in the substance of which there are several masses of firm, yellowish, caseous matter. One of these masses occupies the greater part of the interior of the tuber annulare. vi. 40 2489. Section of the upper part of one hemisphere of a Cerebrum, exhibiting a large oval mass of caseous matter in its substance and between the mem- branes. A portion of the dura mater has a thick layer of tubercular matter adhering to its inner surface. vi. 48 From the same man as the penis, Series XL, No. 2887. 2490. A Cerebellum, with the Pons and Medulla Oblongata. A large irregularly oval mass of caseous matter is imbedded in the inferior and posterior part of one hemisphere of the cerebellum. A section of the tumour displays the uniform, soft, yellow substance of which it is composed. vi. 50 The patient was 20 years old, and phthisical. Five months before death he began to com- plain of coldness and numbness from the feet to the knees ; this gradually increased, till three weeks later he had almost complete loss of sensation and voluntary motion up to the hips, attended with extreme rigidity and convulsive movements of the muscles of the lower extremities, and of the abdomen, and perhaps also of those of the thorax. The involuntary movements became less, but the loss of sensation more complete, till the patient died. His intellect was unaffected till three days before death. Presented by Thomas Warner, Esq. 2491. A Cerebellum, on the upper surface of which an irregularly oval mass of caseous matter, rather more than an inch in diameter, is deeply imbedded. The mass was connected with the inferior surface of the tentorium cerebelli, and has been in part detached from the cerebellum, to which it was very loosely attached : it presents a few scattered points of softening. vi. 72 From a lad, 18 years old, who had severe pain in the head, with strabismus and impairment of speech. The first two symptoms subsided during the rapid development of tubercular disease in the lungs and small intestines. 2492. A caseous Tumour lying in an indentation on the right side of the medulla oblongata, which is compressed by it. The tumour appears not to be continuous with the substance of the medulla, but is easily separated from its bed. The section of the growth is smooth, homogeneous, and slightly granular; in the recent state it was of a yellowish-white colour. Microscopic Examination.—The tumour consisted of tubercular material, in parts reticular, and containing giant-cells with processes, continuous with the reticulum ; in others cellular, and again in other parts the elements were almost indistinguishable owing to caseous degeneration.