DISEASES AND INJURIES OF MUSCLES, 174 TUMOURS. . , q i i j. j 1174. Sections of a Rectus Femoris Muscle, in which are several large lobulated and circumscribed masses of a soft flocculent medullary substance. mus- cular fasciculi are separated by the morbid growths, but appear of healthy A large medullary tumour from the axilla of the same patient, is preserved in Series L, No. 3334. ENTOZOA. . c 1175. Portions of a Longissimus Dorsi Muscle, in which are specimens of the Cysticercus Cellules*. The cysts are placed in the cellular ^\co^c^^ mnscular fasciculi. In the upper portion of the muscle ^l^tJvSZ which the cysticerci lying loose in the bottle were removed; m the lower portion the cysticercus is attached to the interior of its cyst. These specimens we taken from the hody of an old man, in many of whose voluntary muscles similar entozoa existed. 1176. Portions of Muscle and Liver, from a Pig, in which are numerous cysts like those in the preceding specimen, and probably, like them, containing cysticerci. 1176a. The Biceps Muscle of a Man, thickly studded with trichina,. All the muscles were similarly affected. Presented by the Pathological Institute of Leipsic. INJURIES OF MUSCLES. Rupture.-We Nos. 1181 to 1183; also Series IV, Nos. 1036, 1039, 1043. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF TENDONS. DEPOSIT OP URATE OF SODA. 1177 A mass of Urate of Soda removed from around the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum. Its crystals have the ordinary acicnlar form. V. M From the body of an old woman who had long suffered from gout. U78MA^brous Tumour involving, and blending with the tendons of the flexor Lrpi radialis, palmaris longus,&and flexor sublimis. It had existed, slowly Srging, for five years, but had never occasioned the slightest inconvenience^ It was removed, after death, from the right fore-arm of a man who died from acute pneumonia. 1179 A Medullary Cancerons Tumour growing in the substance of the tendon of the rtctus femoris muscle, immediately above the patella. The patella, divided at its centre, is seen beneath the tumour. A woman 31 years old, presented herself at the Hospital with a tumour'larger than a hen's t ^r™iinV either upon, or as it seemed more probable, m the substance of the patella Ifd " a!TPShe stated that she first observed it seven years before It had Sffcffwran slowly, but latterly its growth had been rapid. On the operating table, ShSS « fncis^n was ;,Se into it, i/appeLed to be a fibrous tumour of the rectus tendon S fv™ the knee-ioint only by a thin layer of synovial membrane, closely adherent to SfESL ™* it coSdS be extirpated without opening the joint, it and the patella were its surface. As it couiu no i ^ retu m the scai% ^liK ^ed through thl middle of the thigh, but she died of exhaustion. The amputation ^JS^T^B^ " tliat of medullary cancer, and the secondary formation ^SCoS^fidX "brain-matter."-^/^. Bartkolo^s Hospital Reports, vol. iv, p. 180.