289 DISEASES OP THE PERITONEUM, OMENTUM, AND MESENTERY. 1879. Portion of small Intestine, with numerous minute, round, and oval masses of tubercle in the tissue of its peritoneal coat and iu the adjacent part of the mesentery. The portions of the peritoneum between the tubercles appear healthy. xvi. 1 1880. Portion of small Intestine, with thick-set clusters of miliary tubercles in its peritoneal coat. The peritoneum is generally thickened, and many of the convolutions of the intestine are adherent. xvi. 6 1881. Portion of small Intestine, in which, over an ulcer of the mucous mem- brane, tubercular matter is deposited in small masses in the tissue beneath the peritoneum. The lympatics proceeding from this part, and ramifying between the coats of the intestine, are also filled with tubercular matter. xvi. 66 From a man between 20 and 30 years old. He had disease of the hip-joint of twelve years' standing, and extensive tubercular disease of the small intestines and several other organs. 1882. Portion of a Stomach, with several small oval masses of tubercular matter deposited beneath its peritoneal coat. A section has been made through one of them. xv. 21 Prom a lad who died with tubercles in his lungs and in many other organs. 1883. Portions of small Intestine, firmly united by thick layers of organized lymph, in which, as well as in the coats of the intestines, there is abundant formation of tubercular matter. xvi. 58 Presented by S. Or. Lawrance, Esq. MORBID GROWTHS, &c. FATTY TUMOTJES. 1884. A Tumour growing from the Mesentery close to the Ileo-csecal valve. Half of the tumour has been removed. Microscopical examination showed it to be a fatty tumour, with a great excess of connective tissue. xvi. 144 The patient was a boy 14 years old. He had suffered from attacks of severe colic for two years before death; the attacks became more and more severe, and of longer duration the last attack before the fatal one lasting five weeks. The fatal attack began twenty-two days before death, and had all the characters of ileus, with visible movements of the intestines fsecal vomiting, and constipation. At the post mortem examination the tumour was found compressing the lowest part of the small intestine. The kidneys were in their natural position and, excepting the ileus and its accompaniments, the body was perfectly healthy. ' Presented by Dr. Burd, of Shrewsbury. 1885. Portion of large Intestine. A small, oval, fibrous tumour, attached to its surface by a narrow pedicle, was thus suspended in the sac of the peritoneum. CANCER. XVL 101 1886. A portion of Omentum, the surface of which is very irregular from the projection of numerous nodules and granulations ; and its substance is thickened by infiltration with a soft white New-Growth. Microscopic Examination-It consisted of round nucleated cells, not resembling epithelium crowded together on the surface with no apparent intercellular substance, and infiltrating the subs-tance or the omentum. "« From a woman aged 55 years, who was admitted to the Hospital with jaundice of six weeks duration, and occasional vomiting , she had suffered for eight or nine months from pa n in the right side of the.abdomen A hard, irregular, tender mass was felt in the ih hvpo ehondrium, separated by a patch of resonance from the liver. Tins was found8 on nost mortem examination, to be the enlarged omentum. The parietal layer of pentoneum everv where was covered wxth nodules and granulations of new-growth similar to that in the omentum, and the disease extended through the diaphragm The liver contained large and small masses of white soft new-growth, and the lumbar and mesenteric g ands were infiltrated, but no other organs were affected. The rib and iHum w£« markedly soitened throughout, and by microscopic examination the cancellous tSSTrftE ribs was found to have almost entirely disappeared. texture ot the