DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. 396 2612. Section of an Eye, which is occupied by a hollow sphere of bone. On the outer surface of this the choroid is still visible; on the inner surface are the flocculent remains of the retina and vitreous humour. ix. 10 2613. A small Eye, containing a complete cup of bone, which lies between the choroid and the retina ; the latter is detached. The lip of the cup is at the ciliary region. Removed from a woman, aged 24 years. The eye became inflamed after vaccination, when she was about two years old, and the sight was destroyed. She stated that there had always been some pain in the eye, but during the last month she had suffered severe pain in the corresponding temporal region; at the same time the opposite eye had become painful and gradually weaker.—See Ophthalmic Ward Book, May, 1880. 2614. An Eye, which had been blind many years, the result of an injury, and which had become the seat of intense neuralgic pain. Removed from a man of middle age. The entire globe was much shrunken. The sclerotic was the only coat which retained a natural appearance. The entire contents of the globe have become massed together into a solid ball of earthy and bone-like material. Ai'ound the front of this the remains of the ciliary processes are still apparent. 2615. A degenerated Eyeball, removed on account of sympathetic inflammation in the other eye. The sclerotic has been reflected. The lens is white and of a chalky hardness. Immediately around the entrance of the optic nerve, which is small, there is a plate of bone-like material. Vide Nos. 2595, 2654. CHOROIDAL. HAEMORRHAGE. 2616. The two halves of an Eye, showing extensive effusion of blood between the choroid and sclerotic coats. 2617. Specimen showing hemorrhage into the vitreous, and consequent disloca- tion of the lens into the anterior chamber. The patient was a woman, aged 26. Sclerotomy was performed to relieve tension, the eye being partially disorganised and presenting a well-marked ciliary staphyloma. After tbe operation, increasing pain in the eye necessitated excision on the fifth day. 2618. Intra-ocular Haemorrhage, with detachment of the retina and thinning of the sclerotic, the consequence of choroiditis and progressive myopia. 2619. Intra-occular Haemorrhage. The eye is filled with firm blood-clot divided into two unequal portions by the detached retina. The blood seems to have been poured out between the sclerotic and choroid, as the result of injury. 2620. An Eye, which is filled by a laminated blood-clot. The clot protrudes in a button-like form through the ulcerated cornea. Removed from a woman, aged 61. It was the seat of chronic glaucoma, for which iridec- tomy was performed. The cornea ulcerated, and the protruding blood-clot gave rise to the suspicion of the existence of an intra-ocular tumour. 2621. Intra-ocular Haemorrhage. The choroid and retina are detached from the sclerotic; no trace either of the vitreous humour or of the lens remains. The space between the coats was filled with firm recent blood-clot, a part of which has been removed. The eye, which had been glaucomatous for some months, was removed from a man, aged 56, on account of sudden increase of size and intense pain.