DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 430 tissue of the gland infiltrated with caseous matter, and which contained pus and detached portions of the gland. The cavity communicates by a wide orifice with the urethra. xxix. 23 The patient was an old man, who had tubercular disease of the lungs, kidneys, testicles, and other organs. He died with inflammation of the bladder. TUMOURS, AND OTHER ALLIED MORBID GROWTHS, IN THE PROSTATE GLAND. 2849. The lower part of a Bladder, with the Prostate Gland, laid open from the front. The right lobe of the prostate gland is enlarged by the growth within it of a tumour, over which its substance and capsule are thinly spread out. The tumour is of regular, roundly-oval shape, measuring about one and a half and two inches in its diameters, closely invested by the gland, yet easily enucleated from it. (A portion of it thus separated is suspended above the bladder.) Its cut surfaces show a very firm, dense texture, like that of a prostate gland, with numerous small cysts. The microscopic structures had the same resemblance to those of a natural prostate gland. The prostatic part of the urethra, is flat- tened by the projection of the tumour, and curved towards the left side. A piece of glass marks a passage made with a catheter through the right lobe of the prostate, by the side of the tumour. The left lobe of the prostate appears to be of natural size. xxix. 24 From a man, 51 years old, who, for two years before his death, had increasing difficulty in passing urine. Complete retention at length ensued, and was relieved with catheters, some or all of which passed through the prostate in the tract indicated in the specimen. After seven days, acute peritonitis, commencing apparently at the bladder, proved quickly fatal. 2850. A Tumour, bisected, which was removed from the interior of a urinary bladder. It was attached just behind the orifice of the urethra, over the middle lobe of the prostate gland, by a band or pedicle, composed of mucous membrane and muscular fibres, and measuring about half an inch in width and one-eighth of an inch in depth and thickness. The tumour (cut from the pedicle) is thinly invested with mucous membrane, like that of the bladder. It is of somewhat oval form, and measures from one and a half to two and a half inches in its several diameters. On its cut surfaces the tumour appears formed of very firm, tough, whitish substance, like that of prostate gland. It is intersected by shining white circling bands of fibres, which divide it into close-packed lobes, and it contains many small round and oval cysts, lined with smooth membrane. The microscopic appearances of the mass were exactly similar to those of the prostate gland, including both gland-structures and well-formed smooth muscular fibres. The tumour may, therefore, be regarded as one of the same kind as the preceding, which having grown from the prostate gland became pedunculated, and projected into the bladder. xxix. 25 The patient, 64 years old, was, for the last four years of his life, unable to pass urine with- out the help of the catheter. The tumour, as first seen after death, was described as "lying loose in the bladder, only connected to it by a pedicle, moving on this like a hinge, and, when pressed forwards, obstructing the orifice of the urethra." Presented by Mr. Wyman. 2851. A polypoid fibrous Tumour, which is attached by a narrow pedicle to the interior of the neck of the bladder. Above is suspended a portion of the tumour removed by section. The coats of the bladder are considerably thickened. xxix. 29 2852. A Bladder, with a uniformly enlarged Prostate Gland. Numerous warty growths of a soft substance are connected with the third lobe of the enlarged