148 INJURIES OF JOINTS, DISLOCATIONS, ETC. 1024. A Scapula and a portion of a Humerus, exhibiting the same con- sequences of dislocation of the head of the humerus as are shown in 1023. . C. o4* (In Case H.) SUB-CLAVICULAR. 1025. A Shoulder-Joint, exhibiting a sub-clavicular dislocation of the humerus, which occurred eighteen months before death. The head of the humerus rests on the anterior surface of the scapula, near the inferior border. The tendons of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, and sub-scapular is muscles are entire. A bristle is passed beneath the tendon of the sub-scapularis, close to its insertion. A bristle is also passed beneath the tendon of the long head of the biceps, which retains its attachment to the edge of the glenoid cavity. Two bristles are passed beneath the circumflex nerve, which has been com- pressed by the dislocated head of the humerus, and is, in consequence, flattened and firmly adherent to the capsule of the joint. nI- 42 The dislocation was followed by permanent paralysis of the deltoid muscle. SUB-SPINOUS. 1026. A Shoulder-Joint, exhibiting an incomplete dislocation of the Humerus back- wards. The head of the humerus, unaltered in form, rests against the posterior border of the glenoid cavity. The tendons of the supra-spinatus and infra- spinatus muscles are detached from the tuberosity of the humerus, but retain their connection with the capsule. The tendon of the biceps is displaced from its groove in the humerus, but retains its attachment to the glenoid cavity. The tendons of the teres minor and sub-scapularis retain their attachments to the humerus. The capsule of the joint is thickened. nr. 53 1027. A Humerus and Scapula, exhibiting dislocation which occurred a consider- able time before death. The head of the humerus was displaced upwards and backwards upon the dorsum of the scapula. Its anterior margin rested against the inferior surface and the outer edge of the spine of the scapula, in which situa- tion a hollow and partially polished surface has been formed in adaptation to it. The neck of the humerus having moved upon and across the inferior half of the glenoid cavity and the adjacent part of the lower border of the scapula, their opposite surfaces are here accurately adapted and highly polished : the surface of the scapula at this part is broad and convex, while that of the humerus is deeply hollowed out. The lower part of the glenoid cavity has disappeared, being comprised in the new joint formed with the neck of the humerus. The head of the humerus is altered in its form by the irregular deposit of bone on its surface : the upper half of the glenoid cavity is also flattened and nodulated. A fracture through the middle of the shaft of the humerus has been firmly united, but with an angle directed outwards. c- '9 For a cast of this shoulder, before the removal of the soft parts, see No. 39. (In Case H.) DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. RADIUS AND ULNA BACKWARDS. 1028. An Elbow-Joint, exhibiting a dislocation of the Eadius and Ulna backwards, which occurred a considerable time before death. The articular surface of the humerus was completely covered by a newly-formed capsule, the cavity of which is laid open in front. The head of the radius and the articular surface of the ulna are also inclosed in new capsules, separated from each other and from that which incloses the articular end of the humerus. The sigmoid cavity