DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 372 2451. Portion of a Brain with its Membranes, exhibiting the same changes as the preceding specimen. The new membrane extends for some inches over the right hemisphere of the cerebrnm ; it adheres firmly to the internal snrface of the dura mater, and appears vascular. TI- 2 The patieut had suffered for many years with disease of the urinary organs. He died with fever attended by pain in the head and delirium. 2452. A Specimen of the same disease as Nos. 2450 and 2451. The new mem- brane is here very thick and compact, and has the same rusty colour as No. 2450 ; it has been partially separated from 4,he dura mater, to which it was firmly adherent. VI- ** Vide Series L, No. 3377. ATROPHY OF PORTIONS OF THE BRAIN—Vide Nos. 2551, 2552, 3218. EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION (MENINGITIS). EFFUSION OF IiYMPH AND THICKENING, &c. 2453. Portion of Dura Mater, with recent deposits of lymph upon both its surfaces. YL * 2454. Portion of Dura Mater, thickened and indurated, with deposit of lymph upon its internal surface. The dura mater is from a line to a line and a half in thickness, and has a tough laminated texture. VI. 5 2455. Portions of Dura Mater and Pia Mater. Blood and lymph are copiously effused upon the external surface of the dura mater. The pia mater is thickened, opaque, and indurated, both in that part which covers the external surface of the brain and in that which penetrates between the convolutions. vi. 4 These changes were consequent on external injury. 2456. A portion of Dura Mater, of which all that part which covered the upper surface of the left cerebral hemisphere was thickened. In some situations it is nearly half an inch thick, and its substance throughout is hard and tough, and appears irregularly laminated. VI- 63 From a man who, eleTen years before death, had a violent blow, by which it was supposed that bis skull was fractured. The same patient's skull is in Series I, No. 78, his eye in Series XXXIII, Nos. 2575 and 2625, and his heart in Series VII, No. 1292. SLOUGHING. 2457. Portion of Dura Mater. About its centre is a considerable portion, soft and flocculent on the surface next to the bone. When recent, it was of a brownish colour, the discoloration extending through to its arachnoid surface. At two points perforations existed. The whole of the discoloured part seemed to be in a sloughing condition. The petrous bone, subjacent to this portion of dura mater, was carious, and the tympanum was full of pus. The arachnoid was slightly inflamed. The brain presented a natural appearance. vi. 78 From a case of scarlet fever. ^ ^ * * # %t # TUBERCLE. 2458. Portion of a Parietal Bone, showing a papillated growth about the size of a shilling, springing from the inner surface of the dura mater. The opposite surface of the brain was infiltrated with tubercles. The growth consisted of tubercle, containing well-marked giant cells. From a child, aged 3 years, who died with general tuberculosis ; the brain, with the excep- tion of the portion described, was not affected. A portion of the intestine is preserved in Series XVIII, No. 2008.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. viii, p. 46. A microscopic section is preserved, No. 97.