GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 503 pressure, a whitish, turbid fluid, containing cancer-cells with characters inter- mediate between those of medullary and of epithelial cancer. x**v. The patient was a woman between 50 and 60 years old. This disease Jl^^J^SS!! about eighteen months. Her whole body was covered with small Ped^u^'ZTsoZ growths fMolluscum simplex), and the skin of the.nates was, onboth sides to form a great cushion-like mass. The affection of the skin had existed about _'^J^8' but of late years had scarcely increased. The smaller cancerous masses, shown in the specimen, had their origin, the patient believed, in some of the molluscous growths; not so the laige mass. She recovered from the operation of removing the disease. nMnm„. Drawings Nos. 471 and 583 show the appearances, during life, of both the cancerous disease and the molluscum. 3332. Section of a Tumour and of the part of the abdominal walls in which it grew. The tumour, of nearly spherical shape, is seated m the thick layer■ ot subcutaneous fat, with the skin stretched, thinned, and superficially ulcerated over it. It is perfectly circumscribed, and is composed of a pale, soft, cancerous substance, in which are numerous smoothly-lined cysts that contained blood or blood-coloured fluid. The tumour is from two and a half to three inches m diameter; the cysts from one to four lines in diameter. xxxv. 100 The patient was 62 years old. The tumour had been about five months in progress, and its growth had commenced about four months after the removal of two tumours from the same part. These tumours had been growing for seven months, and made up a larger mass than this. Seven months after the second operation another tumour, apparently ot the same kind, began its growth in the scar. The microscopic structures of the tumour had the characters of medullary cancer. 3333. Section of a Great Toe, and of a Tumour closely surrounding, but not apparently springing from, the last phalanx. The tumour forms a large, irre- gularly oval mass, of which the greater part of the surface, exposed by ulcera- tion of the integuments, is covered by coarse wart-like granulations, and a thin layer of either greyish lymph or slough. Except at its surface, which is rather softer, the whole tumour consists of a firm, rough, elastic substance of uniform close texture, pink and white, vascular. Most parts of the tumour, also, have an obscurely fibrous appearance, as if fibres radiated from its base towards its surface. The margins of the portion of the tumour which is exposed and ulcerated are sinuous, and overhang the skin through which it protrudes ; while the skin itself is thickened, everted, and closely adapted to the margins of the protrusion. xxxv. 54 The patient was a man 43 years old. The disease commenced four years before the removal of the foot, when the toe-nail spontaneously fell off. Successive desquamations of cuticle from the bed of the nail, with ichorous discharge, occurred for a year and a half, when ulceration commenced, and the growth of the tumour soon followed. In the later periods of disease pro- fuse hemorrhages repeatedly took place from the tumour. After amputation of the foot the patient recovered. The other half of the tumour is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Presented by Eobert Ceely, Esq. 3334. Section of a large, soft, and brain-like Medullary Cancer, removed, after death, from a man's axilla. Part of it is connected with the great pectoral muscle. XXXV. 104 The patient was a man 37 years old, and this was the only tumour found in his body after death. In the nine months preceding his death, many tumours, most probably of the same nature as this, and some of them of very large size, were removed from parts of the trunk, neck, and right arm, by absorption, sloughing, or suppuration. A month before his death he was capable of active work, and the tumour here shown was very small. The history of the case is detailed in Sir Paget's " Lectures on L'athology," Third Edition, p. 692. The characters of the tumour when recent arc shown in a chawing, .No. 5S3. 3335. A mass of Medullary Carcinoma, removed from the right iliac fossa, where it projected into the sac of the peritoneum. It is covered by a delicate trans- parent membrane resembling a serous structure—easily detached from the sub-