DISEASES OF BONES. 40 and coccyx are sharply curved forward, and the bones of the latter are firmly anchylosed together and to the sacrum. The anteroposterior diameter of the brim is 3| inches, the oblique 4£ inches, the antero-posterior at the outlet 3 j inches, the inter-spinous 2£ inches. From a woman aged 32, on whom Caesarian section was performed.—See Martha Ward Book, vol. iii, p. 153. (In Case E.) 292. A similar Specimen. (In Case E.) 293. Section of a Femur affected with Mollifies Ossium. The walls of the bone are very thin, and their substance so soft as to be readily divided by a knife. The osseous lamellae and filaments are removed from the cancellous texture; and the medullary cavity and all the cells of the cancellous texture are filled by a fatty substance, which is now, after maceration and the action of alcohol, of the consistence of lard. l- This specimen was taken from the same patient as No. 289. 294. Section of a Femur affected with Mollifies Ossium. The walls of the bone are thin, soft, and flexible, and their lamellae are partially separated. The place of its medullary and cancellous tissue is occupied by soft, jelly-like, transparent fat, of various shades of yellow and pink : some of it was deep crimson. A similar kind of fat appeared to be diffused through the proper texture of the walls. Scarcely any of the osseous part of the medullary texture remains, except a thin layer beneath the articular surface of the bone. The periosteum and articular cartilages are healthy. l- 233 295. Sections of the Upper Part of the same Femur, and of the Patella of the same patient, macerated. The fat diffused through tbeir whole tissue is con- verted into adipocire. The neck of the femur is a little less oblique than is natural, but it is not shortened, nor is the shape of the head altered. i. 234 From a lady 30 years old. The disease had been some years in progress, and had affected in various degrees all the bones of the extremities. This femur had been fractured by a slight force shortly before death. Presented by R. W. Tampliu, Esq. SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF BONES* OSTEOPLASTIC OSTITIS AND PERIOSTITIS. 296. A Skull-Cap, considerably thickened and heavy. On the inner surface of the frontal bone the median ridge is enlarged by new formation of bone, and on either side of it there is a rough depressed patch. From a man aged 39 years, who died of pucumonia. There were nodes on both the tibiae, and a large pigmented scar on the left shin.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. viii, p. 44. (In Case F.) 297. Portion of the base of a Skull. On the inner surface of the temporal bone there is a patch 2 inches by f inch covered by an irregular deposit of bone. There were similar but smaller deposits on the upper surface of the orbital plate of the frontal bone. From a man aged 26 years, who died of cerebral meningitis. There was a distinct syphilitic scar on the penis, but no other evidence of constitutional syphilis.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. viii, p. 18. (In Case F.) * The absence of history renders the syphilitic nature of some of the following specimens doubtful, but they have been placed in this group because the appearances or other evidence point to a syphilitic origin.