DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 231 and the cluster of branches arising from the first portion of the subclavian. For a short distance both above and below the aneurism, the coats or the artery are thickened, and soft, probably fatty matter is deposited m them ; but beyond these portions the arterial wall appears healthy. xin. bo" 1514. A large aneurism of the left Subclavian Artery. From a man, aged 50 years. It burst into the bronchus of the left lung, and into the left pleura. Hemoptysis occurred at frequent intervals during three or four days preceding deatn. 1515. An Aneurism of the right Axillary Artery. A silk ligature is seen on the third part of the subclavian artery. The wall of the aneurismal sac is lined by partially decolorised firm fibrin; the centre with softer blood-clot. The artery between the ligature and the sac is also filled with clot. From a man, aged 32 years, who died of pysemia twenty days after ligature of the subclavian artery. The lower parts of the jugular, subcla vian, and axillary veins were filled with blood clots.—See Pathological Society's Transactions, 1872, p. 74. A drawing is preserved, No. 106. Fide Nos. 1452, 1547, 1549. CEREBRAL ARTERIES. 1516. Portion of a Cerebrum, with an aneurism of the middle cerebral artery about au inch from its origin. The sac of the aneurism is filled by dark, firm, lami- nated coagulum ; its walls apparently consist, in the greater part of their extent, of the dilated coats of the artery. The arteries with which the aneurism is con- nected are larger and thicker than is natural. VI. 44 The patient was a man, aged 45 years. About two years before his death, he had an apoplectic attack. After this he had several slighter attacks, and was hemiplegic, though gradually recovering, to the time of his last illness; in which illness he had obscure signs of gastric disease, then became drowsy, and at last insensible, and died in a state of great exhaus- tion. The vertebral artery, after death, was found irregularly enlarged into pouches. The canal of the middle cerebral artery was pervious, the aneurismal dilatation affecting chiefly the inferior portion of its walls. 1517. Two middle Cerebral Arteries, from the same patient. The trunk of that of the right side is partially dilated into a small bilobed aneurismal sac, which is nearly filled by a coagulum of pale fibrin. The trunk of the left artery is ruptured at a point nearly corresponding to that from which the aneurism has arisen on the right side. The rupture, into which a bristle is passed, extends through all the coats of the artery, and in an irregular line round more than half its wall. There are several small deposits of fatty substance in the walls of the arteries. VI. 59 From a woman, aged 84 years, who died twenty-two hours after an attack of apoplexy. A copious effusion of blood had taken place from the ruptured artery, into the substance and membranes of the base of the brain. 1518. A left middle Cerebral Artery, with a small aneurism on one side of its trunk. The aneurism lay very deep in the fissura Sylvii, nearly imbedded in the adjacent cerebral convolutions, and it burst into the substance of the brain by the irregular rent which is indicated by a bristle. A part of its cavity is filled by a firm decolorised layer of coagulated blood. vi. 67 1519. A Clot of Blood, weighing between four and five ounces, which was effused from the aneurism last described into the substance of the left hemisphere of the cerebrum. Vi. 68 The patient was a footman, aged 38 years. He had suffered from occasional giddiness, ring- ing in the ears, and other slight signs of disease of the brain ; and had enlargement, with disease of the valves of the heart; but he had been engaged in his work till the clay before his