338 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LIVER. 2233. Part of a Liver, with half of a large Hydatid Cyst, which occupied the superior surface of the right lobe. Its wall is tough, and in places has degenerated into a calcareous mass. Its interior is occupied by the remains ot many hydatids, whose walls, contracted and shrivelled, are recognised by the tortuous lines and fissures seen on the surface of the section. The remaining contents of the original cyst, as well as those of the contained hydatids, are converted into a pultaceous, putty-like substance, filling the interstices between the remains of the cyst wall. From the body of a man brought in for dissection. 2234. A Cyst of irregularly lobed form, the walls of which are almost entirely composed of a substance like bone. It was taken from a liver, in which were many others of the same kind. Presented by Dr. Thomas Illott. 2235. Part of a Cyst, which was connected with a liver, and the cavity of which, after suppuration, opened by a fistulous canal through the wall of the abdomen. The walls of the cyst are from one to three quarters of an inch m thickness, very tough and fibrous; its interior is rough and nodular with a projecting, irregularly-shaped mass of bone-like substance, which could be felt trough the canal in the abdominal walls. The patient was an elderly gentleman, and the disease Vas of many years' duration. 2236. Portion of the Liver of a Cow, in which are numerous hydatids, con- tained in distinct cysts of various size and shape. ^in. 66 2237. A Cyst, probably hydatid, in the liver of a pig. 211 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. FLUKES IN THE LIVER. 2238. A portion of a human Liver, containing flukes (Distoma Tiepahcum). Taken from the body of a countryman. Presented by Mr. Messum. MISCELLANEOUS. . 2239. Section of a Horse's Liver, dried. Its substance is nearly filled by deposits, in granules and minute nodules of a substance consisting principally of carbonate and phosphate of lime, with animal matter. xvm. 6L The lungs were similarly diseased. INJURIES OF THE LIVER. 2240. Portion of the Liver of a child, deeply and extensively lacerated by a blow upon the abdomen. xviii. 2241. Portion of a Liver, the anterior border of which was punctured by a trocar On the convex surface of the liver the wound is completely closed by coagulable lymph: on the concave surface it is still partially open, and presents uneven, as if torn, edges. xXm- 25 The wound was made a fortnight before death in puncturing a cyst connected with the pelvis of the kidney. No ill consequences were apparent.