INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 115 790. Section of a Clavicle, in which an oblique fracture through the middle of the shaft, has been exactly united. °- (In Case II.) 791. Section of a Humerus, in which a fracture of the shaft at the attachment of the deltoid muscle has been exactly united, so that both the walls and the cancellous tissue are uninterruptedly continuous; and, except by a slight devia- tion of its axis, and a small external deposit of new bone, the situation of the fracture could hardly be discerned. ni- 104 792. An Ulna, in which a fracture through the middle of its shaft has been exactly united, but with a small sharp process of bone growing from its outer side. c. 81 (In Case H.) 793. Sections of the upper part of a Femur, from a man aged 82, who was believed to have received a fracture of the neck of this bone two years before death. Presented by Walter Jones, Esq. " The history of the case is clearly that of fracture of the neck of the Femur; the appearances of the bone show that there has been a fracture which has re- united by an osseous medium; and the direction of the fracture is such as, in my opinion, can permit of no doubt that it was confined to the portion of the neck of the bone covered by synovial membrane ; consequently that it was wholly within the capsule. The fracture extends through the base of the head of the bone in the line of its junction with the neck. As in other cases of the same kind, great part of the neck of the bone has disappeared, and in consequence the head is proportionately nearer to the trochanter major and shaft of the bone; its re-union has in fact taken place, in part to the remaining portion of the neck, and in part to the shaft. This union is certainly osseous. In addition to the first maceration of the bone with its surrounding soft parts, it was subsequently immersed for several days in a strong solution of carbonate of potash; and one- half of the bone has been boiled in water for three hours without the slightest yielding perceptible in the line of the fracture." ill. 107 Description of the specimen by Mr. Stanley, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxiv, p. 13. London, 1841. 794. Sections of the upper part of a Femur, in which a fracture of the neck external to the capsule has been exactly united by bone. Presented by Mr. Hester. 795. A Patella which has been fractured transversely, near the attachment of the ligamentum patellae. A part of the line of fracture still remains open; but in another, and smaller part, the two portions are smoothly united by firm and healthy bone. ni. 105 796. A Fracture of a right Tibia at the junction of the upper with the lower two-thirds, showing the process of repair, with displacement of the bones. The upper fragment is displaced inwards and slightly forwards, and the ano-le between the fragments on the posterior surface is filled up by callus, but there is as yet no direct union between the fractured surfaces. The medullary canal of the lower fragment is filled with granulation tissue, which was undergoing ossification. From a man, aged 62 years, who died of bronchitis twenty days after sustaining a fracture of the leg by a fall of twenty feet. The fracture was treated by splints and a weight.—See Rahere Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 7. 797. Sections of a Femur, in which there has been an oblique fracture of the shaft extending from an inch below the trochanter minor. The fractured ends overlap considerably, the lower fragment being drawn upwards in front of the upper. I 2