139 INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). is an accumulation of bone on the posterior surface of the neck, in a lino corre- sponding with the direction of the presumed fracture. ni. Zl 965. Sections of the Head and Neck of the other Femur of the same woman They present the same appearances as those last described, but the line ot abrous tissue is here uninterrupted, while in the preceding it is m some places interrupted by small portions in which the osseous tissue is continuous, as if the fracture had in them united by bone. m- 2* The preparations were taken from a body supplied for dissection, of which no history could be obtained. For drawings of this and the preceding specimen, see Nos. 49, 50, 51. 966. Portions of a Femur, in which there appears to have been a fracture extend- ing vertically through the base of the neck. The fracture has been completely repaired, but with such a displacement of the head and neck that they form a rio-ht ano-le with the shaft, and are depressed below the summit of the trochanter major. °- yD (In Case H.) * Presented by H. B. Oakes, Esq. 967. Portion of a Femur, in which a fracture is believed to have occurred, many years before death, through the base of its neck. The fracture (if one happened) has been completely repaired, for its direction is not indicated by any line in the cancellous texture. Like the preceding specimen, the head of the bone is flattened, and there is a deposit of bone around the articular margin. C. 67 (In Case H.) Presented by F. Salmon, Esq. 968. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting a depression and shortening of the neck, with flattening of the head, and formation of bone around the articular margin. c. 78 From an aged person. It was believed, from the circumstances of the case, that the neck of the femur had been fractured in a fall, but there are no indications of a fracture having been united. (In Case H.) Presented by Thomas Warner, Esq. Shaft of Femur. 969. Portion of a Femur, in which a fracture extends almost vertically through the trochanter major and five inches downwards to the front of the shaft. The portions are firmly united, but with considerable interspaces, and with projec- tion of the upper portion forwards. 0. go (In Case H.) 970. A Femur, the shaft of which has been fractured very obliquely, from before backwards and from above downwards, a little below the trochanter minor. The fracture is firmly united, with the upper portion of the bone projecting backwards, behind and to the outer side of the lower portion. C. 70 (In Case H.) 971. Portions of a Femur, in which there has been a fracture through the shaft, a little below the neck, with separation of the trochanter minor. The fracture' which is in almost exactly the same position and direction as that last described' was united by ligamentous substance which separated in maceration. c. 86 The specimen was taken from a man aged 39; the fracture occurred nine months before death. The specimen No. 812 was taken from the same case. (In Case H.) 972. The upper portion of a Femur, which has been separated from the shaft by a fracture. It shows the spiral course, which a fracture sometimes takes