275 NOSE, MOUTH, TONGUE, PALATE, AND FAUCES. tissue of healthy gum. The narrow base by which it was adherent to the jaw contains numerous osseous spicula. Its free surface is covered by healthy mucous membrane. xxxv. 39 TUMOURS OF THE HARD PALATE. 1799. Section of a Tumour removed from the palate, to which it was attached by a base of much less extent than its circumference. Its surface is covered by thick, but apparently healthy, mucous membrane; and its interior presents a lobulated appearance. XXIII. 22 1800. An elongated oval Tumour removed from the palate, to which it appears to have been attached by a broad base. It is composed of a firm, very close- textured, obscurely fibrous substance, with interspersed specks of bone, like the epulis which more commonly grows from the gums. XXIII. 6 DISEASES OF THE SOFT PALATE AND FAUCES. ULCERATION. 1801. The Larynx and adjacent parts removed from a man who died under the following circumstances:—He was a soldier, and was admitted into the Military Hospital with a sloughing ulcer of the throat, but without venereal taint. There was considerable loss of substance, and his condition for many days was most critical. He improved under treatment, and rapidly gained flesh. The ulcer appeared to be healing, and he was considered convalescent. While one day sitting up in the ward his mouth was suddenly filled with blood. He ejected about a pint of bright arterial blood, and died before he could reach his bed. On examination after death, it was found that, although the ulcer on the soft palate and back of the pharynx had healed, a small aperture existed behind the remains of the left tonsil which led downwards into a pouch of elongated form, the lining of which was still ulcerated. At the bottom of this pouch a small clot was found adherent, and by carefully tracing the branches of the external carotid it was found that the superior thyroid artery opened into the cavity, and thus caused fatal haemorrhage. xxiii. 30 TUMOURS OF THE SOFT PALATE. 1802. A small fibrous Tumour removed from the soft palate. 1803. Section of a boy's head with a largely lobed Tumour, apparently of fibro- cellular structure, in the soft palate. xxm 29 The tumour was of slow growth. The patient was suddenly suffocated. A drawing is preserved, No. 189. FOREIGN BODIES IN THE FAUCES. 1804. A set of Artificial Teeth, of which this is a model, slipped into the faiicesv of a man during syncope, or a slight epileptic fit, and remained fixed between the root of the tongue and the epiglottis for fourteen weeks, occasioning great difficulty of deglutition and other distressing symptoms. It was atleno-th extracted. xxiii. 33 The case is described by Sir J. Paget in the Medical Times and Gazette, January 16th, 1862. DISEASES OF THE TONSILS. ULCERATION. 1805. A Tongue, with the soft palate and its arches, exhibiting an enlargement of the right tonsil, with deep and ragged ulceration of its substance, fxm 1 Vide No. 1801. T 2