386 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. b.—From Morbid Growths. 2545. Spinal Cord from the level of tlie seventh cervical to that of the third dorsal vertebra. Medullary cancer involving the muscles of the back made its way- through the arches of the second dorsal, behind the transverse process on the left side, and compressed the cord. The varied diameters of the cord are noted on the side of the preparation. vn- 1^ The case was marked by slowly increasing paralysis of the intercostal muscles and of the lower half of the body. Vide Nos. 2540 and 2541. INJURIES AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES. LACERATION AND EFFUSION OF BLOOD INTO THE CORD. 2546. Section of the cervical portion of a Spinal Cord. Its exterior appears unchano-ed, but in its interior there is an extravasation of blood, with lacera- tion of its grey substance. 1 vn- 11 This injury was produced by a forcible bending forwards of the head. One of the lower cervical vertebrae was fractured and displaced. 2547. Portion of a Spinal Cord, from a case of dislocation and fracture of the spine. The substance of the cord> in two inches of its length and in its whole thickness, is softened, and mixed with blood effused from its vessels. The altered portion of the cord was situated opposite to the injured vertebrae. vu. 3 2548. Portion of a Spinal Cord laid open by an incision to show crushing, with extravasation of blood into its substance produced by a fracture of the fifth cervical vertebra. From a man, who was thrown out of a cart backwards on to his head, and was admitted to the Hospital with a fracture of the upper part of the spine. He died a few hours after the injury.—See Kenton Ward Boole, vol. vi, p. 295. Vide Nos. 1146 and 1160 in Series V. SOFTENING. 2549. The lower extremity of the Spinal Cord of a man, aged 65years, who fell from a height of twelve feet, striking his loins, twenty-four days before death. The injury was followed immediately by paralysis of the sphincter ani, and anaesthesia of the surrounding skin. After an interval of seventeen days there was partial loss of sensation of the lower extremities. The nerves of the cauda equina show no damage, but a portion of the cord, half an inch from the commence- ment of the filum terminate, and about one-third of an inch in length was, through its whole thickness, soft, almost diffluent, and of a brownish yellow colour. Above and below this part the cord was healthy. Vide No. 1157 in Series V. REPAIR AFTER DIVISION. 2550. Part of the Spine and Spinal Cord of a pigeon. The spinal cord was divided transversely, just above the level of the ossa innominata, two months before death. Complete paraplegia was produced by the division of the cord, but in the succeeding two months the healing was nearly completed, and the pigeon regained the power of standing and walking slowly. vn. 13 The division was made by Dr. Brown-Sequard.