99 DISEASES OF JOINTS. 678. The bones of a Hip-Joint. The depth of the acetabulum is increased by absorption of its base, and by ossifioation of the cotyloid ligament. The articular surface of the femur is in part removed by absorption ; and there is a rough, nodulated formation of new bone around the margin of the head and on the neck of the femur. The surfaces of the acetabulum and head of the femur on which absorption has taken place, are rough, hard, and deeply and irregularly perforated, like worm-eaten wood: parts of the remains of their articular surfaces are hardened and polished. B. 7 (In Case G.) 679. The upper portion of the Left Femur and the Acetabulum from a male subject brought to the dissecting rooms. The shape of the articulating surfaces is much altered ; they are flattened, and there is abundant osseous deposit about the head of the femur, and, to a less extent, about the margin of the acetabulum; the result probably of rheumatic disease. B. 61 (In Case G.) 680. Sections of the bones of a Hip-Joint, in which there has been absorption of the upper part of the head of the femur. The surface of the part thus absorbed, as well as that of the acetabulum with which it was in contact, and on which it probably moved freely, are polished, ivory-like, and perforated like those in specimen No. 683. B> 12 (In Case Gr.) 681. The bones of the Hip-Joints of a man aged 71, exhibiting nearly symmetrical changes of structure; the effects of chronic rheumatism. There is an irregular and very abundant deposit of osseous substance around the margins of the acetabula and upon the borders of the heads and necks of the femora. Both the width and the depth of the acetabula are thus greatly increased; their articular surfaces, as well as those of the femora, are hard and rough, and a portion of the head of one femur with the corresponding surface of the aceta- bulum is polished and ivory-like. B 43 (In Case G.) 682. The bones of a Hip-Joint, exhibiting an irregular, nodulated deposit of osseous substance upon the margins of the head of the femur, and of the acetabulum. The artieular surfaces thus enlarged have been deprived of their foratedge' ^ hardened' Polished> and very irregularly and deeply per- 0ra 6 " b. 42 (In Case Gr.) 683. Sections of the bones of a Hip-Joint, in which portions of the articular surfaces of the acetabulum and of the head of the femur have become finely polished and of an ivory-like texture. The polished portions are deeply penetrated by numerous minute irregular canals; and there is abundant for- mation of new bone around the margin of the head and on the neck of the lemur, as well as about the margin of the acetabulum. „ 11 (In Case Gf.) 61finieet0edb0v tt aT™? ? HiP'Joint' in wbi<* depth of the acetabulum surface andt?T f TT?, m^ter ar°Und its m^in' Its Ocular IZi^: a { th,G head 0f the femur' have been absorbed, and the surfaces exposed are hard, perforated, and in a few parts polished. A formation of new bone round the margin of the head of the femur corresponds wi^tha* on the margin of the acetabulum. P tn tnf* (In Case G.) B- 15 11 2