DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. 1(51 ANGULAR CURVATURE. 1095. The upper half of a Spine, in which the bodies of the fifth and sixth cervieal vertebra are completely,and those of the fourth and seventh partially, destroyed by ulceration. The intervertebral fibro-cartilages between these vertebrae, as w ell as those between the first four dorsal vertebra3, are completely destroyed, and the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae are superficially ulcerated. There is an angular curvature in the lower part of the cervical region, and the remains of one of the bodies of the vertebra? project far into the spinal canal. iv. 34 From a child 10 years old. There was a large collection of matter in front of the spine pressing the pleura; inwards. Presented by J. G\ Perry, Esq. 1096. Section of a Spine, exhibiting the process of reparation after extensive disease. Twelve spinous processes are shown in the preparation, but the bodies of only four vertebra?; eight bodies, therefore, have been destroyed. The vertebra? above and below these eight have been approximated, and are firmly united by bone with their remains and with one another. An extremely acute angular curvature is thus produced, but the spinal cord having adapted itself to the alteration in the direction of the spinal canal, has not been compressed. iv. 23 1097. Section of a Spine, with Angular Curvature. The disease is situated in the middle of the dorsal region; large portions of the bodies of two vertebra? have been destroyed by caries. A soft caseous matter is deposited around the diseased bone, and is so abundant in front and at the side of the spine, that it elevates the periosteum of the vertebra? and the pleura costalis in the form of a tumour within the chest. A small piece of bone is separated from the rest by necrosis, and is imbedded in the caseous matter behind the carious vertebra?. The spinal cord for the space of an inch and a half, is compressed in the situa- tion of the curvature. iv. 14- The patient was under the care of Mr. Pott, and had paraplegia and other signs of " Pott's disease " of the spine and spinal cord. It was one of the first cases which showed the benefit of issues in the treatment of the disease; for under their influence the paraplegia and other symptoms were completely removed, and the patient recovered so as to walk with ease. He died with phthisis. 1098. Part of the dorsal portion of a Spine. The anterior half of the body of the seventh dorsal vertebra is almost entirely destroyed by ulceration, and the body of the sixth is deeply ulcerated on its anterior surface. By the approxi- mation and union of the sixth and eighth vertebra?, an angular curvature of the spine has been produced. A small rough process of bone has grown from the most prominent part of the angle into the spinal canal. Opposite to this pro- jection the spinal cord was softened and reduced in size—See Series XXXI Xo. 2544. IV. ^ 1099. Portion of the Spine of a Child, exhibiting the process of cure after caries. The bodies of four of the lower dorsal vertebras are completely destroyed; and the anterior parts of the bodies of the vertebra? which were immediately above and below the situation of the disease, are approximated and firmly united by bone. Together with the angular curvature thus produced, there is some lateral displacement of the bodies of the vertebra?; but, by the separation of the arches of the diseased vertebras, the spinal canal, though changed in form, appears to have retained its natural size. Iy u 1100. Section of a Spine, exhibiting disease in three of the bodies of the lower dorsal vertebra?, which was in progress towards its cure. A large portion of the^ anterior and lower half of the body of one vertebra has been destroyed by caries. The intervertebral substances above and below it have also been removed . M