208 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 1384. A Brachial Artery, in which, just above its bifurcation, a division of the internal and middle coats, as complete and regular as that m specimen No. 1392, was produced by a violent crushing of the arm. The external coat remains entire, and there was no external wound. The upper border ot the internal and middle coats is simply retracted: the lower border is also incurved and had closed the canal of the artery. xm- 1385. A similar specimen; but here the artery, previous to the injury, appears to have been diseased, so that its coats were unnaturally fragile. xnL iZU 1386. A Femoral Artery, the inner and middle coats of which were lacerated in a case of compound fracture. The laceration extends transversely round two- thirds of the artery just above the origin of the profunda. The lower extremity of the artery is closed by a ligature which was placed round it a short time before death, when the limb was amputated for the other injuries sustained in the compound fracture. 1387. Portions of a Popliteal Artery and Vein. The artery was completely torn across by a wheel passing over the limb, and its divided extremities are sepa- rated to a distance of nearly half an inch. They are widely open In the upper part of the artery a coagulum is formed, which almost fills its canity . in the lower part there are only some irregularly sha.ped portions of nbrm.^ ^ FROM THE EFFECTS OF CONTIGUOUS INFLAMMATION. 1388. The arch of an Aorta, with its chief branches, part of the left lung, the larynx, trachea, oesophagus, and other adjacent structures; all _^ ?^OT^ so as to expose the inside of the aorta. The tissues m front of the trachea, and in the upper part of the mediastinum, were condensed around a large collection of pus and blood which extended nearly as low as the root of the left lung as well as far upwards in the neck by the sides of the trachea and larynx. Part of the boundary of the abscess was formed by the distal portion of the arch of the aorta, by the commencement of its thoracic portion, and by the left sub- clavian artery. The extent to which these vessels were m contact with the abscess wall is indicated by a thin layer of lymph on their outer surfaces. Half an inch beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery, at the extremity of the convexity of the arch, an obliquely directed rent, a third of an inch in length, extends right through the coats of the artery and into the cavity of fte ..bsces. The edges of the rent are irregular; it is indicated by a piece of talc. The immediately adjacent, as well as all the other parts of the artery, appe^quite healthy. , ' , The natient was a boy, 8 yeara old. The formation of the atoces. m the npper part of the altrSSum, & the lower and front pa*; ot ^^Eed %%%£S£ culty m breaming, ami nau Bu ,, niinrvnx jnt0 which the abscess opened before ^U\ZTeVcldL7Ay a pint of arterial blood from bis mouth, and, m a few seconds died The X aperture of the abscess was in the wall of the phnrynx, just to the eft of the H^Pit was chcular and three lines in diameter. It seemed probable that the abscess So^nldlopeS^otiuuication with the oesophagus and the right bronchus. No other considerable disease existed. A full history of the case is in the Hospital Reports, vol. ix, p. 73. Vide Nos. 1439 to 1445. EFFECTS OF THE APPLICATION OF LIGATURES TO ARTERIES. TVTVTSION OF THE INNER COATS. iQftQ tw nf thP Aorta of a Dog, exhibiting the effects of a ligature applied ^tL^^^re L^ gThe inner and middle coats of the artery are