DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. 301 paired, and was at length totally lost. After the removal of the gland the eye returned to its normal position, and the patient completely recovered his sight. 2573. Tumour of the Lachrymal Gland, which was removed from the left orbit of a man, aged 28 years. The eye was displaced downwards^ and inwards almost upon the cheek. The tumour had been growing for nine years ; its removal was easily accomplished, as it shelled out from a distinct capsule. Its structure is that of an ordinary cartilaginous tumour, in which some traces of the lachrymal gland are still evident. The small portion seen below was detached during the operation.—See Ophthalmic Ward Booh, Male, vol. ii, p. 430, and Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. xxvi, p. 84. SARCOMA. 2574. A large Tumour, and above it a shrunken and flaccid Eye. The tumour nearly filled the orbit, and a part protruded from it the size of a small egg. No portion of the lachrymal gland could be distinguished from the growth, which was of a uniform structure throughout, composed entirely of small round cells embedded in a scanty matrix—presenting, in short, the characters of a round- celled sarcoma. The tumour measures three inches in length by two in breadth. It was of slow growth, extending from its first recognition over a period of nearly two years. Increasing gradually, it distended the conjunctiva before it, and pressed upon the orbit, the sight gradually declining. Death resulted from exhaustion attendant upon old age. IX. 30 The case is reported by Mr. Savory in the Medical Times and Gazette, vol. xxxv, p. 188. EYELIDS. ATROPHY. 2575. The Eyelids, the remains of the Optic Nerve, and the other contents of the Orbit, from which the eye in No. 2625 was removed. The optic nerve ter- minates by a blunt, but not bulbous extremity, which is firmly adherent to the surrounding tissues. The eyelids, muscles, and all the other parts are atrophied and contracted. ix. 20 SYMBLEPHAEON. 2576. An opacity of the lower segment of the Cornea, due to symblepharon after erysipelas. IX< 34 Three months previously the patient had received a violent blow on the temple, which was followed by erysipelas. Since the accident the function of the eye had been wholly lost. She Buffered from frequent attacks of pain in the orbit, and at length the other eye became painful. The lower lid was adherent to the lower part of the cornea. A careful examination of the eye detected no alteration of structure. TUMOURS OF THE EYELTDS. DERMOID CYSTS. 2577. A Dermoid Cyst, removed entire from beneath the orbicularis muscle of 1 child. CONJUNCTIVA. PTERYGIUM. 2578. The Cornea, part of Sclerotic and Conjunctiva. Extending from th inner canthus to the margin of the cornea is a triangular fold of vascular con nective tissue, known as pterygium. CORNEA. INFLAMMATION AND ITS EFFECTS. 2579. Tbe anterior portion of an Eye with Pus in the anterior chamber see