DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 228 1497. The Arch of an Aorta, the seat of an Aneurism, by which the left Sub- clavian Artery is obliterated. The walls of the sac appear to be formed entirely by the thickened and dilated coats of the artery. At the back ot the preparation is the arteria innominata, with the left carotid artery; in the front and lower part is the left subclavian artery, obliterated at its ongm by fibrin extending from that which lines a part of the aneurismal sac. There is a wide irregular aperture produced by the rupture of the end of the sac. xm. 41 1498. Aneurism of the Aorta with obliteration of the left subclavian and vertebral arteries, and dilatation of the arteria innominata. 54 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1499. The Arch of an Aorta, with a small Aneurism arising from its termination. The aneurism has protruded and burst into the left bronchus. The aorta is generally thickened and dilated. xm- 1500. Portion of the Arch of the Aorta with the commencement of the great vessels, and lower portion of the trachea. An aneurismal pouch communicates by a circular aperture, half an inch in diameter, with the aorta ]ust below the origin of the left carotid and subclavian arteries. The sac has perforated the left side of the trachea about half an inch above the commencement ot the lett bronchus. The orifice is obstructed by a clot. The recurrent laryngeal nerve passes up behind, and is pushed out of its course by the tumour. From a man, aged 33 years. During life the symptoms were referred to the larynx. 1501. Aneurism of the Aorta. It has burst by two fissured rents into the trachea, about one inch above the bifurcation. The interior of the aneurism is filled with irregularly laminated coagulum. The oesophagus is considerably displaced towards the left side, and, between it and the trachea, part ot the aneurismal sac intervenes. x ' From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1502. The Aorta, (Esophagus, and a portion of the Spine. An aneurism springs from the posterior surface of the descending aorta, which has eroded the bodies of the eighth, ninth, and tenth dorsal vertebras. There is a perforation ot the oesophagus, about the size of a sixpence, which is occluded by fibrinous coagulum. From a man, aged 52 years, who died suddenly while at work. 1503. Part of an Aorta, with an aneurism arising from its descending portion. Its walls, extensively diseased, are irregularly dilated. This preparation shows that the aneurism in its origin consists of a dilatation of all the coats. 4y From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. For other specimens, vide Nos. 1337, 1338, 1450, 1451, 1454. ANEURISM OF THE THORACIC AORTA. 1504. Part of an Aorta, with a large Aneurism of the Thoracic Portion. The sac has extended into the bodies of the vertebras, and has burst by a large sloughing aperture into the oesophagus. The coats of the artery are greatly thickened and generally dilated, and its inner coat is tuberculated with opaque, white, elevated patches. xrCL 58 1505. Aneurism of the Aorta as it passes through the diaphragm. A bristle is inserted into the fissure by which it burst into the mediastinum and injected the cellular tissue around the oesophagus. The clots in the mediastinum are supported by the diaphragm. The vertebras formed the back of the sac. ^ From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D.