DISEASES OF BONES. 29 From a boy aged 6, who had suffered from disease of the ankle-joint for ten months. Numerous discharging sinuses communicated with the joint. The disease, which probably commenced in the astragalus, was of idiopathic origin.—Soo Harley Ward Book, vol. ii, p. 185. 221. Sections of a Tibia, of which a portion of the cancellous tissue near its lower end has suffered Necrosis and been separated. The sequestrum lay loose in a cavity lined by thin organized membrane. In one of the sections the half of the sequestrum is retained in its place; in the other, it has been removed to expose the interior of the cavity. The walls of the bone around the cavity are slightly thickened, and there are two ulcerated apertures extending through them: but their texture, as well as that of the periosteum, is nearly healthy. There is also a wide ulcerated aperture through the articular surface of the bone, and nearly the whole of its cartilage is removed. i. 242 From a boy 7 years old, in whom the disease, arising from no evident cause, had existed for some years. Numerous abscesses about the ankle rendered amputation necessary. Presented by Joseph Hodgson, Esq. 222. An Os Calcis. In its posterior third is a considerable cavity lined by a soft, and, when recent, extremely vascular membrane. This cavity communicated by means of a sinus with the sole, and with the inner side of the foot. It contained foetid pus, and the mass of dead bone seen in one-half of the preparation. The bone thus situated was necrosed and separated, but, being impacted at the point where the sinus communicated with the cavity, there w as no evidence, during life, of the completion of its isolation. The membranous lining is perforated at various points by spicuhe of bone, apparently growing from the adjacent osseous tissue, which is dense and indurated. I. 307 The man, aged 22 years, from whom this os calcis was obtained, had suffered for more than four years from symptoms indicative of necrosis of part of this bone. He also had a tubercular affection of the lungs, a combination of circumstances rendering it desirable to amputate the foot. The operation was attended with temporary benefit. Death was occa- sioned by the disease of the lungs nine months afterwards. The case is recorded in the Hospital Reports, yol. xvi, p. 317. 223. Portion of a Tarsus, exhibiting Necrosis of the Os Calcis. The whole of the internal cancellous texture of the bone has perished, and was in process of separation from the thin osseous layer constituting its walls. The necrosis appears to have been the result of osteo-myelitis. j, 104 224. An Os Calcis, of which a portion has been exfoliated after Necrosis. There is anchylosis between the os calcis and os cuboides. T. 109 225. An Os Calcis, in which there was Necrosis of a portion of the cancellous tissue. After the separation of the sequestrum, abscesses formed in and around the bone, and there was abundant deposit of new bone upon its surface. Ulcera- tion also extended through the superior articular surface of the os calcis • and anchylosis between it and the astragalus followed. L £43 in Jf7mi,a Tn 22-jea!i °u' The disease commenced shortly after a rusty nail had been driven into the heel, piercing the bone. The patient recovered after amputation of the foot. 226. A Great Toe with its Metatarsal Bone removed by operation There has been necrosis of a portion of the interior of the metatarsal bone. The seques- trum lies within a cavity which is lined by soft and vascular granulations, and opens externally by fistulous apertures in the skin. The inflammation accom- panying the processes consequent on the necrosis of the metatarsal bone has extended to the first ]0mt of the toe, and completely destroyed the articular cartilages. J 153 S^I^X%tmitim^' °f CanCeU0US ~ 59> 67 fo * «»* n, and