GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 493 It was removed from a woman, aged 44 years, and had been growing feutomjmn ; very rapidly .luring the last three months. The tumour was very hard, but neither adheicnt to the skin nor deeper tissues—See Lucas Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 34. 3288a. An oval Tumour of the Mammary Gland, having a very distinct capsule, Which forms around the tumour a number of intercommunicating cyst cavities filled with soft proliferous nodules. The section shows a softish, somewhat gelatinous, yellowish-white tissue, containing loculi filled by one or more pro- liferous nodules. Microscopic Examination.—The substance of the tumour consists of soft spindle and round- cell sarcoma tissue, intermixed with mucous tissue, and the intra-cystic growths lor the most part of mucous tissue. The growth was removed from a lady, who had previously had two tumours removed from the same situation. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 144. Presented by T. Smith, Esq. FIBRO-MUSCULAR TUMOURS—MYOMATA. TJNSTRIPED FIBRO-MYOMATA. 3289. A Uterus, with a large Fibroid attached to the left side of the fundus. The section shows that it is composed of interlacing bundles of, apparently, fibrous tissue.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. viii, p. 157. 3290. A Uterus, with several large and small Fibroids attached to it, and so completely surrounding it, that the fundus is indistinguishable. The cervix is at the upper part of the specimen, and a portion of glass is inserted into the os uteri. The large fibroid at the lower part of the specimen, through which a section has been made, has undergone calcification, and is of bony consistence. From a patient, who died of intestinal obstruction, produced through strangulation of the intestine by some adhesions between it and the uterine fibroids.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. viii. 3291. A Bladder with the Prostate Gland enlarged and indurated. The chief enlargement is at the sides and anterior part of the gland; but it is irregular, so that the prostatic portion of the urethra is not only flattened, but is also turned from its regular direction by portions of the gland projecting into it. The section shows that the gland is composed of a closely textured tissue, in which small round masses or nodules lie encapsuled. xxix. 2 CALCIFICATION OF FIBRO-MYOMATA. 3292. A portion of a Uterine Fibroid, which has undergone calcification at the circumference, and also to some extent in its interior. 3293. An Oval Tumour, about the size of a hen's egg, composed almost entirely of calcareous matter lying within a soft fleshy substance, and of bony hard- ness. The microscope shows that the fleshy substance is composed of fibrous tissue, within which a considerable amount of involuntary muscular fibre in bands and patches is seen. The tumour was found lying loose in the abdominal cavity of an old woman, brought to the Hospital for dissection. The histological characters suggest, that it was a pedunculated sub-peritoneal fibroid of the uterus which had become detached. STRIPED-MYOMA. 3293a. Section of a Tumour composed of Striped Muscle and round-cell Tissue, removed from the right lumbar region. It is seven inches and a half long, and four inches and a half wide ; of uniform firm consistence and yellowish- white colour; its section presents the appearance of interlacing fasciculi of fibrous tissues, and in places small cysts are cut across. In the upper part of the