186 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE a semilunar form. On the side of the right ventricle, the opening is much smaller and rounded. xn* ^ DILATATION OF ONE OR MORE OF THE CARDIAC CAVITIES. 1255. A Heart, in which the cavities of both Ventricles are enlarged, while their walls are thinner than is natural. The walls of the right ventricle are especially diminished in thickness. The valves on both sides of the heart are healthy. xn. 10 The patient was a man 34 years old. The case is related by Mr. James, in the Medico- Chirurgical Transactions, vol. viii, p. 449. London, 1817. 1256. A Heart, of which both the ventricles are dilated, thin-walled, and pale. The inner surface of the left ventricle, especially at its septum, is mottled with pale-yellowish lines and spots due to fatty degeneration of its fibres. xn. 79 1257. A Heart, exhibiting great enlargement of the cavity of the left ventricle, with some increase of the thickness of its walls. The aortic valves and the internal coat of the aorta are slightly thickened and opaque. xn. 9 1258. Part of a Heart, exhibiting thickening and rigidity of the mitral valve and of its tendinous cords, with extreme contraction of the left auriculo-ventricular opening. The cavity of the left auricle is enlarged; its lining membrane is opaque" and thickened; and a thick layer of dry laminated coagulum is firmly attached to the upper and posterior part of its wall, where it is rather more dilated than elsewhere. xn- 1259. Part of a Heart, exhibiting a great dilatation of the left auricle, with thick- ening of its membranous lining, and with thickening, induration, and contrac- tion of the mitral valve and tendinous cords. Portions of fibrin, arranged in concentric layers, adhere to the thickened membranous lining of a part of the auricle which is more dilated than the rest. XIL 51 The patient was a woman, 41 years old, who had been for some years subject to rheumatism, and had signs of diseased heart for twenty months before her death. Vide No. 1315. PARTIAL DILATATION OF THE CARDIAC WALL, OR ANEURISM OF THE HEART. 1260. Section of a Left Ventricle, with a shallow Aneurismal Pouch at its side. The inner surface of the pouch is smooth, and apparently formed by the lining of the ventricle partially covered by layers of fibrin. The pericardium is adherent to its outer surface. XIL 30 1261. A Heart, exhibiting a pouch formed by dilatation of a circular portion of the anterior wall of the left ventricle near its base. The pouch was filled by laminated coagulum; its mouth is round, narrow, and smooth; and its parietes, apparently, consist of the serous covering and inner membrane of the heart, thickened,'united, and having small deposits of a soft yellowish substance in and around them. The muscular tissue of this part has entirely disap- peared. The coagulum which was within the pouch is at the bottom of the bottle. xn- 53 The patient was a girl 19 years old. The disease of the heart probably commenced about 18 months before death ; but its progress was marked by yarious and singular attacks of paralysis, erysipelas, and signs of phlebitis. 1262. A Heart, with a Sac attached to the left side of its left ventricle. The sac is spheroidal in form, and upwards of three inches in its greater diameter. Its walls are composed of the exterior of the ventricle, the pericardium, and a dense tissue by which the opposite surfaces of the pericardium were adherent. It is lined by irregularly laminated coagula: the phrenic nerve runs over its anterior part; it communicates with the cavity of the ventricle by an oval aperture,