URINARY CALCULI. 533 196. A portion of India-rubber Drainage Tube, about four inches in length, ccvered with Phosphates; it was removed by lateral lithotomy from the bladder of a man, aged 40 years, who, about one year before, had undergone the opera- tion of external urethrotomy. See Rarley Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 17. 197. A Phosphatic Calculus formed upon a portion of a Bougie, which had broken off in the bladder. CALCULI SPONTANEOUSLY BROKEN IN THE BLADDER. 198. Calculi broken into several portions, which were fonnd after death in the bladder of an old man. They had broken spontaneously, and appear to have been parts of several large calculi; the edges of many of the fragments are rounded by mutual friction. They consist of Uric Acid, with a few layers of Urate of Ammonia. The patient was 81 years old, and had suffered for more than a year with signs of stone in the bladder. He would not allow an instrument to be passed, but on two occasions in the nine months previous to his death, he obtained great relief from the use of alkaline medicines. Presented by J. F. Harding, Esq. 199. Fragments of Calcnli, chiefly impure Uric Acid. They were passed from the bladder of an old man, and appear to be portions of one or more calculi broken np spontaneously. Presented by John Gross, Esq. 200. Calculi. Urate of Ammonia and Oxalate of Lime in alternate layers. From the bladder of a boy 10 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Stanley. The smaller portion was found loose in the bladder, and from the smoothness of its surface it may be presumed to have been spontaneously separated a considerable time before the operation, from that part of the larger calculus on which an excavation is now visible. Vide also No. 226. CALCULI FROM THE KIDNEY. 201. A small bright yellow granulated Calcnlus, of Uric Acid. Removed after death from the kidney of a man about 40 years old, who died with an enlarged spleen, and shortly before death had passed a large quantity of Uric Acid with his urine. 202. Three small Calculi passed from the kidney; they are composed of Uric Acid. 203. A Renal Calculus composed of Uric Acid, and weighing 140 grains, taken from the right kidney of a lady, who died of suppurative nephritis. 204. Renal Calculi. Uric Acid with small portions of Oxalate of Lime. Presented by E. A. Lloyd, Esq. 205. Small Renal Calculus about the size of a grain of wheat, which was passed from the urethra of a man, aged 38 years, who came to the Hospital Snrgery with an attack of Renal colic. He had just been doing some heavy pushing work. The pain subsided after a hot bath, and on the fifth day after the colic he passed the calculus with his urine; it caused no uneasiness in passing along the urethra, and would not havo been noticed unless looked for.