70 DISEASES OF BOXES. 485. Portions of a Parietal and a Frontal Bone displaying Melanotic matter deposited in the diploe. In all these specimens the melanotic matter is deposited in circumscribed spots, like so much black pigment, in the bones. It does not form tumours, nor does the tissue of the bone in which it lies appear at all altered. *• 192 The three preceding preparations were taken from a woman, from whom the tumour, No. 3315 in Series L, was removed. CANCERS INVOLVING BONES. EPITHELIAL CANCER. 486. Section of a Leg, exhibiting a soft, vascular, warty growth from its front part. The base of the growth is consolidated with the periosteum, which, for some distance above and below, has become soft and spongy and has its connection with the bone loosened. The bone itself is healthy, except that there has been an irregular ulceration of its external surface. I. 42 487. Portions of the Tibia and Fibula, from the leg last described, more plainly showing the ulceration of their anterior surfaces. L 42a From a woman 35 years old. She received a blow on the shin when 10 years old, which was followed by abscess and discharge of small pieces of bone. The parts healed and remained well for many years ; but again abscess formed, and again healed; and after this had been several times repeated, the growth here shown sprouted out, and, the patient's health failing, the limb was removed. 488. Section of a Tibia, with the soft parts covering it, exhibiting the effects of Epitheliomatous Ulceration. The section was made longitudinally through the middle of the tibia. The other half of the tibia and the fibula are in the next preparation. By viewing the two preparations together, it will be seen that the ulcerative process has extended completely through the body of the tibia, in a great part of its length, and has reached the fibula, as is evinced by the peculiar excavated appearance of its surface. No attempt has been made to restore the lost bone ; there is merely a slight deposit of bony matter upon the surface of the fibula, opposite to that which is in progress of ulceration. The interosseous ligament is in part converted into bone. The integuments around the hollow which has been left by the ulceration are much changed in struc- ture ; they are swollen, and the margins of the hollow are formed by very vascular, coarse, and hard, warty granulations. I. 29 489. Macerated portions of the Tibia and Fibula, referred to in the preceding description. l- 30 They were taken from a man 53 years old. Thirty years before the amputation of the limb, a heavy piece of timber fell on his leg : he recovered from the injury, and was well for twenty * * . • m iii ,1 _ _ i_ 1 ' _ "1- .CH 3 V.— ,,1 j-4 A„ *1. ~ 490. Lower end of a Tibia, invaded by a new growth, probably Epithelioma. The integument covering the bone presents the appearances characteristic of this form of cancer : it is infiltrated, irregularly ulcerated, the base of the ulcer beino- covered by fungous granulations. The ulceration appears to have extended through the skin and exposed the bone, the surface of which has been extensively destroyed, and an oblique fracture passes through it at this point. The lower end of the bone nearly as far as the articular surface is infiltrated throughout by the morbid growth and is of a yellowish-white colour, soft and crumbling. The upper fragment is invaded to a slighter extent. t. 78 The history of the case is unknown.