330 HERNI2E OR PROTRUSIONS, AND OTHER the obliterated omphalo-mesaraic duct, by which the intestine had evidently- been strangulated. XVIL 20 2173. Portion of Small Intestine, around which the persistent remains of the omphalo-mesaraic duct has become twisted. The cord appears to be separated into two portions; one of which twice encircles the intestine, and completely strangulates it. The other end of the cord was adherent to the femoral ring. xvn. 79 The patient, a middle-aged woman, had complete obstruction of the bowels for the last seven days of her life. 2174. Portion of Large Intestine strangulated by the pressure upon its walls of a band of fibrous tissue, laden with fat. From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2175. Portion of Small Intestine and of a Csecum from a boy, aged 15 years, who died of ilius. The small intestines are greatly dilated down to within two feet of the ileo-csecal valve, where the bowel is suddenly narrowed so as to form a ring, which will just admit the tip of the little finger. At this obstruction there is no thickening of the peritoneum; the mucous and muscular coats are completely destroyed by ulceration for a breadth of a quarter of an inch at the narrowed part. Immediately below the constriction (between it and the valve) is a diverticulum about four inches long, the tip of which was adherent to the abdominal wall about two inches below the navel. The calibre of the diverti- culum is equal to that of a swan quill—See Post Mortem Book, vol. ii, January 18, 1872. The intestine was probably constricted by the diverticulum. THROUGH APERTURES IN THE MESENTERY OR OMENTUM. 2176. A portion of Mesentery, having in it a circular aperture, through which a portion of small intestine became strangulated. xvn. 99 From a woman, aged 56 years, who, two days after the removal of her breast for cancer, was attacked with diarrhoea, followed by peritonitis and death. 2177. Coils of Small Intestine. One of these having slipped through an aperture in the omentum, the gut was constricted and strangulated by the margins of the opening. In the upper part of the preparation the intestine retains its natural appearance; in the lower it is of a dark, in the recent condition almost black colour, its walls thickened and oedematous, in fact bordering upon a state of gangrene. Over portions of the serous surface lymph has been effused, most abundantly about the seat of stricture. xvn. 93 The man from wbose body these parts were removed was straining violently when be fancied that something gave way within his abdomen. Suddenly, local pain ensued, rapidly becoming intense, then general peritonitis. On the fourth day he was brought to the Hospital. A few hours after his admission he sank and died. APERTURE IN OMENTUM. 2178. Portion of an Omentum, in which, by the adhesion of two adjacent points of its surface, an aperture or ring is formed, through which the finger might be passed. XVL 92 FOREIGN BODIES IN PROTRUDED INTESTINE. 2179. A portion of Small Intestine. Near its free margin are two ragged openings through which a bristle is passed. From a man, aged 45 years, who died under the following circumstances :—A femoral hernia, which, though 'of long standing, had always been reducible, became strangulated. Its reduction was attempted, but unsuccessfully, both by the patient and by the surgeon. He was then brought into the Hospital, where a further moderate attempt was made with the taxis s but this also failed. In the performance of the usual operation and when, after opening the sac,