DISEASES OF BONES. 462. A Myeloid Sarcoma springing from the upper extremity of the Humerus. The deltoid muscle is reflected, exposing a large, soft, brain-like tumour, which surrounds the head and upper third of the shaft of the humerus. It is covered by a definite capsule. The growth extended forward beneath the pectora l is major on to the wall of the thorax, which it penetrated; it fills the axilla surrounding the large vessels and nerves, and extends backwards into the sub- stance of the teres minor. Occupying its centre is a portion of the shaft of the humerus about one inch long, which is separated from the head above by a considerable interval, and from the lower portion of the shaft by a fracture. The enclosed portion of bone is rough, eroded, and infiltrated. The shoulder- joint is not involved. Microscopic Examination.—The tumour is composed of large roundish or oval cells of the most various size and very irregular shape, with little or no intercellular material. Myeloid cells are thickly scattered in some parts of the tumour. A nucleus is visible in the majority of the cells ; the larger ones are multi-nuclear. A band of immature connective tissue, containing small round nuclei, is here and there cut across. From a man aged 48 years. Sixteen months before his death he became subject to cutting pain in the shoulder ; nine months later a swelling appeared. He gradually lost power of movement in his right hand, the fingers tingled and the right pulse at the wrist was smaller than the left; the forearm was (edematous. Crepitus was felt on moving the upper arm. The supra-clavicular glands were enlarged. Post Mortem.—The tumour was found to have made its way through the wall of the thorax involving the apex of the right lung. Numerous firm secondary deposits were scattered throughout the lungs and liver.—See Luke Ward Book, vol. ix, p. 250. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 30. 463. A large mass of sloughing and bleediag Sarcoma, connected with the bone, axilla, and the adjacent glands, which formed after the removal of the head of the humerus with a myeloid sarcoma about the size of an infant's head, and in most parts encapsuled by a thin layer of bone. This growth consisted of myeloid and spindle cells. The shortening of the humerus in the preparation is due to the above-mentioned removal of its upper third. Its shaft is healthy, and is united to the lower edge of the glenoid cavity by a small ligamentous band permitting of free movement. i. 304 The growth preserved consists of spindle-cells. The parts were obtained from a woman, aged 33, who, six years before her death, was supposed to have sustained a fracture or dislocation of the head of the humerus. To this succeeded permanent loss of motion, and gradual enlargement about the part. This growth was spontaneously arrested during four years. Subsequently resection of the upper part of the humerus, of the tumour, and of some diseased glands was resorted to. The operation was recovered from, but the disease was rapidly reproduced in four different situa- tions. She died four months after the section, from an enormous mass of sloughing and bleeding cancer, connected with the bone, the axilla, and the adjacent glands. Microscopic sections of the growth are preserved, No. 31 ; and a drawing, a. 11. Presented by Mr. J. Hutchinson, by whom the case is fully related in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. viii, p. 346. 464. The Fore Finger of a man which was removed on account of the myeloid tumour, Avbich occupies the first phalanx and is seen in section. It had been growing three years. I, 339 Presented by A. Winkficld, Esq. 465. Section of the lower end of a Femur, in which nearly all the cancel- lous tissue within the condyles and for a short distance up the shaft is removed, and its place occupied by a mass of brain-like medullary substance. The greater part of this substance is nearly white, but there are many spots in it ot a deep red colour, from effused blood—a cyst in process of formation ; and at the upper part is a section of a small cavity which was filled by a soft gelatinous material. The growt h of the mass has expanded the internal condyle and t he posterior part of the femur into a large round sae, of which the walls are F