584 DRAWINGS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. INJURIES OF JOINTS (DISLOCATIONS, &c). 55. A Shoulder-Joint, dissected. A few hours before death the humerus was dis- located beneath the coracoid process, without laceration of the capsule; and the vertical indentation seen on the posterior surface of the head of the humerus was probably produced by the impact of the head against the anterior margin of the glenoid cavity. (T. Godart.) The Specimen is preserved in Series IV, No. 1019. 56. Old dislocation of a Humerus; its head rests on the inner side of the coracoid process. •The Specimen is in Series IV, No. 1020. There is a cast of the same in Series LVI, No. 37. 57. A Hip-Joint dissected after a recent Dislocation of the Femur backwards, with fracture of the posterior margin of the acetabulum and laceration of the obturator externus. (T. Godart.) The Specimen is preserved in Series IV, No. 1036. 58. A Hip-Joint, showing a Dislocation of the Femur upon the body of the Isch ium, with fracture of the posterior margin of the acetabulum. (T. Godart.) The Specimen is preserved in Series IV, No. 1038. 59. A man, who recovered after shooting himself through the head with a pistol. The bullet entered at the right temple, and could be felt beneath the skin of the left temple, where it caused a projection. (T. Godart.) The case is reported by Mr. T. Smith, in the Lancet, 1879. DISEASES, DEFORMITIES, AND INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 60. White Induration (sclerosis) of the substance of two Vertebras, in a case of diseased spine with paraplegia. 61. Sections of Lumbar Vertebrae, the bodies of which are infiltrated with a malignant growth. (T. Godart.) From a man, aged 55 years. 62 to 68. A series of sketches of a specimen in which it is probable that an accidental injury had broken off the arch, with the spinous process, and inferior articular processes, of one of the lumbar vertebras. The separated portion remained movably connected with the rest of the vertebra. Presented by John Jessie, Esq. From a specimen in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, Pathological Series, No. 983. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND BURS^E. 69. Fatty degeneration of the Diaphragm. (T. Godart.) 70. Portion of a Psoas Muscle in a state of suppuration. The lungs and spleen also contained suppurating spots. (T. Godart.) 71. Drawing taken from a case of Progressive Muscular Atrophy. (T. Godart.) 72. Another drawing of the same case. (T. Godart.) 73. Photographs of a similar case.