URINARY CALCULI. 520 Phosphate and Carbonate of Lime ; middle layer chiefly Oxalate of Lime, and nucleus chiefly Uric Acid and Oxalate of Lime, with some Carbonate of Lime. URIC ACID SUCCEEDED BY FOUR OR MORE LAYERS. 56. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus, Uric Acid, surrounded by a thin layer of Oxalate of Lime; around this, Uric Acid nearly pure; the remainder, Uric Acid and Oxalate of Lime in alternate layers. 57. A Vesical Calculus, weighing four ounces, removed by the lateral operation of lithotomy from the bladder of a man aged 24 years. The nucleus is com- posed of Uric Acid, the white mass of Phosphate and Carbonate of Calcium. The nai'row brown zone near the exterior contains also Urates; and the most external layer consists of Phosphate of Calcium. The patient bad suffered from difficulty in micturition and other symptoms of stone from his earliest childhood; and he stated that it was known that he had a stone when 5 years old. His prepuce was removed when, he was 2\ years old, on account of redundancy and irritation. 58. Calculus, the superficial layers of which are composed of Uric Acid with traces of Urates; the middle layers of Uric Acid with traces of Phosphate of Magnesia, and the nucleus of Uric Acid and Phosphate of Lime. 59. Calculus of mixed composition. The outer layer is Phosphate of Lime; the middle, Uric Acid, Phosphate, and Oxalate of Lime, and the nucleus of Phos- phate of Lime. The upper calculus (which was removed at the same time from the same patient) has also three principal layers, of which the outermost is composed of Phosphate of Lime with Oxalate of Lime; the middle, of Uric Acid, and the nucleus of Uric Acid and Oxalate of Lime. CALCULI OF WHICH THE NUCLEUS CONSISTS OF URATE OF AMMONIA. CALCULI CONSISTING MAINLY OF URATE OF AMMONIA. 60. Sections of a Calculus. Urate of Ammonia. From the bladder of a boy. Lithotomy by Mr. Stanley. 61. Sections of a Calculus. Urate of Ammonia with some Phosphate and Oxalate of Lime. The external portion contains more earthy matter than the internal. From the bladder of a boy 5 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle. 62. Fragments of a Calculus. Urate of Ammonia mixed with Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia, and Phosphate of Lime. Fifteen grains yielded on analysis— Uric Acid 9 grams Phosphate of Lime .. .. .. • • 1*5 „ Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia .. 31 „ Ammonia and animal matter .. .. .. 1'4 „ From the bladder. Lithotomy by Sir "Wm. Lawrence. 15-0 63. Portion of a Calculus. Urate of Ammonia with a comparatively large quantity of Phosphate and Oxalate of Lime, and a little Uric Acid; and crystals of Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia between the layers. From the bladder of a boy 7 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle.