SERIES XLII. DISEASES OF THE UTEEINE APPENDAGES. CYSTS CONNECTED "WITH THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. 2934. Two Ovaries, with their Fallopian tubes. A thin-walled membranous cyst, which contained a transparent fluid, is connected with each Fallopian tube near its fimbriated extremity, but does not communicate with its canal. Pro- bably they are hydatids of Morgagni. xxxi. 11 Vide No. 3367, in Series L. DROPSY OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBE. 2935. A Fallopian Tube, the extremity of which is distended into a pyriform sac, which contained upwards of half-a-pint of transparent fluid. The rest of the tube is dilated, but in a much less degree, and is elongated and tortuous. The walls of the sac appear to have been very vascular. xxxi. 15 Presented by W. T. Eogers, Esq. 2936. Part of a Uterus, with a Fallopian tube, the end of which, after the closure of a portion of its canal, was distended by a clear fluid into an'elongated pyriform sac. A bristle is passed from the uterus along the portion of the tube, which retained its natural condition. xxxi. 4 2937. Dropsy of left Fallopian Tube. A delicate layer of false-membrane con- nects the posterior wall of the uterus with that of the dilated portion of the tube. xxxi. 5 Vide No. 3362, in Series L. TUBERCLE OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBE. 2938. The Uterus laid open, and the Fallopian Tubes of a woman; aged 53, who died from tubercular disease of the lungs and intestines. »The Fallopian tubes are the seat of tubercular disease. To the external wall of the uterus, on the left side, a pedunculated fibroid tumour is attached. ABSCESS IN THE BROAD LIGAMENT. 2939. Specimen showing an abscess in the broad ligament, which is stuffed with hair. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. HHEMATOMA OF THE BROAD LIGAMENT. 2940. The Uterus and its appendages. Between the layers of the right broad ligament is a globular cyst, about as big as a walnut, the wall of which, in the recent state, was seen to be formed by the separated layers of the ligament; its cavity was filled with quite recent blood coagula. On the anterior aspect of the cyst were two small, recently formed, irregular openings. From a patient, aged 25, who, while in the Hospital for the treatment of warts on the vulva, was suddenly attacked with the symptoms of internal haemorrhage and died in twelve hours. At the post mortem examination the cavity of the peritoneum contained five pints of recently