135 INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). The >wer is separated from the diaphysis, and broken into several pieces. Owing to the impaction no crepitus could be felt, even after the removal of the surrounding soft parts. From the same case as the preceding specimen. (In Case H.) CAEPAL BONES. Vide No. 924. METACARPAL BONES. 933. Bones of a Carpus and Metacarpus. The proximal extremity of the meta- carpal bone of the thumb has a widely expanded and flattened surface, by which it articulated with a similarly deformed surface on the trapezium. 0. 108 It is probable that these changes were the consequences of a fracture of the metacarpal bone extending into the joint. (In Case H.) SACRUM. 934. Section of a Sacrum, in which there appears to have been a transverse fracture of its lower extremity immediately above the coccyx. A layer of new bone is formed over the supposed line of fracture. 0. 101 (In Case H.) OS INNOMINATUM. 935. Portion of an Os Innominatum, exhibiting a united fracture, with absorption of bone, in the bottom of the acetabulum. The fracture extended in several directions from the centre of the acetabulum to its circumference. III. 02 The fracture was caused by a fall on the trochanter major a few months before death. 936. The Bones of a Hip-Joint. A fracture extends in several directions through the os innominatum. The fracture through the bottom of the acetabulum permitted the head of the femur to sink into the cavity of the pelvis. 0. 64 These injuries were the effects of a fall from a considerable height. (In Case H.) 937. An Os Innominatum. A fracture has split the acetabulum into four portions which are widely separated. From the acetabulum as a centre, fractures also extend through the body and ramus of the pubes ; through the ischium between its spine and tuberosity; and through the ilium, vertically to its crest, and obliquely to its anterior spine. C. 40 (In Case H.) 938. An Os Innominatum. A fracture extends in two directions through the acetabulum. The posterior wall of the acetabulum being separated, and held in its place only by the cotyloid ligament, permitted the head of the femur to pass upwards upon the dorsum of the ilium. C. 41 Vide Nos. 1036, 1038, 1040. (In Case H.) 939. Fracture of the horizontal ramus of the Os Pubis, close to the acetabulum, and of the descending ramus at its junction with the ischium. From a woman, aged 36, who died four weeks aft9r the accident. (In Case H.) 940. An Os Innominatum, in which there appears to have been a fracture of the ramus of the ischium near the tuberosity. New bone is formed around the supposed seat of fracture. C. 99 (In Case H.) 941. Section of the Pubic Bones of an adult, exhibiting a fracture of one of the