DISEASES AND INJURIES INCIDENTAL TO GESTATION AND PARTURITION. 4(55 RETAINED AND ADHERENT PLACENTA. 3093. Section of a Uterus after parturition, showing the placenta adherent at the lower part. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3094. The Uterus and Ovaries of a woman, 25 years old, who miscarried at about the tenth week of pregnancy, and died ten days afterwards from pyaemia. The right ovarian vein was distended by an old clot. The uterus is laid open, and shows an adherent placenta. In the right ovary a corpus luteum is seen. 3095. A Uterus laid open from its anterior aspect. Attached to its posterior and inner wall, somewhat above its middle and to the right, is an oval tumour resembling the placenta in structure, part of which it is believed to have been; it is firmly connected by its base with the subjacent structures. XXXII. 63 From a woman who died after a miscarriage at the fifth month from profuse hcemorrhage after removal, as was supposed, of the entire placenta. CaSSARIAN SECTION. 3096. A Uterus, from an incision, in the anterior wall of which the placenta pro- trudes. Caasarian section was performed immediately after death from enteritis, very near the full time of pregnancy. The preparation shows that the uterus contracted after death. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3097. The Uterus of a woman, upon whom the Caesarian operation was performed. The Pelvis is No. 290 in Series I. 3098. The Uterus of a woman, aged 33 years, on whom the Caesarian operation was performed m the seventh month of her pregnancy. She died fourteen hours afterwards. A large medullary tumour which sprang from the rio-ht ovary occupied the lower portion of the pelvis, and prevented delivery by the natural passage. yttttt 43 3099. The Uterus of a woman, aged 32, on whom the Caesarian operation was PerformecL xxxiii. 44 The pelvis of the patient is No. 291, Series I.—See Martha Ward Book, vol. iii, p. 153. Vide also No. 3091. MISCELLANEOUS. 3100. Uterus of a woman, who died after delivery, which took place while she was suffering from acute peritonitis. The surface of the uterus shows sulci. pSSiST."" deSCribed ^ Matthew8 Duncan's " Mechanism of Natural and Morbid Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3101. The Uterus laid open, of a young woman, aged 19 years, who died oC typhoid fever on the thirtieth day. She had miscarried five days be ( ore death 2 the fifth month of her pregnancy. The interior of the uterus is occupied by a large clot of blood. A corpus luteum was found in the right ovary. 7 3102a. Sequestrum, which separated from the parietal bone. The necrosis was due to the use of the forceps. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan.