DISEASES OF BONES. 2 (In Case E.) 5. An Os Innominatum and part of a Femur. After amputation through the middle of its shaft, the stump of the femur has atrophied as in specimen No. 2, but its head and the acetabulum are unchanged. A- 1^8 (In Case E.) 6. Section of a Femur, the shaft of which was fractured about two inches below the lesser trochanter, after atrophy and softening of its texture. The fractured portions have united firmly and smoothly, but so that they form an acute angle. The posterior surface of the head of the femur is absorbed where, in the altered position of the lower extremity, it rested on the margin of the acetabulum. I. 92 The other half of this hone, and the opposite femur, which was similarly fractured and united, are preserved in Series III, No. 759. The patient, who was about fifty-six years old, had been bedridden for some years before the fractures occurred ; they were both produced while he was being turned in bed. Presented by William James Jones, Esq. 7. Sections of the upper part of a Femur from a very aged woman. Its texture is remarkably soft and light, and contains an abundance of fatty matter which, in maceration, has assumed the appearance of adipocire. The walls of the femur are at the thickest part not more than a line in thickness : the neck is shortened and is rather less oblique than is natural: the head is reduced in size, and irregularly flattened. T- 206 8. The lower extremity of an Atrophied Femur. Its compact walls are ex- tremely thin ; the anterior is bent, the posterior fractured. Some dense fibrous tissue stretches, like the string of a bow, from the extremity of the condyles to the shaft above the point of fracture. *• 303 From a child whose limb was amputated on account of long-standing disease of the knee- joint. A drawing of these parts will be found—No. 1. 9. Part of a Femur from an aged person. Its walls are thin and atrophied, from disuse of the limb after fracture through the neck of the femur. C. 125 (In Case E.) 10. Sections of a Femur in which there is an enlargement of the medullary cavity with thinning of the walls, and general lightness and dryness of texture. A. 92 (In Case E.) 11. Sections of the upper part of a Tibia, exhibiting the effects of extreme atrophy. The walls are so thin that they are in nearly every part transparent. The in- terior of the bone is filled with soft fat, intersected by few and very slender cancelli. The articular surface is ulcerated and partly covered with the fibrous tissue of adhesions. L 263 12. A Section of the shaft and lower end of the same Tibia, partially macerated. It presents the same character of atrophy as the preceding specimen, and shows in a more marked manner the diminution of size which is associated with the thinning of the walls and the proportionate increase of fat. i. 264 The patient was a lad 15 years old, who had suffered for more than a year with disease of the knee-joint. The limb had been kept constantly at rest; but there was nothing in the history of the case to explain the remarkable atrophy not only of the tibia, but of the femur, fibula, and all the bones of the foot. The patient recovered after amputation of the limb. 13. The Bones of the left Leg and Foot of a young woman, aged 23, who had Infantile Paralysis of the left lower extremity when she was eighteen months old. She regained only very imperfect use of the limb. The tendo Achillis was divided three years before the leg was removed, but only slight improve- ment followed this and other treatment.