DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 221 two lines in its chief diameter. Its direction is from above downwards, and from without inwards. Its borders are prominent and thickened towards the canal of the vein, and all the tissues close round it are condensed and indurated; a little further away they all appear healthy. On the wall of the vein, immediately opposite to this aperture, and about three-quarters of an inch below the jugular fossa, a brownish discoloration appears beneath the lining membrane; it is due to the rust of a wedge-shaped piece of iron there imbedded. The piece of iron is exposed, on the other side, by laying open a cavity in which it lies, with all the surrounding tissues closely applied on it, and blackened by its rust and little particles of soil. It is about one-third of an inch in length, and one- quarter of an inch in width at its widest part; its sharper end is directed towards the vein, and is separated from the canal of the vein by the internal coat alone: the pneumogastric, hypoglossal, and spinal accessory nerves are all in close contact with it; it seems, even, to be within the neurolemma of the pneumogastric nerve. The cervical part of the sympathetic nerve is clear from it, but was adherent to the scar-like tissue which enclosed the iron, and in which all the other nerves were almost inseparably imbedded. XIII. 121 The patient was a middle-aged man, and his death was independent of the injury here shown. The injury was received twelve years before death. The piece of iron, broken from the point of a pick-axe, penetrated through the side of the neck. Severe haemorrhage ensued, but the wound healed without difficulty. A loud whizzing sound, and strong vibration, were always perceptible over the swelling produced by the dilated artery. VARICOSE ANEURISM. 1463. The External Iliac, Femoral, and Popliteal Arteries, with the femoral and popliteal veins, exhibiting a spontaneous varicose aneurism of the femoral artery and vein, and part of an aneurism of the posterior tibial artery. The upper piece of glass in the lower aneurismal sac is passed through the posterior tibial artery. The two lower pieces of glass are passed through the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries, both of which are continued from the lower part of the aneurism. The aneurism of the femoral artery is situated just before its passage through the tendon of the adductor magnus muscle: it is a small globular sac, formed by dilatation of the whole circum- ference of the artery. Earthy matter is deposited in the parietes of this aneurism, and it communicates directly with the femoral vein. The interior of the vein presents a rounded opening, with thin and smooth edges, about a quarter of an inch in diameter. Around this opening the vein is closely united to the aneurism, and immediately below it the cavity of the vein is obliterated to the extent of half an inch. A ligature had been placed around the femoral artery about a week before death. Immediately above the ligature is a large irregular opening in the artery, from which fatal haemorrhage took place. Around this opening, and both above and below the ligature, the whole length of the artery is uniformly dilated to the size of an abdominal aorta, and its coats are very thin. XIII The patient was a man 47 years old. The aneurism of the posterior tibial arterv had pro- bably existed more than four year?, that of the femoral artery about two years *The most striking sign of the disease was a peculiar purring thrill which was felt along the whole course of the femoral artery, both during its pulsations and in the intervals between them but which could be stopped by pressure on the varicose aneurism. Long-continued pressure on this part produced, it was behoved, the obliteration of the vein about six months before the patient's death. The ligature was applied to the femoral artery shortly after a sudden increase had taken place m the aneurism of the posterior tibial artery. The patient died with hamiorrhatre on the sixth day after the operation. The case is described by Mr. Perry in the Medico Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xx, p. 32. London, 1837. Presented by J. G. Perry, Esq. DISSECTING ANEURISM. 1464. Part of a Heart, with the Aorta. A transverse rent extends through the inner and middle coats of the whole circumference of the aorta, about half an