SERIES VII. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE PERICARDIUM, AND OF THE HEART. INFLAMMATION OF THE PERICARDIUM (PERICARDITIS). EFFUSION OF LYMPH. . 1217. A Heart, on the surface of which, as well as on the interior ot the re- flected pericardium, there is an abundant deposit of soft lymph, ihe outer surface of the lymph is reticulated; its attached surface is loosely adherent. J 1 XII. l Prom a child 16 months old, who died after a few days' illness. 1218 The Heart of a Child 8 months old, with an abundant recent deposit of lymph over the whole free surface of the pericardium. The external portion ot the pericardium is thickened. The heart is not enlarged. X«- Presented by Dr. West. 1219 A Heart and Pericardium, from a child 15 months old. Both the layers of pericardium are covered by a thick coating of soft lymph. The lymph on the heart has a coarsely reticular surface; that on the parietal pericardium is m a thinner and smoother layer; and the two are connected at the base ot the heart by several columns of lymph passing from the one to the other. xn. 5b Presented by Dr. West. 1220. A Heart with its Pericardium, the latter acutely inflamed. 30 Prom a native of China brought into the dissecting-room. The other membranes of the chest were slightly affected. Prom the collection of J. R. Parre, Jisq., NL.u. 1221 A Heart, with layers of recent lymph over the whole free surface of the Pericardium ' A thin and transparent membrane has been formed over the lymph which covers the reflected pericardium. The lymph presents a reticu- lated surface. The heart is slightly enlarged. xn. 5 From a patient who had acute rheumatism. 1222 A Heart greatly enlarged in all its parts, and with thickening of the mitral valve Near'the edge of the valve is a fringe of minute, fibrinous deposits. Both surfaces of the pericardium are covered with a layer of reticulated and flocculent lymph, some of which had been recently deposited. The parietal pericardium is thickened. XIL ' Prom a boy 11 years old, who had had repeated attacks of acute rheumatism.