DISEASES OF BONES. 11 was at first supposed to be due to a fracture or traumatic separation of the epiphysis. Subsequently the knee-joint became inflamed.--See Lawrence Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 63. 70. Portions of the Lower End of the Right Femur removed by amputation from a man, aged 27 years, who had suffered from obscure disease of the knee for four years. The knee was much enlarged, and there was extreme unnatural lateral motion with a grating sensation, supposed to be in the joint itself. After removal, the synovial membrane was found to be thickened and dilated, but the joint was otherwise sound and admitted of no undue motion. The grating and mobility were due to a separation of the condyles from the shaft of t lie femur and a hollowing out of the posterior surface of the bone. The distortion was due to the leg and condyles of the femur having been drawn upwards and backwards. The excavated surfaces of the bone were covered with a smooth hard layer of bone, except in places where crops of granulations had sprung up. In the soft parts around were traces of old purulent collections. The shaft of the femur has been divided vertically ; it is very dense, and covered with a thick layer of new bone. (In Case E.) 71. The Upper Extremity of a child's Humerus, in which the epiphysis is separated from the shaft. The periosteum is separated from nearly the whole circumference of the upper extremity of the diaphysis, which is necrosed, and the surrounding tissues are thickened and infiltrated. I. 261 The signs of the disease were like those of acute suppurative inflammation of the shoulder- joint. Presented by D. H. Gabb, Esq. INFLAMMATION OF BONE WITH FORMATION OF NEW BONE AND THICKENING (Osteo-plastic Ostitis and Periostitis), AND OTHER PROCESSES ATTENDED WITH THE NEW FORMATION OF BONE. 72. Fragments of the upper part of a Skull increased to from half an inch to three-quarters of an inch in thickness, and consisting throughout of a very fine spongy or porous substance, which is dry, hard, and heavy, but friable and crumbling under the fingers, like hardened mortar. Into this substance both all the diploe and the tables of the skull are changed: in the inner table scarcely any trace, in the outer no trace, of compact substance remains. The grooves and apertures for blood-vessels in the inner table are very strongly marked. i. 36 73. Part of the vertex of a Skull, a Patella and Tibia affected with Ostitis Deformans (Paget). All the sutures of the skull are obliterated ; the thickness is in every part greatly increased. The temporal ridge is very prominent. In the median vertical section the frontal bone measures 11 to 13 lines the parietal 14 to 16, and the occipital 8 to 12, which is about four times the usual thickness of the normal bones. The outer surface of the skull is finely porous and perforated by innumerable apertures for blood-vessels. The inner surface is little changed except by the enlargement of all channels and apertures for blood-vessels. The cut surface is for the most part dense and compact, but in some parts porous, cancellous' or eavernous ; the spaces were filled with soft reddish substance like medulla There are also larger cavities in which soft cancerous growths were Jodo-ed' The outer surface of the tibia is irregular, finely nodular, and perforated bv numerous apertures for the transmission of blood-vessels. The compact substance is m every part greatly increased in thickness, but the medulhrv space is not much encroached upon: the cancellous tissue of the upner articular end has a normal aspect and arrangement. The patella presents similar changes. Microscopic examination showed that -