72 DISEASES OF BONES. have grown. The principal growth is nearly spherical and about three inches in diameter. It appears to be composed of soft cancerous substance, with some portions of cartilagp, and, in parts, a delicate osseous structure. The rib cannot be traced in it. $5. 103 The patient was an adult male. The tumours had been observed for several years ; but they had scarcely enlarged till shortly before death, when they rapidly increased, and numerous medullary tumours appeared about them and in more distant parts. 500. A Section of the Sternal End of a Clavicle and of a Medullary Cancer con- nected with it. The tumour had been observed for nine months, in the first six increasing gradually, and for the last three months rapidly. The parts were removed by operation from a lad. He made a good recovery, and when he "left the Hospital was able to use the arm well. 500a. Section of a Humerus, around the middle of the shaft of which a firm obscurely fibrous medullary cancer has formed. Within the tumour the texture of the humerus, apparently infiltrated with medullary matter, is soft and brittle, and was broken during life by a slight force. The disease extends for a short di stance into the medullary canal above and below the fracture, and a small round mass of new growth, like that investing the shaft, is embedded on the inner surface of the wall. *• ^50 From an old lady who had suffered for some months from pains like those of rheumatism in the arm. She died shortly after the fracture of the humerus. See microscopic sections, No. 43; and a drawing, A. 19. Presented by Herbert Evans, Esq. 501. Section of an Ilium and of a Medullary Tumour covering a large extent of both its surfaces and extending through its substance. The tumour is of oval form, and reaches from the crest of the ilium to near the margin of the aceta- bulum. It is composed of a soft, spongy, and floccnlent, reddish medullary substance in which a few small cysts are scattered. It is covered in by the thickened periosteum of the ilium. At its centre the substance of the ilium is irregularly broken and absorbed, so that here the tumours on each side of the bone are connected into one mass by the morbid substance diffused through its texture. Portions of the iliacus and gluteus medins muscles are left connected with the periosteum, over which they were spread out in the growth of the tumour. L 235 502. Another Section of the same parts. A portion of the tumour has been so removed as to show the surface of the wall of the ilium on which it rested, and parts of which are absorbed in minute round holes and irregular spaces, through which the growth without appears to dip in, and be connected with that within the ilium. L 236 503. Another Section of the same Ilium macerated, to show the same partial absorption of its walls, and the other changes which it has undergone by the growth of the tumour. L 23 * 504. Portion of the Periosteum of the same Ilium, with fragments of the Medullary Tumour, held together by fibrous bands, cords, and blood-vessels, somewhat like those of an erectile tissue. These pass from the inner surface of the periosteum, intersecting the substance of the tumour. L 238 505. A Medullary Tumour, removed from the arm of the.patient from whom the four preceding specimens were taken. It is of elongated oval form, soft and spongy in its texture, and has a few cysts scattered through it. Its proper colour is pale and nearly white; but it is blotched with many spots of vascularity and effused blood. It is invested by a thin fibrous capsule, with which a part of the brachial artery and median nerve are closely connected with it. I. 239