116 INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). A moderately firm union has taken place between the surfaces of bone which are in contact. The bones ai-e very light. C. 48 From a -woman, 67 years old, who died five weeks after the occurrence of the injury. (In Case H.) 798. Section of a fractured Rib, which has united with displacement and overlapping of its ends. The firm union of the two portions of the rib has been effected by the abundant deposit of osseous substance in the texture of the periosteum and contiguous cellular tissue around, for some way above, and below the fracture. A spiculum of bone projects from one side of the rib; this was probably a fragment separated by the fracture, and re-united to the outer surface of the rib. IIL 81 799. A Clavicle of a man seven weeks after fracture, showing union, with considerable displacement, by the formation of callus between and around the fractured surfaces. He died of concussion of the brain. ill. 134 799a. Sections of the Tibia of a middle-aged woman, which was fractured through the junction of its middle and lower thirds, sixteen weeks before death. The ends of the two portions overlap each other nearly an inch ; and a firm union of them is effected by new bone, formed between those surfaces, which, in their overlapping, were opposed to, and partly in contact with, each other. No new bone or callus is formed at any other part. The periosteum and the tissues adjacent to the bones appeared healthy, except in having small effusions of blood in them. HI. 113 800. Part of a Humerus fractured transversely. The fractured ends overlie each other, and are united by an irregular, dense, bony deposit, which forms an imperfect investment. The compact portion of the bone is thickened, and of an ivory-like character. C. 122 (In Case H.) 801. An oblique fracture of the Femur at the junction of the upper two-thirds with the lower third. The bone is much shortened by the riding of the upper fragment over the lower. The fragments are firmly united by large masses of callus which occupy the interspace between, and partially surround them. The rough edges of the bone are thinned, and were apparently undergoing absorption. 111 ■ 128 802. Section of a Femur, in which there has been a fracture through the middle of its shaft. The section was made after softening the bone in dilute hydro- chloric acid. The fracture is firmly united, with the upper portion of the bone projecting in front, and on the inner side of the lower. The uniting medium consists of bone placed between the adjacent surfaces of the displaced portions of the femur; and in this new bone there are formed cancellous tissue of healthy aspect, and an outer thick wall of compact tissue. This wall of the uniting medium of new bone is connected with the surfaces of the two portions of the f'i smttr, and with the layers of compact new bone by which their medullary tubes exposed by the fracture, and not placed in apposition, are covered in. The corresponding parts of the walls of the overlapping ends of the fragments are thinned, as if in the progress of absorption by which, ultimately, the can- cellous tissue of the uniting medium would have become continuous with that of both portions of the broken bone. in. 98 803. The other Section of the same Femur. The ends of the bone have over- lapped ; the upper portion uniting to the inside of the lower. c. 63 (In Case H.) 804. Sections of a Femur fractured near the middle of its shaft, The ends of the bone overlap, the upper portion being united to the front of the lower. Strong pointed osseous growths project trom the surface of the bone by which