398 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. 2628. Anteroposterior section of an Eye completely filled by a pink, tolerably firm, fleshy growth, which protrudes through the anterior part. The growth appears to be enclosed by the remains of the choroid. Its microscopic characters are those of a spindle-cell sarcoma. From a man, aged 38, who in infancy lost the sight of the eye from purulent ophthalmia. He first noticed the growth nine months before his admission to the Hospital, and was then obliged to desist from wearing an artificial eye. The eye had apparently not grown since childhood. MELANOTIC SARCOMA. 2629. Sections of an Eye, of which the Globe is almost completely filled by a mass of medullary and melanotic substance. The diseased growth appears to have originated between the choroid membrane and the retina. The former still surrounds it; the latter, entire but pressed to one side of the eye, is exhibited in the upper part of the preparation. The lens is pressed forwards into contact with the inner surface of the cornea; the iris forms a narrow ring around its margin. At the back of the preparation are two considerable staphylomatous projections of the sclerotic, which, before the removal of the eye, were observable at the lower and outer part of the front of the globe. ix. 18 The patient was a girl, 20 years old. The disease had existed more than six months, and for three months its progress had been attended by extreme pain. She remained well for three years after the operation. Then, melanotic disease was developed in the liver, heart, and many other parts ; but the disease did not return in the orbit. A portion of her heart is in Series VII, No. 1290 ; and her pancreas in Series XXIII, No. 2270. The case is related by Sir Wm. Lawrence in a Clinical Lecture in the London Medical Gazette, vol. xxxvi, p. 961. London, 1845. 2630. Melanotic Sarcoma of Choroid. The posterior half of the eye is shown. The lower and inner thirds of the cavity of the globe are occupied by a melanotic mass which springs from the choroid. The upper and outer third of the choroid is healthy. The retina was detached, and lay in the anterior half of the globe. On the inner side the growth has passed through the sclerotic. The tumour shown, which lay in the apex of the orbit, was connected with this outgrowth ; the optic nerve is imbedded in its outer side. The patient was a collier, aged 54 years. 2631. Melanotic Sarcoma of the Choroid. The entire globe is filled with a densely black growth, which has destroyed almost every trace of the normal structures. The growth has made its way through the coats of the eye at their posterior aspect, and the orbit was filled by a similar morbid material. The eye was removed from a man, aged 25. It had become blind soon after an injury in very early life, but had only become enlarged and painful about six months previous to*the operation. 2632. Sections of an Eye, which is filled by a soft medullary and melanotic substance, of mingled shades of dusky grey and black, which has also protruded through the back part of the sclerotic, forming a nodulated elevation by the side of the optic nerve. The optic nerve is reduced in size, but appears otherwise sound : the lens and iris are pressed against the cornea. ix. 8 The patient was a man, 30 years old, and the disease had been about two years in progress : the globe was slightly enlarged by the growth within it. A year after the extirpation of the eye, the patient was in good health. The case is related by Sir Wm. Lawrence in his " Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye." London, 1844, 8vo, p. 719. 2633. Sections of an Eye, with its Globe nearly filled by a medullary and melanotic growth, which also protrudes through the upper and anterior part of the sclerotic, and forms, externally to the eye, a mass larger than the eye itself. The part of the tumour within the eye is nearly black : that, which is'external