SEKIES V. DISEASES AND DEFOKMITIES OF THE SPINE. CARIES (ULCERATION) OF THE VERTEBRA. 1059. Portion of a Spine, exhibiting ulceration of the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the cervical vertebrae, from the second to the fifth, and more super- ficial ulceration of their anterior surfaces, with deposits of new bone. IV. 24 1060. Portion of a Spine, exhibiting ulceration of the arches of the vertebrae. The left halves of the arches of the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical vertebrae are almost completely destroyed. A portion of the ulcerated bone became sepa- rated, and pressed upon the spinal cord. The remaining portions of the bones are of their natural texture. IV- 22 1061. Section of a Child's Spine, from the second cervical to the third dorsal vertebra. The whole of the body of the fifth and part of that of the sixth vertebra are, together with the intervening fibro-cartilage, destroyed by ulcera- tion. The body of the fourth, and the remains of that of the sixth vertebra, are solidified, hard, and yellow. A collection of purulent fluid existed between the diseased vertebrae and their periosteum, both in front of the bodies and behind them, and part of it was discharged by ulceration into the spinal canal. iv. 42 1062. Section of a Spine, in which the adjacent parts of the bodies of two dorsal vertebrae are infiltrated with inflammatory materials, and deeply ulce- rated. A portion of the diseased bone has been separated and protruded for- wards. The intervertebral substance between the two diseased vertebrae is completely absorbed. An abscess has formed by the side of the diseased portion of the spine, but it has no communication with the ulcerated bone. iv. 21 1063. Section of a Spine, including four lower dorsal Vertebrae. The interver- tebral substance and the adjacent parts of the bodies of two of the vertebrae are destroyed by ulceration, and the bone bordering the ulcerated surfaces is con- solidated and hard. Between two other vertebrae a circumscribed cavity is formed, like that of a small abscess, by the removal of the central part of the intervertebral substance, and of adjacent portions of the bodies of the vertebrae. Again, between two others, a small cavity is formed by the removal of a portion of the'intervertebral substance, and of the surface of one vertebra. It may be assumed that in this case disease commenced in the intervertebral substance, and from thence extended to the substance of the vertebrae; thence also^ it has extended to their anterior surfaces, which are extensively ulcerated, with separation of their periosteum. iv- 45