SERIES XLIII DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. DISPLACEMENTS. ANTEFLEXION. 2943. Model of a Section of an ill-developed Uterus, affected with extreme anteflexion. There is no obliteration of the canal, and no thinning of the uterine wall at the point of flexion. 2943a. Cast of the same Uterus entire. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 2944. A Uterus, with acute anteflexion and a slight lateral inclination. A dimple on the mucous membrane is the only indication of the bs; there is no com- munication between it and the cervical canal. The cavity of the body of the uterus appears normal. RETROFLEXION. 2945. Sections of a Uterus, with a well-marked retroflexion. From a woman, aged 32 years. She did not complain of any uterine trouble.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. viii, p. 117. PROCIDENTIA. 2946. A Uterus, with part of the Vagina, exhibiting a prolapsus of the uterus, with considerable elongation of its neck and enlargement of the portion which projects into the vagina. xxxn. 30 2947. A vertical antero-posterior Section of a Uterus, and of the peritoneal pouches between it and the bladder and rectum, from a case of prolapsus uteri with eversion of the vagina. The os uteri was protruded beyond the labia. ^ Its cavity is elongated. The pouches of peritoneum are very deep, and contained portions of the small intestines which were protruded in them as in a hernia. A bristle is placed in the right ureter. xxxn. 35 2948. The body of the Pubes with the external organs of generation. The vagina is everted, forming a tumour seven inches and three quarters in length, and thirteen inches in circumference at its widest part. This tumour has been laid open and the flap turned upwards; it contains at its lower extremity the uterus and its appendages, the broad ligaments being much thickened and the round ligaments thickened and elongated. At its anterior and upper part is the bladder which is opened and the tracks of the urethra and ureters are indicated by the coloured directors. Just above, and on the outer side of the everted vagina, is the external opening of the urethra, and at its lower extremity is that of the uterus. The remainder of the cavity was occupied by a portion of small