DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. 282 DIPHTHERIA. 1837. Membranous Films removed from the mucous surface of the pharynx. Similar ones extended into the larynx. One of these is preserved, and shows that the disease involved the bronchial tubes. The films are opaque, firm, and tough. They do not present any recognizable structure, but consist of granular matter, exudation corpuscles, with traces of imperfect filaments. xxiv. 23 From a case of diphtheria. ULCERATION. 1838. Part of a Pharynx and (Esophagus, with the Larynx. The mucous mem- brane of a part of the pharynx and oesophagus is destroyed by ulceration. The surface of the ulcer is uneven and ragged, and in one point marked by a bristle ; the ulceration extends through the adjacent lateral wall of the trachea. xxiv. 7 SYPHILITIC ULCERATION. 1839. The Base of a Tongue, with the Pharynx and other adjacent parts. A large portion of the mucous and submucous tissues of the pharynx, and of one margin of the epiglottis, is destroyed by sloughing and ulceration. The mucous membrane covering the upper part of the larynx is cedematous and, in some parts, superficially ulcerated. xxiv. 8 From a girl who was greatly debilitated by the effects of syphilis and mercury. SIMPLE STRICTURE OF THE CESOPHAGUS. 1840. A Pharynx and (Esophagus, with the Larynx and other adjacent parts. Just below the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, the canal of the oesophagus is reduced to a quarter of an inch in diameter, and appears flattened from before backwards. The tissues for some distance around this part are thickened, indurated, and consolidated. The mucous membrane of the anterior wall of the pharynx above the stricture is ulcerated, and appears cedematous, as if an abscess had been discharged through it. Below the stricture the oesophagus is healthy. XXIV- 1 1841. Portion of an (Esophagus, showing a marked narrowing of the canal. The mucous membrane is firm, dense, and some cicatrices are seen on the surface, but there is no evidence of a new growth. From a woman, who died of pneumonia. She had long suffered from dysphagia, supposed to be clue to a malignant growth in the oesophagus. Vide also No. 1834. MORBID GROWTHS, &c. CANCER. 1842. Epithelioma of the Pharynx. A large cancerous tumour springs from the ri^ht side of the pharynx, at, the level of the upper part of the larynx. In the natural state of the parts, the tumour almost completely occluded the canal of the oesophagus. During the last month of life deglutition was less difficult than beforehand small pieces of meat were sometimes swallowed. The patient was 41 years of age. He died after a long illness with abscesses in the lungs and right arm. 1843 A Pharynx, with the soft Palate, and part of the base of the skull. The upper part of the pharynx is completely filled by a nearly globular growth of soft medullary substance, with a warty surface. The growth appears to have had its orio-in in the walls of the pharynx, from which it projects, not only into the pharyngeal cavity, but also forwards into the mouth under the soft palate, and backwards towards the spine. xxiv. 5 The patient was not aware of the existence of the tumour till within a few weeks of his