378 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. The case is described by Mr. Earle in the Medico- Chirurgical Transactions, vol. hi, p. 59. London, 1812. The rigbt lung is preserved in Series XI, No. 1734 j also a microscopic section of one of the tumours of the brain, No. 102. 2500. Section of a Tumour, which pervaded the brain from the surface of the hemispheres to the base of the cerebrum. In its progress it involved parts from which the optic nerves are believed to arise. The ventricles contained rather an excess of serum. The cerebellum presented a natural appearance. There was a similar deposit in the kidneys. 15 From a woman between 20 and 30 years of age, who had suffered from amaurosis for more than two months. Latterly the symptoms had been those of hydrocephalus. A microscopic section is preserved, No. 103. Presented by Mr. Baker. From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2501. Sections of a round-cell Sarcoma, which occupied the interior of the lateral ventricles of a boy, aged 12. The tumour is of irregularly oval form, knobbed on its surface, and measures from three to four inches in its diameters. It appears to consist throughout of a soft medullary substance. Portions of the choroid plexus are attached to one of its surfaces. vi. 51 The boy had from infancy been subject to severe pain in the head; eight months before death he became amaurotic and of weak intellect. A microscopic section is preserved, No. 104. Presented by W. C. Clough, Esq. CANCERS. 2502. The Base of a Brain. The superior and anterior portion of the cerebellum is occupied by a soft cancer, of a white colour mottled with red, which extends downwards into the centre of the cerebellum, and projects forwards through the transverse fissure into the ventricles as a roundish nodule about the size oE a marble. In the centre of the cerebellum the tumour is uniformly red; it passes indefinitely into the surrounding brain substance. The ventricular cavities are somewhat dilated, and the aqueduct of Sylvius is obliterated. Microscopic Examination.—The microscopic characters of the growth are those of cancer, which probably originated from the endothelium of the empendyma. History.—The specimen was taken from a man, aged 30 years ; about seven or eight weeks before his admission to the Hospital he went to the Moorfields Ophthalmic Hospital, on account of dimness of vision. During the last six weeks he had suffered from severe frontal head- ache and restless nights ; and for the last ten days from constant vomiting. He was, on admission, very restless, but dull and stupid. The respirations were irregular and very slow, four per minute; the pulse, full, fifty-eight per minute. There was double optic neuritis and photophobia, but no squint. No paralysis. A slight internal strabismus was noticed some days later but otherwise he continued in much the same condition, at times being more stupid, and then improving again. Finally he became comatose, and died a month after admission.—See John Ward Book, voL vii, p. 73. A microscopic section is preserved, No. 105. 2502a. Portions of Brain, in which there are small circumscribed cancerous tumours. The tumours are round, slightly nodular, moderately firm, and on their cut surfaces appear granular with a mixture of a few radiating fibres. The adjacent cerebral substance appears healthy. vi. 62 In microscopic characters the tumours resemble the preceding specimen. There were many similar tumours in different parts of the brain, but chiefly on its surface. The patient was an elderly woman, who had suffered long with obscure cerebral symptoms. A microscopic section is preserved, No. 106. 2503. Portion of Cerebrum, with a small cancerous tumour, which was imbedded between its convolutions. The tumour is nodulated on its surface, and is com-