554 PAT BOLOGICAL MICROSCOPIC SPECIMENS. spindle-cells, but also to a slighter extent of small round-cells, with no appre- ciable intercellular substance. 112. Horizontal Sections through the Porus Opticus, and a Glioma, which pro- jected from it into the eye-ball. The growth is composed entirely of closely packed small round cells, with traces of delicate intercellular substance. DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 113. Sections through pustules removed from the back, produced by the adminis- tration of iodide of potassium. The pustules occupy the deeper layer of the epithelium, and are covered by the cuticle. The epithelial cells around them are flattened, so as to assume a spindle shape; and the papillary layer beneath is flattened out, even, excavated, and contains many "indifferent" cells. There is nothing to indicate that the hair-follicles, or sweat-glands, are implicated. See an account of the Specimens by Drs. Dyce Duckworth and Y. D. Harris, Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. xxx, 1879. TUMOURS. FIBROUS. 114. Section through a small Molluscum Fibrosum. It is composed of fibro- nuclear tissue, viz.: homogeneous connective tissue containing abundant nuclei. The layer of epithelium covering the tumour is extremely thin. EPITHELIOMA. 115. Sections through the margin of a Rodent Ulcer (epithelioma), implicating the cheek. The sections were taken from the upper lip. At the margin of the ulcer the epithelium is destroyed, and the surface is breaking down; the surrounding tissue is thickly infiltrated with indifferent cells: and rounded masses or branching columns composed of small epithelial cells—or nuclei of epithelial cells—are imbedded in it. The epithelium immediately beyond the margin of the ulcer is thickened. 116. Section of an Epithelioma which originated apparently within the cavity of a sebaceous cyst. The section shows a loose, ill-formed connective tissue in which columns and masses of squamous epithelial cells are imbedded. The tumour, which was the size of a fist, was removed from the neck of an old lady. PARASITES. 117. Portion of Hairs from a case of " Porrigo Decalvans." 118. Itch Parasites from a Horse (Sarcoptes Equi). DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE. SYPHILIS. 119. Section of the margin of a Syphilitic Gumma in the Testicle. The gumma itself is composed of indistinct degenerating non-vascular fibroid tissue; but at its periphery the section shows a loose fibrous tissue enclosing abundant nuclei in its meshes; the numerous vessels of this tissue are injected. Prom Specimen No. 2771. TUMOURS. SARCOMATA. 120. Section of a Nodule of hyaline Cartilage imbedded in a Sarcomatous