SERIES XII. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE, MOUTH, TONGUE, PALATE, AND FAUCES. DISEASES OF THE NOSE. LIPOMA. 1760. A pendulous Lipoma, which hung from the extremity of the nose and septum nasi. It is composed of tough fibro-cellular tissue. The specimen was removed from an Italian, aged 53 ; it had been growing since he was nine years old. A similar, but smaller tumour was attached to the upper lip.—See Henry Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 8. Vide Nos. 2705, 2706, Series XXXV. 1761. Lipoma, probably malignant, removed from a man, aged 20 years, on whose nose it had been growing slowly for twelve months without pain or glandular enlargement. The tumour occupied the whole of the nose from the nasal bones downwards. It was hard, of a dusky red colour, especially at the base, and covered with wart-like nodules. Much haemorrhage followed the operation. The exposed surface granulated healthily. xxiii. 35 THICKENING- OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 1762. Section of a Nose, in which the mucous membrane covering the posterior portion of the inferior turbinated bone is thick, soft, and spongy; so that in the recent state it resembled a vascular tumour or polypus projecting in the nasal passage. xxiii. 23 GLANDERS. 1763. Portion of the Septum Nasi of a Horse, exhibiting pustules and ulcers of the pituitary membrane. Each separate ulcer is small and circular; but on the posterior part of each surface of the septum there is a large extent of ulceration of an irregular form, probably the result of the coalescence of many small ulcers with each other. xxiii. 21 The disease was produced by inoculation with matter taken from an abscess in the arm of a man who was believed to have been infected by glanders. Previous to the inoculation the horse was healthy. POLYPI. 1764. Sections of a Nose, exhibiting on each side large soft polypi, which are suspended from the mucous membrane covering the inferior and middle spongy bones. One polypus of smaller size is situated in the frontal sinus. They we&re probably of gelatinous aspect, though now, having collapsed and fluid havino- escaped from them, they appear opaque. xxiii. 15 1765. Numerous Polypi removed from the Nose. They arc of soft texture,