14 DISEASES OF BONilS. sponcry bone. The disease occupied the greater part of the parietal bone, pro- ducing a considerable elevation of the outer table, but no depression of table. Presented by John Avery, Esq. 91. Portions of the right Clavicle of a man, aged 30 years. . . . .. . , The whole of the bone, with the exception of about an inch of its acromial extremity, was removed by operation on account of considerable enlargement of the sternal half, which had been in progress for three years The section shows that the bone is enlarged and much condensed. Here and there through- out its substance are minute cavities filled with soft granulation tissue. I. 66L 92. Sections of a Humerus. The middle of the shaft is unnaturally curved, and is enlarged, chiefly by the expansion of its walls. A small quantity of new bone is deposited on the surface of the enlarged part. (In Case E.) 93. Sections of a Humerus, in which, though the shaft is sf^ceV^nlo^ manv parts of its cancellous tissue are consolidated. In the place ot the ZZZy tube there remain only several small isolated cavities winch weve filled by marrow. Where the cancellous tissue is not quite consolidated, its osseous lainell* and fibres are thickened, so that the spaces between them are much encroached upon. ' had healed many years before death. (In CaseE.) 94 Sections of the Humerus, from a young person in whom there had been long s'tandTnnisease in and around the elbow-joint. A very thick layer of new osseous0subStance has formed around the shaft, extending to the borders of its art cular surface. This osseous substance presents a vascular cancellous teXt and is surrounded by a layer of compact substance which is covered bg the periosteum of the original bone. 95 Sections of the Ulna from the same Elbow-Joint^ The same changes have occurred here : the shaft of the ulna is surrounded by a very thick layer of cTcXusos'eous substance covered by a layer of compact bone and by the periosteum of the original bone. Qfi Sections of the Radius from the same Elbow-Joint This bone, also has 9 undergone the same changes as have occurred around the humerus and the UhrLe specimens illustrate the mode of enlargement of the artienlar ends of bones in ehronic joint-disease. Q7 Sections of the lower part of a Femur, enlarged and having a cavity in its 97. Septmns or 11 ui ani wali 0f the bone surrounding this cavity exhibit a 1 nr^l texture Upou fhe outer surface of the bone, corresponding with the ^ZtotaJfc*** i" - considerable deposit of new bone, apparently the result of irritation of the periosteum. It is not known what the cavity in the femur contained, nor under what cn-cumstanees it was formed. 98 Sections of a Femur, exhibiting an increased thickness and density of the walls of the upper half of its shait. (In Case E.) 99. A Femur, Tibia, and Fibula, the shafts of which are generally enlarged.