400 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. downwards and forwards, pressing against the ciliary processes, and the back of the iris. CATARACT. BLACK. 2641. The Nucleus of a very dark Lens, removed by operation from a man, aged 56. CONSECUTIVE. 2642. Cataract. The anterior chamber is obliterated ; the iris is in close contact with the cornea. The patient had long suffered with iritis, and the eye was quite blind. Excision was performed on account of very severe ciliary neuralgia. PYRAMIDAL. Vide No. 2669. CALCAREOUS DEGENERATION OF THE LENS. 2643. A shrunken and degenerated Eye, the result of an old injury. The lens has undergone calcareous degeneration. The eye was removed on account of inflammation of the opposite globe. Vide No. 2615. VITREOUS HUMOUR. INFLAMMATION AND ITS EFFECTS. 2644. The Eye of a man, showing suppuration of the vitreous humour, caused by a fragment of a chisel, which was found within it, and which had produced the rusty discoloration observable. 2645. Suppuration of the Retina. This structure is everywhere much thickened, infiltrated with pus, and partially separated from the choroid, which is little changed. The lens has disappeared ; the anterior chamber contains pus. When the section of the globe was made a large quantity of pus escaped from the vitreous. Kemovcd from a boy, aged 11, ten days after a blow with a stone. 2646. The half of an Eye. The entire contents of the globe had become con- verted into one uniform mass of cheesy consistence. A layer of the substance lines the anterior chamber. A dark line running across the eye seems to mark the situation of the choroid and retina, which have been detached and driven forwards. Posteriorly it is hard to define the sclerotic, it being so blended with the contents of the globe. From a girl, whose eye became blind during convalescence after measles. 2647. The Eye of a man, which had been blind for many years after prolonged inflammation. The vitreous humour is solid and shrivelled into a nodulated mass of firm earthy material. The retina is m situ, and seems to be rendered opaque and irregularly thickened by a similar material. The choroid is in a similar condition. Probably the result of suppuration. 2648. A shrunken Eye from a boy. The lens formed a round mass of degene- rated tissue, of cartilaginous hardness. The place of the vitreous humour is taken by dense white fibrous tissue, with soft yellowish patches here and there. The choroid is in its proper position, but no trace of retina could be found. The sclerotic is much thickened and crumpled posteriorly, but is otherwise normal.