DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COVERINGS, AND THE SPERMATIC CORD. 421 seven or eight inches in length by five or six in breadth ; it was of an uneven pyriform shape, tense and of soft semi-fluctuating consistence. The softness w as at some points so extreme as to have given many the impression that the disease was cystic. The testicular surface of the tunica vaginalis is perfectly smooth, and at no part adherent to the scrotal surface. The spermatic cord and epididymis are not involved in the morbid growth. The section of the tumour is divided into three or four lobules of unequal size. Microscopic Examination.—The tumour is divided into oval or irregular alveoli by broad trabecular of imperfectly developed connective tissue containing a large number of round, oval, and spindle-shaped nuclei. The alveoli enclose closely-packed round or oval cells, of very uniform size; in a few instances a thin rim of unstained protoplasm can be seen surrounding the large deeply-stained nucleus. The normal st ructure of the testicle can nowhere be recognised. From a man, aged 34 years. Fourteen months before admission to the Hospital he first noticed a slight enlargement of his right testicle, and subsequently it steadily increased in size. His general health was not affected, and he suffered no pain, only some inconvenience from the weight of the organ. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 122.—See Aberneihy Ward Book, vol. v£p. 380. 2799. A Medullary Cancer of the Testicle, injected. The organ measures five inches long by four broad. The two layers of the tunica vaginalis are adherent to each other. On the surface of the section the outline of the testicle proper is still distinguishable; it is marbled by the intermixture of brownish-red masses with the white medullary substance; the injection has not penetrated into this part of the tumour. Above and below the infiltrated epididymis is cut across. Its numerous vessels are injected ; the growth is here softer and more brain-like. Microscopic Examination.—The irregularly dilated ducts of the testicle are in places dis- tinguishable ; they are filled with small granular cells intermingled with much granular debris. There is no alveolar arrangement, except that produced by the dilated ducts. In some parts of the tumour there is a large quantity of connective tissue, almost destitute of cells. From a man, aged 35 years. His right testicle began to enlarge six or eight months before his admission to the Hospital, without evident cause ; it increased in size very rapidly. The testicle was oval, smooth, soft, and semi-fluctuating.—See Pitcairn Ward Book, vol. v, p. 434. 2800. A Medullary Cancer of the Left Testicle, which had descended through the inguinal canal, but had not reached the scrotum. In the operation for its removal the diseased testicle was found lying immediately beneath the integu- ments and outside the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. The right testicle was healthy and in the normal situation. From a man, aged 25 years. 2801. Section of a Testicle occupied by a large oval mass of soft, medullary substance, probably soft cancer. The morbid growth extends from the upper part of the testicle into the cellular tissue of the spermatic cord. The opposite surfaces of the tunica vaginalis are adherent. xxvin. 31 2802. A similar specimen. The growth is traversed by partitions which divide it into many round masses. The tunica albuginea is thickened, and the opposite surfaces of the tunica vaginalis are adherent. xxviii. 12 2803. A Testicle, with a portion of the abdominal walls. The place of the testicle _ is occupied by a soft, brown medullary substance. The tunica vaginalis communicated with the cavity of the abdomen. xxviii. 40 From the same patient as No. 2291 in Scries XXTV, and No. 2219 in Series XXI.