DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 223 of but two cusps; they are thickened and studded on their inner surface with calcareous plates. The mitral valves are much thickened, adherent, partially covered by an irregular calcareous mass, and the orifice only admits the tip of one finger. The valves on the right side are normal. The heart is hypertrophied to a moderate degree, and the left auricle is greatly dilated. The specimen was taken from a man, aged 59 years, who was admitted to the Hospital with symptoms of morbus cordis, from which be had suffered for six months. No history of a "* strain " or severe work was obtained. There was a systolic murmur at the apex, a systolic murmur at the base conducted along the large arteries, and a diastolic murmur in the same situation. The patient died suddenly, a few days after his admission.—See Mark Ward Book, vol. viii, p. 207, and Post Mortem Book, vol. vii, p. 140. 1469. A dissecting Aneurism of an Aorta, which is obliterated at the point where it is joined by the ductus arteriosus. The heart is small but there is considerable concentric hypertrophy of the left ventricle. There are only two cusps to the aortic valve, and the commencement of the aorta is enormously dilated. About half an inch above the semilunar valves is a transverse rent in the inner coats of the aorta about an inch long: a finger inserted through which passes into a large cavity between the outer and middle coats of the artery. The aortic arch gives off four branches, the first and second being the innominate and left carotid ; the third a ramifying artery to the neck ; the last,—the left subclavian,— arising immediately above the obliteration. The arch and all its branches are dilated and atheromatous. Below the obliterated spot the aorta is at first conical, but soon is expanded to its normal diameter. The intercostal arteries are largely dilated. The ductus arteriosus is ligamentous. A small glass rod has been passed through a valvular opening immediately below the obliteration into a minute canal in the duct, which has been laid open; it did not com- municate with the pulmonary artery. The pericardium is turned back with the thymus (which was persistent) still attached. The cavity of the pericardium was found filled with coagulated and fluid blood. There is a vertical rent about half an inch long through the outer coat of the intra-pericardial portion of the aorta, which leads into the cavity between the coats spoken of above, and is almost opposite the rent through the inner coats. The separation of the coats extends almost around the aorta as high as the origin of the innominate. The innominate, right carotid, and subclavian arteries are stained with blood which was extravasated into their sheaths. Both internal mammary arteries were much enlarged. The parts were taken from a man, aged 20 years, who was brought dead to the Hospital, having been found in the streets by the police.—See Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. xxix, p. 65. ANEURISM OF PARTICULAR ARTERIES. ANEURISM OF THE ARCH OF THE AORTA. 1470. Aneurismal dilatation of one of the Aortic Sinuses. A piece of glass is placed in the corresponding coronary artery, which is natural. 1471. Heart of a man, aged 32 years, whose right subclavian artery was tied for axillary aneurism (see No. 1515), and who died of pyromia twenty clays after the operation. In each of the sinuses of Valsava, behind the aortic valves, is an aneurismal pouch. The coats of the vessel are uniformly dilated over these pouches, and are very thin. See Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. xxiii, 1872, p. 74. 1472. The commencement of an Aorta. Immediately above the semilunar valves a large aneurismal sac projects from the aorta. It is partially within the pericardium, and compresses the superior vena cava, which is occluded by