SERIES LVIL DRAWINGS * OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. DISEASES OF BONES. 1. Atrophy of the Femur, with bending and partial fracture of the shaft, accom- panying disease of the knee-joint. (T. Godart.) The specimen is preserved in Series I, No. 8. 2. Head of a maniac with enlargement and distortion of the cranium, resulting from the deposition of bony matter between the tables of the skull. 3. Diffuse Suppuration in the Medullary Tissue of the stump of a femur. Phlebitis also existed. 4. Section of a Tibia from a lad, aged 19 years; its cancellous tissue was infiltrated with pus, and in places of a deep claret colour, from congestion. The surface of the entire shaft was white and bare. (T. Godart.) 5. Section of a Tibia affected with Osteo-myelitis. Its vascularity is increased throughout. (T. Godart.) From a boy, aged 8 years, who was admitted with acute inflammation of the tibia, and died of pyseinia. 5 a. Section of a Femur which has undergone enlargement and sclerosis from chronic inflammation. The modelling of the various layers is not yet complete, the line of the original shaft being still plainly visible. (T. Godart.) 5b. A Tibia similarly affected, but the modelling process is complete, and all trace of the line of the original shaft is lost. (T. Godart.) The Specimen is preserved in Series I, No. 103. 5c. Section of a Femur, removed by amputation at the hip-joint. Nearly the whole shaft had perished ; and before the operation the bone had undergone so- called spontaneous fracture ; but at no time, either before or after the operation, could any trace of suppuration be discovered. (T. Godart.) The Specimen is preserved in Series I, No. 167. 5d. Section of a Femur, of which a large portion of the shaft has perished. There is no cloaca in the layer of periosteal new-bone surrounding the sequestrum. (T. Godart.) 5e. Section of a Tibia, showing a precisely similar condition, presumed to have * All the following Drawings, to which no name is attached, were executed by Mr. William Henry Delamotte, Librarian.