517 URINARY CALCULI. surrounded by loosely cohering and cracked Uric Acid. External layer, Phos- phate of Ammonia and Magnesia, with a small quantity of Phosphate of Lime. From the bladder of a man on whom the operation of lithotrity had been performed several years before death. There were eleven calculi of the same kind. Presented by Thomas Wormald, Esq. 22. Calculi from a Urinary Bladder. The two larger, chiefly composed of rather loosely aggregated Uric Acid, were removed by the operation of lithotomy. The first was crushed in the extraction. The second, extracted entire, is in the shape of a three-sided pyramid, the base and sides of which are all smoothly flattened. The fragments of the first indicate that it may have had nearly the same shape. At the operation it was thought unlikely that such a shape would be acquired, unless more than two calculi were present, and subject to mutual contact and friction. Long search was, therefore, made for others ; but none existed, except two minute rough portions, which could have had no share in shaping the larger calculi that were extracted. The patient was 51 years old. He had suffered, at times severely, for eight years before the operation, and died on the fourth day after it. 23. Three smooth and flattened Calculi. Uric Acid, nearly pure; Nucleus crys- talline. From the bladder of a man 64 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle. Nine calculi were extracted at the operation, and thirty small ones from the kidney after death. 24. Calculi of Uric Acid. Presented by the Rev. G-. Henslow. 25. Sections of a Calculus. Uric Acid, nearly pure. From the bladder of a boy 12 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Yincent. 26. Calculi composed of nearly pure Uric Acid. From the bladder of an elderly man, which is preserved in Series XXIX, No. 2398. The small portions at the lower part of the bottle were broken in an operation of lithotrity by Mr. Stanley. The larger calculus, which has been divided vertically, lay in a deep recess of the bladder behind the prostate, and was not detected by the instruments. 27. Five large portions of Calculus passed through the urethra. Compact Uric Acid. Lithotrity by Mr. Yincent. 28. Fragments of a Calculus. Uric Acid. From the bladder of a man, 25 years old, after lithotrity by Mr. Stanley. The largest of the fragments became impacted in the spongy portion of'the urethra some days after the operation of crushing, and was removed by operation. 29. Fragments of a Calculus. Impure Uric Acid. From the bladder of a man 60 years old. Lithotrity by Mr. Stanley. 30. Fragments of a Calculus. Impure Uric Acid. , From the bladder of a man 60 years old. Lithotrity by Mr. Stanley. 31. Fragments of a Calculus. Chiefly Uric Acid. From the bladder of a man 45 years old. Lithotomy by Sir Wm. Lawrence. CALCULI HAYING TWO LAYERS. URIC ACID. URATE OF AMMONIA. 32. Sections of a Calculus. Uric Acid, surrounded by a thin coating of Urate of Ammonia.