PERICARDIUM AND OF THE HEART. 201 From a woman, aged 45 years, who died suddenly.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. iii, case 371. 1344. Portion of the Heart of an adult. The mitral valve and its tendinous cords are greatly thickened, opaque, shortened, and nearly rigid. The aortic valves are thickened, and united by their adjacent edges, so that only a very small circular aperture was left between them for the passage of the blood. The walls of the left ventricle are of their natural thickness, but the fleshy columns connected with the mitral valve are hypertrophied. XII. 49 1345. Aortic Valves, two in number, thickened and contracted, without material displacement. 40 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1346. An Aortic Yalve having only two cusps. These are adherent to their adjacent margins, their tissue is thickened, and in parts converted into a calcareous mass. 37 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1347. An Aortic Yalve, with only two cusps, both of which are made com- pletely rigid by thickening and induration of their tissue, and by abundant deposit of earthy matter. One of the masses of earthy matter is cut open : its interior is dark, soft, and broken clown, looking like a cavity in a carious tooth. The aortic orifice is reduced to a narrow crescentic fissure between the two valves. xn. 64 Presented by F. H. Colt, Esq. 1348. Part of an Aortic Yalve with only two cusps, both of which are thickened, and made rigid by deposits of earthy matter, parts of which project in coarsely granular masses on the arterial surface of the valves. Only a very narrow linear fissure remains between the cusps. xn. 67 1349. Part of an Aorta, of which the orifice is small, and the cusps thickened, opaque, united at their adjacent edges, and all made nearly rigid by deposits of earthy matter in them, and in parts of the arterial walls near their angles. Only a small aperture remains extending from the centre to the wall of the aorta, between the edges of two of the cusps. xn. 66 From an elderly gentleman who had cerebral disease, but manifested no distinct signs of disease of the heart. ° 1350. Portion of a Heart. The cusps of the aortic valve are adherent to one another, and converted into a hard, unyielding, calcareous ring, which projects into the aortic orifice, reducing it to an opening about three-eighths of an inch in diameter. Calcareous masses, continuous with the calcareous matter in the aortic valves, project on the inferior surface of the inner cusp of the mitral valve. The left ventricle is greatly hypertrophied. The aorta was athero- matous. From a man aged 43 years.—See Post Ilortem Book, vol. viii, p. 38. 1350a. Part of an Aorta, with its valves adherent by their margins, thickened opaque, and made quite rigid by deposits of earthy matter. A narrow central aperture alone remains for the communication of the ventricle with the aorta. xii. 15 1351. Part of a Heart, exhibiting the aortic valves thickened, opaque, and made rigid by the abundant deposit of earthy matter in them. The communication between the ventricle and the aorta is nearly closed by the diseased valves- a mere fissure is left between them, and the narrow nearly linear form of this fissure, as well as the general appearance and form of the valves, indicates