DISEASES OF BONES. 3 Complete fatty degeneration of all the muscles had taken place. See Medical Times and Gazette, April 4th, 1863. For other Specimens of Atrophy, see Series IT, No. 638, and Series III, Nos. 759 and 760, Series V, Nos. 1116, 1125, and Series L, No. 3217. ABSORPTION FROM PRESSURE. 14. The Base of a Skull from an elderly woman who appeared to have been long in the habit of wearing a plug to close an opening in the palate. The opening, gradually enlarging, attained such a size that nothing remains of the palatine portions of the superior maxillary and palate bones; and the alveolar border of the jaw is reduced to a very thin plate, without any trace of the sockets of the teeth. The antrum is on both sides obliterated by the apposition of its walls, its inner wall having probably been pushed outwards as the plug was enlarged to fit the enlarging aperture in the palate. Nearly the whole of the vomer also has been absorbed, and the superior ethmoidal cells are laid open. The plug is preserved : it is composed of a large circular cork, with tape wound round it, and measures an inch and three-quarters in diameter and am inch in depth. I. 232 The history of the patient is unknown. She was brought from a workhouse to the dissect- ing rooms, with the plug tightly and smoothly fitted in the roof of the mouth. (In Case E.) 15. A Section of four Dorsal and Lumbar Vertebrae, the bodies of which have been deeply hollowed out by absorption consequent on the pressure of an aneurism of the aorta. The surface of bone formed part of the aneurismal sac, and layers of fibrin still adhere to it. It will be observed, that the inter- vertebral fibro-cartilages and contiguous edges of the bones are entire. i. 55 16. Portion of a Spine in which there are several excavations upon the front and sides of the bodies of the eleventh and twelfth dorsal, and first lumbar vertebrae. These excavated surfaces formed part of the boundaries of an aneurism of the aorta. Around the excavations there are some deposits of new bone. i. 156 17. Lower Dorsal and upper Lumbar Vertebrae, showing the eroding effects produced by the pressure of an aortic aneurism. (In Case E.) Presented by Oke Clarke, Esq. INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND PERIOSTEUM AND ITS RESULTS* 'Hie following twelve preparations were obtained by a series of experiments per- formed by Mr. Stanley: see his work on Diseases of the Bones, Plates VIII and IX. NECROSIS OF THE SUPERFICIAL LAYER. 18. Section of the Tibia of a Dog, in which necrosis has been produced in the outer layers of a small portion of its wall. The dead bone is distinguishable by its yellow colour. The living bone around it is increased in vascularity, and * Syphilitic diseases of bone will be found in a separate section, p. 40. B2