133 INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 916. Portion of a Humerus, in which distinct fractures extend vertically through both its condyles into the elbow-joint. The fractured surfaces are united by fibrous tissue. 917. The external Condyle of a Humerus, which was completely detached in a TT F 1 2i{) compound fracture. The fracture was repaired without the supervention of any untoward symptoms; and the boy recovered a tree power of rotation, and a limited power of flexion and extension ot the arm. Vide Nos. 1033, Series IV. FRACTURES OF THE RADIUS AND ULNA. Olecranon. 918. An Elbow-Joint, exhibiting a transverse fracture extending through the base of the olecranon into the cavity of the joint. A portion of quill is passed between the ununited fractured surfaces. HI. 6 919. The bones of an Elbow-Joint, exhibiting a recent fracture of the lower part of the olecranon, extending into the interior of the joint. C. 65 (In Case H.) Shafts. 920. A Radius and Ulna, the former fractured about its middle, the latter at a corresponding point, and also at its lower third. The articular surface of the radius at the wrist is rough and irregular from the formation upon it of new bone, and a similar appearance is presented by the corresponding extremity of the ulna. c. 128 (In Case H.) 921. A Radius and Ulna, both of which have been fractured about three inches above their carpal ends. The ends of the bones overlap and have united in this position, with considerable shortening and deflection towards the ulnar side. c. 73 (In Case II.) 922. A Radius and Ulna. The radius has been fractured at the middle of its shaft. The ends of the bone, projecting forwards and inwards close to the ulna, have been smoothly united in this position. C. 62 (In Case H.) For other Specimens, see Nos. 749, 792, 818, 829, 837, and 1029, 1030, 1032, in Series IV. Lower Extremities of the Radius and Ulna. 923. Portions of a Radius and Ulna, showing fracture with extensive comminu- tion of their lower extremities. The fractures extend in several directions, both vertically and transversely; their position is indicated by bristles placed in the soft fibrous tissue by which they are united. in. 95 924. Parts of a Radius and Ulna, with adjacent carpal bones. The radius is fractured at its carpal extremity, the proximal portion of the bone being driven into the distal extremity, completely crushing it. The fracture extends in many places into the wrist-joint. The proximal portion of the shaft is displaced inwards, carrying with it the ulna; the latter bone is torn away from the triangular ligament to which the top of the styloid process remains attached. The scaphoid is broken across about its middle, and between the two fragments the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis brevior was firmly gripped, and is still held. From a man, aged 45, who died from other injuries five hours after admission into the Hospital. 925. The carpal extremities of a Radius and Ulna, showing a comminuted frac- ture of the former bone, extending into the wrist-joint. A very small amount