342 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE GALL-BLADDER AND BILIARY DUCTS. infiltrated lumbar glands. The duodenum was compressed and partially surrounded by it, and its walls were infiltrated with the new growth. A glass rod is placed in the common bile-duct, which is stained with bile : the cystic duct was obliterated. The stomach was enormously dilated, covering nearly the whole abdomen. Secondary deposits were found in the peritoneum, pleura, and surfaces of the lungs ; the abdominal organs were not involved in the disease. The specimen was taken from a woman aged 59 years. She had noticed an increasing swelling of her stomach for five years, but it had given her no inconvenience until about a month before her admission to the Hospital. A hard tumour was felt in the region of the liver. The patient was not jaundiced. Vomiting subsequently set in, and she died of cachexia and exhaustion.—See Hope Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 362 j Post Mortem Book, vol. vn, p. 137; and Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. xxxi, 1880. 2265. A Gall-Bladder exhibiting a growth of soft medullary substance from its linino- membrane. Except at the seat of this growth it appears healthy. & r xiv. 4 From the same man as No. 2222 in the preceding Series. 2266. A Gall-bladder, with a large growtb of soft medullary substance from the lining membrane of its neck. XIX- ^ Vide No. 2255. INJURIES. RUPTURE OF THE GALL-BLADDER. 2267. A Gall-Bladder, in which there is a rent about three-quarters of an inch lono-, extending through all its coats, close to its attachment to the liver. ° xix. 14 From a man 50 years old, who was kicked near the region of the liver while stooping. He died in fifteen hours. The gall-bladder appears to have been distended m consequence of the lodgment of a small calculus in its neck. Presented by James Noble, Esq. 2268. A portion of human Liver with the Gall-Bladder. In its fundus there is a rent through which the bile escaped into the cavity of the peritoneum. The injury was caused by a fall upon a piece of timber. The patient survived five weeks and died of peritonitis.