253 DISAESES AND INJURIES OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. portions of cartilage had become calcified. Tracheotomy was performed for the relief of dyspnoea. xxv- 9 The patient, a man between 40 and 50 years old, had been profusely salivated for syphilitic disease. After this, dyspnoea and other signs of obstruction in the larynx gradually increased for a month; and when they had been for several days extremely severe, an opening was made through the cricoid cartilage and the first ring of the trachea. The patient lived eight days, and died with pleurisy. The case is related by Sir Wm. Lawrence, m the Medico-Ltururgicat Transactions, vol. vi, p. 223. London, 1815. Vide also Nos. 1640, 1611,1643, 1644. AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX IN TYPHOID FEVER. 1640. A Larynx. Immediately behind the posterior attachment of each true vocal cord there is an oval ulcerated aperture, leading into a cavity formed by the separated perichondrium, and containing the necrosed arytamoid cartilages, bathed in pus. The cavity on the right side is laid open to show the necrosed arytenoid cartilage. The larynx presents no other abnormal appearances. From a man, aged 36 years, who died of exhaustion from typhoid fever, on the fifty-third day of his illness, lie was progressing favourably, when, a fortnight before his death, (lie temperature again rose, but uo laryngeal symptoms were observed. On post-mortem examina- tion the intestinal ulcers were found to be healing.—See Matthew Ward Book, vol. vh, p. 194; Post Mortem Book, vol. xii, p. 233. 1641. A precisely similar specimen. From a female, aged 27 years, who died of typhoid fever on the twenty-fourth day of her illness. She was progressing fairly well until three days before her death, when hoarseness of the voice was noticed. On the day preceding her death she complained of pain in the throat ; dyspnoea came on, and she died exhausted. On post mortem examination some oedema of the arytamo-epiglottidean folds was observed. Healing appeared to have commenced in the intestinal ulcers.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. v, p. 218; also, an account of this case, the preceding, and No. 1643, by Mr. Eve, in the Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xxxi, 1880. AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX IN VARIOLA. 1642. The Larynx and Trachea of a patient who died with small-pox. Lymph is thinly deposited over the surface of the mucous membrane. xxv. 13 1643. A Larynx, showing perichondritis as a sequela of Small-pox. A consider- able extent of the upper margin and posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage is hi id bare by the separation of the infiltrated and discoloured perichondrium. The arytamoid cartilages are necrosed, and lie loose within the separated peri- chondrium ; the crico-arytenoid articulation is destroyed. A small oval ulcer close to the posterior attachment of the vocal cords on either side leads into the cavity beneath the perichondrium. The arytamo-epiglottidean folds are swollen, as is also the epiglottis. The mucous membrane of the larynx and of the trachea is injected. Immediately beneath the cricoid cartilage a tracheotomy opening is seen. The specimen was taken from a man recovering from a bad attack of unmodified confluent small-pox. Laryngeal symptoms were first observed shortly after the subsidence of the secondary fever, on the twenty-first day from the commencement of his illness. Tracheotomy was per- formed for the relief of dyspnoea, but the patient died on the second day afterwards. Presented by Mr. Strugnell. 1644. A Larynx and Trachea. Just above the vocal cords there is a fistulous ulcer beneath the mucous membrane of the back of the larynx, in front of the arytamoid cartilages. Part of its course is marked by a bristle. The mucous membrane coveriug the whole of the larynx and trachea is thickened, and rough on its internal surface, as if by a thin deposit of lymph. Near the attachment of the epiglottis are several small superficial ulcers. The arytamoid cartilages have disappeared. They were probably necrosed, and fell out from the abscess cavities. XXY The patient died with small-pox.