422 DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COVERINGS, AND THE SPERMATIC CORD. CYSTS CONNECTED WITH THE TESTICLE AND EPIDIDYMIS. ENCYSTED HYDROCELE OF THE TESTICLE. 2804. An Encysted Hydrocele of the Testicle; the cyst is nearly as large as a hazel nut, and situated in the usual position, close to the head of the epididymis. The cyst contained a clear watery fluid, in which some small cells were visible, but no spermatozoa were found. There was also a small hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. The testicle was soft and ill-developed. 2805. A similar specimen. xxviii. 41 2806. A Testicle, with part of the Spermatic Cord. Along the epididymis there is a series of thin and delicate membranous cysts communicating together, and having for their boundary the tunica vaginalis at its reflection between the testicle and epididymis. They contained a transparent and colourless fluid. A bristle is passed beneath the vas deferens near its connection with the epididymis. xxviii. 43 2807. A right Testicle, with the Spermatic Cord. There is a large cyst immediately above the testicle, and closely connected with the epididymis. Other smaller cysts lay between the testicle and epididymis, and in the substance of the epididymis; the fluid within the latter contained abundant spermatozoa, but none were found in the large cyst. The cavity of the tunica vaginalis was slightly distended with fluid. The fundus of a large hernial sac extends down the cord as far the upper part of the testicle; it appears to have been a funicular hernia. Sections of the epididymis showed under the microscope an irregular dilatation of some of the tubuli, suggesting the origin of the cysts from dilated ducts. Taken from the body of a man, aged 90 years. 2808. The left Testicle, taken from the same patient as the preceding. There is a similar large encysted hydrocele of the testicle, which contained spermatozoa. The epididymis also contained small cysts, and some of the ducts were found with the microscope to be dilated. A small hydatid of Morgagni existed on the head of the epididymis of both testicles. 2809. A Testicle, with the Tunica Vaginalis. There are several very thin- walled cysts of different sizes communicating with each other, and nearly surrounding the upper and anterior part of the testicle ; none of them appear to communicate with the tunica vaginalis, but some of the smaller cysts are closely connected with the epididymis. xxviii. 3 2810. Slightly opalescent Fluid, containing an abundance of spermatozoa. From a hydrocele of the testis. xxviii. 72 ####### PEDUNCULATED BODIES ATTACHED TO THE EPIDIDYMIS. 2811. A Testicle, with a pedunculated body attached to the head of the epididy- mis, the hydatid of Morgagni. DISEASES OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. TUMOURS, &c. 2812. An elongated, lobed, fatty Tumour, removed, after death, from the loose connective tissue of a spermatic cord. xxxv. 66