V '> ViNJURIES OF JOINTS, DISLOCATIONS, ETC. \ ,V 147 (In Case II.) have been produced by the violent impact of the bead against this prominent rim, on which it probably lodged. From a man, aged 36 years, who was knocked down by a train whilst at work on the line. On admission he was found to have a sub-coraeoid dislocation of the right shoulder, in addition to numerous other injuries, from which he died about twelve hours after the accident. The head of the right humerus could be distinctly felt beneath the coracoid process ; the axis of the bone was directed considerably outwards and backwards. Reduction was effected extremely easily on slight traction being made in the usual manner.—See Colston Ward Book, vol. v, P: 416. The case is described by Mr. Eve, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. lxiii, 1880, p. 317. There is a drawing of the specimen, No. 55. 1020. A right Shoulder-Joint, exhibiting an unreduced sub-coracoid dislocation of the humerus of long standing. The head of the humerus, with a great part of its cartilage removed, and its articular surface hardened, rests on the antei'ior surface of the scapula, with a thick layer of fibrous tissue intervening between it and the latter bone. It is directly below, and nearly in contact with, the the coracoid process, just on the inner side of the glenoid cavity, but not below its level: the axillary artery and brachial plexus of nerves are close to it on its anterior and inner aspect. The infra-spinatus, teres minor, and sub-scapnlaris muscles are shown retaining; their natural connections with the head of the humerus. A part of the capsule also is shown. The glenoid cavity retains its natural forcn, but its articular cartilage is thin and has numerous shreds, appa- rently of fibrous tissue, upon it. in. 112 The body was brought to the dissecting rooms, and no history could be obtained. Specimen No. 1051 was taken from the same body. A drawing is preserved, No. 56; and a cast, No. 37. 1021. A Shoulder-Joint with the shaft of the Humerus, exhibiting dislocation and fracture. The head of the humerus is thrown forwards beneath the coracoid process. The tendons of the long head of the biceps, of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, and sub-scapularis muscles are entire. There have been two fractures in the shaft of the bone, and they are both firmly united. in. 47 The injury consisted, in the first instance, of the dislocation and a single fracture. No at tempt was made to reduce the dislocation, and when the fracture had united, the patient fell down, and sustained the second fracture. 1022. A Shoulder-Joint, in which a dislocation of the Humerus occurred long before death, and was not reduced. The head of the humerus rested on the anterior surface of the scapula, and on the anterior margin of the glenoid cavity, just below the coracoid process. Tough ligamentous tissue has been formed on the scapula, beneath the head of the humerus, and a new fibrous capsule surrounded it. The surface of the glenoid cavity is covered by similar fibrous tissue, and that part of the head of the humerus which was in contact with its anterior margin has been absorbed. The tendons of the biceps, supra- spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, and sub-scapularis muscles are all shown retaining their proper attachments. m. 118 1023. A Scapula and Humerus. The bead of the humerus appears to have been dislocated forwards, and to have remained long unreduced just beneath the coracoid process, on the anterior surface and neck of the scapula. A concave surface has been here formed, on which the head of the humerus rested. The pressure of the posterior part of the head of the humerus against the anterior margin of the glenoid cavity, has caused them both to be partially absorbed; and the remaining edge of the glenoid cavity, fitting in the recess in the bead of the humerus, forms a kind of new joint between them. c. 27