480 ANATOMY OF STUMPS AFTER AMPUTATION OF LIMBS. The bones are evenly united, and the cut extremities of the tendons are firmly adherent to the bones at the extremity of the stump.—Vide Nos. 3211, 3213. ATROPHY OF THE BONES OF STUMPS. Vide Nos. 3 and 5, Series L EXCESSIVE FORMATION OF NEW BONE AROUND THE STUMP. 3195. A portion of Femur, which formed the extremity of a stump. Its lower end is enlarged, condensed, and the medullary canal is filled up; the surface is roughened by deposit of new bone, which is perforated by two small apertures leading into cavities containing necrosed bone. The patella is adherent to the extremity of the bone. Primary amputation was performed two years before the removal of the specimen. 3196. Portion of a Femur, which formed the extremity of a stump after ampu- tation of the thigh by rectangular flaps. Around the extremity there is a copious deposit of new bone. A portion appears to have been detached by an oblique fracture, drawn upwards, and subsequently anchylosed. a. 163 3197. The remaining portion of the Femur of the man from whom the preceding specimen was taken. The extremity exhibits a return of the same disease which became apparent within a few months after the last operation. The bone was removed by amputation at the hip joint, and the man died. A. 165 3198. Portions of a Tibia and Fibula from a Stump. The fibula is united to the tibia by ossification of the interosseous ligament. An irregular deposit of new bone has taken place on the external surface of both bones for a considerable distance above their extremities. 1- 144 CARIES. 3199. The upper half of the right Femur and Acetabulum of a man, aged 35, who died five weeks after amputation through the middle of thigh. The portion of the femur was bare. It has a worm-eaten appearance from ulceration, and there are considerable exfoliations partially separated. The lower portion is invested by new bone. The sawn extremity was in process of separation, and where the line of demarcation appears there is greater abundance of new bone, especially in one spot, where it forms a considerable outgrowth. The entire acetabulum is carious, and its floor is perforated. The man had been employed for many years in arsenic and copper works. The limb was removed for inflammation of the lower part of the femur. No arsenic could be detected in the diseased bone. A. 170 NECROSIS. 3200. Portion of the Shaft of a Humerus separated by exfoliation, after Necrosis following amputation. l- 164 The patient was a middle-aged man. The amputation was performed on account of a com- pound fracture. 3201. Portion of the Femur from a stump. A circle of bone at the extremity of the stamp has separated after necrosis. A considerable deposit of new bone has taken place upon the surface of the femur, and forms a thick ring above the part from which the dead portion separated. I. 155 3202. A portion of the Shaft of the right Femur in a state of necrosis, from a man ao-ed 24, whose thigh was amputated in its lower third twelve months previously, in consequence of a severe injury to the leg. The wound healed favourably, but while moving about a few weeks after the operation he fell and struck the stump. From that time the limb became painful, and the extremity