DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LAEYNX AND TRACHEA. 256 From a man, aged 63 years. Laryngeal symptoms had existed for about six months. Death took place after the performance of tracheotomy for the relief of dyspnoea. A microscopic examination of the tumour showed the ordinary characters of cancer.—See Pitcairn Ward Book, vol. iii, p. 271. SPECIMENS ILLUSTRATING TRACHEOTOMY AND LARYNGOTOMY. 1659. A Larynx and Trachea, on which the operation of tracheotomy had been performed a long time before death. A fistulous aperture remains.—Vide also Nos. 1612, 1618, 1621, 1629, 1632, 1635, 1639, 1643, 1658. xxv. 37 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE AIR-PASSAGES. 1660. The Lar}Tnx of a child 3 years old, who was suffocated by a pill lodging just beneath the vocal cords. Small portions of the pill lie loose at the bottom of the bottle, but the greater part of it has been dissolved by the alcohol; the mucous membrane is stained by it. xxv. 26 1661. A small rounded piece of cancellous Bone, rather larger than a pea; it is extremely light and the surface is slightly rough. It was coughed up by a gentleman twenty-three days after it had passed into the air passages. "While eating some veal he choked and afterwards felt a sensation " as if something were sticking somewhere," although he could swallow with ease. He passed a bad night suffering much from difficulty in breathing. In travelling to town next morning to consult a surgeon, the shaking of the railway carriage much relieved him. A distinguished surgeon, whom he consulted, told him that the bone had probably passed down, but that he seemed to have a cold. During the next week he suffered " as from asthma, the want of breath causing acute pain in mounting stairs." Lying on the right side invariably increased the wheezing and brought on coughing. Twice he had violent convulsive fits of coughing. Treatment was directed to the bronchitis which existed, but without relief. The cough became more trouble- some, and he could keep nothing on the stomach. After passing a very bad night, he "with one cough brought up the piece of bone," experiencing immediately perfect relief.—See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xvi, 1880. Presented by Dr. Gee. 1662. A Plum-stone which was removed from the trachea of a girl. xxv. 34 INJURIES OF THE LARYNX. 1663. A Larynx and Os Hyoides, partially separated by a transverse incised wound, which was the cause of death. xxv. 32 1664. The Larynx and adjacent parts of a man who was brought to the Hospital dead, having received a severe blow on the front of the neck. The larynx, with the anterior third of the cricoid cartilage, is torn from its connection with the posterior portion of the cricoid, which is still attached to the trachea. The torn edge of the mucous membrane is folded over the orifice of the trachea.