4 19 DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. 2966. A Uterus, laid open, showing a Polypus growing from its interior near the fundus. xxxii. 71 2967. The Uterus of a woman, from the substance of which several Fibrous Tumours, of various sizes spring. To the upper part of the cavity, which is laid open, a polypus, probably mucous, is attached, which, hanging down, occupies the whole of the interior. FIBROUS POLYPI. 2968. A sessile Fibrous Polypus, attached to the lowest part of the body of the uterus. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 2969. A Uterus, with a Fibrous Polypus. The form of the tumour makes it pro- bable that it is composed of two fibrous tumours, which were developed in the wall of the uterus, and protruded into its cavity enveloped by a part of the uterine Avail, which now forms the pedicle or neck attaching them to its fundus. The larger portion of the tumour lay in the vagina. xxxii. 9 2970. A Uterus, having attached to its partially inverted fundus a true Fibrous Polypus, the body of which is in the vagina. Similar tumours of smaller size have formed, some near the peritoneal surf ace, and others in the substance of the uterus. The vessels of the uterus have been injected, and the injection has entered the tumours. xxxii. 32 2971. A large Fibrous Polypus of the Uterus. Its pedicle passes through the cervix. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 2972. A Uterus, with a firm Fibrous Polypus, attached to the upper wall of its cavity. A ligature was placed around the neck of the polypus eight days before the patient's death. Fatal peritonitis followed. The portion of the polypus below the ligature is intensely congested, and a portion of its surface has sloughed. XXXIL y4 The patient, an elderly woman, had been greatly reduced by haemorrhage from the polvuus previous to the application of the ligature. v A Drawing is preserved, No. 508. 2973. A Uterus, with a very large intra-uterine sessile Fibroid, attached by a base ot nearly two inches m diameter, to the fundus and side-wall of its cavity and thence extending into the vagina. Ulceration has taken place on the most dependent part of the polypus. The walls of the uterus are dilated and thickened around it. -, XXXII. jl\J 2974. A fibrous Uterine Polypus. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 2975. A Uterus from which a Fibrous Polypus was removed by ligature eight days before death A circular ulcer, about half an inch in diameter, in the fundus of the cavity of the uterus, marks the part from which the polypus sloughed. The whole of the tissue of the uterus is swollen. xxxii. 24 The patient, a middle-aged woman, died with acute inflammation of the uterine veins 29Jf'Jhfe UterUS' °Pen' °f \woman> aSed 35, in the interior of which, near the centre, is seen the remains of a pedicle, from which a Fibrous Polypus was removed by excision. She died of peritonitis five days after the operation XXXII /^t) DIFFUSE FIBROUS HYPERTROPHY. 2977. Enormous fibrous hypertrophy of the body of a Uterus, without change of shape. There was a cancerous mass in the recto-vaginal space. g 2 a