INJURIES OF JOINTS, DISLOCATIONS, ETC. 151 portion of the posterior part of the rim of the acetabulum, m the presumed direction of the dislocation, is separated by fracture. Upon the front part ot tlu- joint there is also a detached portion of the rim of the acetabulum connected with the capsule. The surface of this piece of bone is very smooth, and is adapted to a corresponding surface of the ilium immediately below the anterior inferior spine; and above this surface there is a deposit of bone, making it probable that the changes in this part of the joint were the result of some injury previous to the dislocation. m- D° 1038. A Dislocation of the Right Hip. The head of the femur is seen lying on the body of the ischium and ischial margin of the acetabulum, on a level with the lesser ischiatic notch. The sciatic nerve passes over the head of the bone, which is bound down by the obturator internus: the tendon of this muscle passes across the horizontal diameter of the head. The gemellus inferior is torn across; this is the only muscle which is torn or lacerated. The gemellus superior is absent. The whole of that portion of the margin of the acetabulum which is formed by the ischium is broken off and pushed above the head of the femur. The pyriformis muscle is raised up and put on the stretch by this fragment of bone. The rough fractured surface of the ischium is partly covered by the head of the femur and partly exposed to view. The qnadratus femoris is reflected, exposing the obturator externus, which tightly embraces the posterior and lower surfaces of the neck of the femur. A small extent of the lower and back part of the capsule is torn across: the upper and back part is intact and attached to the uptorn margin of the acetabulum: the inferior portion covering the cotyloid notch is also nntorn. The ilio-femoral ligament and the upper part of the capsule are intact; the former presents an oval opening through which the bursa under the psoas communicated with the joint. The specimen was taken from a middle-aged man who was brought into the hospital dead. He threw himself out of a window and fractured the base of his skull, besides dislocating his femur. The right leg was somewhat longer than the left: the thigh was adducted and rotated inwards: the knee was slightly flexed and rested on the lower third of the left thigh; the right great toe rested on the ball of the left great toe. This case, and the case from which specimen No. 1036 were taken, are described by Mr. Eve in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. lxiii, 1880, p. 51. There is a drawing of the specimen, No. 58. 1039. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting a direct dislocation of the head of the Femur downwards and backwards, which occurred twelve hours before death. The head of the bone is situated on the ischium, opposite to the lesser ischiatic notch and the upper part of the tuberosity. The tendon of the obturator in- ternus is torn from its muscular fibres ; some of the fibres of the pyriformis, gemelli, and gluteus minimus are also torn. The inferior portion of the capsule is intact. A fracture passes through the junction of the pubis with the ilium, the anterior margin of the acetabulum and the ischium in front of the tube- rosity. From the situation of the rent in the capsule, it is evident that the dislocation occurred directly backwards, below the tendon of the obturator internus. in. 56 The patient was a maniac, who leaped from a third story window. He died of other injuries received at the same time. The case is published by Mr. Worruald in the London Medical Gazette, vol. xix, p. 657. London, 1837. 1040. A Hip-Joint, in which a dislocation of the head of the Femur upon the ischiatic notch occurred about three weeks before death. The ligameutum teres has been torn across its middle; no union of it has taken place. The cartilage covering the head of the bone is in part absorbed. The opening in the capsule through which the head of the bone escaped was situated at the posterior part of the joint. Slight union had taken place about the middle of the rent. Tho