INJURIES OF JOINTS, DISLOCATIONS, ETC. 154 CONGENITAL DISLOCATION. 1050. The Pelvis and Femora of an adult female. The head of each femur is dislocated upon the dorsum of the ilium. Portions of the capsules of the hip- joints remain, but there is no vestige of either ligamentum teres. There has been absorption of the surface of the head of each femur, diminishing its size, and giving it an irregular conical form. On the dorsum of each ilium there is an oblong roughened patch, produced by friction of the heads of the thigh- bones in walking. The acetabula are represented by two small triangular cavities. There is considerable lordosis of the spine. b. 48 The dislocations were probably congenital, but the history of the case is not known. (In Case II.) DISLOCATION OF THE PATELLA. OUTWARDS. 1051. A Knee-Joint, of which the patella was dislocated outwards long before death, and was not reduced. The patella rests on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur, on which, in adaptation to it, a small articular surface has been formed by a layer of very dense and polished ligamentous tissue. The tendon of the quadriceps femoris lies on the outer side of the femur, and the ligamentum patellae is directed slightly inwards as well as downwards towards the tibia, which has been rotated outwards, following the displacement of the patella. All the articular cartilages have been more or less deeply removed: the surfaces of the bones are in several places exposed, hard, and polished, and their margins are nodulated. in. HI A cast of the specimen is preserved, No. 49. DISLOCATIONS OF THE ASTRAGALUS. 1052. An Astragalus, which had been dislocated forwards, upwards, and a little outwards, with compound fracture of the external malleolus, and displacement of the foot inwards. It was excised on the tenth day after the accident. in. 131 The limb was proceeding favoiorably, the wound being nearly closed, when the patient, aged 61, died of delirium tremens on the thirtieth day. 1053. A Dislocated Astragalus, which was removed by operation ten days after the accident. m- 121 The astragalus was dislocated forwards and outwards from the tibia, and its connections with tlie tarsus were also severed : the foot was displaced inwards. There was no fracture of the fibula. The dislocation, which was a compound one, was reduced ; but extensive suppura- tion followed, and the astragalus, becoming again displaced, and presenting itself at an external wound, was removed. Subsequently, a considerable portion of the ligaments connected with it sloughed ; but, a month after the injury, the case was making favourable progress. Vide No. 1010, Series III. DISLOCATIONS OF THE DIGITS. 1054. The first and second Phalanges of a Great Toe. The second phalanx is dislocated, and firmly united by bone to the upper surface of the first phalanx. m- 61 1055. The Bones of a Great Toe. The second phalanx, dislocated on the upper surface of the first phalanx, has there become firmly fixed by bone. ill. 57