308 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE INTESTINES. collapse in about three hours. On dissection it was found that the transverse colon had been drawn down in the shape of a V, by a piece of omentum that was adherent to the sac of an old left femoral hernia. The colon thus displaced had, on the occurrence of obstruction at the sigmoid flexure, become enormously distended, and at length the softened coats had given way by a large, thin-edged ulcer, through which fa?cal matter bad freely escaped into the peritoneal cavity.—See St. Bartholomevfs Hospital Reports, vol. iv, p. 262 ; Post Mortem Book, 1867, p. 14. 2024. Portion of a Colon, with Medullary Tumours projecting into its cavity. The largest of these growths forms a broad band round the whole interior of the intestine, and must have almost completely obstructed the canal. Its texture is broken and flocculent. The adjacent walls of the intestine are thickened, but their texture does not appear altered. xvi. 25 2025. Portion of the Sigmoid Flexure of a Colon, presenting^ an annular con- striction, at which its canal is reduced to a quarter of an inch in diameter. The constriction occupies about half an inch of the length of the canal; on its exterior it is marked by a drawing inwards of the wall of the intestine, as if a cord had been tied round it; the mucous membrane is slightly raised and villous. A piece of omentum is adherent to the exterior of the intestine at the strictured part; and all the tissues engaged in it appear indurated and confused. xvi. 98 2026. Portion of a Jejunum, with several small, disk-shaped, masses of medul- lary substance projecting into its canal from the sub-mucous tissue, in which they appear to have their origin. They are covered by mucous membrane. J rr xvi. 19 2027. A Mass of New Growth, probably malignant, surrounding the small intestine and adjacent portion of the caecum. 127 From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2028. Portion of a Colon. In the greater part of its extent, the sub-mucous coat is from one to two lines in thickness, and of close fibrous texture, elevating the mucous membrane into irregular folds. The section of the muscular coat exhibits numerous white bands intersecting a dense greyish structure, the surface of which has a somewhat glistening aspect. xvi. 23 Taken from the same patient as the scirrhous cancer, No. 1923, in Series XVII. COLLOID CANCER. 2029'. An Ileo-csecal Valve, with parts of the Caecum and ascending Colon. The several tissues forming the valve appear thickened and indurated with morbid deposit, which, in the recent state, had the characters of colloid cancer. The surface'of the mucous membrane is roughly ulcerated. Similar disease, in less degree, exists in the immediately adjacent walls of the caecum and colon. The aperture of the valve is an oval opening, about one quarter of an inch m diameter, apparently fixed in both size and form. xvi. 120 The patient was a woman 31 years old. The first signs of intestinal disease, con- sisting of frequently recurring severe spasmodic pains in the abdomen, were observed a month before death. Three weeks before death, constipation, which had not previously existed, began ; and it continued to the time of death. Presented by Mr. Dickinson. INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 2030. Portion of an Ileum, the cavity of which is distended by an oval biliary calculus, two inches and a half in length, and an inch and a half in diameter. The peritoneal coat of the distended part of the intestine is ruptured; and the other coats are thin and tense. xvi. 84