495 GENERAL PATHOLOGY. the optic nerve, and filling the greater portion of the inferior two-thirds of the vitreous chamber, the remaining third being filled with recent flocculent lymph. The cn-owtli consists of two lobes, in distinct portions, the smaller and posterior of these springing from the entrance of the optic nerve has driven the choroid before it, and perforating this has spread out into the vitreous chamber as tar forward as the posterior aspect of the lens. No trace of the retina remains. The lens was in its normal position, but has been lost. ix. oU The eye was removed from a boy, aged 10 yearn The disease had not attracted attention until seven weeks previous to the operation. LYMPHO-SAECOMA. 3298. Section of a soft brain-like Tumour, occupying the popliteal space. It is firmly attached to the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and infiltrates the substance of the hamstring muscles, but is not connected with the bones. The growth consists of very small closely-packed round cells, enclosed by trabecular of a dehcate connective tissue, having a more or less alveolar arrangement. The cells were about the size of white blood or lymph corpuscles. From a lad, aged 17 years, who was admitted to the Hospital with an elastic swelling in the popliteal space, which in its physical characters resembled a bursa. On puncture it was found to be a solid tumour, the size of a plover's egg, having the same characters as the above, and attached to the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The tumour was removed, the wound healed, and the patient left the Hospital, but returned two months after the operation with a recurrence of the growth and ulceration of the skin covering it. Amputation through the middle of the thigh was then performed. He died with a return of the disease in the pelvic and lumbar glands, a few months after the operation. The infiltrated glands were white, soft, and brain-like, and the microscopic characters of the growth exactly resembled that of the primai-y and recurrent tumours.—See Harley Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 22. Microscopic sections are preserved, Nos. 166, 167. SPINDLE-CELL SARCOMA (Recurring: Fibroid, Fibro-Plastic Tumours, &c). 3299. Section of a "recurring fibroid" Tumour (spindle-cell Sarcoma) re- moved from over a patella. It is many-lobed, and its lobes are separated by connective tissue, continuous with that which invests its whole mass. Its sub- stance is soft, uniform, close, without apparent texture ; it appears now opaque, nearly white, dimly shaded, brain-like ; but, in the recent state, was greyish and translucent, flickering like firm gelatine. Blotches of extravasated blood appear on parts of its cut surface. xxxv. 64 The patient was a healthy-looking man, 23 years old, and this was the third tumour of the kind removed from the same part. The first, which had been a year in progress, was removed in August, 1851 ; three months afterwards a second tumour appeared, which grew very quickly, and was removed in March, 1852; and two months after the healing of this second wound, this third tumour began to grow, and after seventeen months' growth was removed in November, 1853. The microscopic constituents of the growths were, a dimly-granular basis, or blastema, in which were imbedded abundant, large, clear nuclei, with nucleoli, and elongated spindle cells, with nuclei similar to those that were free. A drawing of the specimen, in its recent state, is preserved, No. 56. A fourth tumour, of the same kind and size, was removed in August, 1854, a fifth in April, 1855. 3300. Part of a "recurring fibroid" Tumour Cspindle-cell Sarcoma), removed after death from the front of a chest. It is composed of many loosely-con- nected lobes. In the recent state, it was described as of hard texture, like a fibrous tumour, yielding very little blood when cut into, but showing on its section the mouths of open vessels. After the action of spirit, it is milk-white firm, elastic, close-textured, breaking with a coarse, fibrous grain. xxxv. 80 In 1839, a tumour, which had been growing for a year over his right first rib, was removed from the patient from whom this specimen was taken. He was at the time 48 years old Two years after the operation another tumour appeared in or near the same part and was removed in 1843. A third was removed in 1847, a fourth in 1849, and a fifth in 1851. After each of the first four operations the patient recovered well, and had an interval of apparent freedom from disease. After the fifth, the wound ■ had scarcely healed when two tumours