DRAWfNGS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. 0»<5 39. Acute Synovitis of the Knee-Joint, with commencing disintegration of the cartilage of the internal condyle. (T. Godart.) 40. Pulpy degeneration of the Synovial Membrane of a Knee-Joint; there is (edematous thickening of the synovial membrane, which is brownish-red from congestion. 41. Lower Extremity of a Femur, showing irregular fragments of cartilage con- nected with the articular surfaces. After amputation for disease of the knee- joint. (T. Godart.) 42. Ulceration of the Articular Cartilage of the Femur from disease of the joint. (T. Godart.) 43. Left Lower Extremity of a child, after excision of the head and neck of the femur for disease. (T. Godart.) 44. A Cyst on the inner side of the Knee, of uncertain nature. (T. Godart.) 45. A Cyst on the inner side of the Popliteal Space, connected with disease of the knee-joint. (T. Godart.) See a paper by Mr. W. Morrant Baker, in the St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xiii, 1877, p. 245. INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTUEES). 46. Spontaneous Fractures of the Femora, united with deformity. They were produced by very slight forces, in a lad suffering with extreme general atrophy. (H. B. Dobell.) 47. Fracture of a Tibia, five weeks after the accident. Plates of new bone are formed in and beneath the periosteum, adjacent to the line of fracture, and in the new tissue in the angles between the fragments. (H. B. Dobell.) 48. Section of the same specimen. (H. B. Dobell.) 49. Fracture of the neck of the Femur, united partly by fibrous tissue, and partly by bone. The Specimen is preserved in Series III, No. 964. 50. Different drawings of the same Specimen as the preceding. 51. Sections of the head and neck of the opposite Femur from the same case as the preceding. They present the same appearances, but the line of fibrous tissue is uninterrupted by deposits of bone. The Specimen is preserved in Series III, No. 965. 52. Ununited fracture of a Humerus, six months after the accident; the ends of the bones are covered with granulations. The Specimen is preserved in Series III, No. 816. 53. Vesications and Ecchymosis, connected with a fracture of the olecranon, twenty hours after the injury. (T. Godart.) 54. Large Bullae containing blood-stained serum, forming after fracture of both bones of the leg, with considerable bruising of the soft parts. The bullce made their appearance in successive crops, between the fourth and eighth days from the injury. (T. Godart.) The fracture was repaired in the usual time; but the patient suffered for some weeks from eczema.