xiv SAINT BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL. At a Sub-Committee held on the 26th of May, 1828 :— * -Mr. Abernethy and Mr. Stanley having made a tender of the Preparations and all the other property in the Museum, to the Hospital, by the following document:— "We, the undersigned, engage to give up the Preparations, and all the^er proper^ m^e I Museum, to the President, Treasurer, and Almoners of ^^^ISfft preseteTe being, for the use of the Medical School, and we also pledge ourselTes carefully to^e^ same8 to keep the Preparations in a state of good preservation to supply ^^T^ZX decav in a manner adequate to the instruction of students m aU the facts of Anatomy usuaUy StodL^s manned, and to put up specimens of ^f^^^tT2 disease and accident which may be met with in the practice of the Hospital, so long as we tinue to teach Anatomy and Physiology in the school of the Hospital. We also engage - to mafce ^^^Tortt ZSSZSZZt Drawings which we may procure to those in the museum, in oruer ample and useful as possible. (1 jqjj^ ABERNETHY. « EDWARD STANLEY. "St. Babtholojiew's Hospital, " May 3, 1828." The Sub-Committee resolved as follows :— "We recommend that the care of the said Museum be confided here- after to the appointed teacher or teachers of Anatomy, who, from time to time shall communicate to the Medical Committee whatever alterations or additions may take place in the Collection; that it be centered as the dutv of such teacher or teachers to keep the Preparations m a good state of preservation, to supply new ones for those that decay and m a manner adequate to the instruction of students in all the facts of Anatomy ; and also to add new specimens of any interesting circumstances relative to diseases or injuries which may occur in the practice of the Hospital. « That the teachers are also to be required not to make any separate collection, but to add all the Preparations and Drawings to the said Museum • that the medical officers of the Hospital be requested carefully to inspect the Museum, and annually report their observations to the Medical Committee, as well as to the House Committee previous to the Midsummer General Court. The proceedings of this Sub-Committee were confirmed at the General Court of Governors, held July 23rd, 1828. . Extract, from the Reports of the Proceedings of General Courts and Committees of the Govern^ oTfte Hospitai, renting the Anatomical Museum and the Catalogue, thereof.