1% DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE adherent, and a few small vegetations are scattered along their margins. A firm, coloured, apparently ante-mortem clot, is lodged behind some tendinous cords at the upper and back part of the left ventricle. A similar clot, about the size of a filbert, was found free iD the left auricle; it is suspended by a thread. From a woman, aged 34 years, who was subject to rheumatism. On her admission she had dropsy and cyanosis. The murmurs were indistinct and variable. Death took place suddenly. — See Elizabeth Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 74. 1312. A Heart, exhibiting thickening, opacity, and rigidity of the tricuspid and mitral valves, with contraction of both the auriculo-ventricular orifices. The cavities of the auricles are dilated, and their membranous linings are thickened. The right auriculo-ventricular orifice would just admit the passage of the fore- finger ; the left would only admit the entrance of the tip of the same finger. xii. 44* 1313. A Heart, in which, by thickening and contraction of the mitral valve and its tendinous cords, the left auriculo-ventricular orifice is reduced to an irregular chink, about an inch long, and from one to two lines in width. On the auricular surface of the diseased valves there are also projections of earthy matter, and deposits of layers of fibrin. The lining membrane of the left auricle is thickened and opaque: so also are the tricuspid and pulmonary valves, and, in a much greater degree, the aortic valves. The pericardium was universally adherent, and in several places, especially on the anterior surface of the ventricles, portions of bone have been formed in the adhesions. Some of these have been exposed by dissection. The whole heart is enlarged, all its cavities being dilated and hypertrophied in nearly equal proportions. XII. 59 Jb rom a man 27 years old. He could not remember to have been ever free from signs of disease of the heart, but they were greatly aggravated after an attack of acute rheumatism. 1314. Section of a Heart, showing its general hypertrophy in consequence of disease of the mitral and tricuspid valves. All its cavities are dilated, and the walls of all are, in proportion, thickened by a growth of strong muscular tissue. The mitral and tricuspid valves are thick, opaque, and leathery, and their orifices are patent and contracted ; the orifice of the tricuspid having a nearly circular shape, that of the mitral, a narrow, crescentic shape. xii. 88 1315. Heart of a woman, aged 33 years. All the cavities of the heart are dilated, especially the auricles. Both appendices contained old, tough, colourless fibrin. The muscular walls are much indurated, but not greatly hypertro- phied. The tricuspid orifice is greatly narrowed by adhesion of contiguous edges of segments of the valve, so as to admit only the tip of the finger. The pulmonary valves are natural. The mitral orifice is greatly narrowed by adhesion of its cusps. The aortic valves are incompetent, thickened, narrowed, adherent by their edges; there are numerous minute vegetations along the edges. The right subclavian vein was occupied by an old decolorised thrombus. See Post Mortem Book, March 19, 1872. DISEASE OF THE PULMONARY VALVES. 1316. A Heart, in which there arc but two pulmonary semilunar valves, and both of these are covered with thick irregular layers of soft fibrin and vegetations, which are deposited in such quantity on the posterior valve, that they form a layer extending quite across the artery. On the internal wall of the artery there are several small wart-like bodies, which are firmly adherent to it; and behind the posterior valve, there is a circumscribed ulceration of the inner membrane. The rest of the heart, its other valves, and the large vessels, are healthy. xn. 55