284 DISEASES AND IXJURIES OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. state of ulceration, involving the whole circumference of the tube in its lower third. At one part the coats are entirely perforated, and the tube^ of the oesophagus communicated with an ulcerated cavity which lay in the tissue of the posterior mediastinum in contact with the right lung. No disease was found elsewhere. xxiv. 24 The case is described by Dr. Balyin the Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, vol. x, p. 165. 1849. The lower end of the (Esophagus and cardiac orifice of a Stomach, affected with cancer. The cardiac orifice is narrowed from the protrusion of the gastric wall by the new growth, and only admits the little finger. Secondary deposits of cancer were found in the liver, and the lumbar, bronchial, and cervical glands were infiltrated. From a man aged 40 years.—See Post Mortem Bool, vol. vii, p. 116. 1850. An (Esophagus and Stomach. The lower third of the oesophagus and a large portion of the stomach near its cardiac orifice are ulcerated through the whole thickness of their walls. The margins of the ulcers are sinuous, very abrupt and ragged, and present the general aspect of cancerous disease. xxiv. 4 1851. Portion of an (Esophagus and Stomach, showing a large cancerous ulcer extending for some distance above and below the cardiac orifice. • From a man, aged 54 years, in whom symptoms of the disease had existed for nine months before death.—See Pitcairn Ward Boole, vol. ii, p. 334. 1852. A Larynx, with part of the Trachea, Pharynx, and (Esophagus, from a man ao-ed 49 years. The specimen shows a large ulcer, two inches across, nearly "surrounding the gullet, possessing very thick cancerous margins, and opening into the trachea by an aperture the size of a sixpenny piece. It was on a level with the top of the manubrium sterni. xxv. 43 See Post Mortem Book, Case 246, July 27, 1871. 1853. Part of an (Esophagus, with the Trachea and Bronchi. Opposite the bifurcation of the trachea, the walls of the oesophagus are nearly surrounded by a firm cancerous growth. The surface of this growth, where it projects into the oesophagus, is ulcerated; and ulceration, penetrating at one part through its whole thickness, has extended into the right bronchus, in the course indicated by the piece of quill. xxiv. 3 1854. The (Esophagus and Cardiac Orifice of a Stomach, showing extensive can- cerous ulceration, and infiltration, and consequent narrowing of the oesophagus. An ulcerated perforation of the wall of the oesophagus at its lower end is seen, which led into a gangrenous patch in the base of the right lung. The cardiac end of the stomach is thickened and corrugated. Secondary deposits of medullary cancer were found in the liver, but the lymphatic glands of the abdomen and thorax were not enlarged. From a man aged 68 years—See Post Mortem Bool, vol. vii, p. 107. OTHER MORBID GROWTHS IN, AND AROUND THE 03SOPHAG-TJS. 1855. Part of an CEsophagus, in which nearly the whole of the submucous tissue is occupied by a substance resembling that of colloid cancer. In many places the mucous membrane is upraised, with a low tuberculated surface, by the colourless and nearly pellucid clustered cystic growths beneath it; and, at one part, a globular mass of the same structure, about two-thirds of an inch in diameter, is suspended from the sub-mucous tissue into the cavity of the oesophagus. xxiv. 19 Presented by Sir John Forbes.