460 DISEASES OF THE OVUM AND ITS MEMBRANES. 3054. Specimen showing the Hyperfcrophied Decidua Vera, with an Ovum like a flattened boy's marble attached to the fundus, and concealed by the decidua reflexa, which covers it. The case is described in Dr. Matthews Duncan's " Researches in Obstetrics." Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3055. Specimen showing an Ovum enveloped in decidua reflexa, and attached to the vera almost in a polypoid manner. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3056. An Ovum, at an early stage expelled with the decidua reflexa and part of the vera. The decidua reflexa is thickened. Presented by Dr. Gk>dson. 3057. An Ovum, which was expelled in an abortion between the third and fourth months of gestation. As in the preceding specimen the placenta is very firm, and its foetal surface is deeply lobed and knotted. The foetus, about three inches long, is well formed. A bristle is passed behind the umbilical vesicle and the omphalo-meseriteric duct. Just above the duct a small body, supposed to be another foetus blighted, is attached to the membranes. xxxiii. 10 3058. A Foetus and its membranes. They were expelled without the placenta six weeks from the last menstrual period. DISEASES OF THE MEMBRANES. 3059. A mature Foetus. The upper and lower limbs are much distorted and are drawn over the back of the foetus. The right hand has only three fingers, and is connected with the left foot by a membranous band. The toes of the right foot are imperfect. Amnionic bands are seen passing in various directions. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. DISEASES AND DISPLACEMENTS OP THE UMBILICAL COED. 3060. Parts of a double Placenta, and of two Umbilical Cords which arise there- from. One of the cords is twisted into a single noose, inclosing, and strangu- lating thereby, its fellow, which was flaccid and flat when expelled. The second child was born dead two hours after the first, the noose having been pulled tight by a nurse who was attending the patient, and who was ignorant of the existence of the second cord. xxxiii. 21 Presented by Mr. Newman. 3061. Twins at about the seventh week, with the Placenta, showing atrophy of the cords, velamentous insertion, and the degeneration of the placenta, with bulbs on the foetal aspect, which takes place in missed abortion. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3062. A portion of Cord and Umbilicus. About one inch of the cord at the umbilical insertion is contracted to a firm thread not larger than a piece of whip-cord. The contraction is sudden, and the remainder of the cord is of normal size and appearance. The vessels were filled by soft clot. Taken from a fcetus born dead at the seventh month.