SERIES XT. DISEASES AND LNJUEIES OF THE PLEUEA, BRON- CHIAL TUBES, AND LUNGS. DISEASES OF THE PLEURA. EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION". ADHESIONS AND FALSE MEMBRANES. 1665. Portion of a Lung, from the surface of which a layer of false membrane formed npon the pleura has been reflected. The substance of the false mem- brane is compact and firm; but its free surface is shreddy. The pleura exposed by its reflection is thickened and opaque. xiv. 2 1666. Part of the upper lobe of a Lung. 'Its pleural covering is thickened. In its layers, and between its inner surface and the pulmonary lobe, there is a scanty accumulation of adipose tissue. xrv. 73 1667. Portion of a Lung, exhibiting a circumscribed cavity lined by a layer of false membrane with a smooth inner surface. It is uncertain whether the cavity be that of an abscess of the lung, or a cavity formed between the lobes of the lung, the surfaces of which are in other parts united by false membrane. xiv. 10 Vide Nos. 1676, 1681, 1698. THICKENING AND INDURATION OF ADHESIONS. 1668. Portion of Pleura Costalis, thickened and indurated, so that it resembles a layer of cartilage. xiv. 1 1669. Portion of a Lung, in which there is a circumscribed cavity lined by a thin layer of false membrane. The surrounding substance of the lung is in- durated and contracted, and contains some other similar cavities of smaller size The pleura is much thickened and indurated, and its layers between the lobes of the lung are united. XIV |g It is probable that the cavities were formed in the progress of tuberculous disease. 1670. Extreme thickening, with adhesion, of the Pleural Layers, the result of repeated inflammation. go, From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. Vide No. 1675. CALCIFICATION OF FALSE MEMBRANE. 1671. A large portion of bone-like substance, which formed in a false membrane uniting the opposite surfaces of the pleura. XIV 39 The patient was an old man, who had long had dyspnoea and was subject to freauent nflW tions ot the chest, 1 **» a.nci,