CALCULI AND OTHER CONCRETIONS FORMED IN THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 539 250. A Salivary Calculus removed from the duct of the Submaxillary Gland of a woman 29 years of age, who had been suffering for some weeks with a Pain±ul and inflamed condition of the under-part of the tongue. She could not tell how long the concretion had existed. 251. A Calculus from the Submaxillary Duct of an old man; the grandfather of the child from whom the following specimen was taken. Presented by H. Hunt, Esq. 252. A minute Calculus, from the Submaxillary Duct of a child. Presented by H. Hunt, Esq. 253. A Concretion removed from over the molar teeth of the upper jaw. It was attached on the teeth and gum by the part by which it is now fixed in position. It has an irregular conical form, measures one and a quarter inches in length, three-quarters of an inch in depth, and weighs 115 grains. The patient was a married woman. The concretion was nearly six years increasing. It probably derived a great part of its materials from the saliva flowing out of the parotid duct, the orifice of which was opposite its apex. Presented by T. Sympson, Esq. OF THE LOWER ANIMALS. 254. A Calculus from the Salivary Duct of a Horse. It weighed seven ounces. BILIARY CALCULI. OF MAN. 255. Sections of a large Cholesterine Calculus from the Gall Bladder. 256. Calculus from the Gall Bladder, probably nearly pure Cholesterine. 257. A Calculus composed chiefly of Cholesterine with inspissated bile and coated with hardened faeces. It passed by an ulcerated opening from the gall bladder into the large intestine, where it became impacted and gave rise to fatal obstruction. 258. Calculi from the Gall Bladder. Composed principally of Cholesterine, the ashes containing a small quantity of Phosphate of Lime. 259. Calculi from the Gall Bladder. Composed of Cholesterine, with a small proportion of Phosphate of Lime. 260. Numerous small Cholesterine Calculi from the Gall Bladder. 261. Biliary Calculus taken from a Subject in the Dissecting Room. Composed apparently of Cholesterine.