225 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 1479. Part of the Arch of an Aorta, with an aneurism immediately above one of the semilunar valves. The sac, which is about the size of a walnut, extended between the pulmonary artery and the aorta, and burst into the pericardium, through the opening into which a quill is introduced. The internal coat of the aorta at the angles of the other valves, as well as ai*ound the mouth of the sac, is thickened, opaque-white, elevated, and tuberculated. xm. 51 1480. A Heart with the Aorta. An aneurism, the size of a Tangerene orange, projects from the anterior portion of the ascending aorta. It is within the pericardium, which is reflected upwards from the lower part of the sac. The heart is fatty. A blood clot is seen at the root of the aorta. From a woman, aged 40 years, who died from rupture of the aneurism and leaking of blood into the pericardium. Deatli did not take place suddenly. The pericardium was full of blood clot Presented by Dr. Y. D. Harris. 1481. The Base of a Heart, with the large vessels. Two small aneurisms have formed upon the first portion of the arch of the aorta, and project into the pericardium, one above, and the other by the right side of the trunk of the pulmonary artery. Portions of coloured glass are passed from the aorta into both the anenrismal sacs. The lower and larger of them, which opens into the aorta about half an inch above the valves, has been laid open : it is nearly filled by dark laminated fibrinous coagula. The smaller sac is nearly empty. The lining membrane of all the first portion of the aorta is thickened, uneven, and opaque white: small quantities of fatty matter are deposited in and beneath it. The aortic valves are thickened, opaque, rigid, and reduced in breadth. xm. iqq 1482. Part of the Arch of an Aorta, in which there is an appearance as if a portion of the internal coat just above the valves were deficient. The middle and external coats are dilated in a corresponding extent of the walls. xm. 3 From a man who died with diabetes. No. 1554 in this Series contains one of his renal arteries. 1483. The Arch of an Aorta, with an Aneurism of its upper part and right side, involving the arteria innominata. A very firm and thick laminated coagulum lines the sac, and lias closed the origin of the right subclavian artery. A portion of the coagulum was found detached and almost loose in the cavity of the aorta, as it now appears in the preparation. The trachea is slightly com- pressed by the aneurism. xm 69 _ The patient, an elderly man, was supposed to have chronic asthma, the signs of which increased to such a degree that the trachea was opened to prevent the suffocation which seemed impending. A large thyroid vein was opened in the operation, and the patient died. 1484. A Heart, with an Aneurism extending from the commencement to the termination of the arch of the aorta. The sac is of immense size; its lower part is formed by the dilated aorta; but at the upper part its walls are appa- rently formed by condensed cellular tissue, and exhibit small laminated deposits of fibrin upon their inner surface. The front and upper part of the sac has been turned upwards, with three ribs belonging to the right side of the chest and a part of the sternum, closely attached to it. There is a small fissure in the side o the sac near its upper part, through which blood escaped into the pleura. I he heart is healthy; but the pericardium is generally adherent to it. From the same patient as No. 1548. XIIL ^ 1485. The Arch of an Aorta, generally and almost uniformly dilated into a large Q