6 DISEASES OF BONES. 33. Sections of a Tibia, from a boy 18 years of age, exhibiting the effects of acute inflammation in its medullary tissue and periosteum. Lymph aud pus are abundantly deposited in the cancellous tissue throughout its whole extent. Irregular ulcerations extend through the cancellous structure of the bone at each of its extremities, and have passed through the articular cartilages into the knee and ankle-joints; suppuration has also taken place between the epiphyses and the shaft. The periosteum, separated from the shaft of the bone in nearly its whole length, is very vascular, thick, pulpy, and velvet-like onrts inner surface. Other bones from the knee and ankle-joint of the same patient are in the next Series, No. 573. 34. Part of a Lower Extremity, showing Diffuse Periostitis of the Tibia and acute inflammation of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. The thickened periosteum is detached from the anterior surface of the upper two-thirds ot the shaft of the tibia, and the bone is white and dead ; elsewhere the periosteum appears normal. The synovial membrane of the knee-joint is intensely m- iected, but the cartilages are not altered. In front a glass rod is passed through a communication, which existed between the under surface of the detached periosteum and the joint. The cavity of the synovial membrane was failed with pus, and the membrane had given way at its upper and outer part, allowing its contents to track along the surface of the femur. From a boy, aged 15, who fell and struck his knee : eight days after lie was admitted into the hospital witfiVcoUection of pus beneath the periosteiun of the tibia which w^mcjjed. Pyemia developed itself, and he died with pericarditis, embolic abscesses m the lung, and thiom bosis of a primary branch of the pulmonary artery .-See Kenton Ward Boole, vol. vi, p. 14b. 35. Section of the Tibia of a boy, in which there is Necrosis of the middle half of the shaft, with detachment of the soft parts from the whole circumference ot the dead portion. The separation of the dead bone from the Irving has com- menced, and is marked on the cut surface and exterior of the bone by »lc^ated grooves. It is probable from the history of the case that the necrosis commenced in inflammation of the periosteum, followed by extensive suppuration around the bone. 36. The other half of the Tibia last described. l- 200 37 The Tibia of the child from whom specimen (Series XI, No. 1712) was taken The periosteum is separated from the whole surface of the shaft, which had probably perished. INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM WITH FORMATION OF NEW BONE (Osteo-Plastic Periostitis). 38. Section of a Femur, on the surface of which numerous irregular plates of new bone are deposited. (In Cane E.) 39. A Femur enlarged by the deposit of new bone on its lower part immediately above the condyles. (In Case E.) 40 A Tibia and Fibula with part of the Tarsus. The tibia and fibula are enlarged, and there are sharp-edged plates and processes of new bone upon their surfaces The lower part of the interosseous ligament is ossified, and the os calcis, astragalus, and cuboides are all united by bone. These changes appear to have resulted from the irritation set up by caries of the tarsus. a. Zo (In Case E.) 41. Section of a Tibia exhibiting great increase of thickness in its walls, with