158 DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. DESTRUCTION OF THE INTERVERTEBRAL LIGAMENTS. 1071. The dorsal and lumbar portions of a Spine, from a young person, exhibiting a nearly complete destruction of the intervertebral ligaments in the whole extent of the column, with ulceration of the bodies of the vertebrae. The bodies of several of the lumbar vertebras are completely destroyed, and an angle is here formed by the approximation of the upper and lower parts of the column and the projection of the spinous processes. In the dorsal vertebras the ulceration is superficial, though the intervertebral ligaments are very deeply destroyed. The bone in progress of ulceration is not softened or otherwise changed in its apparent texture. iv. 31 1072. Section of a Spine, exhibiting Caries of the articulation between two of the lower dorsal vertebras. The intervertebral substance is completely destroyed. IV- 20 Vide No. 1063. OSSEOUS ANCHYLOSIS OP, AND FORMATION OF NEW BONE ON, THE VERTEBRA. 1073. Portion of an Occipital Bone, with the Atlas. The atlas is united to the occipital bone by new bone formed abundantly around their articulations. The atlas is also displaced towards the left side, and its right half projecting within the foramen magnum considerably diminishes the size of the aperture. iv. 27 1074. Portion of an Occipital Bone, with the first and second Cervical Vertebrae. There is a nearly complete osseous union of the two vertebras, and the odontoid process appears to have been superficially ulcerated. The anterior arch of the atlas exhibits a line of fracture; but it does not appear probable that the anchylosis of the vertebras was the consequence of the fracture. iv. 33 1075. Portion of au Occipital Bone, with the three uppermost Cervical Vertebras. The occipital bone and the anterior half of the atlas are firmly and completely united by bone. The second and third vertebras are similarly anchylosed at their articular processes. These changes seem to have followed ulcerative disease, by which the odontoid process and the body of the second vertebra were changed in structure, and in part removed. IV- 26 1076 The base of a Skull, with the first Cervical Vertebra. The vertebra, dis- placed forwards and to the left side, is in every part, except the right half of its posterior arch, united to the occipital bone. Its projection within the foramen magnum has considerably diminished the size of that aperture. D. 7 (In Case C.) 1077 Second and third Cervical Vertebras, firmly united by bone which has been, chiefly, formed around their articulations. Part of the odontoid process has been destroyed by ulceration. 28 1078. Second and third Cervical Vertebras, exhibiting a complete bony union of their bodies, articular surfaces, and spinous processes, without any displace- ment or change of structure. IV- 2^ 1079. A similar specimen. 1V- 30 1080 The Cervical portion of a Spine, in which the second, third, fourth, and fifth vertebras are united by bone. The bone uniting them forms a broad smooth layer covering the front surface of their bodies. Similar formations of bone are seen upon the front surfaces and margins of the sixth and seventh vertebras and these show that the union of each two adjacent vertebras is effected by the growths of bone from their adjacent margins extending over