DISEASES OF BONES. 13 The thickening is greatest on the inner surface of the parietal bones, but is also considerable on the upper part of the frontal bone on either side of the middle line, and over the upper portion of the occipital bone. Symmetrical circular depressions about the size of a shilling may be observed over the coronal suture about one inch on either side of the middle line. The dura mater was normal. From a child aged 7, who died of tubercular meningitis. The incisor teeth were typically pegged, but there were no other indications of congenital syphilis. A Drawing of the teeth is preserved.—See Mary Ward Book, 1878; Post Mortem Book, vol. vii, p. 206. (In Case E.) 81. A Calvaria, showing patches of grooves scattered over the parietal and frontal bones, which corresponded with villous processes on the dura mater. From a female child aged 6, who died of tabes mesenterica. The incisor teeth were notched, as in the preceding case. The cerebral surface of the dura mater and the brain were natural. A drawing of the incisor teeth is preserved.— See Post Mortem Book, vol. vii, p. 238. (In Case E.) 82. A Skull-Cap exhibiting a great increase of thickness of the diploe, and of portions of the inner table, at its anterior part. The inner surface of this part has an irregular rocky appearance from the deposit of hard new bone. The outer surface is smooth. A. 45 (In Case E.) 83. Sections of the Skull of a Maniac with irregular, rocky, and nodulated thickening of the inner table. a. 81 (In Case E.) 84. Skull-Cap, taken from a subject in the dissecting-rooms. The internal surface of the frontal bone is tuberculated and rocky, and its walls are thickened. The bone is much increased in weight. (In Case E.) 85. A Skull-Cap, exhibiting numerous small irregular portions of bone projecting from the internal surface of the frontal bone. The diploe in the situation of these bony projections is considerably thickened, and indurated: the inner table, also, m correspondence with the increase of the diploe, is carried inwards narrowing at this part the capacity of the skull. A 39 (In Case E.) 86. A similar Specimen. From the Post Mortem Eoom. There was no evidence of syphilis (In Case E.) 87. A similar Specimen. (In Case E.) 88 A Skull, exhibiting throughout its whole extent an increased thickness and density of both the outer and inner tables. The same change also affects the bones of the face but m a somewhat less degree. The cancellous tissue of the skull is very hard and close-textured. 7? (In Case E.) A' 11 89. A Skull-Cap of natural thickness, but with remarkably deep arterial oT00ves on its internal aspect. r g Q(, (In Case E.) A- 32 90 Portion of a Parietal Bone, the tables of which are separated to the distance of half an inch ; the place of the diploe being occupied by very hard and heTvy