SERIES LI. VARIOUS INSTRUMENTS AND SUBSTANCES PRO- DUCING: INJURIES; AND OTHER MISCELLANEOUS SPECIMENS. 3383. A Clasp-knife, which an insane woman thrust through her pharynx. After death, which took place from haemorrhage from a wound of the internal carotid artery, the knife was found lying by the side of the internal carotid artery, and resting on the Longus Colli muscle. The artery is preserved in No. 1377a, Series VIII. Presented by T. Smith, Esq. 3384. The Breech of an old-fashioned Gun, which was driven into the brain of a youth, aged 19, by the bursting of the piece. It entered the forehead to the left side of the middle line, one inch above the eyebrow. He was able to answer questions within a few hours after the accident, and had no paralysis. He survived the injury nine days ; was conscious and able to answer questions until the day before his death. The breech was removed from the brain after death. Presented by H. Bird, Esq. 3385. A piece of Stick upon which a boy, who fell down a lift, was impaled. It entered the right buttock at the fold of the nates and passed through the inner surface of the thigh as far as the skin covering Scarpa's triangle, which it did not penetrate. A piece of cloth was carried before the stick, and was extracted through an incision in the front of the thigh.—See Kenton Ward Booh, vol. vi, p. 100. 3386. A Pin blackened by corrosion. It was swallowed by a boy, aged 10 years; some months afterwards the point protruded through the skin near the margin of the anus. No inconvenience had been experienced with the exception of slight pain a few days previous to its extraction. Presented by Surgeon-Major Greenhill. 3387. Portion of the Tusk of an elephant in which a bullet is lodged. 3388. A similar specimen. 3389. A similar specimen, in which the section is carried through the bullet. 3390. Portion of the Tusk of an elephant through which a bullet has passed. Presented by Mr. G-. Howard. 3391. A Zwanch's Pessary, which had remained in the vagina for one year, and had caused a large fistulous opening between the bladder and vagina. It was extracted with considerable difficulty on account of some constriction of the vagina below it. There is a coating of phosphates on the pessary.