DISEASES OF JOINTS. 10(5 727. An Olecranon Process excised from a diseased Elbow-Joint. Its articular surface is ulcerated, like those of the bones last described, and, at its centre, it is completely penetrated by a large oval ulcerated passage. n. 62 In this case, the other bones of the elbow-joint appeared but little diseased, and it was judged unnecessary to excise them. The wound of the operation slowly healed, and the patient, a young man about 20 years of age, regained a moderately good use of the joint. 728. The Wrist of a man, aged 28, from which, eight years previously, the greater number of the carpal bones were removed on account of strumous disease of the joint. The hand retained very considerable power of flexion and extension. With the exception of the trapezium, pisiform, unciform, and part of the cuneiform bones, the carpal bones have been removed. These and the metacarpal bones have become adapted to the articular surfaces of the radius and ulna, and united to them by dense fibrous tissue, admitting of some motion at this part. This bond of union has been divided. The remaining bones appear healthy. 729. The head and the fragments of the neck of a Femur, excised in a case of disease of the hip-joint. The articular cartilage is removed by ulceration, and granu- lations and shreds of soft lymph cover the ulcerated surface of the head of the femur. The texture of the bone is soft, and in the recent state was deeply ruddy. The cancellous spaces are in many parts filled with inflammatory products. The patient, a boy 12 years old, had suffered long and severely with suppurative disease of the hip-joint, and was exceedingly reduced by profuse discharge from abscesses round it. The removal of the head of the bone was followed by marked recovery of strength and general health, and by closure of most of the abscesses and sinuses about the joint. The articular surface of the acetabulum was in the same state as that of the head of the femur. 730. Sections of the head and neck of a Femur excised from a diseased hip- joint. The articular cartilage is almost entirely removed by ulceration ; but that of the epiphysis appears healthy. The head of the femur is superficially, and in one portion more deeply ulcerated; its remaining substance is yellow, hard, and solidified. The substance of the neck is very soft; it could be com- pressed with the finger, and its cancellous tissue is filled with inflammatory products. 731. The great Trochanter, with a portion of the shaft, and the remains of the neck of a Femur, excised from a girl with disease of the hip. The head and about one-third of the neck of the femur were destroyed by ulceration. The remains of the neck, the whole substance of the trochanter, and of the _ re- moved portion of the shaft, are extremely'atrophied, soft, light, and thinly walled. IL 63 732. A Knee-Joint, upon which the operation of Excision had been performed. The tibia is displaced considerably backwards. The bones are loosely united together by fibrous tissue, but no osseous union has taken place. 733. A Knee-Joint, on which the operation of Excision had been performed a considerable time before death. The tibia is displaced backwards and out- wards from the femur. A considerable formation of new bone has taken place by which the femur and tibia are firmly united. The patient had been able to walk well with the limb. 734. Section of the bones of a Knee-Joint, seven years and a half after excision. The bones are firmly united by osseous union, but the tibia is in a position of slight flexion, and inclined outwards. From a boy, aged 11 years. Amputation through the thigh was performed on account of the malposition of the tibia.