SERIES XLVI. DISEASES AND INJURIES INCIDENTAL TO GESTATION AND PARTURITION. MISSED ABORTION. 3063. A Foetus papyraceus. One of twins. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3064. Compressed secondary Foetus. One of twins. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3065. A compressed Foetus at the fifth month. One of twins. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3066. Specimen, showing a Foetus at the seventh week, rolled up within the pla- centa in utero. The cord is atrophied. A case of missed abortion. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3067. The Uterus of a sheep, containing a retained Foetus, decomposed, dried up, and shrivelling. The ewe, when killed, was stated to be in good condition. She had not brought forth the preceding season, six months before, and it was supposed that she had warped her lamb. Presented by Mr. Warner. 3068. One of the Lower Limbs of a Foetus of mature growth, which was con- tained m an osseous cyst, and remained in the abdomen of the mother for fifty- two years. A portion of the cyst is connected with the limb; their surfaces were perfectly adherent, but have been partially separated. The several tissues of the limb are dry and compressed, but are of healthy structure. xxxm. 8 The patient was 80 years old when she died. Fifty-two years before she had sij™ nf pregnancy, and then of labour for the delivery of this child ; but the latter passed off at he enc of a week. She continued very weak for three months ; but from that time till she was affected T/ rgaXena 8he had S°°d health- T1,e case is ^vihed by Dr. CheZn in he Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. v, p. 104. London 1814 Other nm+inn, Vrf fi foetus are in the Museum of the Eoyal CoUege of Surgeon; of England P * °f ^ ^ 3069. Lithopaadion Calf. From the Earl of Southesk's " Esmeralda " She was served July 7, 1865; had rinderpest in December of same year. BeZ supposed to have become sterile, she was fattened, andthis process led to slow expulsion of the calf, which was completed on October 18th, 1867, without anv thing like labour. ' Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. EXTRA-UTERINE FO2TATI0N. 3070. A Uterus, with the Ovaries and Fallopian tubes. The middle of the