293 DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE STOMACH. existed no longer than two or three weeks before her admission to the Hospital. During the greater part of this period she had persistent vomiting and purging. She died of exhaus- tion on the third day after her admission. Two ecchymoses appeared on the right leg ; these were the only external haemorrhages. The kidneys were congested ; all the other organs were normal.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. vii, p. 48. RUPTURE OP VARICOSE VEINS IN THE STOMACH. 1905. A Stomach. In the fundus are two large va 'cose veins, filled with soft black recent thrombi. A small aperture is seen iu the wall of one of them, closed by a clot, into which a double bristle has been inserted. From a woman, aged 48 years, who died three hours after an attack of hsematemesis ; she had been subject to such attacks for twenty years. The liver of the same patient is contained in Series XXI, No- 2208.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. iii, Case 160. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 1906. A Stomach. The mucous membrane is everywhere mammillated, not by a puckering up of the membrane itself, but by a vast increase in the size of the glandular structures in it. From a woman, aged 37 years, who during the last month of her life suffered from sickness, and towards the close the vomiting became constant, and accompanied by much retching. A drawing of the recent preparation is preserved, No. 207.—See Pathological Society's Trans- actions, vol. xx, p. 163. Post Mortem Book, vol. i, No. 192. CONTRACTION AND THICKENING OF STOMACH. 1907. Thickening of walls of the Stomach, consequent upon chronic peritonitis. The stomach is reduced to the calibre of an ordinary large intestine; the walls are nearly half an inch thick. The mucous membrane is intact, but at one place there is a polypus the size of a horse-bean. The stomach was strongly adherent to all the parts around; the cardiac orifice would just admit a large probe and no more. One inch short of the pylorus all the thickening ceases, and the organ rather rapidly assumes a natural appearance. The patient died from pulmonary phthisis. The intestines were ulcerated. ULCERS OF STOMACH. 1908. Portion of a Stomach, exhibiting a general thickening of its coats, with ulceration. The ulcer is of an oval form; its edges are smooth and abrupt; its base is hollow, but smooth; the tissue around it is elevated and deeply wrinkled. xy g 1909. A Chronic Ulcer, occupying the posterior wall of the stomach close to the pyloric orifice. The edge of the ulcer is at one part cleanly cut and steep, at another bevelled, and the mucous membrane is slightly everted. The mus- cular coat of the stomach is exposed in the centre of the ulcer. The pyloric orifice was narrowed, apparently from the thickening of the mucous membrane and the stomach was dilated. From a man, aged 45 years, who for two or three years vomited, every two or three days a large quantity of brown fluid ; he never vomited blood. Death took place from exhaustion. 1 Presented by J. Shuter, Esq. 1910. Portion of a Stomach, in which there is an Ulcer extending completelv through its coats. The ulcer is situated near the lesser arch; its edcros are smooth and abrupt, shelving towards the aperture in the peritoneal coat" which is much smaller than that in the mucous coat. The tissues immediately'around the ulcer are thickened and indurated, but the rest of the stomach. aDDears healthy. 1 j£™ £