SERIES XXXII. —♦— DISEASES AND INJURES OF NEEVES. ATROPHY. 2551. Portion of a Cerebrum, with the Optic Nerves and the Eyes. The optic nerves are considerably diminished in size, thin and flat in their whole course from the retina to the thalami. The optic thalami are also small. The eyes are reduced in size. viii. 6 From an aged woman, who had been totally blind for twelve years. 2552. Portion of Cerebrum, with the Pons and Medulla Oblongata. Bristles are passed beneath the optic nerves, which are very much attenuated, and which could be traced from the commissure for only a certain distance upon the crura cerebri, and then seemed to terminate in the surrounding medullary substance. The optic thalami are small. The corpora quadrigemina have undergone no change. Vlll. 8 From an aged woman, who had been totally blind for many years. 2553. Portion of a Cerebrum, with the Optic Nerves and remains of the Left Eye. The cornea is opaque, and the coats of the eye are collapsed. The left optic nerve is considerably diminished in size between the diseased eye and the optic commissure. Behind the commissure, the nerve on the right side is rather smaller than that on the left; but the thalami appear to be of equal size. vm. 5 2554. Portion of the Brain, with the Optic Nerves, of a Horse which had long lost the sight of the left eye. The left optic nerve is diminished in size from the eye to the commissure ; and behind the commissure, the-nerve on the rio-ht side is scarcely more than half as large as that on the left. viii.&18 Vide No. 3218 in Series L. TUMOURS (and other Allied Morbid Growths) IN, OR INVOLVING NERVES. FIBROUS TUMOURS. 2555. A Posterior Tibial Nerve, in which there is a circumscribed oval Tumour composed of a soft grumous substance. The component fasciculi of the nerve are separated and spread out around the tumour : the peroneal nerve is adherent to the surface of the neurilemma extended over the tumour viii 1 Microscopically the tumour consists almost entirely of fibrous tissue.-See Microscopic L/rawing, A. Zb. * A drawing of the tumour is preserved, No. 388. 2556. A Median Nerve, in which there is a small oval Tumour, composed ap- parently of medullary substance of a light brown colour. The tumour was completely imbedded m the substance of the nerve, the filaments of which are separated and extended around it. t ^ r viii. 13 2 c 2