DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 235 it burst through the sloughing integuments. The artery was tied directly after the rupture, and the patient lived fifty-five hours. 1540. An Aneurism of the common Femoral Artery, for which the external iliac was tied. The patient, a man, aged 40 years, hud long suffered from severe attacks of gout and from disease of the heart. A swelling in the groin was noticed four weeks before his admission to the Hospital, which rapidly increased in size. He died on the fourth day after the operation from peritonitis ; the peritoneum was wounded in the operation. See Abernethy Ward Book, vol. i, p. 110. 1541. Aneurism of the left Femoral Artery. The aneurism occupies the upper portion of the artery, extending from an inch below Poupart's ligament to the profunda artery. The front wall of the aneurism is formed by a fusiform dilatation of all the coats of the artery, their texture being but little altered. Posteriorly, the aneurism is sacculated, about the size of an orange, and tunned by a diffused and irregular mass of coagulum having no definite boundary wall. On passing a stream of water, uuder slight pressure, into the artery from above, none appeared to escape from the lower end; and it was evident, on further examination of the clot contained in the aneurism, that it was sufficiently firm to have arrested the current of blood through it. From a man, aged 72 yoars, who was treated by compression of the femoral artery.—See Abernethy Ward Book, vol. ii, p. 29. Vide Nos. 1396, 1459, 1551. POPLITEAL ARTERY. 1542. Aneurism of the right Popliteal Artery. The artery is thickened and atheromatous. The aneurism springs entirely from the posterior aspect of the vessel, commencing about one inch and a quarter above the origin of the tibial vessels. The arterial coat appears to terminate abruptly and cannot be traced in the aneurismal sac, which was principally formed of thickened cellular tissue and expanded muscle, but in one place the skin only bounded it, and in others it seemed to have consisted only of fascia. The popliteal nerve was tightly stretched over the sac, rendering it more or less bilobed. The vein very much contracted, was flattened out near the sac. The termination of the artery was filled by a moderately firm plug, which was continuous with a firm decolorised clot in the entrance of the sac. The centre of the sac was full of dark coagulum (which has been washed out), but the wall was lined by decolorised laminae of fibrin. That in the upper half is firm and tough, but the lower portion is softer, and in parts almost diffluent. From a man, aged 65 years. 1542a. The Femoral Artery and Vein of the man from whom the preceding pre- paration was taken. The artery was tied in Scarpa's triangle fourteen days before death. The ligature was found detached on the day on which death occurred. About three-quarters of an inch of the artery and vein, corresponding to the seat of the ligature, has sloughed away. The ends of the vessels were lying separated in the cavity of the wound, connected by the saphena nerve, which is preserved. The vessels are both firmly occluded by coloured clots' that in the artery reaching upwards to the profunda, and downwards for some inches. There was at no time any symptom of venous obstruction. 1543. Popliteal Aneurism, with nearly the whole of the femoral artery and vein of the left side. The artery was tied with carbolised catgut in Scarpa's triangle. A small jagged perforation of the arterial coats was found near the spot where the vessel was tied. No trace of the ligature could be found. The inner and middle coats of the artery had been divided, but there was no trace of any clot,