244 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF VEINS. coagula composed of concentric layers of fibrin. The middle portion of the vein contained only soft fibrin and a fluid resembling pus. xni. ±vo From a young man, who died after amputation of the right arm, which was performed m consequence of traumatic gangrene. 1580. A Femoral Artery and Vein, from a Stump. The coats of the vein are generally thickened and indurated. Lymph is deposited upon the whole ot^he inner surface of the vein, as high up as the junction of the deep femoral re n and the lymph, mingled with clots of blood, completely fills the cavity of the vein to some distance above the amputated extremity. A conical clot, an inch in length, fills the end of the cavity of the artery. xm- * The patient was a man, aged 45 years. Amputation was performed for compound fracture. The cavity remaining within the lymph in the vein was full oi pus. 1581. A Femoral Vein, exhibiting an abundant and nearly uniform depositiof lymph upon its inner surface. That part of the inner membrane of the vein SK isPexposed is of a dark red colour. The branches of the vein are filled by firm coagula. ' These veins were taken from the left lower extremity of a man who had of the rilnt thigh. He died a month after the injury, with obscure signs of phlebitis, llie remammg cavities of the veins were full of pus ; but no other veins were diseased. 1582. Femoral Vein from a Stump, amputation of the *5 formed about three weeks before death. The vein is dilated thickened, and indurated, and there is a deposit of lymph upon its inner surface Only one pair of valves remains in the whole extent of the vein from Poupart s ligament down Ws ; the others, it is presumed, disappeared m the course of previous TeZ oi the vein. The superficial veins in the leg were exceedingly vancose. TJLCEBATION EXTENDING INTO VEINS. 1583 Portion of a Right Temporal Bone, with the internal jugular vein and catt d artery attached. Just below the temporal bone there is a ragged aperture in the vein, the walls of which are thickened and the calibre narrowed, but just admitting the pieces of glass inserted. ■u-i^ onoA 9 vpsn-q who was brought to the Hospital with a large abscess in the neck From a child, ^fJj^^ZstZv^B. A small incision was made at this point pointing ^^^f^e ^^OC gome Wo fo]W of £L\ The h^ on-ltf^ Crested by'a pad. As hemorrhage recurred three days after, ^ i,epss was S freely open, but although the source of the bleeding was recognized to be the ab.ce.s was lai l ireciy oic , b secured and a graduated compress was 5yS"£. SSSS 3SJii-ta-B- ™ *«*■ p- 18°- Vide Series VIII, No. 1441. EXPERIMENTS ON THE INJECTION OF PTJS INTO VEINS. 1584 Part of the Femoral Vein of a dog, tied after the injection of eight drops of pus into its canal. The dog was killed forty-eight hours after Ihe in- terior of the vein presents a natural appearance. A small coloured coagulum occupies its canal below the ligature. Lymph xs effused m the tissues around^ 1585 Part of the Femoral Vein of a dog which was killed ninety-six hours niter the injection of twenty drops of pus. The ligature has separated, and the vein is obliterated where it had been tied. Its internal coat presents aspect. lRftfi A similar specimen, in which three ligatures were applied to the vein. ^a^aS and the portion of vessel included between the ligatures is destroyed.