URINARY CALCULI. 536 lithotomy, which was performed eight years before the patient again came tinder observation. The calculus is composed for the most part of Phosphates, with a small quantity of Carbonate of Calcium and Magnesium. From a male, aged 16 years.—See Henry Ward Book, toI. v, p. 204. FRAGMENTS OF CALCULI PASSED AFTER LITHOTRITY. 224. Fragments of a Calculus weighing three ounces, twenty grains. Impure Uric Acid, probably surrounded by Oxalate of Lime and some Phosphate of Lime. Passed from the bladder of a man after lithotrity by Mr. Stanley. 225. Fragments of Calculus. Impure Uric Acid. From the bladder of a man 56 years old. Lithotrity by Mr. Stanley. 226. A large number of small round Calculi varying from the size of a shot to that of a pea, and a large quantity of fragments of these calculi, removed from the bladder in the operation of lithotrity by Bigelow's method. The whole weighs 1,350 grains. The calculi are composed for the most part of Urate of Ammonia, with some Uric Acid. Many of them have been fractured spon- taneously. Lithotrity by Mr. T. Smith. 227. Fragments of a Calculus which passed from a bladder through the urethra after the operation of lithotrity. Two, larger than the rest, are suspended by a wire; of these, the higher became impacted in the prostate gland, whence it was extracted. The calculus is composed of the triple Phosphate. Vide Nos. 26 to 30,189. CALCULI REMOVED FROM, OR PASSED BY, THE URETHRA. 228. Section of a Calculus. Uric Acid, nearly pure. From the urethra. Presented by A. S. Abbott, Esq. 229. A Calculus. Urate of Ammonia, with a little Phosphate and Oxalate of Lime. From the urethra of a female. 230. Portion of a Calculus. Oxalate of Lime. Analysis by Dr. Hue. Extracted from the urethra of a boy by Mr. Vincent. A model of the entire calculus is placed beneath the portion of it. 231. Fragments of a Calculus. Nucleus, Oxalate of Lime; remainder, Uric Acid. Passed from the urethra of a man 63 years old. Presented by — Robinson, Esq. 232. A broken Calculus. The upper and smaller portion is from the urinary bladder, the lower and larger from the dilated prostatic urethra. The frac- ture resulted from the passage of a sound along the course of the urethra. The one portion was removed after incising the prostate by the ordinary lateral operation, the other after subsequent dilatation of the neck of the bladder. In the progress of the case there merited attention, a. difficulty experienced in the introduc-