DRAWINGS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. 581 belonged to the same person as the preceding, but taken from the opposite limb. (T. Godart.) This and the preceding Specimens are preserved in Series I, Nos. 258, 259. 5f. Section of a Femur, nearly the whole shaft of which has necrosed. The Specimen is preserved in Series I, No. 256. 6. Necrosis of part of the shaft of a Femur, with thickening of the surrounding periosteum. (T. Godart.) 7. Necrosis of part of the anterior wall of a Tibia. The Specimen is preserved and described in Series I, No. 251. 8. Necrosis of a portion of the anterior wall of a Tibia; the sequestrum is exposed through an ulcer in the integuments. (W. H. Clift.) 9. Necrosis of the shaft of a Humerus, six weeks after a Compound Fracture. A line of florid granulations marks the separation between the white, dead, and the living bone, upon which an abundance of new bone has been formed. (T. Godart.) 10. Section of part of the Femur of a Rabbit. Into a hole, drilled through it, a peg, made of bone, was tightly driven. When examined, at the end of twelve weeks, a great portion of the peg had disappeared. (T. Godart.) See some experiments performed by Mr. Savory, the specimens from which are preserved in the Museum. 11. Rickety curvature of both Tibia?. 12. Syphilitic Necrosis of the Tibia. (T. Godart.) 13. Syphilitic Nodes on the Clavicles and left side of the Frontal Bone. (T. Godart.) 14. Drawing of an undergrown girl, aged 16 years, showing some of the effects of Congenital Syphilis. The teeth are " pegged," and the bridge of the nose is flattened; both eyes are affected with interstitial keratitis, and the right, which is also affected with kerato-globus, was absolutely blind. Large patches of necrosis of the cranial bones are exposed by nlceration of the scalp (T. Godart.) r' 15. Hard ivory-like Osseous Tumour, involving the frontal and other adiacent bones. From a specimen in the Museum of the University of Cambrido-e. (J L. Bailey.) a ' K 16. 17. A Hand, in which the metacarpal bone of the little finger was the seat of a bony tumour, and was removed by Jonathan Toogood, Esq., by whom the sketches were presented. 18. Enormous Cartilaginous Tumours in several of the bones of a hand The hand was removed from a man, 56 years old, in whom some of the tumours had grown from his birth. (T. Godart.) The Specimen is preserved and described in Series I, Nos. 412, 413. 19' 21°^uAnHand' With numerous Cartilaginous Tumours in its Metacarpal Bones and .Phalanges. r mLWrSjS^ fr°m " W' " PrC9erVed 18 dGSCribed witl1 lowing, 21. The Metacarpal Bone of the other Hand of the same boy. It was amrmtnt^l at the same time, and contained a similar tumour. amputated