GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 500 From a woman, aged 21 years. She had a lump on the upper part of the pinna since birth, which always pulsated. It grew very gradually until about six years ago, when it began to extend more rapidly. Ligature of a prominent portion, and later the insertion of pius beneath a part of the growth, were tried without effect. The ear stood out prominently from the head. It was of a dull red or purple colour, and of soft doughy consistence. There was distinct, Blightly distensile pulsation, arrested by pressure on the carotid artery, with a marked hum- ming bruit. The posterior auricular and temporal arteries, which supplied the growth, were much enlarged and pulsated forcibly, but the morbid change did not extend to the integuments of the head and face. The ear was removed by an incision around its attachment, the divided vessels being held by assistants. Very little blood was lost.—See account of case by Mr. Eve in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxi, 1880; also Lucas Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 130. A drawing of the ear, taken before removal, is preserved, No. 590 ; Microscopic specimens, also, Nos. 177, 178, and a drawing of the microscopic appearances, A 53. 3346. The right external Ear of a man, aged 23. An erectile or vascular tumour occupies the posterior surface and involves the adjacent subcutaneous tissues, and part of the scalp. " The back of the auricle, in nearly the whole extent, was puffed out by a saperficially-lobed, soft, easily compressed, and elastic swelling, which pulsated fully and softly. Two similar and continuous lobes of swelling were under the scalp above and behind the auricle, and these were well-defined above, but gradually subsided below. The skin covering the swelling was for the most part dusky purple, but, except where it was scarred, appeared of healthy texture ; the skin of the interior of the auricle and its fibro- cartilage also appeared unaffected, except in the turgescence of the blood-vessels. A posterior branch of the superficial temporal artery passing by the front of the swelling, and a branch of the posterior auricular artery passing behind it, felt large and pulsated strongly; the common carotid artery also on this side pulsated more fully than that on the other. Its distinct soft bruit was audible, synchronous with the pulsation in the tumour, and distinct pulsatile movement was visible. The disease had been noticed like a very small pimple when the patient was four years old. It had from that time regularly increased." The case is described at greater length by Sir J. Paget in his " Lectures on Surgical Pathology," Third Edition, p. 581. " xi. 43 3347. Section of a Tumour removed from the thigh. It consists of cells or cysts, of various form and size, filled with blood, and separated by a soft me- dullary substance of a brownish-yellow colour and obscurely fibrous texture. In the upper part of the specimen are some cells distinct from the rest, which were seated in the adipose tissue of the limb. On the integuments covering the tumour there is a small tubercular elevation at one part, and at another an ulcerated opening. xxxv. 14 The patient was a woman, 45 years old. The tumour had been growing three years without pain, but with much impairment of health. Blood, sometimes as much as a pint at a time, was discharged twice or thrice a week from the ulcerated surface of the tumour. The other half of the turnour is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. 3348. Section of a Tumour removed from a man's thigh. The tumour, hoof- shaped, and about seven inches in its chief diameter, projected from the outer part of the middle of the thigh, like an outgrowth of skin. The portion not covered by skin rested, as it here appears, on the fascia superficialis ; it is well defined, and very slightly lobed. Its cut surface has, in most parts, a very fine spongy aspect, and looks like a close-textured erectile tissue, on account of the great'number of sections of minute blood-vessels by which it is grooved and perforated. Large veins, some of which are indicated, lie at its base, and in the subcutaneous tissue over it. Its general texture is nearly white, but portions of it have a rusty tinge from decolourised blood. xxxv. 90 The patient was 32 years old. The tumour, commencing at the seat of a slight musket- wound received six months previously, had been ten years in progress, growing constantly and