INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 118 thirds. The ends overlap the upper portion uniting to the front of the lower, with a large accumulation of bone at their sides, from which also many pointed processes project. There is a small flat growth of bone on the lower and posterior part of the shaft of the femur. c. 59 (In Case H.) 812. Sections of a Femur, in which a fracture extends transversely through the shaft immediately below the neck. The lower portion has been drawn upwards and backwards, so that its upper end is on a level with the trochanter major; and in this position it is firmly united by bone to the back of the trochanter and the base of the neck. c. 85 The fracture occurred six years before death. See No. 97, which was taken from the same case. (In Case H.) 813. A Femur, showing a fracture in the lower half of the shaft united with much displacement and shortening. The displacement is antero-posterior, the upper portion being in front; the fragments are separated and firmly united by bone. Taken from the dissecting-room. (In Case H.) 814. Sections of a Femur, which has been fractured in the middle of its shaft. The two portions overlap considerably, the upper portion lying on the inner side of the lower. The fracture is firmly united by bone placed between and at the sides of the fragments ; and the sections show that this bone is composed of cancellous tissue aud compact walls, which have almost completely coalesced with the cancellous tissue and walls of the portions of the femur which it unites. C. 7 (In Case H.) 815. Section of a Femur, which has been broken about the middle of its shaft. The two portions overlap considerably, and are united in this position. The bone forming the medium of their union has a cancellous texture, with compact walls. The medullary cavity is closed at both the fractured ends of the bone. c. 19 (In Case H.) 816. A similar Specimen. c. 20 (In Case H.) Vide also Nos. 797 and 801. 817. Parts of a Tibia and Fibula, in which a compound fracture through the middle of their shafts occurred two years before the amputation of the limb. The several portions of bone, displaced and overlapping, are firmly consolidated by osseous substance deposited between their contiguous and lateral surfaces. The small separate portion of the tibia was found loose in the cavity of the bone by the side of which it is now placed. Besides the fractures in the central parts of the tibia and fibula, there are fractures running transversely and obliquely through the outer malleolus of the fibula, which have been united by bone. c. 92 (In Case H.) Rotation with or without vertical displacement. 818. A Radius, which has been fractured near the middle of its shaft. The fracture is united with a little overlapping of the ends of the bone, and so much rotation outwards of the upper fragment by the biceps that the tubercle is directed upwards. C. 30 (In Case H.) 819. A Femur which has sustained n eommimrted fracture just below the trochan-