171 DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. vertebra projects in front of the fifth, and the membranes of the spinal cord appear tense and compressed beneath it. iv. 9 It is necessary to observe, that the fissures upon the arches of the vertebra?, on each side of the spinous processes, were made by the saw in opening the spinal canal. 1158. Portion of a Spine, in which there is complete dislocation of the bodies and articular processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebras, without any frac- ture. IV. 8 1159. Portion of a Spine, in which there is dislocation of the bodies and articular processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebras, with fracture of the articular processes of the fifth. The articular processes of the fifth are raised up from those of the sixth, but have not passed in front of them. The posterior part of the intervertebral fibro-cartilages appears to have been deeply torn. iv. 10 1160. Portion of a Spine, in which the articular processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebras are dislocated, and the right articular process and body of the sixth are broken. The intervertebral substance between the fifth and sixth ver- tebras is also completely torn across. The spinal cord has been divided along its middle, for the purpose of showing the softening and laceration of its sub- stance opposite the injured vertebras, and especially in the line opposite the division of the intervertebral fibro-cartilage. iv. 2 1161. Portion of a Spine, in which there is dislocation of the bodies and articular processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebras, with fracture of the body of the sixth. The right inferior articular process of the fifth has passed to the front of the right superior process of the sixth ; the corresponding processes on the left side more nearly retain their places, so that the upper part of the spine is twisted round towards the left side. IV. 11 1162. Portion of a Spine, in which there is a complete dislocation of the articular processes of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebras, and a partial dislocation of their bodies, without any fracture. The right half of the intervertebral sub- stance is torn through; the left half is nearly entire. The articular processes of the sixth vertebra were raised up above those of the seventh, but had not passed to the front of them. IV> 23 The patient fell, from a height of about sixteen feet, on his head, and his neck was bent by the weight of his body. He lost all sensation and power of voluntary motion in the trunk and limbs, and died on the third day after the accident. 1163. Portion of a Spine, in which there is dislocation, with fracture of the edo-es of the articular processes, of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebras. The body of the sixth cervical vertebra is separated from the intervertebral substance below it, and projects in front of the seventh. IV 5 1164. Portion of a Spine, including the Lower Cervical and Upper Dorsal Verte- bras. The intervertebral substance between the last cervical and the first dorsal vertebras is torn through, and the upper portion of the spine is carried forward m such a manner, that the first dorsal vertebra presses backwards upon the cord, which is here crushed, softened, and ecchymosed. From a heavy man, aged 63 years, who fell upon his shoulders. There was complete loss of motion below the thorax, but sensation was perfect. He died on the fifth day after the 1165. Section of part of the Dorsal Region of a Spinal Column, in which there had been dislocation between the seventh and eighth vertebras, with fracture of the body and spinous process of the seventh. The line of fracture can be seen m the specimen.