DISEASES OF BONES. 31 It had completely separated, and was extracted without any difficulty or division of surrounding parts. The disease and death of the bone were the result of exposure to the fumes of phosphoric acid twelve weeks previously. 232. Lower Jaw of a lad aged 18, with two left molars, removed during life on account of phosphorus-necrosis. The jaw was divided a little to the right of the middle line, and each half was drawn out of the mouth without difficulty, and scarcely any haemorrhage. The enamel is absent from the grinding surface of one of the two teeth, which appear porous. Some portions of the front sur- face of the jaw, especially of the right ramus, are coated with a pumice stone-like deposit. This specimen was taken from the same patient as No. 230. The repaired bone is shown in No. 246. 233. An entire Lower Jaw which, with the exception of the left condyle, has undergone Necrosis. There is a considerable deposit of new bone about the left condyle. I. 338 From a man aged 40, who had worked in a lucifer match manufactory for twenty years. The jaw had been affected for nearly two years before its removal. The bone was found on his death to be in great part reproduced. It is preserved in No. 245. 234. Necrosis of the whole Lower Jaw, excepting the right condyle. i. 315 From a man aged 40, who had been for some time at work in a lucifer match manufactory. 235. Nearly the whole of the Lower Jaw in a state of Necrosis. I. 311 Removed from a man who had been for some time engaged in a lucifer match manufactory. He completely recovered from the operation. SPECIMENS ILLUSTRATING- THE PROCESS OF SEPARATION OF DEAD BONE. 236. Portion of a Tibia from a compound fracture, exhibiting the changes in the periosteum and bone preparatory to the exfoliation of the fractured extremity. The periosteum is thickened and appeared very vascular, and granulations have grown from its torn margin; a portion of it is detached and turned back, to show part s of the subjacent bone in a higher state of vascularity than is natural. Part of the extremity of the bone has acquired the peculiar white colour of dead bone. j 20 237. Portion of a Tibia from a compound fracture, exhibiting a somewhat later stage in the process of exfoliation of the broken extremity of the bone. The dead bone is distinguishable from the living by its peculiar whiteness; and its separation has_ been begun by the formation of a superficial groove in the adjacent margins of the living bone. Granulations have arisen from the exposed medulla. j 21 238. Section of a Tibia, exhibiting a part of the process of exfoliation after superficial Necrosis. The dead and exfoliating piece of bone is separated from the living bone in the upper half of its extent, and the space which has been here formed by the absorption of the surface of the living bone is occupied by soft vascular granulations. Beneath the lower part of the dead piece of bone there is an ulcerated groove, but no granulations. The granulations arising from the parts around the dead bone are large and spongy, and overlap its margins. I 2 239. Sections of a Tibia. A portion of its anterior wall has perished, and is surrounded by new bone, from which it may be distinguished by its smoothness and peculiar whiteness. Between the new bone and the deeper portions of the dead bone there is a large quantity of soft vascular granulations. I Q