358 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE KIDNEYS, SECONDARY CHANGES IN THE KIDNEYS AND URETERS TO OBSTRUC- TION OF THE URINARY PASSAGES. a. Obliteration or Obstruction of Ureter. 2361. A Kidney, reduced to about one-fourth of its natural size, by absorption of its glandular substance. The ureter is obliterated at its commencement: the pelvis is as large as usual. The other kidney of the same patient was healthy in structure, but of nearly twice the natural size. xxvi. 10 2362. A Kidney, of which the ureter is so contracted at its commencement, that it will only admit the passage of a bristle. The pelvis and infundibula are considerably enlarged, and there is an almost complete absorption of the paren- chyma of the kidney. xxvi. 4 2363. A Bladder, with the Ureters and one Kidney, of a boy about 10 years old. The muscular coat of the bladder is hypertrophied, and its mucous mem- brane is thickened, indurated, and very deeply wrinkled. Just before their terminations in the bladder, both ureters are so contracted that they would only admit the passage of a probe. Above these contractions they are both, in the rest of their extent, widely dilated. The pelvis and infundibula of the kidney are also dilated, and its glandular substance is partially absorbed. xxvn. 8 Presented by S. Q-. Lawrance, Esq. 2364. The Kidneys from a girl, aged 14 years. The left kidney shows an advanced condition of hydro-nephrosis ; the pelvis is distended and the parenchyma of the organ is destroyed, with the exception of a few flattened disc-like portions. The pelvis of the right kidney is also dilated, but the parenchyma appears increased in quantity and is swollen, pale, and opaque. The right ureter is dilated to the size of a quill, the left ureter is not dilated. On passing a probe along the ureters in either direction, it was evident that there was a decided constriction at a point half an inch distant from the bladder; the constriction was more marked in the left than in the right canal. When laid open, the right ureter presented nothing definite at the point noted, but in the left ureter the constric- tion was marked by a very narrow whitish line. The bladder and urethra were quite natural. The liquid taken from the kidneys was of a pale brown colour, sp. gr. 1012, with a faint trace of albumen and flocculent sediment—no doubt dilute urine.—See Post Mortem Booh, vol. iii, p. 358. 2365. The Kidneys, Ureters, and Bladder from a woman, aged 43 years, who died from suppression of urine. The kidneys are in a state of commencing suppuration. Three inches below the kidney the right ureter is greatly thick- ened, and its calibre narrowed, but not obstructed. A short distance lower, the walls of the ureter again become thickened and continue so until its entrance into the bladder. The left ureter is affected in a similar manner. The bladder is hypertrophied. 2366. A Kidney, elongated in form, with dilatation of the pelvis and some thin- ning of the parenchyma. The ureter is irregularly dilated and opens into the bladder by a pin-hole aperture, through which a probe could be passed when the ureter was straightened out, but not otherwise. From a child, aged 8 months. The other kidney was normal. The dilatation of the pelvis and ureter, and the atrophy of the kidney substance, were probably due to obstruction to the passage of urine into the bladder. From a rickety child.—See Post Mortem Booh, vol. viii, p. 41. 2367. The Bladder and a portion of the Ureters, from an old case of stricture of the urethra, with a history of two years' duration. The specimen shows the