292 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE STOMACH. 1899. Portion of a Stomach, in which there is an aperture with a dark discolora- tion of the membrane, around it. The discolored portion is very thin, and the aperture in its centre has ragged edges. xv- It is uncertain whether these changes are due to ulceration, or to the action of the secretions of the stomach after death. POST-MORTEM DIGESTION, AND HHEMORRHAGIC EROSION. 1900. Part of a Stomach, in which one-half of the mucous membrane is made thin and pale by digestion after death, and the other half is the seat of nume- rous minute « follicular " ulcers. The ulcers, or " hemorrhagic erosions, are from half a line to two lines in diameter, generally oval or circular, like little shallow pits in the mucous membrane. There is no apparent change ot struc- ture in the tissues round or beneath them; but the base of each ulcer was darkly blood-coloured, through the small quantity of blood extravasated into rt. The patient, an intemperate man, 50 years old, died with general dropsy cirrhosis of the liver enlarged heart, and congested spleen and kidneys He was out of health for five ye**T to hi! death, and was subject to "bihous attacks," and to gout. His case is related m the St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. x, p. 243. HEMORRHAGIC EROSION. 1901. The cardiac portion of a Stomach, with the lower part of the oesophagus. There are six superficial ulcers of irregular shape, and from two lines to halt an inch in width, in the mucous membrane just below the cardiac orifice, ineir margins are clearly defined, their bases smooth, and of a deep black colour from blood effused in and upon them, and discoloration by the action of the gastric fluid. All the adiacent textures of the stomach appear healthy. In the lower part of the oesophagus the epithelium has been removed; its blood-vessels are m many parts intensely congested, and the blood in them is deeply blackened^ ^ From an elderly man who died with granular disease of the kidneys, dropsy, and enlarged heart without any probability of having taken poison, and without having exhibited any remarkable signs of disease of the stomach. 1902. Portion of a Stomach, exhibiting numerous small ulcers in the mucous membrane. The ulcers are from half a line to a line in diameter, round, oval, and angular in form; and some of them were, in the recent state, black, pro- bably with effused blood. xv" 4 From a woman to whom small doses of arsenic had been administered for a fortnight, on account of a cutaneous affection. The mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines appeared highly vascular. 1903. Portion of a Stomach, in the mucous membrane of which there are numerous circular ulcers. They vary from half a line to two lines in diameter, and penetrate the whole thickness of the mucous membrane, which m the inter- vening spaces appears healthy. Many of them in the recent state contained points of effused blood. XV- From a woman, 45 years old, from whom the sarcomatous tumours of the breast in Series XLVIII, Nos. 3163 and 3164, were taken. PUNCTIEORM HEMORRHAGE. 1904. A Stomach, laid open by an incision along the great curvature. There is capillars congestion of the mucous membrane. Numerous punctiform haemor- rhages are scattered over the stomach in the neighbourhood of the great curva- ture • they are most numerous on the anterior surface. The mucous membrane was covered by a layer of viscid mucus mixed with altered blood, and much re- sembled the condition seen in poisoning by oxalic acid. From a girl aged 11 years. Symptoms of diabetes mellitus could be ascertained to have