DISEASES OF JOINTS. 88 588. Section of an Ankle-Joint, exhibiting the effects of inflammation. The articular cartilages are completely destroyed, and the bones are superdcially nlcerated and vascular. The other bones and the joints of the tarsas are healthy. n. 1 589. An Astragalus, from the superior articular surface of which nearly all the articular cartilage has been removed; a small portion remains closely acherent to the bone, and very thin. The exposed surface of bone is healthy, except at one small portion, which is superficially ulcerated. II. 2 590. An Ankle-Joint, from whicli nearly all the articular cartilages have been removed : the small portions which remain are thinned, and their connection with the bone is loosened. The bones are superficially ulcerated and very vascular. The posterior surface, by which the astragalus articulated with the os calcis, is similarly diseased. n. 4 591. A similar specimen of ulceration of the cartilages and bones of an Ankle- Joint; but here the exposed bones are covered thickly with lymph. n. 5 592. The extremities of a Tibia and Fibula, and the Astragalus. The corre- sponding articular surfaces of the ankle-joint show nodular overgrowths of the cartilage, associated with absorption and ulceration. From a child, whose foot was removed for destructive disease of the ankle-joint. 593. An Os Naviculare from an old horse, exhibiting absorption of its articular cartilage and ulceration of the subjacent bone. I. 252 Vide Nos. 582, 584, 594, 595, 625, 626. From Rheumatic Disease, vide No. 666 et seq. FIBROUS DEGENERATION OF CARTILAGE. 594. A Patella, in which there is softening, with fibrous degeneration and absorption, of the articular cartilage. The disease affects only half the cartilage. At the borders of the diseased part there are cracks extending in various directions through the whole thickness of the cartilage, and some of its substance between the cracks is converted into close-set tufts of fine filaments, which float out from the surface of the bone, and are about twice as long as the healthy cartilage is thick. In the centre of the diseased spot, where the morbid change has made most progress, the cartilage has been wholly removed, and the exposed surface of the patella is hard and nodulated. n. 51 595. The Bones and Ligaments of a Knee-Joint. The anterior crucial ligament is wanting, and small portions of the articular cartilages of the femur and tibia have been absorbed, apparently after fibrous degeneration. The opposite joint was similarly and symmetrically diseased. II. 53 ULCERATION (Caries) OF THE ARTICULAR SURFACES OF BONES. 596. Bones of the Elbow-Joint, exhibiting the effects of inflammation which, probably, commenced in the joint. The texture of the bones is porous and spongy : their articular surfaces are ulcerated, and, upon the external surface of each bone, there is an irregular deposit of new bone in ridges and . sharp processes. n. 30 597. Bones of the Wrist, exhibiting the effects of inflammation in the whole of the carpal and metacarpal joints. The articular surfaces of the several bones are extensively ulcerated,—some superficially, others deeply,—and there is a very abundant formation of new bone around the ulcerated parts. n. 23 598. Portions of an Os Innominatum and a Sacrum, exhibiting the effects of inflammation in the sacro-iliac symphysis and the posterior part of the ilium.