DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE 190 GUMMA IN THE HEART. 1280. The Specimen was taken from the body of a man, aged 38 years. Two bulgings were found near the apex of the left ventricle; one the size of a marble, and the other of a walnut. They are lined on the inside with fibrin, and are due to the appearance on the wall of the ventricle of a firm whitish-yellow substance dispersed in islets amongst muscular tissue. This white appearance is also seen along the attachment of the small flap of the mitral valve. Under the micro- scope this material presented the characters of a gumma.—See Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xxix, 1878. TUBERCLE. 1281. Portions of the Left Ventricle of a Heart, in the middle of the muscular substance of which there is a small spherical mass of tubercular matter, about two lines in diameter. The surrounding tissue is healthy. xn- 61 From a negro, 30 years old, who had tubercular disease of the lungs, liver, spleen, and intestines. TUMOUKS AND ALLIED MORBID GROWTHS IN THE HEART. BONE-LIKE FORMATIONS IN THE CARDIAC WALL. 1282. Section of a Left Ventricle, exhibiting a large nodulated and granular mass of substance like bone, in the tissue around the attachment of the mitral valve. XIL 31 1283. A Heart preserved, independently of the disease of its valves, to show the calcareous degeneration of portions of the wall of the left auricle. The bone- like plates are covered by the delicate endothelium lining the endocardium. xii. 92 FIBROUS TUMOUR. 1284. The interventricular Septum of a Heart. Projecting into the left ventricle towards the anterior part of the septum is a roundish plaque about the size of a florin, which has been divided. The surface of the projection was found covered by a ragged, decolorised, friable clot, evidently old. It is rough and fibrous looking, and its lining is continuous with the endocardium. The section of the projection shows a firm fibrous structure about a quarter of an inch thick, which appears to be formed by a fibrous thickening of the endocardium. Im- mediately beneath is a layer of loose fibrous tissue intermixed with which, but more abundantly towards the deeper surface, is a small quantity of muscular tissue. The endocardium is generally thickened over the surface of the ventricle, the thickening being greatest around the projection. The left brachial artery was plugged from its commencement to its bifurcation; the plug also extended into the radial and ulnar arteries. Emboli were also found in the digital, superior mesenteric and hepatic arteries. Two small perforating ulcers were found in the jejunum, evidently the result of deficient blood supply from embolism. Microscopic Examination.—The growth was found to be composed of fibrous tissue, which was dense, and arranged in parallel bundles throughout the greater part of its thickness, but loose and reticular towards the deeper surface. No distinct endothelial lining could be detected on the ventricular surface to which the remains of blood clot were adherent. The connective tissue between the subjacent muscular fibres was increased. The specimen was taken from a man, aged 36 years, who was admitted to the Hospital with dry gangrene of the tips of the left index and little fingers, supposed to be due to frost bite. Symp- toms of peritonitis developed themselves, and he died collapsed. See Pitcairn Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 28; also an account of tbe case by Mr. H. T. Butlin, in the Path. Soc. Trans., vol. xxxi, 1880. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 61.