URINARY CALCULI. 529 OXALATE OF LIME. URIC ACID. EARTHY PHOSPHATES. 161. Three layers exist in this Calculus. The outer is composed of Phosphate of Magnesia and Ammonia, the middle of Uric Acid, and the nucleus of Oxalate of Lime. OXALATE OF LIME SUCCEEDED BY FOUR OR MORE LAYERS. 162. Sections of a large Calculus. Central portion, Oxalate of Lime: white layer surrounding it, Oxalate of Lime, Urate of Ammonia and Phosphates ; remainder, Uric Acid, nearly pure : a thin layer of Urate of Ammonia, con- taining a little Oxalate and Phosphate of Lime, surrounds the whole. From the bladder of a man. Lithotomy by Sir Wra. Lawrence. 163. Sections of a large Calculus. Nucleus, Oxalate of Lime; surrounded by thick alternate layers of Uric Acid and Oxalate of Lime; and coated by a thick layer of Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia. Presented by E. A. Lloyd, Esq. 164. Sections of a Calculns. Nucleus and surrounding portion, Oxalate of Lime, containing a little Urate of Ammonia, surrounded by Phosphate of Lime with a little Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia; the darker band within this is pure Phosphate of Lime, and exhibits the radiated structure described by Dr. Wollaston. From the bladder of a boy 8 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Vincent. 165. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus and central portion, Oxalate of Lime, and Urate of Ammonia, with a little of the Phosphates; then follows, chiefly Oxalate of Lime; externally is a mixture of the Oxalate of Lime and Urate of Ammonia, with some Phosphates. Analysis by Dr. Hue. From the bladder. Lithotomy by Sir ¥m, Lawrence. CALCULI CONSISTING OF CYSTIC OXIDE (CYSTINE). 166. One-half of a Cystic Oxide Calculus removed from a boy, aged 14 years. It weighed one ounce, seven drachms. Symptoms of Irritation of the urinary organs had existed from earliest childhood, and had been extremely severe for the last eighteen months. The urine was always copious, clear, and pale, never containing blood or any large quantity of mucus. 167. The half of a large kidney-shaped .Cystic Oxide Calculus. The surface is beaded, and presents the usual waxy appearance. The entire stone -weighed 820 grains. It measures 2| inches in length, 1^ inches in breadth, and 1 inch in thickness. The calculus was removed from an extremely emaciated girl, aged 17 years, an idiot. For two years and a half she had suffered severely from symptoms of vesical irritation. She died a few days afterwards from advanced phthisis. 168. The half of a large Cystic Oxide Calculus, with a nodulated and apparently crystallised surface. The calculus weighed 740 grains. Its specific gravity is 113. It measures 1-& inch through its long axis; and l£ and 1^ through its respective shorter axes. 10 grains gave on analysis— Cystic Oxide .. .. .. .. 9'1 Phosphate of Lime .. .. .. 038 Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia .. 01 Animal matter and loss .. .. .. 012 1000 2 M