DISEASES OF BONES. 50 372. The upper part of a Femur, with a bony process of a pyramidal form and about three inches in length, continued from the trochanter minor. To the extremity of this bony process the tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles is attached. A- 126 (In Case G-.) 373. The upper part of a Femur, exhibiting a bony process like that last described, which was connected with the trochanter minor by ligamentous substance. A. 14/ (In Case G.) 374. A Femur, on the middle of the shaft of which, on its outer and front aspect, is a large, flat, broad-based and pointed osseous growth, like the two following specimens. A" (In Case Gr.) 375. Sections of a Femur, and of a growth of bone from the outer side of its shaft. The growth has a broad base of attachment, and a smooth convex surface: one of its margins rises gently from the shaft, the other is sharp and overhanging. The section shows that the growth is almost entirely formed of compact°tissue, and is wholly external to the wall of the femur. Two plates of bone were found in the muscles close to the femur. They are preserved m Series VI, No. 1170. A- 129 (In Case Gr.) 376. Sections of a Femur from the surface of which an Exostosis has arisen. The growth is of a flattened, elongated form, attached by a broad base, and with pointed processes directed downwards : it presents a cancellous texture sur- rounded by a thin shell of compact bone. The walls of the femur and its medullary cavity in the situation of the exostosis are perfectly sound. I. 186 377. The lower part of a Femur, from the front of which a broad flat exostosis had grown, and was removed by operation. The surface from which the exostosis was cut is rough: it is formed of cancellous tissue of healthy aspect. The exostosis was composed of a similar tissue invested by a thin layer of compact substance. L 222 The upper margin of the base of the exostosis is very nearly three inches above the border of the articular cartilage of the trochlea of the femur ; but it was completely covered by the svnovial membrane, and the whole tumour projected into the cavity of the knee-joint. It had been growing for two or three years, and had produced great pain and frequent attacks ot inflammation of the knee-joint. The patient died with deep abscesses around the femur, about ten days after the operation. 378. An Exostosis removed from the upper part of a Femur. It was attached to the bone, just behind and below the lesser trochanter, by a low stem about an inch in diameter. From this stem it enlarges into an irregular deeply lobed and nodular mass, measuring from three to four inches in its several dimensions. It is composed of a light cancellous tissue, covered in most parts with a thin compact layer, on which, in one place, there appears a thin deposit of such new bone as is formed in inflammation. Where the cancellous tissue is uncovered, cartilage existed in the recent state. 35. 93 The patient was a man about 30 years old. The growth bad been slow and painless, but constant. Over the most prominent part of the tumour large bursal sacs were formed. Perfect recovery followed its removal. 379. Section of a Cancellous Exostosis removed by operation from the lower and inner part of the femur of a man 19 years old. Its exterior is covered by a layer of cartilage. *■ ^'3 The exostosis had been united to the femur by a narrow neck, which, it is probable, was broken by external violence : for, in the operation, the narrow neck of the tumour was found