DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 250 heart; and neither her complaints, nor any symptoms observed during life, indicated the ob- struction in her larynx : though it probably existed for at least two or three dajs before death. Vide No. 1629. CROUP AND DIPHTHERIA. 1616. Part of a Tongue, with the Larynx, Trachea, and primary branches of the Bronchi of a child who died with croup. The mucous surface is covered by a tough membrane, which is scattered in shreds over the larynx: but, from the lower border of the thyroid cartilage downwards, it forms a continuous and perfect tube, which has been laid open in the preparation. In the bronchi it completely fills their canals. XXY- ^0 1617. The Larynx and Trachea of a child who died with croup. A continuous thin and very delicate layer of lymph is deposited upon the mucous membrane lining the larynx, trachea, and main bronchial tubes. xxv. 11 1618. The Larynx, Trachea, and Bronchi of a child who died with croup. The mucous membrane is covered by an abundant but not continuous deposit of lymph, which extends from the inferior surface of the epiglottis to the main bronchi. Tracheotomy was performed for the relief of dyspnoea. xxv. 15 Presented by Herbert Evans, Esq. 1619. The Larynx and Trachea of a child who died with croup. A thin layer of lymph, of a greenish colour, extends from the under surface of the epiglottis to about half an inch below the cricoid cartilage. xxv. 6 1620. Diphtheritic inflammation of the Larynx, Trachea, and Bronchi. 64 From a woman. From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1621. A Larynx and Trachea, of which the mucous membrane is almost uniformly lined by a thin layer of lymph, which is slightly adherent, and is rough and granulated on its inner surface. XXY- 19 The patient, a woman, 25 years old, had had fever. During her recovery, but while she was vcrv weak, symptoms of acute laryngitis ensued, for which laiyngotomy was performed on the third day. She lived twelve hours, and after death all the bronchial tubes were found similarly lined by lymph. The case, related by Sir Wm. Lawrence, is in the London Medical Gazette, vol. xxvi, p. 307, 1845. 1622. The Larynx and Trachea of a child who died with diphtheria. A false- membrane is seen covering a considerable portion of the mucous surface of the n „ xxv. 40 larynx. ULCERATION OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE LARYNX. 1623 A Larynx and Trachea. The whole of the mucous membrane covering the inferior surface of the epiglottis, and lining the larynx and trachea, presents closely set, minute, and, for the most part shallow, ulcers, which have m some places coalesced, so as to give the appearance of diffuse superficial ulcera- tion. Near the posterior extremity of each chorda vocalis there is a small, oval, excavated ulcer, the result probably of tubercular disease. The uvula is bifid. xxv. 3 1624. A Larynx and Trachea, with the base of the Tongue and the adjacent parts The upper two-thirds of the epiglottis has been destroyed by ulceration, and all the adjacent part of the mucous membrane, as far down as the chorda? vocales is deeply ulcerated. There is also a distinct oval ulcer on the mucous membrane, near the posterior attachment of the true vocal cords. The ulcera- tion is irregular on each side, but exactly symmetrical; it does not extend down to the cartflage. xxv- 27 1625. A Larynx, exhibiting a large well-defined ulceration of the mucous mem-