60 DISEASES OF BONES. From a man 60 years old. Four years before death, the growth had the aspect of a small tumour growing within and expanding the walls of the clavicle. After this, enormous masses of a similar medullary substance formed around the clavicle, and in the subcutaneous tissue and other parts of the body. 440. Section of a Clavicle. Tbe sternal extremity is occupied, and surrounded by a small round-cell sarcoma. I- 347 See microscopic specimen, No. 13. 441. Sections of tbe upper balf of a Humerus, and of a Round-cell Sarcoma, which occupies tbe place of tbe sbaft of tbe bone. In one of tbe sections, a small portion of tbe diseased structure, distinct from tbe general mass, bas protruded through tbe wall of tbe bone. In tbe other section, the morbid structure is covered by the articular cartilage of the head of tbe bone. I. 49 See microscopic specimens, No. 14. The tumour in this instance had a constant and regular pulsation, the cause of which was not discerned in the examination of the limb. The case is related by Mr. Stanley, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxviii, p. 304.. London, 1845. SPINDLE, AND MIXED ROUND AND SPINDLE CELL SARCOMATA. 442. Sections of a Tumour and of the portion of the Lower Jaw in which it originated; removed by operation. The portion of the jaw comprises its whole side, from tbe angle to within a short distance of tbe symphysis. The morbid growth consists of a grey, dense, fibrous substance, originating from the alveolar border and from the outer surface of the jaw. Part of the alveolar border of tbe bone has been absorbed; and in this situation the morbid growth appears to extend into its body. The contiguous substance of the jaw is of an ivory-like hardness, and its cancellous texture is consolidated. I. 149 From a female aged 30. 443. Sections of a Tumour which formed in the side of the neck immediately below tbe seat of tbe operation by which tbe parts last described were removed. The tumour consists throughout of a firm fibrous substance. The irregularity of surface and looser texture which it presents in one situation result from tbe ulceration and sloughing of its substance, wbich commenced a short time before death. With the smaller section of the tumour is connected a part of the lower jaw : its texture is sound, but the morbid growth is closely attached to its surface. L -^0 Microscopic examination of this and the preceding specimen showed them to be spindle-cell sarcomata. See microscopic specimens, Nos. 18, 19. 444. Part of a Lower Jaw, including one of its rami and its symphysis, imbedded in a large, firm, dense, pale and obscurely fibrous tumour, near wbich also are one or two smaller tumours of the same kind resting on its surface, but^not connected with the bone. The tumour projects with an ulcerated surface into the side and floor of tbe mouth, displacing the tongue and soft palate, and rising as high as the condyle of tbe jaw. I. 251 Microscopic examination showed that the tumour was a spindle-cell sarcoma. See microscopic specimen, No. 20. This and the preceding specimen were taken alter death from the patient from whom No. 412 was removed. She survived the operation about two years. Presented by Oeorge Ilarrison, Esq. 445. The Base and a portion of the Spine of a left Scapula, removed with a large tumour attached to both its surfaces. A section of the tumour bas been made, that portion of it being removed which lay nearest to the vertebral column : the whole length of the base of the scapula is deeply imbedded in the poi'tion which is preserved. The tumour is of nearly oval form, between six