SERIES XXX. ♦ DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE CEREBRAL MEMBRANES. EFFUSION OF BLOOD ON OR BETWEEN THE MEMBRANES. 2446. A large Clot of Blood between the dura mater and the lateral part of a skull. vi. 39 The blood was effused from the arteria meningea media, which was ruptured by external violence. 2447. Portion of a Brain and its membranes from a lunatic. Blood has been effused between the dura mater and the parietal arachnoid, forming a layer of considerable thickness, firm and partially decolorised. The visceral arachnoid is coated with recently effused lymph. 17 From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2448. A large Clot of Blood, adhering to the internal surface of the dura mater which covered the upper part of one of the hemispheres of the cerebrum. vi. 38 The effusion was in consequence of external injury. Vide No. 2455. Formation of Blood Cysts and False Membranes between the Meninges. 2449. Portion of Dura Mater, exhibiting a newly-formed, thin, and nearly transparent membrane, closely adherent to its internal surface, and consisting of two layers, which form a large sac containing coagulated blood. vi. 45 The patient was a young man who had an attack of apoplexy, followed by paralysis of the right side and occasional convulsions, a short time before death. The effusion of blood com- pressed the right side of the brain. 2450. Portion of Dura Mater, exhibiting a newly-formed membrane upon its internal surface. This membrane lines the whole of the dura mater covering the right hemisphere of the cerebrum; its thickness is about equal to that of the peritoneum, and it is very vascular throughout. It has been completely separated from the dura mater, except along one edge, where it is still adherent, ?? A observed that this edge is insensibly lost upon the dura mater, so that the outer surface of the new membrane and that of the dura mater appear to be continuous The cerebral surface of the membrane is rust-coloured like partially decolorised blood. Towards its lower part the new membrane is thicker than above, and it is here divisible into two distinct layers. vi. \ The patient had been deranged for three years before his death. He had had no sums of inflammation of the membranes of the brain, but, shortly before his death, had he2 of the left side. The arachnoid beneath this layer of membrane was thickened. nemiPlegia ot 2 B 2