SERIES XVI. DISEASES OF THE PERITONEUM, OMENTUM, AND MESENTERY, PERITONITIS AND ITS RESULTS. 1872. Portion of small Intestine, with its Mesentery and a part of the Peritoneum from the adjacent wall of the abdomen. The peritoneum is m every part thickeued and indurated, and its free surface is covered by a large quantity ot false-membrane. Each of the portions here shown is nearly an eighth ot an inch in thickness, and is formed of tough, coarsely laminated tissue. m I. 6 1873. Portion of thickened Peritoneum, from tbe abdominal walls of the patient from whom the preceding specimen was taken. It is similarly thickened, and its internal surface is lined by lymph recently effused. XTL 4 1874. Portion of small Intestine, exhibiting the results of chronic peritonitis. Two of its convolutions are closely united, and are enveloped by shreddy membrane formed of recently organized lymph. In the substance of the false- membrane, as well as in the peritoneum, there are numerous miliary tubercles 1875. Portion of a Liver, with long, slender, cord-like adhesions between its peritoneal covering and that of the diaphragm. xvm- TUBERCLE. , , , , -n A1 1876. Portion of small Intestine injected. Its canal has been laid open. Along the cut margin its walls are considerably thickened, and the layers of which they are composed can be easily recognized. Their thickness is chiefly due to the deposit of masses of tubercle in the sub-serous coat, to which the diseased con- dition appears to be limited. XVI- 1877 Portion of small Intestine injected. There is a deposit of miliary tubercles in the sub-serous tissue. They are most abundant at the reflection of the mesentery and by their white colour contrast with the surrounding vascularity, which, however, is not greater in their vicinity than in other parts of the canal XVI. 1ZZ 1878. Portion of a Jejunum, injected and dried. Its opposite peritoneal surfaces are adherent, and miliary tubercles are formed between its coats and m the substance of the false-membrane. XVI- Di