THEIR PELVES, AND THE URETERS. 361 2383. The opposite Kidney, showing a similar change. The specimens were taken from a man, aged 47 years. He had been well until a week before hie admission to the Hospit al, when he was attacked by hematuria, When admitted, he passed a considerable quantity of urine, which was of sp. gr. 1010, pale, and contained a large amount of albumen. Two days later, uramiic coma developed itself, from which he died.—See Matthew Ward Book, July, 1879 j also Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. xxxi, 1880. 2384. Section of a Kidney, in the whole substance of which, membranous cysts, of various sizes, varying from that of a pin's head to that of a hazel nut, are thickly scattered. They contained a yellow, viscid, and transparent fluid. Their walls are thin and in close apposition. Only thin layers of the proper substance of the kidney could be discovered intervening between some of the cysts, and forming part of the exterior cortical layer. The vessels of the kidney are injected. xxvi. 20 2385. A section of the other Kidney, of the same person, uninjected. It is similarly and equally diseased ; and, like its fellow, nearly three times as large as a kidney of ordinary size. xxvi. 21 2386. Section of a Kidney of a sheep, containing numerous cysts, varying in size from that of a pea to that of a large walnut. When divided, several ounces of a clear, pale, yellow fluid, like serum, escaped. xxvi. 36 2387. A shrivelled, contracted Kidney, consisting of an agglomeration of small c7sfcs- xxvi. 35 The urine (secreted of course by the other kidney) contained albumen. 2388. A small shrunken Kidney, consisting of an agglomeration of small cysts. The other kidney was hypertrophied. HEMORRHAGE INTO PELVIS OF KIDNEY. 2389. The right Kidney of a man, aged 25 years, who died of purpura. The section displays a large clot of blood which fills the whole of the pelvis and the calices. A drawing is preserved, No. 328. MORBID GROWTHS, &c 2390. A Medullary Cancer of the Kidney. The tumour is soft, white, brain- like. The arrangement of the growth in large and small alveoli is seen on the surface of the section. The pelvis and calices are filled by the morbid growth which projected into the ureter. A thin layer of gland tissue is still seen at the lower margin of the organ. Microscopic Examination. — Broad trabecular of connective tissue form We alveoli crowded with large granular epitheliaMike cells, which contain one or more nuclei ° ' The kidney was taken from a woman, aged 60 years. A tumour had existed in the right loin for sixteen months. Hematuria was the first symptom which attracted attention, but it did not afterwards recur. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 95. 2391. Section of a mass of soft Medullary Substance, mixed with blood which had its ongm m one of the kidneys of a child, about 10 years old, and nearly failed the cavity of the abdomen. XXVI 2392. Medullary Tumour involving a kidney. I95 From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. HYDATID PASSED IN THE URINE. 2393. Portions of numerous Acephalocyst Hydatids, which were discharged with