425 DISEASES OF THE SCROTUM. similar growths had formed and had been shed. After attaining a certain size, the base became surrounded by a ring of ulceration, and at length the least violence sufficed to detach them. On the skin in the neighbourhood small dark warty growths were scattered. These had appeared in the last twenty years. EPITHELIOMA. 2823. Portion of a Scrotum, on the surface of which there is an elevated, oval, warty growth, of firm texture, with a slightly granular, smooth, convex surface, which was vascular but not ulcerated. The margins of the growth project a little over the surface of the adjacent skin. By the side of this growth is one of smaller size and superficially ulcerated. xxvm. 57 From a young chimney-sweeper. 2824. Portion of the Scrotum of a chimney-sweeper, of which a large part of the surface is covered by a very elevated papillated epithelioma of firm compact substance, the surface of which is nodular, deeply fissured, and ulcerated. xxvm. 58 2825. Portion of the Scrotum of a chimney-sweeper, in which, by the further progress of the disease shown in the two preceding specimens, there is a deep epitheliomatous ulcer, with thickened sinuous margins. Along one margin of the ulcer there are several small warty growths, like that in No. 2823, and superficially ulcerated. xxvm. 59 2826. Portions of Skin affected with epithelioma, the larger portion from the scrotum; the smaller from the perineum. On the latter, are two small can- cerous warts, one prominent and branched, the other nearly subcutaneous. On the former, the cancerous disease appears partly in deep ulceration, partly in the form of large warty growths. The margins of the ulcer, shown especially on the right side, are, for the most part, sinuous, raised, and everted; its base appears coarsely warty. The chief warty growth is at the lower part of the specimen. Its surface is nodular and fissured, and from many parts of it there arise conical, curved, sharp-pointed bodies, about one-third of an inch in length, firm and white, like the strong papill® of a carnivorous tongue. The cancerous structures extend to a depth of from one-eighth to one-fourth of an inch. Their microscopic constituents are those of epithelioma. xxviii. 61 The patient -was a healthy-looting chimney-sweeper, 25 years old. He had observed one of the small warts in the perineum for four years. The disease in the scrotum had existed only one year ; and its progress was so rapid, both by ulceration and by sub-cutaneous extension, that it was necessary to remove all the skin of the scrotum, except a small piece at its lower part, a portion of the skin of the perineum, the prepuce, and all the skin of the penis, except a narrow ring round its middle, and nearly all the skin of the mons veneris. The ri<dit testicle, also, to which the base of the ulcer adhered, was removed ; and three enlarged inguinal glands. The patient recovered from the operation, and the wounds were healed in three months.