PATHOLOGICAL MICROSCOPIC SPECIMENS. 545 TUMOURS OF BONES. OSTEOMATA. 8a. Section of a large ivory-like Osseous Tumour from the Orbit. In the hardest parts, on the surface, there are no Haversian canals, and the lacunae are small, flattened, almost obliterated, and arranged parallel to the surface ; most of them have no canaliculi. In the less hard parts the canals are very large, as are also the lacunae, which are not arranged regularly in circles around them; and everywhere the lacunas are of irregular or distorted forms. Presented by Professor Clark. The tumour is in the Museum of the University of Cam- bridge. A Drawing of the tumour is preserved, No. 15. 8b. Section of a similar tumour, removed from a girl's mastoid process. The lacunae are perfectly formed, and very large; arranged in some parts closely, in some very widely apart. Where there are Haversian canals, there are generally a few lamellae around them, and between these, lacunae are placed, as in the normal state. ENCHONDROMATA. 9. Enchoudroma of a Femur. From Specimen No. 418. 10. A similar Specimen. Prom Specimen No. 423. SARCOMATA. 11. A small round-cell Sarcoma of the Skull. From Specimen No. 437. 12. A small round-cell Sarcoma of the Clavicle. From Specimen No. 438. 13. A similar Specimen. From Specimen No. 440. 14. A round-cell Sarcoma of a Humerus. From Specimen No. 441. 15. The peripheral portion of a round-cell Sarcoma of a Femur, in places showing patches of calcification. 16. The central portion of the same tumour. 17. A small round-cell Sarcoma of the lower extremity of a Femur, in places calcified, and containing masses of hyaline and fibro-cartilage. 18. A spinclle-cell Sarcoma of the lower Jaw. From Specimen No. 442. 19. A similar Specimen taken from a tumour in the Neck, which recurred after the removal of the Jaw. From Specimen No. 443. 20. A spindle-cell Sarcoma of the lower Jaw. From Specimen No. 444. 21. A Tumour of the Femur, consisting of round cells and small spindle-cells The round cells are in places enclosed in alveolar spaces, formed by spindle-cells! From Specimen No. 447. 2 N