252 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. almost continuous ulceration, which in some parts is superficial, in others extends deeply, and which at one point has formed an irregular opening through the walls of the trachea. xxv. 23 The patient died with phthisis. Tracheotomy was rendered necessary by imminent danger of suffocation; and the signs of the disease of the larynx had nearly concealed those of the disease of the lungs. The case is related by Sir G-eorge Burrows, Bart., in the London Medical Gazette, vol. xxi, p. 50. London, 1837. 1633. Portion of a Larynx, exhibiting an irregular, probably tubercular ulcera- tion of the mucous membrane covering the vocal cords; the remaining tissue is so thickened that the rima glottidis is nearly closed. xxv. 2 1633a. A Larynx. The whole of the upper part of the larynx, from the base of the epiglottis to the glottis, presents a deep, irregular ulceration of the mucous membrane ; the false vocal cords are destroyed. The true vocal cords are almost completely destroyed, and the mucous membrane below them is super- ficially ulcerated. From a man, aged 39 years, who died of phthisis.—See Post Mortem Boole, vol. viii, p. 113. THICKENING AND INDURATION OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 1634. The Tongue and Larynx of a man who for some years before his death had suffered severely from syphilis. He died suddenly, apparently suffocated. The mucous membrane covering the larynx, epiglottis, base of the tongue, and surrounding parts, is much thickened and indurated. The papillas circum- vallatse are considerably enlarged. xxv. 36 A drawing is preserved, No. 124. Presented by Mr. Langmore. STRICTURE OF THE LARYNX. 1635. The Larynx and Trachea of a man on whom the operation of tracheotomy was performed twelve years before death. The opening into the trachea is situated immediately below the cricoid cartilage. The rima glottidis is almost closed by the thickening and contraction of the mucous membrane lining the larynx. The chordaa vocales also are so much shortened that the arytaanoid cartilages are within a quarter of an inch of the angle of the thyroid cartilage. The trachea is healthy. xxv. 12 The patient continued to the time of his death to breathe easily through a canula in the opening made in the operation. NECROSIS OF THE LARYNGEAL CARTILAGES. 1636. A Larynx, in which there is necrosis with separation of a large portion of the cricoid cartilage. Previous to the necrosis the cartilage had become calcified. The separated portion lies in a large cavity like an abscess in the walls of the larynx. xxv* * 1637. A Larynx, exhibiting the destruction of great part of the thyroid, cricoid, and arytsenoid cartilages, by ulceration. xxv. 4 Previous to the ulceration the diseased cartilages were ossified. The patient died suffocated, after a short illness. The mucous membrane about the diseased cartilages was very cedeinatous. 1638. A Larynx, in which an abscess formed around the greater part of the thyroid cartilage. A large portion of the right ala of the cartilage is destroyed bv ulceration; nearly all the rest of both its surfaces is exposed, and there is a laro-e opening of communication between the abscess and the interior of the larynx. XXT- *® From a man, 27 years old, who had ulceration of the tonsils and the back of the pharynx. He died from gradual exhaustion. 1639. A Larynx, exhibiting necrosis and separation of the left arytaenoid carti- lage, and of part of the cricoid cartilage. Previous to the necrosis the separated