SERIES XXXIV. —*— DISEASES OE THE EAR AND ITS APPENDAGES. 2670. An external Ear, the seat of a large growth of epithelioma.^ The disease occnpies the whole thickness of more than half the auricle, projecting alike on its external and internal surfaces, and leaving only its upper and anterior borders and the lobule free. It forms a flat, lobed, and fissured growth, the overhanging margins of which are, in parts, sinuous, and have everted the adjacent skin of the auricle. The middle of the posterior border of the auricle is,'with part of the cancer, completely destroyed by ulceration. The general texture of the cancer is soft, shreddy, and very vascular; the microscopic structure was well marked, according to the type of epithelioma. x. 8 A small superficial ulcer, with a scab, had existed on the outer surface of the ear for six years, the scab being frequently detached and removed. The growth here shown had been m progress of increase and ulceration for six months before it was removed. The patient was a strong man, 76 years old. # # # # * * * * 2671. A portion of a Temporal Bone showing cerumen in the external meatus. x. 20 INFLAMMATION OF THE INTERNAL EAR, AND ITS EFFECTS. PERFORATION OF THE MEMBRANA TYMPANI. 2672. The petrous portion of a Temporal Bone. The membrana tympani is thickened, and there is a small perforation in front of the lower end of the handle of the malleus. The mucous membrane of the tympanum was thick and red, binding together the ossicula, and preventing their free movement. The cavity was filled with viscid mucus. The upper wall of the tympanum is much thicker than usual. The labyrinth is healthy. x. 13 From an adult male who died from tubercle in the brain. Vide Nos. 2678 and 2679. DRIED MUCUS, AND MEMBRANOUS BANDS IN THE TYMPANUM. 2673. Part of the petrous portion of a Temporal Bone, showing the cavity of tympanum intersected by thin bands, probably dried mucus. x. 11 2674. The petrous portion of a Temporal Bone, showing membranous bands in the tympanum and mastoid cells. x. 14 2675. The petrous portion of a Temporal Bone. The cavity of the tympanum is intersected by bands. x- ^ TYMPANIC ABSCESS. 2676. Section through the right Temporal Bone, exposing the mastoid cells and tympanum. The membrana tympani is destroyed. The tympanum and mastoid