GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 511 3369. A Cyst removed from a dark-red Cow. It lay beneath the skin, imbedded in a large quantity of fat, in front of the shoulder joint. It is filled with hair and sebaceous matter. xxxv. 11 Presented by Mr. Ilartill. 3370. An Ovary, in which is a single cyst containing a mass of fatty matter, with stiff, pale hairs imbedded in it. xxxi. 3 3371. A Cyst (? dermoid) with thin tough walls, which was removed from beneath the tongue. It projected into the mouth, and extended so far down- wards as to be prominent in the front of the neck. Its contents are a firm grumous and granulated suet-like substance. XXXV. 25 3372. The Pelvis of a female infant, with a Cyst attached to it. The cyst is about six inches in diameter, and is formed of dense membrane, covered with integument. It is firmly attached to the inferior border of the walls of the pelvis, and a small portion or lobe of it extends into the pelvis between the rectum and the sacrum. At the upper part, small cysts in its walls project into the cavity of the main cyst. These smaller cysts contained a serous fluid; the larger cavity contained serous fluid and blood, and is lined with a fine trans- parent membrane. The sacrum and coccyx are perfect, but firmly attached to the posterior and upper part of the cyst. No communication existed between the cyst and the canal for the spinal cord formed by the dura mater; but, external to the dura mater, there were communications between the cyst and the spinal canal" of the sacrum and coccyx, through some of the foramina for the anterior sacral nerves. Certain of these nerves also were traced to the interior of the cyst. The child was born alive at the full period. In its passage through the inferior aperture of the pelvis, the tumour burst, and discharged a large quantity of sanguineous fluid. After birth the child cried and moved freely: but it lived only two hours, dying, apparently, in con- sequence of the haemorrhage from the cyst. Presented by Thomas Wormald, Esq. 3373. Portion of a Spine, with the Pelvis, and a Congenital Tumour, from a child 2 years old. The tumour measures fourteen and a-half inches in circum- ference : it projects from the lower part and right side of the pelvis ; and is composed of several oval and spheroidal lobes. One portion is solid, and resembles a fibrous tumour of the uterus. Another, much larger, consists of two cysts, one enclosed within the other, and both having dense, fibrous, laminated walls, a quarter of an inch thick. They contained a clear yellow fluid. The upper and narrow portion of the tumour is solid, and extends into the cavity of the pelvis through its inferior aperture. It reaches nearly to the top of the sacrum, and encompasses the bladder and rectum. The sacrum and other parts of the spine are perfect: no communication exists between the tumour and the canal for the spinal cord ; and its connections with the sacrum and the pelvic organs are by loose cellular tissue. vol. ii. a. 129 The child was in other respects healthy and well formed. The tumour at birth was nearly as large as an orange, and increased in proportion to the child's growth. Death occurred during measles. This and the preceding specimen are described by Mr. Stanley, in the Medico-CMrurgical Transactions, vol. xxiv, p. 231, 1841. Presented by J. F. Harding, Esq. 3374. A Congenital Cystic Sacral Tumour, springing from the buttock posterior to the sacrum and coccyx—which are well developed—not extending into the pelvis, and having apparently no communication with the spinal canal. The right section shows some large cysts, which contained a brownish fluid: from