DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 215 1424. Arteries from the base of a Brain, the seat of extensive atheromatous disease. ^' From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. For other specimens, vide Nos. 1413, 1426, 1429, 1447, 1538, 1553, 1554, 1571a. EXFOLIATION AND BREAKING- DOWN OF THE INNER COAT (Atheroma- tous Ulcer). 1425. An Aorta, exhibiting extensive and large circular ulcerations of its inner coat, with deposits of soft and earthy substance in its thickened tissue, and between it and the middle coat. XIII. 72 1426. A Thoracic Aorta, exhibiting an abundant deposit of earthy matter in its coats. The earthy matter forms, in many places, thin, round, and oval plates, some of which lie uncovered on the inner surface of the artery, while beneath others, shallow cavities are shown tilled with soft grumous yellowish substance. XIII. 1 1427. Portion of an Aorta, in which a great quantity of atheromatous material is deposited beneath the lining coat. In places this has been converted into cal- careous plates. Elsewhere it has softened, and the inner membrane having given way, irregular, and, as it were, worm-eaten cavities have resulted. These were tilled partly by broken-down atheromatous material, and partly by shreds of fibrin, probably deposited from the blood. Below the upper of the two cavities is a minute crack where the inner coat has given way over some deposit, into which a bristle is introduced. 48 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1428. Portion of an Abdominal Aorta, in the coats of which there is abundant deposit of atheromatous material, with ulceration over the principal deposits. Between the renal and inferior mesenteric arteries the ulceration has extended through the inner and middle coats of the aorta to its outer coat, which is dilated into a small pouch. xiii. 45 1429. The Abdominal portion of an Aorta, with the Iliac Arteries, from an aged man. There is abundant deposit of both soft substance and earthy matter in the coats of all the arteries ; and in the inner coat there are large irregular patches of ulceration. The aorta exhibits a partial dilatation just above the bifurcation. The common iliac and the internal iliac arteries, in addition to the above described alterations in their coats, are dilated into distinct pouches. XIII. 94 Vide Nos. 1322, 1473, 1545. DEPOSIT OF FIBRIN UPON ATHEROMATOUS PATCHES. 1430. The Arch of an Aorta, exhibiting numerous deposits of soft and earthy matter in its coats, and a mass of fibrin, about the size of half a walnut, so closely adherent to the inner surface of the artery as to present the appearance of a growth from it. JNo other fibrin was deposited in the artery. XIII. 60 From a man, 38 years old, who died with phthisis. 1431. Fibrin deposited upon the rough surface of an atheromatous aorta. That next to the arterial wall is of a pale fawn-colour, whilst that more superficial is of the deep crimson hue of recently coagulated blood. xiii. 134 1432. An Abdominal Aorta, the seat of atheromatous disease. In the upper part of the preparation there is a small plate which has undergone calcareous degeneration. By the side of this is a firm, decolorised clot, which clung firmly to the wall of the vessel. Below, it fitted into a fissure formed between the inner and middle coats. The lining coat is here partially detached the detached portion being thickened by a deposit of atheroma. ' 45 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D.