98 DISEASES OF JOINTS. These changes were probably the result of rheumatoid arthritis. (In Case G.) 672. Parts of the Ulnee of an old woman. An exactly similar portion of the articular cartilage of each ulna has been absorbed : and the space thus left on the surface of each is filled by a vascular growth like a process of the synovial , II. 4/ membrane. The specimens are represented in the Medico-Chirurgical TremsaeUons,vol.xxv, pi. U, f 1 2 • where they are also described by Sir J. Paget, together with Nos. 580, 581, bJi>, /uo, in this'Series ; Nos. 404, 405, in Series I; and other specimens of symmetrical disease. 673. Portions of a Radius and an Ulna. There has been ulceration of the sur- faces by which they articulated. The ulcerated surfaces, hardened and polished, have become remarkably grooved and adapted to each other, so that the new joint which they form may have permitted a very free movement ot the radius upon the ulna. The surface by which the ulna articulated with the overhanging border of the radius is similarly polished: the carpal surface ot the radius is healthy. (In Case Or.) 674 A Hip-Joint. In consequence of Rheumatoid Arthritis the acetabulum is oreatlv enlarged and has assumed an oval form. The head of the femur is enlarged and adapted in its form to the acetabulum. All the articular cartilage is removed, and the surfaces of the bones are smooth, hard, and polished. Ine capsule of the joint is thickened, aud upon its internal surface around the neck of the femur there are several groups of slender pendulous growths. II. 675 A Hip-Joint, in which there are portions of hard cartilaginous and osseous substance They are fixed to the inner surface of the capsule, and to the anterior part of the neck of the femur, by adhesions of tough fibrous tissue; their contiguous surfaces are exactly fitted to one another, and they form a nodulated, oval mass, nearly three inches long, one surface of which rested upon and was adapted to the neck of the femur. The capsule is thickened and its interior is beset with slender pedunculated processes. n. 5b From a woman upwards of 70 years old. The mass formed a distinct tumour projecting m the groin. 676 Sections of the head, neck, and part of the shaft of a Femur. The neck of' the bone is considerably shortened, and there is irregular osseous deposit upon its external surface. IIL It is uncertain whether these changes were consequent on injury. The external appearance of the bone might indicate tbat there had been a fracture of the neck ; but the uniform character of its tissue, as shown on the surface of the sections, is opposed to such a conclusion. 677 A section of the upper part of a Femur, from a man who had for four years suffered with rheumatic pains in and about the hip. A large portion of the articular cartilage has been completely removed from the middle of the head of the femur. The bone thus exposed is unnaturally hard ; its surface is polished and the morbid hardness extends for about a line in depth. Of the remainino- cartilage, some is softened, thick, succulent, and nodulated on its surface while that round the margin of the exposed bone is very thm; other Darts ao-ain, are marked with grooves, like wrinkles, radiating to the outer mar£rin°of the head; and others are converted into a fibrous tissue, which hanes in shreds from the surface of the bone. New bone, in hard irregular nodu'les, is formed around the margin of the head, and on the neck of^ the femur. From the patient from whom the specimens of medullary disease of the ilium, in the preced- ing Series, Nos. 501 to 501 were taken.