159 DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. the front of the intervertebral substance, and then coalescing ; for in these vertebra the growths from their several margins have met and are adapted^ but not united, to each other. 1081. Portion of a Spine, exhibiting ulceration, with deposit of new bone, upon the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the lower lumbar vertebra. iv. to 1082. Sections of two Lumbar Vertebra, in the body of one of which is an irregular circumscribed cavity, formerly the seat of abscess, or possibly, ot necrosis The cavity opens anteriorly, through the body of the vertebra, and posteriorly by a wide apertur* into the spinal canal. In the neighbourhood of the cavity the adjacent surfaces of the vertebra are thickened, indurated, and in part united by hard new bone, New bone is also abundantly formed on the anterior surfaces of their bodies. D- 1^ (In Case C.) Vide Nos. 1102, 1103. 1083. A Sacrum and Coccyx, firmly united by bone. The coccyx deviates con- siderably to the left side. D* ^ (In Case C.) 1084. Part of the Spine of a Horse, in which the bodies of two lumbar vertebra are united by a strong thick arch of bone, extending like a bridge over the side and front of the intervertebral space. The portion of the intervertebral liga- ment beneath the bridge is absent; but there is no appearance of injury or disease of the adjacent bones. D- 6 Several rears before death, the horse received a severe injury to the back. Presented by R. S. Wells, Esq. (In Case C.) 1085. Portion of a Spine in the dorso-lumbar region, in which there is an irre- gular formation of bone along the margins of some of the vertebra, forming a lip-like projection. From a man aged 35 years, whose left knee-joint was excised for rheumatoid-arthritis. The articulation is preserved in specimen, Series II, No. 693. 1086. Portion of a Spine in the dorsal region, where there was a slight lateral curvature. There is a formation of bone springing from the margins of the vertebra on the right side and bridging over the intervertebral cartilage. Two of the vertebra on the left side of the bodies show the commencement of the same formation. From a middle-aged man. His ribs were beaded; there was no evidence of rheumatoid disease on superficial examination of the other joints. Only the portion of the spine preserved was affected. Vide also Nos. 1120, 1121, 1125, 1128. 1087. Part of a Spine, with portions of the Ribs. The bodies of nearly all ilie- vertebra are united by layers of bone deposited on their anterior surfaces, and projecting with smooth round surfaces in front of the intervertebral spaces. Five of the ribs are similarly united, by their heads and tubercles, to the bodies and transverse processes of the vertebra. The articular processes are also firmly anchylosed. d. 33 (In Case C.) 1088. Three Dorsal Vertebra, united by bridge-like portions of bone extending between the anterior and lateral surfaces of their bodies, and forming con- siderable projections, like exostoses, in front of the intervertebral spaces. d. 12 (fn Case C.)