DISEASES OF BONES. 52 attached to its extremity. The bony growth was immediately surrounded by a soft and fibrous substance which formed part of an external tumour projecting from beneath the nail. L From a man aged 30 years. 392. The terminal Phalanx of a Great Toe, which was removed by operation. The nail is raised and pushed aside by an exostosis beneath it. A small portion of the growth has been removed for the purpose of showing its structure. i. 107 Presented by Robert Liston, Esq. 393. Section of the terminal Phalanx of a Great Toe. A small exostosis has grown from the anterior and upper part of the bone, and has elevated the nail: it is formed of cancellous tissue surrounded by a thin layer of compact substance. r" 394. Section of the terminal Phalanx of a Little Toe, and of an exostosis, rather larger than the toe itself, which has grown from the extremity of its dorsal surface, lifting up the nail. The greater part of the tumour is formed of a closely cancellous bone, like that of the phalanx itself; the remainder, forming its exterior -portion, consists of tough fibrous tissue, like thickened periosteum. r I. 277 395. The other Section of the same Phalanx and Tumour, macerated and dried. i. 278 The patient was a woman, about 25 years old, The tumour had been growing regularly, but with scarcely any pain, for two years. Vide Nos. 3257 to 3259, Series L. DIFFUSED OSSEOUS GROWTHS (Diffused Osteomata), 396. A Diffused Osteoma, which has grown into the frontal sinus. I. 316 From a young woman, aged 20, who was admitted to the Hospital with protrusion of the left eye due to the projection of the osseous growth at the upper and inner angle of the orbit The protrusion of the eye had been first observed three years previously. A portion of the growth was with difficulty sawn off, with the hope of producing necrosis and separation of the whole mass, but the patient died of meningitis. 397. Sections of the Bones of a Face, exhibiting an Osseous Growth filling up" the maxillary sinuses. The sections through the sinuses show a small cavity remaining in each, indicating, as the disease of the adjacent bones also does, that *their obliteration is the consequence, not of the growth of tumours into them, but of the thickening of their walls. The new bone by which they are increased in thickness is hard, nearly solid, and heavy; it is almost all formed on their inner surfaces; only a few small similar growths spring from their outer surfaces, and project on the face and into one of the orbits. The septum nasi and spongy bones are similarly thickened, enlarged, and very dense in their texture. L 62 398. A superior Maxillary Bone, in which the cavity of the antrum is completely filled up by a growth of porous or very finely cancellous bone. The external surface of the maxillary bone is superficially tuberculated and porous, and its w^alls are changed into bone of the same texture as that which occupies the place of the antrum. The disease is attended with general, but irregular enlargement of the maxillary bone ; its alveolar portion alone retains a nearly natural form. The palate-bone is healthy. I. 259 The patient was a girl 15 years old. Enlargement of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone had been observed for eight months, and was still increasing. The general health appeared good, and the disease was painless. The upper jaw was removed, and ten days after the operation the patient died with erysipelas- The case is related in Mr. Stanley's Treatise on Diseases of the Bones, p. 297.