DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 200 partially divided, and above the seat of the ligature is a conical coagulum, which appeal's laminated, and is loosely attached to the wall of the artery. XIII. 6 1390. Portion of an Artery, exhibiting the division of its middle and internal coats by three different kinds of ligature, viz., the large round, the small round, and the flat ligature. The ligatures employed were composed of the same mate- rials as those which are tied round the portion of artery by the side of that on which the experiment was made. The small round ligature, which is in the middle, made the cleanest and most complete division of the coats; the division by the flat ligature is uneven, incomplete, and attended by partial separation of the adjacent part of the divided coats. xiii. 33 The experiment was made on a dead artery. 1391. A Femoral Artery, the coats of which have abundant earthy deposits in them, and show the effects of a ligature placed round it a few days before death. The ligature was applied at a little distance from the extremity of the artery, and it has divided the inner and middle coats. For two inches above the ligature the artery is filled by coagulum. xiii. 66 1392. A Femoral Artery and Vein. They were cut through in an amputation, and the artery was tied eleven hours before death. The preparation shows the division of the internal and middle coats of the artery by the ligature, and the retraction of their divided borders within the adjacent parts of the canal. xiii. 118 Vide No. 496, Series I. FORMATION AND ADHESION OF COAGULUM. 1393. A left Carotid Artery, with a portion of the arch of the Aorta. A ligature was placed around the carotid artery, in the middle of its course, six weeks before death, and it had been separated without haemorrhage. A firm cylindrical clot adheres to the inside of the artery, and extends from half an inch below the situation of the ligature downwards to the aorta. A similar clot is continued upwards within the artery, from the situation of the ligature to the origin of a small branch. The extremities of the divided artery from which the lio-ature separated are soft and pulpy, and there was not in either of them the least adhesion of the opposite sides of the vessel. xiii. 82 The artery was tied in the hope of curing epilepsy in an elderly gentle man, who had found that by compressing his carotids he could avert the epileptic seizure. He died with abscess extending into the mediastinum along the sheath of the carotid and jugular vessels. 1394. A right common Carotid Artery, with the ligature surrounding it, the latter having been applied five days before death for the arrest of profuse haemorrhage from an extensive cancerous ulceration, which occupied the upper part of the neck and the internal maxillary region. Fibrinous, spiral coagula exist above and below the point ligatured. xm. 136 The patient never rallied from the effect produced by the loss of blood, but became paralyzed and sank gradually. ' 1 J 1395. The right common Carotid Artery of a man, tied five days before death. It shows a long conical clot in the lower portion, commencing from the ligature. xiii. 156 1396. Iliac and Femoral Arteries, with an Aneurism at the commencement of the Femoral Artery, for the cure of which the external Iliac was tied The ligature was applied about half an inch below the division of the common iliac. The upper end of the artery is closed by a small portion of dry clot • its lower end is closed by a conical clot an inch long and closely adherent to its p