DISEASES OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. 475 nipple The part of the tumour nearest to the skin has softened, and exhibits on its section a small irregular cavity which was full of grumous semifluid substance. There are smaller and less completely softened spots m other parts of the growth. The skin and other tissues are healthy; but the nipple is retracted. SXXIT' 12 From a lady, between 40 and 50 years old. The disease returned before the wound of the operation had completely healed. 3171. Section of a Scirrhous Cancer of the whole mammary gland from a man. The cancer forms an irregular, rounded mass, nearly two inches in diameter; it is intensely hard, pale-greyish, with branching white lines and small yellow spots. It has extended to that part of the skin which is stretched tensely over it, and to the nipple, which is depressed and enlarged on the centre of its surface. At its deepest part fibres of the great pectoral muscle are included in its substance. XXXIV. 26 The patient was 48 years old, of healthy aspect. He had observed the disease for six months. It had increased quickly, and had been painful for two months. Two axillary glands u ore similarly diseased, and were removed with the breast. The patient recovered from the operation. A drawing (No. 529) shows the appearance of the disease when recent. 3172. Scirrhous Cancer of the mammary gland from, a man. The disease presents nearly the same characters as in the specimen last described, but is less extensive. The skin over the cancer is excoriated, and the nipple is retracted. xxxiv. 27 The patient was 45 years old, and the disease had been observed in progress for about thirteen months before his death. He had extensive cancerous formations in the spine and other bones. Part of his spine is in Series V, No. 1131. 3173. Sections of a Mammary Gland, the whole of which is occupied by Scirrhous Cancer. In the upper specimen one half of the gland is shown dissected from the parts around it; in the lower, the other half is embedded in the surrounding fat. The former specimen shows that the shape of the gland is retained, even while its structures, with the exception of little more than its larger ducts, are replaced by cancer structures forming an intensely hard and compact substance. The latter specimen shows, especially, the deep retraction of the cancerous nipple, the small size of the cancerous mammary gland, the branchings oi its larger ducts, and the abundant fat around them. xxxiv. 30 The patient was about 50 years old. The disease had probably been in progress for about six months before its removal. It recurred in two years and three quarters, and she died rather more than three yoars after the operation. 3174. Section of a Mammary Gland, with a well-marked example of rapidly grow- ing Scirrhous Cancer. The whole breast appears to have been large. The can- cerous mass, of large size and oval form, occupies the greater part of the gland, and is imbedded in the surface of the pectoral muscle. The section of the cancer shows a texture muck less compact and dense than that of the preceding specimen, and varied in aspect by the intermingling of the white lobed portions of the mammary gland, involved in the cancerous infiltration. A. section of a similarly cancerous lymphatic gland is suspended above the section of the breast. xxxiv. 29 3175. Scirrhous Cancer of the right Mammary Gland removed from a man, aged 62 years. It had existed for twelve months. Five or six enlarged and indurated glands, in which, however, no cancer structure could be detected, were at the same time removed from the axilla. The tumour forms a circumscribed oval mass surrounded by adipose tissue. 3176. Ulcerated Scirrhous Cancer of the left male Breast, removed from a man,