DISEASES OF BONES. 7 (In Case E.) narrowing of the medullary tube, and consolidation of the medullary texture by thickening of the cancelli. The periosteum is detached, showing its thickened state upon the diseased part of the bone. L 0ii 42. The other Section of the same Tibia. The enlargement is caused by the formation of a thick layer of new bone, like a node with a coarsely-nodulated surface, round the middle of the shaft. In the corresponding part of the medullary tissue, the osseous filaments and lamellae are thickened and indurated, and have encroached on the medullary spaces till they are nearly obliterated. A. 19 (In Case E.) 43. Portion of a Fibula partially enlarged. A- 21 (In Case E.) FORMATION OF NEW BONE RESULTING FROM THE IRRITATION OF ULCERS OF THE INTEGUMENTS, &c. 44. Lower two-thirds of a Tibia and Fibula from a man, who had long suffered from a chronic ulcer of the leg, on account of which the limb was amputated. 45. Lower halves of a Tibia and Fibula firmly united for two inches above the ankle-joint, by the growth of a large irregular mass of bone from their posterior and outer surfaces. There is a deep groove for the passage of the tendons of the peronsei muscles behind this growth. A. 47 A large ulcer had for many years existed on the outer and back part of the leg immediately above the ankle-joint. (In Case E.) 46. A Tibia exhibiting an irregular thickening of its walls in the middle and anterior part of its shaft. An ulcer in the soft parts covei'ing the thickened bone had existed many years, and on this account the limb was amputated. Two distinct changes may be here recognized ; namely, thickening by separation of the layers of the wall, and deposit of new bone on its exterior. A. 40 (In Case E.) 47. Sections of a Tibia, exhibiting a circumscribed thickening and induration of its anterior wall; probably the effect of an ulcer of the investing soft parts. a. 23 (In Case E.) 47a. Section of a Tibia similarly diseased. A. 24 (In Case E.) 48. Lower half of a Tibia, of which the walls are thickened and increased in density. The chief increase is on the anterior aspect of the shaft, where, also, the surface of the new bone is peculiarly rough, coral-like, and spongy ; characters indicative of new bone formed in circumstances of constant irritation. a. 48 The irritation arose in this case from an ulcer of the integuments, which had existed for a long time pi'evious to the amputation of the limb. (In Case E.) 49. Portion of a Tibia partially enlarged. On its front surface there is a circum- scribed oval elevation of new bone with an abrupt margin, over which it is probable there was an ulcer of the soft parts. A- 22