30 DISEASES OF BONES. NECROSIS, THE RESULT OF ULCERS OF THE INTEGUMENTS. 227. A Section of a Tibia with the surrounding soft parts injected. There is a chronic ulcer on the anterior surface of the leg. The skin around the ulcer is thin and adherent to the bone. The surface of the tibia is rough and thickened. At the base of the ulcer a considerable portion of black necrosed bone is exposed. On the surface of the section the necrosis is seen to extend through the whole thickness of the shaft, and a fracture passes through the necrosed bone, which is separated from the healthy bone by a distinct line of demarcation. The shaft of the tibia below the necrosed portion is sclerosed, and between the sclerosed and healthy bone there is a thin area of rarefied bone. The upper part of the shaft is condensed to a less degree. From a woman, aged 48 years. When eight years old, she had necrosis of the tibia ; a/piece of necrosed bone several inches long was removed, and she recovered completely. Three months ago the scar broke down, and an nicer formed, which exposed the bone. Fracture through the necrosed bone subsequently occurred and amputation below the knee was performed. There was no evidence of constitutional or acquired syphilis.—See Casualty Ward Book, vol. iv, p. 25, and President Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 153. 228. A section of a Tibia exhibiting Necrosis of the whole thickness of the shaft- beneath an ulcer of the integuments. Above the necrosed portion, the anterior surface of the shaft is exposed and carious. A portion of the posterior surface of the shaft is also necrosed, and a cavity exists here beneath the periosteum, which was filled with pus. Above and below the diseased part the bone is condensed. L ^ 229. A Tibia exhibiting Necrosis of a portion of its anterior wall. The dead bone, distinguished by its colour, is in process of separation from the living bone, a deep groove being formed between them. Its surface was m part removed by ulceration previous to its death. The walls of the bone, around the exfoliating portion, are thickened and of a porous texture. The necrosis was probably due to an ulcer of the integuments. L 64 NECROSIS OF THE LOWER JAW FROM EXPOSURE TO THE FUMES OF PHOSPHORUS. 230. Superior Maxilke and adjacent bones of the same patient from whom Specimen No. 232 was taken after death, which occurred six months subse- quently to the removal of the lower jaw. The f olio win o- bones were denuded, of periosteum, and dead : — On the ria'ht'side -. — The whole of the upper maxilla, the malar, external and internal angular processes of the frontal, and that part of it in contact with the lachrymal and nasal bones, except at the base. All the internal pterygoid plate, and the front part of the external pterygoid plate of the sphenoid, also a narrow strip of the orbital plate of the greater wing adjacent to the malar ; all the palate bone; the inferior spongy bone, and the back part of the middle one ; the os planum of the ethmoid, which, however, was whiter than the other loOTlGS. On the left side:—The whole of the upper maxilla with all the teeth, the orbital surface, the back part, however, being less stained; that part of the malar bone adjacent to the upper maxilla; all the palate bone, except the orbital pro- cess • the inferior spongy bone : the lachrymal, which was less stained above than below ; the nasal bone, except at the base; the os planum of the ethmoid, which was whiter than the other bone ; the vomer, except a strhp in the middle third of the rio-ht side, which was still covered ; below it was quite separated from the crest of the maxilla and the palate bones, and from the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid behind. In some parts, the surface of the bones has a worm-eaten appearance, and in others is coated with a rough deposit of new bone. 231. The o-reater portion of the two superior Maxillary Bones in a state of Necrosis, removed from a man aged 34. I. 322