68 DISEASES OF BONES. sarcoma), which has formed around it. The tumour consists almost entirely of a solid, uniform, and very dense osseous substance. The medulla cavity ot nearly all that part of the hone which is surrounded by the tumour is failed by a similar substance, and about the condyles, the walls of the femur being absorbed, the morbid growths within and without form one mass. A part ot the exterior of the tumour is composed of a soft, fatty-looking substance. ^ Microscopic Examination.—The tumour consists of a reticulum of homogeneous inter- cellular substance, enclosing small round cells. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 36 ; and drawing, A. 14. 475 The other Section of the Femur and Osteoid Tumour last described By maceration, the soft matter of the tumour has been removed, leaving only the hard, dense, and white osseous substance around and witmn the bone, ine outer surface of this portion of the tumour is nodulated, and portions ot it have a fibrous texture like that of pumice-stone. In the lower part of the bottle are several of the inguinal and lumbar lymphatic glands from the same side ot the body as the tumour. They are converted into an osseous substance similar to that of which the tumour is composed. L 476 The Femoral Artery, together with several Bony Tumours which occupied the situation of the lymphatic glands in the popliteal space and groin of the patient from whom the two preceding specimens were taken. The tumours consist of a hard osseous substance, which is displayed by a section of one ot them, llie femoral artery is sound, but its popliteal portion is compressed and altered m its course by its connection with the diseased glands. The ligature upon the artery about three inches below the origin of the profunda, was placed around it in consequence of the tumour in the ham having a pulsation and other characters like those of an aneurism. L The minute structure of the growth in the lymphatic glands resembles exactly that of the primary tumour. . See microscopic sections, No. 37 ; and a drawing, A. 15. . . .. . rtTi The patient was a man 30 years old. The swelling seemed to have its origin m a fall o the right knee , it, began at the front, and gradually extended round the lower part of the thigh It pulsated like an aneurism, and when a part of it was punctured arterial blood flowed. The femoral artery being tied, the pulsation ceased and the tumour for a time diminished; but it aftemai-Ss Lain enlarged, and the patient died exhausted. The femoral ar ery was compressed andXplacefby the diseased glands. The case is recorded by Mr. Stanley, m the MecUco- Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxvm, p. 305, 1845. 477 Section of a Femur, of which the lower half is surrounded by an Osteoid Tumour (osteo-sarcoma). The tumour extended around the whole circum- ference of the femur. It has an elongated oval form, is thin where it abuts on the articular margin of the bone, but, in the rest of its extent, rises to between two and three inches from the surface of the shaft. The periosteum appears to be involved in the tumour, and the popliteal artery and vein run through it near its surface. The walls of the femur appear thickened and hardened, and We portions of morbid substance, like that which forms the external por- tions of the tumour, exist in the cancellous tissue and medullary canal, l ie greater part of the substance of the growth, both without and within the walls of the bone, consists of a very firm, dense, and compact tissue, pale yellowish, and obscurely fibrous ; that part which is attached to the femur is chiefly osseous, its tissue having peculiarities which are better shown in the following speci- men The outer surface of the tumour is unequal and knobbed, and a few portions of similar substance lie adjacent to, but distinct from, the chief mas* Microscopic Examination.-The tumour consists of small round cells and homogeneous or indistinctly fibrillated intercellular substance having a reticular arrangement. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 38; and a drawing, A. 12.