59 DISEASES OF BONES. The paticnl was a man 28 years old. The growth had besD observed moMaong for two years before its removal, [t was painless and did not affect the general health. It projected at the cheek, and into the orbit, nostril and month, and displaced all the molar teeth on its own side. He recovered from the operation and was well three years after it. Presented by Mr. White. 435. Sections of the left half of a Lower Jaw Bone, the walls of which are dis- parted and extended around a large oval tumour growing within them. The tumour extends from the right side of the symphysis, along the entire length of the left horizontal portion of the jaw, and about one-third of its ascending portion. It is uniformly of a very firm, dense substance, greyish-white, inter- sected by short shining bundles of white fibres. The investment of bone, formed for it by the extended walls of the jaw within which it grew, is com- plete, and might be separated from it. An appearance of softening in its centre is due to its having been perforated before removal. I. 280 The patient was a healthy-looking woman, 32 years old. The tumour ascribed to a blow, had been observed between seven and eight years, and had gradually increased without pain. Recovery followed the operation. 436. Part of the body of a Lower Jaw, and of a Tumour which extended from its angle to the place of the canine tooth, on the left side. The tumour appears to spring from both surfaces, as well as from the alveolar border of the jaw; it is intimately connected with them, and their periosteum is involved in it. It rises, with a nearly smooth oval surface, to a height of almost an inch from the jaw. Its texture is dense, tough, elastic, white, with glistening bands, like a section of fibrous cartilage. Its posterior and lower surface is covered with a thin plate of bone, which appears to have grown over it from the lower border of the jaw. 35. 92 The patient was a woman 28 years old. The tumour had been two years in progress and had seemed to spring from the socket of a tooth which was extracted on account of caries. For the first eighteen months it was painfid ; in its later progress much less so. The patient remained well for at least a year after the operation. Under the microscope the tumour was found to be composed of well-formed fibrous tissue. SARCOMATA. ROUND-CELL SARCOMATA. 437. Portion of the upper part of a Skull, with several large lens-shaped Tumours developed between the pericranium and dura mater, and partially involving the intermediate substance of the bone. The tumours are composed of a soft, but close-textured, smooth, medullary substance, which, on its cut surface, is ob- scurely fibrous, as if in each tumour there were fibres set vertically upon the surface of the bone to which it is attached. 35. 1 Microscopic examination showed the tumour to be a small round-cell sarcoma. See microscopic specimen, No. 11. 438. Section of a Clavicle, in the interior of which a firm medullary substance has been deposited in large quantity. The posterior wall is but little changed ; but the greater part of the anterior wall is lost in the interior of the tumour which grew to a great extent forwards. The shaft was fractured (with only a slight force), and its portions are widely displaced without any attempt at union. z 223 Microscopic examination showed the tuniour to be a small round-cell sarcoma. See microscopic specimen, No. 12. 439. The other Section of the same Clavicle after maceration. It shows more distinctly the characters of the osseous structure into which the anterior wall of the bone, which was chiefly involved in the growth, was changed. i 224