DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE URETHRA AND PENIS. 435 which has sloughed, the canal of the urethra is lost in a large irregular cavity, like that of an abscess. A large pouch, formed by the protrusion of the mucous membrane between the muscular fibres, is connected with the front of the bladder. xxx. 17 HYPERTROPHY OF THE BLADDER. Vide Nos. 2368, 2402, 2859, 2863, 2867 to 2869, 2871, 2875 to 2879. DILATATION OF THE URETERS AND PELVIS OF THE KIDNEY. Vide Nos. 2368, 2863. ACCIDENTAL COMPLICATIONS OF STRICTURE. CALCULI IMPACTED IN THE URETHRA. 2879. Section of a Bladder and Urethra. A disk-shaped calculus, seven-tenths of an inch in diameter, is fixed in the bulbous portion of the urethra. There is a slight stricture of the urethra immediately in front of the calculus ; and around and behind it the canal is dilated and superficially ulcerated. The coats of the bladder are greatly thickened. One of the lateral lobes of the prostate gland is enlarged. xxx. 11 The preparation is engraved in Dr. Marcet's "Essay on Calculous Disorders," PI. V. London, 8vo., 1817. 2880. Part of a Penis and Prostate Gland, with the Urethra laid open. An inch in front of the membranous part of the urethra a stricture exists, through which the continuity of the canal cannot now be traced, but which appears to have been extremely narrow. The urethra posterior to the stricture is dilated, and, immediately behind the contraction, a calculus, half an inch in diameter, is lodged in the most dilated part, projecting towards the perineum. The obstruction caused by the calculus, added to that of the stricture, appears to have completely closed the urethra. By the side of the stricture is a large cavity that was filled with foetid pus, and extends into the perineum, where it is laid open by a long incision. xxx. 39 The patient was about 45 years old, and had had stricture many years. Sudden retention of urine occurred, followed by rapid swelling and suppuration in the perineum. An incision was made into the perineum, and foetid pus was let out, but the calculus was not felt, and the retention was only partially relieved. EFFECTS OF THE TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. FALSE PASSAGES. 2881. A Penis, with a portion of the Bladder. The mucous membrane of the whole of the urethra is thickened. About two inches from its external orifice, the canal is contracted, forming a close annular stricture, behind which it is dilated in its whole length. From the stricture, a false passage, formed by catheters, is continued along the side of the urethra, in the corpus spongiosum, and through the prostate gland into the bladder. xxx. 18 2882. A Penis, exhibiting a stricture of the urethra about an inch anterior to the bulb. The mucous membrane is thickened and indurated in the situation of the stricture, and the canal behind it is much dilated. A bristle is intro- duced into the stricture, and another into a false passage formed by a catheter which extends from the front of the stricture for a short distance alone the outer side of the urethra. xx^ 20 2883. Part of a Penis, exhibiting a stricture in the urethra, about an inch anterior to the bulb. A false passage has been made by a catheter through 2 f 2