193 PERICARDIUM AND OF THE HEART. tln'ee inches in diameter, a portion of which is turned downwards. The cyst projects into the lower part of the right ventricle, and gives a rounded form to the apex of the heart. XII. 40 The patient was a woman 40 years old. Her health had appeared declining for some years ; and about eighteen months before her death she began to have dyspnoea on exertion and occa- sional pain at the heart. Six weeks before death more severe signs of disease of the heart were brought on by an unusual exertion, and these continued and were aggravated till she died. The case is related by Mr. Evans, and the preparation is engraved, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xvii, p. 507. London, 1832. Presented by Herbert Evans, Esq. ******** EFFECTS OF ASPHYXIA. 1296. The Heart of a child, aged 3 weeks, who died of asphyxia. The right cavities were found greatly distended with dark fluid blood, and on their sur- faces, which are generally congested, are numerous ecchymoses. The superficial vessels of the right side engorged with blood contrasted with those on the left side. The left cavities were much contracted. DISEASES OF THE VALVES AND ENDOCARDIUM. ENDO-CAFJDITIS. 1297. Part of a Boy's Heart, in which there are numerous fibrinous veo-etations attached to the lining membrane of the left auricle. Many of them are half an inch m length, lobed and pendulous, and attached by narrow bases. The lining membrane of the auricle appears slightly thickened. xn 73 The patient was 15 years old, and had been considered as suffering with some organic disease ot the heart for 13 years. Pour months before his death he had an attack of hemiplegia which was followed by persistent contraction of the left arm and lee. Pive davs before de-Trh' after a sudden seizure like apoplexy, he became completely unconscious, and so died After death, upwards of six ounces of serum were found in the cerebral ventricles and the af^Zl^e^PtlC thakmUS ^ the partS aW ifc were 80fte-d **. no Presented by Mr. Sankey. 1298. A Heart suspended so as to expose to view the left auricle and ventricle A patch of papillomatous vegetations extends over a considerable portion of the surface of the left auricle, and also over the auricular surface of the adiacent cusp of the mitral valve. Both cusps of the mitral valve are thickened and contracted. A pendulous vegetation is attached to the aortic cusp. From a woman, aged 27 years. She had an attack of acute rheumatism when 16 vears of SlTLSf "mlSr1? kter" A l0Ud Tt0Uc mUrmur was beai'd at the apex, a^nd very l?,nZ She SUfffCd n° from her heart affection, but died of urasnSf supervening from an acute exacerbation of chronic nephritis uramna, ra^S^iSf1 JSfSS.*- kidnej> and more reccnfc infaret8 in fche 1™TIONS AND DEPOSITS OF FIBRIN ON THE VALVES. 1299. Mitral and Aortic Valves, with a middle cerebral artery, and its chief branches^ The free border of the mitral valve is thickly studded wi& a ridLe of rough cauliflower-like masses of firm white fibrin, forming waitv of crescences of various sizes and shapes. The aortic valves are SJZli similar collection of smaller warty vegetations. Tim teX~f th scarcely changed Impacted within the right middle cerebral artery ils at i origin, is a firm plug of pale, fibrinous substance, about the size oa hemp seed