DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE GALL-BLADDER AND BILIARY DUCTS. 341 glands. The duct is compressed and partly obliterated by a large cyst which contained hydatids. The lymphatic glands in the gastro-hepatic omentum are enlarged and hard. X1X- ^ GALL-BLADDERS CONTAINING CALCULI. 2257. Part of a Liver with its Gall-Bladder. The coats of the latter are much thickened, and its interior is occupied by many polygonal calculi, consisting chiefly of cholesterine. xix. 15 2258. A Gall-Bladder contracted around two Gall-Stones. The cystic duct is patent, but there was no fluid bile in the bladder. xix. 16 For the history of the case see St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xv, p. 80. 2259. A Gall-Bladder completely filled by a Calculus, which is firmly adherent to its internal surface. The cystic duct is pervious, and appears healthy. xix. 9 2260. A Gall-Bladder with adjacent portion of the Liver. The former is greatly distended and filled with gall-stones, which are exposed to view by apertures cut in the gall-bladder. 171 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. Vide No. 2264. ULCERATION OF THE GALL-BLADDER WITH PERFORATION INTO THE INTESTINE OR PERITONEUM, FROM THE PRESENCE OF CALCULI. 2261. Portion of a Liver, with the Gail-Bladder, Biliary Ducts, and part of the Duodenum. The gall-bladder is thickened and contracted. A passage is formed by ulceration from the gall-bladder into the duodenum, through which passage a large calculus passed into the intestine. All the biliary ducts are much dilated. A rod of glass is passed from the common duct into the dtiodenum; but the communication of the cystic duct with the gall-bladder is obliterated. xix. 11 2262. Portion of a Liver with the Gall-Bladder, which is adherent by dense con- nective tissue to the liver, pylorus, and first part of the duodenum. The gall- bladder, whicb contains numerous faceted gall-stones, communicates with the duodenum just beyond the pylorus by two openings, whicb were occupied by gall-stones; one opening as large as a three-penny piece has been cut across, in the other a piece of glass is placed. The wall of the gall-bladder is much thickened and indurated. The cystic duct was obliterated : but bile flowed from the common duct, when it was cut across. The structure of the liver is normal. XIX- 21 From a woman, aged 28, who performed her duties as a nurse in the Hospital until a week before her death, when she complained of pain in the region of the stomach. Constant and uncontrollable vomiting came on and she died collapsed.—See Mary Ward Booh, April, 1879 • and Post Mortem Book, vol. vii, p. 160. ' ' ' 2263. A Gall-Bladder, in the wall of which is a circular ulcerated opening formed over a gall-stone which was lodged within its sac. 175 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. MORBID GROWTHS. CANCER. 2264. A portion of the pyloric orifice of the Stomach with the commencement of the Duodenum, and adherent to them the Gall-Bladder. The wall of the gall-bladder is converted into a mass of medullary cancer: it contains four faceted gall-stones and several small stones lie in the bottom of the bottle. The growth around the gall-bladder was continuous with a mass of