224 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. a clot. A piece of glass rod is placed in an apertnre of communication between the aneurism and the right auricle at the root of the superior vena cava. From a man aged 44 years.—See Post Mortem Boole, vol. viii, p. 52. 1473. The commencement of an Aorta, with part of the pulmonary artery and of the right and left ventricles of the heart. The aorta is the seat of exten- sive atheromatous deposits, and its inner surface is thus rendered rough and uneven. Its canal is irregularly dilated by numerous pouches of varying size. One of these projects into the right ventricle, below the attachment of the pulmonary valves; its position is indicated by the bristle. Opposite this pouch, just above one of the aortic cusps, there is a fissure with uneven flocculent edges, its base formed by the middle coat of the aorta, covered with soft, atheromatous deposits. In the recent state this fissure was filled by a softer, almost pus-like material, which contained a large quantity of free oil. To the right of this fissure is a long crack, extending downwards to the base of the valve; on either side of it the wall of the aorta is thickened and puckered. Above, its edges are undermined ; but here, as elsewhere, its surface is covered by a transparent membrane having an imperfectly filamentous struc- ture. xm- 132 1474. Portion of a Heart and an Aorta. The aorta is generally dilated, and there are two circumscribed dilatations immediately above the valves. The larger, to the right of the specimen, projects into the commencement of the pulmonary artery, one of the valves of which is adherent to the projecting surface. 1475. The Arch of an Aorta, with a broad flat aneurism, which, arising from its antei'ior wall just above the valves, has compressed, and burst into the pul- monary artery. The internal coat of the aorta is irregularly thickened: the mouth of the sac is round and very wide. xin. 14 1476. The Arch of an Aorta, with its great branches and the Pulmonary Artery. The whole of the arch is somewhat dilated, and soft matter is deposited in its coats. A small hemispherical aneurismal pouch extends from the aorta just above the rio-ht semilunar valve, compresses the pulmonary artery, and communicates with it by an opening, through which a portion of glass is passed. Imme- diate! v around this opening the coats of the pulmonary artery are thickened. xm. 102 1477. The Arch of an Aorta, with the Pulmonary Artery. The aorta is con- siderably and uniformly dilated in the whole extent of the arch. Its coats are thickened and tuberculated; and, just above one of the semilunar valves there is a small opening which extends through the coats of the aorta into the con- tiguous portion of the pulmonary artery. There is no greater dilatation of the aorta in the situation of this opening than in any other part. xm. 87 1478. An Aorta, with an aneurism of the first portion of its arch, which has burst into the poricardium. The sac, which is of an oval form, has extended across the front of the aorta between it and the pulmonary artery, and has compressed the latter. The mouth of the sac is round, and is situated in the front wall of the aorta, just above the aortic valves. A quill is introduced from the sac through the ruptured aperture, above which a portion of the pericardium is reflected from the sac. The internal coat of the aorta is thick- ened and tuberculated, especially near the margin of the mouth of the aneurismal sac. Fibrin is deposited on the inner surface of the pulmonary artery, where it is pressed upon by the sac. Xin, 2 From a patient 40 years old, who, while apparently in good health, died suddenly after a full meal. The pericardium was distended with coagulated blood.