SERIES XXVIII. The patient was a woman, 30 years old. She appeared healthy till six weeks before her death, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE KIDNEYS, THEIR PELVES, AND THE UEETEES. HYPERTROPHY. 2331. A Kidney, illustrating compensative hypertrophy such as takes place when the opposite organ has been destroyed, as in this instance it was by suppuration. AMYLOID DEGENERATION. 2331a. A Kidney affected with Amyloid Degeneration. It is somewhat enlarged, especially the cortical portion. Its surface is smooth, and the section has a translucent, homogeneous, and wax-like appearance. INFLAMMATION AND ITS RESULTS. ACUTE PARENCHYMATOUS NEPHRITIS. 2332. Section of a Kidney, enlarged and appearing very pale and soft in every part, except those in which there are large blotches of effused blood, lhe principal branches of the renal vein are filled by firm dry coagula. xxvi. 25 The patient, a lad, about 19 years old, died with acute dropsy and albuminous urine, which supervened on intemperance and exposure to cold a few weeks before his death. CHRONIC PARENCHYMATOUS NEPHRITIS (LARGE WHITE KIDNEY). 2333 Section of a Kidney, enlarged, and the cortical substance of which is pale A fine injection of size and vermilion through the renal artery shows that the whole organ, and especially the altered cortical substance, possesses less vascularity than is natural. The capsule of the kidney was stripped off more readily than usual, and the whole organ is large and soft. The other kidney was similarly altered. XXVI- 22 From a young woman who died with acute general dropsy, and whose urine was albuminous. Contracting Stage of Chronic Parenchymatous Nephritis. 2334. Section of a Kidney, which is rather smaller than is natural and granulated on its surface. The section of the organ is mottled with yellowish-white firm patches, which the injection has not penetrated. The surface is finely granu- lated. ' XXVI- 23 The kidney probably represents the contracting stage of chronic parenchymatous nephritis. The other kidney was similarly altered. The urine was albuminous. GRANULAR CONTRACTED KIDNEY. 2335. Section of a Kidney contracted to half its natural size, and fissured and granular on its surface. Its whole substance appears pale and tough, and its cortical portion is reduced to a layer less than a line in thickness. xxvi. 30