DISEASES OF BONES. 37 neither of them is advanced before the other; and, except that the articular surface of the right is more oblique than that of the left, they are symmetrical. The tibiae and fibulae are strongly but similarly curved forwards and inwards, so fehafc the shafts of the tibia' nearly touch. The lateral axes of the ankle-joints are directed from without inwards, and I'rum above downwards; and the internal malleoli are far within the tarsi and on a level with the lower margins of the astragali. The feet are in a corresponding degree splayed out, and their soles are nearly flat. A. 148 (In Case B.) 273. The Spine, Pelvis, and Lower Limbs of a woman, aged about 30, deformed by Rickets. The spine exhibits three lateral curvatures. The lumbar vertebras, inclining strongly to the left, are also twisted on their vertical axis so that the left transverse processes project forwards. The lower dorsal vertebras, inclining to the right, compensate for the preceding changes by having their right transverse processes directed forwards. The upper dorsal and the cervical vertebras tend to the right, and their transverse processes incline to the same directions as those of the lumbar, viz., the left forwards and the right backwards. From the manner in which the weight of the trunk has been transmitted to the pelvis, the sacrum has become nearly horizontal. The cavity of the pelvis is capacious; the ilia are everted; and the angle of the symphysis pubis is rather more acute than is natural. The femora are short and strongly curved, with their con- vexities directed forwards ; and their lower articular ends appear very broad and flat. The tibiae and fibulas are also curved with their convexities directed forwards and inwards. A 14 (In Case B.) 274. The Pelvis and Lower Extremities of a middle-aged woman who had suffered h orn Rickets. The bones are all strong, thick, and heavy, and not much curved. 1 Iiey are all short, and the shaft of the left femur is two inches and a half shorter than that of the right. The necks of the femora are horizontal, and their lower articular surfaces, especially that of the left femur, appear, as they do also m many preceding specimens, broad and flat. A 149 (In Case B.) 275^Tllf/elv1;S.;1nd Lower Extremities of a middle-aged woman who had suffered from Rickets. The cavity of the pelvis is contracted, especially on the left side, by the pressmg-in of the acetabulum: but the lower aperture of the pelvis is wide the rami of the ischia being bent outwards and their tuberosities divergent The necks of the femora are less oblique than usual; their shafts, as wel as those of the tibias and fibulas, are considerably curved forwards and inwards, ihe shafts of the tibias and fibulas are broad and flat. The feet are so much turned inwards that the great toes are in contact. a 150 (In Case B.) 276 A Pelvis, showing Rickety Deformity. The cavity of the brim is flattened antero-posteriorly by the projection forwards of the sacrum. The anteroposterior fcZetr £ ** ^ &t thc °»tlet the anteroposterior diameter is 6% inches, the mter-spmous 4 inches. From a woman on whom Caesarian section was performed (In Case E.) 277. An ill-developed contracted Pelvis, showing Rickety Deformity. The con traction ,s chiefly m the anteroposterior diameter of the brim, winch measures only li inches. The sacrum is narrow and straight. measures Be?%ZT£™B^%0V:Zm Wh°diCd afPerf°rmauceof C™ -tion- (In Case E.) ' **