530 URINARY CALCULI. The calculus was taken after death from the bladder of a man 21 years old He died with inflammation of the bladder, ureters, and kidneys. The other half of the calculus is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, D. 1. 169. Section of a Cystic Oxide Calculus coated, in parts, by the mixed Phos- phates. Weight, 155 grains. Vide No. 213. CALCULI CONSISTING OF PHOSPHATE OF LIME. 170. Thirty-one faceted Calculi, composed of Phosphate of Lime: they were removed from the bladder of a Hindoo peasant by lateral lithotomy, performed by Dr. J. Wise, of Dacca, Bengal. The patient recovered. See an account of the case by Mr. T. Smith, in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, 1870. 171. Calculus composed of Phosphate of Lime, which was removed from the patient to whom No. 2 belonged, at a subsequent operation. 172. Two Phosphatic Calculi, one cubical the other triangular. One facet on each calculus is smooth and polished by attrition against the other, to which the peculiar shape of the calculi is due. The other facets are covered by granular phosphates. The calculi consisted for the most part of phosphate of calcium, with a small proportion of triple phosphate ; they were not fusible. They were taken after death from a man, aged 66 years, who had suffered from symptoms of stone for nine years. He died from pyo-nephritis. Vide Nos. 214, 215, 218, 219. Presented by Mark H. H. Vernon, Esq.. CALCULI COMPOSED OF PHOSPHATE OF MAGNESIA AND AMMONIA. 173. A large Calculus, composed entirely of Ammonio-Magnesium Phosphate. From a Hindoo. 173a. Section of a Calculus having the appearance of mortar, composed of Phos- phate of Magnesia and Ammonia. 174. Calculus, composed of regularly crystallised Triple Phosphate, upon, pro- bably, a nucleus of Uric Acid. Analysis by Dr. Hue. Vide Nos. 212, 227. CALCULI COMPOSED OF PHOSPHATE OF LIME AND PHOSPHATE CALCULI ^£BgIA AND AMM0NIA (FUSIBLE CALCULUS). 175 Sections of a Calculus, composed of mixed Phosphates; the dark veins in Vnrobably Urate of Ammonia. The form of the Calculus and the arrange- ment of its veins appear to indicate that it is composed of two Calculi united at their borders. From the bladder of a man 54 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Vincent. 176 A section of a Calculus, composed of Calcium Phosphate and Ammonio- Magnesium Phosphate, the former being in a larger proportion; it contains no Uric Acid. From a Hindoo.