INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 143 Lower Extremities of Tibia and Fibula. 998. The lower end of a right Tibia and Fibula, showing a united fracture. The line of fracture is indicated by a roughening of the surface of the tibia and a projection on its inner side just above the internal malleolus : it passes obliquely from the outer side downwards and inwards to the projection just above the internal malleolus. The fracture extends into the joint, separating the articular surface into three nearly equal segments : pieces of glass have been inserted into the libro-cartilage, which unites the fractured articular cartilage. The lower end of the tibia is displaced forward and outward. In order to accommodate the altered shape of the articular surface to the head of the astragalus, a buttress of fibro-cartilage, which is undergoing ossification, has been formed on the anterior margin of the articulation : through this a section has been made to show the healthy cartilage beneath. The fracture of the fibula passes through the bone obliquely, about five inches above the external malleolus: the lower end of the bone is slightly displaced outwards. From a man, aged 42, who fell from a height of about forty feet on to his foot and back. On his admission to the Hospital, a fracture of the tibia and fibula about two inches above the ankle, was diagnosed. In seven weeks the fracture was firmly united. A year later he cut his throat and died in the Hospital, when the specimen was obtained.—See Colston Ward Book, vol. v, p. 213. 999. A partially united "Pott's" Fracture. A fracture extends through the base of the internal malleolus, and there is also an oblique fracture through the fibula two inches above the malleolus. The displacement of the fractured bones is slight. 1000. A united " Pott's " Fracture, at the right Ankle-Joint. There is an oblique fracture of the fibula about an inch and a half above the external malleolus, and the lower end of the bone is driven upwards and outwards. The astra- galus is displaced backwards and outwards, and half of its upper articular surface has passed from under the malleolar arch. There is a buttress of bone posteriorly between the tibia and fibula ; and also a mass of callus between the astragalus and internal malleolus, which was probably thrown out around a piece of bone torn from the internal malleolus. The patient died of dysentery nearly four months after the occurrence of the fracture ; during the whole of that period she had been confined to bed. G-reat difficulty was experienced in keeping the parts in position.—Lawrence Ward, Book, vol. vi, p. 17. 1001. Section through the lower extremities of a Tibia and Fibula. A fracture, firmly united by ossifying fibrous tissue, passes obliquely downwards and in- wards through the lower extremity of the fibula. The external malleolus is displaced outwards about half an inch, and also slightly upwards : a portion of the tibia, separated with the external malleolus, lies between the two bones. The internal malleolus has been broken off and rests on the inner part of the articular surface of the tibia. The foot was displaced outwards, and had carried the fragments of bone with it. From a man, aged 65 years, who died three months after having fractured his leg, by slipping in the street. An ulcer which formed on the heel necessitated the frequent changing of the splints. ° 1002. The lower extremities of the Tibia and Fibula with the Foot of an elderly woman, exhibiting the effects of an injury which occurred several years before death. The foot is displaced outwards, so that only the inner half of the articular surface of the astragalus is in apposition with the tibia. There has been a comminuted fracture, extending in various directions through the lower end of the fibula and the adjacent margin of the tibia. The separated portions of bone have been completely re-united. c iqj (In Case H.)