NOSE, MOUTH, TONGUE, PALATE, AND FAUCES. 271 some parts intersected by layers of a softer, probably fibrous, tissue. A portion of its external surface, projecting below the left nostril, has sloughed. xxxv. 47 1774. The other half of the Tumour last described. This portion extends into the cavity of the left orbit, and has elongated and compressed the left optic nerve, pushing it to the outer wall of the orbit. The tumour presents the same partially ossified cartilaginous structure as the preceding. xxxv. 48 The Tumour was of very slow growth. See Mr. Stanley's Treatise on Diseases of the Bones, pi. xvii, fig. 3. RHINO-PLASTIC OPERATIONS. 1775. The Face of a man, on which a new nose was formed three months before death, from a portion of the integuments of the forehead. xxm. 26 Some years before the operation the patient had cut his nose off, in a fit of insanity. He died with fever, shortly after the union of the transplanted part was completed. Presented by F. C. Skey, Esq. DISEASES OF THE LIPS AND CHEEK. LABIAL GLANDULAR TUMOUR. 1776. Section of a Tumour removed from an Upper Lip. A portion of the mucous membrane of the lip is closely connected with a part of its surface. The tumour was of spheroidal shape, nearly an inch in diameter, imbedded in the whole thickness of the lip. It is lobed, firm, and elastic, closely connected, but not confused, with the adjacent tissues. Its cut surface is creamy-white and greyish, with ruddy spots. xxxv. 87 The patient was a healthy-looting, middle-aged man. The tumour had been growing for twelve years, and was inconvenient only from its bulk. Its microscopic structures were those of a conglomerate secreting gland, with tubes lined and partly filled with nucleated cells, wanting only the system of branching ducts. The case is described, and parts of the microscopic structures are represented, in Sir J. Paget's Lectures on Tumours, p. 262, pi. 36. EPITHELIOMA. 1777. An Epithelioma of the Upper Lip. xxxv. 22 Kemoved from a man, aged 60 years. 1778. Section of a mass of Epithelial Cancer imbedded in the right cheek. It occupies the whole thickness of the cheek, upraising equally the skin and the mucous membrane, and just projecting through them both at small ulcerated apertures. It appears as a circumscribed infiltration of the tissues, of irregular rounded shape, about two inches in diameter. Its section appears opaque-white, with some marks of blood-stains ; its substance is firm and close- textured, but friable, not creamy. xxxv. 96 The patient was 37 years old. A year before the removal of this disease, a portion of his lower lip, with an epithelial cancer which bad been four years in progress, was excised. Within three months of this second operation, the disease reappeared beneath the scar, and rapidly increased. It was removed, together with a large portion of the lower jaw to which the can- cerous substance adhered. The wound did not completely heal; but the cancer which again appeared in it made comparatively slow, though extensive progress. Death occurred nearly three years after the first operation. The lip on which the first operation was performed remained healthy to the last. There is a drawing of the specimen No. 578. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE TONGUE. HYPERTROPHY. 1779. A horizontal section of a portion of a Hypertrophied Tongue, removed