DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE URINARY BLADDER. 3G8 retention, for two years. In the last attack of retention the prostate gland, as shown in this specimen, was pierced; but the withdrawal of the urine did not reduce a swelling, felt above the pubes, and which was produced by the bladder pressed forward by the cyst full of the morbid growth. It is uncertain whether this cyst is formed by dilatation of the ureter, or by mucous membrane protruded from the bladder between its muscidar fibres; the latter supposition is more probable. 2424. A Bladder, half the cavity of which is filled by a broken-down, soft, and flocculent mass of soft cancer. The rest of its internal surface is superficially ulcerated. xxvn. 7 2425. The Bladder of a middle-aged woman, the mucous membrane of which is extensively destroyed by ulceration, probably cancerous. xxvn. 26 Presented by Henry Bateman, Esq. 2426. The Bladder of a man, aged 45, who for two or three years before his death had suffered from hematuria and other symptoms of a foreign body m the bladder. The bladder is laid open by a vertical incision through its front wall. It is much thickened and indurated; and, springing from the region of the neck, and so extending as to involve the orifices of the ureters and urethra, is a large lobulated cancerous tumour, which occupies a considerable portion of the cavity. The lower surface is ulcerated. xxvn. 45 2427. The Bladder of a man, aged 59, in the lower portion of the anterior wall of which is a considerable growth of cancer. Portions of the disease project into the adjacent parts of the cavity. The prostatic portion of the urethra is distorted. xxvn. 44 2428. The Bladder of a woman, with its cavity nearly filled by a large tumour, which apparently originated within the coats of its posterior part. Portions of glass are passed into the ureters, which open on the front surface of the tumour. The tumour is pale, soft, spongy, and of medullary character. xxvn. 27 2429. A Bladder, affected with medullary cancer. Two large masses of disease are to be seen, which affect the muscular as well as the mucous coats of the bladder, whilst the lesser raised patches are limited to the mucous membrane, and even to its more superficial layers. Around the opening of the right ureter is a mass of cancer infiltrating the muscular coat. From a man, aged 57 years, who had had symptoms of the disease for about six months before death.—See Pitcaim Ward Book, vol. ii, p. 101. 2430. A Bladder, with firm, round tumours between the mucous and muscular coats of its fundus. One tumour projects into the cavity of the bladder; two others project upon its outer surface, and are covered by peritoneum and the muscular fibres of the bladder. xxvn. 4 CALCULI AND OTHER FOREIGN BODIES IN THE BLADDER, AND THEIR EFFECTS. 2431. A Bladder, with the Ureters and Kidneys. The coats of the bladder are thickened, contracted, indurated, and superficially ulcerated, and its cavity contains a calculus. The ureters, and the pelves and inf undibula of the kidneys are widely dilated. xxvn. 9 2432. A Bladder, exhibiting hypertrophy of its muscular coat, with enlargement of the prostate gland, and three large calculi nearly filling the lower half of its cavity and resting on the enlarged prostate. The ureters open in the narrow interspaces between the calculi. xxvn. 22 Presented by J. H. Spry, Esq. 2433. A Bladder, contracted, indurated, and thickened, with ulceration extending through the middle of its posterior wall and forming a passage from its cavity