DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE STOMACH. 207 INJURIES OF, AND OPERATIONS UPON THE STOMACH. RUPTURE. 1938. Portions of the Stomach and (Esophagus of a middle-aged man, who, it w as supposed, had attempted to poison himself with laudanum. There is an extensive laceration through all the coats of the stomach, a little beyond the entrance of the oesophagus, and other smaller lacerations are visible in the adjacent parts of the mucous and peritoneal coats. A large quantity of blood is eft'used from the lacerations into the surrounding tissues of the stomach. xv. 18 These lacerations were the effects of over-distension, the stomach-pump having been too freely used for the removal of the poison. 1939. Portion of a Stomach and Duodenum. There is an irregular aperture more than an inch in width, extending through all the coats of the stomach near the pylorus. In several other parts the peritoneal coat is irregularly torn. xv. 22 These injuries were produced by the crushing of the abdomen, the stomach at the time being full of food. EFFECTS OF POISONS. Mineral Acids. 1940. The Stomach of a person who died in consequence of having taken sulphuric acid. ^ The deep red colour, mottled with black, and extending throughout the interior of the stomach, is occasioned by blood effused from the eroded vessels and acted on by the acid. The greater part of the mucous membrane is destroyed, and the surface exposed is rough and shaggy. In the oesophagus and near the pyloric end of the stomach, portions of the mucous membrane remain, and are red, thick, and corrugated. XY< 9 The duodenum of the same patient is in the next Series, No. 2042. 1941. A Stomach from a young woman, exhibiting the effects of sulphuric acid. There is an aperture with ragged edges, about half an inch in diameter, in the middle of the great arch of the stomach. The mucous membrane around the aperture is thickened, black, and charred by the acid. The stomach is closely contracted. xy j*g 1942. The Stomach of a young woman who died thirty hours after taking nearly an ounce of sulphuric acid. It is contracted, and, in its interior, deeply corru- gated. The mucous membrane is thickened and indurated, and of a deep black and crimson colour from congestion and extravasation of blood. These effects of the acid are most distinct on the summits of the ridges formed by the corrugated mucous membrane. £^ 23 1Q43. The Stomach of a woman who died ten days after taking sulphuric acid Fart ot its mucous membrane is soft and of a dirty ash-brown colour, and near its pyloric end a portion between three and four inches in diameter has slouched and, except at one margin, has been completely separated. The slough hano-s loosely; it is very soft and flocculent at its edges, and of brown and yellow colour. About the cardiac orifice of the stomach (which is shown at the back of the preparation) there is a rough and somewhat granulated surface, from which a layer ot mucous membrane, after sloughing, completely separated. xv. 27 A drawing is preserved, No. 215. 1944. Part of the (Esophagus of the same patient, exhibiting an extensively and