DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 375 2478. Portion of Cerebrum, in the substance of which there is ^ *f *^ clot, from which the red colour has almost entirely disappeared. The vuttM of the clot is closely united to the substance of the brain which atao appe^j more smooth than that immediately surrounding the clots in the pieceamg specimens. 2479. Portions of Cerebrum, in the substance of which are the two parts of a cavity which contained a serous fluid, and which was, probably, formed by tnc complete removal of an apoplectic effusion, such as is shown m earlier stages in the preceding specimens. The form of the cavity is irregular, but its interior is smooth, and the adjacent substance of the brain appears healthy. ^ The patient was 40 years old, and had an apoplectic attack about four months before his death. 2480. A similar specimen; but the interior of the cavity is smoother than that in the preceding specimen. VI" 2481. A Section of a Cerebellum and Pons, with a clot of blood recently effused in the middle of the Pons. VL 65 The effusion appeared to be the cause of sudden death in a person who was already hemiplegio from a former attack of apoplexy. 2482. Section of a Pons Varolii, showing a small clot of blood in its substance. From a man, aged 35 years, who was admitted into the Hospital twenty-four days before death with delirium and vomiting. He was sensible when spoken to, and complained of headache ; con- sciousness remained until within half an hour of his death. There was no convulsion or difficulty of respiration. The lateral ventricles contained about 5 oz. of fluid, and the convolutions of the hemispheres were much flattened. The vessels of the brain and the cranial sinuses were remark- ably anaemic. 2483. Section of the Pons Varolii, and of some adjacent structures. A con- siderable quantity of blood is effused into its substance, the clots presenting a striated appearance. ^ In this case the fatal effusion took place into the substance of the cerebrum. Other portions of the brain are preserved in the Museum of Guy's Hospital. From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION (CEREBRTTIS). ABSCESS. 2484. Portion of Cerebrum, exhibiting the cavity of an abscess in its substance. The walls of the cavity are irregular and very rough. VI. 21 2485. Portion of Cerebrum, exhibiting an abscess in its anterior lobe, which com- municated with the lateral ventricle of the same side. vi. 22 The patient was a man, 40 years old, who appeared to die exhausted by syphilis and the effects of mercury. The only cerebral symptoms were extreme restlessness and delirium at night. The case is related by Mr. Earle, in the Medical and Physical Journal, vol. xxxiii, p. 89. London, 1810. 2486. Portion of Cerebrum, in the left hemisphere of which there is a cavity an inch and a half in diameter, which contained pus. The cavity is situated immediately over the fissura Sylvii; its walls are distinct, thin, smooth on both surfaces, and easily separable from the surrounding substance of the brain. vi. 29 The patient had purulent discharge from the left ear for five weeks before his death. He died suddenly. The petrous portion of the temporal bone, over which the abscess was situated, was extensively diseased. The portion of brain between the abscess and the bone was dark and sloughy.