462 DISEASES AND INJURIES INCIDENTAL TO GESTATION AND PARTURITION. left Fallopian tube is dilated by an ovum. The dilatation is laid open, and the chorion and other parts of the ovum are shown. The uterus is slightly enlarged, and its cavity is lined by a substance like decidua. There is a simple cyst in the right ovary. xxxiii. 13 Rupture of the dilated portion of the Fallopian tube took place in the seventh week of gestation, and the patient died of h«einorrhage. 3071. A similar specimen, in which, as in the preceding case, death was the result of haemorrhage from the ruptured Fallopian tube in the seventh week of gestation. The middle of the right Fallopian tube is dilated into a sac, which contains the foetus and its membranes. In one side of this sac is a small lacerated opening, through which the flocculent chorion protrudes. From this opening a gallon of blood was discharged into the cavity of the abdomen. On its other side, a large portion of the sac has been removed to display the foetus and membranes. The outermost membrane enclosing the foetus has all the characters of decidua. Besides this membrane, the amnion and chorion are distinct. The foetus and umbilical cord are also perfect. The right ovary con- tains a lai'ge corpus luteum, distinguishable by its circular form and yellowish colour. A bristle is passed through the aperture in the ovary from which the ovum escaped. There is also a large cyst in this ovary which contained a watery fluid. The cavity of the uterus is lined throughout by a perfect and thick decidua. Bristles are passed through it into the uterus. A bristle is also passed through the Fallopian tube into the dilated portion of it, which contains the foetus and its membranes. xxxiii. 14 A Drawing of the specimen is preserved, No. 519. 3072. Portion of the broad ligament of a Uterus, with the Fallopian tube and ovary. In the middle of its course the Fallopian tube is distended by the development of an embryo within it. On the surface of this part there is a small irregular aperture, through which fatal haemorrhage into the abdomen took place. The ovary is large; at its lower part is a very large corpus luteum with a central cavity. xxxiii. 15 The patient, in the seventh week of her tenth pregnancy, was suddenly seized with pain in the situation of the Fallopian tube, and signs of internal haemorrhage, and died in ten hours. Presented by Dr. Conquest. 3073. A Uterus, with the Fallopian tubes and ovaries. A foetus has been developed in the right Fallopian tube close to the uterus, and has attained a length of between three and four inches. The placenta and the several mem. branes of the ovum are well formed. The uterus is covered by coagulated blood, effused probably from the ruptured Fallopian tube. xxxiii. 16 3074. A similar specimen, in which the foetus, contained in the left Fallopian tube, is yet further developed, and measm*es between five and six inches in length. Both it and its membranes are well formed. xxxiii. 17 3075. Extra-uterine Foetation, apparently interstitial. Sudden death occurred from ruptm-e of the cyst. 3076. The Cyst of an extra-uterine Foetus, distended with hair; the uterus is greatly enlarged. Sent by Dr. King, of Barbadoes, to Dr. Campbell, who described it in his book on extra- uterine foetation. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3077. The Uterus and its appendages of a woman, aged 39 years, pregnant for the fourth time, in whom an intra- and extra-uterine foetation (tubal) pro- gressed to the full period of gestation. Beyond unusual distension of the