178 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF MUSCLES, 1205. Part of the left Knee-Joint of a child, with the muscles and tendons forming the inner boundary of the popliteal space. The bursa between the tendon of the semi-membranosus and the inner head of the gastrocnemius is enlarged so as to form an elongated oval, lobed cyst, about two inches m leng^ and an inch and a half in width. v> Presented by Dr. James Keid. Enlargement with Fibrous Bands stretching across the Interior. 1206. Two enlarged Bursse, removed with the integuments from over the Patellae of the same person. The walls of both the bursee are thick, tough, and lami- nated, and cords are attached by one or both extremities to their internal n ' V. 13 surlaces. 1207. A similar Specimen. The cyst is larger than either of the preceding, and was distended by a honey-like fluid. v- 1208 A similar specimen removed after death with the patella and other parts. The enlarged bursa is laid open from the front, showing its interior traversed by numerous slender tendinous cords, from some of which lobulated growths are suspended. 1209. Part of a Patella, with the bursa lying on its anterior surface. The bursa is enlarged, its walls thickened, and tough fibrous cords pass across its interior running almost horizontally from side to side, attached at either extremity, but free inlhe rest of their extent. v- Enlargement with Thickening of the Walls. 1210. An enlarged Bursa, removed with the integuments from the front of a Patella The walls of the bursa are between two and three lines m thickness, touo-h fibrous and laminated, audits cavity was nearly filled by a substance like5 fibrin or imperfect false membrane, some of which is still attached to its internal surface. V' 1211. Sections of a Bursa, which was removed from the front of a Patella. In consequence of long standing inflammation, its walls have become from one to four lines in thickness, and very bard, tough, and coarsely fibrous Its internal surface is irregular, and its cavity was filled by a small quantity of yellow fluid, in which the small white bodies, now lying at the bottom of the bottle were contained. Most of these bodies are hollow, their walls being formed by a soft white substance. v> 1212 Two Bursa?, which were removed from the anterior surfaces of the patellae of 'the same person. In each specimen the cavity of the bursa is almost com- pletely obliterated by the formation of a firm fleshy substance m !t, thickening its walls. 1213 An enlarged Bursa removed from over the patella. Its walls are greatly thickened and its interior is about half filled with tendinous cords and lobulated growths. ' Many of the latter are attached by slender pedicles, and are loosely suspended from the walls. v- 1214 A Bursa Patella. Its cavity is much enlarged, and its walls thickened. It contained a clear, yellowish-brown viscid fluid, in which floated a number of pinkish, semi-transparent glistening bodies of various shapes and sizes, and presenting a nodulated surface. Kemored from a woman, aged 60, in whom it had existed many years. 1215. An enlarged Bursa Patella inverted, showing two nodular outgrowths