DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE URINARY BLADDER. 3<>9 into the rectum. This passage is laid open for the purpose of showing a cal- culus which is lodged within it. The ureters are dilated, and there is a small calculus in each just before its termination in the bladder. The mucous mem- brane of the reotum is raised into thick and hard folds. The three calculi at the bottom of the bottle were found in the bladder. XXVII. lb* Presented by James GKllinan, Esq. Vide Nos. 2399, 2404. 2434. The Bladder, Urethra, and a portion of the Os Pubis of a man upon whom the operation of lithotomy had been performed. A portion of the front of the bladder is destroyed by ulceration ; the remaining part is thickened and diffusely ulcerated. A large calculus is lodged within the prostate gland, in which it appears gradually to have formed a cavity of such size that only a thin layer of the proper substance of the gland remains around it. XXVII. 13 2435. A Urinary Bladder, somewhat dilated and with some thickening of its wall. At the neck is a cavity extending towards the rectum, and occupying the position of the prostate gland, in which a soft phosphatic calculus lies. The specimen was taken from a child, aged 3 years, who for six months had suffered from frequent, difficult, and painful micturition, for which circumcision had been performed. The stone was not detected with the sound. The child died suddenly. The right kidney is pre- ferred in Series XXVIII, No. 2372 i the left kidney was healthy.—See Lucas Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 55. 2436. The Urinary Bladder of a fat pig. It contains a large quantity of crystal- line and fatty-looking material, mixed with long bristles : and the hoof seen suspended in the bottle was found imbedded in this material, which completely filled the bladder and appeared to block up the urethra, when the viscus was opened. The crystalline substance consists of triple phosphates. It appears probable that the hoof and hairs found their way into the bladder from a dermoid cyst, or extra-uterine foetation, and that these determined the deposit of phosphates. CALCULOUS DEPOSIT ON THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 2437. The Bladder of a girl, 13 years old. Its muscular coat is very thick, strong, and fasciculated. Its mucous membrane also is thickened and deeply wrinkled, and the summits of many of the wrinkles are coated with grains of calculous matter. At the commencement of the urethra the mucous membrane is torn, xxvii. 38 The patient died with peritonitis and suppuration in the pelvis, on the sixth day after an operation, by which small fragments of calculus were removed. The calculus is in Series LII Vide Nos. 2397, 2406, 2410. FOREIGN BODIES REMOVED FROM THE BLADDER. 2438. Three pieces of India-rubber Tubing found, thickly encrusted with phos- phates, in the bladder of a man, aged 34 years, who was admitted into the Hospital with symptoms of stone. He stated that, about five months previously, he had fallen astride a board, striking the perinasum, and that after the accident he passed bloody urine for some days; since then he had had much diffi- culty m holding his water, which was always thick. He persistently denied that an instrument had ever been passed into his bladder. Lithotomy was per- formed four times, as his bladder was thought to contain a soft calculus. He died from acute inflammation of the whole genito-urinary tract. 2439. 1 Catheter, which accidentally slipped into a woman's bladder, and, after remaining there for fifteen days, was removed through the urethra after dilatation by sponge-tents. XXVII g5 siZlTuie" »yi^r' S°g00?' b7 Wl10m ?? °aSe i8 d°SCribed in llis " Reminiscences of a Profes- sional Lite, p. lo6. The instrument is of the usual size of those employed for the female bladder. INJURIES OF, AND OPERATIONS UPON, THE BLADDER RUPTURE. 2440. A Bladder, exhibiting a rupture in the upper and back part of the fundus 2 B