102 DISEASES OF JOINTS. penetrated by ulcers extending deeply into the cancellous tissue, and having irregular rounded edges. The intervening portions of the articular layer are smooth and slightly polished. Around the articular borders and on the sesamoid bones new bone is formed in irregular nodules. The shafts of all the bones appear healthy. IL ^5 700. The Bones of a Great Toe, in which, probably in consequence of chronic rheumatism, the articular surfaces of the metatarsal bone and first phalanx are in part destroyed, and there is an abundant deposit of hard nodulated new bone around their borders. n- ^8 701. The Bones of two Toes, exhibiting ulceration of their articular surfaces, and growths of bone around and near their articular borders ; the effects probably of rheumatic disease. B> ^5 (In Case Or.) , K For Specimens of Rheumatic Disease of (he Articulations of the Spine, see Series V, JXos. 1085 et seq. SHOULDER - JOINTS, PROBABLY AFFECTED WITH RHEUMATOID AR- THRITIS, IN WHICH THE TENDON OF THE BICEPS HAS BEEN WORN THROUGH. 702. A Shoulder-Joint. The capsule is thickened : in its upper part is an irregular opening, and the tendon of the supra-spinatus is here seen to have been separated from the tuberosity of the humerus. The tendon of the biceps is attached to the upper part of the bicipital groove ; the intra-capsular portion appears to have been worn through, for a portion of it, in shreds, remains attached to the edge of the glenoid cavity. Numerous villous tufts and dendritic filaments project from the inner suface of the capsule, and the articular cartilage of the humerus is thinned, stained, and fibrous-looking in the centre. in. 59 703. The other Shoulder-Joint of the person from whom the preceding specimen was taken. The capsule is thickened. The tendon of the biceps, separated from the glenoid cavity, has become firmly adherent to the bicipital groove, and an irregular nodulated deposit of bone has taken place around the part to which it is now attached. A slight overgrowth, as a continuation of the deposit, has taken place at the margin of the articular cartilage, which appears fibrous, and hasl ost its polish. A few clumps of dendritic filaments are seen springing from thei nner surface of the capsule. nI- 60 The changes described in this and the preceding specimens are apparently due to rheumatoid arthritis. 704. The Upper Extremity of a Humerus. The tendon of the biceps is attached to the bicipital groove, and lesser tuberosity of the humerus. A low nodular overgrowth has taken place at the margin of the articular surface, probably as the result of rheumatoid arthritis. v- 10 705. A similar Specimen. An overgrowth described in the preceding is here more marked, and in addition there is a circular patch of dry caries in the centre of the articular surface. V. 11 These are probably the specimens referred to by Mr. Stanley in a paper on " Enpture of the tendon of the biceps," Medical Gazette, vol. iii. 706. A Humerus and a Scapula. There is a deposit of bone upon the end of the acromion, presenting an excavation on its under surface. The great tuberosity of the humerus presents a convex surface, which appears to have been adapted to, and to have moved upon, the concavity on the under part of the acromion. b. 44 It is probable that these changes followed the destruction of the tendon of the biceps muscle, either by disease or by accidental rupture.