HERNLZE OR PROTRUSIONS, AND OTHER 320 hernia. On one side the intestine exhibits but a slight indentation from the stricture; on its other side, which corresponded with Gimbernat's ligament, there is a large aperture in it, and its coats are very thin. xvii. 80 2104. Portion of Small Intestine, which was strangulated in a femoral hernia. Its coats have sloughed and given way at that part of its circumference which lay nearest to Gimbernat's ligament. xvn. 18 2105. A portion of Jejunum, of which a part of the circumference was strangu- lated in one of the crural canals. The strangulated portion has been drawn out like a short diverticulum from the rest of the intestine, and has a wide ulcerated aperture through its coats at the part which was nearest to Gimbernat's liga- ment, xvii. 85 2106. Portion of Small Intestine from a femoral hernia. Several openings have been formed in consequence of the sloughing of the part of the intestine whicb was inclosed in the stricture, and around these openings the coats of the intes- tine are very soft and readily separable. xvn. 43 2107. Portion of an Ileum, which was strangulated in an umbilical hernia. In the situation of the stricture the intestine is considerably contracted, and its coats have sloughed and given way in the greater part of its circumference. xvn. 16 2108. A portion of Small Intestine, with an elongated ragged aperture in its wall, where a well-marked constriction exists. From a man, aged 49 years, who was admitted to the Hospital with a strangulated umbilical hernia. During the operation of herniotomy a narrow slough, more than one inch long, escaped from the opening described ; no doubt it consisted of the portions of the mucous and muscular coats corresponding to the line of constriction. 2109. Femoral Hernia, containing a portion of gangrenous intestine. The mortified intestine, of a white colour and with lymph deposited on it, is in the centre of the sac. The upper and lower portions of intestine leading to the strangulated part are laid open; the upper portion is distinguishable by the thickness of its coats and the dilatation of its canal. xxii. 66 2110. Fluid removed from a portion of small intestine which was strangulated, and intensely congested and inflamed in a hernia. The fluid is pale yellowish, pellucid, thin, albuminous, not spontaneously coagulating. With the micro- scope, abundant leucocytes were found in it. This fluid is, probably, an example of what is produced in acute inflammation of the mucous membrane of the small intestine. The portion of inflamed intestine being, by the strangula- tion, shut off from communication with the rest of the canal, the fluid produced in it had scarcely any mixture of the ordinary intestinal contents. The quantity of it was so large, that it was necessary to puncture the distended part, in order to reduce the intestine. xvi. 102 Vide Nos. 2092, 2126. TJNTJSTJAIi CONTENTS OF HERNIiE. 2111. Large Inguinal Hernia. A portion of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, dis- placed from its natural situation by the dragging downwards of the peritoneal protrusion, is situated close by the mouth of the sac. From the appearance of the intestine, it is possible that the sigmoid flexure had constituted the contents of the sac. xvn. 32 2112. Femoral Hernia, of unusually large size. The contents of the sac are omentum, with part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon and a portion of small intestine. xvn. 41