507 GENERAL PATHOLOGY. wit* severe pain. It was firm, but by long compression could »*^»^JS*!l± sizo as if bv saueezine blood from it. Several small arteries pulsated at its base, ana very Z%ZL%:?Z™L sinuses, converged from it to the upper part rftj. vein The skin had been ulcerated on a .mall portion of the tumour tor twelve months, and the ulcer ha^eli:^o structures wore obscure, but confirmed the appearances which made, it probable that the tumour is one of the venous vascular or erectile kind ; and of that vanety in which the blood-vessels, from whose growth the peculiarities ot the tumour are derived, are the capillaries ami veins of a new-formed part. mL:mA V Ait inn A further ac c ount of the ease is in Sir J. Paget's « Lectures on Pathology/ Third Edition, p. 583. A drawing is preserved, No. 593. 3349. A Tumour which was pendulous from the skin of an axilla. It is so chained by the congestion that followed the tying of its pedicle, that its proper textures cannot now be distinguished. It had the general aspect of a peduncu- lated outgrowth of skin: but nearly its whole mass consisted of minute blood- vessels confusedly arranged and of various sizes. XXXY, 91 The patient was 60 years old. The growth had existed many years, and shortly before its removal had increased quickly. It was dark, hard, and knotty ; it pulsated distinctly, and a large artery could be felt in its pedicle. It is probable that these peculiarities depended on the morbid growth of the capillaries and minute arteries of a previously ordinary cutaneous out- growth. . . A further account is in the work last cited, Third Edition, p. 593. Presented by Dr. Ormerod. 3350. A Tumour divided by a vertical section, which was removed from the inner part of the thigh of a woman, aged 55. Its base rested on the deep fascia, and when dissected off presented a smooth, uniform surface, in which the orifices of a few large veins were visible. The greater portion of its sub- stance is sponge-like but compact, and consists of a dense vascular network. The part towards the circumference is solid, and its minute structure is ob- scurely fibrous. The tumour had existed for five years, and for the last six months had more rapidly increased in size. xxxv. 121 3351. A Tumour removed from the substance of the left semi-tendinosus muscle of a firl, aged 17 years. It is principally composed of blood-vessels. xxxv. 118 3352. Section of a Tumour removed from a woman's leg. It was lens-shaped, broadly oval, about four inches in its chief diameter, and an inch and a half in thickness, attached over the fascia of the leg by a narrow base, which all its margins overhung. It is close-textured, but soft and brittle, of ochre-yellow colour, and on its cut surface presenting very numerous minute apertures, like the orifices of divided and collapsed small veins. The skin covering it is thinned and tense. At its upper part is a large clot of blood, extravasated the day before the tumour was removed. xxxv. 63 The patient was a healthy-looking woman, 51 years old. Twenty years before the removal of this tumour, and from the same part of the leg, a " wen" was removed which had been growing for six months. She remained well for ten years, then this tumour began to grow at the scar of the previous operation. It increased slowly for nine years, and very quickly for the last year, during which also bleeding several times occurred from a superficially ulcerated part of the skin. It was noticed that, by pressure, the tumour could be much reduced in size, as if by pressing blood from it; and that, on removing the pressure, it quickly regained its size, as if by the refilling of very numerous blood-vessels. Under the microscope its tissues were found obscured, and indistinguishable through extreme fatty degeneration. It may be regarded as a degenerate venous erectile, or vascular tumour. ******* TUMOURS OF UNCERTAIN NATURE. 3353. A Bony Tumour, or outgrowth from the junction of the petrous portion