CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. 571 106. Cast of an Upper Jaw, with one supernumerary incisor tooth. 107. A similar Specimen. 108. Cast of a Lower Jaw, with a supplemental bicuspid tooth. The five preceding specimens were presented by Isidor J. Lyons, Esq. 109. Cast of a Face, with a molar tooth projecting through the integuments covering the left angle of the lower jaw. Presented by J. C. Clendon, Esq. 110. Cast of an Upper Jaw, exhibiting the deformity of the incisor teeth pro- duced by congenital syphilis. Presented by A. Coleman, Esq. 111. Cast of an Upper Jaw with a perforation of the hard palate from syphilitic necrosis. 112. Cast of an Upper Jaw, showing the gap left by the necrosis of a portion of the alveolus after scarlet fever. 113. A similar Specimen. The necrosis was the result of syphilis. 114. Cast of the Upper Jaw of an old man, showing complete absorption of the hard palate. He suffered from a perforation of the hard palate, which he plugged with a pad of calico, m order to prevent the passage of food into the nares. The continuous enlargement of the opening, from absorption, necessitated a corresponding enlargement of the plug, thus producing the result shown in the Specimen. 115. Cast of an Upper Jaw after the removal of the right superior maxilla. 116. Cast of an Upper Jaw, with an epulis springing up between the first and second left incisor teeth. The six preceding Specimens were presented by Isidor J. Lyons, Esq. DISEASES OE THE SALIVARY GLANDS. 117. Cast of a Face, with a swelling produced by inflammation of the parotid gland, and suppuration in its interlobular tissue. The patient had typhoid fever. DISEASES OF THE STOMACH AND INTESTINES. 118. Model of the Stomach and Duodenum of a person poisoned with sulphuric acid. HERNIA. 119. Cast of an Inguinal Hernia in a lad. Presented by George Macilwain, Esq. 120. Cast of an Inguinal Hernia in a man. 121. Cast of a very large Inguinal Hernia in a man. Presented by George Macilwain, Esq. 122. Cast of a large Inguinal Hernia in a man. The irregularities of the surface of the swelling appeared to be connected with thinning and partial absorption of the hernial sac. r 123. Cast of two Inguinal Hernias in a male. That on the right side contained