51 DISEASES OF BONES. connected with the femur only by soft substance, and it fitted in an excavation in the femur upon which it had freely moved. 380. Sections of a Cancellous Exostosis which was removed from the inner and lower part of a Femur, to which it was attached by a narrow base. A layer of cartilage invests it, and is itself invested by a thin layer of fibrous tissue. i. 231 381. An Exostosis removed by operation from the Femur, just above the inner condyle, of a girl 16 years old. The exterior of the tumour is covered by a thin layer of dense fibrous tissue ; beneath this is a layer of cartilage enclosing the bone, which has a cancellous texture and contains medulla. i. 178 382. A large Exostosis removed from the inner and back surface of the lower end of the left Femur of a man aged 22 years. He had known of its existence for six years. It had lately grown very rapidly. There were nine or ten smaller tumours of the same kind on other bones. I. 329 383. The Femur sawn through, from which the preceding preparation was removed, with the bones of the leg and foot, showing several exostoses of various size on different parts; all of them are situated near the extremities of the bones. A. 169 (In Case Gr.) 384. A slender growth of bone springing from the Femur just above the internal condyle, and probably in relation with the tendon of the adductor magnus. A. 134 (In Case G.) 385. Section of a Cancellous Exostosis removed from the upper and inner part of a girl's Tibia. Its base and central part are formed of fine cancellous osseous tissue, and its exterior is formed of a layer of cartilage, like that of the foetal skeleton. i. 281 386. Sections of a Cancellous Exostosis removed from the Tibia ; it is covered by a thin layer of cartilage. I. 245 387. Part of the shaft of a Fibula, with a cancellous exostosis which grew from the fibular aspect of the tibia. The tumour, of somewhat spherical shape, and about an inch in diameter, was attached to the tibia by a narrow pedicle ; its surface is covered by a layer of cartilage. As it grew outwards, the fibula adapted itself to it, forming a curve and flattening itself over its convex surface. i. 299 The patient was a young girl. The tumour was of slow growth, and before removal was supposed to spring from the fibula, whose thinned shaft coidd not be distinguished from its surface. Recovery followed the operation. 388. A Cancellous Exostosis removed from the metatarsal bone of the Great Toe of a man 19 years old. Its exterior is covered by a thin layer of cartilage, which is invested by fibrous tissue. j. 182 389. The terminal Phalanx of a Great Toe, on the inner margin of which, near its distal extremity, there is a flattened, broad exostosis, composed of hard finely cancellous texture, and attached by a narrow base. The adjacent part of the phalanx has spongy new bone deposited upon it. I. 226 390. The terminal Phalanx of a Great Toe, near the end of the upper surface of which there is an exostosis, composed of hard and finely cancellous bone. i. 106 Presented by Robert Liston, Esq. 391. Sections of the terminal Phalanx of a Great Toe, exhibiting an exostosis e 2