DISEASES OF BONES. the coronal suture, and from one squamous suture to the other. Within the skull it formed a layer, in about two-thirds of the same extent, and of the same general shape, gradually increasing its depth and thickness from its borders to its central part. That part of the tumour which is external to the skull has a nearly uniform, dense, firm, and elastic texture of dull yellowish colour mingled with ' white ; it appears neither lobed nor granular, nor fibrous. The intra' cranial portion appeared in the recent state more plainly than it does now, soft, and medullary, with a fibrous grain vertical to the surface of the skull. It was much more vascular than the extra-cranial portion, had a dark purple or livid colour streaked with pale grey and pink, and near the skull was intersected with white bands of fibres of the dura mater. The microscopic characters of both portions of the tumour agreed, in all essential respects, with those of the fibro-plastic tumours (myeloid sarcomata). The scalp adheres closely to all the parts of the tumour that it covers ; but at the centre of the vertex is destroyed by a wide and deep ulcer penetrating the substance of the tumour. The pericranium is completely involved in the tumour and cannot now be traced. The texture of the parietal bones, as shown more plainly in the next specimen, is expanded and made irregularly cancellous, by the formation of substance within them like that of the tumour on their surfaces ; and from both their surfaces fine growths of bone extend into the corresponding parts of the tumour. The dura mater is involved in the substance of the intra-cranial portion of the tumour, but is less completely lost sight of than is the pericranium ; parts of the falx and of the walls of the longi- tudinal sinus may still be traced. This intra-cranial part of the tumour is deeply imbedded in the cerebral hemispheres, and adheres closely to parts oP their surfaces ; there is no confusion from infiltration of the brain substance, but that of the hemispheres appears compressed and absorbed. On the left side a large cavity, which contained pus, exists between parts of the tumour and of the surface of the brain. It was lined with vascular granulations. T. 203 456. The other half of the upper part of the same Skull, macerated and dried. It shows more perfectly the expanded state of the portions of bones involved in the tumour, and the new bone grown up from their surfaces. This new bone forms a layer from one to four lines in thickness, and is composed of fine lamellos and fibres, the chief of which are set almost vertically on the skull, and of which the general shape and arrangement are exactly like those of normal cancellous tissue or of light bone formed in periosteal inflammations. l. 294 The patient was a farmer's boy, 15 years old : the tumour was of nearly three years' duration, and was ascribed to repeated blows on the head. It increased regularly, and in the last three months was attended with severe pains in the head, and with gradually increasing imperfection of walking and other movements, and of the sight and hearing. Two days before death convulsions ensued, and these were followed by coma. In addition to the appearances already described, extensive suppuration was found in the tissue of the pia mater. 457. Section of the anterior part of a Lower Jaw, and of a tumour formed within it. The anterior and posterior walls of the jaw are disparted, and form a thin layer, like a capsule of bone, around the tumour which has grown between and gradually expanded them. Their tissue appears unchanged. The tumour is of oval form, and measured about two and a half and one and a half inches in its chief diameters. Its substance is generally firm and compact, without any distinct fibrous or other texture; immediately after removal it had a greyish tinge, suffused with deep crimson, brownish and purple blotches; it presented the microscopic characters of a "fibro-plastic" tumour (myeloid sarcoma). The cut surface of the tumour presents the sections of several cysts which were irregularly placed within its substance, and were filled with clear yellowish fluid. x. 273