DISPLACEMENTS OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL AND OMENTUM. /3. Of the Contents of the Hernial Sac. THICKENING AND INDURATION OF THE OMENTUM. 2093. A large portion of Omentum, which was removed in the operation npon an inguinal hernia. It is in many parts thickened and indurated. xvii. 59 2094. A large portion of Omentum, which was removed in an operation for strangulated inguinal hernia. Its tissue is generally indurated ; and it exhibits numerous apertures bounded by blood-vessels, which form in some parts a kind of irregular network. XVI- 49 The patient completely recovered. 2095. A large portion of Omentum, partially indurated, which was cut off in an operation for strangulated inguinal hernia. The narrow portion by which it is suspended was attached to a protruded piece of large intestine; the rest was unattached. xvir. 86 The patient, an elderly woman, recovered after the operation, so that it is impossible to say under what circumstances so large a portion of the omentum had become connected with the large intestine alone, and with it by only a narrow pedicle. Vide No. 2125. THE INTESTINE—EFFECTS OF STRANGULATION. 2096. Strangulated Femoral Hernia, upon which no operation was performed. The sac and its coverings are in great part removed. The portion of small intestine contained in the sac presents a black and mottled 'appearance, from the intense congestion of its vessels. The small calibre of the intestine below the strangulated part is strongly marked. xvn. 77 2097. A portion of an Ileum, showing a small dark pouch projecting from the intestinal wall, which was adherent to the sac of a femoral hernia. From a man, aged 48 years, on whom herniotomy was performed in the Hospital. The hernia had been strangulated forty-eight hours, and had twice been returned by taxis, again reappearing. The patient died suddenly, forty-eight hours after the operation, apparently from exhaustion. The heart was affected with fatty degeneration. 2098. Strangulated Femoral Hernia, from a male. The contents of the sac are omentum and intestine. The sac is separated from the fascia propria, and opened. The epigastric artery is situated immediately above and to its outer side. xvii. 21 2099. Portion of Small Intestine, from an inguinal hernia, exhibiting the im- pression of the stricture upon its coats. xvii. 42 2100. Section of a portion of Small Intestine, which was strangulated in a femoral hernia, to show the sharp-edged fold of mucous membrane which projects into the canal of the strangulated portion, from the angle formed by the portions above and below it. xvii. 89 2101. Portion of Small Intestine from a femoral hernia, exhibiting the effects of strangulation. The intestine has been opened. Near its upper border the impression of the stricture is marked by the thickening and partial ulceration of its coats. The lower portion of the intestine, which was strangulated, is distinguished by its dark colour and pulpy texture. xvii. 44 2102. Portion of a Jejunum, which was strangulated in an umbilical hernia. In the situation of the stricture, the intestine is contracted, and immediately above this is a small round ulcerated aperture, into which a portion of glass is inserted. Kecent lymph is deposited on the peritoneum around this aperture. xvii. 17 2103. Portion of Small Intestine, which was strangulated in the sac of a femoral