380 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 2512. Choroid Plexuses, in which there are small thin-walled cysts containing a soft substance. vi. 27 Many of the lymphatic glands of the patient were enlarged, and contained a substance similar to that which fills these cysts. HYDROCEPHALUS. 2513. A Brain affected with internal hydrocephalus. The lateral ventricles of either side, and the third and fourth ventricles are much dilated; the aqueduct of Sylvius is of about the normal calibre. These cavities contained a slightly turbid serous fluid. The lining membrane of the ventricles is thickened and opaque. A thick opaque and vascular membrane, continuous with the pia mater, extended from the posterior part of the median lobe of the cerebellum to the posterior pyramids of the medulla oblongata, completely closing in the fourth ventricle ; no aperture could be detected in it. Only the remains of this structure are now to be seen. The layers of pia mater lining the inner surface of the hemispheres and fissure of Sylvius had coalesced. No tubei*cles are visible. The central canal of the spinal cord was not dilated. From a woman, aged 27 years. She had been ailing since her confinement, which occurred six months before her admission to the Hospital. Five weeks ago she became strange in manner and wandered at night. Soon after her admission, persistent vomiting, with noisy delirium at night, came on. Her temperature was raised irregularly, occasionally as high as 102° Falir. She had on one occasion an epileptiform convulsion, lasting three-quarters of an hour. Finally she lapsed into a state of amentia, and died eleven weeks from the commencement of her illness.— See Faith Ward Book, vol. ix. p. 146. 2514. Part of the Brain of a man, 28 years old, who had hydrocephalus in his infancy, and whose head was enlarged and somewhat deformed in consequence of that disease. The whole of the internal surface of the ventricles is finely granulated, and appeared to be indurated. The inferior surface of the edges of the fornix is intimately adherent to the surface of the choroid plexus, and, through its medium, to the upper surface of the optic thalami. vi. 64< The mind of the patient appeared in no degree affected by this disease : he was a very skilful furniture-painter ; and died of a disease independent of the state of his brain. 2515. Section of a lateral Ventricle of the Brain dilated from hydrocephalus. 6 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M,D. 2516. One hemisphere of the Cerebrum, greatly distended from chronic hydro- cephalus. The ventricle contained several pints of fluid. 7 From a child 15 months old. From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2517. Portion of Cerebrum, exhibiting the septum lucidum stretched in conse- quence of the distension of the lateral ventricles with fluid. In the anterior portion of the septum there is a large irregular opening traversed by thin shreds ; and the posterior portion of the septum, which remains, is very thin. vi. 41 2518. A similar specimen, except that the opening is in the posterior portion of the septum lucidum, and has smoother and more even edges. vi. 42 HYDROCEPHALIC SKULLS. 2519. Skull of a girl, 11 years old. The enlargement of the skull in consequence of hydrocephalus is effected by its elongation, and by the depression and hollowing of its base. An increase of width appears to have been prevented by the premature and complete closure of the sagittal suture. The coronal suture, and that between the frontal bone and the lesser alee of the sphenoid, are widely open. The superior walls of the orbits are pressed downwards. The bones,