URINARY CALCULI. *>*° Oxalate of Lime and some Phosphate of Lime; externally, mixed Phosphates ■with a little Urate of Ammonia. From the bladder of a boy 5i years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle. 90. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia with some Phosphate and Oxalate of Lime ; coated by the Fusible Calculus. From the bladder of a boy 8 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Vincent. 91. Section of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia with a little Oxalate of Lime ; externally, the Phosphates. From the bladder of a child 4 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle. 92. Sections of a Calculus. Impure Urate of Ammonia, surrounded by a layer of the Phosphates. 93. Section of a Calculus. Mixed Phosphates with thin layers of Urate of Ammonia. This specimen was presented by the Council of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. CALCULI HAVING- THREE LAYERS. URATE OF AMMONIA. URIC ACID. EARTHY PHOSPHATES. 94. Section of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia with Oxalate of Lime ; surrounded by impure Uric Acid containing some layers of Oxalate of Lime; coated by the Fusible Calculus. From the bladder of a man 27 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle. URATE OP AMMONIA. OXALATE OF LIME. EARTHY PHOSPHATES. 95. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia with a little Oxalate of Lime, surrounded by pure Oxalate of Lime; the whole coated by the mixed Phosphates. From the bladder of a man. Lithotomy by Sir James Earle. 96. Section of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia with Oxalate of Lime; surrounded by Oxalate of Lime, and coated by the Phosphates. From the bladder of a boy 10 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Vincent. 97. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus, chiefly Urate of Ammonia, with a little Oxalate of Lime; coated by Oxalate of Lime; and externally by the Phosphates. From the bladder. Lithotomy by Sir Wm, Lawrence. 98. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia with a small quantity of Oxalate of Lime; the next layer, Oxalate of Lime; coated by the mixed Phosphates. From the bladder. Lithotomy by Sir Wm. Lawrence. 99. Sections of a Calculus. Greater portion, Oxalate of Lime, coated by the mixed Phosphates: central portion, Urate of Ammonia. From the bladder of a boy 12 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Vincent. 100. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia; next, Oxalate of Lime and Phosphates ; lastly, pure Phosphates. From the bladder of a boy. Lithotomy by Sir Wm. Lawrence.