258 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE 1672. Part of a Bone-like Plate removed from the right pleura. xiv. 71 From the body of a man, aged 40, who died on board H.M.S - Briton » from bronchitis of lone standing. The right pulmonary pleura was found everywhere adherent to the paiietal ayegr so hat mueh force was necessary to detach the lung. The whole of the right cavity_ of the chest was lined with what looked like a firm bony covering, ^™*Z**Z~ % spine and angles of the ribs, becoming gradually thinner as it approached ^<"J^ J* the thickest part it measured more than half an inch and had the deposited in layers ; for on breaking off masses-and it required considerable force to do this -pus exuded in small quantities from between the laminse, of which it was composed. Presented by Frederick Jowers, Esq. 1673. An irregular bony plate, which was removed from the left pleural cavity of a man, aged 55 ; it was firmly adherent by dense fibrous bands to the costal and visceral pleura on either side. The apex of the left lung presented evi- dence of phthisis. There was advanced calcareous degeneration of the arteries. „ ,, „ Presented by F. A. Hallsworth Esq. 1674. A portion of false membrane which has undergone calcareous degeneration. From the collection of J< E. Farre, Esq., M.D. Vide No. 3224, Series L. 1675 Portion of a Lung, with the Pleura covering it, and the pleura which lined the corresponding part of the chest. Both these layers of pleura are con- tL^^oL^VesVeCM\j in the lower part ; and the sac of the pleura is almost completely obliterated by the adhesion of their opposite surfaces. ^ ^ The patient was a woman, 30 years old, who, eighteen years before death coughed up a large quanSty of pus which, it is presumed, had been contained m the cavity of the pleura. The corresponding side of the chest was very much contracted. 1676. Portion of a Lung with the corresponding portions of pulmonary and costal pleura from a case ofempyema of long standing. The tissue of the lung is compressed. Both portions of pleura are covered by a layer of organized 3 a line in thickness and coarsely granulated on its inner surface The space between these layers was full of pus. 1677° P^rTof 1' Lung, the substance of which appears to have been filled with diLsefy infiltratedtubercular matter. The pleura investing it is thickened, opaque white, and perforated with numerous sharp-edged, oval apertures, from a line to half an inch in diameter. There are also small pits in the pleura, like fipletepeiforations, making progress from its free surface towards the^ub- stance of the lung. * 1678 Apex of a Lung, from a patient who died with Pneumothorax. On the ILvT^ice of the lung are two oval apertures, into which portions of glass ^ passed and which lead into small tubercular cavities There is a third apertu e near them, of smaller size, and partially closed by fake membrane. jl the upper part of the lung there is a large cavity; and all the rest of the pulmLary tissue is affected with tubercular disease m different stages. ^ ^ Vide No. 1688. DISEASES OF THE BBONCHIAL TUBES. DILATATION OF BRONCHI. 1679 Dilated Bronchial Tubes, with the pulmonary tissue surrounding them. The dLeter of the principal tube, in its recent state is indicated by the figures K^hed to the preparation. The lung is consolidated, and infiltrated with a