92 DISEASES OF JOINTS. close to the notch and a little above the tuberosity, in contact with the great sciatic nerve, under which bristles are passed. Immediately below the head of the bone is the obturator extern us muscle. The articular cartilage of the femur has been completely absorbed, and the surface of the bone is ulcerated and covered by lymph and granulations. No remains of the capsule are apparent. The shaft of the femur is fractured at the junction of the epiphysis of the great trochanter with the shaft. The periosteum is inflamed and sepa- rated from the bone some inches below the fracture, which occurred during life. The disease of the hip-joint was of long standing. n. 44 627. A Hip-Joint, in which acute disease had been several months in progress ; from a boy 10 years old. The head of the femur is displaced towards the dorsum of the ilium. Ulceration of the capsule had taken place, and the head of the bone was contained in a cavity formed by the remains of the capsule, and by the surrounding muscles. Within this cavity, as well as in the aceta- bulum, was a mixture of a large quantity of pus and caseous matter. The section of the head of the femur shows caseous matter deposited in its can- cellous texture. There is also a collection of caseous matter in the walls of the acetabulum communicating with its cavity and with the cavity of the pelvis. An abscess had formed between the periosteum and the shaft of the bone just below the trochanter. The sciatic nerve is seen upon the tuberosity of the ischium, near the dislocated head of the bone. n. 49 628. The head of the right Femur and the Acetabulum of a girl, aged 19. The femur was dislocated from disease of four years' duration, and there is a depression for the head of the bone above the acetabulum. The hip-joint was quite destroyed, and a large abscess in the front of the thigh communicated with the pelvis through an ulcerated aperture in the acetabulum. (In Case G.) 629. A Knee-Joint, in which anchylosis has been effected by the organization of lymph upon and between the opposite surfaces of the synovial membrane. A portion of the adherent synovial membrane is reflected from the front of the joint. The patella is firmly united to the external condyle of the femur ; and the tibia and fibula have been drawn backwards under the femur, lengthening and giving a very oblique direction to the external lateral ligament. The bones are atrophied. n. 7 630. A Knee-Joint, in which, in the course of inflammation of long standing, the Tibia and Fibula have been dislocated backwards, so that the head of the tibia is fixed to the posterior surface of the condyles of the femur. The patella is fixed by osseous anchylosis to the outer condyle. Both the lateral ligaments and the ligamentum patellae are much elongated, but their tissue appears healthy. n. 57 631. A Knee-Joint in which, during the course of long-continued inflammation, the Tibia has been dislocated backwards and outwards. Firm anchylosis by fibrous tissue has taken place between the inner half of the upper surface of the tibia and the condyles of the femur. The patella is anchylosed to the outer surface and lower margin of the outer condyle of the femur. The external and internal lateral ligaments, retaining their normal attachments, are much elongated. n. 55 632. A Knee-Joint, from a young subject, amputated on account of disease of the synovial membrane. The articular cartilages and bones are unaltered. The lateral ligaments are apparently unaltered in structure, but are considerably elongated, and have permitted displacement of the articular surfaces. n. 40