SERIES XXXIX. DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. HYPERTROPHY. 2829. A Prostate Gland, with parts of the bladder and rectum. The gland is greatly enlarged. The principal enlargement has taken place at the sides of the gland, and in the portion which is above and in front of the urethra: this portion is increased to upwards of an inch and a half in thickness, while the portion behind and below the urethra is scarcely thicker than is natural. The portion of the urethra is flattened laterally, and contracted. A portion of glass is introduced into a passage made by a trocar passed during life, from the rectum through the prostate gland into the urethra. The orifices of the ureters are much dilated. xxix. 1 2830. A Bladder, with the Prostate Gland greatly and uniformly enlarged. The urethra within the prostate is deepened and laterally compressed. The muscular coat of the bladder is hypertrophied; bristles are passed beneath strong fasciculi of muscular fibres extending from the ureters to the neck of the bladder. xxix. 3 2831. A Bladder and Prostate Gland. The prostate is much enlarged, and dis- tinct round portions of it project into the neck of the bladder, both behind and in front of the urethra. The urethra within the prostate takes a very oblique course, in consequence, apparently, of the left lobe of the gland being more en- larged than the right. xxix. 18 2832. A Bladder with the Prostate Gland laid open from the front. All the lobes of the prostate are greatly enlarged, and the third is deeply grooved along the mesial line; here a thin film of tissue bounds superiorly a passage which conducts into the bladder, the muscular coat of which is considerably hyper- trophied. xxix. 27 From an aged man, who had needed the daily employment of catheters for nine months preceding his death ; their route into the bladder is probably indicated by the above-mentioned groove and the canal which it contains. 2833. A greatly dilated Bladder, and the Prostate Gland. The three lobes of the prostate are enlarged, especially the third, which projects upwards almost at a right angle, and forms a valve over the vesical orifice. A piece of glass rod is placed in a false passage at the base of the middle lobe. The ureters and pelves of the kidneys were not dilated. From a man, aged 62 years, who never had any difficulty in micturition until eight days before his admission to the Hospital with retention. An elastic catheter was easily passed into the bladder.—See Henry Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 166. 2834. A Bladder with the Prostate Gland. The gland is generally enlarged ; but its posterior portion, or middle lobe, is enlarged much more than any other