474 DISEASES OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. completely separated by sloughing. The cavity left by its separation ulcerated widely and deeply, assuming the characters of a great cancerous ulcer, and the patient died exhausted nine months after the removal of the tumour. Hard white tumours, of cancerous appearance, were found in the lungs. Some of them are in Series XI, 1740; and part of the patient's stomach is in Series XVII, No. 1903. Vide No. 3296, Series L. HARD OR SCIRRHOUS CANCER. 3165. Sections of a Mammary Gland and the surrounding fat, in which an irregular mass of scirrhous cancer is embedded. The morbid structure presents a very hard, dull greyish basis, intersected by short bands, like fibres interwoven in a close irregular network. Some of these bands have a yellowish aspect, and on the surface of the lower section portions of the adipose tissue of the breast are seen enclosed within the cancerous substance. A few small cysts also are contained within it. The surface of the morbid structure is in- timately adherent to the surrounding tissues, and, at one part, can scarcely be distinguished from them. xxxiv. 4 The patient was 63 years old. Her mother, sister, and another relative had died with cancer of the breast. She died four days after the operation, with abscess under the sterno-mastoid muscle. Parts of a large cyst in one of her ovaries are preserved in Series XLI, Nos. 2917, 2918, 2919. 3166. A Tumour, with a portion of skin, removed from a breast. The tumour is nearly spherical, and appears to have been slightly connected with the surrounding parts. It is of pale, firm, and uniformly close texture, and is in- tersected by fine undulating fibres, like partitions, imperfectly dividing it into lobes. XXXIV- 5 Microscopically it presents the ordinary structure of scirrhous cancer.—See microscopic sections No. 149 ; and a drawing, A. 51. Presented by Dr. Conquest. 3167. Sections of a Tumour removed from the breast of an old woman. Its microscopic structure is that of a scirrhous cancer. xxxiv. 8 It had grown very slowly.—See microscopic section, No. 150. 3168. Section of a Breast and of a large Hard Cancer imbedded in it. The nipple is retracted to the surface of the tumour, and appears sunk in a deep pit in the integuments of the breast. The cancerous structure exhibits a pale dull-greyish basis, intersected in every direction by short wavy lines, like bundles of white fibres, which mingle together in a close irregular network. This fibrous structure is most distinct about the centre of the mass ; its exterior appears more homogeneous: its whole substance was almost incompressibly hard. The surface of the tumour is closely united to the surrounding tissues: its outline is irregular, small lobes extending from its surface into the adjacent fat. • . XXXIV- 14 From a woman 60 years old. 3169. Part of a Breast, in which the mammary gland contains two distinct tumours. One is a small round circumscribed mass, separated by a distinct capsule from the surrounding tissues, and consisting of a firm, elastic, pale substance, with white undulating lines forming imperfect partitions in it. At one portion also it presents the appearance of lobulated growths, filling small cysts, as in Nos. 3154 and 3162. The other tumour is a smaller and rather flattened mass, intimately united to the parts around it, very hard, greyish, densely and intricately interwoven with fibres. xxxiv. 17 The patient was a woman, 42 years old. The first described, fibro-cellular, tumour (? adenoma), had existed four years; the other, a hard cancer, had existed four months, and was growing slowly to the time of the removal of the breast. 3170. Section of a Breast and of a small Hard Cancer situated just below the