DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. 393 vascular tumour, which had been noticed by the patient four years before the removal of the eye. It grew from the outer side of the eye, at the sclero- corneal junction. The tumour was removed soon after its first appearance, but recurrence took place in six months, and it grew rapidly, at times bleeding a good deal. The contents of the globe were throughout normal. Ihe growtti is limited to the cornea and the subconjunctival tissue at the sclero-corneal junction; although closely attached it docs not perforate the cornea. Ine microscope showed that tin; tumour had the characters of a mixed round- and spindle-cell sarcoma.—See Ophthalmic Ward Book, Female, vol. i, p. 204. From a woman, aged 60 years. TRANSPLANTATION OF THE CORNEA. 2591. An Eye from which the Cornea was removed by a small cutting trephine. The lens was allowed to escape, and the cornea from another eye was sub- stituted for that removed, and kept in place by three silk sutures. The eye was removed seven days later on account of suppuration. The new cornea was found united to the sclerotic at the inner side, but elsewhere detached and sloughing.—See Ophthalmic Ward Booh, vol. i, p. 230. INJURIES OF THE CORNEA. WOUNDS. 2592. A large irregular Wound of the Cornea, into which the Iris protruded. From the same eye as that preserved in No. 2644. 2593. Left Eye, excised on account of injury produced by a piece of broken china. The wound, which extended across the whole breadth of the cornea, involved the ciliary region at its lower and outer part to the extent of two lines. Considerable protrusion of the iris followed. The cornea became rapidly soft and staphylomatous, vision being quite lost. On extirpation of the globe, its several structures were found to be thickened and firmly matted together by the products of inflammation. The retina was swollen and opaque. Sympathetic ophthalmia followed in the right eye nine weeks after the injury to the left. Vide No. 2651. SCLEROTIC. THICKENING. 2594. The two halves of a shrunken Eyeball, showing a remarkable thickening of the sclerotic in the posterior part. 2595. The two halves of a shrunken Eye, showing great thickening of the sclerotic and formation of bone in connection with the choroid. Vide Nos. 2648, 2656. STAPHYLOMA. 2596. Right Eye, removed from a man, aged 35, on account of sympathetic irritation of the other eye. The eye, which is very large, especially in the antero-posterior diameter, shows a staphyloma of the cornea. There are numerous large equatorial staphylomata between the insertions of the recti muscles, and one or two also in the ciliary region. The cornea is quite opaque.—See Ophthalmic Ward Book, Male, vol. ii, p. 24'J. 2597. Numerous Staphylomatous Bulgings of the coats of an Eye. The sclerotic has been thinned between the recti muscles in those positions where the muscles do not maintain any pressure upon the eye. 2598. An Eye. On the outer and under aspect of the Globe at the equator is