452 DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. them is divided, and exhibits a firm fibrous texture, surrounded by a complete capsule of bone-like substance. Another of the tumours is attached to the fundus of the uterus and to an adjacent tumour, by only a very narrow pedicle. The substance of the uterus itself appears healthy ; its elongated cavity is laid open. xxxii. 4 2996. A Uterine Fibroid calcified en coq, and partially enucleated.—Described in Transactions of the Obstetrical Society, Edinburgh. Meeting, March 27, 1867. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 2997. A large, lobed, Fibrous Tumour, which was spontaneously expelled from a uterus. Its texture was softened, and soaked with fluid, as if through partial decomposition; and on its surface are numerous thin plates of bone-like substance, which seem to have been nearly separated by decomposition. xxxii. 50 2998. Portions of Substance like very hard Bone, in coral-like masses, which were deposited in a fibroid of the uterus. xxxii. 25 2999. Plates of Bone-like Substance separated from the Tumour last described, and dried. They have not the microscopic structure of bone, but appear formed by calcification of the fibrous tissue. xxxii. 51 The patient was 46 years old. She had observed the tumour for twenty years, but had borne during that time many children. For eight years, after the birth of her last child, her health had been very delicate, and she had a constant discharge of blood by the vagina. For many weeks prior to the discharge of the tumour, which was expelled with pains like those of labour, flakes of bone passed away such as are still attached to its surface. Her recovery, after the expulsion of the tumoui*, was complete. Presented by Mr. Covey. 3000. A small Calcified Tumour probably a sub-peritoneal uterine fibroid, which was loose in the sac of the peritoneum. xvi. 118 Vide Nos. 3222, 3223, 3292, 3293 in Series L. FATTY TUMOUR IN A FIBROID. 3001. A pedunculated fibrous Tumour of the Uterus, with a small, well-defined, capsulated, fatty tumour imbedded in it near the centre of the mass. It was removed by operation from a woman aged 50. Its growth was not accom- panied by any symptom, but it suddenly protruded from the vagina during an action of the bowels. xxxii. 74 A Drawing of the specimen is preserved, No. 513. CANCER OF THE CERVIX UTERI. 3002. A Uterus, of which the cervix has been destroyed by ulceration. ^ The ulceration has also destroyed a considerable part of the vagina and the adjacent portion of the wall of the bladder. The ovaries are uniformly solid and hard. xxxii. 14 3003. A Uterus, of which the lower half has been destroyed by ulceration, probably of cancerous nature. The adjacent part of the vagina is superficially ulcerated. xxxii. 23 Presented by Dr. Conquest. 3004. Part of a Vagina and the Uterus. The cavity of the uterus has been laid open to show an irregularly ulcerated surface caused by a deposit of medullary carcinoma upon its inner aspect, extending along the cervix, but ceasing before it reaches the os externum. The lining membrane of the vagina retains a natural appearance. xxxii. 57 3005. A fungating Epithelioma springing from the cervix uteri, which was excised.