153 INJURIES OF JOINTS, DISLOCATIONS, ETC. portion of the head, and between the two muscles lies the anterior crural nerve. The femoral vessels lie to the inner side of the head of the bone. The hip had been injured by a fall from a haystack four years previously. Symptoms of disease of the hip appeared two years subsequently. He was confined to bed for some weeks before death occurred. REPARATIVE CHANGES AFTER REDUCTION. 1046. A left Hip-Joint; also the head of the Femur, and part of the acetabulum from the opposite joint, taken from a man who sustained a dislocation of the femur on the dorsum of the ilium, three years before death. The dislocation was soon reduced, and the only toaces of its effects which remain are, that there is a strong band or collar of ligamentous tissue around the base of the neck of the femur at its upper part, and that a slip of the ligamentum teres is attached to the notch of the acetabulum, external to the cotyloid ligament. But with this exception, the ligamentum teres presents no sign of having been The following specimens of Dislocation are presumed to have been due to elongation of the capsule, but were possibly in some instances congenital. 1047. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting elongation of the capsule and of the ligamentum teres. The ligamentum teres has separated through its whole length into three cords. The internal surface of the capsule is beset by small pedunculated filamentous growths. The elongation of the capsule has allowed the head of the femur to pass to a considerable distance from the acetabulum, which is contracted to a small triangular cavity. II. 54 An engraving of the specimen is published, with a paper by Mr. Stanley, " On Dislocations accompanied by Elongation of the Ligaments," in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxiv, PI. IV, fig. 2. London, 1841. Presented by W. J. Ward, Esq. 1048. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting dislocation of the head of the Femur with elonga- tion of the capsule. The capsule is entire, and measures, now that it is laid open, between four and five inches in length. The cavity of the acetabulum has almost disappeared, being both reduced in size and filled by fibrous tissue. The ligamentum teres is absent, and the head of the femur is small, and its articular surface irregular. The capsule around the neck of the femur presents a fringe of slender growths. m< £4 This specimen and the preceding closely resemble No. 1050. The specimen is figured in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxiv, PI. IV, fig. 1 London, 1841 : in illustration of a paper by Mr. Stanley, " On Dislocations, accompanied by Elongations of the Ligaments." 1049. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting dislocation of the head of the Femur on the dorsum of the ilium, which occurred a considerable time before death. On one side of the preparation is a part of the original capsule ; this has been exten- sively divided in front, to show the acetabulum, which is contracted into a narrow triangular cavity nearly filled by fibrous tissue. On the other side of the preparation, the head of the bone is shown, deformed, reduced in size, and surrounded by a thick membrane of tough fibrous tissue, which is smooth on its internal surface. This membrane, forming the capsule of the new joint is m part newly formed, and in part consists of the remains of the former capsule • it is extensively divided behind, to give a distinct view of the head of the bone' The cavity of the new capsule communicates with that of the old capsule below the neck of the femur, and their smooth internal linings are continuous. in. 31