DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE URINARY BLADDER. 3G7 2418. A Bladder, with a soft and shreddy villous tumour growing from the mucous membrane near the centre of its posterior wall. xxvu. 2 FIBROUS TUMOUR. 2419. A Bladder, laid open by a vertical incision through its anterior wall. A pedunculated growth is attached to its inner surface, stretching transversely across the fundus of the bladder, immediately behind the apertures of the ureters, which are much dilated. The mass is attached at either side, but free in the centre, and was so situated that it might lie forward over the urethral orifice, or be propelled in that direction when attempts were made to void the urine. The tumour, irregularly lobulated, consists of a fine filamentous structure scattered through a granular substance, and invested by a quantity of tessel- lated epithelium. The walls of the bladder are much thickened. At its upper surface the cavity of an abscess commences and extends to the umbilicus, but no communication can be traced between the two, although the urine continued to escape by the abscess up to the time of the child's death. The small papilla close to the vesical termination of the abscess is all that appears of the urachus. A bristle passed some way down it, but could not, without violence, be forced into the bladder. xxvu. 39 From a child who had suffered for eight weeks from extreme pain during micturition, presently followed by severe pain in the abdomen. A swelling formed about the umbilicus, softened, and was opened with a lancet, some healthy pus escaping. Urine began to dribble away from this opening, scarcely any escaping by the natural channel. The child, after lingering in a wretched state for some days, died. The case is described by Mr. Savory, in the Transactions of the Abernethian Society, Part I, vol. ii. EPITHELIAL, VILLOUS, AND MEDULLARY CANCER. 2420. A Bladder, the mucous membrane of which is covered with nodules and flattened plaques probably of epithelioma. At the fundus the whole thickness of the wall of the bladder is infiltrated by the morbid growth. . xxvu. 5 2421. A Bladder exhibiting several irregular papillomatous growths springing from its mucous membrane, probably epithelioma. xxvu. 6 2422. A Bladder having a soft cancerous growth springing from the trigone, and involving the third lobe of the prostate. The surface of the growth is ragged, appears villous, and was sloughy in the recent state. The bladder was distended and contained numerous blood clots. The tumour was found on microscopic examination to be a villous cancer. From a man, aged 69 years, who was admitted to the Hospital with the following history :— Four years ago he passed some blood with the urine for the first time ; and the urine continued to contain blood for a few weeks. Since then he has had about six attacks of heematuria, with intermissions lasting sometimes as long as six months. The present attack of hsematuria dates from about four months ago, and is the longest and most severe he has had. The passage of urine was preceded by several stringy clots, which obstructed the flow. The urine was of a dark blood colour. No evidence of the disease was obtained by the use of the sound or by microscopic examination of the urine. The autopsy revealed numerous soft secondary deposits in the liver, and some of the bones were softened.—See Mark Ward Book vol ix p. 57. ' ' 2423. A Bladder, exhibiting a general thickening of its coats, and a large mass of soft medullary substance attached to the mucous membrane of its posterior wall, just above the prostate gland. A sac, as large as the bladder itself, and filled by a similar growth, communicates with the lower and posterior part of the bladder. This sac was situated between the muscular coat of the bladder and the peritoneum covering its posterior wall; one of the ureters terminates in it by an opening through which a quill is passed. A passage has been formed through the prostate gland by a silver catheter. xxvu. 15 The man from whom this specimen was taken had difficulty in passing urine, and occasional