DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 237 artery is tlie site of an aneurism about as large as a walnut, nearly filled "will) laminated fibrin, which is perforated by a central canal; about one mch and a half beyond the aneurism, the axillary artery is completely obstructed at its commencement by an embolon. There is also an embolon m the left femoral artery near the origin of the profunda. From a woman, aged 39 years. Although the respective dates of the aneurism of the subcla- vian and the embolon in the axillary artery cannot with certainty be fixed, it seems probable that the latter was of later date than the former, and was a chief cause of the consolidation of the aneurism. To this consolidation the aortic obstruction also probably contributed largely. Symptoms of embolism of the femoral artery appeared about three weeks before death, whilst the patient lay in bed in the Hospital. She had been admitted some months previously with the following history:—Three weeks before, whilst doing heavy work, she was seized with a violent pain in the right arm, followed by loss of power. A swelling soon afterwards appeared in the neck. The swelling diminished some time before death.—See Lucas Ward Boole, vol. ii, p. 423 ; and Pathological Society Transactions, vol. xxiv, p. 67. 1550. Aneurism of a branch of the superior Mesenteric Artery. The aneurism is about the size of a pigeon's egg, and its cavity is nearly filled by laminated fibrin. Several branches are given off from it. From a man, aged 34 years, who died with chronic endo-carditis and dilatation of the heart. Vide Nos. 1486, 1508. DEPOSIT OF BLOOD-CLOT OR LAMINATED FIBRIN FROM LIGATURE OF, OR PRESSURE ON, THE ARTERY SUPPLYING- THE ANEURISMAL SAC. 1551. A large Aneurism of the left Femoral Artery for which the external iliac artery was tied. The parts preserved are the left internal and external iliac and femoral arteries; portions of the corresponding veins and of the anterior crural nerve. The external iliac artery has been tied exactly two inches above the crural arch. The tissues about that point have not been disturbed. The artery is laid open above and below the ligature: a firm clot fills the canal for one inch and three-quarters above, and for three-quarters of an inch below it. Three branches of the ordinary size arise from the last inch of this vessel. There was nothing abnormal in the common or internal iliac arteries. The branches of the latter were not enlarged. The tumour, of an irregularly oval shape, involves the first part of the femoral artery for three inches, commencing abruptly at the crural arch, and ending in a similar manner three-quarters of an inch below the origin of the profunda. Its greatest circumference is eleven and a quarter inches, and its diameter four and a half inches. The section shows that the sac is composed of the arterial tunics and the sheath of the vessel. The latter has been in part removed from behind to expose the vein. On the surface of the section the several structures forming the sac have been raised, and their continuity with the healthy arterial tissues demonstrated. The external coat and the sheath are thickeued ; the internal coats much attenuated. The section shows at the circumference laminated pale fibrin closely adherent to the lining membrane of the sac. B.ecent clots, now hardened by spirit, form the rest of the contents. The profunda artery arises from nearly the lowest part of the aneurism : it is of the usual size and pervious. The small superficial vessels, usually given from the first part of the femoral artery, are absent: this is probably explained by the occurrence of a third branch from the external iliac. The femoral vein, behind the tumour, is laid open : it is plugged at the lower part. The saphena vein is thickened but pervious. The anterior crural nerve is spread out on the wall of the sac. The specimen was taken from an intemperate sailor, aged 32 years. -His tissues were loaded with fat. A large pulsating tumour had existed in the groin'for eighteen months. At the