, ^PLJEURA, BRONCHIAL TUBES, AND LUNGS. \< Froin a patient who died of a disease independent of this condition of his lungs, and from whom the specimen of partially healed tubercular ulceration of the large intestine, Series XVIII, No. 2016, was taken. 1727. A Tubercular Cavity in the Lung, at the base of which is a small blood- vessel. An aperture exists in the upper wall of the vessel, and to the margin of this a hollow cylindrical clot, which projects into the cavity, is attached. xiv. 76 From a man who died suddenly from very copious haemorrhage. A drawing of this specimen is preserved, No. 101. TUMOURS OF THE LUNGS. SPINDLE-CELL SARCOMA. 1728. Tumours, having the characters of recurrent fibroid growths, occupying portions of the lungs. They commence in the tissue dividing adjacent lobules, and extend by compressing the neighbouring air-cells. They were secondary to a similar growth involving the uterus. xiv. 75 The case is fully related by Mr. Callender in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. ix, p. 327. EPITHELIAL CANCER (Secondary). 1729. Portions of Lung, containing masses of Epithelial Cancer. In the lower por- tion au oval mass of the morbid growth, two inches in diameter, is imbedded in the lung, at its root, and a portion projects from it into one of the large bronchi. It is doubtful whether this mass is seated in the lung itself, or in a cluster of bronchial glands. In the upper specimen a mass of large size occupies the very substance of the lung, immediately beneath the pleura. In the interior of this mass is a large cavity, which was tilled with pus and softened cancei-ous matter, and has irregular broken walls formed by the less softened substance. The boundaries of the cancerous growths are well-defined, and the substance of the lungs in which they are imbedded appears healthy. They present a nearly white friable basis substance, soft but dry, marbled with lines and dots of black pigment matter, and (in the recent state) parts of them were suffused with pale yellowish and pinkish hues. In microscopic structure they presented the usual appearances of epithelial cancer, with abundant scale-like, wrinkled, nucleated cells, and epithelial laminated capsules. Xiv. 61 The patient was an old man, part of whose penis was removed, on account of cancer, eighteen months before death. The diseaso returned in the inguinal glands, and presented in them the same characters as it here shows in the lungs. Portions of the glands are preserved in Series XXIV, No. 2287. There were altogether about twenty cancerous masses. Most of them were in the right lung. Many were softened at their centres, or had cavities therein, like the largest here shown. TUMOURS OF UNCERTAIN NATURE. 1730. Portion of a Lung, in which are several lai^ge, round, and lobulated masses of a soft, brown, medullary substance. Most of these are situated near, or project from, the surface of the lung. The substance of the lung adjacent to them appears healthy. XIV 24 1731. A similar specimen. XIV 25 1732. A similar specimen. Xlv> 26 1733. Portion of a Lung, exhibiting medullary substance infiltrated in laro-e portions of its tissue. XIV ^3 1734. The Eight Lung of a child, with several large masses of a soft medullary substance, deposited in both its lobes. Xlv 21 From the same child as No. 2499, in Series XXX, and No. 2290, Series XXIV. 1735. Two portions of a Lung, in each of which there arc round masses of a