DISEASES OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. 472 The disease occurred in a woman, aged 66 years, and had existed for twelve years, durir.g the the last six months of which it had rapidly increased from the size of a fist to that of a child's head. 3154. A Mammary Gland, with two tumours imbedded in it, which were removed by operation. Each tumour is circumscribed and surrounded by a distinct capsule of cellular tissue. The substance of each tumour appears to consist of separate portions loosely connected by cellular tissue, which in the recent state resembled the lobules of the pancreas. The arrangement of the lobules indicates that they are growths (such as are in Nos. 3148 and 3150) which have arisen from the walls of numerous cysts, and have now filled thair cavities, become firm, and coalesced with the cyst-walls so as to form a nearly solid mass. xxxiv. 11 3155. Section of a woman's Breast, and of a Tumour seven pounds in weight, of which a part protruded through the ulcerated skin. The lower part of the tumour presents a section of a large cyst, with thick soft succulent walls, which contained a pale yellowish fluid. Above this, the substance of the tumour is soft, elastic, somewhat glistening and jelly-like : the greater part of it protruded through the skin in the form of a deeply lobed and very vascular mass, the surface of which was covered by healthy-looking granulations, and appeared to be in parts skinned over. The appearance of the tumour had been altered by a ligature tied round the base of the protruded part some time before it was removed; it is from this cause that the margins of the protrusion appear to overhang so far the surface of the surrounding integuments. xxxiv. 19 The tumour is a mixed round and spindle-cell scarcoma. A drawing of the tumour is preserved, No. 522. 3156. Section of a Tumour, with part of the integuments, removed from the same patient as the specimen last described. The characters of the tumour are very like those of the more solid portions of the preceding, pale yellowish, soft, glistening, and almost gelatinous. xxxiv. 20 The patient, at the time of the second operation, was 37 years old. The tumour first removed had been growing, with very little pain, for thirteen years, and did not interfere with lactation. When, at length, it grew very large, the skin over it became livid and pointed. It was opened, and a large quantity of coffee-coloured fluid was discharged, shortly after which a solid vascular growth protruded from the opening. This growth soon attained a large size, and was cut off; it again increased, and a ligature was placed round its base, which produced so much pain that the patient came to the Hospital, and the whole mass, with nearly all the mammary gland, was removed. The patient remained well for nearly two years, when the tumour. No. 3156, appeared, and increased rapidly. She recovered, and was hi good health shortly after its removal. FIBEO-ADENOMA (Chronic Mammary Tumour, Mammary Glandular Tumour, &C). 3157. A small Fibro-Adenoma of the Breast; it was encapsuled, and the section presents an appearance of lobulation. Microscopic Examination.—The tumour consists of fibrous tissue, containing tubules of gland tissue. Eemoved from a woman, aged 31; she first noticed the lump nine months before its removal. —See Sittoell Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 62. Microscopic specimens are preserved, No. 141. 3158. A Fibro-Adenoma, very distinctly lobulated ; removed from the right breast of a girl, aged 18 years. It was discovered six months before the operation. Microscopically it consists of new-formed gland tissue imbedded in fibrous, and loose mucous tissue.—See microscopic sections, No. 142 ; and a drawing A. 39. 3159. A small Tumour removed from the Breast. It is of oval form, nodulated on its surface, and invested by cellular tissue forming a distinct capsule. It is composed of a soft, elastic, semi-transparent, glistening substance, traversed by