486 GENERAL PATHOLOGY. STTPPTJRATION. 3230. Portion of a Liver, exhibiting a small Abscess near its snrface. The boundary of the abscess is formed by the irregularly broken substance of the liver. xvm- 9 3231. A small Abscess Cavity on the superior surface of the Liver of a child. —See Post Mortem Book, vol. vii, p. 226. 3232. The Wall, consisting of the pyogenic membrane, of a large circumscribed Abscess, removed from one of the middle lobes of a cerebrum. Its internal surface is smooth, and lined by lymph, of which some has been turned off m a layer; its external surface is covered by shreds and flocculi from the adjacent cerebral substance ; its walls are moderately tough and about half a line m thickness. VI- 60 The patient was a middle-aged man, and had had only some slight and obscure signs of disease of the brain. ULCERATION. 3233. An Ulcer of the integuments of the Leg, the base of which is adherent to the surface of the bone. 3234. Portion of an Ileum, exhibiting two ulcers of the mucous membrane. Both the ulcers extend completely round the intestine, and their margins are irregular and shreddy. XVI* ^ MORTIFICATION : DEATH OF PARTS OF THE BODY. 3235. A portion of Skin that sloughed after injury, and was separated by ulceration of the adjacent tissues. XI- 35 It illustrates the death of parts as the direct effect of mechanical force. A girl was bitten by another on the back of her hand. The piece of skin included between the teeth was not cut or apparently bruised 5 it did not become inflamed, but with the blood coagulated in its vessels, it became, in about forty-eight hours, brown and dry, and was then gradually separated. 3236 The Feet of a girl, which mortified and sloughed off after exposure to cold. appendix. 8 The patient, 19 years old, slept in the street during a cold night. In the morning her feet were found frost-bitten, and were put into warm water. No operation except the sawing through the bones was necessary for their removal. 3237. The Feet of a girl, aged 7 years, which mortified after typhus fever. 3238. The Toes of the left foot of a Negro, aged 22 years, which separated after dry gangrene. While on board ship in very cold weather, he noticed that the left foot became swollen and the toes painful. On admission to the Hospital shortly after, the toes were found to be in a state of dry gangrene. They separated during a period ranging from six weeks to five months.—See Pitcairn Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 242. A drawing of the specimen is preserved, No. 536. TUBERCLE. 3239. Portion of the Peritoneal and Muscular Coats of a Jejunum, dried after the minute injection of the blood-vessels. Numerous small, oval, flattened masses of yellowish tubercle are scattered in the subperitoneal tissue. xxxv. 27