121 INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). dant external deposits of new bone, in which are two apertures, such as pro- bably led to portions of dead bone. The fibula, in adaptation to the altered form of the tibia, to which also it is united by two bridges of new bone, is bent and Battened as in rickets. The lower end of the tibia is united by bone to the astragalus and to the external malleolus. c- 2 (In Case H.) FAILURE OF THE PROCESS OF OSSEOUS UNION. UNION BY FIBROUS TISSUE. 836. Portion of a Scapula exhibiting a fracture through the Acromion, which has been united by fibrous tissue. HI- 36 837. A Radius and Ulna, which were fractured a considerable time before death. The overlapping ends of the bones are united by thick tough layers of fibrous tissue. They have been in part separated, to show the mode of their union. in. 41 838. Sections of the upper part of a Femur, in which a vertical intra-capsular fracture occurred. The portion of the neck, which was connected with the shaft, is nearly absorbed ; the portion connected with the head remains, and its lower margin rests, as on a ledge, on the trochanter minor and the cancellous tissue within it. The fractured surfaces are united by a thick layer of tough fibrous tissue, permitting a slight degree of motion between them. ill. 119 839. Sections of the upper part of a Femur fractured almost vertically through the neck, at the base of the head and entirely within the capsule. The neck and the upper part of the shaft have been drawn a little upwards, and the lower part of the fractured surface and margin of the neck, has been driven tightly into the cancellous tissue of the head. In this position, without any lateral displacement, and without any absorption of the neck of the femur, the frac- tured surfaces have been united by a thin layer of tough fibrous tissue, which permitted them to be slightly moved on one another. The fibrous covering of the neck appears to have been torn across and re-united in front, but to have remained entire behind. All the textures adjacent to the fracture are healthy, but the walls of the bone are thin, and its cancellous tissue is atrophied and full of soft fat. in. 110 The patient was a very old woman. The fracture occurred about threo months before death. 840. Portion of a Femur, in which an intra-capsular fracture of the neck occurred many years before death. The neck of the bone is absorbed: both the fractured surfaces are thinly covered by fibrous tissue, and that of the head has become firmly united to the lower part of the thickened capsule, near its attachment to the head, by a broad band of fibrous tissue. ni. 49 841. Section of a Patella, which has been fractured transversely. There is no bony union ; and no production of new bone. The surfaces of the fracture have undergone but little change. In consequence of the insertion of the extensor tendon, and ligamentum patellae chiefly into the free or external surface of the bone, the fragments have been drawn asunder to a greater extent externally than at their articular surface, so that a wedge-shaped interval exists which in front measures one inch and a-half, towards the joint surface only six-tenths of an inch. Ligamentous material has been produced from the whole of both fractured surfaces : but in front this has undergone stretching, while towards the joint surface it constitutes a strong, thick, and wide conncctino- band between the fragments.