DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COVERINGS, AND THE SPERMATIC CORD. 417 fibroid tissue was looser, and contained numerous small round cells, while at the junction of the vascular and non-vascular structures the round cells were very abundant and enclosed in the meshes of a loose reticulum of connective tissue. The inter-nodular structure was composed of a loose fibrous tissue, very vascular, and enclosing at wide intervals tubes containing caseous material, which appeared to be contracted seminiferous tubes. From a man, aged 35 years. Four years before his admission to the Hospital the testicle became swollen, but subsequently regained its normal size : two years later it again became swollen, gradually increasing in size, and finally an ulcer formed, which exposed the testicle. There was no conclusive evidence of syphilis, but ho appeared to have had a node on the sternum.—See Henri/ Ward Book, toI. vi, p. 270. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 119. 2772. Sections of a Testicle. The organ is but little altered either in shape or size. Its external surface is uniformly smooth, firm, and inelastic to the touch. The epididymis is scarcely, if at all, affected. The parenchyma of the body of the testicle has been completely replaced by a dense, tough, yellowish-white material, like old inflammatory lymph. This under the microscope is seen to consist of fine granules and of oil-globules of various sizes, with no trace of fibrillation, and only faint vestiges here and there of cell-formation. The specimen was taken from the body of a middle-aged man brought to the Hospital for dissection. No history of the case could be obtained ; but numerous scars, like those the result of syphilitic ulceration, were seen on various parts of the body. The opposite testis was similarly affected, but to a somewhat less extent. TUBERCULAR DISEASE OP THE TESTICLE AND EPIDIDYMIS. 2773. Two Testicles. One of them is enlarged to about twice its natural size; and pale yellow, soft caseous matter is almost uniformly diffused through its substance, leaving scarcely any intervening portions of the glandular tissue. In the other testicle are several distinct and circumscribed deposits of caseous matter at its lower part, and in the epididymis. xxvili. 32 From a man, 30 years old. The enlargement of the testicle had been observed many years. He died with tubercular disease of the prostate, lungs, and other organs. 2774. Sections of a Testicle, enlarged, indurated, and in many parts infiltrated with caseous matter. The part which is not filled by caseous matter is white and tough, like the tissue of a cicatrix. The caseous matter is in circumscribed masses of irregular shape, compact, and of a pale yellowish-white colour, which project above the surface of the substance in which they are deposited. Above the testicle there is a mass of similar indurated tissue with caseous deposit, situated either in the spermatic cord or in the upper part of the epididymis. x.wiii. 20 The patient was a gentleman, 42 years old. The testicle had been enlarging for seven years. Shortly before its removal the disease appeared to extend rapidly up the spermatic cord and some enlargement was observed in the opposite epididymis. 2775. Two Testicles enlarged, and having circumscribed deposits of caseous matter in their interior, and in that of each epididymis. xxvni. 38 2776. A Testicle affected with Tubercular Disease. The organ is uniformly en- larged, and the posterior portion is occupied by a uniform yellowish substance • but towards the anterior part the tissue of the testicle can be discerned studded with yellow spots of caseous material. The epididymis is enlarged, and also contains caseous matter. From a man, aged 21 years. Six weeks before admission to the Hospital he found the testicle to be increasing in size, and he suffered some pain in it. In a fortnight the organ reached its present size. The enlargement was uniform, firm, and elastic. Before removal the disease was thought to be malignant. The nature of the disease was verified bv micro- scopic examination.—See Barker Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 92. 2 E