DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. 385 1i1 mour a 1 iout the size of a hazel nut is seen. It is adherent to the outer surface of the theca, hut does not involve the arachnoid. The tumour was composed almost entirely of cells like those found in specimens of actively growing soft cancer. The corresponding portion of the cord was softened. The man had suffered for eight or nine months from pain in the neck and shoulders, which was attributed to rheumatism. For the last four or five months an alteration in his gait had been observed. The shoulders were elevated, and the neck shortened. For two months he had been unable to wear a collar. One month before his death the limbs and trunk became paralysed. The power of the left arm and leg first failed, and in the course of a few days the paralysis was complete. Urine and fajces passed involuntarily. The immediate cause of death was paralysis of the respiratory muscles. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE SPINAL COED. DILATATION OF CENTRAL, CANAL. 2542. A portion of a Spinal Cord, of which the central canal is so extremely- dilated that the cord is a mere tube of nerve substance. The dilatation was greatest in the cervical region, and gradually diminished, not extending to the lumbar enlargement. The ventricles of the brain were dilated, and contained a large quantity of clear fluid. The membranes of the cord were normal. From a woman, aged 22 years. On her admission to the Hospital there was complete loss of power ami sensation of the left arm, and partial loss of power and sensation of the right arm. There was also partial paralysis of both sides of the face ; she could only speak in an under tone. The lower extremities were not affected. The affection of the left arm had existed two years, and of the right arm six months. She died soon after her admission apparently in an epileptic fit.—See Hope Ward Booh, vol. viii, p. 291, and Post Mortem Book, vol. viii, p. 123. EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION (MYELITIS). 2543. Lower half of a Spinal Cord, the whole substance of which is softened It is surrounded hy a layer of lymph deposited in the tissue of the pia mater. This layer is in parts nearly a quarter of an inch thick; the lymph had a greenish gelatinous aspect, hut is now pale, contracted, and wrinkled. At ono part, the cord is crossed by a narrow band of firm, yellow substance, and its whole natural structui'e here seems to be destroyed. vn. 8 The patient was 12 years old. Nearly six months before death he began to have signs of paralysis of the lower extremities ; and these, in the following five weeks, almost imperceptibly increased, till he had complete loss of sensation and motion in the parts below the umbilicus witli retention of urine and incontinence of faeces. After this time, signs of acute inflamma- tion of the membranes of the spinal cord and of the base of the bruin ensued, from which as well as from his previous symptoms, he for a time partially recovered ; but they returned' and he died with sloughing over the sacrum. Besides the disease shown in the preparation the pia mater at the base of the brain was infiltrated with lymph and pus. EFFECTS OF PRESSURE FROM VARIOUS CAUSES. a.—From Disease of the Vericbrce. 2544. Part of a Spinal Cord from the dorsal region. A portion of it, about half an inch in length, is soft, and reduced to less than half its natural size. Vit. 7 From a case of paraplegia, with angular curvature of the spine, in a lad, 18 years old Opposite the contracted part of the cord a short process of bone projected from the annle of the curvature into the spinal canal. The portion of spine is preserved, Scries V No 1098 Vide No. 1102 in Series V. 1 2 c