URINARY CALCULI. 000 214. Two lobed Calculi from a Kidney. Phosphate of Lime, with a large pro- portion of animal matter. Analysis by Dr. Hue. 215. Two large branched Calculi from the Kidneys. Phosphate of Lime with some Carbonate of Lime and a small quantity of Urate of Ammonia. 216. A similar Calculus, from a Kidney. 217. A large lobed and branched Calculus from a Kidney. Fusible Calculus coated by crystals of the Triple Phosphate. 218. Three similar Calculi from a Kidney. Phosphate of Lime, and a small portion of the Fusible Calculus. Analysis by Dr. Hue. CALCULI FROM THE PROSTATE GLAND. 219. Numerous small round Calculi from the Prostate Gland, composed of Phosphate of Lime. Analysis by Dr. Hue. CALCULI FROM FISTULAS, OR CYSTS, COMMUNICATING WITH THE BLADDER OR URETHRA. 220. Section of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia; surrounding portion, Oxalate of Lime, nearly pure; remainder, Uric Acid with a little Oxalate of Lime. Extracted by Mr. Stanley from a cyst communicating with the urethra near the bladder of a boy 6 years old. 221. Part of 146 Calculi, removed from a sac connected with the middle of the spongy portion of the urethra. It was not certain whether the sac was formed by the urethra dilated behind the stricture which existed immediately in front of it; or was formed, after ulceration of the urethra, in the tissues around it. They are composed of Fusible Calculus with thin layers of Urate of Ammonia intermixed. Operation by Mr. Vincent. The patient was a man, 23 years old. He had been for ten years subject to incontinence of urine, the consequence of a kick, by wbich the urethra was ruptured or otherwise injured. He was in the habit of wearing a yoke to compress the anterior part of the urethra. Six years before the removal of the calculi he had bleeding from the urethra for several days, and then first perceived the swelling in the perineum, which from that time gradually increased with the increase of the calculi. The rest of the calculi are in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. 222. A large Oval Calculus. Phosphate of Lime with Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia. Extracted by Mr. Stanley from a cyst which communicated with a fistulous passage leading from the bladder to the perineum. 223. A Calculus taken from a Fistula remaining after the lateral operation of