DISEASES OF BONES. i;; bone the ulceration presents the more diffuse, rough, jagged form which belongs to that occurring in acute inflammation and suppuration on the surface of a bone. A- 66 (In Case F.) 315. A Skull-Cap, in which a large portion of the outer table of the frontal bone is rough, grey, porous, and tuberculated, presenting the same change as has preceded the ulceration in many of the specimens just described. In this case ulceration has commenced in only two or three points about the middle of the diseased surface. The corresponding portion of the inner table is porous, as if it had been more than naturally vascular, but is not otherwise diseased. A. 67 (In Case P.) 316. A Skull-Cap, with general thickening and induration of the frontal bone. Its outer table, like that of the preceding specimen, is slightly tuberculntecl, and in one situation ulcerated ; and all the adjacent parts appear to have been unnaturally vascular. A. 69 (In Case F.) Annular Ulceration. 317. A Skull-Cap, in which there are several distinct syphilitic ulcers. The ulcers are nearly circular, and affect corresponding parts of both tables. Some of them present an annular form, a groove of ulceration extending round a central portion of diseased bone which is gradually removed as the groove widens towards the centre. a. 109 (In Case F.) 318. A Skull-Cap, exhibiting several distinct roundish ulcers, some of which have penetrated both its tables. They commenced in the outer table and pre- sent traces of the same annular primary form as those in No. 320. A. 70 (In Case F.) 319. A Skull, on the frontal and left parietal bones of which are several patches of caries, probably syphilitic; two of these over the orbits are symmetrically placed. A large aperture in the skull in the line of the coronal suture has been produced by the disease. The bones of the skull-cap are generally abnormally thickened and vascular. (In Case F.) 320. A Skull-Cap, exhibiting extensive syphilitic ulceration of its outer table. The ulcers are distinct, large, and round. Some of them, especially one on the frontal bone, show that they commenced in an annular form, an ulcerated groove forming round a portion of diseased bone, which portion was subse- quently removed by the widening of the groove. The inner table is very vascular and less extensively ulcerated. Parts of the outer table are tuber- culated. A 63 (In Case F.) OTHER SPECIMENS OE CARIES. 321. A Skull-Cap, exhibiting extensive superficial ulceration of the outer table probably the result of syphilis. ^ (In Case F.) 322. A Skull-Cap, exhibiting extensive ulceration of the outer table, and ulcera tion to a less extent of the inner table. The parts remaining between the ulcers have a tuberculated surface. (In Case F.) ■ A> 01