364 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE URINARY BLADDER. communicating with the posterior and lateral parts of its cavity. Within two of these cysts calculi are lodged. Fifteen calculi were found in the cavity of the bladder: these—which are arranged by the sides of the sections—appear to be composed of uric acid; they weigh from 12 to 880 grains each; their total weight amounts to 2,703 grains. xxvii. 17 2400. A Bladder and Prostate Gland. The lateral lobes of the prostate are enlarged, and a small round tumour is formed by the projection of the third lobe into the bladder immediately behind the orifice of the urethra. The muscular coat of the bladder is much hypertrophied ; and its mucous mem- brane is thickened and indurated. At the upper part of the bladder is a small pouch communicating with its cavity by a narrow orifice, and apparently formed by a protrusion of the mucous membrane between the muscular fibres. xxvii. 24 2401. A Bladder, behind which is a sac nearly as large as itself. The sac, which probably had its origin in the protrusion of the mucous membrane of the bladder between its muscular fibres, communicates with the cavity of the bladder by a small round opening just above the orifice of the right ureter. The muscular coat of the bladder is much thickened ; its mucous membrane is healthy, but depressed in small pits between the muscular fibres. Above the communication of the sac with the bladder is an orifice, which was made by a trocar introduced from the rectum, for the relief of retention of urine. There is a smaller sac communicating with the bladder above the termination of the left ureter. xxvii. 10 2402. A Bladder and part of the Urethra, laid open on their anterior aspect. The muscular wall of the former is hypertrophied. Its mucous membrane is thick and coarsely rugous. On the right side, just above the orifice of the ureter, a narrow, funnel-shaped opening leads to a large pouch, lined by mucous membrane, but devoid of muscular tissue. The commencement of the membranous urethra is discoloured, and exhibits two apertures: one, to the left, terminates in a blind extremity; the other, passing behind the urethra, re-enters its canal at the beginning of its prostatic portion, where the latter is somewhat narrowed. xxvii. 41 From the body of a man who had suffered from stricture of the urethra. 2403. The Bladder of an old man, who had long suffered with stricture of the Urethra. Its muscular coat is thick, but weak and flaccid, and its mucous membrane is depressed in pits between the muscular fasciculi. On the right side are two large thick-walled sacs, each between three and four inches in diameter, communicating with the bladder by two small round apertures, and separated from each other by a partition formed by the union of their adjacent walls. They appear to have been formed by portions of the mucous membrane protruded, like hernias, between fasciculi of the muscular coat, and growing and thickening as they were gradually dilated. xxvii. 33 Presented by J. Gt. Johnson, Esq. 2404. A Bladder with a portion of the Urethra, from a man, aged 73 years, on whom the operation of lithotrity had been performed, and who died twelve days after the last crushing. The bladder, which is somewhat thickened, presents the usual appearances of acute ulcerative cystitis. A few fragments of calculous matter were found loose in the cavity, but the greater portions were found im- pacted in two small pouches, each of about the size and shape of a cob-nut. The fragments had evidently become impacted after the operation. The pouches are in the more dependent part of the bladder, near the orifices of the ureters,