DISEASES OF BONES. 28 214. A Femur, in which it is probable that there has been Necrosis of a portion of the inner wall and cancellous tissue of the lower part of the shaft. There is a large cavity in this part, and by its side many smaller ones, around which the wall of the bone is thickened, porous, covered by new bone, and penetrated by an oval aperture. A- (In Case F.) 215. The corresponding ends of a Femur and Tibia. In a heavy fall, the femur was fractured about three inches above the condyles. The fragments are firmly united ; but the upper one lies in front of the lower, overlapping it. In con- sequence of the same injury, necrosis ensued in a small portion of the tibia, including part of its articular surface. The sequestrum, when the limb was amputated many years after the injury, was found loose within a large cavity m the head of the tibia; this cavity opens through the anterior wall by the side of the tubercle of the tibia, and more widely into the knee-joint. The articular surfaces of both femur and tibia are ulcerated; and in the inner condyle of the femur, there is a deep cavity like that of an abscess, corresponding with the cavity in which the sequestrum lies in the head of the tibia. A. 114 (In Case F.) Presented by Thomas Sympson, Esq. 216. Sections of the upper part of a Tibia, in which portions of the cancellous tissue have suffered necrosis and are partially separated. Lymph and pus are diffused upon and within the dead portions of bone ; the medullary canal contains them alone, the rest of its osseous and fatty tissue being removed. The walls of the tibia are thickened and penetrated by several apertures into the medullary tube. The disease is limited to the shaft of the tibia. I. 268 From an old man in whom the disease had existed more tban twenty years. 217. The head of a Tibia divided vertically. Nearly in its centre, as seen in the upper and lower sections, is an irregular cavity lined by a soft, pulpy membrane. In the upper half of the cavity there is a portion of necrosed bone, which, during life, was loose and surrounded by discoloured and foetid pus. A tortuous sinus communicates with the surface of the limb. The head of the tibia is enlarged in every direction, and its cancellous tissue is dense and indurated. L ^05 This preparation was obtained after amputation through the thigh. The operation had become necessary in consequence of the rapid failing of the health of the patient under the long- continued irritation resulting from the disease. 218. Sections of a Tibia, in which a portion of the cancellous tissue of the head died and was separated: it lay loose within a large cavity in the head of the bone, which is lined by soft vascular tissue, and the opposite walls of which are shown in the two sections. The periosteum, thickened and vascular, has been partially reflected, to show the rough external surface formed by the accumulation of new bone on the outer surface of the head of the tibia. i. 4 219. Sections of a Tibia in which there has been Necrosis of a portion of the cancellous texture near its head. A portion of the dead bone was probably removed through the smooth oval aperture in the adjacent thickened wall; the rest of it is not completely separated, but a deep groove bounds it. k. 102 (In Case F.) 220. A Foot which was removed by Symes' amputation. Suspended is the upper part of the astragalus, which had necrosed and separated from its connections : its head is still covered by cartilage.