DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 373 TUMOURS (and Allied Morbid Growths). OSSEOUS OR BONE-LIKE GROWTHS IN THE CEREBRAL MEMBRANES. 2459. Portion of Dura Mater, exhibiting a mass of bone-like substance, oi low conical form, attached to the side of the falx cerebri. • The patient, 28 years old, had from boyhood been subject to severe head-aches. A fortmg before he died he had an acute head-ache, aggravated in paroxysms, with vomiting ana 8 pulse, which in a few days were succeeded by delirium and fever, and then by partial ■ P««y"* and insensibility. Copious effusions of serum and lymph were found, after death, m uio cerebral membranes and ventricles. Presented by Herbert Evans, Esq. 2460. Spicula of Bone-like Substance, arising from the inner surface of the dura mater. From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2461. The corresponding portion of the Dura Mater of the man from whom Specimen 878 was taken. The greater part of it is considerably thickened, and in one spot there is an oval bone-like plate. 2462. Three flat portions of bone-like Substance, from the Falx Cerebri of a man who had been subject to epilepsy. VL 5i> 2463. Portion of Dura Mater, with large plates of bone-like substance in the Falx Cerebri, and some smaller ones in its neighbourhood. vi. 54 From a man who was subject to epilepsy. 2464. Portion of a Dura Mater, of which a large portion on each side of the falx cerebri is lined by a thin uniform layer of bone-like substance. vi. 35 Vide No. 3260, Series L. FIBROUS TUMOURS. 2465. Portion of a Skull, with the Dura Mater, exhibiting the growth of a small, oval, firm, fibrous tumour from the internal surface of the dura mater. vi. 16 2466. A Fibrous Tumour attached by a pedicle to the front portion of the Dura Mater. It lay in a depression on the upper surface of the left cerebral hemisphere. There was no history of cerebral symptoms. MELANOTIC TUMOUR. 2467. Portion of Dura Mater, in the texture of which there is a deposit of melanotic matter, near the superior longitudinal sinus. VI. 55 From the same patient as Nos. 473, 474, and 475 in Series I, and No. 3315, Series L. CANCER. 2468. Portion of a Skull, with the Dura Mater, exhibiting the growth of small flat, fleshy tumours from both the surfaces of the latter. The tumours arising from the external surface of the dura mater have caused the absorption of the bone in some situations, so that they appear on the outside of the skull. The skull is considerably thickened, and the diploe appears consolidated. vi. 8 The tumours have the microscopic characters of Scirrhous Cancer. A microscopic section is preserved, No. 98. TUMOURS OF UNCERTAIN NATURE. 2469. Part of a left Temporal Bone, with a tumour, nearly two inches in diameter, closely connected with the dura mater over the anterior surface of