121) INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). depression, both on the vertex and base of the skull, the bone is extremely thickened and somewhat indurated. The history is unknown. (In Case H.) 885. Section of a Skull-Cap, exhibiting a comminuted circumscribed fracture of the outer and inner tables of one of the parietal bones. Many pieces of the inner table are depressed. I1L ^4 During life the outer table was raised by the elevator, and it was supposed that the instru- ment was acting upon the whole thickness of the skuJ], whereas the fragments of the inner table remained unmoved. 886. Section of a Skull-Cap, exhibiting a fracture extending in several directions through the anterior part of the parietal bones. In one situation there is a fracture of the outer, without any corresponding fracture of the inner, table. in. 83 887. A Skull-Cap, in which fracture with loss of bone was produced by the wheel of a cart passing over the head several years before death. The frontal and right parietal bones were broken into many pieces, and the sagittal and coronal sutures were separated. Several portions of bone, which were detached by the fracture, were removed, leaving numerous and considerable apertures in the skull; other detached portions are thinned by absorption, but their edges are re-united by osseous substance. Considerable thickening of the frontal bone has taken place in one situation contiguous to the fracture. No new bone appears to have been formed in the spaces left after the removal of the loose fragments. in. 63 888. Portion of a Skull, in which an extensive fracture of the adjacent parts of the occipital and parietal bones occurred four years before death. Some portions of bone, detached by the fracture, were removed at the time of the accident; other portions were left, and have been re-united by bone. There is also a close union by bone of two lines of fracture, extending outwards through the parietal bones. The margins of all the broken portions of bone have been smoothly rounded, and their exposed diploe is covered in by compact bone. in. 38 Vide Nos. 741, 744, and789. 889. The right Temporal Bone. A fracture passes from the upper part of the squamous portion just below the squamous suture, perpendicularly down through both the upper and lower walls of the external auditory meatus. It then extends through the petrous bone, passing across the tympanum, in front of the superior semicircular canal into the internal auditory meatus, and apparently traversing the base of the cochlea. The line of fracture then extends from the lower part of the internal auditory meatus into that portion of the foramen lacerum posterius which transmits the eighth pair of nerves. The anterior and posterior portions of the petrous bone are therefore completely severed at the level of the external and internal auditory meatuses. The membrana tympani has been exposed by the removal of the bone ; it is soft and much swollen ; there is a large perforation just below the processus gracilis. A rent appears to have passed vertically through the middle of the membrane, the upper part of which is now glued together by lymph. The tympanum and anterior mastoid cells have been laid open; lymph was found in both situations. The bones of the internal ear are not disturbed. A coloured injection, which was thrown into the external meatus by plugging the opening with a cork, passed without using the slightest force through the internal auditory meatus and escaped from within the sheath of the seventh pair of nerves. From a child, aged 13 months, who fell off a bed and struck its head against a mangle. K