DISEASES OF THE SUPRA-RENAL BODIES. 353 firm substance, in parts whitish, in parts of a dirty-brown colour, dotted here and there with small spots and streaks which are now white, but in the recent state had a tint of yellow. The capsule and all the surrounding nerves are imbedded in an unusually large amount of fibi-ous tissue, which matted together the plexuses. This fibrous thickening extended up the splanchnic and pneumo- gastric nerves, and became continuous with firm old adhesions, which surrounded the liver and spleen and bound the upper half of the omentum to the anterior abdominal wall. The right capsule was not quite so large, but in other respects similar to the left. From a woman, aged 31 years, who died under Dr. Tuckwell's care in the Radcliffe In- firmary, Oxford, with well-marked, general, and local symptoms of Addison's disease of the supra-renal capsules.—See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. vii. Dissected and presented by Dr. Tuckwell. 2324. Portions of the two Supra-renal Capsules of a man who died with exten- sive tubercular disease. They are laden with a pale, yellowish deposit, diffused equally through their entire substance. In one this deposit has in places dried u p and become calcified. The capsules were considerably enlarged. The skin retained a natural appearance. xxn. 21 For the history of this case, see St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xvi, p. 209. 2325. A Supra-renal Capsule, from an adult, enlarged, and containing a circum- scribed deposit of a yellow and firm, probably tubercular, substance. xxn. 17 A drawing is preserved, No. 302. 2326. A Supra-renal Capsule, from an adult, enlarged, and with nearly all traces of its natural structure lost in the deposit of a pale yellow substance like softened tubercle. XXII MORBID GROWTHS. 2327. A New-Growth in the Supra-renal Capsules. From the subiect from whom Specimen ho. 2318 was taken. XXII 25 2328. A left Supra-renal Capsule, partly converted into a mass of New-Growth • the right was natural. From the body of a man, aged 50 years. His symptoms during life were chiefly pain in the back and progressive cachexia. There was no pigmentation of the skin. The lumba >er ebri lumbar glands, left clavicle, mediastinal glands, lungs, liver and kidneys w^morTS° W aflected.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. ih,No. 180. "icineys were more or less 2329. Part of a Supra-renal Capsule, in the substance of which is a large mass of New-Growth. Numerous similar deposits were present in the liver and lungs. xxii. 22 2330. A Supra-renal Capsule, in which nearly the whole of the natural texture is replaced by a mass of firm medullary substance. xxn.19 The liver and other organs of the same patient were similarly diseased. 2 A