GENERAL PATHOLOGY. *»* ilium immediately under tl.e skin, but not connected with it. It presented the character of a painful subcutaneous tumour, being exquisitely sensitive to the slightest touch! When divided it had the aspect of a fibrous ^ consists of fibrous tissue. 3274. A firm Tumour, having the appearance and consistence of fibro-cartilage, which was removed from the right side of the floor of the mouth. It consisted microscopically of very dense well-formed fibrous tissue ; no trace of spindle- cells was observed. ; . + A f anma From a man, aged 48years. The tumour bad been growing for fourteen years, and for some time he had lost sensation in the lower lip. It was mistaken for a salivary calculus. Ine growth recurred soon after removal, and the patient died from the extension of the disease.— See Henry Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 20. 3275. A Tumour, removed from the back of a man, aged 56 years, where it had been growing for twenty-five years. The greater portion of its substance is composed of fibrous tissue ; but it was very vascular and contained numerous large and freely communicating blood-vessels. When recent its section presented a reddish colour. 3276. A lobulated, turgid-looking, painless Tumour, about three and a half inches long, involving the skin of the front of the thigh. The section is soft, translu- cent,' and homogeneous. The under surface of the growth is also lobulated and distinctly separated from the subcutaneous tissue, the tumour apparently origi- nating in the corium. Microscopically it consisted of loose reticular connective tissue, generally well developed, but in places containing many nuclei. The tumour was removed from the upper third of the thigh of a young lady, aged 19 years, It had existed thirteen or fourteen years, and first appeared as a small stain like a naevus. Its growth was at first very slow, but rapid during the last year. A microscopic section is preserved, No. 161. Presented by Thomas Smith, Esq. 3277. Section of a Tumour, with a portion of Skin, removed from the front of the abdomen. The tumour consists of a uniform pale firm substance, which contained a large quantity of highly albuminous fluid. xxxv. 20 3278. A Tumour removed from the front of the thigh. It was very loosely imbedded in the tissue between the vastus internus muscle and the femur. A complete membranous sac invests it. Before its immersion in spirit it had a yellow colour. It consists throughout of a firm yellowish substance, closely intersected by tough white bands. Its chemical composition was chiefly albumen, with a very small proportion of oily matter. xxxv. 33 The patient was a man, 59 years old. The tumour had grown slowly. He died shortly after the operation, and no similar disease was found in any otber part of his body. 3279. A pedunculated Tumour, composed of soft fibrous tissue, the meshes of which contained serous fluid. 3280. A pedunculated fibro-cellular Tumour, removed from the lumbar region of a man, aged 54. XI. 53 The tumour had been growing for about fourteen years, and had very gradually increased until two or three weeks before removal, when it was said to have increased much more rapidly. For a drawing of the tumour, see No. 552. 3281. Section of a small fibro-cellular Tumour, attached by a long pedicle to the skin of the axilla. appendix. 1 3282. Sections of a Tumour, removed from the front of a man's abdomen. It, was covered by thin vascular skin, and was nearly pendulous. It has a some- what oval form, and measures from an inch and a half to two inches in its