577 CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. 182. Cast of an exactly similar Tumour in the Groin, which subsided on the dis- charge of a large quantity of pus through an ulcerated opening in the skin over it. The testicle on this side had not passed into the scrotum. DISEASES OF THE URETHRA AND PENIS. 182a. Various Models illustrating Venereal Disease in the male and female. DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. 183. Cast of a Uterus which had been long inverted. It was found in a body, in a dissecting-room, by Professor Mackenzie, of Glasgow, by whom the specimen was preserved. This and the four following casts were presented by J. B. Crosse, Esq., and illustrate specimens described and represented by him in his " Essay on Inyersio Uteri." 184. Cast of an Inverted Uterus, occurring after an abortion at the end of four months of gestation. 185. Cast of a completely Inverted Uterus, taken one month after delivery, and immediately before its removal by ligature. 186. Cast of a Specimen, which was long considered to be an inverted uterus, but which on dissection proved to be " a fibrous tumour, originating just within the cervix uteri, obliterating the os uteri in its gradual progress, and at length depending in the vagina . . . and causing atrophy of the uterus." (Crosse, loc. ext., Part II, p. 149, and PI. 13, 14) 187. Cast of the Tumour in the specimen just referred to. DISEASES AND INJURIES INCIDENTAL TO GESTATION AND PARTURITION. 188. Model of the Abdomen of a woman, containing a foetus which passed into it through a rupture of the wall of the uterus during labour. Presented by Dr. Conquest. 189. Cast of Trunk of a woman, who died undelivered from uterine rupture. 190. Cast of same after laying open the abdomen. 191. Another Cast of same. This and the two preceding Specimens were presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 192. Cast of the head of an infant, showing a large circular depression on the upper part of the forehead, produced by the pressure of the head against an abnormally prominent sacrum. The case is described by Dr. Godson in the Obstetrical Society's Transactions, 1881. 193. Spoon-shaped depression of Temporal bone from contracted brim. Delivered by version. Presented by Dr. Sidey. 194. Spoon-shaped depression of Temporal bone. Delivered of fifth child bv long forceps. Mother same as in the preceding. y Presented by Dr. Sidey. 195. Cast of a perforated Foetal Head. 2 p