1() DISEASES OF BONES. the leg and thigh ; the whole limb became (edematous, extensive suppuration ensued, and lie died from hectic and exhaustion. 65. A Section of the Tibia from the same limb as the preceding specimen. The medulla and cancellous tissue are similarly affected. Several irregular thin pieces of the outer wall, and two small portions of the cancellous tissue of the upper part of the shaft, have perished. The surface of the wall around the dead portions of bone is extensively ulcerated, and around this ulcerated part new bone has been abundantly formed. L 65a. The other Section of the same Tibia, showing superficial ulceration, necrosis, and a considerable deposit of new bone around the ulcerated surface. a. o/ (In Case E.) 66. A Section of a Tibia, exhibiting deposits of Lymph in the medullary tissue. Upon the external surface of the bone, in some situations, there is ulceration; in others, there are irregular deposits of osseous matter; and some small portions of its wall have suffered necrosis. L DU 67. The Lower End of a Left Femur, showing the effects of Acute Ostitis. The lower epiphvsis appears to have separated from the shaft, and the lower end of the latter projects forward, while the epiphysis is displaced backwards About three-quarters of an inch of the lower extremity of the shaft is necrosed and infiltrated with pus. The posterior surface of the shaft, mat above the point to which the epiphysis is adherent, is bare and dead; a bridge of newly- formed bone and ossifying connective tissue extends over it from the shaft above to the epiphysis. There is a thin irregular layer of new periosteal bone oyer the shaft The periosteum is much thickened; the medulla is infiltrated with the pro- ducts of inflammation, and the medullary canal is encroached upon by new bone The knee-ioint contained pus. The synovial membrane was extremely thick and pulpy. The cartilage over the lower surface of both condyles was destroyed and thetene covered with granulations ; over the remainder oftLeajte^ surface the cartilage was unevenly absorbed, as if chiselled off. lhe mtiamma- tlo^ptrsTthg case to have "attacked and been limited to the growing and recently formed bone at the extremity of the diaphysis. i7 w nrr^rl 11 vears who sprained his left knee. The next day bis thigh was FU°mn Snful On the thirl day after the fall be was admitted to the hospital with all the swollen and pain • Unto* tmra y ^ ^ ^ tQ ^ osteum appearances of acute m<t the leitknee-joint and was let out by an incision 111 Ub a J ^"Xission. Amputation was performed through the middle of the Zgr£l:^ to thehoW-See ^ * 336" 68 The other Section of the preceding Specimen after maceration. The displace- inent of the epiphysis is more evident. The rarefaction of the compact and Cancellous tissue of the lower end of the shaft is well marked. 69 A portion of the Lower Extremity of a Femur. The entire thickness of the shf/af the extremity of the diaphysis is necrosed and surrounded by soft *£JL~. M&g" ^^^^^^^ d A olate of new bone has been formed m this portion of the periosteum. THp lower extremity of the shaft of the femur is rarefied but there is an osseous depos^over aToiiderable erfent of the surface. The knee-joint was dis- organized by inflammation. . Qr™™rl hv ammitation from a child, aged 8 years, who, six weeks before, The specimen was removed by amputa* ^ ^ & collection of fell downland sfernek kerknee. O*corrPesponding portion of the femur was