229 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. INNOMINATE ARTERY. 1506. The Arch of an Aorta with its branches, an aneurism of the arteria innomi- nata, and the adjacent parts. The aorta is scarcely above the natural size: but its internal coat is thickened, opaque, tuberculated, and contains some fatty and calcareous matter. The whole length of the arteria innominata is dilated anteriorly into an aneurism of unequal, rounded shape, from three to four inches in its diameter, thick-walled, and partially filled with firm blood-clot. The right carotid is much narrowed in the first inch of its course, by the compres- sion of the aneurism, and by thickening of its own walls. The undilated posterior wall of the innominate artery is similarly thickened. The pneumogas- tric trunk and its recurrent branch are closely adherent to the exterior of tbe aneurismal sac; and the former was much compressed between it and the clavicle. xm. 125 The patient was 39 years old. He had first noticed the swelling three months before his death. 1507. Part of the Arch of an Aorta, with its large vessels, exhibiting an Aneurism of the Arteria Innominata pressing upon the trachea. The sac appears to be formed by dilatation of the whole circumference of a part of the artery, and contains laminated coagulum, the deposit of which has extended across the orifice of the right carotid artery, so as completely to close it. The canal of the trachea is slightly narrowed by the pressure of the aneurism. xm. 18 The patient was a girl, aged 20 years. For a fortnight before her death she was subject to paroxysms of dyspnoea, and in one of these she died. The case is related by Mr. Lawrence, in the Medico-Chirwrgical Transactions, vol. vi, p. 227. London, 1815. COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. 1508. A Carotid Artery, with a large Aneurism at its division. The sac is globular and completely filled by layers of coagulum loosely connected. A portion of straw is passed through the narrow opening of communication between the sac and the artery. Around the opening the coats of the artery are thickened and rough ; below it they appear quite healthy, but the canal of the artery is diminished by the pressure of the aneurism. The external and internal carotid arteries are pervious. The pneumogastric nerve is exposed above and below the aneurism; in the intermediate space it could not be traced on the sac- xm. 43 1509. The Arch of an Aorta, with the Innominate and right Carotid Arteries. There is an aneurism of the carotid artery, about half an inch below its division for the cure of which a ligature was applied. A section of the aneurismal sac shows its cavity contracted and filled by layers of coagulum. A portion of straw is passed through the narrow opening of communication between the sac and the artery. The place where the artery was tied is marked by a portion of straw, which is introduced into the channel leading to the artery from which the ligature was withdrawn. Below the situation of the ligature, the artery is filled by a large clot of blood, extending nearly to the division of the innomi- nate. Above the situation of the ligature the coats of the artery are thickened, and lymph is deposited upon its internal surface; a fibrinous adherent clot extends upwards to the division of the carotid into the external and internal branches, both of which are pervious. The coats of the aorta are thickened and tuberculated. xm 23 The patient was a man, aged 52 years. The aneurism had been observed for a month and appeared to be the result of an injury of the neck. He died in the fifth week after the opera- tion, with suppuration in the artery above, and in the tissues round the sac. The case is described by Mr. Vincent, in the Medico-Chirwrgical Transactions, vol. x, p. 212. Ltmdon 1510. The Arch of an Aorta, with the large Arteries proceeding from it, and an