DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. CUTANEOUS ERUPTIONS. ECZEMA. 2701. Scales of Epidermis from a case of general eczema exfoliativum. The patient was an old Irish woman. Under the use of simple remedies and warm alkaline baths she speedily recovered.—See Faith Ward Book, April, 1872. For Specimens of other Eruptions, vide Casts, Nos. 156 to 168. EXANTHEMATA. 2702. Epithelial Cast from the Foot in a case of scarlet fever. 210 From the collection of J. R. Farre, M.D. 2703. Portions of a Foot, exhibiting in the cuticle and cutis the appearances produced by small-pox pustules. xi. 20 Presented by Richard Partridge, Esq. ULCERS. 2704. Section of a Heel. Over the prominence at the back of the os calcis there is a circular ulcer as large as a shilling piece, at the bottom of which the bone is exposed. From a limb which had lain for six weeks on a back splint, for the treatment of a severe fracture, which ultimately necessitated amputation. VARICOSE. Vide Model No. 169. MORBID GROWTHS. FIBROUS GROWTHS. 2705. A large round pendulous Growth removed from the end of a Nose. A section of the growth shows that it is soft and elastic, and consists of compact, obscurely fibrous, tissue like the outer layers of healthy skin. Bristles are introduced into the orifices of several enlarged hair-follicles on the surface of the growth. XI. 18 2706. An overgrowth of Skin removed from the end of a Nose. It resembles the preceding, except in having a darker surface. XI. 87 2707. This oval Tumour was removed from the nape of the neck of an African, aged 28, where it had been growing for upwards of two years. It is of a dense uniform fibrous texture throughout, continuous with the corium, which in that region is remarkably thick, and possesses the same structure. Imbedded in its substance, and penetrating to the deepest part, are numerous hair-bulbs, xi. 44 PAPILLOMA, AND OTHER "WARTY GROWTHS. 2708. Part of a Warty Growth on the Skin. The cuticle is in part separated and turned downwards, to show that it is greatly increased in thickness, xi. 3 2709. A large mass of Warts, removed from the margin of the anus. xi. 2 2710. A portion of Skin from a Leg. The most obvious characters of the disease are due to small, round, or polygonal nodules of diseased cuticle, very closely arranged, so as to give a tesselated character to the surface. The subjacent cutis, exposed by the removal of some of the nodules, is rough, hard, and covered by a thin layer of cuticle. XI- 28 2711. The Great Toe of the same patient similarly diseased; but the diseased cuticle has no regular arrangement, and is in various parts deeply fissured. xi. 29 The patient was a gentleman, 46 years old. He had been subject to the disease from his