SERIES XXIII. xx. 5 / DISEASES OF THE PANCREAS. ■♦— FATTY DEGENERATION. 2269. Section of a Pancreas, enlarged to nine inches in length and between two and three inches in breadth. Its whole tissue appears to be converted into fat. The lobular appearance of the gland is preserved; but nothing but fat-cells can be discerned in its structure. xx- « From a middle-aged man, who was deemed in good health before he was attacked by typhus fever, of which he died in a few days. CALCULI IN THE DUCTS, &c. 2270. A Pancreas. The much dilated duct, which is laid open, contains very numerous rough spiculated concretions of various shapes and sizes. Its rami- fications are filled by similar small concretions, as shown by sections at various parts of the gland. A bristle is passed through the opening into the intestine; immediately before entering the intestinal wall the greatest dilatation of the duct is observed. The concretions consisted of carbonate of lime. From a man, aged 40 years, who died of diabetes.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. viii, p. 87. 2271. A Pancreas, with the vertical portion of the Duodenum. The pancreatic duct near its greater end is dilated into a spherical sac of more than an inch in diameter. A portion of glass is passed from this sac through the rest of the duct (which was obstructed by calcareous matter), into the duodenum. The pancreas itself is diminished in size and less lobulated than natural. Its substance is hard and nearly homogeneous. XX. 2 Tbe patient was a very intemperate man 48 years old. He had long suffered with dyspepsia, diarrhoea, and intestinal discharges of an oily fluid which, on cooling, congealed into a substance like spermaceti. Near the end of his life, he became dropsical. He had tubercular disease of the lungs, cirrhosis of the liver, an ulcer in the stomach, and tubercular ulcers of the intes- tines. v TUBERCULAR DISEASE. 2272. Sections of a Pancreas, through the whole extent of which there are abundant small deposits of tubercular matter. XX. 6 The specimen, when recent, is represented in the drawing No. 286. MORBID GROWTHS. 2273. Section of a Pancreas, the whole thickness of which near its larger end is occupied by an oval mass of hard cancerous substance, with a coarse fibrous texture. The portion of the organ between the tumour and the duodenum is healthy : the other portion is of small size, and appears degenerated into fat.