DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE 274 1790. Tongue of a man, aged 55 years, removed by Symes' operation of dividing the symphysis of the lower jaw, and excising the whole organ. The tongue is completely infiltrated with epithelioma, and a deep longitudinal fissured ulcer is seen on its superior surface. The disease had existed for nine months. See Pitcairn Ward Book, vol. i, pp. 117 and 124. 1791. Cancerous ulceration of the tongue, from a man, aged 40 years, who died suddenly after one profuse haemorrhage. The disease had existed five months. The whole right half of the tongue has been destroyed quite to the root, and the surface of the ulcer was in a sloughing state. Immediately in front of the anterior palatine arch the ulcer communicates with a distinct cavity, with slough- ing walls, situated below the submaxillary gland and beneath the hyoglossus muscle. Into this cavity the lingual artery opens about three-quarters of an inch beyond its origin. A bristle has been passed from the carotid through the lingual artery into the cavity, and another from the cavity through the opening into the mouth. 1792. A Larynx, with part of the Fauces. A large growth of soft medullary substance, partially ulcerated, covers the base of the tongue, the soft palate, the tonsils, and the upper and posterior walls of the pharynx. am. 6 1793. A mass of soft, spongy, vascular, and apparently medullary substance which was removed from the surface of a tongue. xxm. -7 The patient was an elderly lady. On two previous occasions masses like this had grown rapidly, and had heen removed. They were so slightly attached that they were peeled oil by scraping the surface of the tongue with the fingers. After the removal of this mass, which is of nearly the shape and size of the tongue itself, the disease was speedily reproduced, and ended fatally. Drawings are preserved Nos. 187, 188. Presented by Eobert Ceely, Esq. 1794. Section of the Tongue of a Cow, from the surface of which there are very large, deeply lobed, and warty growths, probably epitheliomatous. xxm. 20 INJURIES. 1795. The anterior half of a Tongue, which was bitten off in an epileptic fit The patient recovered and retained the power of articulation. XXIII. 5 DISEASES OF THE GUMS, AND HARD PALATE. EPULIS. 1796. A Tumour removed from the alveolar margin of a superior maxillary bone. It is of round form, and consists of a very firm substance, like fibro-cartilage containing specks of bone. xxni. 14 1797. Sections of the front of a Lower Jaw, which was removed with an Epulis. The tumour, of a rounded oval form and a firm obscurely fibrous texture, rose to the height of half an inch from the margin of the jaw and overlapped both its surfaces. One of the sections shows that the part of the jaw on which the tumour rested is in its own texture sound; its surface was smooth and the periosteum healthy. L ^47 From a young woman in whom the disease had made slow progress. 1798. An Epulis, removed from the Lower Jaw of a girl. It is of an irregularly oval form, and composed of a firm, white, obscurely fibrous substance, like the