DISEASES AND INJURIES OF NERVES. 389 The man from whom these nerves were removed had suffered for nine months from cancer of the thyroid body, and, secondarily, of the glands of the neck. His voice became by degrees weak and indistinct, scarcely more than a whisper, and before death he suffered trom aphonia. —See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xvii, p. 171. FORMATION OF BULBOUS ENLARGEMENTS AFTER INJURIES OR AM- PUTATIONS. 2563. The Ulnar Nerve and adjacent parts from a man, who had received a severe wound at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the fore-arm, fourteen years before death. The nerve had been completely divided. The upper end of the nerve appears little less than its normal size, and under the microscope showed very little atrophy ; about three-quarters of an inch above the point of division there is a well-marked bulbous enlargement. The lower end of the nerve is much atrophied ; and was found to consist almost entirely of connec- tive tissue, with a few axis-cylinders. The lower end of the nerve is attached to the uuder surface of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris; its upper end to the upper and inner aspect of the same tendon. The two portions of the nerve are not on the same plane, and much scar-tissue intervened between them. There was complete atrophy of all the muscles of the hand supplied by the ulnar nerve, with contraction of the little and ring fingers. Sensation was, however, perfect in the skin supplied by the nerve. See Harley Ward Book, vol. hi, p. 46. 2564. Part of a Humerus, with the several Nerves of. the Arm, from a stump. The nerves present bulbous enlargements at their extremities, which are firmly united together, and to the end of the bone, by dense cellular tissue. viii. 10 2565. Nerves of a Fore-Arm, with the bones, from a stump. The extremities of the radial, ulnar, and median nerves form very dense, bulb-like swellings, two of which are closely, and one more distantly, connected with the cicatrix in the skin. vui. 7 2566. The first Bone of a Middle Finger, from a stump. The digital nerves present bulbous enlargements at their extremities, which are firmly united to the bone. vm. 11 Vide also Series XLIX, Nos. 3210 to 3213. INJURIES OF NERVES. 2567. Portion of a Radial Nerve, with the Tendons of the Flexor Carpi Radialis and Flexor Longus Pollicis Muscles. Long before death the artery was com- pletely, and the nerve partially, divided. The divided filaments of the nerve have become firmly adherent to the two contiguous tendons. The sensibility of the fingers was unimpaired. vlIIi 14 The fore-arm of the same person is preserved in No. 1410, Series VIII.