315 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. glands behind the rectum are enlarged and filled by a substance similar to that of which the tumour is composed. XVL The patient waa a woman 40 years old. She died extremely emaciated with ^ed^kry tumours in the liver and other parts. She had made no complaint leading to a suspicion ot disease of the rectum. 2071. The lower part of a Rectum, with the Urinary Bladder and an enlarged Prostate Gland. The rectum is the seat of extensive medullary disease. _ boit- enino- and disintegrating, it has made its way into the bladder, involving its mucous lining, and projecting into its interior soft fungous granulations. A free communication exists, as indicated by the director passed from the bladder into the rectum. The prostate is enlarged, chiefly upwards, m its lateral lobes, and the prostatic bar stretches across the neck of the bladder. xvi. 10b The disease was of two years' duration, and proved fatal by exhaustion, consequent upon repeated haemorrhages. Presented by Charles Mayo, Esq. 2072. An annular stricture of the Rectum, situated eight inches from the anus. The mucous membrane at the seat of the stricture is infiltrated with a new growth and ulcerated ; the lower margin of the ulcer is raised and everted. From a woman, aged 56 years, on whom the operation of colotomy was performed on the right side for the relief of intestinal obstruction, caused by the stricture. The patient died from peritonitis on the day following the operation. 2073. A Rectum, with a portion of the sigmoid flexure of the Colon. The rectum presents an annular contraction with thickening, induration, and superficial ulceration of its coats (? cancerous) in the line of its junction with the colon. The contraction of the rectum was so close and firm that a finger could not be passed through it. The colon is dilated and hypertrophied. Except at the annular contraction the rectum is healthy. xvi. 59 Vide No. 2080. HAEMORRHOIDS: Enlargement of the Hsemorrhoidal Veins. 2074. A Rectum, around the lower part of which the veins, dilated into hsemor- rhoidal tumours, have been filled with wax injected into the inferior mesenteric vein. XVI- 38 2075. Portion of a Rectum. At its lower border the mucous membrane is raised in folds and lobular tumours, by the hemorrhoidal enlargement of the subjacent veins. XVI- 27 2076. Portion of a Rectum with Haemorrhoids. The surfaces of the haemorrhoids are formed partly by the mucous membrane of the rectum, and partly by the external integuments thickened and raised in irregular folds around the margin of the anus. xvi. 43 2077. A pyriform Clot of Blood, firm and dark, which was removed from a dilated portion of a hsemorrhoidal vein. xvi. 103 INJURIES OF, AND OPERATIONS UPON, THE RECTUM. 2078. Portion of a Rectum from a young person. A quill is passed through an aperture in the upper part of the intestine, where it is covered by peritoneum; the aperture was made by the end of a metallic clyster-pipe. xvi. 36 The contents of the clyster were injected into the peritoneal cavity, and produced fatal peritonitis. 2079. The Rectum, Uterus, and Vagina of a child 5 years old. Ten months