GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 508 of the temporal bone with the body of the sphenoid and the occipital bones on the left side of the base of the skull of a woman, aged 35 years. The structure of the outgrowth appears to be of a firm material like dry cheese, infiltrated throughout with granules of earthy matter. The outer layers im- mediately beneath the dura mater are formed of firm dense bone. Microscopic examination showed an abundance of fat, with debris of cells mixed with earthy particles. The tumour projected into the posterior fossa of the base of the skull, and was not discovered until the complete removal of the brain. The latter appeared perfectly healthy. The patient was admitted into the Ophthalmic Ward on account of suppuration in the orbit and frontal sinus following a blow upon the eje and nose. Meningitis resulted and caused her death, the inflammation evidently spreading from the frontal sinus throughout the entire right side of the meninges. The membranes on the left side of the brain, and at the base in the situation of the tumour were perfectly normal.—See Ophthalmic Ward Boole, vol. i, p. 147. 3354. A Tumour, which was removed from the substance of the triceps muscle of the left arm of a woman, aged 32 years. It was situated two or three inches above and behind the elbow-joint. It was tender when handled, and the pain extended down the fore-arm to the two last fingers. In the operation the ulnar nerve was found passing tightly over its surface. The woman had been aware of its existence for five or six months. The tumour has a fibrous structure, but the distinction between it and the investing portion of the triceps is by no means well-defined. The ruddy fibres of the muscle seemed to pass abruptly into the pale, dense, and more uniform substance of the tumour. 3355. The outer portion of the hand of a boy, aged 14 years. Some days before the limb was removed, the palm of the hand became painful and swollen, apparently without any previous injury. It was punctured and some dark fluid blood escaped. From that time it rapidly increased, a large mass pro- truding through the aperture. The whole of the palmar surface is occupied by a large mass through which the flexor tendons pass unchanged. When recent, it presented the aspect of blood clot in a state of decomposition. The microscopic characters were those of fibrin and blood clot. 3356. Section of a part of the integuments and muscles of an upper Arm. The subcutaneous tissue, and the cellular tissue connected with it and extendinsr between the muscles down to the bone, are indurated, opaque-white, and fibrous like the tissue of a cicatrix. Small portions only of the subcutaneous fat remain. Imbedded in this indurated substance, and in a few instances in the adjacent muscles also, are numerous small, nodulated, soft tumours. They now present a pinkish colour; but, in the recent state they were greyish, glistening, nearly transparent, and jelly-like. Many of the tumours are closely grouped; and the skin over some of them is raised in a coarsely tuberculated form, and is excoriated or covered by a thin cuticle. xxxv. 58 3357. A section of the integuments which covered the elbow of the same arm, exhibiting a large oval mass, apparently composed of the same substance as the tumours just described, but firmer and more uniform. Its exposed surface is formed of healthy-looking granulations. Its base rests on the aponeurosis of the triceps humeri muscle. xxxv. 59 The patient wa9 a woman, 32 years old. The disease had existed eight years. It com- menced with a deep-seated induration in the arm, whence it extended by the formation of fresh tumours both upwards and downwards, till the surface of nearly the whole upper arm was tuberculated. The patient recovered after amputation at the shoulder-joint.