SERIES XXII DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE GALL-BLADDER AND BILIARY DDOTS. DILATATION AND THICKENING OF THE GALL-BLADDER AND BILIARY DUCTS. 2242. A Gall-Bladder, of which, in consequence of the lodgment of a calculus within it, the coats are thickened and indurated. Its internal surface has lost its reticular structure, is rough, and at some points ulcerated. A piece of whalebone is passed into the cystic duct, which is very much contracted. xix. 8 Vide No. 2257. 2243. Bile-Ducts and Gall-Bladder, with a portion of Duodenum. The hepatic and common ducts are much dilated and thickened, in consequence of the passage of calculi through them. xix. 10 2244. Biliary Ducts, enlarged and thickened in consequence of the lodgment of calculi in them. One of the calculi remains filling a hepatic duct near its entrance into the liver. Xix. 1 EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION. 2245. Portion of a Liver with a Gall-Bladder altered by chronic inflammation. 170 From the collection of J. E,. Farre, Esq., M.D. Vide Nos. 2242, 2261, 2262. OBSTRUCTION OF THE BILIARY DUCTS. By Calculi and other Foreign Bodies. 2246. Portion of a Duodenum, with the Bile-Ducts, dried. A biliary culculus of large size is impacted in the common duct, and one of smaller size in the cystic duct. All the ducts are dilated ; especially the common, and hepatic, ducts. xix. 2. 2247. A Gall-Bladder, with part of the Liver. The muscular coat of the gall- bladder is increased in thickness, and the fundus contains two stones the size of hazel-nuts. The common bile-duct, which is laid open, was much dilated: it contains two large gall-stones, one conical, the other cylindrical. The aperture of the bile-duct was patent. xix. 22 From a woman, aged 44 years, who died from erysipelas. She was jaundiced and had some abdominal pain—See Faith Ward Book, toI. x, p. 103 ; Post Mortem Book, vol. vii, p. 271. 2248. Gall-Bladder from a woman aged 43 years. It is enlarged and was full of transparent fluid. A large calculus is seen within it, and another smaller one is impacted in the commencement of the cystic duct, which is contracted around it. The common duct was free. The fluid consisted of thick yellowish z 2