SERIES IV INJURIES OF JOINTS, DISLOCATIONS, &c* DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. OF THE STERNAL END. 1017. Portion of a Clavicle, with the upper piece of the Sternum and the First Rib, from an adult. The sternal end of the clavicle is dislocated downwards and forwards. The capsule of its articulation with the sternum is torn ; but the costo-clavicular ligament is entire. The first rib is separated from its cartilage. in. 97 OF THE ACROMIAL END. 1018. A dislocation upwards of the Acromial End of the Clavicle, with fracture of the Shaft. The ligamentous connections between the clavicle and acromion are almost completely torn through. There is a transverse fracture at the junction of the inner with the outer two-thirds of the clavicle, but the periosteum covering the superior and inner surfaces of the bone is intact. From a man aged 35 years, who fell from a scaffold 15 feet high. The acromial end of the clavicle projected upwards, and there was so much separation that a finger could be inserted between it and the acromion. Death took place from injuries to the head.—See Harley Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 15. DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. STJB-CORACOID. 1019. Dissection of a recently dislocated Shoulder-Joint, which was reduced during life. The deltoid muscle is cut across and reBected; the lower part of the muscle was bruised and separated from the bone to a slight extent. The subscapulars is cut across about one inch from its insertion; its under surface at this point was slightly bruised. Neither this muscle nor the supra-spinatus or infra-spinatus was lacerated. The capsule of the joint was untorn; a small extent of its anterior attachment, with the periosteum with which it was continuous, was detached from the margin of the glenoid cavity and adjacent bone, but the joint was not opened. The capsule has been cut across at its anterior attachment. There is a deep vertical indentation or groove at the posterior margin of the articular surface of the head of the humerus, into which the anterior margin of the glenoid cavity accurately fits. It appears to * For Dislocation of the Spine see the following series, p. 170.