286 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE PHARYNX AND OESOPHAGUS. layers of the muscular fibres of the oesophagus are torn through at their connection with those of the stomach ; and, by their retraction towards the upper part of the oesophagus, its submucous tissue is exposed over the whole extent of its last four inches. A similar retraction of the muscular fibres on the fundus of the stomach has taken place, exposing a large portion of its sub- mucous tissue. There is a small laceration of the mucous and submucous tissues of the oesophagus about two inches from the cardiac orifice. xxiv. 9 The patient was a man 65 years old. For about a year before bis death he had dyspepsia, and was believed to have stricture in the lower part of the oesophagus, for which probangs were passed. He was subject to vomiting, and could not swallow anything solid. He felt the rupture of the oesophagus during a slight act of vomiting, thirty-six hours before death. Great visceral disease is stated to have been found after death ; but there is no appearance of stricture or of any change of structure having existed in the oesophagus previous to the rupture. Presented by Beriah Brook, Esq. 1864. The (Esophagus and Left Lung. About one inch below the level of the cricoid cartilage a small glass rod is passed through an aperture on the anterior surface of the oesophagus, leading into a channel formed by the separation of the longitudinal from the transverse layer of muscular fibres. The channel communicated below by two openings immediately above the diaphrao-m with the left pleural cavity, and by another with the lower part of the canal of tbe oesophagus: into these apertures portions of glass rod are inserted. Immediately below the upper aperture described, three flat condy- loma-like growths project from the mucous membrane of the gullet; otherwise there was no obstruction of its canal. At the lower part of the oesophagus there are two large openings, one above the other, apparently produced by post mortem digestion. The left pleura is covered with lymph and there was some pleurisy at the base of the left lung. From a child aged 2 years. Catheters were passed down his oesophagus on account of difficulty in deglutition, occurring nine weeks after he had swallowed some oil of vitriol. A slight contraction of the oesophagus was felt. A few hours after the passage of some gum elastic catheters down the gullet under chloroform, the mother brought the child back to the Hospital, stating that it had been very ill since recovering from the chloroform. Ihe child was admitted and died on the second day Prom pleurisy.—See Lucas Ward Book, vol. vn, p. 33. 1865. Ulceration of the CEsophagus with constriction of the canal. A bougie passed clown to the stricture perforated the oesophagus, and passed by the side of it as low down as the diaphragm. 96 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. IMPACTION OF FOREIGN BODIES IN THE CESOPHAGUS. 1866 Part of an (Esophagus and Pharynx with the surrounding structures. At the commencement of the former, just below the level of the cricoid cartilage, a fragment of bone, fixed across the axis of the canal, has its pointed ex- tremities imbedded in the ulcerated and sloughing mucous membrane. On either side of the pharynx are cavities which contained pus, surrounded by slouching tissue. One of these, on the right side, extends between the oesophagus and the trachea. These abscesses communicate freely with the ulcers which surround the impacted extremities of the foreign body. xxiv. 22 Removed from the body of a man who had swallowed the fragment of bone nine days before death The probang, when introduced, slipped past it over its posterior border, so that, during fife, no certain indication of its presence was obtained. 1867 A Heart, Pericardium, and CEsophagus. The broken end of a large fish- bone proiects' from the oesophagus about a quarter of an inch above the cardiac orifice of the stomach : the sharp pointed extremity is seen protruding through the upper and posterior portion of the pericardium. The bone was m a position