DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. to it, is while and variously shaded with grey and black. The brain of the same individual is preserved in Series XXX, No. 2498. ix. 16 2634. An Eye filled with soft melanotic sarcoma. A large nodnlar mass of the growth has protruded through and overgrown the cornea and the anteroinferior part of the sclerotic. Most of the tissues of the eye are involved m the disease, but it appears to have had its primary seat in the choroid. ix. *8 2635. The Eye of a man, aged 40, showing a melanotic sarcoma, which had penetrated through the posterior part of the globe into the orbit. It commenced, and was recognised with the ophthalmoscope, about a year before its removal, as a growth from the choroid—See Ophthalmic Ward Bool, Male, vol. iii, p. 84. 2636. A Melanotic Sarcoma of the Choroid, which protruded through the posterior surface of the globe into the orbit.—See Ophthalmic Ward Book, Female, vol. iii, p. 314. 2637. Sarcoma of the Choroid. A tumour springs from the choroid on the inner side of the disc. The retina, extremely thinned, can be traced over its surface. The tumour was found on microscopic examination to be composed chiefly of round cells, with, in places, an admixture of spindle-cells. Most of the cells contained pigment. The eye was removed from a man, aged 63. 2638. Sections of a mass of Melanotic Sarcoma removed from a man's orbit. The remains of the eye were included in the mass, but the growths within and without the globe are so confused that none of its parts can be now discerned. The lower part of each section is covered with the everted and partially ulce- rated palpebral conjunctiva. IX. 29 The patient was 44 years old. This disease had been in progress for about eight months, but the eye had been atrophied for nearly twelve years previously, in consequence of acute inflam- mation after injury. The disease completely filled and protruded from the orbit. It was freely removed, but in two months it recurred, and five months afterwards proved fatal. No. 394 is a drawing of the specimen in its recent state. 2639. Sections of a large lobulated Tumour, which was removed from the cavity of the left orbit of an adult; and a portion of Brain, from the same individual. To the upper part of the sections of the tumour is attached the posterior half of the eyeball : this is filled by a substance similar to that of the tumour, so that it may be assumed that the tumour began to grow within the eye and pro- truded through its anterior part. The tumour is, throughout, soft and brain- like in its texture ; parts of it are nearly white, and parts are intensely black. It appears also to have been very vascular. In the lower part of the bottle is a portion of the tumour which was extracted from the back part of the orbit: it consists of the same substance as that already described. The optic nerves are connected with the portion of brain; the left nerve has some of the medullary and melanotic substance attached to it: it is reduced in size as far as the com- missure ; but beyond this, no change is visible in it. rx. 7 The patient was an unhealthy man, 65 years old. The disease had existed about twelve months. He died ten days after the extirpation of the eye ; and melanotic disease was found in the liver, sections of which are preserved in Series XXI, No. 2212. The case is related by Sir Win, Lawrence in his " Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye." London, 1844, 8vo, p. 720. LENS. DISLOCATION. 2640. An Eyeball, which was removed on account of severe pain. The retina is completely detached, and the opaque lens had fallen from its proper position