4 DISEASES OF BONES. in one situation the separation of the dead bone has been commenced by the formation of a groove between it and the living bone. l- *-o The death of the hone was produced by the perforation of its walls. 19. Tibia of a Dog, exhibiting a portion of its wall dead and in process of exfoliation. The dead bone is distinguishable from the living by its whiter colour; its separation is almost complete. Between the dead and the living bone a space intervenes, which is filled by soft and vascular substance. New bony matter is heaped upon the living bone around the dead bone, as well as in a thick layer on that side of the shaft which is opposite the seat of the necrosis. The periosteum has been in part detached from the tibia, to show that the new bone is entirely beneath this membrane, having been formed between it and the surface of the original wall of the bone, with which, how- ever, it has completely coalesced. *• The changes just described succeeded the cauterization of the external surface of the bone. 20. Tibia of a Dog, from which a portion of the wall, nearly similar to that which is shown in process of separation in the preceding specimen, has entirely exfoliated. The surface from which the dead bone has been separated is very vascular ; and new bone is deposited in considerable quantity on the surface of the shaft around and opposite to it. L y This preparation was made in the same manner as the preceding. TOTAL NECROSIS. 21. Section of the Tibia of a Dog, in which the shaft of the bone, in its whole length and in nearly its whole thickness, died. The periosteum, which is thickened, separated from it. Upon the internal surface of the separated periosteum, the formation of new bone has taken place m small irregular deposits. The old bone, at its extremities, still retains connexion with the periosteum; hence it has received some of the fluid injected into the blood vessels. The death of the bone was produced by the destruction of the medulla, as in No. 24. 22 Sections of the Tibia of a Dog, in which, as in the preceding nearly the whole shaft of the bone has died. The dead bone is in process of separation, and new bone is formed around it in much larger quantity than m the preceding specimen. The periosteum which belonged to the old bone covers the^new bone. The death of the bone was produced by the destruction of the medulla, as in No. 24. PARTIAL. NECROSIS. 23 Section of the Tibia of a Dog, in which Necrosis was produced in a portion of the middle of its shaft. The dead bone, not yet separated from the living is in part enclosed by new bone which has been formed around it. I. 14 The necrosis was produced by the destruction of the medulla. 24 Section of the Tibia of a Dog, in which a large portion of the cancellous tissue and of the wall of the shaft perished. The dead bone lay m a cavity with very vascular walls, and new bone was m process of formation around it The periosteum which belonged to the old bone covers the new bone; but many fistulous holes extend through it into the cavity which contained the old b°The walls of the bone were perforated, and the medulla destroyed. The bone was laid bare for that purpose at the part where now the largest aperture into the cavity exists.