DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 233 From a man, aged 54 years. The blood was found to have made its way into the ventricles beneath the right hippocampus major. The pia mater of the base of the brain, and of the whole spinal cord, was full of blood. The arteries generally were atheromatous, and the left ventricle was much hypertrophied.—See Radcliffe Ward Book, February 12th, 1871. 1526. Aneurism of the Anterior Communicating- Artery, about the size of a small marble, and having a rent on its lower aspect. From a man, aged 41 years, who died about twenty-four hours after the onset of symptoms. Blood was found effused in the meninges, and it had forced its way through the corpus callo- sum into the lateral ventricles.—See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xii, 1876, p. 239. 1527. Aneurism of the Anterior Communicating Artery, from a man, aged 20 years, who was admitted into the Hospital with symptoms of meningeal haemorrhage, and died on the following day. The meninges were found filled with blood. The aneurism was not ruptured, and the source of the haemorrhage could not be ascertained. The arteries were free from atheroma. Heart and kidneys normal. No clots in the heart.—See Transactions of Pathological Society, vol. xxix, 1878, p. 106. 1528. An Aneurism the size of a large pea in front of the bifurcation of the Basilar Artery. From a woman, aged 40 years, who died suddenly in convulsions, while preparing to leave the Hospital into which she had been admitted one month previously for epilepsy. 1529. The Arteries at the base of the.Brain as seen from below. The left verte- bral is dilated. The basilar at its origin is thickened and dilated to the size of a split pea, and about the middle of the dilatation on the left side is a small opening, through which a glass rod has been passed. The specimen was taken from the body of a man, aged 52 years, who was admitted into the Hospital October 26th, 1877. He had fallen off his seat whilst at work, from vertigo, but there was no loss of consciousness and no convulsions. When first seen he could stand and walk; there was slight right facial palsy, with slight dilatation of the right pupil. Five hours later he suddenly uttered a cry, put his hand to the back of his neck, and became deeply comatose. His respirations fell in number to six in the minute, and he died half-an-hour later from increasing dyspnoea. A large clot surrounded the pons and medulla.—See Matthew Ward Booh, vol. vi, p. 165. 1530. The Arteries of a Brain, having upon them numerous miliary aneurisms. From a woman, aged 70 years, who had been subject to epileptic fits for seven years. She became hemiplegic on the left side three months before death, and during the two previous months she had only been partially conscious. There was slight yellow softening of the ante- rior inferior angle of the right cerebral hemisphere.—See case of Catherine Herbert Hope Ward Book, vol. i. ' For other specimens of Aneurism of the Cerebral Arteries, vide Series XXX, Nos. 2471 2472. ABDOMINAL AORTA. 1531. The Abdominal Portion of the Aorta, with an Aneurism formed by dilata- tion of the greater part of its circumference, and extending from the superior mesenteric to the iliac arteries. The walls of the sac and of the adjacent por- tions of the artery are thick and tuberculated; there is a small round aperture through which the front of the aneurism burst into the duodenum by a regular' smooth-edged opeumg. The superior and inferior mesenteric arteries are obliterated at their origins. XIII gg The aneurism had probably existed more than two years. The rupture occurred four days before death. ""J11 Presented by John Thorn, Esq.