553 PATHOLOGICAL MICROSCOPIC SPECIMENS. 103. Section of a Tumour of the Brain, probably a Sarcoma It consists of con- nective tissue with many small nuclei, but other much larger nuclei aie also scattered throughout it. From Specimen No. 2500. 104. Section of a round-cell Sarcoma of the Brain. It is composed of closely packed round-cells with very little intercellular substance, and some fasciculi of spindle-cells. From Specimen No. 2501. CANCERS. 105. Section of a Cancer of the Cerebellum. The growth consists of large round nuclei around many of which a cell substance is distinguishable. Ihese are arranged, somewhat indistinctly, in alveoli bounded by a small amount of connective tissue. In places a villous or papillary arrangement is distin- guishable. This and the appearance of the cells suggests that the tumour orio-inated from the endothelium of the ependyma, or of the membranes of the brain. From Specimen No. 2502. 106. A similar Tumour, but the cells are in this arranged in distinct alveoli, surrounded by a large amount of connective tissue, thickly dotted with small nuclei. From Specimen No. 2502a. 107. Section of a Cancer connected with the Brain, containing a large amount of connective tissue. From Specimen No. 2503. DISEASES OF NERVES. TUMOURS. FIBROUS. 108. Section of a Tumour imbedded in the Median "Nerve. It consists chiefly of fibrous tissue. From Specimen No. 2556. 109. A similar Specimen; but although composed mainly of well-formed fibrous tissue, there are considerable tracts of embryonic connective tissue containing abundant round- and spindle-shaped nuclei. From Specimen No. 2559. 109 a. Sections of a Neuroma, consisting of soft, homogeneous, or finely filamen- tous, connective tissue containing abundant round or oval nuclei; in places the nuclei are very numerous, and separated by only a small quantity of connective tissue. From Specimen No. 2559a. DISEASES OF THE EYE. TUMOURS. SARCOMATA. 110. Section of a Tumour of the Iris, probably a round-cell Sarcoma. From Specimen No. 2608. 111. Section of a Sarcoma of the Choroid. It is composed chiefly of small