DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE KIDNEYS, THEIR PELVES, ETC. 355 when she became anasarcous and had albuminous urine. She died in a state of coma, with pleurisy and pericarditis. 2336. A contracted Kidney, containing- at various points numerous small calculi. From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. Vide No. 3229, Series L. SUPPURATIVE NEPHRITIS AND PYELITIS, AND THEIR RESULTS. 2337. Section of a Kidney, of which nearly the whole of the glandular structure is absorbed. In its place, and in the pelvis and ureter, there is a soft and while substance, like mortar, consisting of phosphate of lime, with small proportions of carbonate of lime and of animal matter. xxvi. 17 From a woman, 62 years old, who for twelve years before her death had no sign of renal disease. Presented by S. G-. Lawrance, Esq. 2338. A Collection of thick yellowish Fluid, like liquid mortar, which filled the pelvis and sacculated remains of a wasted kidney. It is probably pus, degenerated and thickened by the absorption of much of its liquid part. xxvi. 32 NEPHRO-PHTHISIS (Tubercular Disease). 2339. A specimen in which there is abundant tubercular deposit on the mucous membrane of the pelvis, and in the cavities of the dilated infundibula. xxvi. 7 2340. A Kidney, in which there are many large cavities formed in consequence of abundant tubercular deposits in its substance. The cavities are lined by Li vers of false membrane coated by tubercular matter. The ureter is thickened, and tubercular matter covers its internal surface. xxvi. 27 There were tubercles in the lungs and several other organs, including the prostate gland and vesiculse seminales, preserved in Series XXXIX, No. 2847. 2341. A Kidney, and the upper portion of its Ureter, both filled with tubercular matter. Removed from a boy, aged 17. There was a large deposit of tubercle in the prostate about the neck of the bladder, which, bursting into it, caused retention of urine. 2342. Sections of a Kidney, which, with its pelvis, is occupied by abscess cavities of irregular shape, their walls nodulated, and formed by exteu- sive tubercular deposits. The abscesses approach the surface, and one in the lower section seems to have passed beyond and opens through the capsule. A small trace only remains of the original tissue, a little pale cortical substance being the only indication of it. Abundant lime salts are deposited upon the tuberculated and eroded surfaces. XXVI The case is fully related in St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. vii, p. 217. TUBERCULAR DISEASE OF THE URETERS. 2343. Portion of a Ureter, on the mucous membrane of which there are several large patches of tubercular matter, which have not commenced to break down and also beneath the mucous membrane small nodules of a similar material can be observed. From the same case as No. 2412, in Series XXIX. RENAL CALCULI AND THEIR EFFECTS. CALCULI IN THE PELVIS OF THE KIDNEY. 2344. A section of the Kidney of a female child, 5 months old, the pelvis of 2 a 2