120 INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). FRACTURES UNITED WITH EXCESSIVE FORMATION OF CALLUS, AND THICKENING OF THE BONES. 828. Section of a Clavicle, the scapular end of which is so enlarged after a fracture that it has the appearance of a tumour. A. 125 (In Case H.) 829. A Radius and Ulna, which have been fractured near their upper ends. The fractures are both firmly united, and a large quantity of new bone has been formed around them. The surfaces of the new bone on the radius and of that on the ulna, meeting in the interosseous space, have been roughly adapted to each other, but have not coalesced. c. 29 (In Case H.) 830. Sections of a Femur, in which there has been a fracture extending through the base of its neck, and through its shaft between the trochanters. There is firm union of the fractured surfaces, with shortening of the neck and an apparent descent of it below its natural situation. The union has taken place with a great accumulation of bone about the lines of fracture. C. 51 (In Case H.) 831. Section of a Femur at the part where it had been the seat of a comminuted fracture. Around the bone the periosteum is thickened, as seen in portions detached from the subjacent tissue. In the centre of the preparation is a mass of bone, separated from the remainder of the shaft at the time of the accident. Its compact walls are greatly thickened ; in more than half its extent they entirely replace the cancellous structure and the medullary canal. Of the latter only a small isolated portion still remains. At one extremity there is firm, bony union between the shaft and the portion of bone above described. At the other, where the great compactness and induration exist, a line of soft tissue, in which are scanty spicula of bone, intervenes between it and the shaft. Nevertheless, by means of bone thrown out from the periosteum, the two portions were held together. Death occurred from other causes six weeks after the injury. in. 127 From the collection of the late Mr. Lonsdale. 832. Sections of a Tibia, showing the reparative results of inflammation after a compound fracture. The union of the fractured ends of the bone is effected by an irregular and very abundant deposit of hard and heavy new bone; and for a considerable space above and below the place of union, the medullary tissue is consolidated. The surrounding tissues, thickened and indurated, were firmly adherent to the surface of the bone above and below the place of union. A portion of the thickened tissue has been detached and turned downwards. i. 89 833. A portion of the Fibula from the same limb as the preceding. Its fractured ends overlap each other, and are united by bone formed between them. l. 90 834. Port ions of a Tibia and Fibula with the Astragalus. Both the tibia and the fibula were fractured about three inches above the malleoli, and the frac- ture of the tibia extends downwards into the ankle-joint. The fractures are all firmly united, with little displacement, bat with much thickening and induration of the bones, and with osseous union of the tibia and fibula, and of both of them to the astragalus. c. 17 (In Case H.) 835. A Tibia, Fibula, and Ash'agalns. The tibia has been fractured at the junc- tion of the upper and middle thirds of its shaft. Its two portions, displaced laterally, have been firmly united, and the lower portion is enlarged by abun-