408 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. ELEPHANTIASIS. 2694. Section of the upper part of a Leg affected by Elephantiasis. The pos- terior tibial nerve is seen lying at the bottom of a longitudinal incision at the back of the limb, enormously enlarged. The enlargement is due to hypertrophy of the connective tissue of the nerve.—For a full description, see Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxvi, 1875. Presented by Dr. Newman, of Stamford. 2695. Section of a portion of a Leg affected with Elephantiasis.—Vide Casts Nos. 150, 151, 152. From the collection of J. R. Farre, M.D. Vide No. 2818. ELEPHANTIASIS GRJECORTTM (Leprosy). Vide Casts Nos. 148, 149. KELOID. 2696. Section of a Leg, in which the integument of the sides of the foot and the back of the leg was extensively affected with keloid. The diseased integument is gradually raised from one quarter to half an inch above the surrounding healthy level, and presents a tuberculated surface. Its outline is irregular, and about its borders, which are smooth and shelving, are a few small, scattered nodules. A section through the diseased structure shows that the change consists in circumscribed thickening and induration of the integu- ment, with production of very tough and compact fibrous tissue. The surface of the nodules is highly vascular, and, in some parts, ulcerated. The other structures of the leg appear healthy. Tbe other section of the leg is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. Nos. 403, 404, are drawings of the leg taken during life. xi. 38 The patient was 25 years old. The disease followed scalding with hot oil. The scalded parts were not healed till seven months after the injury. The scars began to "grow up" about a month after their completion; eight months afterwards the limb was amputated. 2697. A small Keloid, removed from the inner surface of the thigh, four inches below Poupart's ligament. It grew from the scar of a scald, and had been noticed six months. The patient was a child, aged 11 years.—See Lucas Ward Boole, vol. vii, p. 73. 2698. A similar enlarged and indurated Cicatrix, formed after the healing of a burn on the back of a young girl. A section shows that the cicatrix consists of a very dense, tough substance, in which shining white bands are interwoven in a course network in a greyish tissue, closely resembling the substance of a fibrous tumour. xi. 33 2699. Portion of Skin removed from the Neck. It includes an elevated cicatrix which formed after the healing of a burn. A section of the diseased part shows that it consists of a dense fibrous tissue. xi. 22 Vide No. 3267, Series L, and the Cast No. 153. MORPHCEA (Keloid of Addison, Scleroderma.) Vide Casts Nos. 154, 155. PIGMENTARY CHANGES. 2700. Portions of pigmented Integument, from the body of a youth, who died with extensive disease of the supra-renal capsules.—See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. vi, p. 565; also Drawings, Nos. 407, 300. xi. 20.