DISEASES AND INJURIES OF NERVES. 388 The tumour consists chiefly of fibrous tissue. A microscopic section is preserved, No. 108 ; and a drawing, A. 27. 2557. Portions of the Internal Cutaneous and Posterior Interosseous Nerves from the fore-arm of a woman, aged 75, to which large fibrous tumours are attached, and included amongst the filaments. In other portions of the nerve smaller tumours of varying size are seen more or less completely invested. The larger ones had existed for more than thirty years; they occasioned considerable pain. vm. 20 2558. A large Tumour of fibrous structure, which has undergone in its central portion, degeneration and softening. It grew in connection with the musculo- spiral nerve of a man, aged 40 years, and had been many years m progress. 1 he tumour was removed with the part of the nerve which it involved, ifae patient had subsequently paralysis of the parts to which the musculo-spiral nerve is distributed. VIH- 2559. Portion of an Axillary Artery, with the Axillary Plexus of Nerves, and a Tumour connected with them. A section has been made of the tumour, to show its interior, consisting of a soft fleshy substance, some of which appears deposited in cells. A nerve, presumed to be the median, is connected with the tumour at its upper and lower extremities. At its upper end, the filaments of this nerve are expanded over the tumour, in such a manner as to indicate that it commenced within the nerve. vnL ^ The tumour consists for the most part of well-formed fibrous tissue, but contains also some embryonic connective tissue. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 109, and a drawing, A. At. The patient was a middle-aged man. Six years before his death, a ligature was placed upon the subclavian artery, on account of a pulsating tumour then presenting below the clavicle, and supposed to be an aneurism of the axillary artery. The preparation contains the portion of the artery which was obliterated below the seat of the ligature. The artery has been divided to show the firm coagulum of fibrin which filled it, and was closely adherent to its inner surface, to the extent of about an inch and a half beyond the ligature. The thorax of the same patient, with the arteries injected, is preserved, No. 1409, SeThe\ase'is recorded by Mr. Stanley, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxviii, p. 314. London, 1845. 2560. An Ischiatic Nerve, with a small, firm, white Tumour within its sheath The filaments of the nerve are separated by the tumour, and loosely connected with its surface. vm" Vide No. 3283 in Series L. SPINDLE-CELI. SARCOMA. 2561. A portion of one of the Nerves of a Brachial Plexus, probably one of the roots of the median nerve, with a tumour in its sheath. It was removed, toother with a portion of the internal cutaneous nerve, which lies upon it. lhe tumour is of an oval form, nearly an inch in length; it lies completely within the sheath of the nerve, the bundles of nervous filaments being pressed to one side • and it is composed of a pale, uniform, firm, elastic, glistening substance, which appears in one situation somewhat softened. The tumour consists of elongated spindle-shaped cells. vm- 17 The patient was a man, about 25 years old. The tumour had grown slowly, and with much pain in the arm. CANCER. 2562 A right recurrent Laryngeal Nerve. The mass of tissue which surrounds it consists of dense scirrhous material involving one of the cervical glands. The nerve fibres are not merely surrounded and compressed, but are separated from one another by the penetration of the cancer growth between them. The left recurrent nerve was equally involved. Tin. 19