531 URINARY CALCULI. 177. A section of a large Calculus, composed throughout of Calcium Phosphate and Ammonio-Magnesium Phosphate; it was only slightly fusible. 178. Twelve polyhedral Calculi. Fusible, with a comparatively large proportion of Phosphate of Lime, and a small portion of Uric Acid. Analysed by Dr. Hue. 179. Numerous Calculi with flattened surfaces. Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia, a little Phosphate of Lime, and some Urate of Ammonia. Taken after death, from the bladder of a middle-aged man. Presented by T. Smith, Esq. 180. Three Calculi, consisting of a mixture of Ammonio-Magnesium Phosphate and Calcium Phosphate; removed after death from a boy, aged 8 years. The two largest were found in the bladder, and the smallest with three other small stones, in the pelvis of the left kidney. The left ureter was extremely dilated. Presented by J. H. Tarleton, Esq. 181. Sections of a Calculus. Mixed Phosphates, with animal matter and a little Uric Acid; the grey veins in it, Urate of Ammonia. From the bladder of a man after death. The bladder is preserved in Series XXIX, No. 2433. 182. Sections of a Calculus, composed of mixed Phosphates with Uric Acid, Urate of Ammonia and animal matter. 183. Section of a Calculus. The white portion is composed of Fusible Calculus. The grey layers of Urate of Ammonia and animal matter. 184. Fragments of a Calculus, composed of Phosphate of Lime, with a small portion of Phosphate of Magnesia and Ammonia, slightly fusible. Analysis by Dr. Hue. From the bladder of a man 37 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Vincent. 185. Fragments of Calculus. Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia with Phos- phate of Lime; and small quantities of Carbonate of Lime and Urate of Ammonia. It contains small particles of a bright red colour, the nature of which is uncertain. From the bladder of a man 30 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Stanley. 186. Calculous Matter, consisting chiefly of the Phosphates, removed after death from the bladder of a man, aged 39. The patient, a sailor, had retention, followed by extravasation of urine four vears before death Fistulous openings m the perineum remained, and signs of the existence of calculus ensued about a year before death. tuuo Presented by H. Snowden, Esq. Ur[na/y Calculus, from a boy aged 10 years. It is composed of Calcium Phosphate and Carbonate, with a little Phosphate of Magnesia and Ammonia The peculiar shape of the concretion appears to be due to the union of two oval Calculi at their ends. 188. Calculi removed from the bladder and urethra of an elderly gentleman The upper calculus filled the membranous and bulbous portions of the urethra • the lower, which has been divided, was in the bladder. The external crust of the stone 2 m 2