456 DISEASES OF THE VAGINA AND EXTERNAL ORGANS OF 3024. A Pendulous Tumour, which was attached to a labium by a narrow pedicle. The surface is covered by a mass of pedunculated lobules and folds. The tumour is composed of firm fibro-cellular tissue, from which a large amount of serous fluid exuded on section. The specimen was removed from a young woman aged 21. It had been growing six years. A microscopic section is preserved, No. 132.—See Lucas Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 345. 3025. A large Fibro-cellular Tumour, which was attached by a broad pedicle to the left labium of a woman, aged 35. It had existed for ten years. Three years previous to its removal the woman contracted syphilis, since which time it had rapidly enlarged. xxxu. 80 3026. Section of a Large Tumour, which formed within a labium pudendi. It consists throughout of a tough and compact substance, with closely interwoven fibres, like indurated cellular tissue. xxxv. 19 The tumour was removed from a lady, 28 years old. It had been observed four years ; had given no pain, and interrupted no function, though it was twice as large as au adult's head. It commenced its growth at the lower part of the left labium, and extended gradually along the buttock, and over the os coccygis, forming a pendulous mass rather broader than the two thighs. In removing it, the anterior portion of the tumour was found to extend along the side of the vagina : it was cut off, and a portion was left behind, which again grew to a mass about one-third of the size of that which was removed. A second operation was therefore performed two years after the first; and the whole tumour being extirpated, the patient com- pletely recovered. She remains well to this time, eighteen years after the second operation. The case is related by Sir W. Lawrence, Bart., in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xvii, p. 11, London, 1832. 3027. A Fibrous Tumour, removed from the wall of the vagina by the side of the clitoris, of a woman, 22 years old. xxxu. 86 3028. A Flask-shaped Fibro-cellular Tumour, pendulous from the right wall of the vagina and right nympha. xxxv. 71 The patient was 34 years old, and had noticed the disease for three or four years. It began as a tumour projecting into the vagina from beneath its external wall, and in this situation acquired a large size before it protruded externally. Its protrusion occurred ten days before its removal, and was followed by very quick enlargement, probably because of the inflammatory swelling. It was loosely connected with the surrounding tissues, and was easily removed. There was no return of the disease within two years and a half of the operation. 3029. A small Tumour, having in section a fibrous appearance, removed from the anterior wall of the vagina. Histologically it is composed of fibrous tissue intermixed with a large proportion of organic muscular fibre, Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 133. 3030. A large cluster of Polypoid Growths, removed from the nymphse and walls of the vagina of a child. The largest growth is of oval shape, and nearly three inches in its chief diameter ; the others are various in size and shape; some spheroidal, many pyriform, and the smallest not more than one or two lines in length. They are grouped without order; the largest is attached to the upper wall of the vagina and to the nymphae, and at its upper part is traversed by the urethra ; the others were attached to different parts of the vagina. In minute structure all appeared to be composed of very fine fibro-cellular con- nective tissue; the largest was soft, elastic, opaque-white; the others, more like gelatinous polypi of the nose, were nearly pellucid, succulent, pale-yellowish, purple-pink, and white in various shades. At birth, a growth, " like a bunch of small grapes," was observed projecting from the vulva. It appeared to be con- nected with the right wall of the vagina, and, when the child was six weeks old, was removed by ligature. It was, probably, soon reproduced, but the next growth was confined within the vagina, and did not protrude till the child was three years old. It was tied round what appeared to be its base, and sloughed