410 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. birth ; but had been insane (in consequence, it was believed, of a blow on the head) for three years before his death. A drawing of the recent specimen is preserved, No. 396. Presented by J. R. Diamond, Esq. Vide Nos. 3321 to 3324, Series L. EPITHELIOMA, AND OTHER MALIGNANT GROWTHS. 2712. A Hand, with part of the Fore-arm, removed on account of extensive ulceration of an epitheliomatous character, which appears to have commenced in the skin. xi. 7 2713. Portion of Skin from the outer and back part of the wrist, on which there is a large, o^al, epitheliomatous ulcer, with hard sinuous, everted edges, and covered by granulations. The cancerous disease extended to the ligament of the first joint of the thumb. XI. 27 The patient, a man 80 years old, recovered after amputation of the fore-arm. 2714. Portion of Integument from the back of the arm of a woman, aged 35. It is infiltrated throughout with cancer, and in the centre of the growth there is a clot of effused blood. The growth had been observed for some weeks and was the seat of intense pain. The whole of the integuments and other tissues of the fore-arm were congenitally hypertrophied. xi. 46 2715. Portion of a Scalp, which was removed by operation. A circumscribed growth of white colour, and dense texture, with an ulcerated surface, originating in the skin, has extended to its adherent and free surfaces. xi. 25 2716. Portion of Skin, with a large lobulated, melanotic growth, which was believed to have originated in the interior of an encysted tumour. xi. 8 2717. A small Warty Growth from the Scalp, pigmented in the centre; it was removed after existing eighteen months; reproduced at the end of six; again removed, the patient remaining well at the expiration of one year and a-half. xi. 41 2718. Portion of a Scalp, in the substance of which there are several small, circumscribed, deposits of soft cancer. xi. 10 The same patient had a medullary tumour in the mediastinum ; the heart is in Series VII, No. 1291. 2719. Portions of Skin containing nodules of carcinoma. xi. 45 From the patient from whom Specimens No. 2318 in Series XXVI, and No. 2327 in Series XXVII were taken. RODENT ULCER. 2720. Portion of Integument removed from over the upper dorsal part of the spine. It presents a nearly circular ulcer, with somewhat sinuous margins, and between two and three inches in diameter. The surface of the ulcer is unequal, and covered with granulations, which, during life, were pale and rusty-pink, firm to the touch, and, in parts, warty. Its base is firm, its borders slightly raised ; the tissues beneath it, even to the depth of the trapezius muscle and the vertebral spines, were indurated and confused. On microscopic examination, the diseased parts showed no signs of cancerous structure, but the constituents of ordinary granulations and thickened connective tissue. xi. 39 The patient was a cook, 40 years old. The disease was of ten years' duration, and had been variously treated without any advantage. The wound of tbe operation did not completely heal; and two years afterwards, ulceration similar to that which is here shown bad reached a yet greater extent. VASCULAR GROWTHS—N-ffiVI, &c. 2721. A large portion of Skin, removed from a woman's back. It presents an