134 INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). of displacement exists as the result of the injury, which, during life, was indicated solely by pain, and inability to move the part affected. in. 125 The fracture was consequent upon a fall on the palm of the hand. The man received, at the same time, such severe internal injuries, that he died a few hours after his admission. 926. Portions of a Radius and Ulna. The radius has been fractured a little more than an inch above its carpal end. The union is firm, bat there is a prominent angle on the dorsal aspect in the line of the fracture, and an elevation of new bone on the corresponding part of the palmar surface, where it is probable that the palmar margin of the upper fragment was driven into the cancellous tissue of the lower one. The triangular fibro-cartilage was almost completely separated from the radius. Ill, 89 A Cast of the wrist is preserved, No. 25. 927. Section of the Radius of a young man, which has been fractured three- quarters of an inch above its carpal articular surface. The dorsal margin of the upper fragment is driven into the cancellous tissue of the lower one : their palmar margins are in contact, but a projecting angle is here formed, in the front of the wrist, at the line of fracture. The fracture is united, and new bone is formed in the angle between the displaced dorsal margins of the fragments. in. 78 928. Sections of a Radius. At its carpal end there has been a transverse fracture immediately above the line of the epiphysis, and the posterior or dorsal margin of the upper fragment has been driven into the cancellous tissue of the lower one. The palmar margin of the upper fragment projects forwards, or in the direction of the palm ; and the dorsal surface of the lower fragment projects far backwards, similarly to that in No. 927, but differently from that in No. 926, The fracture is united, and a buttress of new bone has formed on the dorsal and radial sides of the displaced portions. III. 94 929. A Radius and Ulna. The radius has been broken about three-quarters of an inch above its lower end. The fracture is united, with the lower portion of bone displaced towards the radial and dorsal aspect of the upper portion. In consequence of the shortening of the radius, induced by this displacement, a new articular surface has been formed on the lower end of the ulna, by the growth of a half-ring of bone upwards from the margin of the surface by which it before articulated with the radius. The carpal articular surface of the ulna thus projects far beyond that of the radius. C. 31 (In Case H.) 930. Portion of a Radius, which has been fractured about an inch above its lower end. The fracture has united with a considei'able overlapping of the ends of the bone, the palmar margin of the upper portion projecting with a sharp edge towards the palm, while its posterior or dorsal margin is driven into the cancellous tissue of the lower portion. The lower portion with the carpal articular surface of the radius is consequently deflected strongly backwards, or towards the dorsal region of the fore-arm. C. 35 (In Case H.) Vide Nos. 924, 1030. Separation of Lower Epiphyses. 931. The carpal extremities of the Left Radius and Ulna. The portion of the radius is separated from the shaft at the line of the epiphysis, and a fracture extends into the wrist-joint. The lower end of the ulna is fractured above the epiphysial line, and the styloid process is broken off. From a bov, aged 14 years, who fell from a window, and died from injuries to the head. (In Case H.) 932. The lower extremities of the Right Radius and Ulna, The radius is frac-