187 PERICARDIUM, AND OF THE HEART. about a quarter of an inch in diameter, the margins of which are smooth and round. A. portion of white glass is passed through this aperture. The muscular substance of the ventricle immediately around the aperture has disappeared, and is replaced by a dense white tissue. The rest of the heart is healthy; but its exterior is covered by false membrane by which it adhered to the parietal pericar- dium. It may be presumed that there was in this case a rupture, or an ulcera- tion, through the wall of the left ventricle; that the blood was prevented from being effused into the cavity of the pericardium, by adhesions previously formed between its two surfaces; and that these adhesions, and the peri- cardium for a considerable distance around the aperture, were stretched by the force of the blood, so as to form the sac, in nearly the same manner as a false aneurism is formed by the distension of the sheath of an artery after the destruction of the coats. xii. 58 From a woman 37 years old, who had had syphilis for many years in its worst form. She had long been under observation at the Penitentiary; but had presented no distinct sign of disease of the heart. She died with dysentery and slight bronchitis. Presented by Dr. Baly. 1263. A Left Ventricle and Auricle. In the boundary between the auricle and ventricle the wall of the heart is dilated into a pouch, like an aneurism, which extends round the outer part of the base of the left ventricle, from the anterior to the posterior margins of the septum. The mouth of this pouch is just below, and partly covered by, the mitral valve: its cavity is half filled by concentric layers of fibrin. The cavity of the left ventricle is much enlarged; its walls are thickened; and its lining membrane, near the aneurismal sac, is thick, rough, and has yellow deposits in it. The exterior of the heart is covered by adhesions, which fixed it closely to the inner surface of the pericardium. The mitral valve and its tendinous cords are thickened and opaque, especially in those parts which are stretched over the mouth of the aneurismal sac. xn. 28. The patient was a man between 40 and 50 years old. He had long suffered with signs of diseased heart. 1264. An Aneurism, the size of a large hen's egg, opening into the left ventricle at the very apex; the opening is about the size of a threepenny piece, and its edges as smooth and as densely fibrous as a valvular orifice. The aneurism itself is divided by a septiim into two parts, which communicate with each other immediately below the opening into the ventricle. The walls of the sac are thin and fibrous, except at the part where there is a thick layer of laminated fibrin. There were exceedingly dense adhesions all around the aneurism. The cause of death was general dropsy associated with contracted kidneys. From a person aged 33 years.—See Post Mortem Book, Case 197, May 17th, 1871. 1265. An Aneurism at the Apex of the Left Ventricle. The pericardium is uni- versally adherent; the heart of great size, most of the swelling being formed by the sac of the aneurism, which would hold a cocoa nut. The aneurismal sac communicated with the left ventricle by a small opening the size of a split pea. " The patient, an old soldier, when first seen in October, 1872, complained of extreme breath- lessness on slight exertion, and a sense of tightness across the chest. He referred his illness to a strain experienced a month previously in an attempt to lift a henry package when ho felt something give way in his chest, and fell down in a severe faint. The heart's action was tumultuous on slight disturbance ; the cardiac dulness was extended downwards and to the ri^f and there was a double murmur at the apex. His symptoms were relieved under treatment and he was able to work as a carman until October, 1874, when he died with pleuritic effusion — 19th 1874 ^ ^ Path0l°9ical Society> voL xxyii> 1875> or Luke Ward Book, October 1266. A Left Ventricle ruptured at its Apex ; a quill is introduced into the