INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 124 irregularly excavated as if by ulceration; the walls of the remainder of this portion are very thin, light, and dry, and in many places perforated by absorp- tion, i. 265 The child died with disease of the mesenteric glands. The left tibia and fibula were two inches longer than the right. Presented by William Taylor, Esq. 855. A Knee-Joint, from a person who fractured the patella many years before death, and recovered complete use of the limb, although no union of the frag- ments took place. In the extended position of the limb, the fragments of the patella are about four inches apart; their broken surfaces are turned obliquely forwards, and are smooth, and thinly covered with fibrous tissue; their posterior borders are tightly connected with the synovial and fibrous capsules of the joint, which hold tliem in their places; there is no direct or new-fotmied bond of union between them. in. 123 856. The Femur of a Sheep fractured, long before death, through the upper part of its shaft. The fractured surfaces, though adapted to one another, have not united ; but new bone is abundantly formed ujoon and around them. III. 117 UNUNITED FRACTURES ON WHICH AN OPERATION FOR REPAIR HAS BEEN PERFORMED. 857. Ununited fracture of the Femur treated by resection of the broken ends, and the insertion of steel pegs. The holes for the pegs are increased in size, and are surrounded by new periosteal bone. The fragments could not be kept sufficiently at rest, and no union took place. The fracture was simple, but very oblique. It was treated in the Hospital throughout; at the end of nine months resection was performed; two months later the limb was amputated. The knee-joint, which had been kept in the extended position by a weight for a considerable time, is anchylosed. The cartilages are ulcerated in several places.—See Lawrence Ward Booh, vol. iii, p. 33, and Path. Soc. Trans., vol. xxv, p. 212, 1874. 858. The Shaft of a right Tibia and Fibula. At the junction of the lower with the upper two-thirds, the bones are connected only by ligamentous tissue, but are in good position. Both bones are ill-developed. The tibia is flattened from side to side ; the whole bone is bent forwards and the anterior margin projects in a prominent curved spine. The tissue of the shaft appears thick- ened. The lower third of the tibia tapers gradually to its junction with the upper two-thirds, where it is extoemely small The fibula is very slender and flattened. Two pieces of glass rod are inserted through the junction of the two portions of the tibia, to mark the holes into which wire pins were inserted in the operation of osteotomy. Two of the apertures are much enlarged from absorption of the bone. The bones were removed by amputation from a young man, aged 21 years, who was ad- mitted to the Hospital with a congenital deformity of the leg. The limb was bent forwards and outwards, and the foot turned inwards, giving the appearance of talipes varus. An un- united congenital fracture was diagnosed, which was now yielding. Osteotomy was performed, a wedge-shaped piece of bone being removed, and the fragments were wired together. A month after the operation firm union had apparently taken place, but the uniting material subse- quently yielded, and amputation was finally performed below the knee.—See Abernethy Ward Book, vol. vi. 859. Part of a right Femur just above its middle, showing the extremities of an ununited fracture. There are deposits of new bone scattered over either portion, the medulla being closed by a compact layer of dense osseous tissue. The apertures indicate the spots where ivory pegs were introduced. The depressions are lined with new bone from which spicula irregularly project. C. 121