INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 128 siderable extent of both portions, is roughened and tubereulated by deposit of new bone. From a man, aged 37, who, nine months before his death, fell off a van and injured his head. A week before his death he had an epileptic fit, and a succession of fits a few hours before he died. (In Case H.) 879. Posterior portion of the right Parietal Bone of a boy aged 3 years, showing a compound depressed fracture of the skull. The small portion of bone sus- pended was detached and found lying on the dura mater. Death took place from meningitis.—See Laivrence Ward Book, vol. ii, p. 172. 880. Portion of the Parietal Bone of a child, on which a sharp piece of a chimney- pot fell from a house-top. It made a circular aperture in the skull, half an inch in diameter, and forced the bone which was included within this circle into the substance of the brain. Portions of the bone thus driven in remain attached to the margin of the aperture. III. 116 The child remained for three weeks with scarcely any of the usual symptoms of injury of the brain. Inflammation of the brain then ensued, and soon ended fatally. 881. Part of the Parietal Bone of an infant, with an effusion of blood between the skull and dura mater. This effusion, as well as a similar effusion between the skull and the pericranium, appeared to have proceeded (at least in part) from a fissure, about an inch long, through the parietal bone, at the margin of the effusion. The blood forms a circumscribed oval layer, about half an inch thick, and is coagulated. Thin plates of porous new bone have been formed in the dura mater around part of the margin elevated by the effused blood, as well as in distinct patches nearer to the centre of the part thus elevated. The bone appears to be formed between the two layers of the dura mater: a portion of the inner layer is reflected from the surface of the new bone over which it lay, and is indicated by a bristle. A small quantity of new bone is also formed on the inner surface of the skull, near the margin of the effused blood : but there is no appearance of any being formed beneath the blood. vi. 71 The infant was twenty-five clays old, when it died with convulsions, which had commenced two clays before its death. Previous to these it had been healthy, with the exception of a slight diarrhoea The case is related by Dr. West, and the preparation is engraved, in the Medico-Ch irm-fjical Transact ions, vol. xxviii, p. 397. London, 1845. Presented by Dr. "West. 882. The right Occipital Portion of the posterior Fossa of the base of the Skull from a girl aged 9 years, showing a circular depressed fracture, the size of a shilling. The onter table, though depressed, is apparently entire, with the exception of a fissure, which extends along one-third of the margin of the depression. The inner table is fissured in three or four places. The fracture was not detected during life. 883. A Skull-Cap, in which a fracture with depression of the left parietal bone occurred many years before death. The fracture comprised a circle of bone, an inch in diameter, which was starred at its centre and surrounded by a nearly circular fissure. The fracture is united, but the depression still remains; the centre of the depressed portion is nearly half an inch below the level of the contiguous internal surface of the skull. c. 43 (In Case H.) 884. A Skull, showing a deep funnel-shaped indentation with rounded edges which penetrated the bone obliquely at a point posterior to the parietal eminence. A portion of the internal table, as large as a crown piece, has been detached, but is now imperfectly united to the skull. For a considerable distance around the