SERIES XXXV. ♦ DISEASES AND INJUKIES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. HYPERTROPHIES. CORNS (Clavus). 2687. The Second Toe from each Foot. On the anterior extremity of one there is a large corn. Over the interphalangeal joint of the other there is a corn, and beneath this a bursa. The extensor tendon of these toes was contracted, and had long drawn them up, so that the anterior extremity of the one, and the articulation of the other, were subject to greatly increased pressure. They caused, in their deformed condition, so much pain, that they were amputated. 2688. Portion of a Foot, upon which there are two corns. The cuticle has been separated. In each corn the cuticle is thick and horny ; and from one of them a short horny growth projects outwards. The cutis beneath the corns is thickened and very vascular. xi. 21 2689. Section of a Foot, upon which a corn was situated over the ball of the great toe. The cuticle is removed to show that the disease is confined to a thickening of that part. The cutis beneath the corn is natural, except that its vascularity is increased, and its surf ace impressed. xi. 4 ICTHYOSIS. 2690. Horny epidermal masses from a case of Icthyosis Cornea. The Casts 146 and 147 were taken from the same patient.—Vide also Cast No. 145. HORNS. 2691. A curved Horny Growth, with the portion of Scalp from which it grew. A section of the growth at its base shows that it here consists of a soft white substance, which, in the recent state, resembled the contents of a cutaneous encysted tumour; the rest of the growth is hard, coarsely fibrous, fasciculated, and of a dull greyish colour. xi. 16 2692. Portions of the Horny Growth, which were removed at various times before the removal of that last described. xi. 17 The patient was an old woman. The horn had been growing for some years before it was removed. The patient herself removed the portions contained in No. 2692. 2693. A Horn-like Growth divided by a vertical section, which was removed from the thigh of a woman, aged 30. It is composed of laminae of condensed epithelium, which have separated since the specimen has been placed in spirit, so as to show the structure more plainly. It had existed for ten years, xi. 42