DISEASES OK BONES. 21 followed by constitutional disturbance, and later by the formation of abscesses, about tbe left side of the face. He died of pyaemia. The disease appears to have originated in inflammation about the fang of a tooth.—See Kenlon Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 21. 152. A Lower Jaw, which, with the exception of the ascending rami, has undergone Necrosis. Considerable portions of the alveolar process have been destroyed by caries and necrosis. From a boy, aged 3 years. A fortnight before his admission to the hospital, a swelling of the left side of the face was observed, which gradually iucreased. The mother stated that he had been playing with a cat, which had to be killed on account of a foetid discharge from its nose. On admission there was a more or less circumscribed swelling of the alveolar process of the left side of his lower jaw, with some ulceration of its surface, having a phagedsenic appearance, and foetid discharge. The swelling gradually extended until the whole of the lower jaw was affected, and there was inuch brawny swelling of the face. Finally a slough appeared on the left cheek, which penetrated into the mouth. The child died exhausted seven weeks after the first appearance of the disease, believed to be Cancrum Oris.—See Lucas Word Book, vol. vi, p. 396, and Bath. Soc. Trans., 1881. 153. A large portion of the Upper Jaw-bone of a child, exfoliated after Cancruin Oris. i. 227 154. A Lower Jaw, nearly the whole body of which suffered Necrosis after the ;u I ministration of a few grains of calomel in a case of fever. The dead bone is in part separated, and a small quantity of new bone is deposited around it. i. 102 155. A Lower Jaw which was separated after Necrosis ; from a female 20 years old. Previous to the necrosis the whole of the jaw had been covered by a formation of porous, hard, greyish, new bone; and this, which extends even over the condyles and coronoid processes, perished with the original substance of the jaw, and was exfoliated with it. i. 168 The disease commenced six years before the removal of the jaw. In the operation for removal the middle of the jaw was cut from the rest and extracted first: one lateral half was removed the next day; and the other, three weeks afterwards. The wound made in the operation, and the sinuses which had led to the diseased bone, healed quickly, and the patient recovered completely ; regaining the power of mastication with those of the lower teeth which remained imbedded in the gum after the removal of the jaw. Presented by J. O. Perry, Esq.; by whom a further account of the case is given in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxi, p. 290. 156. A Clavicle in a state of Necrosis. . L 321 The two portions which are fastened together were separately removed, at an interval of a few months, from a boy aged 12. The death of the bone followed an attack of glanders contracted from a diseased horse. Subsequently an entire new bone was gradually formed. ' Presented by Mr. Barrow. 157. The lower half of a Humerus, which was amputated for Acute Necrosis. The outer surface of the bone is rough and "worm-eaten," especially in the proximity of a fracture, which passes obliquely through the middle of the specimen. The medullary canal contained pus. 1 Er01? ffm,an' aged 45 years' who was admired to the hospital with a swelling around the lower half of the humerus, which had commenced five weeks previously. Spontaneous frac- ture ot the bone occurred after his admission. The nature of the swelling and history of the case gave rise to the opinion that the humerus was the seat of a malignant tumour The necrosis appeared to have been due to diffuse periostitis and osteo-myelitis. The end of the humerus necrosed after amputation, necessitating re-amputation.-See Darker Ward Book, vol. v, p. 271. 158. Necrosis of the shaft of an Ulna, which was removed by operation after its separation from the epiphyses. ' y