DISEASES OF JOINTS. 95 the femur. The scar of an ulcerated aperture in the floor of the acetabulum is seen on the inner aspect of the innominate bone. (In Case G.) 652. The bones of a Hip-Joint, in which the head of the femur, after extensive ulceration, had been displaced upwards and backwards by the absorption of the margin of the acetabulum, and was then fixed by bony anchylosis. The acetabulum is tilled by bone, which has coalesced with a large growth of new bone from the lower surface of the neck of the femur. The ilium is thickened by ex- pansion of its walls, chiefly on its ventral aspect. The femur is in a position of flexion and extreme adduction. b. 1 (In Case G.) 653. The bones of a Hip-Joint, in which the head of the femur, after superficial ulceration, has been displaced on the posterior border of the acetabulum, and is there firmly united by bone. New bone has also been formed on all the adja- cent parts of the os innominatum. The acetabulum was deeply ulcerated. B. 4 (In Case G.) 654. The bones of a, Hip-Joint, exhibiting an osseous anchylosis of the head of the femur to the ilium, similar to that shown in the preceding specimen. A thin band of bone, half an inch wide, extends between the trochanter major and the upper part of the tuberosity of the ischium. B. 6 (In Case G.) 655. The left Knee-Joint of a woman, aged 27, in which disease had existed for seven years subsequent to an injury. The tibia and fibula have been slightly displaced outwards and backwards. The patella is rough from deposit of new bone, and is firmly united to the outer condyle of the femur. The tibia is united by bone to the femur. The natural structures of the joint have entirely disappeared. Here and there soft material existed between the ends of the bones similar to ordinary granulations. B. 59 (In Case G.) 656. Section of the bones of a Knee-Joint, exhibiting osseous anchylosis of their articular surfaces, with displacement of the tibia. B. 41 The other half of the joint is preserved in No. 639. (In Case G.) 657. The Bones of a Leg with the lower end of the Femur. The head of the tibia is fixed by firm osseous anchylosis to the articular surfaces of the femur and fibula. The shafts of the tibia and fibula are curved outwards. The wall of the tibia is irregularly thickened, and on the anterior and upper part, near the knee-joint, there is a rough and porous elevated surface of new bone. 'Over this surface there had long been an ulcer extending down to the bone. b. 49 (In Case G.) 658. The bones of a Knee-Joint, in which the inner condyle of the femur was united by bone to the inner border of the articular surface of the tibia. The remainder of both the articular surfaces appears healthy. The bones are light. b. 24 (In Case G.) 6519'.A *fction °j ?ones of an Ankle-Joint. There is complete osseous anchv- losis between the tibia and fibula and the astragalus. From a woman aged 23, who had suffered for seven years from strumous disease of the ankle ami tarsus. The disease had never been either acute or very extensive, but it, was suffi! cient to have prevented her walking on the limb. Amputation through the lower third of the