DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE n>4 completely blocking up the canal of the vessel; but there is no appearance of disease in the coats of the artery. It is believed that the fibrin obstructing the artery was detached from the valves of the heart, and carried in the stream ot blood to the spot at which it was arrested. XIL °" The patient, 24 years old, had suffered for two months with diarrhoea and rheumatic pains, when he was suddenly attacked with severe pain in the region of the heart, and palpitation. These were relieved, but a fortnight after their commencement he suddenly became hemiplegic on the left side. He remained with impaired sensation, and complete loss of voluntary motion, to the time of his death, about three weeks after the hemiplegic attack. He had also sloughs on his back, and swelling of the feet and legs, and Ins femoral veins were hard, cord- ^BwraSSe of the brain was remarkably pale and soft. Clots of old formation existed in the left lateral sinus and internal jugular vein. The tricuspid valve was covered with fibrinous deposits like those above described. The iliac and femoral veins were blocked up by old clots without disease of their coats. Masses of fibrinous deposits were found m the lower lobes ot both lun^s and the corresponding branches of the pulmonary arteries were completely plugged Witfl old coaenda. Fibrinous deposits, also, variously changed, existed in the spleen ami kidneys. A fuller report of the case is given by Dr. Kirkes, in the Medico-Chirurgtcal Transactions, vol. xxx, p. 293. 1300. A Heart, of which a great part of the mitral valve is covered with masses of fibrin, heaped up in the shape of large warty excrescences on its auricular surface, and thence extending over part of the lining of the posterior wall ot the left auricle. The masses of fibrin are of various shapes and lengths ; some are nearly half an inch long. They are pretty firmly attached to the thick and lengthened surface of the valve, yet portions could be readily detached, and crumbled under pressure. Several of the masses extend among the tendinous cords of the valves; and one of the cords, thickened like the rest, is ulcerated across, and portions of fibrin adhere to each of its separated ends The left ventricle is much hypertrophied; the right side of the heart, and the other valves are healthy. xn- 87 The patient, a thin, pale woman, 24 years old, had sudden hemiplegia about three months before death At the time of the seizure she appeared m tolerable health, but had been Bubiect to great privations. The hemiplegia appeared to be due to detachment of portions ot the fibrin from the surface of the valve; one of which, being carried on by the circulating blood had become tightly impacted in the left middle cerebral artery, obliterating its canal, and inducing softening of the left corpus striatum and thalamus opticus. The branches of the artery beyond the obstruction were reduced to firm, narrow, yellowish cords, which were im- bedded in softened cerebral substance. A similar but smaller portion of fibrin was found m the ri<dit middle cerebral artery, but did not quite block up its canal. Old clots of blood obstructed also the right external iliac artery and the right femoral vein. A fuller report of the case, by Dr. Kirkes, is in the essay above referred to. ULCERATION OF THE VALVES. 1301. A portion of the Heart, with the origin of the Aorta. The aortic valves are extensively ulcerated, and upon the ulcerated surface a large amount of fibrin has been deposited. Attached to the anterior cusp by a long narrow pedicle (the remains of the free margin of the valve) is an irregular mass of fibrin the size of a large nut. This mass in the recent state was continuous with a clot, which extended along the aorta, into the innominate and to the left subclavian arteries. The wall of the left ventricle is hypertrophied. The pericardium is roughened by recent lymph. From the body of a man, aged 36 years. After suffering from rheumatic pains in the limbs for three weeks, and pains in the chest for six days, he came (walking) to the out- patients' room of the Hospital. He was admitted ; and the next morning, having gone to the water-closet he was soon afterwards found dead there. 1302. A Heart showing the condition known as Ulcerative Endo-carditis. There is a small, oval^ulcer, near the base of the aortic cusp of the mitral valve; also a similar ulcer on the opposite side of the cusp : the small cusp is