DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE 202 that there are but two instead of three valves. The mitral valve is healthy. The left ventricle is dilated, but the walls are not thickened. xti. 11 1352. Aortic Valves united amongst themselves, displaced, and drawn down towards the ventricle. Their tissue is thickened and studded with nodular cal- careous deposits. The aortic orifice is reduced to a narrow permanent chink. 39 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1353. A similar specimen. The diseased aortic valves contrast with the adjacent semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery. 42 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. For other specimens of Diseases of the Aortic Valves, see Nos. 1289, 1299,1301, 1302, 1303, 1305 to 1308, 1310, 1311, 1313, 1315, 1319, 1324, 1357, 1358. VALVULAR ANEURISM. 1354. Heart of a woman, aged 51 years, with aneurism of the mitral valve. The mitral valve is healthy at its attached and free borders, but in the centre of the laro-e (anterior) cusp is a circular aperture half an inch in diameter, leading into a sac, which projects into the auricle, and is formed by a dilatation of the layer of endocardium on the auricular aspect of the valve. The ventricular layer appears to cease just within the margin of the aperture. The aneurism is of conical shape, seated obliquely on the auricular surface of the valve. The largest side, that next the free border of the valve, is an inch and a quarter in length, the shortest, next the attached. border, a quarter of an inch. Its diameter at the base is three-quarters of an inch. At the apex is an aperture about a quarter of an inch in diameter, with an irregular fringed margin. There is a second minute orifice on one side, midway between base and apex. On the side of the auricle, at a part corresponding to the apex of the sac, is a white-patch. In the recent state the cavity was filled with coagula, partly dark and soft, partly firm and laminated. Both apertures, but especially the auricular, were fringed with fibrous vegetations. The free border of the aortic valves is' slightly thickened, and in one of them is a small round aperture almost in the situation of the central fibrous nodule. The heart weighed 13 ounces. The woman had enjoyed good health until ten months before death, when she had a severe attack of rheumatic fever. For the last two months only of her life she suffered from symp- toms of disease of the heart, such as dypsnoea, lividity of surface, and anasarca. There was a harsh systolic murmur at the apex and at the angle of the left scapula. 1355 A Mitral Valve, with some of the adjacent parts. The substance of the valve is generally somewhat thickened, and the middle of its left portion has been distended into a small bilocular pouch, like an aneurism. The pouch pro- jects into the cavity of the left auricle; it is about three-quarters of an inch hiffh and half an inch wide: its orifice on the ventricular surface of the valve is about a quarter of an inch in diameter. It has burst by a large irregular rent in one of its lateral walls. The aortic valves have numerous warty growths on their outer surface and borders, but are otherwise healthy. xn. 62 1356. A Heart, showing an aneurism projecting from the auricular surface of the'laro-e flap of the mitral valve. It is about the size of a marble, and has ruptured at the summit, where clots project from the opening. See St. Bartholomew's Eospital Reports, vol. xi, 1875, "Report from Post Mortem Room." 1357 Portion of a Heart. The mitral valve is thickened, the flaps are adherent, and the orifice slit-like. On the inner flap, projecting towards the auricle, there is a small aneurismal sac with very thick walls, which is perforated by