300 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE INTESTINES. from the right inguinal region. The portion of glass marks the track of a large abscess, which at one extremity communicated by two apertures with the intestine, and at the other end opened by extensive sloughing through the groin and scrotum. The edges of the apertures in the intestine are soft and shreddy : the parts adjacent to them are not thicker or harder than usual: but near the uppermost of them is a circular spot, in which the coats of the intestine are thin and soft; at this part the mucous membrane only remains: its inner surface is smooth and polished. XVI- 70 The patient was a man 38 years old. The history of the case, as well as the appearances here shown, make it probable that there was first an abscess in the iliac fossa, which, opening into the cajcum, permitted the escape of faeces, and sloughing of the tissue extending from the iliac fossa through the groin into the scrotum followed. 1960. A Cfficum, with a portion of the abdominal walls from the right inguinal region. The anterior part of the csecam is united to the peritoneum lining the adjacent muscles; at this part also the mucous membrane of the caecum, is removed, and irregular fungous growths occupy its place. A fistulous canal, through which a quill is passed, extends from the cavity of the caecum through the middle of the growths, and through the adjacent parts of the abdominal walls. xvi. 28 The patient was a man 35 years old. An abscess in the groin had existed, it was believed, previous to the ulceration through the caecum. There was similar ulceration, with fungous growths, in parts of the small intestine. 1961. A Caecum, with part of the Colon. There is a round ulcerated aperture through that portion of the wall of the caecum, which was connected with the iliac fossa. On the exterior of the wall, the margins of the aperture are uneven and ragged; on its interior they are smooth and clean. The portion of tissue which is attached to the exterior of the caecum around the aperture was part of the wall of a large abscess. The rest of the mucous membrane and the other coats of the caecum are healthy. 83 The patient, an elderly man, had undergone the operation of lithotomy a week before death. Suppuration by the sides of the bladder and rectum, and all round the cavity of the pelvis, followed ; and, extending into the iliac fossa under the pelvic fascia, some of the pus discharged itself through the fascia into the caecum a short time before death. 1962. The sigmoid flexure of a Colon, into the cavity of which an abscess opened from without. The abscess was seated in the cellular tissue connecting the outer part of the intestine with the wall of the abdomen, and a part of its cavity which is very irregular in form, is shown at the back of the preparation. Portions of whalebone are passed through two short fistulous canals by which the abscess opened into the intestine. The apertures through the mucous membrane are oval and regular: their borders are sharp and even ; and there is no thickening or other morbid change in the adjacent coats of the intestine. xvi. 73 The disease was not observed during the life of the patient, who was a man about 30 years old, and died of pulmonary phthisis. The rest of the intestinal canal was healthy. ULCERATION OF THE INTESTINE. FOLLICULAR AND SIMPLE ULCERATION. 1963. Portion of a Colon generally thickened, and exhibiting numerous minute ulcers of its mucous membrane. xvi. 29 1964 Portion of an Ileum, exhibiting a broad, smooth-based ulcer of its mucous membrane, and a portion of omentum firmly adherent to its exterior in the situation of the ulcer. xv1, ^