172 DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OP THE SPINE. 1166. Eight half of the preceding Specimen. It shows the almost complete repair that has taken place in the bones and soft textures of the spine ; and the disintegration resulting from the injury of the cord. Prom a spare man, aged 48 years, who fell backwards on to his shoulders from a fcaffold about six feet from the ground. A well-marked displacement between the 7th and 8th dorsal vertebra was observable on his admission into the Hospital; the 7th with the bones above appeared to be carried forwards, producing an unnatural groove from the 4th vertebra to the broken 7th spinous process. The superior articular processes of the 8th could be leit. ±ne ordinary svmptoms of lesion of the corresponding part of the spinal cord were present. The patient, under chloroform, was subjected to extension by means of pulleys with the result of replacing the bones in their normal position, and entirely removing the distortion. He died from exhaustion, consequent on the paralysis, nine weeks afler the injury. 1167. Sections of a Spine, in which it is probable that there had been a fracture and dislocation of the first lumbar and the last dorsal vertebra*. The first lumbar vertebra, unchanged in texture, but deprived of the fore part ot the upper margin of its body, is thrown backwards, so that its fractured anterior maro-in is placed under the posterior margin of the body of the twelfth dorsal vertebra. It appears as if the last dorsal vertebra with the superior portion of the spine, had been pushed forwards and downwards, breaking oft and sliding over the upper and anterior margin of the first lumbar. In this position the two vertebras are firmly fixed by bone deposited in front of the angle formed by their bodies. At the angle thus formed the body of the first lumbar vertebra projects posteriorly into the spinal canal, reducing it to a fourth of its natural diameterf A distance of an inch intervenes between the spinous processes of the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebras. On the right side their corresponding articular surfaces appear to have been separated, and re-united by bone; on the left side the inferior articular process of the last dorsal vertebra is wanting: but there are appearances as if it had been united to the posterior part of the body of the displaced first lumbar vertebra: it was probably detached in the dissection. (In Case C.)