267 PLEURA, BRONCHIAL TUBES, AND LUNGS. EXCESSIVE PIGMENTATION. 1745. Portion, of Lung, with small particles of pigment diffused through its substance. XIV* ^7 Presented by Dr. Norris. HYDATID. 1746. The lower portion of a Lung, showing a hydatid lying immediately beneath the surface. Vide No. 1688. DISEASES OF THE PULMONARY ARTERIES. EMBOLISM AND THROMBOSIS. 1747. A portion of Lung, with the Pulmonary Artery laid open. One of the main branches of the pulmonary artery is obstructed by a large, firm, irregular, decolorised clot, extending to the termination of the branch, where a cavity containing broken down lung substance is seen, lined by a distinct opaque membrane. The lungs were emphysematous, dotted with tubercles, and scarred by old cicatrices. From a man, aged 65 years. He had been troubled with cough and shortness of breath for years, and was admitted to the Hospital six weeks before his death for apparent obstruction of the veins of the left leg. By rest he seemed to recover. After leaving the Hospital the symp- toms of obstruction—swelling and pain—returned, and soon sudden and distressing dyspnoea came on, of which he died. For other specimens of Embolism and Thrombosis of Pulmonary Artery, vide Series VIII, Nos. 1562, 1563, 1564, 1566, 1567, 1568, 1572. 1748. Portions of the Left Lung of the man from whom Specimen 1595 in Series IX, was taken. Some of the larger branches of the pulmonary artery which have been laid open, show in their interior firm and partly decolorised clots. 1749. Portion of a Lung, in which the main division of the Pulmonary Artery is nearly filled by a firm, grumous, brown and red clot of blood, slightly adhering to its walls, and having all the characters of a clot formed before death. At its distal end the clot divides into four portions, which extend into and nearly fill as many branches of the pulmonary artery in which it lies. One of these portions is intimately united to the wall of the arterial branch in which it is contained. XIV 43 1750. Another portion of the same Lung. A bristle is passed beneath a narrow band, formed probably by the further organization of blood coagulated during life, within the branches of the pulmonary artery. One of two such bands is attached only at its ends to the inner surface of the branch of the artery : the other is attached by nearly the whole of one of its surfaces to the angle and adjacent parts of a large branching arterial trunk. The clots are firm and pale pink, and have completely coalesced with the wall of the artery. In some of the smaller branches of the artery there are short round grumous coao-nla, like those described in the last preparation. ° Xlv 49 The patient, a woman, 70 years old, died after suffering with an affection of the chest and oedema ot tbe lower extremities, for five weeks. Two days before her death she began to sink rapidly. Tbe case is related by Sir J. Paget, and the Specimen No. 1749 is figured in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxvii, p. 178, pi. iii, fig. 3. London, 1844. Drawings of this and the preceding specimen are preserved, Nos. 168, 169. 1751. Portion of a Lung. A firm clot fills the trunk and branches of the pulmonary artery. 1752. A similar specimen. This and the preceding were taken from the same case as Specimen No. 1569 in Series VIII.