DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. 453 3006. A mass of Epithelioma, together with the Os Uteri, and part of the cervix, removed by the erraseur. On the upper surface of the preparation, mar its centre, is a smooth, cup-shaped depression. This is termed by the reflexion of peritoneum from the bladder to the uterus, which was removed at the time of the operation. xxxii. 70 Vvom a married woman who had enjoyed good health uutil three months prior to the opera- tion. Her catamenia ceased and were replaced by repeated and profuse haemorrhages. There were also severe beariug-down pains, and a constant discharge of offensive mucus. The most careful examination of the growth was followed by severe bleeding. The operation became necessary on account of the extreme exhaustion which resulted from the discharges from the cancer. The patient^ recovered from the operation, but died subsequently with a return of the disease. Presented by Mr. John Nicholson. 3007. The Pelvic Organs of a woman, showing a cancerous ulceration, com- mencing probably in the cervix uteri, which has destroyed the greater portion of the cervix, the posterior wall of the bladder, and the upper portion of the vagina. The rectum is also involved in the morbid growth. xxxii. 70a CANCER OF THE CERVIX AND BODY OF THE UTERUS. 3008. A Uterus, in which the lower two-thirds of the walls are enlarged by the infiltration of a soft medullary substance. The natural texture of the organ can hardly be discerned. The disease forms a large spheroidal mass, of which the lower surface, projecting into the vagina, is ulcerated and flocculent. xxxn. 15 3009. A Uterus and Vagina. The cervix uteri and the upper part of the vagina are deeply ulcerated ; their remains are soft, broken, and flocculent, like the surface of a soft medullary tumour in which ulceration has taken place. xxxii. 19 Presented by Dr. Conquest. CANCER OF THE BODY OF THE UTERUS. 3010. An enormous cancerous enlargement of the body of the Uterus; without change of shape. The patient died of acute peritonitis.—Described in the Transactions of the Obstetrical Society of London, vol. xx, 1878. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3°\h £ ^r61?8,',the Cavity of wWch is dilated ^ a large, soft, broken, and shreddy Medullary Tumour. The tumour appears to have originated in the wall of the lower part of the uterus, and has extended from the anterior wall into the bladder; the space between the two organs, as well as a large portion of the cavity of the bladder, is filled by a similar substance. xxxii. 11 3012. A Uterus ; its interior, laid open from the anterior aspect, is rou^h from the presence of a cancerous deposit, portions of which had been removed during lite. 1 he encroachment of this deposit upon the walls can be traced alone the margin ot the incision, being most conspicuous towards the fundus Here somewhat to the right side, the entire uterine wall, infiltrated with the morbid growth, has softened, and to some extent has been completely removed leaving a large aperture by which the interior of the organ would have com' municated with the sac of the peritoneum, but for thS firm adhesions esZ T^e^i^^ °f ^ ™ The « «* »*r « attacl xxxii 59 3013. Uterus from a woman, aged 28, who died from faecal abscess. The uterus is greatly enlarged and its mucous membrane much altered in character having a papilliform almost warty appearance. The woman's illness com menced after a confinement between four or five months before death