DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE INTESTINES. 310 SUBSTANCES DISCHARGED PER ANUM. 2037. Portions of Lymph and Mucus discharged from the intestines. xvi. 63 2038. Soft Substances discharged per anum. Some of them resemble pieces of membrane: others have a tubular form; and others resemble pieces of fat. xvi. 39 2039. A similar specimen. XVI- 44 INJURIES OE THE INTESTINES. 20 40. Portion of an Ileum, exhibiting a complete transverse rupture of its coats. A thin shred alone connects its two portions. XVI- 51 The injury was the result of external violence in the same person as the ruptured Vena Cava, in Series IX, No. 1607 ; and the ruptured Bladder, in Series XXIX, No. 2441. 2041. Mesentery and portion of Small Intestine from a boy, aged 11 years, who fell between the side of a cart and its wheel, and was dragged along for some distance. He died from peritonitis, and on examination a rent of the mesentery was found, about three and a half inches m length. The coil of intestine corre- sponding to part of the rent in the mesentery was folded on itself, of a dark claret colour, sodden and oedematous, and united to the adjacent parts by bands of recent lymph'. This portion of intestine looked as if dead; and it seemed doubtful whether its condition was due to altered blood-supply in consequence of the rent in the mesentery, or to direct injury. The sub-peritoneal tissue of the abdominal wall situated over the portion of intestine was infiltrated with blood. EFFECTS OF POISONS. 2042. A Duodenum, exhibiting the effects of sulphuric acid. The mucous membrane is very dark with congested vessels and effused blood ; it is, in some situations, corrugated; in others, completely destroyed. xvi. 45 From the same patient as No. 1940, in Series XVI. 2043. Portion of the Jejunum of a man, aged 29 years, who twelve hours before death had swallowed about three ounces of commercial nitric acid, the stomach being empty. The surface of the mucous membrane has lost the bright scarlet colour, which it had before immersion in spirit, but the corrugation of the membrane is well shown. 2044. Portion of large Intestine, from a patient who died fourteen hours after swallowing a large quantity of liquor ammonia3. The mucous lining is of a deep crimson colour, and in places there are considerable portions which seem to be bared of epithelium, as after vesiccation. Some of the discoloration was due to the escape of altered blood into the sub-mucous tissue. There was an abundance of fluid blood in the alimentary canal. These conditions prevailed in, and from, the stomach to the upper part of the rectum.—See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xvii, p. 301. xvi. 129 A drawing is preserved, No. 219.