DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LIVER. 334 The liver was reduced to less than half its natural size, and was throughout similarly diseased. A cast of it is preserved, No. 138. 2201. Section of a Liver, exhibiting an advanced stage of cirrhosis, or " hobnailed liver." Its surfaces present the peculiar nodular tuberculated appearance characteristic of this disease. xvm. 36 2202. A specimen of cirrhosis of the Liver. 144 From a sailor (Lascar.) From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. « NUTMEG " LIVER. 2203. Section of a " Nutmeg" Liver. A change produced by mechanical con- gestion. The mottled appearance is produced by the dark red colour of the centre of the lobules, due to atrophy and disintegration of hepatic cells with deposition of pigment granules, whilst the peripheral portions are of a yellowish white colour. From a case of mitral disease with pulmonary congestion and dilated right heart. DILATATION OF THE HEPATIC DUCTS. 2204. Part of a Liver, showing the Hepatic Ducts greatly enlarged, their canals being variously dilated and sacculated; and the surrounding tissue condensed. The ducts were engorged with bile, and the hepatic lobules were of a deep green colour from the retention of their secretion, which was due to the presence of a large mass of medullary cancer pressing upon, and occluding the common duct, just before it entered the duodenum. xviii. 40 For the history of the case see St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xvii, p. 209. THROMBOSIS OF THE PORTAL VEIN. 2205. The Liver from a man aged 57 years. It is highly cirrhosed. The vena porta is completely obstructed by a granular, friable, softish coagulum, adherent to the lining membrane of the vein; no doubt formed some time (probably weeks) before death. The thrombus entered but a very little way into any of the vessels of which the vena portee is composed, but passed deeply into the smaller branches of the hepatic vein, entering the right lobe, and much less into the branches of the left lobe. The spleen was large and soft: the stomach and intestines were full of altered blood : there was great ascites and jaundice.—See Post Mortem Boole, vol. hi, case 55. 2206. A Section through the right lobe of a Liver, which is affected with sup- purative pyle-phlebitis. The portal vein at its entrance into the liver is thickened, especially the inner coat, which is stained and covered at one point by a patch of adherent lymph. The vein was filled with an ichorous purulent thrombus, as far as its first and second divisions. The parenchyma of the liver generally is soft and pulpy; in patches, chiefly distributed over the anterior surface and lower part of the organ, it is infiltrated with pus, and broken down. The infiltration, which is of a dirty yellow colour, is limited to a small area around thrombosed branches of the portal vein, as may be observed both in transverse and longitudinal sections of the veins. By the agglomeration of these areas, large patches of broken-down parenchyma are formed. From a man, aged 31 years, who was suddenly seized with pain in the right hypochondrium and vomiting. He had repeated rigors with sweatings and irregular rises of temperature. A fortnight later he became deeply jaundiced. There was extreme tenderness over, and pain in, the right hypochondrium. The rigors and fever continued, and he died about four weeks after the onset of hepatic symptoms. Post Mortem :—A circumscribed collection of pus was found around the attachment of the vermiform appendix. A thrombus extended from this along a mesenteric vein to the portal vein. There was apparently no impaction in, or ulceration of, the vermiform appendix.—See Luke Ward Book, vol. ix, p. 246. ECCHYMOSIS IN PYEMIA, &c. 2207. A Portion of the thin margin of a Liver, showing several small dots and