DISEASES OF BONES. 49 The patient was a woman 21 years old. She recovered after the operation. Presented by Mr. Jonathan Toogood, by whom the case is related in his Reminiscences of a Professional Life, p. 99. 363. A Scapula, showing an outgrowth of bone from the lower margin of the glenoid cavity. (In Case G.) 364. The inferior angle of a Scapula, with a section of a bony tumour growing from it. The base and interior of the tumour consist of cancellous bone, which is continuous with the cancellous tissue of the scapula. The exterior is formed by a layer of cartilage of irregular thickness, and the whole is invested by fibrous tissue. ' r 202 Presented by W. Beaumont, Esq. 365. A Humerus, with a nodulated exostosis growing from the front and upper part of its shaft. The tumour is much narrower at the point of its connection with the shaft than elsewhere. A i^l (In Case G.) 366. A Humerus, with a broad-based and sharp-edged growth of bone from the outer side of its shaft, close by the attachment of the deltoid muscle. a. 128 (In Case G.) 367. A Humerus, showing a well-marked supra-condyloid process. a. 135 (In Case G.) 368. A similar Specimen. A (In Case G.) 369. An Exostosis, which was removed from the Humerus of a boy 14 years old. It was situated at the insertion of the pectoralis major. Its outer surface is covered by periosteum and studded with small nodules of cartilage Internal] v it consists m part of a white and dense osseous texture, and in the rest of its extent of a cancellous texture, the cells of which were filled by an oily fluid At o eratioT *** °f iUm0nT which Were sePa^ted in the i. 105 370 Section of a Fore-finger, with an exostosis from the ulnar side of the distal extremity of its first phalanx The outgrowth, of a rounded irregularly knotted form, is composed of cancellous tissue, covered with a thin hwer or wall of ^^J^T rGSemble'and —P^-'^ continuous with! The patient, a boy 6 rears old, had symmetrical tumours, which nrobahlv v^u.i *i • • structure, on the lower ends of his radii, on his humeri scnnXVfth f i ud 5" m and internal malleoli, on each of these bones Se S^^Xri^tS what larger than those on the left. To the tumour here preserved[no 1»™ *r g S°me- on the left forefinger. The patient's father, an otSS ^thTSaTSSSSS W* cmthe bones of four of this man, cousins, vi„ of thS and ^Z^T^l^ The specimen was taken from the body of a youth in the dissecting room Presented by Mr. Luther Holden.