32 DISEASES OF BONES. 240. The lower half of a Tibia, which suffered Necrosis after a compound fracture. The fractured ends lay at some distance from each other, and have been united by two lateral bridges of bone extended transversely between them. The necrosed end of the upper portion is almost exfoliated, and new bone is abundantly formed on the adjacent living bone. *• °° 241. Portion of a Tibia necrosed after a compound fracture, illustrating the process of exfoliation. The fractured end of the bone has perished. A deep and irregular groove has been formed around the limits of the dead bone, and a considerable deposit of osseous substance has taken place upon the contiguous living bone. " T 81 242. A similar Specimen. u ° 243. Sections of a Tibia, of which nearly the whole length and thickness of the walls of the shaft perished, and were in process of separation from the cancellous and medullary texture, which has preserved its vitality and is in a nearly healthy condition. The groove formed between the dead and the living bone is filled with soft and very vascular granulations. On the internal surface of the periosteum, spongy and vascular new bone is formed in a nearly uniform layer, to supply the place of that which has perished. The inner surface of this new bone is covered by vascular granulations. L *-9 The walls of the bone perished after inflammation of the periosteum produced by the application of nitric acid to a sloughing ulcer in the front of the leg. 244. Parts of a Femur. A portion of the whole thickness of the shaft of the femur, five inches long, died and was separated. The dead bone is contained in a cavity, which is formed in part by new bone, and in part by the surround- ing soft tissues. The formation of new bone has taken place chiefly at the remaining upper portion of the shaft, but has not extended the whole length of the femur ; a considerable space remains at the lower part, where this new bone is connected with the condyles only by soft granulation tissue. The internal surface of the new bone exhibits great vascularity; the external surface is rough, irregular, and covered, not by well-formed periosteum, but by tough condensed cellular tissue, a portion of which has been turned back at the upper part. The surface of the lower end of the femur, from which the dead bone separated, is covered with granulations. The cartilage has been almost completely removed from the condyles, but the bone thus exposed is not ulcerated. L ^ The patient was a lad 16 years old. General swelling of the thigh attended with severe pain had existed a year and a-half before his admission to the hospital. Abscesses formed, and finally amputation was performed through the trochanter major. A few days before the operation, the limb, by the complete separation of the sequestrum and the succeeding approxi- mation of the ends of the femur, became one-third shorter than it had been. The rest of the patient's history is in the case of James Macdonnel, in a paper by Mr. Lawrence m the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. vi, p. 174. London, 1815. The patient lived thirty years after the operation. For other Specimens, see Nos. 18, 19, 175, 178, 196, 211, 226, 229, 334, 335, Sfc. SPECIMENS ILLUSTRATING REPAIR, AND THE FORMATION OF NEW BONE AFTER NECROSIS. 245. Lower Jaw removed after death from the man from whom Specimen No. 233 was taken. The new jaw is formed chiefly of well developed bone ; the intervals being filled up with fibrous tissue in various stages of ossification. The case is described in the Hospital Reports, vol. i. 246. The new Lower Jaw which was formed after the removnl of its pre-