SERIES L. GENERAL PATHOLOGY.* HYPERTROPHY. 3214. A Heart, showing extreme hypertrophy of the left ventricle, the wall of which is a.t one part two inches in thickness. The ventricular cavity is some- what enlarged. The mitral valves are slightly thickened: the aortic are normal: the inner cusp of the tricuspid valve is adherent to the ventricular septum, which projects into the cavity of the right ventricle. Microscopic Examination.—The muscular fibres composing the papillae and wall of the left ventricle were granular, and the striae were indistinguishable from fatty degeneration. From a blacksmith, aged 35 years, who fell down dead in the street. He had not previously complained of ill-health. The heart weighed 2 lbs. 6oz. The kidneys, brain, and other organs were healthy. The specimen is an illustration of the fatty degeneration which commonly supervenes on hypertrophy of the heart. Presented by Dr. Yarrow. 3215. A Urinary Bladder and Penis. One inch of the length of the urethra imme- diately anterior to the bulb is closely contacted. In consequence of this obstruction to the passage of urine, the bladder is hypertrophied. Its muscular coat is greatly increased in thickness, measuring about half an inch through. The muscular fasciculi on the inner surface project in strong columns or ridges, between which the mucous membrane is depressed. The mucous membrane is smooth, and though thicker than usual, is not indurated : it appears only to have acquired additional strength in correspondence with the other hyper- trophied textures of the organ. 3216. Skull of a child, about 10 years old, exhibiting enlargement of all the bones, especially the parietal and occipital, in adaptation to the enlargement of the brain by hydrocephalus. The bones are very thin and light; and the inferior occipital fossae bulge out in large rounded prominences. ATROPHY. 3217. The Skull of an old edentulous female, exhibiting atrophy of the jaw-bones and of the parts immediately connected with them, in consequence of the loss of the teeth. The alveolar margins of both jaws are completely absorbed ; so that the alveolar border of the upper jaw is nearly on a level with the surface of the hard palate, and that of the lower jaw is but just above the mental foramina bcarcely a trace of a tooth-socket can be seen; the margins of the jaw-bones *For other specimens in the Museum illustrating General Pathology, see the Table of Keferences at the commencement of the volume. 2 I 2