DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OB1 THE 8PJNK. 163 narrowed by the projection of the adjoining posterior borders of the bodies of the ninth and tenth vertebra1. 1V- ^1 1105. Portion of a Spine, in which the bodies of two dorsal vertebrae are com- pletely destroyed by ulceration, and those of two others were in progress of removal. D- ^ (In Case C.) 1106. The Dorsal portion of a Spine, with an acute angular curvature in conse- quence of destruction of the bodies of five vertebra). Together with the angular curvature, there is also lateral displacement, the superior vertebras being united to the left of the inferior. The aorta, upon the altered part of the spine, forms two very acute angles; the first, where it turns to the right, in adaptation to the lateral displacement; the second, where it resumes its down- ward course. D. 27 (In Case C.) 1107. The Dorsal portion of a Spine, with acute angular curvature, in conse- quence of destruction of the bodies of three vertebras. The aorta, upon the altered part of the spine, forms a very acute angle, which is directed backwards, in correspondence with the angle of the spine itself. D. 28 (In Case C.) 1108. Portion of a Spine, in which the bodies of four of the lower Dorsal Ver- tebra have been removed by ulceration. The ordinary process of cure has taken place, the vertebras above and below the seat of the disease approximating and uniting. But, together with the angular curvature thus produced, there is a lateral deviation of the axis of the spine, the lumbar vertebras being placed to the left of the lower dorsal. The spinous processes are removed, to show that, notwithstanding the angle of bone projecting into the vertebral canal, the space for the spinal cord is here greater than either above or below. D. 36 an Case C.) 1109. A Spine, with a very acute angular curvature, in consequence of the destruction of the bodies of the lower six Dorsal Vertebras. The vertebras above and below the seat of disease have been firmly united with the remains of the bodies of those that were ulcerated, and with one another. D. 29 (In Case C.) 1110. Section of a Spine, in which there has been destruction by ulceration of the bodies of six of the dorsal and lumbar vertebras. The vertebras above and below the seat of the disease have been approximated and firmly united by bone. There is an acute angular curvature of the spine, but the diameter of the canal which contained the spinal cord is not lessened ; rather-, by the extensive destruction of the bodies of the vertebras, it is increased where the angle is most prominent. D. 11 (In Case C.) 1111. The Skeleton of a Woman. There is a well-marked angular curvature in the dorso-lumbar region. The anterior portion of the bodies of the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebras is absorbed, so as to render the bones wedge- shaped ; the surfaces of these and the adjoining vertebras are covered by irre- gular projections of bone. With the angular curvat ure there is a slight 'lateral inclination to the right, and a slight compensatory curve to the left in the cervico-clorsal region. The long bones, with the exception of the bones of the forearms, are not curved, yet have the appearance of bones which had been affected with rickets. They are short, the articular ends are large and flattened, M 2