509 GENERAL PATHOLOGY. CYSTIC OR ENCYSTED TUMOURS—CYSTOMATA. I. CYSTS WHICH PROCEED FROM TRANSFORMATION OF NORMAL HOLLOW SPACES. a. Cysts through enlargement of normal serous sacs. 3358. A Bursa removed from over the olecranon. It contains two distinct cavities, separated by a thin septum, but the walls of the cavities are con- tinuous, as if the bursal cyst had originally been single. They contained a brown serous fluid. The patient was a drayman ; lie could give no explanation of the origin of the bursa. 3359. A Cyst removed from the palm of the hand. It contained a serous fluid, and extended over the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, to the periosteum of which it was at one part closely adherent. Its walls are composed of a tough fibrous tissue ; its exterior is smooth; its interior has a slightly polished surface, rendered irregular by prominent intersecting fibrous bands. xxxv. 34 b. Cysts through distension of closed Follicles. 3360. A Cyst, attached by a thick pedicle to the surface of an ovary. 3361. A Section of an Ovary, having its surface covered by many small pro- jecting cysts. Some minute cysts are also imbedded in its substance, which is dense and fibrous. Two corpora lutea are cut across near the surface, the larger of which is dilated into a small cyst. Removed from a patient whose opposite ovary was affected with cystic disease, for which ovariotomy was performed. c. Cysts by Transformation of Mucous Membrane Canals from Distension. 3362. A Uterus and its appendages. The right Fallopian tube is greatly dilated, forming a large cyst, globular at its extremity, but having the form of a tortuous tube at its attachment to the uterus; it contained a serous fluid. The interior of the cyst -presents some septa, formed apparently by folding and unequal dilatation of the tube. Several bands of adhesion are attached to the cyst, the uterus, and broad ligaments. The ovary is seen below the cyst, and between it and the uterus. The wall of the uterus is thickened and a fleshy growth projects into its interior. From a lady, aged 53 years (married 28 years). During the last twenty years she had had five miscarriages. Menopause at 52 years. In October, 187U, she began to suffer pain in the right groin, intense every night for from six to twelve hours. In January, a tumour was felt, behind and to the right of the uterus. She died in May, 1880, apparently from exhaustion, and no disease of any other organ was found on post mortem examination. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. d. Cysts formed by Closure or Obstruction of, and accumulation of the Secretion within, the Ducts of Glands and their prolongations : so-called Retention Cysts. 3363. A cutaneous Cyst removed with the skin covering it from some part of the border of the hairy scalp. It is regular, nearly spherical, smooth, and thin- walled. The greater part of its internal surface is lined with compact, but easily broken material, consisting, probably, of epidermal scales and fatty matter. xxxv. 105 Presented by Dr. James Reid.