370 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE URINARY BLADDER. The hole is large enough to admit a quill on the outside, but of greater extent on the inside. The lining membrane of the bladder is ecchymosed in patches. The whole viscus is thickened, and large fasciculi appear on the inner surface. The membranous portion of the urethra is contracted and beaded with small nodules of lymph. From a man, aged 45 years. The rupture was the result of a severe injury to the abdomen. He died four days afterwards of peritonitis. The pelvis contained much blood and urine. He had suffered from stricture for some years. 2441. A Bladder, exhibiting a rupture of its anterior wall in a line from the prostate gland to the fundus. xxvu. 21 The rupture was produced by a blow on the abdomen, in the same person as the rupture of the vena cava inferior in Series IX, No. 1607, and of the ileum in Series XVIII, No. 2040. LITHOTOMY. 2442. The Bladder, Ureters, and Kidneys of a child upon whom the operation ot lithotomy was performed a few days before death. The bladder is contracted, its muscular coat is hypertrophied, and its mucous membrane is thickened and indurated. The ureters, pelves, and infundibula of the kidneys are widely dilated. xxvn- 12 2443. The Bladder and Rectum of a child upon whom the operation of lithotomy was performed about a fortnight before death. A bristle is passed through the tract of the wound. xxvn. 18 2444. The Bladder and Kidneys of a man upon whom the operation of lithotomy was performed five years before death. The cicatrix in the mucous membrane within the prostate and neck of the bladder is distinctly visible, and a mem- branous band extends across it between the front and back parts of the prostate, leaving a small channel, marked by a piece of glass, where it is probable that a portion of the wound in the prostate did not heal. One kidney is much reduced by the absorption of its glandular substance; and its infundibula, pelvis, and a portion of the ureter, are filled by a large branched calculus. In the other kidney the infundibula are dilated and filled by several calcnli. xxvn. 23 The patient had considered himself healthy from the time at which he underwent lithotomy; but for some weeks before his death the symptoms of disease of the kidneys were evident. Vide Nos. 2396, 2434. TAPPING OF THE BLADDER. 2445. The Bladder and Urethra of a man, whose bladder was punctured above the pubes, twelve years before death, on account of stricture of the urethra. The walls of the bladder are thickened, and small pouches of its mucous membrane are protruded between the muscular fibres. Connected with the front of the bladder is the fistulous tract extending through the parietes of the abdomen, through which the patient discharged his urine from the time of the puncture of his bladder to his death ; it is lined by membrane similar to, and continuous with, the mucous membrane of the bladder. The urethra is contracted in its whole length, but pervious. A tough fibrous band, an inch in length, and attached only by its extremities, extends from the veru montanum forwards to the membranous part of the urethra. xxvn. 28 2445a. A Bladder, with an enlarged Prostate Gland, from a man whose bladder had been punctured above the pubes eight years before death. The fistulous passage through which the urine was discharged is about four inches in length and extends from the front of the bladder immediately above the prostate, through the abdominal walls. A piece of glass is introduced into this passage. The lateral lobes of the prostate are enlarged, and a distinct portion of the gland, flattened and triangular, projects into the bladder immediately behind the orifice of the urethra. XX1X- 16 A calculus, preserved in Series LII, was found in the bladder. Vide also Nos. 2401 and 2829. Presented by William Kingdon, Esq.