DISEASES OF BONES. 77 Cyst, which was filled bv liquid and coagulated blood and a small quantity of brain-like substance. The cyst is nearly globular; its walls are from a hue to two lines in thickness, composed of thin plates of bone and fibrous membrane smooth externally, and presenting internally at some parts a rough surface ot bone and at others numerous prominent decussating fibrous bands and cords, like the texture of the basis of a spleen or of erectile tissue. To these bands, as well as to the osseous surface, loose flocculi and small portions of bram-bke substance are adherent. Below, the cyst is bounded by the articular cartilages, the texture of which is unaltered; above, by the shaft of the femur which terminates abruptly just before it is expanded into the cyst. The shaft above the cyst presented numerous small spots of effused blood, like ecchymosis beneath the periosteum. L ^20 From a gentleman, 30 years of age, in whom the tumour had been two years in progress. Four years after the amputation of the limb he was in good health. 530. The Head of a Tibia with a large Osseous Tumour (probably an osteo- sarcoma) surrounding it. The tumour apparently originated from the external surface of the tibia and beneath the periosteum, which, in one situation, is seen continued from the tibia upon its external surface. In the centre of the tumour is a large irregular cavity which was filled by purulent fluid, and upon one part of its surface are some smaller cavities which were filled with blood, and the sides of which are formed by a dark coloured and soft substance. A part of the interior of the head of the tibia is occupied by a similar osseous substance. *■ 531. A large Cyst connected with the upper part of the Tibia. The disease seems to have commenced in the head of the tibia. The greater part of the wall of the bone is absorbed, so that the parietes of the cyst are formed above by the cartilage which covered the head of the bone, and in nearly all other directions by condensed fibro-cellular tissue, or the distended periosteum. A large portion of the cyst has been removed, to give a clear view of its interior, which is uneven, in parts fasciculated and coarsely reticulated, in other parts shreddy. It probably contained blood and had its origin (like the similar specimen, No. 529) in a medullary tumour growing within the head of the bone. i- 32 532. Portions of a Humerus and a Tumour connected with it, which appa- rently originated in the bone. The greater part of the shaft of the humerus has disappeared. The tumour connecting the remaining portions of the bone consists of soft pale substance of gelatinous aspect, in the centre of which is a large cavity, which contained a thick serous fluid. The brachial artery and nerves are attached to the exterior of the tumour, but they are healthy. i. 86 The tumour had a constant and regular pulsation, which ceased on compression of the sub- clavian artery, but the cause of which was not discovered in the examination of the limb. The patient was an old woman. 533. The Lower End of a Femur, with the contiguous soft parts occupied by a soft tumour containing a large cyst. Immediately above the condyles the bone has been almost completely absorbed, its continuity being preserved only by a small portion of the other part of the shaft. From a woman aged 36 years, in whom the disease had existed for ten months. 534. Section of a Tumour occupying the situation of the head and upper third of the shaft of the Tibia. The external surface of the tumour is covered in by the aponeurosis which invested the knee-joint, and by remains of the walls of the bone extended and thinned around it. At the upper part of the tumour