525 URINARY CALCULI. portions—the inner one consisting of Phosphate of Lime with Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia, and a little Carbonate of Lime; the middle which is much harder in textnre and more compact, of Phosphate of Lime and Carbonate of Lime; and the outer, of Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia, and Phosphate of Lime. From the bladder of a lad aged 17. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle. 112. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia with some Lime; next, Oxalate of Lime; then, Uric Acid with a small quantity of the Phosphates; and lastly, a thin layer of Urate of Ammonia containing Oxalate and Phosphate of Lime, and coloured by Purpurate of Ammonia. 113. Section of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia with a little Oxalate of Lime; around this, a ring of pure Oxalate of Lime; the remainder, Uric Acid with thin layers of Oxalate of Lime, coated by Urate of Ammonia and Oxalate of Lime. From the bladder of a boy 9 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle. 114. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia with a little Oxalate of Lime ; surrounded by a mixture of Urate of Ammonia, Oxalate of Lime, and a small quantity of the Phosphates ; and, lastly, a layer of the Fusible Calculus. From the bladder of a boy 10 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Abbott. 115. Section of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia, with Oxalate of Lime in alternate layers with the mixed Phosphates. Passed spontaneously from the bladder of a girl 4 years old. 116. Section of a large Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia, surrounded by Phosphate of Lime, and Phosphate of Magnesia and Ammonia. 117. Three large Calculi. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia; remainder, Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia, with Phosphate of Lime and some Urate of Ammonia. Removed from the bladder of a man after death. Presented by J. F. Crookes, Esq. CALCULI OP WHICH THE NUCLEUS CONSISTS OF OXALATE OF LIME. CALCULI CONSISTING MAINLY OF OXALATE OF LIME. 118. Specimen of Mulberry Calculus, composed of Oxalate of Lime. 119. Section of an Oxalate of Lime Calculus, which was found, in the operation performed for its removal, attached by the end that is placed uppermost in the bottle, to the lining-membrane of the bladder. The subject of it was a native of India. Presented by Surgeon-Major Trestraill. 120. Sections of a mulberry-like Calculus composed of Oxalate of Lime: the nucleus probably contains Urate of Ammonia. From the bladder of a boy 11 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Stanley. 121. Mulberry Calculus. Oxalate of Lime. From the bladder of a boy 10 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Vincent. 122. An Oxalate of Lime Calculus, weighing one ounce, one drachm, removed