DISEASES OF BONES. 8 50. A Tibia and Fibula, with large plates and processes of new bone npon their surfaces, and with ossification of the lower part of the interosseous ligament. a. 14 (In Case E.) 51. Portions of a Tibia and Fibula thickened in their walls, and with plates of new bone upon their external surfaces. a. 28 (In Case E.) 52. A Tibia and Fibula generally enlarged, with ossification of the interosseous membrane. There is a circumscribed oval elevation of new bone on the front and lower part of the tibia, over which it is probable there was an old ulcer of the soft parts of syphilitic origin. a. 15 (In Case E.) 53. Portion of a Tibia, on the external surface of which, above the malleolus, new bone has been formed on a circumscribed oval space. A part of the new bone has been destroyed by ulceration, which probably extended into it from an ulcer of the integuments. a. 50 (In Case E.) 54. Portion of a Tibia, exhibiting superficial ulceration, with a porous appearance of the surrounding bone : the result of disease like that shown in the prece- ding specimen. a. 76 (In Case E.) OSTEO-MYELITIS AND ACUTE OSTITIS. 55. The greater portion of the Cannon Bone of a young Ass. Eighteen days before death a peg of bone was driven deeply into a hole bored into it. When removed and divided longitudinally the bone presented the signs of acute inflammation. The medullary membrane and the cancellous tissue were of a bright red colour ; even the compact wall of the shaft appeared of a pale pinkish hue. The colours rapidly disappeared after immei'sion in strong spirit. 56. A portion of the opposite Cannon Bone of the same animal, into which a peg had been in like manner inserted eighteen days previously. Upon section it presented similar signs of acute inflammation, though in a less degree. The medullary membrane and cancellous tissue were not so intensely red. 57. The Tibia of the same animal, into which, eighteen days before death, two pegs had been inserted. Upon section it presented the signs of inflammation in a degree about equal to that of the previous specimen. 58. The other Tibia of the same animal, subjected to a similar experiment eighteen days before death. The bone was acutely inflamed throughout. Upon section the cancellous texture appeared of a vivid red colour. The medullary membrane in its middle third was in a sloughing condition. 59. Portions of a Humerus, Radius, and Ulna. The sections of the humerus exhibit thickening of the medullary membrane, which is, in some parts, upwards of a line in thickness, and presents an uneven velvet-like surface. A portion of cancellous tissue has separated after necrosis and lies loose in the medullary cavity. A piece of glass is passed through a long fistulous passage leading from the medullary cavity through the lower end of the humerus into the el bow-joint. The greater part of the articular cartilage is removed from the ends of the bones forming the elbow-joint; and the remains of the synovial membrane are thickened. I- 207 60. Sections of the Head and Shaft of a Femur, exhibiting suppuration in the