44 DISEASES OF BONES. 323. A Skull-Cap, exhibiting extensive syphilitic ulceration of the parietal bones, with thickening and hardening of the inner table. A- (In Case F.) 324. A Skull-Cap, in which there is consolidation of the diploe, with increased hardness of the tables, and ulceration of the frontal and left parietal bones. A. oo (In Case F.) 325. A Frontal Bone, exhibiting ulceration of its outer table penetrating to the frontal sinus. The border of the ulcer is surrounded by an unequal ring of new bone. The disease was probably the result of syphilis. a. 5b (In Case F.) 326. Portion of a Skull, with syphilitic ulceration of the frontal bone extending into the frontal sinuses and through the inner table of the skull. a. S4 (In Case F.) 327 A Skull-Cap, exhibiting ulceration of a small circumscribed portion of the outer table of the frontal bone, with thickening of the inner table m the corre- sponding situation. (In Case F.) 328. Portion of the Base of a Skull, exhibiting syphilitic ulceration of the palate, and the front of the alveolar process. There is also ulceration of the left malar bone, which presents the same characters as the ulceration m No. 313 and others of the preceding specimens. A> (In Case F.) 329 Portion of a Tibia exhibiting superficial ulceration, with node-like thicken- in^ of the bone around the ulcerated surface: probably the effects of syphilis. ° A. 52i (rn Case F.) 330 Section of a Tibia enlarged in its lower third by the external formation of new bone. The new bone is penetrated by some small irregular ulcers, probacy of a syphilitic nature. (In Case F.) 331 The anterior portion of a lateral section through of an injected Tibia: the skin bas been left upon its inner surface. Near to the tuberosity, and m close nroximitv to the knee-joint, a breaking down gumma is cut across ; the bone beneath it is rough and superficially destroyed. A little lower there is a hard node on the spine of the tibia. On the inner side of the section an ulcerating ffumtna covering the head of the bone is cut across, also another gumma a little below it The destruction of the bone beneath them is well seen, as also their non vascularity- The centre of the shaft is hard and dense, but the head is softened, rarefied, and its cancellous tissue is filled with pulpy medulla. The knee- ioint was chronically inflamed—the synovial membrane being thick and pulpy, the cartilages undergoing fibrous degeneration and absorption at the edges. From a man aged 33 ; he had primary syphilis ten years previously. Four years before his admission a sweUing appeared on the front of the tibia, which, after subsiding and Ins ad™1(>n> * thi|e ^onth8 bofore lli8 admission to the hospital, leaving an opening growing woioe, bead of tibia) from which gome carious bone was removed b oration The operation wound ulcerated, and finally amputation was performed.-See Henry Ward Booh, vol. vi, p. 242. nia The other Section of the head of the same Tibia. The cancellous tissue of tne articular end is rarefied, and upon the external aspect of the head two depressions arc cut across, surrounded by an irregular deposit of bone; they