INJURIES OF JOINTS, DISLOCATIONS, ETC. 152 dislocation has been reproduced. A large portion of bone comprising- the posterior third of the acetabulum is raised above the head : it is attached to the upper part of the capsule. m. 20 1041. Section of the head and neck of a Femur, with the Os Innominatum of a man in whom dislocation of the femur and fracture of the acetabulum occurred fifty years before death. The dislocation was reduced; but, soon after, the head of the bone again escaped from the acetabulum, and was not again reduced. The head and neck of the femur are altered in form, being shortened, flattened, and much increased in their vertical diameter; and the cancellous tissue of a thick layer of the head of the femur is consolidated and hard. A new and deep osseous cavity, with very thick walls, projects from the os inno- minatum, as if growing out from the original acetabulum, and incloses the head and a part of the neck of the femur. The wall of bone by which this cavity is separated from that of the pelvis, and which includes the former floor of the acetabulum, is an inch and a quarter m thickness, and is chiefly formed, like the rest of the walls of the cavity, of hard compact new bone. The surface of the cavity and that of the head of the femur are covered and partially connected by fibrous tissue : they have no articular cartilage. The obturator internus muscle and sciatic nerve are seen in their natural situations, but are flattened in consequence of the altered form and enlargement of the surrounding parts. ra. 100 The patient was 18 years old at the time of the dislocation. His limb was a little shortened, but he had good use of it. 1042. The other half of the Hip-Joint described above, after maceration. in. 101 Presented by Thcnias Wormald, Esq. DOWNWARDS INTO THE OBTURATOR FORAMEN. 1043. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting a recent dislocation of the head of the Femur onto the lower edge of the obturator externus muscle. The ligamentum teres is torn from its attachment to the head of the femur. The capsule is extensively lacerated at the anterior and lower part of the joint. The obturator externus muscle is lacerated where the femur rests partly on it, and partly on the subjacent obturator ligament. m, 25 FORWARDS AND UPWARDS. 1044. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting an infra-spinous dislocation of the Femur which occurred many years before death. The head of the femur has been thrown upwards and forwards, and is lodged in a cavity on the outer surface of the anterior inferior spine : this cavity is formed partly by new bone, and partly by the displaced cotyloid ligament. The ligamentum teres is flattened and elongated, but it retains its natural connections ; bristles are passed beneath the two portions of this ligament, which are attached to the margin of the original acetabulum. The lower part of the head of the femur is irregularly absorbed. in. 43 The patient was 40 years old. When he was about 14 years old, he fell from a ladder and injured his hip. He had great pain at the time of the accident, and fur many mouths much difficulty in walking ; but he recovered, and was in an active walking occupation till his last illness. The case is recorded by Mr. Wormald, in the London Medical Gazette, vol. xix, p. 658. London, 1837. 1045. The left Hip-Joint of a man aged 46, showing an infra-spinous dislocation. The head of the femur has left the acetabulum, and is lodged beneath the anterior inferior iliac spine, the great trochanter pointing directly backwards. The tendon of the psoas muscle winds l-ound the outer aspect of the head to reach the lesser trochanter. The iliacus muscle is stretched over the inner