DISEASES OF BONES. 22 From a child 46 weeks of age. At the eleventh week she had been vaccinated, and pro- gressed without any untoward symptoms until the sixteenth, when she suffered from chicken pox, and subsequently from acute necrosis of the left fore-arm. After being under treatment for nineteen weeks the bone was removed, and the arm began to regain its natural appearance. 159. Part of the shaft of the Ulna of a child 4 years of age, which separated after necrosis. *• 1^0 The cause was unknown. 160. The terminal phalanx of a Thumb which exfoliated, almost entire, in a case of Whitlow. I- 228 161. A similar Specimen. L 162. The Finger of an adult, in which there is Necrosis of the first phalanx in one half of its length including the distal articular end. The extent of the dead bone is marked by bristles introduced between it and the surrounding parts. The separation of the dead bone is complete, but no new bone has been formed in its place. 1^ 163. Bones of Fingers which separated by exfoliation. I- 66 164. The lower part of a Coccyx which necrosed and exfoliated after a fall on the buttocks. !• 229 The patient had imperfect power over the lower extremities from the time of the accident, and died after long-continued suffering with extensive abscesses in the perineum. The dead bone was removed after death. Presented by Carston Holthouse, Esq. 165. Acute Necrosis of a large portion of the shaft of a Femur, removed by amputation from an infant 15 months old: spontaneous fracture had occurred a few days before. The shaft is separated from the lower epiphysis, but the knee-joint is not affected. The disease, which commenced spontaneously, had existed a few weeks. The case terminated fatally. See Lucas Ward Boole, vol. iii, p. 283. 166. Portion of the Femur of a child which separated in consequence of Ne- crosis. The separated portion includes the whole shaft and neck of the bone, with the exception of some small pieces of the outer layers of the shaft. I. 204 The recovery of the child, after the separation, was complete ; the thigh was firm and not much shortened. 167. Necrosis of nearly the whole shaft of the Femur. The chief interest of this case lay in the fact that the necrosis was unaccompanied by suppuration, i. 378 The patient from whom the specimen was removed (by amputation at the hip-joint) was a man a<red 20, who was quite well until about ten weeks before his admission into the hospital, when he began to suffer from deep-seated pain, soon followed by swelling of the left thigh. About six weeks after the beginning of his illness, the limb suddenly gave way as he was walk- in a across a room, and he fell. On subsequent examination it was found that the extremity was much shortened, evidently in consequence of a fracture of the femur in its middle third. On making a section of the limb after amputation no inflammation of the integuments or muscles, no abscess or sinus were found, and not a drop of pus was visible. The fracture, which was five'or six weeks old at the time of the operation, is surrounded by fibrous tissue, in which new bone has been deposited, so as to form a somewhat bulky callus. This band of connection is however, but feeble. The upper half of the femur at its posterior aspect has not perished, but is considerably thickened by the formation of new bone. The dead bone is not at all points loosened from its connections, but is still continuous with the cancellous tissue of the interior at the upper and lower extremities of the shaft: it is surrounded by a moderately thick sheath of hard new bone, which is continuous with the portion of the wall of the shaft that is not necrosed. There are one or two small openings in the sheath of new bone, which seemed, in the recent state, rather as if made accidentally after removal of the hmb, than like cloaca. t A Drawing of the specimen is preserved, JNo, be.