DISEASES OF THE OVARIES. 412 of a tough, fibrous tissue, but portions of its walls are as hard as cartilage, and have small plates of bone-like substance in them. xxxi. 2 From the same patient as Nos. 541, 542, in Series I. SOLID TUMOURS OF THE OVARY. 2925. A spherical Fibrous Tumour, connected to the left ovary by a narrow pedicle. It is divided by a longitudinal section. Before removal the tumour lay in the peritoneal pouch between the uterus and rectum. The bottom of the pouch is forced downwards hernia-like, to a considerable extent. There were no symptoms of its presence during life. It was taken from a woman, aged 55 years. There are also some small subperitoneal uterine fibroids. xxxi. 30 2926. One-half of a Tumour, which was removed from the situation of the left ovary of a woman, aged 55 years. It is composed of loose fibrous tissue. A similar, though somewhat smaller growth, occupied the situation of the right ovary. She had been conscious of the existence of some tumour of the abdomen for two years. 2927. A Uterus and Ovaries. The place of each ovary is occupied by a large, hard, oval tumour, nodulated on its external surface. The tumours consist of a very dense and hard, obscurely fibrous tissue, and upon the surface, as well as in the interior of each, there are small membranous cysts, which contained a serous fluid. The uterus is healthy. xxxi. 17 From a woman, 38 years old, whose breast had been removed three years before death on account of hard cancer. Presented by Richard Allen, Esq. 2928. A Uterus and Ovaries. The ovaries are altered in form; their natural structure is removed, and its place is occupied by a very soft melanotic matter. There are also some small circumscribed deposits of melanotic matter in the peritoneum covering the uterus. xxxi. 16 From a young woman in whom melanosis existed in many other organs. The primary tumour is in Series L, ~No. 3315. 2929. Part of a Colloid Cancer which had originated in an ovary. The soft colloid material has been washed away from the loculi which contained it, and these, with their walls forming the more solid portion of the growth, remain, communicating freely one with another. Their walls, of an opaque white colour, are composed of a dense, imperfectly-formed fibrous tissue. xxxv. 112 OVARIOTOMY. 2930. The Fundus of a Uterus and ad3acent structures. On the left side the stump of the pedicle of an ovarian tumour is seen. Between the remains of the Fallopian tube and ligament of the ovary is a small, discoloured, ragged cavity, in which the portion of silk ligature preserved in following specimen was found. The right ovary is firm and fibrous. Ovariotomy was performed one year before the patient's death. 2931. The remains of the Silk Ligature found in the pedicle preserved in the preceding specimen. The knot and frayed-out ends attached to it alone remained unabsorbed. 2932. Portions of Silk Ligature discharged from a sinus remaining after ova-