THEIR PELVES, AND THE URETERS. 359 ordinary effects of urinary obstruction, as well as an unusual prolapsed condi- tion of'the vesical end of both ureters into the bladder, with extreme hyper- trophy and dilatation of the tubes themselves. Their vesical orifices are reduced to pin-hole apertures. The prolapsed pouch of the right ureter con- tains a calculus. On the posterior wall of the bladder a sacculus of mucous membrane is thrust out betsveen the muscular fibres. The prolapsus of the ureters seems to bo due to the disproportion of size between the ureters themselves and their vesical orifices, as if, in the efforts to micturate, the urine, being unable to escape freely from the bladder and distended ureters, the abdominal walls had compressed and borne down the ureters themselves. The specimen is described in the Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. xii, 1863. b. Obstruction to the flow of Urine from the Bladder. 2368. The Urinary Organs, showing the effects of stricture. There is a firm, fibrous stricture in the membranous portion of the urethra. The bladder is slightly dilated and its walls much thickened. The ureters are largely and irregularly dilated. The pelvis and calices of the kidneys are dilated and the parenchyma of the organs is atrophied. These changes are much more advanced in the left kidney. There are two ureters on the left side, one of which com- municates with the upper, the other with the lower half of the pelvis of the kidney, each conducting away the urine from corresponding portions of the organ. They unite at their vesical extremities to form a single duct. From a boy, aged 15 years, who had long suffered from symptoms of stricture, due to an injury eight years before admission to the Hospital. Death took place from suppurative nephritis and acute cystitis.—See Henry Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 167. 2369. Right Kidney, showing dilatation of the pelvis and ureter. The kidney is atrophied, indurated from increase of its interstitial tissue, and it contains cysts. From a man who died in Matthew Ward, May, 1869. He hid long suffered from enlarged prostate and difficulty in micturition. Death took place from extravasation of urine. Several false passages were found at the vesical orifice of the urethra. 2370. The Bladder, Ureters, and Kidneys of a boy, 13 years old. The bladder is contracted, its muscular coat hypertrophied, and its mucous coat ulcerated. The ureters are very tortuous, widely dilated, and thickened. The mucous membrane of each is rough, and lymph and pus are in some parts deposited upon it. The pelves and infundibula of both kidneys are also widely dilated, thick- ened and rough on their internal surfaces from similar deposit. The kidneys appear enlarged by the dilatation of their pelves and infundibula, but their glandular substance is thinned. xxvn 29 The patient had phimosis, and had suffered for four years with incontinence of urine. For three months before death he had severe symptoms like those of stone in the bladder' The operation for phimosis was performed, but he died exhausted. Presented by Thomas Stone, Esq. 2371. Interstitial Nephritis, with atrophy of both kidneys, associated with dilated, varicosely-bulged and thickened ureters, and dilated and hypertrophied bladder. J r r This condition was probably due to obstruction to the outflow of urine from the bladder. 2372. A Kidney, showing considerable dilatation of the pelvis and calices with small deposits of yellow tubercular matter on the lining membrane ' The surface of the kidney is lobed, owing to the projection of the calices, and the parenchyma of the organ is thinned and distended in small pouches. From the same child from whom Specimen No. 2435 in Series XXIX was taken The or,™ site kidney was hypertrophied, but the pelvis was slightly dilated. P1