227 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. Biderable tumour on the front of the chest. There is an abundant deposit of earthy matter in the walls of the artery and in part of the aneurismal sac. xiii. 10 1489. The Arch of an Aorta, from which two large Aneurisms have arisen. The mouths of the sacs are separated by a portion of the whole circumference of the artery about half an inch in width, above which they communicate by an irregular oval aperture, through which one appears to have burst into the other. Laminated coagulum lines both sacs. The internal surface of the aorta is tuberculated, and has irregular deposits of soft matter between its coats. xiii. 20 Presented by James Gillman, Esq. 1490. The Arch of an Aorta, exhibiting an aneurism which has burst into the vena cava superior. The aneurism is formed by dilatation of the upper and posterior wall of that portion of the arch which lies between the reflection of the pericardium and the origin of the arteria innominata; its walls comprise all the coats of the artery. On both sides of the aneurismal sac the aorta has its natural size, and its internal coat appears less thickened and tuberculated than where it lines the sac. The vena cava superior is adherent to the exterior of the sac, and there is an aperture of communication between them; imme- diately around which aperture the vein and the sides of the sac are so much attenuated as to be transparent. xiii. 84 1491. A large Aneurism, of many years' duration, opening by a wide mouth into the dilated ascending Aorta. The mouth of the aneurism and dilated walls of the aorta are calcified to a considerable extent. From a man, aged 48 years.—Post Mortem Booh, vol. ii, Case 69. 1492. Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta. 51 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1493. The Arch of an Aorta, with an Aneurism at its upper and posterior part, between the innominate and left carotid arteries. The sac is in great part filled by coagulum. The internal coat of the artery is generally thickened. The sac has compressed and burst into the trachea by a transverse rent between two of the cartilaginous rings. XIII. 52 1494. The Arch of an Aorta, with a large Aneurism just below the innominate which has burst into the trachea and oesophagus. The sac is neai'ly filled by layers of coagulum; and the blood passed between them and the parietes of the sac, in the direction marked by two pieces of whalebone, to the irregular aper- tures in the trachea and oesophagus through which the aneurism burst. All the arteries arising from the upper part of the arch of the aorta are compressed by the aneurism. XIII 54 1495. The Arch of an Aorta, an Aneurism of the posterior wall of which, below the brachio-cephalic trunks, has burst into the oesophagus. The internal coat of the artery is much thickened. The main arterial trunks arise from the front of the sac, and are not compressed. XIIL 55 1496. The Arch of an Aorta, with an Aneurism at its upper part. Part of the sac is formed by the dilated artery, the coats of which terminate with an abrupt margin near the middle of the sac. The remaining part of the sac is formed bv condensed cellular tissue, and the sternum. Round, deeply impressed pits produced by absorption are visible upon the internal surface of the sternum • and one of these penetrates the bone to its external surface, and leads to an ulcerated aperture m the corresponding portions of the integuments. xiii. 70 q 2