DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE URINARY BLADDER. 366 and covered with lymph and mucus. Parts of it, also, are destroyed by ulcera- tion, exposing the external and peritoneal coverings of the bladder; and in one of these parts, near one of the dilated ureters, complete perforation into the peritoneal cavity has taken place. xxvu. 37 The patient was a woman, between 40 and 50. About three weeks before her death, a small tumour was removed from her fore-arm. She died with typhoid symptoms, but no sign of diseased urinary organs was, at any time, complained of or observed. TUBERCULAR ULCERATION. 2412. A Urinary Bladder, on the inner surface of which, especially near the neck, are several oval tubercular ulcers, about the size of a threepenny piece; their bases are irregular, and covered with breaking-down tubercular matter. From a woman, aged 34 years, whose lungs contained miliary tubercles ; the right kidney and ureter were also affected with tubercular disease. The ureter is preserved in No. 2343.—See Post Mortem Boole, vol. viii, p. 188. 2413. A Bladder, exhibiting numerous distinct circular ulcers on the mucous membrane. At the bases of some of these ulcers there are small tubercular deposits. The intervening portions of the mucous membrane, to the borders of the ulcers, are healthy. xxvu. 31 There were tubercles in the lungs and other organs, and the kidneys were affected with tubercular disease. 2414. Part of a Bladder and its Ureters. The entire mucous surface of the former is converted into a rough villous texture, being part of a layer of con- siderable thickness which has taken the place of the natural lining. In the recent state it was soft and of a pale yellow colour, and was formed by a deposit of tubercular matter in the mucous and sub-mucous tissues. This condition extends up the left ureter, and involved the calices and tubuli of the corre- sponding kidney. The right ureter remains unaffected. Part of the penis, including the glans, is suspended in front, and the urethra is laid open, to show that the diseased condition prevails to its very extremity. xxvn. 40 From the body of a boy who had long suffered from symptoms of vesical disease, which at first simulated those of a calculus in the bladder. Large quantities of broken-down scrofulous material were constantly passed with the urine. A drawing of the kidney, No. 323, shows its recent appearance. 2415. A Bladder, in which diffuse ulceration (? tubercular) has removed the mucous membrane around its urethral orifice. Near the margin of the diffuse ulceration is a small, oval ulcer, with sharp, abrupt margins. xxvu. 3 2416. A Bladder, in which nearly the whole of the mucous membrane has been removed by ulceration (? tubercular.) xxvu. 19 TUMOURS (and Allied Morbid Growths) OP THE BLADDER. VILLOUS TUMOUR. 2417. A Bladder, with a uniformly enlarged Prostate Gland. Its muscular coat is thickened. A soft, flocculent, and very vascular villous growth is attached by a narrow base to the mucous membrane at the lower and posterior part of the bladder, immediately behind the orifice of the urethra. A portion of glass is introduced into a pouch or sac formed by the mucous membrane of a part of the lateral wall of the bladder protruded between the muscular fibres. There are two similar small pouches of the mucous membrane on the opposite side of the bladder, close to the termination of the ureter. xxvn- 25 The morbid growth was the source of frequent and profuse ha;morrhage. Presented by Herbert Evans, Esq.