481 ANATOMY OF STUMPS AFTER AMPUTATION OF LIMBS. of the bone gradually enlarged. Subsequently, fistulous apertures appeared in various parts about the extremity of the stump. A simple incision across the face of the stump exposed the end of the bone, which was seized, and the dead portion drawn out from a well-defined cavity lined with a smooth, soft, and vascular membrane. The walls, of considerable thickness, were formed of new bone. 3203. Section of a Femur from a Stump, exhibiting an irregular osseous deposit upon its surface, immediately above its extremity, which has perished. I. 142 3204. Ring of Bone exfoliated from the end of a Femur after amputation. i. 179 3205. Ring of Bone exfoliated from the end of a Tibia after amputation. I. 187 CONICAL STUMP. 3206. The end of the Stump of a Humerus. r. 300 Amputation was performed, on account of an injury of the arm, when the child, from whom this specimen was taken, was about 4 years old. The stump healed without prominence of the bone, but, in about a year, the bone had grown so much more than the soft parts, and had become so prominent, that it was necessary to remove this portion, which is nearly an inch in length. 3207. A Thigh Stump in which the conditions which lead to a conical stump are seen in progress. It has been injected with carmine, and a section made through it from before backwards. The bone protrudes two or three inches beyond the flaps; its extremity is bare and dead; a fine'rim of bone has separated from the outer half. Above the dead extremity the protruding bone is covered by granulations, beneath which is a considerable heaping up of new periosteal bone (as may be seen on the surface of the section). The medullary canal is enlarged towards the extremity of the bone by the absorption of the compact tissue. The femoral vessels are dissected out. Springing from the end of the artery are a large number of adventitious vessels. The artery itself terminates in a fibro-cellular cord which is adherent to the bone • just above its termination the vessel is dilated and makes a bend; here it is filled by an organised clot, which is tunnelled and has been penetrated by the injection. The vein is plugged throughout its whole length by a firm clot It terminates m a fibro-cellular cord close to the artery; a small piece of glass is inserted between them. & aSSiiSS^ni 76 Tf 2?Vth[5h T.amPutated in the lower third for acute abscess Ol the knee-joint The end of the bone made its way through the anterior flap. to]l r, p.to^ ^ JS amPutafcion' from Phthisis—See Pitcaim Ward Book, 3208 Sections of the extremity of a Stump after amputation above the knee. The lower end of the bone protrudes nearly an inch beyond the extremity of the granulations upon the soft parts. The protruded portion and that imme- diately adjacent to it had died, and were in process of exfoliation. On the surface of the section, the line of separation between the dead and the living bone is marked by an arched layer of soft fleshy substance, like a layer of granulations, which extends across the cancellous tissue, and is continued less distinctly through the compact wall. In the upper section, the periosteum and soft parts have been separated from one side of the bone. The surfaceTf the latter is left rough and irregular, and in the lower part of the PerLsteum a Z f mwH TeCmS ti8SUe taS forraed> whic* nearly surCnds that part of the shaft which was not in a state of necrosis. * From a patient in whom the femoral artery was tied for the mM nt n After U,„ oprrfta, «^t, ^ £ tdT™ dSSPSS^