\ tt DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 207 proceed. Below this part the canal of the artery is filled by a lar^e^sy^tilo^ extending from the wound to a ligature placed around the trunk of the common carotid. Below the ligature a similar clot fills the trunk to within half an inch of the division of the arteria innominata. XHT. 116 The patient was a young man. The tobacco pipe was accidentally driven through the tonsil into the artery at the angle of its bifurcation. He supposed that he had completely with- drawn it; but a portion of the pipe, an inch long, remained in the wound, closing the oriiice which it had made in the artery, and preventing haemorrhage. Extensive suppuration followed, in the course of which haemorrhage eusued. The trunk of the artery was tied seven days after (he accident; but haemorrhage recurred twice, and the patient died four days and a half after the application of the ligature. The case is related by Mr. Vincent, in the Medico-Ckirurgical Transactions, vol. xxix. London, 1846. Vide No. 1405. 1378. An Anterior Tibial Artery, in which a small lacerated aperture, completely penetrating its coats, was made by the sliarp end of a fragment of bone in a case of compound fracture. xiii. 49 Amputation was made necessary by the haemorrhage. 1379. A Posterior Tibial Artery and Vein, which were wounded a few days before death. The wound is transverse, and extends through only one side of each vessel. The clot of blood seen in the preparation was found adhering to both vessels: the regularly circumscribed cavity in it was situated exactly over the wound of the vessels. xiii. 65 1380. Arteries of a Leg, with portions of the surrounding Muscles, from a man in whom the peroneal artery was penetrated by a knife, which passed trans- versely into the back of the leg from the inner side. The track of the wound into the peroneal artery is shown by the piece of coloured glass. The peroneal artery is unusually large; the posterior tibial, into which a bristle has been introduced, is very small. The ligature was placed around the posterior tibial in the operation of searching for the wounded peroneal artery. xil. 99 The patient died with delirium tremens a week after the ligature of the posterior tibial. The direction of the wound led to the supposition that the posterior tibial artery was wounded : but the knife had passed in front of it and had not injured it. Vide No. 1462. RUPTURE OF ARTERIES. FROM EXTERNAL. VIOLENCE. 1381. The Heart and the arch of the Aorta of a man, aged 38 years, who was knocked down by a railway engine. The aorta is almost completely divided between the innominate and left carotid arteries. The blood which escaped had dissected up the fibrous tissues covering the great vessels, the roots of the lungs, and the front and sides of the parietal pericardium. The man lived for two hours after the accident. XII ^35 1382. An External Iliac Artery, torn completely and straight across. The torn ends of the artery are an inch apart, and are connected by a coagulum of blood. The coats of the artery are not obviously diseased. XIIL 55 The rupture was directly under Poupart's ligament. It occurred in an iniurv bv which the lower part of the femur was fractured. 1383. Portion of a Brachial Artery, which was torn straight across by external violence- xiii. 88 The patient, a gentleman, 69 years old, fell with his arm stretched out. At first he seemed little injured; but pulsation was found to have ceased in'the radial and ulnar arteries Tn a few hours the arm became enormously swollen and livid, and amputation near the shonhlpv was performed. The brachial artery sloughed after being tied in the amputation. Presented by Dr. James Billett.