SERIES LIL 2 l 2 ♦ UKINARY CALCULI * CALCULI OF WHICH THE NUCLEUS OR CENTRAL PORTION CONSISTS OP URIC ACID. CALCULI CONSISTING MAINLY OF URIC ACID. 1. Section of a Calculus. Uric Acid, nearly pure. From the bladder of a man aged 39. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle. 2. Large Calculus composed almost entirely of Uric Acid. Lithotomy by Mr. Savory. 3. A Calculus removed from the bladder of a man, aged 50, by lateral lithotomy. He had suffered more or less from symptoms of stone for twenty years, and for some weeks prior to the operation a large quantity of pus had been passed with the urine. The calculus weighs nine ounces, three drachms. It is composed almost entirely of Uric Acid, with mere traces of Phosphates. He recovered from the operation, but died subsequently from disorganised kidneys and uraemia. 4. A Urinary Calculus consisting almost entirely of Uric Acid, which was successfully removed by lateral lithotomy. Presented by Sir James Paget. 5. A Calculus removed after death from a man aged 53 years. It consists for the most part of Uric Acid arranged in laminae, with, in places, thin laininse of mixed Phosphates intervening. It measures three and three-quarter inches in its longest diameter, and two and a quarter inches in its shortest. It weighs thirteen and a quarter ounces. The patient had suffered for over twenty years from difficulty in micturition and vesical symptoms. None of his numerous medical attendants had sounded him. The calculus com- pletely filled the bladder. Presented by J. D. Halme, M.D. 5a. Section of a large Calculus composed throughout of pure Uric Acid. * In this Catalogue of Calculi the old nomenclature has been retained, since it is still com- 7 ^ T ? Chflc^mfvj, and the adoption of the new nomenclature would have £p ^ X* A6" w 0lpa5 th% deMrU>tl0nB- The museum is indebted to Thomas Taybr Esq F.R C.S the Analyst of the Concretions in the Museum of the Eoyal Colleee of Si^IA™ England, for the analyse of most of the Calculi, which were included h/the ca alfgueof X Pa h0