DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE INTESTINES. 301 PERFORATING ULCERS. 1965. Portions of a Duodenum and Stomach, from a young man. A circular ulcer with smooth abrupt margins has completely penetrated the coats of the duodenum close to the pylorus. XVI* The patient had a hernia, and the signs of peritonitis, produced by the escape of the contents of the duodcuum through the ulcer, so nearly coincided with an apparent increase ot the protrusion, that it was supposed that the hernia had become strangulated. Previous to the perforation of the intestine, the patient had been subject to dyspepsia. He died about fourteen hours after the commencement of the peritonitis. 1966. The commencement of the Duodenum and pyloric orifice of the stomach. About half an inch beyond the pylorus there is a small ulcer, which has perforated the duodenum. The mucous membrane around the ulcer is thickened. From a man, aged 22 years, who had suffered from pain after food for four months. Finally, a sudden acute attack of pain was followed by peritonitis, and death within twenty- four horn's.—See Path. Soc. Trans., vol. xxxi, 1881. Presented by Dr. Norman Moore. 1967. A large Ulcer of the Duodenum. The ulcer is situated just outside the pyloric orifice of the stomach, on the lower and anterior surface of the duodenum. The base of the ulcer, which is much more extensive than the orifice, is formed almost entirely by the pancreas, which has become dense and cicatricial from the formation of connective tissue. At the lower and anterior part of the ulcer, in front of the pancreas, is a perforation which was the cause of death. On microscopic examination, the base of the ulcer was found to be formed of cica- tricial tissue alone. There was no evidence of a new growth. The patient was a gentleman, 56 years old, who for two or three years before his death suffered at first occasionally, and later almost daily, from pain to the right of the epigastrium about two hours after a full meal. Occasionally there was an exacerbation with pyrosis. Shortly before death he had several severe attacks of nielsena and occasional vomiting, the vomit containing sarcinse ventriculi. The patient had constitutional syphilis. Presented by Mr. F. S. Eve. 1968. A convolution of the Jejunum. An irregular ulcer of uncertain nature completely through the coats of its two contiguous and adherent portions. xvi. 14 ULCERATION FOLLOWING BURNS AND SCALDS. 1969. A Duodenum, with part of a Stomach. There are two oval ulcers about half an inch in diameter, and many of smaller size, in the mucous membrane of the duodenum. The two large ulcers have extended beyond the mucous mem- brane, and penetrated all the coats of the intestine. One of them is closed by the contiguous adherent surface of the pancreas: the other opened into the cavity of the abdomen. XVI 55 Fi "om a child, about 10 years of age, who died suddenly during the progress of recovery from a burn. DYSENTERY. 1970. Swollen and villous appearance of the Mucous Lining of a portion of large intestine anterior to ulceration. XVI ±qq From a case of dysentery. 1971. A similar specimen, showing commencing ulceration, involving especially the various rugae. XVI -q^ 1972. Portion of Intestine, of which all the coats are thickened. The mucous membrane is thrown into irregular eminences, which exhibit a rou«-h surface and numerous minute points of ulceration. 0 xtl 17 From a patient who died with clysent Ty.