489 GENERAL PATHOLOGY. those of the natural bones of the skeleton, are filled with healthy looking marrow. The outer portion of the tumour consists of a layer of greyish-white transparent cartilage, like that of the foetal skeleton, investing the osseous part, and itself invested by a layer of fibrous tissue. The general form of the tumour is an irregular oval, and its surface is deeply nodulated. xxxv. 50 It was removed from a man between 20 and 30 years old. He recovered from the operation. 3259. A portion of an Exostosis, composed of cancellous tissue, and covered with a layer of hyaline cartilage. It was removed by operation from the outer surface of the head of the humeniS of a young ©hud. 3260. Part of the Falx Cerebri wi.h an isolated portion of bone imbedded in it. vi. 82 CARTILAGINOUS TUMOURS—ENCHONDROMATA. 3261. An oval Tumour as large as a goose's egg. It is composed of distinct irregularly shaped masses of cartilage, the surfaces of which are finely nodulated. The masses are united together by fine bands and filaments of delicate connective tissue. The tumour is surrounded by a definite capsule, which is firmly adherent to the cartilaginous mass; within the portion of the capsule reflected two small, firm, fibrous nodules are seen; nodules of cartilage are also attached to it by delicate threads. On section, the nodules or masses of cartilage present a uniform aspect; in some there are small patches of calcification; in others, the whole mass is calcified and extremely hard (a section of such a mass is suspended in the bottle). Connected with the capsule, several bands or stalks of connective tissue were found, on which large and small nodules of firm fibro-cellular tissue were arranged like grapes on a stalk. One of these also is suspended. Microscopic Examination.—The nodules were composed of fibro-cartilage, except those indicated in the description, which consisted of dense fibrous tissue. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 159. The tumour, which projected from the inner side of the arm, just below the axilla, was removed from a young woman, aged 29 years ; it was first noticed six years before, and was not adherent to the skin or deeper tissues. Hard masses were felt in the axilla, winch were supposed to be enlarged glands, but turned out to be masses of cartilage.—See Lucas Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 325. Also account of case by W. H. Cripps, Esq., Transactions of the Patho- logical Society, vol. xxxi, 1880. 3262. Section of a very soft Cartilaginous Tumour, removed from below a woman's clavicle. The tumour is irregularly oval, lobed, from three to four inches m its diameters, invested (except at the surface of the section) with a thin fibro-cellular capsule. It consists of a very soft substance, which, when recent, was yellow and pale reel, viscid and flickering, but is now nearly pure white, and floats out in the alcohol, like the flocculi of mucus. On microscopic examination, it yielded cartilage structures, and a peculiar filamentous tissue. xxxv. 101 The patient was 45 years old. Her mother died with hard cancer of the breast. This tumour had been increasing without pain for eight years, was sub-cutaneous and movable Another tumour, probably of the same nature, was fixed to the right frontal eminence. In the six months following the operation, she had no return of disease ; neither did the tumour on the forehead increase. UJ1 The case is related, and drawings of the microscopic structures are engraved, in Sir James Paget s Lectures on Pathology," Third Edition, p. 511. Presented by Mr. Edward Bickcrsteth. 3263. A large oval Tumour, composed of a uniform, pale, and very dense