SERIES XLVIII. —♦— DISEASES OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. SIMPLE CYSTS. 3142. Portion of a Mammary Gland, in which is imbedded a simple thin-walled cyst with a smooth and polished internal surface. The cyst was filled with a clear fluid. XXXIV- 3 3143. A Cyst (galactocele) removed from a "breast in which it lay deep within or behind the mammary gland. It was of nearly spherical shape, thin-walled, and loosely connected with the adjacent parts ; its inner surface, now everted, is nearly smooth, polished, and of a pale brown colour. Some small portions of a white, fatty substance, like spermaceti, adhere to it. xxxiv. 31 3144. The quarter part of the contents of the Cyst last described; viz., about three ounces of a creamy, pale fawn-coloured liquid, with small white particles floating in it. It resembles the fluid contents of certain sebaceous cysts. xxxiv. 32 3145. A Cyst, the contents of which resembled inspissated milk (galactocele). It was removed from the mammary gland of a young woman, where it had existed for eighteen months without any material augmentation of its size. xxxiv. 33 3146. A portion of a Breast, removed by operation, showing a smooth-walled cyst of the size of a hazel-nut, which contained a serous fluid. The gland tissue in which the cyst lies is tough and fibrous, but otherwise appears normal. Microscopic Examination—The cyst was immediately surrounded by fibrous tissue contain- ing at intervals slit-like and tri-radiate cavities lined with epithelium (ill-developed gland- tlSThe parts were removed from a lady, aged 39 years ; she had noticed a lump in the breast for nine months. No fluctuation could be detected over the cyst. Presented by G-. W. Callender, Esq. PROLIFEROUS CYSTS. 3147. A Proliferous Cyst of the Mammary Gland. The cyst was as large as a small orange, and contained a yellowish-brown fluid; part of its outer surface was adherent to the under surface of the mammary gland, the other part to the skin in the neighbourhood of the nipple. The wall of the cyst is tough and fibrous its inner surface is stained of a yellowish-brown colour ; at one point a small compressed orifice is seen like that of a dilated duct. That part of the wall which was adherent to the skin is thinned and dilated into a pouch, from the inner surface of which a papillated growth sprouts: on the outer surface, which was adherent to the skin, two small secondary cysts, nearly as large as