324 HERNIJE OR PROTRUSIONS, AND OTHER UNUSUAL CONDITIONS ASSOCIATED WITH INGUINAL HERNIA. MALPOSITION OF TESTIS. 2131. Inguinal Hernia. The testicle has not passed through the inguinal ring ; it was found within the canal, and is connected with the upper part of the hernial sac. The testicle is smaller than natural, but its structure is healthy. The lower part of the epididymis is removed from the body of the testicle, and passes down the posterior part of the hernial sac. The vas deferens also passes alontr the same part, and, becoming small and very tortuous, reaches nearly as far as the end of the epididymis just described. A loop of black silk is placed between these two portions of what may be regarded as an unravelled . r xvii. 1 epididymis. Vide Nos. 2136, 2166. SEPARATION OF CONSTITUENTS OF CORD. 2132. Inguinal Hernia, exhibiting the separation and displacement of the vessels of the Spermatic Cord. The spermatic artery and the vas deferens are situated close together on the inner and posterior part of the sac ; the spermatic veins are nearly an inch distant from them. Large fasciculi of the cremaster muscle are interlaced over the front of the hernial sac. xvii. 14 Vide No. 2115. COMPLICATED "WITH HYDROCELE. 2133. Inguinal Hernia combined with Hydrocele. The enlarged tunica vaginalis is situated in front of the hernia;. the testicle is at its lower part. The hernial sac is large ; it communicated with the abdomen by a wide orifice, and there is a portion of omentum adherent to its lower part. There are some adhesions between the two surfaces of the tunica vaginalis. xvii. 50 Vide Nos. 2115, 2120. 2134. Inguinal Hernia combined with Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis. The hernial sac extends downwards to a short distance behind the upper part of the distended tunica vaginalis. xvn- WITH HYDROCELE AND HYDROCELE OF CORD. 2135. Inguinal Hernia, combined with Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis, and hydrocele of the spermatic cord immediately above the testicle. The hernial sac is situated above the hydroceles ; its coverings are very thick. xvn. 3 HERNIA INTO THE VAGINAL PROCESS OF THE PERITONEUM. CONGENITAL HERNIA. 2136 Part of the right Innominate Bone with Poupart's Ligament, and part of the abdominal wall. Just above and parallel with Poupart's ligament is an incision through the aponeurosis of the external oblique made m the operation of herniotomy. Protruding through the incision and occupying the patent canal of the vaginal process of peritoneum is an undescended ill-developed testicle and on its outer side a knuckle of intestine, which has been inserted to show the position occupied by the strangulated gut. The extremity of the vaginal process protrudes from the external ring. From a bov aeed 12 years, who was operated on for a hernia into the vaginal process of peritoneum (congenital hernia). The testicle on that side had remained in the inguinal end, r,t a hernia had nerer before descended. The intestine had been strangulated nearly three Says^befoTthe operation was performed. Death resulted from peritonitis.-See CoUton Ward Book, vcl. vi, p. 40.