DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. us glass now shows their continuity.) The cavity of the body of the uterus, which is greatly dilated, was filled with pus; its walls are thinned; its mucous membrane was intensely vascular. xxxn. 52 Presented by Mr. Brendon. ATRESIA OF THE CERVIX UTERI. 2957. A Uterus, exhibiting atresia of the cervix. The rest of its cavity is dilated. The extremities of the Fallopian tubes are adherent to the ovaries. xxxn. 13 Vide No. 2944. HYPERTROPHY OP THE CERVIX UTERI. 2958. A Uterus, of which the body is atrophied and flattened, while the part which projects into the vagina is very large and changed in shape, so as to give the appearance of a tumour of the cervix. xxxn. 31 2959. An Os Uteri and part of an elongated Cervix, removed by operation. The enlargement, due to a hypertrophy of the fibrous tissue contained in these parts, caused such inconvenience to the patient from its induration and projec- tion into the vagina as to necessitate its removal. xxxn. 68 2960. Part of a Cervix Uteri, removed by operation. It is enlarged and hard, and its surface is nodulated. The os uteri is wide and irregularly fissured at its sides. A section of the portion removed displays an interior structure which differs little from the healthy character of the uterine tissue. xxxn. 17 A Drawing is preserved, No. 502. 2961. Simple Hypertrophy, with superficial ulceration of a cervix uteri, removed by the ecraseur. 2962. Section of a Uterus and of a firm Fibrous Polypoid Mass which has grown from nearly the whole circumference of its neck. A ligature was placed around the growth near the line of its connection with the uterus ; but the death of the woman took place before the ligature had separated. A portion of glass occupies the groove in which the ligature was tied, and it will be observed that this groove, in a part of its extent, is formed in the substance of the uterus, the neck of which is elongated and almost imbedded in the upper part of the polypus. xxxn. 3 TUMOURS. MUCOUS POLYPI. 2963. A Mucous Polypus of the cervix uteri. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 2964. A Uterus, in the walls of which many Fibrous Tumours have grown. One, more than an inch in diameter, is inclosed in the upper and posterior wall, and projects far into the cavity, covered with a thin layer of muscular and mucous tissue. Three, of small size, are seated near the right Fallopian tube, just under the peritoneum. Another polypus, probably mucous, is suspended by a narrow pedicle, half an inch long, from the anterior wall, just within the internal os. This last, projecting and pendulous beyond the os uteri, is elongated, oval, and apparently softened and changed in texture, in consequence of its pedicle having been tied shortly before death. xxxn. 49 The patient was 40 years old, and had suffered with menorrhagia for two or three years. The pedicle of the growth was tied with a double canula; but on the following day dysuria ensued, then retention of urine, then signs of peritonitis, and death occurred on the third day after that of the operation. Presented by Mr. E. C. May. 2965. A Uterus, with an expanded cavity, to which several Mucous Polypi are attached. xxxn. 40 Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan.