126 INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). femur,—itself also covered by compact bone,—was connected by ligamentous tissue. The fracture through the trochanter is completely united by bone. in. 76 NECROSIS OF FRACTURED BONES (Deviations from the Ordinary Process of Repair in consequence of). 866. Portion of a Humerus, which has been fractured near the middle of its shaft. New bone is formed upon its outer surface, immediately above and below the fracture. The extremity of the lower portion of the bone has perished, and is in process of exfoliation. The fractured surfaces were united by soft connective tissue ; and a distinct capsule has been formed around the ends of the bone by the condensation of the surrounding cellular tissue. III. 58 From a girl 23 years old. The fracture was caused by external violence six years before death ; she was at the time affected with syphilis. Presented by William Taylor, Esq. 867. Section of the shaft of a Femur, exhibiting a fistulous cavity in its interior, with Necrosis of a small portion of the inner layers of its wall. Two bristles are placed in a groove extending to some depth between the dead, and the contiguous living, bone. A vascular membrane, having a soft velvet-like surface, lines the fistulous cavity in the bone. I. 176 The limb was removed by amputation. Thirty-five years previous to the amputation, the fenmr was fractured; this was followed by abscess in the soft parts, and the formation of a fistulous passage extending into the cavity in the interior of the bone, which passage remained open during the whole period from the time of the fracture to the removal of the limb. Presented by James Pritchard, Esq., Leamington. 868. The other half of the bone, No. 867, macerated. I. 177 869. A Tibia, showing a fracture at the centre of the shaft. There is no osseous union, but the fragments are kept in apposition by fibrous tissue continuous with the thickened periosteum. The ends of the bone are sclerosed and thickened, and the medullary canal is obliterated for some distance. Two or three small fragments of necrosed bone were found between the fractured extremities. The specimen was taken from a boy aged 11, who sustained a compound fracture of the leg by direct violence. The fracture apparently united, and he was sent to the convalescent home, but returned in a fortnight with slight inflammation about the fracture, and febrile symptoms, followed by pysemia, of which he died six and a half months after the occurrence of the fracture.—See Colston Ward Book, vol. v, p. 316. 870. Portions of a Tibia and Fibula, which suffered Necrosis after a compound fracture. The fractured ends of both bones overlap, and exfoliation of the ends of the tibia has commenced. There is a superficial groove between the dead and the living bone, with an irregular deposit of new bone upon the contiguous surface of the latter. I. 87 871. Section of a Tibia, in which a compound fractnre occurred six months before death. The fractured surfaces, displaced and overlapping, are consolidated by bony matter. The extremity of one of the portions of fractured bone, separated either by the fracture or by exfoliation, lies loose in a cavity between the fractured surfaces. The portion of bone at the bottom of the bottle was found loose in the same cavity. III. 99 872. Sections of a Tibia and a Fibula, from the same limb as the preceding speci- men. The tibia is broken about one-third from its upper end ; and its two portions, separated to some distance from each other, are held together by new bone abundantly deposited around their external surfaces. Separate fragments of bone were found loose in the osseous cavity between the ends of the fractured portions. A small detached portion of the wall of the tibia has also been driven