565 CASTS AND MODELS OP DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. to his work as a lamp-lighter, and very gradually his foot was again displaced; yet without great damage to his power of progression. 32. A partial Dislocation of the Foot outwards from the tibia, with fracture of the lower extremity of the fibula. 33. A Cast, showing a somewhat similar condition. 34. Displacement of the Foot outwards and somewhat backwards, with fracture of the Fibula. 35. Cast of a Leg, with dislocation of the Foot straight backwards from the aukle-joint, and fracture of the fibula a short distance above its malleolus. INJURIES OF JOINTS (Dislocations, Ac). 36. A Cast showing a recent Dislocation of the acromial end of the clavicle, upwards and backwards. Presented by L. Holden, Esq. 37. Cast of a Shoulder, with an old dislocation of the humerus, the head of the bone lying immediately below the coracoid process of the scapula. The parts are preserved in Series IV, No. 1020. 38. Cast of a Shoulder, with the head of the humerus dislocated into the axilla. 39. Cast of a Shoulder, with the head of the humerus dislocated upon the dorsum of the scapula. The head of the humerus rested against the inferior surface and outer edge of the spine of the scapula, its anterior edge being worn in adaptation to the posterior margin of the lower half of the glenoid cavity. Dislocation occurred long before death. The humerus was also fractured in the middle of its shaft. The bones are preserved in Series IV, No. 1027. 40. Cast of a Shoulder, with the head of the humerus recently dislocated upon the infra-spinous fossa of the scapula. 41. Cast of an Elbow, with the radius and ulna dislocated on the posterior surface of the lower end of the humerus. 42. Cast of an adult Elbow, with a prominence at the outer part of the joint, due to a dislocation of the head of the radius, which occurred in early life. The head of the radius appears to have been in relation with the outer surface of the external condyle of the humerus; but the motions of the joint were perfect. 43. Cast of the Fore-arm and Hand of a woman in whom the hand was dis- located from the radius and ulna in early childhood. The ulna projected far backwards, and the little finger diverging from the rest, was directed backwards and inwards. Its was not known whether the dislocations were produced by violence or in consequence of disease. 44. Cast of a Dislocation of the Carpus backwards, from the radius and ulna. From a man, who fell a height of forty feet, sustaining at the same time several other injuries, from which he recovered. 45. Cast of a left Hand and Fore-arm. The hand and carpus together are con- siderably displaced forwards and to the radial side, so that the outline of the articular surface of the ulna, and almost the whole of that of the radius, can be traced. Flexion was scarcely at all impaired ; extension much more so. The