384 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. foramina, with a firm, white, caseous substance, like softening tubercle, deposited in the tissues covering the posterior part of the spine, from the second to the sixth dorsal vertebra. More superficially, there were deposits of pus beneath the trapezius and other muscles of the back. The tumour was loosely connected with both the dura mater and the vertebrae. The vertebra? were softened, but in other respects healthy. 2535. Part of the Dorsal Portion of a Spinal Cord, with a thick irregular layer of lymph and tubercular matter surrounding the dura mater, and slightly compressing the cord. Both the cord and the dura mater appear healthy in their texture. vn. 10 The patient was a young man who had paraplegia, which he believed to have originated in a sprain. Tubercular matter was deposited in and upon the adjacent vertebrae; and some of their intervertebral cartilages, as well as their own texture, were destroyed. There was no dis- tortion of the spine. Vide No. 2543. TUMOURS (and Allied Morbid Growths). CARTILAGINOUS OR BONE-LIKE PLATES IN THE MEMBRANES. 2536. Portion of a Spinal Cord, exhibiting two small thin plates of a milk- white substance, like cartilage, connected with the arachnoid membrane. VII. 1 2537. A similar specimen. vu. 2 2538. The Lumbar Portion of a Spinal Cord, with the roots of the nerves and its membranes. There are numerous thin white plates of substance like car- tilage connected with the arachnoid membrane, especially with that portion of it which covers the posterior surface of the cord. vu. 5 Prom a woman, 40 years old, who, for many years, had suffered severely from neuralgia in the left knee-joint. * FIBROUS TUMOUR. 2539. Portion of the Dura Mater enveloping the bundle of nerves constituting the Cauda Equina. A tumour, of a firm fibrous texture, is connected with the external surface of the dura mater, and being wholly contained within the spinal canal, made considerable pressure upon the nerves. vu. 4 The patient, 33 years old, was suddenly seized with pains in the loins and paraplegia, and with acute pain affecting the lower extremities. The paralysis extended upwards ; sloughs formed on the sacrum j and he died two months after the beginning of his illness. CANCER. 2540. The Cervical Portion of a Spine. A soft brain-like tumour is seen pro- jecting on the left side of the column, and surrounding the nerves, some of which are enlarged and infiltrated. The growth is attached to the posterior surface of the dura mater, and the left side and posterior surface of the spinal cord is slightly compressed from the fourth to the sixth vertebras. A portion of the fourth cervical vertebra is softened and infiltrated with the growth. The tumour was found on microscopic examination to be a carcinoma. There was a growth having the same naked-eye characters in the pancreas, and secondary deposits were found in the hver. From a man, aged 46 years, who, when first seen, complained of pain and loss of power in the left upper arm. The deltoid and biceps muscles wasted, and after an interval the left arm became completely paralysed. Later he gradually lost power in the right arm, and finally paralysis of the legs and apparently of the intercostal muscles supervened.—See St. Bartholomew Hospital Reports, vol. xv, p. 257. 2541. The upper portion of the Spinal Cord of a man aged 35 years. On the anterior surface between two and three inches below the medulla oblongata, a