INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). HI See aho Series I, No. 8, and No. 785. . Jbr Specimens of Spontaneous Fracture of Necrosed Bones, see Series I, Nos. 157 and lb7. GUNSHOT AND OTHER SIMILAR INJURIES. 761. A Skull-Cap with the Dura Mater, showing the apertures of ingress and egress of a bullet which passed through it transversely. The aperture of ingress, just above the right angular process of the frontal bone, is small and round ; that of egress, below the left parietal eminence, is as large as a shilling and the edge is broken away externally. The history is unknown. 762. A Skull. Through the squamous portion of the right temporal bone, at its junction with the parietal, a bullet has passed. There is a larger irregular aperture on the left side of the occipital bone probably made by the bullet in its exit. C. 132 (In Case H.) 763. Portion of a Sternum fractured upon its internal surface by a bullet, which has become firmly imbedded in the surface of the bone, and in new bone deposited around it so as to form a shallow pit. in. 37 764. A right Innominate Bone; on the outer side of the ilium is a large circular aperture, and around it are many indentations, in some of which the shots pro- ducing them are seen impacted in the osseous tissue. c. 119 (In Case H.) From a boy 17 years of age, who died sixteen days after having been accidentally shot by a companion. He progressed favourably for a time, but, on the twelfth day, he was seized with rigors, and suffered from a great increase of pain about the region of the wound. He sank rapidly. A probe introduced along the track of the shot detected bone denuded of periosteum ; it being suspected that pus had formed on the pelvic aspect of the ilium, the surface of that bone was exposed, and the opening, conspicuous in the preparation, was made with the tre- phine. No benefit resulted to the patient, and the haemorrhage which ensued from the iliac fossa was with great difficulty restrained. After death the hip-joint was found full of pus, its synovial membrane highly congested, and its cartilage natural. There was extensive suppuration throughout the right pyriformis muscle, and puriform fluid in the internal iliac vein. 765. Part of a Femur from the body of a Russian whose limb was carried off by a round shot at the battle of Cherneya. c. 123 (In Case H.) 766. Portion of a Femur, the internal condyle of which was extensively com- minuted by a bullet, which penetrated the knee-joint. Several fissures extend through the bone in the neighbourhood of the injixry, one of which passes along the shaft as high as the sawn extremity. The bullet was found after death in the position where it is now fixed. From a Servian, who was wounded at Alexinatz, September, 1876. The bullet could not be discovered during life; he refused to submit to amputation and died of exhaustion. Presented by Dr. Schofield. 767. A Gun-shot injury to the Tibia : there is an oblique Comminuted Fracture through the upper third of the bone : a fissure is also seen to pass round the bone at the level of the upper limit of the fracture. From a Servian, who was wounded in the Turco-Servian War, 1876. Presented by Dr. Schofield. 768. The Femur and Tibia of a Cat. A fracture of the femur near the middle of the shaft, has been united by bone formed around and between the ends of the overlapping fragments. A small leaden bullet is fixed in the tibia near its head ; a fracture in this situation is nearly united, and without displacement by bone deposited around it. m -Q5 Presented by Thomas Wormald, Esq.