CpSSa^* 6 SUPen0r ^ mfGri0r «^*»" ™* the effect of gr tiy YesseiTng / i , - PISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. ' • ] 69 parts aBove and below the line of fracture. By the removal of the spines and arches of the vertebrae, the spinal cord is shown to have been nearly torn across at a spot immediately opposite to the injured bone. The accident happened three months before death. 1143. Portion of a Spine, showing a comminuted fracture of the last Cervical Vertebra. The anterior portion of the body is pressed forwards, and the pos- terior portion backwards, into the spinal canal, by the approximation of the vertebrae above and below it.—See Lancet, 1839-40, p. 572. Presented by W. F. Barlow, Esq. 1144. Section of the last three Cervical and first three Dorsal Vertebrae, showing a comminuted fracture with considerable displacement, which has been followed by anchylosis. C. 130 1145. Portion of a Spine, in which there is an extensive comminuted fracture of the arches and bodies of the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebrae. Ty, Q 1146. Section of a Spine, in which there is a fracture of a Dorsal Vertebra, either the third or the fourth. The front of its body is crushed between the vertebra) above and below it, and the posterior part has been driven backwards into the spinal canal, and has completely divided the cord. The spinous and articular processes of the fractured vertebrae are torn away from those of the vertebra above it, leaving- a wide gap at the posterior part of the spinal column. iv. 1 1147. Portion of a Spine, including the lower Cervical and upper Dorsal Ver- tebras. A fracture extends obliquely through the upper and anterior part of the fourth dorsal vertebra, and the bodies of the third and fourth vertebrae are torn asunder. The spinal cord is diffluent opposite the seat of the injury. From a man who injured his spine by a fall down the hold of a ship. Immediately after the accident tne spmes and laminse of the injured and adjoining vertebras were removed by an operation, performed by Mr. Willett, with relief of the existing symptoms of compression of the cord On the fifteenth day after the operation, while the patient was being moved f rom one becUoanother-the spine not being supported—he became completely paraplegic, and died three or four days afterwards. r r 8 ' 1148. Portion of a Spine, in which a fracture extends obliquely through the body of the tenth dorsal vertebra, its superior articular processes, and the inferior articular and spinous processes of the ninth dorsal vertebra. D. 1 (In Case C.) 1149. Portion of a Spine, with a transverse fracture through the body of the twelfth, and a vertical one through that of the eleventh, dorsal vertebra. d 3 (In Case C.) 1150. Portion of a Spine, including the lower Dorsal and upper Lumbar Vertebrae A transverse fracture now united, extends obliquely downwards and forwards through the body of the first lumbar vertebra. The upper fragment of the fractured vertebra, with the upper portion of the spinal column, is carried forwards and rests on the upper and anterior part of the lower Wment to which it is connected by callus. The articular processes between" the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebras are widely separated. From a man aged 29 years, who whilst wheeling a barrow filled with gravel was knocked down by the sudden fall of a tree on to his back6 When examined soo/after'the iniZ ™ angular projection was discovered in the dorsodumbar region. Extension was made by « ™f