170 DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. He lived for more than a year after the accident.-See Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xvii, 1832. Presented by Mr. Barlow. 1151. The first Lumbar Vertebra of the man from whom specimen 2549, Series XXXI, was taken. There is a nearly horizontal fracture through tUe body. When examined, the cleft was a little open in front, but there was no material displacement of either fragment. Vide No. 1074. SEPARATION (DISLOCATION) OF THE VERTEBRAE, WITH OR WITHOUT FRACTURE. 1152. An Atlas and Axis. The odontoid process has been dislocated in such a manner as to leave a very narrow space only for the spinal cord, and the bones have subsequently become anchylosed. Thev were found in a graveyard at Aberdeen, and presented by Mr. George Banks. Tl!ey aredescribed by Sir James Paget in the Medico-Chirurgical Transacts, vol. m 1848. 1153 Model of an Atlas and Axis. The atlas is dislocated, and the odontoid process fractured. The spinal cord was not injured. iv. oU The case is described by H. B. Phillips, Esq., in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xx, 1837, p. 78. 1154 The Cervical Spine of a Man, aged 24 years, who fell out of the first floor window of a house. The fourth cervical vertebra is dislocated forwards from the fifth ; the intervertebral fibro-cartilage is ruptured but there is ^fracture of the bodies of the vertebrae. The superior articular processes of the fifth vertebra are placed posterior to the corresponding inferior processes of the fourth, and the tip of the right inferior articular process of the latter is broken off The cord is compressed by the projecting upper part of the body of the fifth vertebra, but is not lacerated. The spines of the fourth and fifth vei^ebr* ^re widely separated, but there is no lateral displacement. There was at first complete paralysis of the trunk and legs, subsequently the arms became para- lysed. The patient survived the accident eleven days.-See Kenton Ward Book, vol. v, p. 406. 11^5 Sections of a Spine, in which there is a complete dislocation of the bodies ,ndtr^Zv%eLsoi the fourth and fifth cervical vertebra,, without any fracture The fourth vertebra is carried forwards, so that the posterior margin o£ s body rests on the anterior margin of the body of the fifth and the apex of its spinous process rests on the base of the spinous process of the fifth. IV. 12 The mtient a robust man, 22 years old, fell with a heavy weight on his head and the upper m^f ht neck. He was immediately deprived of aU sensation m the trunk and limbs, and Pf nil nm^r over the voluntary muscles of those parts. He died three days and a half after tL fall The case is described by Sir. W. Lawrence in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xiii, P- 394. London, 1825. 1156 Portion of a spine, in which there is dislocation of the articular processes of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae, with fracture of the lower edge of the lpft inferior articular process of the fourth, and a separation of the intervertebral fiwSgS uniting the bodies of the fourth and fifth, and of the fifth and sixth. 1157 Portion of a Spine, in which there is dislocation of the bodies and articular meases of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebras, with fracture of the upper margin oi! the body, and of the arch, of the fifth. The body of the fourth