GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 494 bottle the right kidney is suspended with which the tumour was in contact. The organ appears healthy, but presents on its anterior surface a concavity, over which the parenchyma is exposed, apparently by the pressure of the tumour. In histological structure, the tumour consists of striped muscle fibre for the most part arranged in fasciculi; and nodules of round-cell tissue are scattered throughout it. The individual muscle fibres are long, very narrow, distinctly striated, but the sarcolemma is indistinguishable. The specimen was taken from the body of a child, aged 15 months, who came under treatment for a swelling in the right flank, which was soft, semi-fluctuating, and about the size of a hen's egg. This tumour grew rapidly, and its increase in size was attended with loss of strength and disturbance of the digestive organs, until at last the respiratory apparatus was encroached upon. Death took place from collapse. For a further account of the case see a paper by Mr. Eve in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, 1881. Presented by E. A. Brickwell, Esq. SARCOMATA. ROUND-CELL SARCOMA. 3294. Half of a round-cell Sarcoma, from the back of a boy, aged 11 years, who had other similar tumours on different parts of the body ; one higher up on the back ; a second over one hip; a third on the front of the chest; and a tumour of each testicle. Two tumours had been previously removed from the forehead, and one from the parotid region; these had existed about three years. The tumours followed each other slowly at first, but more rapidly later. In microscopic characters all the tumours, which were removed, precisely resembled each other, including the tumours of the testes. They consisted of round cells in a fine fibrous stroma, which was much more abundant than is usual in the sarcomata. See an account of the case by Mr. Butlin, in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxx, p. 396, 1879, and Colston Ward Book, vol. v, p. 178 ; also Pitcairn Ward Book, vol. v, p. 49. A microscopic specimen of the tumour of the testicle is preserved, No. 121. 3295. Section of the lower end of a Femur. The extremity of the diaphysis is surrounded for about four inches by a sarcomatous tumour, which projects especially on the posterior surface. The tumour is almost entirely ossified and contains a few small cysts. The entire thickness of the femur was sur- rounded by the new growth; the bone is condensed and indurated, but does not appear infiltrated. The histological elements of the tumour are round and elongated cells. The specimen was taken from a young man, aged 16 years, by amputation through the thi<*h. Four months before admission to the Hospital he noticed a swelling above the left knee, which arose spontaneously. It gradually increased in size, accompanied by aching pain. —See Kenton Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 33. 3296. Sections of two Tumours. The largest tumour occupied the situation of the mammary gland: it is an oval mass, with a smooth external surface, and formed of a pale, uniformly firm substance. The smaller tumour seemed to be formed by enlargement and change of structure of the axillary lymphatic glands. It consists of the same kind of substance, but presented a distinct portion of a dark brown colour and of a very soft texture, like a mass of medullary substance with blood effused in it. The tumour was a round-celled sarcoma, having some resemblance to the lympho-sarcomata. xxxiv. 9 From a girl 16 years old. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 163. GLIOMA (Glio-Sarcoma). 3297. A Glioma of the Retina. A vertical section through the optic nerve and eyeball shows a firm growth of a white colour, commencing at the entrance of