SEEIES XLIX. ANATOMY OF STUMPS AFTER AMPUTATION OF LIMBS. CONDITIONS OF THE BONES OF STUMPS. CLOSURE OF THE MEDULLARY CANAL. 3189. Portion of a Femur from a Stump. The medullary cavity is completely closed, and there are two pointed processes of bone which extend upwards from the posterior part of the end of the femur and probably afforded attachment to the flexor muscles. 3190. The Stumps of a Tibia and Fibula after amputation just below the knee. Their medullary cavities are nearly closed by a layer of bone, and they are scarcely reduced in size ; but their texture is very light and greasy. A. 159 After the amputation the stump healed; but it ulcerated afresh as often as the patient returned to his work : a second amputation was therefore performed, and the patient did well. 3191. Section of a Tibia from a Stump, exhibiting the reparative changes which have taken place in the sawn end of the bone. The medullary cavity is closed by a thin layer of new bone, and other thin osseous deposits are formed around the end of the stump. i. 120 3192. Portions of a Tibia and Fibula from a Stump. At the extremity of each bone the medullary cavity is completely closed by new bone; and a bridge of new bone extends between the tibia and fibula, uniting them firmly together. I. 122 3193. The greater portion of the left Tibia and Fibula of a woman, aged 35. The two bones are joined by an intermediate portion of new bone at their lower ends. For some distance above this, the surfaces, especially that of the fibula, are roughened by the deposition of new bone, the most abundant of these deposits corresponding to the situaton of ulcers in the soft parts. Both bones are lighter than natural, the compact wall being reduced in thickness. The leg was amputated, in the first instance inits lower third, for disease of the ankle joint, the stump progressed very favourably for a few weeks, but never quite closed ; subsequently ulcera- tion commenced in the linear wound and adjacent cicatrix and very gradually extended over the extremity of the stump. Other ulcers afterwards formed higher up the limb. The general health seemed to be unaffected. All attempts to heal the ulceration having failed, a second amputation was performed just below the knee-joint by double flaps of the integu- ments. The second stump healed rapidly and completely. ADHESION OF THE TENDONS TO THE EXTREMITY OF THE BONE. 3194. A Foot, of which the toes and metatarsal bones have been amputated.