103 DISEASES OF JOINTS. Tint specimen preoiselj answers to the descripteon of, and is probably fcha , 1 >ed hy Mr.Smeein the iww^ 1845. The intracapsular portion of the tendon oi tliebicepswas won, through, and the tendon was attached to the bicipital groove; in consequence ot which the head of the humerus was drawn up against the acromial process. (In Case G.) CHANGES IN JOINTS DUE TO GOUT. 707 and 707a. The hands of an old woman who was brought to the hospital for dissection. The fingers are bulbous and extremely short, and a section shows that tlie soft tissues are laden with urate of soda. Many of the large joints of the body were affected with chronic rheumatic arthritis. No history of the case before death could be obtained. DEPOSIT OF URATE OF SODA ON THE CARTILAGES. 708. The articular portions of two Femora and two Patella} from the same individual. A deposit of urate of soda, the effect of gout, has taken place upon the surface of their articular cartilages. n- 33 709. An Os Calcis and an Astragalus (probably from a gouty person), the articular surfaces of which are uniformly covered by a thin deposit of white earthy matter, consisting principally of urate of soda. The cartilages themselves are thin. 10 710. A Patella, the cartilage of which is whitened by a similar deposit. The bone appeal's also thickened and nodular. H- H The two preceding specimens were taken from a man between 40 and 50 years old. Nearly all the joints in the body were in a similar condition ; in some, a portion of the white substance was in a fluid state, and around some there was a similar condition in the adjacent tissues. 711. The Distal Phalanges of a Great Toe, with an extensive deposit of urate of soda in and around the joint. A large calculus in Series LII was taken from the same patient. LOOSE BODIES IN JOINTS. ATTACHED TO THE SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. 712. Portion of an Elbow-Joint, in which there are several cartilaginous growths from the internal surface of the capsule, immediately above the olecranon. Two of these are closely attached to the capsule. A third is attached to it by a round and thin pedicle, apparently formed by the synovial membrane. One portion of cartilaginous substance, which was found loose in the joint, is at the bottom of the bottle. II. 39 713. A Loose Cartilage, removed by the subcutaneous operation, from the Knee- Joint of a young man. The cartilage is of a flattened discoid shape; attached to it are the remains of the pedicle by which it was connected to the bone. 714. A Loose Cartilage, removed from the Knee-Joint. This body was not con- tained loose in the cavity of the joint, but was attached, and was removed only after its base had been divided. 715. A disc-shaped mass of Cartilaginous Substance, with a nodulated border, which was removed from the interior of the knee-joint of a young man. It is suspended by a portion of cellular tissue, by which it had probably been at one time attached to the synovial membrane. xxxv. 37