DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. 165 left, extending from tlie middle of the back to the neck. The ribs are distorted in adaptation to the curvatures of the spine. The cavity of the chest is altered in its form and dimensions: its antero-posterior axis is direct, but its sides are flattened. The pelvis is well formed, but slightly oblique. The bones of the right lower limb are considerably smaller in all their dimensions than those of the opposite limb; in partial compensation for their shortness, the posterior part of the os calcis is elongated, and pointed almost straight downwards. A. 152 (In Case A.) 1117. The Spine and Pelvis of a young person. The spine exhibits three slight lateral curves; the first, in the superior dorsal region, is directed to the left; the second, in the middle dorsal region, to the right; and the third, in the inferior dorsal and superior lumbar region, to the "left again. The pelvis is remarkably deformed. The internal surfaces of the ilia are unnaturally concave, and their crests are incurved. The ischia are approximated, so that their spines are only an inch and a quarter, and their tuberosities only half an inch, apart ■ their ascending rami are directed almost vertically and parallel to each other, with a distance of from half to three quarters of an inch between them : they are also bent and project in front of the symphysis pubis. The lower part of the sacrum is abruptly turned forwards, in a horizontal plane. While the inferior aperature of the pelvis is thus narrowed, the superior is of nearly natural dimensions. A section of one of the ilia shows that its texture is light, spongy, and soft. These changes were probably the result of mollifies ossium.' (In Case C.) D' 19 1118. A Spine and Sacrum. The spine presents two lateral curves; one in the dorsal region directed to the right, the other in the inferior dorsal and lumbar region directed to the left. The changes in the form and direction of the vertebrae are similar to those shown in No. 1115, but less in degree. d 21 (In Case C.) 1119. A Spine and Pelvis. The spine presents two lateral curves, like those in the preceding specimen. The pelvis is slightly oblique. D 22 (In Case C.) 1120. A Spine, with portions of the Ribs. The spine presents slight lateral curves m its dorsal region; the superior curve is directed to the right, the interior to he left, and they exactly compensate each other, so that the°lumbar and cervical portions of the spine lie in the same vertical plane. D 23 (In Case C.) 1121 A Spine, with two lateral curves in its dorsal region, and one in the lumbar ri"htpsiripThorde 18 surrr dorsal ^and is " com ex side of t,m °f the, v?rtebr8B a? thinner 0n the «™»™ than on the convex side of each curve, and there are thin growths of bone from their edo-es of thePcurves 6 mvertebral fibro-cartilages in each of the concavities (In Case C.) D> 32 Presented by Thomas Wormald, Esq. 1122. A Spine and Pelvis, similar to those in No. 1115 There is consider^ vertebra which are comprised m the concavity of the curve- a chano-P wlnv3. (In Case C.) 24 1123. A Spine, with portions of the Ribs. The spine presents three lateral