307 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE INTESTINES. there is superficial ulceration of the mucous surface of the intestine around the orifice of the strictured portion. From a female, aged about 55, who for about five months before death had suffered from frequent constipation, with vomiting and abdominal pain and distension. For fifty-one days before death there was no action of the bowels, except in the expulsion of gas, nor was any food taken into the stomach for the same period. She drank at intervals a little brandy and water, w ine and water, and lemona.de, occasionally a little orange juice, and the juice of a few grapes. Almost every day she vomited bile with tlie " secretions of the stomach." There was no sign of peritonitis, nor of peritoneal adhesions ; no enlarged lymphatic glands ; no deposit in the liver. The limbs were much wasted; but there was a considerable amount of fat on the abdomen, and in the mesentery and meso-colon. Presented by Mr. Briscoe. Vide Nos. 1986, 1987. MORBID GROWTHS. FIBROUS TUMOUR. 2019. Fibrous (?) Tumours in the Ileum, causing partial obstruction of the bowel and a pouch-like dilatation above them. From a woman, aged 43 years, who died from pyaemia. The case is fully described in the Medical Times and Gazette for March 3rd, 1.866. CANCER. 2020. A portion of Intestine from the lower part of the Sigmoid Flexure. The canal is almost obliterated by a growth from the mucous membrane around the whole circumference of a limited portion of the bowel, about one inch in length. A passage not larger than a crow-quill still exists through the centre of the growth. The microscope showed that the growth was a cylindrical-cell cancer. From a woman, aged 69 years, who died soon after the performance of colotomy for the relief of chronic intestinal obstruction. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 86.—See Lawrence Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 458. 2021. Portion of the Sigmoid Flexure dilated, but not materially hypertrophied, above an annular stricture of the intestinal canal. Below this stricture is a crop of exuberant granulations, springing from an irregular, warty, ulcerated surface. At the point of stricture the walls are thickened and infiltrated with a scirrhous deposit, upon which has grown the soft medullary mass seen below. A bougie is passed through the narrow portion of the canal. xvi. 127 2022. Portion of Jejunum and two portions of Ileum. In each portion of intestine there is a circular constriction by which the canal is almost completely closed. At each of the constricted parts there is a cancerous growth springing from and infiltrating the wall of the intestine in a narrow band, extending around the whole circumference of the mucous membrane. Above each of them the intestine is widely dilated, its coats are generally thickened, and the muscular coat especially appears hypertrophied. XVl. 7 The patient, a woman, 37 years old, suffered for throe years before death with attacks of constipation and severe pain in tlie abdomen. The strictures were about two feet distant from each other ; and there was another besides the three here shown. Presented by John Bury, Esq. 2023. Part of the Sigmoid Flexure of the Colon, laid open. A soft villous malignant growth springing from the mucous membrane, surrounds and almost obliterates the canal. From the body of a woman, aged 49 years, who, having had for a few weeks occasional abdominal pain and constipation, winch at length amounted to nearly complete obstmetion was suddenly attacked with extreme abdominal pain, with faintness, and died "n a slate of x 2