468 DEFORMITIES AND TUMOURS OF THE PELVIS. The following pelves, showing slight obliquity, produced by lateral curvature of the spine, are called scoliotic—-See Nos. 272 and 273 in Series I, and Nos. 1115, 1116, and 1119 in Series V. N.B.—There is no kypho-scoliotic pelvis in the collection. 3130. Spondylolisthesis. In this deformity the lowest lumbar vertebra is dislo- cated forwards on the sacrum, and encroaches on the brim. From a case described by Kwisch, &c, in Scanzoni's Beitrage zur Qeburtshulfe. Band iii, 1857. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. N B.—There is no specimen of spondylolizema in the collection. In it the deformity resembles spondylolisthesis, but arises from collapse of the vertebral column caused by the disappearance of the body of a vertebra. 3131. A female Pelvis. The left os innominatum is much smaller, thinner, and lighter than the right, apparently in consequence of impaired usefulness of the left leg. The pelvis is slightly oblique, and the outlet somewhat contracted. The left common iliac artery and its branches are much smaller than those on the right side. The head of the left femur lies in the acetabulum ; its external surface is smooth and expanded from attrition against the upper end of the shaft. Probably separation of the upper epiphysis took place at an early period of life. 3132a. A Pelvis, with anchylosed right Hip-Joint. From a person, 28 years of age, who died of disease of the brain.—See Prager, Med. Viertel- jahrschrift, 1849, S. 1.04-110. Professor Dittrich. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. Vide also No. 1125 in Series V. 3133. A Pelvis, with atrophy of one side. See Prager, Med. Vierteljahrschrift. Professor Dr. Dittrich, uber BecJcen-misstaltungen, 1849, s. 104-110. _ Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3134. A Pelvis, with an Exostosis projecting from the promontory of the sacrum. The pelvis is generally contracted. The woman died, undelivered, near Edinburgh. The uterus was ruptured. The body of the child had been separated from the head, which was found in the pelvis after death. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3135. A Pelvis, with a large Exostosis springing from the anterior surface of the sacrum, and nearly filling the cavity. See Busch and Moser's Monatszeitschrift fur GeburtsMlfe, 1854, Band x, Heft 1, s. 12. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3136. A male Pelvis, with a Bony Growth projecting from the last lumbar vertebra. , _ Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3137. A Pelvis, with an Exostosis on right venter ilii. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3138. A Pelvis, with an Osseous Growth around the right acetabulum. The outlet is contracted. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3139. Pelvis, of which the greater part was occupied by a large Tumour. The woman was delivered by embryotomy on several previous occasions. On the last occasion, the uterus ruptured during the operation, and she died. Presented by Dr. Sheckleton, by whom the case is described m the Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science.