15 DISEASES OF BONES. The enlargement is due to the thickening of their walls by separation of the lamellae, and to the formation of new bone on their surfaces. In the femur, the osseous filaments and lamellae of the cancellous tissue are thickened. a. 1 (In Case E.) 100. Section of a Tibia exhibiting various changes of structure the result of Ostitis. The cancellous tissue is in some places condensed, in others it was partially filled by inflammatory products. The bone is greatly enlarged, and several ulcerated passages lead into the medullary cavity. I. 131 (In Case E.) 101. Section of a Tibia, showing Sclerosis, the result of Chronic Ostitis. On the posterior surface, the compact wall of the shaft is much thickened; the medullary canal is obliterated. The anterior surface of the bone presents two deep excavations. These, the result of ulceration, are now partially filled in by dense scar tissue, which is continuous with the skin. The shaft of the bone is curved with the convexity forwards. From a girl aged 18, whose leg was removed by amputation. Twelve years previously the leg was squeezed in a crowd. Three years later abscesses formed about the limb, from which pieces of bone were discharged at different periods. The leg grew larger, and two large ulcers formed on its anterior surface, which penetrated the bone.—See Lucas Ward Book, vol. ii, p. 319. 102. Sections of the Tibia of a lad about 18 years of age. The left tibia is nearly an inch longer than the right; in its increase of length it has become curved, its ends, confined by their attachments to the fibula, having been hindered from separating more widely. The left tibia is increased in thickness as well as in length, chiefly by the expansion of its walls. The front wall is, in parts, an inch thick and composed of nearly uniform cancellous tissue : it is also more lengthened than the other walls. a. 46 (In Case E.) 103. Two Tibia?, the shafts of which are gently curved forwards and generally symmetrically enlarged. The chief increase is in the anterior wall, which is in some parts an inch thick, and of which the whole texture is heavy, dense, and hard. ' A 3 A Drawing of one of these Tibia? is preserved, No. 5 b (In Case F.) 104. A Tibia, the shafb of which is curved forwards and inwards, and enlarged in its upper half. On its anterior surface there are circumscribed deposits of new bone, such as are found under ulcers of the integuments. The curvature of the tibia is not like that which takes place in rickets, but like that in the two preceding specimens, which is due to the tibia becoming elongated at the same time that it enlarges, and to the separation of its ends from each other as it elongates, being prevented by its connexion with the fibula. A' 42 (In Case F.) 105. A Tibia, the shaft of which is generally enlarged, and the surface roughened and porous from chronic ostitis and periostitis. a 7 (In Case F.) 106. The Tibia of a young person, generally enlarged by the formation of new bone on its surface. q (In Case F.) A- " 107. Section of a Tibia greatly enlarged and heavy. The section shows no dis tmction between the compact and cancellous tissue, but the osseous tissue is for the most part, dense and in places finely porous. From a man who had long suffered from inflammation of the tibia.