DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. 285 1856. Portion of the (Esophagus of an elderly woman. The whole of the tissues on a part of its anterior surface are penetrated by an ulcer of an oval form with irregular edges. The base of the ulcer is formed by a mass of bronchial glands. ° ° xxiv. 15 Presented by Dr. Black. 1857. The (Esophagus of a Bullock. Numerous fringe-like processes, arranged in clusters, proiect from the mucous membrane into the interior of the canal. v J xxiv. 21 1858. A Tumour, (probable lymphadenoma), which completely surrounds the oesophagus, so compressing the tube as it lies behind the division of the trachea that its canal barely" admits the quill which is thrust along it. 94 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. PERFORATION OF THE OESOPHAGUS BY ABSCESS, ANEURISM, &c. 1859. An (Esophagus, Trachea, and adjacent parts, exhibiting the remains of an abscess, which had formed in the deep cellular tissue of the neck, and had burst in two directions, namely, through the upper part of the oesophagus, and through the right pleura into the cavity of the chest. A bougie indicates the course of the abscess on the inner side, and across the front of the sheath of the carotid artery and jugular vein. xxiv. 14 The patient was a strong man 31 years old. He was admitted into the Hospital with pneumo-thorax on the right side and general emphysema. After his death it was stated that he had had pain in his throat and difficulty of swallowing for some time before those symptoms ensued which indicated the penetration of the pleural cavity. 1860. Part of an (Esophagus and of a Trachea. Below the division of the latter the pressure of an aneurism has caused ulceration of the outer walls of the oeso- phagus, so that the mucous coat is exposed, and alone prevented perforation of the canal. 97 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. POST-MORTEM DIGESTION OF THE OESOPHAGUS. 1861. An (Esophagus, with a small portion of the Stomach. About half the cir- cumference of the walls of the oesophagus, at its lower end, is thin, soft, and pulpy, and in the centre of this part there is a large aperture with ragged floc- culent margins, partially blackened. The adjacent parts of the oesophagus and stomach are healthy. xxiv. 10 . It is probable these changes were produced after death by the action of the gastric fluid. 1862. An (Esophagus, with a portion of the Stomach. There is almost entire destruction of the coats of the oesophagus, for three inches above the stomach, and in nearly the whole circumference of the tube. The portion of the oeso- phagus which remains in this situation is pale, soft, and pulpy. The stomach appeared healthy. xxiv. 13 From a child who died in consequence of an accidental injury. No sign of affection of the stomach had existed before death, and the characters of the changes indicate that they were the result of the action of the gastric fluid after death. Vide No. 1864. INJURIES OF, AND OPERATIONS UPON THE (ESOPHAGUS. RUPTURE AND PERFORATION. 1863. An Oesophagus and Stomach, exhibiting an extensive laceration of the muscular fibres of the former, which occurred in the act of vomiting. Both