INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). H (J (In Case EE.) tan. Tho fragments are united, with considerable displacement, by several short bridges of bone extending between them. The shaft of the femur is completely everted, the condyles being directed straight outwards ; the upper fractured end of the shaft lies behind the great trochanter. (In Case H.) „ „ n . _ Presented by J. F. Crookes, Esq. 820. A Femur, which has been fractured at the junction of its upper and middle thirds. The fractured ends overlap considerably, the upper portion lying across the front of the lower, and the lower being much rotated outwards. In this position they are firmly united by bone formed between them and at their sides, and their medullary cavity, exposed by the fracture, is covered m by smooth thin layers of compact bone. c* (In Case H.) Vide No. 974. Angular Displacement. 821. A Femur, which has been fractured transversely, immediately above the trochanter minor. The upper portion has been drawn forwards and upwards, and is firmly united to the top of the shaft, forming nearly a right angle with it (In Case H.) 822. Portion of a Femur, which has been fractured about three inches below the trochanter minor. The fracture was a comminuted one, and the portions of bone have been displaced, so that a considerable angle, projecting forwards, is formed at their union. c- ^ (In Case H.) 823. The bones of a Knee-Joint. There has been a transverse fracture through the shaft of the femur, immediately above the condyles. The upper end of the bone, protruded downwards into the popliteal space, has, in this position, become firmly and extensively united to the condyles. There is a complete osseous anchylosis of the patella to the femur, and of the condyles of the femur to the head of the tibia. c- 58 (In Case H.) 824. A Tibia and Fibula fixed at right angles after a transverse fracture at their lower third. The case had not been subjected to surgical treatment. C. 127 (In Case H.) Presented by Mr. Stevens. 825. A Tibia and Fibula, fractured through the middle of their shafts. The fractures are firmly united, but with displacement, so that in each bone there is a considerable angle directed inwards. 0. 97 (In Case H.) Union with Separation of the Fragments. 826. Portion of a Femur, which has been fractured through the trochanter major and upper part of the shaft. The fracture extends for five inches downwards through the shaft. The two portions of the shaft, though not in contact, have been united by processes of bone extending betwreen the adjacent margins of their walls ; and the portions of the trochanter, remaining more nearly in contact, are closely united by bone. C. 10 (In Case H.) 827. Portion of a Humerus, in which there has been fracture of the upper part of the shaft extending to its neck. The portions are widely separated, and are firmly, but imperfectly, united by bridges of bone. C. 26