DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE URINARY BLADDER. 365 of which, however, they formed no part—See Abemethy Ward Boole, vol. i, p. 410. Vide also Specimens Nob. 2417 and 2423; in Series XXXIX, Nos. 2834, 2836; and in Series XL, No. 2878. EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION. ABSCESS BETWEEN THE COATS. 2405. A Bladder, in the posterior wall of which two abscesses have formed. The cavities of the abscesses are exposed by the removal of the peritoneum; they occupied circumscribed spaces between the peritoneal and mucous mem- branes, in which spaces the muscular fasciculi alone remain, the cellular tissue between them having been destroyed. In several places also the mucous membrane lining the intermuscular spaces has been destroyed, so that the abscesses communicated with the cavity of the bladder. xxvu. 34 ULCERATION. 2406. The Bladder of a woman, in which the mucous membrane has been com- pletely destroyed by ulceration. The bladder is small, and its muscular coat, exposed by the ulceration, appears hypertrophied. Small portions of calculous matter are deposited on the ulcerated surface. xxvu. 1 2407. A similar specimen, showing more plainly the enlarged fasciculi of the muscular coat exposed by the ulceration. xxvu. 20 Vide Nos. 2404, 2434. SLOUGHING- OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 2408. A Urinary Bladder, the mucous membrane of which has been entirely destroyed, except for an inch around the urethra, and the muscular coat is exposed. The bladder is somewhat dilated. The urethra is natural. The ureters were dilated to the size of a little finger, and their orifices into the bladder would admit a goose-quill. The kidneys were affected with suppurative nephritis. From a woman, aged 34 years, who had suffered with diabetes.—See Elizabeth Ward Book, vol. i, p. 348, and Post Mortem Book, toI. ii, p. 95. 2409. The specimen is apparently nearly the whole of the Mucous Membrane of the Uri nary Bladder, with a portion of the muscular coat, which was passed per urethram by a woman, aged 26 years. A month previously she was admitted into the Hospital on account of retention with incontinence of urine, and reti'o- version of the uterus, being at the time about four months pregnant.. Soon after her admission, 96 oz. of urine were drawn off with a catheter, and the urine was subsequently drawn off regularly every few hours. The expulsion of the substance shown in the specimen from the bladder was preceded by retention and acute pain in the hypogastrium, and on examination, the urethra being found blocked by some white-looking substance, the specimen was re- moved. For some months afterwards the patient was unable to hold her urine for more than from five to twenty minutes at a time. When last seen (about eight months afterwards), she was in much the same condition. Her o-eneral health was good. She was delivered of a healthy child at about the full time. 2410. The entire Mucous Membrane of a Bladder separated, as a slough, in one piece. Its tissues do not appear materially changed. The sub-mucous tissue is clean and flocculent, as if only macerated after being separated by dissection. The mucous surface appears, in some parts, excoriated or superficially ulcerated' and much of it is sprinkled over with phosphatic deposits. xxvu. 36 2411. The remains of the Bladder, from which the mucous membrane in the preceding specimen, sloughed. The exposed muscular coat appears infiltrated,