HERNT/E OR PROTRUSIONS, AXD OTHER 328 was no adhesion between it and the surface of the heart, or the parietal pericardium ; neither the surface of the heart nor the inner surface of the parietal pericardium are altered in any way from their normal characters. The omentum has entered the pericardium through an aperture in its floor, which will readily admit the tip of the little finger, and is adherent to the edge of the opening. In the skin over the cardiac region a transverse linear scar, nearly an inch in length, was found, a couple of inches below and about the same distance to the right of the nipple; and corresponding to the position of this scar, the structures occupying the spaces between the fifth and sixth ribs were found thinned and depressed. At the same spot a piece of the cartilage of the fifth rib lay partly separated from its former con- nections. All the parts had, however, long healed; the wound, probably a stab, having been almost certainly inflicted many months or years before death. The hernia was doubtless in consequence of a wound of the floor of the pericardium, inflicted at the same time as the wound in the chest-wall. The past history, however, of the patient is unfortunately a complete blank, as he had no relatives in this country at the time of his death. No other of the thoracic or abdominal viscera besides the urinary, were found diseased. There were, however, indications of old disease of the spine. The heart had been examined during life on more than one occasion, by the House Surgeon, but no abnormal condition was detected. For a fuller report of the case by Mr. Morrant Baker, see Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxviii, 1877. 2163a. Diaphragmatic Hernia, the consequence of a stab through the diaphragm six months before death. Through the aperture in the diaphragm a large portion of the jejunum and ileum, and a part of the arch of the colon, have been protruded. The patient was a man thirty-one years old. He was always healthy until he stabbed himself below the left nipple. The wound was not considered dangerous; but he had subsequently several severe attacks of obstruction of the intestines, the last of which was fatal. INTERNAL STRANGULATION. BY FIBROUS BANDS AND ADHESIONS. 2164. A Portion of the lower part of an Ileum, and the Uterus; the intestine is distended with plaster of Paris. A broad band of adhesion is attached on one side to the fundus of the uterus, and on the other by two diverging bands to two portions of intestine, which if unfolded would be at least one and half inches apart. The adhesion is, therefore, Y-shaped, the two branches being attached to points of the intestine normally at a considerable distance from each other. When the intestine became distended, it resulted that the portion intervening between the two parts of the intestine tied together was bulged out, and a constriction was produced by the pressure and sudden curvature of the intestine against the upper branch of the adhesion. There are numerous adhesions between the uterus, rectum, and ovaries. From a woman, aged 34 years, who was admitted to the Hospital with intestinal obstruction. Five days previously, her bowels were freely open after taking a purgative; the following day she was attacked with severe pain in the abdomen, and vomiting. She survived the obstruc- tion nineteen days, but at no time complained of severe pain or tenderness at any part of the abdomen. About one year and a half before, she was in the Hospital with pelvic cellulitis.— See Elizabeth Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 406 ; and Post Mortem Book, vol. viii, p. 48. 2165. Part of the Small Intestines of a child strangulated by a band of adhesion, which is connected at both its extremities with the mesentery. Bristles are passed behind the band. The whole of the intestine below the constriction is strangulated, and its vessels are greatly congested. The mesenteric glands are enlarged. xvn. 19 The child was 7 vears old. The obstruction had probably existed fourteen days before death.