Lawrence Ward Book, 1867, p. 7. I DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. 287 directed obliquely upwards and forwards, and it transfixed the diaphragm. On the upper and back part of the wall of the left ventricle, half an inch to the left of the posterior interventricular septum, and corresponding in position to the point where the fish-bone projects from the pericardium, there is a lacerated wound of the heart, consisting of two punctures placed side by side which extend about a quarter of an inch into the ventricular wall, but do not penetrate it. The parietal and visceral layers of pericardium m the neighbour- hood of the wound are discoloured and covered with lymph. The heart is dilated and flabby. The parts were taken from a man, aged 59 years, who came to the Hospital stating that he felt a fish-bone sticking in his throat. He complained of pain over the centre of the sternum. On the previous evening he had eaten some fish while partially intoxicated. A dilating horse-hair probang was passed by the house-surgeon. On leaving the Hospital he was very faint and complained of pain in the region of the heart. He took to his bed and on the following day appeared rather better, but vomited all his food. On the evening of the third day he suddenly expired. The pericardium was found distended with blood-stained serum and contained some blood-clot. See an account of the case in the Clinical Soc. Trans., vol. xiii, 1880, by Mr. Eve. 1868. A vulcanite Tooth-Plate, which was swallowed by a man. It lodged and remained firmly fixed in the oesophagus a little below the cricoid cartilage. Extraction was effected by means of the grapnel probang, but with great difficulty and only on exercising considerable force. 1869. A gold Palate-Plate with four incisor teeth and having two sharp hooks on either side. The plate was swallowed by a young lady aged 21, while taking a ' pill. It lodged in the oesophagus, from whence efforts were made to remove it, without success. Operative interference was refused. She suffered from difficulty and choking during deglutition, and became extremely emaciated. Two years and eight days after swallowing the plate she vomited after inhaling some chloroform for the relief of pain, and without effort brought the plate up.—For account of case see Lancet, July 19th, 1879. Presented by Dr. Nicholl Evans. EFFECTS OF CORROSIVE POISON. 1870. An Oesophagus ; its mucous membrane is shrivelled, of a bright yellow colour, and thrown into longitudinal folds. The yellow discoloration stops abruptly with an irregular jagged border at the commencement of the stomach, the epithelial and mucous coats of which are wanting, its surface being rough, and of a brownish-red colour. xxiv. 20 Prom the body of a man who died fifteen hours after drinking one ounce of strong nitric acid. A drawing of the stomach and oesophagus is preserved in the Museum, No. 211; and the case is fully described in the St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. v, p. 247. C3SOPHAGOTOMY. 1871. The upper part of the OEsophagus, with the Larynx and part of the Trachea, from a woman, aged 48 years, upon whom cesophagotomy was per- formed for a cancerous stricture, which extends from the junction of the oesophagus with the pharynx upwards for about an inch. Below the stricture the tube is quite healthy. The operation wound, which may be seen to be directly below the stricture, is set open with a bristle. The patient had suffered for seven months before her admission into the Hospital with dysphagia, and had become greatly emaciated. Nothing larger than a No. 8 bougie (urethral, could be passed through the obstruction, the commencement of which could be felt by the finger passed through the mouth into the pharynx. After the operation a full-sized tracheotomy-tube was introduced through the wound. Through it the patient took food well, and in all ways made very favourable progress for a week, when she refused food and medicine, and, getting weaker, died exhausted on the sixteenth day after the operation.—See