DISEASES AND INJURIES OP ARTERIES. 218 sinus, which communicated with the cavity of a gland excavated by ulceration. A portion of the gland may be seen in the preparation. 1444. Femoral Vessels in Scarpa's Triangle and adjacent parts, from a male, aged 18 years, admitted into the Hospital October 16th, 1808. He was then suffer- ing from a small ulcerated and sloughing bubo in the left groin below Poupart's ligament. From time to time there was slight venous oozing from the groin, but not sufficient at first to excite any apprehension. About November 28th the venous bleeding became more considerable, and on two occasions was severe. On December 8th a gush of blood came from the wound, and a second bleeding followed on the 9th, after which the boy sank rapidly and died. The preparation shows that the ulcerative process has extended into the femoral vein, destroying about one inch of its length. Just where the common femoral artery divides into its deep and superficial branches, a circular opening about two lines in diameter leads into its canal, and from this the fatal bleedings no doubt proceeded. 1445. External Iliac, Femoral and Profunda Arteries. A small clot occupies the first-named vessel above the point at which a ligature had been applied. The profunda exhibits a small ulcerated aperture, through which a bristle is passed. These appearances are connected with the following history. xin. 154 The patient, a man, aged 35 years, noticed one day a considerable and somewhat painful swelling on the upper part of the left thigh, which from this tune increased steadily in size. The tumour, of a doubtful character throughout, was associated with occasional absence of pulsation in the tibial arteries. After an exploratory puncture some dark fluid blood escaped; and, in the belief that it was a blood-tumour connected with some diseased and ruptured artery (the correctness of which opinion was decided by the post-mortem examination), a h>ature was placed round the external iliac artery on the twenty-sixth day. Foetid decom- position of the tumour-contents ensued, and the patient, falling into a typhoid condition, died on the thirty-first day. Vide No. 1388, also Nos. 1791 and 1801-in Series XII. GENERAL DILATATION OF ARTERIES. 1446. The Arch and Thoracic portion of an Aorta uniformly dilated. The coats of the artery are generally thickened and indurated. Earthy matter is deposited in them, and their inner surface is irregularly tuberculated, and appears ulcerated at many points. xin. 8 1447. The Arch of an Aorta, with the Carotid and Subclavian Arteries, all o-enerally and almost uniformly dilated, and having earthy and soft matter deposited in their coats. xin. 85 1448. A Heart, with the large Vessels attached to it, exhibiting a general dilata- tion of the Pulmonary Artery with a diseased state of its coats. Beneath the linino- membrane of the artery there is a deposit of a white and soft substance, giving to the internal surface of the vessel a tuberculated appearance, which is especially marked in the right branch of the artery. The trunk of the pulmonary artery, from the valves to the bifurcation, is uniformly dilated; but its coats appear nearly healthy. Both the right and left pulmonary arteries are dilated- and in one of the divisions of the left artery, which is more dilated than the rest, there is a deposit of firm fibrin, neai'ly rilling the cavity of the dilated part. One of the divisions of the right pulmonary artery was in a similar state. The cavity of the right ventricle is dilated, and its walls are thickened. Beneath the lining of the aorta is a deposit of the same kind as that in the pulmonary artery, but less abundant. xm. 90 The patient was a woman 53 years old. She had emphysema of the lungs, and chronic bronchitis, the signs of which concealed in great measure those of the disease of the pulmonary artery.