DISEASES AXD INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 230 Aneurism of the right Carotid Artery. The aneurism involves a portion of the common carotid, with the commencement of the external and internal carotid arteries. The sac is filled by firm coagulum. About an inch below the sac, a ligature was placed around the artery, and had not separated at the time of death. Between the ligature and the aneurism, as well as between the ligature and the origin of the subclavian artery, the whole cavity of the carotid is filled by coagulum, which adheres firmly to its sides. The aorta presents a tuber- culated appearance upon its internal surface from the thickening of its inner coat and the deposit of soft matter in it. Portions of the pneumogastnc and sympathetic nerves are firmly united to the aneurismal sac. The external and internal carotid arteries are closed at the point of their communication with the aneurism, but appear of healthy texture. XIIL SUBCLAVIAN AND AXILLARY ARTERIES. 1511. A Subclavian and Axillary Artery, with part of a very large Aneurismal Sac. The aneurism occupies a part of the subclavian and the whole length ot the axillary artery to the commencement of the brachial; but only a small portion of the sac is preserved connecting the two parts of the artery. Bristles are passed into the apertures of communication between the artery and the sac ; both of which apertures are small, and smooth. The interior of the sac is tuber- culated and wrinkled, but polished as if fined by a continuation of the internal coat of the artery: the axillary nerves are connected with its exterior. Ihe arterv is neither changed in structure nor dilated on either side of the aneurism. J xiii. 67 1512. The Arch of an Aorta, with the left Subclavian and Axillary Arteries. The left axillary artery is the seat of an aneurism, for the cure of which the subclavian artery has been tied. The upper part of the preparation consists of the left subclavian artery and the arch of the aorta. By tracing the subclavian artery downwards, the situation where it has been tied will be recognised. On the side of the ligature nearest to the heart, the artery is pervious and of its ordi- nary size to its extremity, which was closed by only a small coagulum. Between this coagulum and the sides of the vessel is an aperture into which a bristle is passed, and through which blood had passed from the artery to the wound. At a short distance above the situation of the ligature, several large branches arise The portion of artery between the situation of the ligature and the aneurismal sac is completely closed by coagulum. The aneurismal sac also is m great part filled by laminated coagulum : its exterior is firmly attached to three of the ribs which have undergone partial absorption. Below the sac is the remaining part of the axillary, with the commencement of the brachial artery. The axillary artery from the point of its connection with the sac is quite pervious, and a large branch arises from it, which divides into the subscapular and circumflex arteries. The axillary vein is connected with the sac, and is pervious. Ihe coats of the subclavian artery above the situation of the ligature were so brittle that they yielded to the slightest force. xm- 21 The patient was a man, aged 38 years. The aneurism appeared to have existed four months and was first observed six months alter an attack of acute rheumatism. He died after repeated hemorrhages, on the thirteenth day from the application of the ligature. The case is described by Mr. Charles Mayo, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xn, p. 12. London, Presented by Charles Mayo, Esq. 1513. A Subclavian and Axillary Artery, the seat of Aneurism. The aneurism includes nearly three inches of the artery, and appears to be formed by dilatation of its whole circumference. The brachial plexus of nerves is connected with one side of the sac: and portions of the first and second ribs form part ot its boundaries. Only half an inch of the artery intervenes between the aneurism