INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 138 fracture is firmly and smoothly united; but the trochanter is drawn up above the level of the head of the bone. c. 95 (In Case H.) Presented by H. B. Oakes, Esq. 960. The upper part of a Femur, in which a fracture extends obliquely down- wards and inwards, from the middle of the great trochanter through the base of the neck, and ends just above the lesser trochanter. There is no union of the fragments, but they are held together by portions of the periosteum, c. 117 From a man, 82 years of age, who died a fortnight after the injury, which was produced by a fall on the floor. The limb, directly after the fracture, was shortened about half an inch, and was inverted, the toe resting on the opposite instep. It was movable and could be everted, but, of itself, it became again inverted. (In Case H.) Presented by Charles Miles, Esq. 961. The head and neck of the right Femur, from an old man aged 85 years. Seven months before his death he fell and fractured the neck of his thigh-bone, and the radius and ulna of the corresponding arm. The latter united perfectly in about six weeks. The femur has been broken in two directions. The bone, divided longitudinally, shows the coarse of these fractures, the principal one of which extends obliquely through the neck. In the posterior portion firm bony union has taken place. The fragments of the anterior portion separated during maceration. c. 131 (In Case H.) Presented by Charles Miles, Esq. 962. Portion of a Femur, in which there has been fracture extending through the base of its neck, and obliquely through the base of the trochanter major. The fractured surfaces have firmly united, but the shaft has been drawn upwards and forwards, so that the head and neck of the femur appear much below their natural situation. In this position a bridge of bone has united the base of the head of the femur to the margin of the posterior inter-trochanteric ridge. C. 49 (In Case H.) 963. Sections of a Femur, in which there has been fracture extending obliquely through the trochanter major and the base of the neck into the posterior part of the shaft. There is firm union of the fractured surfaces, but the two portions of the trochanter major are separated to some distance from each other. c. 57 The patient was a woman 60 years old. After a fall on her hip, she had signs which led to the suspicion of dislocation of the head of the femur, for the posterior portion of the fractured trochanter major, being drawn backwards towards the ischiatic notch, felt like the head of the bone. She died about three years after the accident. The case is described by Mr. Stanley, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xiii, p. 505. London, 1825. (In Case F.) For other Specimens of Fracture of the Neck of the Femur, see Nos. 745, 751, 752, 786, 787, 793, 794, 830, 838, 839, 840, 847 to 853. 964. Sections of the Head and Neck of a Femur, from an aged woman. On the surface of each section a white line is visible, which extends obliquely from above downwards and in words, in a plane which would include the base of the neck at its upper part and the base of the head at its lower part. The line marks the section of a thin layer of fibrous tissue, and appears to indicate that a fracture of the neck of the femur has been united partly by fibrous tissue and partly by bone. The head of the femur is below the great trochanter, and there