HERNLE OR PROTRUSIONS, AND OTHER 326 UNUSUAL RELATIONS OF OBTURATOR ARTERY. 2147. Two Femoral Hernia?, in the male, exhibiting different relations of the obturator artery to the mouth of the hernial sac. Both the obturator arteries arise by common trunks with the epigastric arteries. On the right side, the obturator artery descends to the obturator foramen close to the outer margin of the mouth of the sac. On the left side, the obturator artery in its course to the obturator foramen turns round the inner border of the mouth of the sac. On the right side, the common trunk of the two arteries is about a quarter of an inch long; on the left, it is about three-quarters of an inch long. xvn. 55 2148. Portion of a male Pelvis, with parts of the abdominal muscles, exhibiting the sacs of two femoral hernia?. On each side, the obturator artery, arising with the epigastric by a common trunk about half an inch long, turns round the inner border of the sac, while the obturator vein, arising separately from the epigastric, passes round the outer border. xvn. 69 PROTRUSION THROUGH GIMBERNAT'S LIGAMENT. 2149. Femoral Hernia. A small peritoneal sac has been protruded between the fibres of Grimbernat's ligament. A bristle is passed beneath the portion of the ligament which intervenes between this peritoneal sac and the space through which a femoral hernia usually passes. xvn- ^2 HERNIOTOMY. 2150. Femoral Hernia, for the reduction of which the operation was performed. The sac is collapsed and thickened. The incision of the stricture has been carried from the anterior part of the sac directly upwards. The epigastric vessels are situated about half an inch from the outer side of the mouth of the » 27 2151. Femoral Hernia, for the reduction of which the operation was performed. Gimbernat's ligament is divided horizontally close to the os pubis. xvn. 51 MULTIPLE HERNLffi. 2152. Four Hernise, an inguinal and a femoral on each side. The spermatic cords are situated on the outer side of each inguinal hernia. The fascia trans- versalis, protruded before the right inguinal hernia, is divided and m part separated from the sac. xvn- ^1 UMBILICAL HERNIA. 2153. Part of a large Umbilical Hernia, the sac of which presents many irregular pouches, and appears in some parts deficient. xvn. 33 2154. Portion of the Abdominal Muscles, exhibiting a large circular opening in the linea alba, through which an umbilical hernia was protruded. xvn. 34 2155. Section of an Umbilical Hernia, containing omentum firmly adherent to the sac. The sac, although thinned at one part, is complete. xvn. 46 2156. Portion of the anterior wall of an Abdomen, exhibiting a large Umbilical Hernia. The hernial sac is divided, by deep constrictions, into three parts of unequal size. It is filled by omentum. xvn. 82 VENTRAL HERNIA. 2157. A Ventral Hernia through the linea alba, midway between the ensiform ' cartilage and the umbilicus. The hernial sac was empty ; it communicates with the abdomen by a small aperture into which a piece of glass is inserted. A portion of ometunm, which passed from the transverse colon, is attached to the