20 DISEASES OF BONES. From a man aged 37. When a toy he had some disease about the lower^[^^ attended w ith the discharge of pieces of bone, which recurred some yean, after, MMmh* siding. Three weeks before his admission to the hospital the lower part of' ^ ^ becam6 agabTswollen and painful. Some carious bono was gouged out of a cavity BjbbMi end ot the tibia. No marked improvement taking place, amputation was performed a month later. See Darker Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 166. 144. The other Section of the same bone macerated. 145. The inner Section of the lower end of a Tibia, an Astragalus and Os Calms. There is a cavity in the lower end of the tibia, filled by soft granulation tissue, but still communicating with the surface by a sinus which opens above the internal malleolus. The astragalus is united to the tibia by a layer ot nbrous tissue, which only covers a small extent of the articular surfaces; the cartilages are otherwise intact, but thinned at the edges, the ]omt naa no communication with the cavity in the tibia, and did not contain pus. From a girl, aged 14, who was admitted to the hospital with thickening of the. tissue* above the ankle °and sinuses above the internal malleolus, leading into the tibia^ lhe disease was supposed to have resulted from a sprained ankle four weeks pwW£ "g* tram lying loose in a cavity in the lower end of the tibia was removed by opejataon.^ogreat improvement being observed, amputation was **^„^j£tf"?>*™t 30 sion that there was disease of the ankle-joint.-See Sitwell Ward Book,Yo\. vi, p. 30. 146. An Os Calcis, in the outer surface of which there is a Carious Cavity. There is a rough deposit of new bone over its entire surface. i- an 147. An Os Calcis, the whole of the upper portion of which is Carious, irregular deposit of new bone has taken place around the carious surface. ^ 148. An Os Calcis. On its outer side a large Carious Cavity exists, which was occupied by an abscess. The limb was removed in the upper third of the thigh from a young man on account of necrosis of the femur. 149. Caries of the Os Calcis. The foot was removed from a man aged 21, who had bee nlaidupforn,,arly two years with suppurating fistuhe connected with the diseased bone.-See Barker Ward Book, vol. iv, p. 1&7. 150. AnOs Calcis, showing a Carious Cavity in its interior which communicated with the surface by a fistulous opening on the outer side of the bone. I. ooU See Lucas Ward Book, vol. i, p. 387. , m . n„j fnr Caries of the For Caries of the Articular Surfaces, see Series II, Nos. 596 fo620 ; and for Lanes of me Vertebrce, see Series V, Nos. 1061, 1063 to 1070, Sfc. NECROSIS. NECROSIS OF THE ENTIRE SHAET OR THE GREATER PORTION OP A BONE. . 151 The left half of a Lower Jaw, which has suffered Acute Necrosis. The Periosteum is almost entirely separated from the bone. The last molar tooth wa TounT loose and its socket filled with pus. The articulation of the jaw was destroyed and the periosteum covering the squamous portion of the tern- poral bone was separated by pus. From a man, aged 20, who four weeks before his death, was attacked with toothache, An 313