. O DISEASES OF BONES. V^.-^ 45 correspond to the positions of the gummata shown in the preceding specimen ; beneal h the lower one the compact wall of the bone is rarefied. (In Case F.) SYPHILITIC NECROSIS. 332. Necrosis of the Frontal Bone the result of Syphilis. From a man ngod 25. 333. A Skull, in which, in the course of Syphilitic disease, there occurred necrosis of several large portions of the frontal and parietal bones. Many of the sequestra were completely separated, and the surface of the diploe and inner table exposed by their removal appears to have healed smoothly; but many other portions in which the necrosis extends through both tables of the skull, are only partially detached. The portions of the skull, which remain behind those that have suffered necrosis, appear quite healthy: they were not even increased in vascularity. A. U2 (In Case F.) 334. A Skull-Cap, exhibiting Necrosis of a portion of the outer table of the frontal bone, with thickening of the inner table to a corresponding extent. The dead bone is black: previous to its necrosis it appears to have been super- Hcially ulcerated. A very shallow groove of separation surrounds it. There is ulceration of the outer table of the frontal bone above the right orbit. (In Case F.) 335. The Skull-Cap of a young woman, in which, in the course of syphilis the greater part of the outer table of the frontal bone suffered necrosis, and'was nearly separated from the adjacent bone. A deep groove has formed round the dead portion, and a large part of its under surface is separated The inner table has not perished, but beneath the centre of the necrosed portion there are several irregular ulcerated openings in it. There are two small superficial ulcerations of the external table near the sagittal suture, on corresponding parts ot the two parietal bones. A 90 (In Case F.) 336. A Skull-Cap, exhibiting extensive Necrosis, which apparently succeeded syphilitic ulceration of the outer table of the frontal bone. A groove has formed around the dead bone, and extends for some distance beneath its edcres Thorn are cicatrices of old ulcers on the parietal bones ; and the skull is heavy. (In Case F.) A- 105 337. A Skull, with syphilitic Necrosis and Ulceration of a portion of thP Wf parietal bone. The dead bone has been in part removed. The frontal bone tuberculated and vascular. T/y* (In Case F.) A* 07 338. A Skull-Cap, exhibiting extensive Necrosis of the outer Hhlo n-nA „ n extent, of the inner table, of the frontal bone. T^xSSS^^^T" ceding specimens, occurred in the course of syphilitic ulceration % (In Case F.) Al 111 339. The Upper part of a Skull, exhibiting the effects of syphilitic ulceration ™d necrosis. A large portion of the frontal bone exfoliated long before thetntl; death, and the borders of the aperture, as well as the sn^toZ^™** the bone, are smoothly healed. A necrosed portion of the ooS hnt removed about a month before the patient's lleath : the aperture emarnT^f