210 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. walls. Between these clots is a substance connecting the extremities of the art cry divided by the ligature, which substance appeared, in the recent state, to consist of the remains of the sheath of the artery. From the clot below the situation of the ligature to within a short distance of the sac, the artery is pervious; and from this pervious part the epigastric and circumflex branches arise. Within that part of the artery which is directly above the sac, is a small conical clot completely filling its canal. The coats of the artery appeared healthy throughout. The external iliac vein is pervious to within an inch of the sac ; but there it is obliterated. The interior of the portion of the sac which is preserved is irregularly wrinkled and tuberculated, but polished as if lined by a prolongation of the internal coat of the artery. xm. 27 The patient was a man 35 years old. The aneurism extended from Poupart's ligament nearly to the knee, and almost surrounded the limb. After the ligature of the artery the limb mortified, and the patient died in the third week with symptoms of tetanus.^ The case is related by Mr. Hodgson in his " Treatise on Diseases of the Arteries and Veins," p. 198, Case XXXV. 1397. The Iliac Arteries of a man whose external iliac artery was tied four days before his death. The ligature was applied just above the origin of the epigastric branch of the artery. Above this place, where now a constriction appears, the whole canal of the artery to the origin of the iliac is filled with a firm, cylindrical blood-clot. Beyond the place of ligature, a smaller conical clot extends, for nearly an inch, along the trunk of the artery. The coats of the artery are thick and rigid, with deposits of fatty and calcareous matter. J xiii. 123 The patient, a man 55 years old, was stabbed deeply in the left groin, and lost so large a quantity of blood from the wound, that he " seemed on the point of expiring." On the fol- lowing day, when he bad in some measure recovered from the effects of the loss of blood, no pulsation could be felt in the left femoral artery, till near the middle of the limb; below this part and in the arteries of the leg, the pulse was very feeble; while in the arteries of the right lower extremity it was distinct. The difference was probably due to the diseased state of the left iliac artery, narrowing its calibre; but, added to the large loss of blood, it seemed to iustify the operation for ligature of the main artery. No wound of any large vessel could, however, be found ; and it appeared most probable that the bleeding bad proceeded from the The case is related in a Clinical Lecture by Sir Wm. Lawrence, in the Medical Times and Gazette, July 2nd, 1853. 1398. The Femoral Artery from the body of a man who died eleven days after amputation at the thigh. Its canal is much contracted and wrinkled transversely. By its side is suspended the clot which it contained, of a deep-red colour, and with its surface furrowed in correspondence with the condition of the arterial coat, giving it an irregularly spiral aspect. xiii. 129 1399. Parts of a Femoral Artery and Vein, from a Stump. The extremity of the'artery is open; but its canal is filled to some distance by a coagulum, which adhered firmly to its coats, The extremity of the vein is closed, and there is a deposit of lymph upon its inner surface. Xin. 37 1400. A Femoral Artery and Vein, from a Stump. The coats of the artery are generally thickened. No adhesion of its sides has taken place at the cut extremity; but for some distance higher up its cavity is filled by a coagulum. The extremity of the vein is closed. XIH. 59 1401. The Popliteal, Tibial, and Peroneal Arteries of a man, aged 65 years. They are throughout extensively diseased. The posterior tibial at the operation was cut through by the ligature ; a second ligature, including surrounding muscle, was employed. The vessels were filled throughout with firm clots, that in the peroneal being less perfectly formed and lighter in colour than the others.