451 DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. 2988. A Uterus, with a large Fibrous Tumour in its posterior wall, whence it projects backwards covered by the peritoneal coat of the organ. xxxii. 27 Presented by Dr. Conquest. 2989. A Uterus. A large Intramural Fibroid occupies its posterior wall and projects above the fundus and below the cervix. The portio vaginalis is gone ; the cervix opens by a round orifice, which admits the little finger into the uterine cavity, the wall of which (except the posterior wall formed by the fibroid) is hardly thicker than a fold of blotting paper. No connection between the Fallopian tubes and the uterine cavity can be found. The extreme length of the uterine cavity from the os externum is four and a half inches, the extreme breadth two inches. A coronal section of the cavity is spindle- shaped. Both ovaries are atrophied, especially the right. At the junction of the right Fallopian tube with the uterus, and above the tube, is a sub-peritoneal fibroid, the size of a small orange, calcified en coq, the calcification extending also into its interior. 2990. An extremely vascular Fibro-Cellular Tumour, removed from the vagina. It was attached by a narrow base to the posterior lip of the os uteri. The hasmorrhage which followed the operation was easily restrained by plugging the vagina. xxxn. 64 2991. The Uterus of a woman, aged 37. To the anterior portion of the fundus a large pendunculated Fibroid is attached. When she was admitted into the Hospital, the tumour completely filled the vagina, and presented a sloughing surface. It was forcibly drawn down and the lower half of it removed. The woman died a week afterwards of peritonitis. The uterus itself is very much enlarged, and upon its fundus, immediately beneath the peritoneum, is a tumour of a similar character, about the size of a marble. xxxii. 79 2992. Section of a very large Fibrous Tumour from a Uterus. One surface of the section is rough and shreddy, from sloughing; the others show the characteristic structure of the fibrous tumour, a greyish, dense, and touo-h basis traversed by circling and wavy shining white bands. xxxii. 26 Presented by Dr. Conquest. Vide also Nos. 3289 and 3290, in Series L. Degenerations of Fibroids—Softening. 2993. Section of a large Fibrous Tumour, removed after death from a Uterus and exhibiting in its interior a cavity formed by softening of its substance! The cavity contained a serous fluid, and is bounded by the soft and rather floc- culent tissue of the tumour. xxxii 40 2994. A Uterus, in the posterior wall of which a large, nearly spherical mass is imbedded, and appears to be composed of a crowd of Fibrous Tumours closely con- nected. In the middle of the mass is a narrow space or fissure, the walls of which are formed by the tumours, and of which a part of the cavity is filled bv a tumour projecting into it from the side. At the lower part of the mass a portion of the uterine wall is shown extended over its surface: its posterior surface is completely covered by peritoneum, beneath which some of its com- ponent tumours appear prominent. xxxii 41 The patient was a delicate and unhealthy woman, 38 years old. Menorrhagia had exitf, H for seven years, and had been excessive for the year before death. <?iiaiea Presented by Dr. Eigby. Calcification. 2995. Section of a Uterus, elongated and distorted by the growth of ten or twel Tumours, of various sizes, in its walls. Most of the tumours are seated beneath the peritoneal covering of the fundus of the uterus. The largest of 2 g 2 ° 8 °