DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE URETHRA AND PENIS. 437 "Part of the surface of the growth is ulcerated and shreddy. The glans penis appears healthy, but is compressed by the morbid growth. £XX, 28 2893. The greater part of a Penis, removed together with a very large, soft, warty growth, which covers all its upper and anterior parts, and appears to have originated in the skin and prepuce. The glans and body of the penis are healthy. xxx. 35 Presented by William Slyman, Esq. 2894. Section of the end of a Penis, injected. The glans is converted into a lobulated mass of epithelioma; the growth is distinctly limited by the fibrous septum between the glans and corpora cavernosa. A piece of glass is placed in the urethra. The growth presented the ordinary characters of cancer on examination with the microscope. From a man, aged 64 years, who suffered from a congenital phimosis. The tumour had been growing for a year.—See Rahere Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 299. 2895. Portion of a Penis, in which the corpus cavernosum is converted, probably by cancerous disease, into a firm substance. The glans penis with a part of the altered corpus cavernosum is deeply ulcerated, xxx. 24 2896. Portion of a Penis, in which a large part of the prepuce, glans, and corpus cavernosum has been destroyed by cancerous ulceration. The elevated, everted, and sinuous margins of the ulcer, and its irregularly indurated base, are strongly marked. xxx. 30 2897. The end of a Penis, which was removed from a young man in consequence of extensive carcinomatous ulceration of the glans and prepuce. The borders of the ulcer are hard, elevated, everted,and sinuous; its base is irregular and covered by granulations. xxx. 34 2898. Sections of a Penis, which was removed in consequence of extensive cancerous disease. In the lower half of the prepuce is a mass of firm cancer two inches in diameter, and nearly oval in form. The part of this mass which is near the glans has ulcerated deeply, and the lower half of the glans itself lias been similarly destroyed. The remains of the glans and the anterior third of the corpus spongiosum urethras appeared filled with cancerous substance ; and there is a nearly isolated round mass of cancer in the corpus cavernosum just behind the glans. xxx." 36 From a man, 75 years old. The disease had been eighteen months in progress. The penis was cut off close to the pnbes. A week after the operation the patient died with erysipelas. After death the inguinal and lumbar glands were found enlarged with cancerous disease • there were several small, white, hard cancerous tumours in the lungs; and pus was deposited in the wrist, elbow, and several other joints, and in the midst of the cancerous glands. 2899. Portion of a Penis. The glans and prepuce have been in great part destroyed by epithelioma. Imbedded in the body of the organ, and enclosed in a sort of capsule, by which it is isolated from the surrounding textures is a large mass of cancer. Removed by amputation from a gentleman, aged 65 years, in whom it had been growing five 2900. A portion of Skin removed from the dorsum of the penis of a chimney- sweeper, and exhibiting an oval elevated epitheliomatous ulcer, with a hard and irregularly nodulated surface. Beneath the ulcer the tissue down to the corpus cavernosum is as hard as cartilage. xxx %Q 2901. Cancerous ulceration of the Bladder with cancerous infiltration of the Penis, from a man, aged 42 years. The main symptoms during life were intense pain and difficulty in micturating through the greatly distended penis On