564 CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED^OR~ INJURED PARTS. of the leg were dislocated, moving directly backwards from their connexion with the femur. The tissues about the joint were atrophied and contracted. 20. A Knee contracted from disease. 20a. Cast of a Knee affected with rheumatoid-arthritis. The synovial membrane is distended, and on either side of the joint is a rounded prominence, running from before backwards, and due to the growth of osteophytes from the margins of the articular surfaces of the femur and tibia. 21, 22. Casts of a man's Hands, deformed with masses of gouty deposit (chalk- stones) about nearly all the articulations of the fingers. All the fingers also are directed towards the ulnar margin of the hand. Presented by Owen Evans, Esq. 23. A specimen of the same disease in a slighter degree. Presented by Dr. Dyce Duckworth. 23a. Casts of two Hands with many nodes over the phalangeal and metacarpo- phalangeal joints, produced by deposits of urate of soda. INJURIES OF BONES (Fractures). 24. Cast of the upper half of a Humerus, in which a transverse fracture through the surgical neck separated the head with the tubercles from the shaft. Union took place, with the lower border of the head impacted in the cancellous tissue of the upper part of the shaft, and with such misplacement that, if the articular surface of the head had its natural relation to the glenoid cavity, the shaft must have been abducted to an angle of thirty to forty degrees from the side of the body. From a specimen in the Museum of St. Mary's Hospital. 25 Cast of a Fore-arm and Hand, with deformity of the Wrist, connected with fracture of the radius an inch from the joint, and separation of the triangular fibro-cartilage from its radial attachment. The parts are in Series III, Nos. 926. 26. Cast of a Hand and part of the Fore-arm, taken immediately after the occur- rence of a fracture through the lower extremity of a radius (Colles' fracture). 27. Cast of a Knee fourteen years after fracture of the patella. The portions of the patella are four inches apart, and, in the bent position of the joint, the con- dyles of the femur project between them. The strength and movements of the joint were not seriously impaired. 28. Fracture of the Patella, with great separation of the two portions, taken many years after the accident. 29. Fracture of the Tibia and Fibula immediately above the ankle-joint. Presented by Or. Smith, Esq. 30. Cast of a Leg, with great deformity at, and above, the ankle-joint, in conse- quence of a comminuted fracture of the lower ends of the tibia and fibula, and the accumulation of bone in the repair of the injury. 31. Cast of a Foot, which had been dislocated outwards, with, probably, fracture of the internal malleolus and fibula. After the usual treatment, the form and strength of the limb appeared to be restored. But the patient returned too early