192 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE lanotic substance are seen beneath the lining membrane of a portion of the vena cava superior which is attached to the heart. xn- 4" The other section of this heart is preserved in the Museum of the Koyal College of Surgeons of England. , , _ 00, . , fl A melanotic tumour from the skin of the same patient is in Series L, JNo. 661% ana uie liistory of the case is added to its description. Presented by Dr. Norris. 1289. Melanotic Tumours in the substance of the heart of a man aged 47 years. Similar deposits existed in great number, from the size of a millet seed to that of a pea, in the integument of the abdomen and beneath the pleurae and peri- toneum. Other masses were found in the lungs, liver, kidneys, supra-renal capsules, bronchial and mesenteric glands, and the omentum. In the last- named part masses were found of the size of the fist. 1290. Part of the Heart of the young Woman from whom the melanotic eye m Series XXXIII, No. 2629, was removed. It presents several small round masses of melanotic substance imbedded in the muscular substance, and one projecting into the cavity of the left ventricle. xn. 41 TUMOURS OF UNCERTAIN NATURE. 1291. Section of a Left Ventricle, showing several small deposits of soft medul- lary substance between its muscular fibres. xn. 23 From the same person as No. 2718 in Series XXXV. 1292 Part of a Heart, in which there is a large mass of firm medullary matter in the substance of the apex of the right ventricle, and of the septum. The morbid mass has not altered the external form of the heart, but it projects with a coarsely granular surface into the cavity of the ventricle, and has raised up the tricuspid valve: in its middle, its substance is softened and broken down. The pericardium is in every part closely adherent. The aorta is dilated, and both it and its valves have earthy deposits in them. xn. 60 From the patient, from whom the eye, Series XXXIII No. 2625, was removed He died two years after the operation with this medullary disease of the heart, similar deposits in the lungs, and a large medullary tumour on the lower jaw. 1293 A Heart, in which there are imbedded, in the middle of the posterior wall of the left ventricle, several small masses of a yellowish firm substance. Some of them are prominent in the cavity of the ventricle ; but the largest, which is darker and firmer than the others, projects externally, and is situated at the bottom of a recess in the wall of the heart, like the sac of an aneurism. Ihe muscular substance of the heart is wasted around this largest mass, and a thm laver or capsule of fibro-cellular tissue invests it. The pericardium was ad- herent to its surface and to the adjacent part of the surface of the ventricle xn. 55 The patient was a girl, who, for a long time before her death, had complained of nearly constant pain about the heart, but presented no other sign of cardiac disease. She died 8uddenly- Presented by Dr. Hue. 1294 Section of part of a Calf's Heart, from the apex of which a large mass of medullary substance projects, which appears to have commenced m the muscular substance. ENTOZOA IN THE HEART. 1295 A Heart exhibiting a collection of Acephalocyst Hydatids between the linino- membrane and the muscular substance forming the posterior wall of the right°ventricle The hydatids are contained m a distinct cyst, between two and