CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. 576 was of low mental development. His limbs were enormons, especially the forearms and hands. The tumours were especially developed on the trunk, in front and behind ; one was on the chin. They diminished in number upon the extremities, and were all subcutaneous in the latter localities. On the body they were of all sizes, from that of a mustard seed to that of a small raisin ; but oue on the right scapular region,—which was apparently formed by a con- geries of tumours, and was shrinking,—was as large as an apricot. Some were sessile, others were more or less pedunculated. Comedones were present upon many of the tumours. The palms and soles, and palate, were free from growths. Changes had evidently occurred in many of the smaller tumours, for they were reduced to the condition (apparently by absorption) of acrochordon. 172. Cast of a Hand and Forearm of the same patient. 173. Model of a large, deep, Epitheliomatous Ulcer of the integuments below and in front of the ear of a man who had been a chimney-sweeper. 174. Cast of a hand showing an ulceration of the skin in the fork between the thumb and index finger. The ulceration extends more especially along the normal fissures of the skin. The nature of. the disease was not determined. 175. Acne Rosacea (Gutta Rosacea). Taken from a married woman, aged 29, who had always been healthy. There was no reason to suspect indulgence in strong drinks. The affection had lasted three years. The face was covered with a hideous series of purplish-red blotches and bosses, with suppuration at various points. The skin was most altered upon the chin, where an infiltration of new growth occurred, and projected for a quarter of an inch from the subjacent surface. The case corresponds to Hebra's A. rosacea of the second degree. Occa- sional outbreaks occur in this patient, though much less severe than formerly. Vide St. Bartholomew1's Hospital Reports, vol. viii, p. 57, 1872. 176. Molluscum Contagiosum. (M. Sebaceum, interdum contagiosum.) Cast taken from a young child. Two others of the family had the disease. Vide St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. viii, p. 65, 1872. 177. Model of Arms, in which the skin is affected in an extreme degree with Tinea Favus. In one arm the crusts are raised in thick heaps; in the other, the diseased skin is represented as exposed after their removal. 178. Model of a Great Toe, with separation of the nail, ulceration of its matrix, and inflammation of the adjacent skin. The name "Onychia maligna" has been given to this disease. DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE AND ITS COVERINGS. 179. Cast of a Hydrocele, in which the tunica vaginalis yielded so unequally that the swelling imitated that of an inguinal hernia. Presented by George Macilwain, Esq. 180. Cast of a double Hydrocele. The two sacs contained together seventy-six ounces of fluid. Presented by Tbonias Wormald, Esq. 181. Cast of a large medullary Tumour in the Groin. The testicles had not descended into the scrotum. Presented by John Lawrence, Esq.