428 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. portion of it, and projects in the form of a round tumour into the cavity of the bladder, immediately behind the orifice of the urethra. The muscular coat of the bladder is hypertrophied. The ureters are dilated and thickened. Im- mediately above one of the ureters is a small cyst communicating with the bladder. xxix. 6 2835. A similar specimen; but the prostate not being divided, as it is in the preceding preparation, exhibits more plainly the manner in which, when enlarged, it projects into the neck of the bladder; and, especially, the manner in which the enlarged middle lobe projects behind and above, and partially overhangs, the orifice of the urethra. xxix. 7 2836. A Bladder and Prostate Gland. Both the lateral and middle lobes of the prostate are enlarged, but the middle lobe is enlarged in a much greater degree than the rest, and forms a nearly disc-shaped swelling, upwards of an inch in diameter, which projects into the cavity of the bladder; and overhangs the orifice of the urethra. The surface of this part is ulcerated. Several small cysts, or pouches, are formed by the protrusion of the mucous membrane between the hypertrophied muscular fibres of the bladder. xxix. 12 2837. A Bladder and Prostate Gland. The prostate is greatly enlarged, and its middle portion projects into the neck of the bladder, in the form of a large broad-based cone nearly two inches high. This part has been deeply torn by catheters, which were arrested by it in the attempt to relieve the retention of urine. The coats of the bladder are thick, but weak and flaccid. The mucous membrane is in many places depressed between the fasciculi of the muscular coat. xxix. 21 From a man, 70 years old, who had long had stricture of the urethra. The bladder was tapped above the pubes two months before death. He died exhausted with continued inflam- mation of the bladder and prostate. Vide No. 3291, Series L. IRREGULAR ENLARGEMENTS. 2838. A Bladder and Prostate Gland, with part of the Rectum. The prostate gland is exceedingly large, its surface is knobbed, and lobulated growths project from it into the cavity of the bladder. A passage was formed through the prostate by a catheter. The muscular coat of the bladder is thickened and its mucous membrane is ulcerated. At the upper and back part of the bladder is a large irregular aperture, formed by the sloughing of its coats, through which urine escaped into the abdomen. The rectum is much curved and compressed beneath the enlarged prostate. xxix. 11 2839. Section of a Bladder, Prostate Gland, and Urethra. The prostate gland is enlarged, and some tumours growing from it project into the bladder. There was a calculus in the bladder, which was removed by the lateral operation of lithotomy a fortnight before death; and in the progress of the operation one of the tumours arising from the prostate was completely detached. This tumour is suspended in the lower part of the bottle ; it is of oval form, about three- quarters of an inch in diameter, and appears to have been attached by a small pedicle. xxix. 9 The calculus is preserved in the Series of Urinary Calculi. 2840. Portion of an enlarged Prostate Gland, of irregular shape, and measuring from an inch to an inch and a half in its several diameters, which was cut and torn off in the operation of lithotomy. xxix. 26 The patient was about 40 years old, and had two large calculi. His recovery from the opera- tion was quick and apparently complete. 2841. A lobulated portion of an enlarged Prostate Gland, which was brought away in extracting a stone from the bladder. xxix. 30