102 DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. The adjacent vertebra) are approximated, so that their anterior margins are nearly in contact and partially united by bone, and there is considerable angular curvature of the spine. The remains of the body of the vertebra which is principally diseased, and the bodies of the vertebras above and below it, are denser and harder than natural, and of a yellow colour. The spinal cord is curved, in correspondence with the curvature of the spine, but is not com- pressed. The patient was a lad 17 years old. After signs of the disease had existed for two years he had paraplegia. Issues were made near the diseased part of the spine and he ^T^ljmft- cientlv to pSrsue his work as a farmer's boy. But, by a fall on his back, acute inflammation of the spinal cord, apparently extending to the brain, was excited, which proved tatai. 1101. The last nine dorsal, and the first lumbar Vertebrae of a Child. The body of the eleventh dorsal vertebra is nearly destroyed, and those of the eightn, ninth, and tenth are completely destroyed by ulceration. The space lett by their removal is partially closed by the approximation of the vertebra) above and below, producing an acute angular curvature of the spine; it is bounded in front by the periosteum and ligaments of the vertebras detached and raised up over a collection of purulent fluid. The detachment of the# periosteum is also continued over the fronts of the bodies of the seventh, sixth and fifth dorsal vertebras, which are hollowed out, except at their borders, by ulceration ; the intervertebral substances are not diseased. The posterior common vertebral lio-ament is raised and made to project into the spinal canal by purulent and p?obably tuberculous matter collected behind the remains of the ulcerated vertebras. 1102. Section of the lower dorsal and first two lumbar Vertebras. The former, the seat of old disease, have their bodies broken down and crushed together. In this condition they have become consolidated. The spinal canal at, and above the curve, is slightly narrowed. The cord is here compressed, its antero- posterior diameter being less by nearly one-fifth of an inch than immediately above and below. The angular curvature was of slow formation. It occurred between the ages of 8 and 11 years, about 14 years prior to the death of the patient. There was no paralysis. Pneumonia was the immediate cause of death. 1103 Section of a part of a Spine, including the last six dorsal and the first three lumbar vertebras. In consequence of disease—probably such ulceration as is shown in the preceding specimen—there has been a considerable loss of sub- stance in the bodies of the last three dorsal vertebras, and their remains have united at a very acute angle. The osseous substance in this situation is hard and dense The intervertebral cartilage between the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebras is wholly removed, and that between the first and second lumbar vertebras has yielded, so as to leave a deep gap between the bodies of those bones The vertebral canal behind the angular curvature is not narrowed, nor is the spinal cord in any degree compressed, though drawn close over the angle in the front wall of the canal. IY- s® From a lad, who died with lumbar abscess. 1104 Section of a Spine, from the sixth dorsal to the second lumbar vertebra. The anterior parts of the bodies of the ninth and tenth dorsal vertebras, and the portion of the fibro-cartilage between them are destroyed by ulceration; the approximation of their remains has produced an angular curvature of the snine The periosteum, with the anterior vertebral ligament, is detached both from these two and from the eighth and eleventh dorsal vertebras; it was raised over a collection of purulent fluid, which projected in the posterior mediastinum and communicated below with a psoas abscess. The spinal canal is much