DISEASES OF JOINTS. 86 the head of the tibia to the dead bone in its centre. The synovial membrane of the knee-joint is very vascular and its internal surface is covered by a layer of lymph, into which the injection has freely passed from the vessels of the synovial membrane. l- 123 From a young -woman, on whom amputation of the limb was performed on account of inflammation in the knee-joint consequent on necrosis in the head of the tibia. The necrosis had existed many years. 577. The inner section of an Ankle-Joint. The articular surfaces of the tibia and astragalus are extensively destroyed and covered by granulations. There is a cavity in the lower end of the tibia, which is filled up by soft fibrous tissue. The bone above it is condensed, and the astragalus, 'immediately beneath the eroded surface is similarly hardened. Numerous fistulous tracks, through which glass rods have been passed, lead from the joint through the integuments. The synovial membrane is pulpy. The other bones of the tarsus are soft but not carious, and the joints are healthy. From a woman, aged 58, whose ankle became swollen and painful without evident cause two years before her admission to the hospital. Amputation through the leg was performed.—See Stanley Ward Book, vol. vii. 578. The other section of the Tibia preserved in the preceding specimen after maceration. There is a large cavity in the articular end and internal malleolus, the walls of which present two large perforations ; the cavity was filled in the recent state by gelatinous tissue. A narrow canal extending from the upper part of the cavity along the centre of the shaft is cut across; its continuation passes obliquely through the bone and opens on the inner surface. Some distance above this a small cavity is seen which does not communicate with it. The lower end of the bone is rough and thickened by the formation of new bone on the surface. 579. The lower end of a Tibia, removed from a girl aged 17. A cavity in the cancellous tissue just above the articular extremity is filled by a deposit of caseous material. The ankle-joint was destroyed. Disease had existed in the leg and foot for fourteen years. *• 319 Vide also Nos. 67 and 68. SPECIMENS ILLUSTRATING THE CHANGES IN THE STRUCTURES OF JOINTS OR IN THE ARTICULAR ENDS OF BONES, THE EFFECTS OR CAUSE OF JOINT DISEASE. DESTRUCTION OF LIGAMENTS. 580. The Hip-Joints from the same person. In each the ligamentum teres is wanting, but a portion of its acetabular attachment is seen in one specimen. The capsules appear perfectly normal. The depressions for the attachment of the round ligaments are deeper than usual, and the cartilage forming the upper maro-in is soft and filamentous ; immediately above this point the cartilage of each0femur is ulcerated, superficially in one and more deeply in the other. On the under surface of the head of each femur, and near the margin of the arti- cular surface, there is a similar symmetrical erosion of the cartilage. A section tlirouo-h the head of one femur shows that the bone is healthy, except imme- diately beneath this ulceration, where it is much softened. The cartilage of the acetabulum preserved is so thin in places as to show the bone through it, and, at the upper margin, a plaque of cartilage of considerable size is detached. rr ii. 43 581 The Bones of two Hip-Joints from the same person. In each joint are exhibited exactly the same morbid changes. Nothing remains of either lio-amontum teres, except a few shreds of fibrous tissue attached to the head of