INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURES). 110 754. Portions of a Femur, fractured in two places by a wheel passing over the limb. One fracture is about one-third from its upper end, and the other at the same distance from its lower end. Ci ^ Vide Nos. 844, 875, 920. (In Case H.) COMPOUND FRACTURE. 755. The Lower End of the Femur and the Knee-Joint, from a woman aged 30. The specimen shows a compound comminuted fracture of the lower end of the femur. The sharp extremity of the broken bone had perforated the integuments a short distance above the patella. The limb was amputated about six weeks after the injury, on account of destructive inflammation of the knee-joint. See Lawrence Ward Book, vol. i, p. 372. 756. A Knee-Joint, exhibiting the consequences of a fracture in the lower part of the Femur. The fracture extended transversely through the shaft a little above the condyles, and downwards between the condyles into the joint. The upper portion of the bone was forced downwards by the side of the patella, and a few days after the fracture, it protruded through the integuments, and could not be again replaced. In this situation it has become firmly fixed by bone to the condyles and the lower part of the shaft. An inch and a half of the protruding portion of the femur perished, and its separation from the living bone had commenced by the formation of a shallow groove between them. The articular surfaces of the knee-joint are anchylosed. III. 34 757. A Knee-Joint from a young subject, with an Oblique Fracture of the Femur just above the condyles. The upper portion of the femur, crossing the lower portion obliquely, has been united by bone to the back part of the outer condyle. About two inches of the extremity of the upper portion of the femur which protruded through the skin were sawn off during life. Inflam- mation extending to the knee-joint has produced absorption of the articular cartilages and adhesion of the opposite parts of the joint. At the bottom of the bottle is the piece of bone which was removed by the saw. IH. 51 Vide Nos. 805 to 807. SEPARATION OF EPIPHYSES. 758. The Lower Extremity of a Femur, showing a separation of the epiphysis from the diaphysis. c- 42a From the same case as that from which No. 1056 was taken. (In Case H.) For other specimens, vide Nos. 909, 931, 932, 981. SPONTANEOUS FRACTURE. 759. Portions of two Femora. The larger portion, comprising the head, neck, and upper half of the shaft of the left femur, exhibits the effects of two fractures which were produced at different times by very slight force. The first fracture, which occurred about two inches below the lesser trochanter, is firmly united, but in such a manner that the two portions form an angle of about 75°. The second fracture happened a few days before death; it passes transversely, but very irregularly, through the shaft of the bone. The smaller portion, consisting of a section of the right femur, exhibits the union of a fracture precisely like that which first occurred in the left thigh. The rest of this bone is preserved in the Series I, No. 6. The texture of the bones is soft, light, spongy, and infiltrated with fatty matter. C. 116 (In Case H.) 760. Section of a Femur from a young woman, in which a fracture was pro- duced by the action of the surrounding muscles. The wall of the bone is much thinner than natural; but its substance apparently contained the usual proportion of earthy matter. The fracture is imperfectly united. i. 128 Presented by W. J. Wilson, Esq., Manchester.