570 CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. flexed and turned outwards to such a degree that they lie upon the sole. The other toes are also somewhat flexed. The boy was the subject of spina bifida, and both lower extremities were almost completely paralysed. 97. Cast of a Foot, the toes of which, especially the great toe, are unnaturally upturned. From a woman, aged 24 years, who had had paralysis of the muscles of the calf for three years. See case of S. E. Schofield, Mary Ward Book, January, 1880. DISEASES OP ARTERIES. 98. Cast of a Heart, with an Aorta, the arch of which is greatly dilated. An aneurism, arising from the anterior part of the dilatation, has protruded through the ribs and strenum. Presented by D. Fox, Esq. 99. Cast of a Neck, with a swelling produced by an aneurism of the lower part of the left common carotid artery. 100. Model of a Leg, in which extensive sloughing took place after ligature of the femoral artery. The ligature was applied in a case of aneurism, following a wound by which it is probable that the femoral vein, as well as the artery, was injured. DISEASES OF VEINS. 101. Cast of part of a man's Trunk. In consequence, apparently, of obstruction of the right jugular and subclavian veins, the superficial veins upon the right side of the front of the chest and abdomen were very large and tortuous. Through them the blood was carried from the right upper extremity and the right side of the head and face, towards the inferior vena cava. DISEASES OF THE NOSE, MOUTH, AND TONGUE. 102. Cast of part of the Face of a woman, in whom a new nose was made with a portion of skin from the forehead. The operation was performed by Mr. Vincent. 102a. Model of the Face of a man, with a large fungating, probably malignant, growth protruding from the nostrils. 102b. The same after operation. 103. Cast of a Tongue, showing two large gummata, one at the tip, the other on the dorsum. The epithelium around and between them is thickened and white. From a woman, who had long suffered from syphilis. Presented by Mr. Mackrill. DISEASES OF THE TEETH. 104. Cast of an Upper Jaw, with two supernumerary incisor teeth. 105. A similar Specimen.