DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE URETHRA AND PENIS. 436 the wall of the urethra into the corpus cavernosum, in which it extends for nearly two inches by the side of the urethra and terminates in a large irregular cavity near the bulb. A small calculus is fixed in the dilated orifice of one of the prostatic ducts. xxx* Vide No. 2402, in Series XXIX. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE GLANS PENIS AND PREPUCE. SIMPLE AND SYPHILITIC ULCERATION. 2884. A Glans Penis, exhibiting a large ulcer with a ragged irregular surface extending from below into the urethra. xxx- 25 2885. Sections of a Penis, in which the glans and a part of the corpus caverno- sum have been removed by ulceration. xxx- 26 Vide No. 2872. 2886. A Glans Penis, showing the recent scar of a syphilitic sore, which has destroyed the frennm. The scar is seen by the injection to be more vascular than £h.e normal mucous membrane of the glans. TUBERCULAR. DISEASE. 2887. Section of a Penis, in which tubercular matter is infiltrated through the whole of the corpus cavernosum. On a small separated portion, the fibrous covering has been reflected to show that it is unaltered. The cavity of the vena dorsalis penis is filled with tubercular matter. The corpus spongiosum and urethra are sound. The kidneys were affected with tubercular disease. TUMOURS, <£c. WARTS. 2888. Portion of a Penis, with warts upon the prepuce and the surface of the glans. Previous to the growth of these, the glans appears to have been pro- truded through an ulcerated aperture in the lower part of the prepuce. xxx. 27 2889. Portion of a Prepuce, from a man who suffered for a long time from a syphilitic sore. There is a ring of small warts around the preputial orifice. 2890. Sections of a Penis, exhibiting warty growths, springing from the whole inner surface of the prepuce. The glans, corpus cavernosum, and urethra are sound, except in one situation where ulceration has commenced upon the surface of the'glans. xxx< 29 EPITHELIOMA. 2891. A Prepuce removed by circumcision and laid open. The boundary between the outer and inner surface of the prepuce is marked by a nearly vertical line along the middle of the specimen. By the side of this line, and covering a large portion of the orifice and inner surface of the prepuce, is a circumscribed oval ulcer, with elevated hard edges, which presented the characters of cancerous ulcers of the skin. The exterior of the prepuce is healthy, except that it is wrinkled and contracted towards the margin of the ulcer. xxx' . From a middle-aged gentleman, who had congenital phimosis, and was unaware of the time at which the disease commenced. 2892. Sections of a Penis, in which nearly the whole of the inner surface of the prepuce is covered by a large growth of firm, apparently medullary, substance.