CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. 567 femur rests on the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, just below the inner tuberosity. From a man, aged 63 years, who had been subject to rheumatic attacks the last 0f_ which occurred eleven months before his admission into the Hospital . The P°^* "^dJ^™ knee remained swollen for six weeks after this attack, and that while the swelling was subsid ng, he suddenly felt, early one morning, the joint give way and the bones at once fell into much the same position shown in the cast. He recovered after amputation through the knee- joint. 54. A Cast of a left Foot and Leg, exhibiting a dislocation of the foot backwards. From a man, aged 58, who, four years before admission into the Hospital dislocated his foot backwards, by slipping forward as he came down stairs. He was aid up for about a month after the accident, but, at the end of this time, began to get about although the dislocation was not reduced. At the time of Ms admission the patient could walk pretty well, and without pain or special difficulty. There was a fair amount of motion, both in flexion and extension ot the foot. See Rahere Ward Book, vol. ii, p. 371 55. Cast of an Ankle-Joint, with a similar dislocation. 56. Cast of a Foot, showing a sub-astragaloid dislocation of the foot inwards; the head of the astragalus forms a prominence on the outer side of the foot. 57. Cast of a deformity of the Foot, produced by an injury. Probably a sub- astragaloid dislocation of the foot outwards. 58. Cast of an injury to a Foot of uncertain nature. There are two prominences on the outer side, the upper of which is probably the head of the astragalus, the lower, the anterior, and outer edge of the os calcis. The anterior bones of the tarsus appear to be somewhat displaced inwards. The lower part of the fibula was fractured. Presented by Gh Smith, Esq. DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. 59. Cast of the Back of a child, with angular curvature of the lumbar portion of the spine, in consequence of disease. 60. Cast representing an Iliac Abscess projecting at the upper and outer part of the thigh. 61. Cast representing a Psoas Abscess projecting at the upper and inner part of the thigh. 62. Cast of the upper part of a Thigh, with a Swelling produced by Psoas Abscess, and mistaken for a femoral hernia. From the person part of whose spine is in Series V, No. 1071. 63. Cast of a Back, with irregular prominence of the spinous processes of three lumbar vertebrae, in consequence of fracture of the spine. 64. Cast of a Back, after a similar injury, producing prominence of the spinous processes of the two upper lumbar vertebras. 65. Cast of a Back, after a similar injury, and displacement of one or more dorsal vertebrae. The patient recovered from the injury.