SERIES XXI. —♦— DISEASES AND INJTJEIES OF THE LIVEE. THICKENING OF THE SEROUS LINING. 2193. Portion of a Liver enveloped by a thick layer of substance resembling fibro-cartilage, which is but slightly adherent to its surface, and probably consists of the thickened and indurated peritoneal coat. The surface of the liver, exposed by the reflection of a portion of the layer, appears healthy and smoothly covered by its fibrous coat. xviii. o FATTY DEGENERATION. 2193a. A Section of a Liver affected with Fatty Degeneration. It is pale, smooth, and mottled of a yellowish white colour, owing to the infiltration of the cells at the periphery of the lobules with fat. Vide No. 3220, Series L. AMYLOID DEGENERATION. 2194. Section of a Liver which has undergone amyloid, lardaceous, or waxy change. The organ was greatly increased in size and weight. Its tissue was firm, compact, and waxy-looking. xviii. 35 ABSCESS. 2195. Portion of a Liver, in which a large circumscribed Abscess, situated near its convex surface, opened by an irregular orifice through the diaphragm and the adjacent portion of the adherent lung into one of the bronchial tubes. The surfaces of both the lung and the liver are covered by thick tough layers of false membrane. xviii. 34 Presented by Dr. Hue. 2196. Portion of a Liver containing a large abscess with ragged walls, surrounded by condensed hepatic tissue. 151 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 2197. Portion of a Liver, containing an abscess situated beneath the peritoneal surface of the organ. The adjacent layers of serous membrane are adherent, and its sac is obliterated over the abscess. 152 From the collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. Vide Series L, Nos. 3230 and 3231. CIRRHOSIS. 2198. Section of a Liver, the whole substance of which is indurated and pale from increase of the interlobular connective tissue. Its external surface is tuberculated and nodular, and a similar nodular appearance is shown on the surface of its section. It is an example of what is termed Cirrhosis, or Hobnailed Liver. xviii. 15 2199. Section of a Liver, presenting the characters of cirrhosis in a less degree than in the preceding specimen. xviii. 20 2200. Section of a Liver, the surface of which is deeply lobed and nodulated by the contraction of its substance attendant on the changes constituting cirrhosis xviit. 32