262 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE pneumonia, affecting only the lung on that side, complicated with delirium tremens. No ribs were fractured. 1701. Grey hepatization of the Lung. 71 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1702. Sections of a Lung, the substance of which is rendered uniformly pale and solid, by lymph effused in acute inflammation. xiv. 27 Vide Nos. 1679, 1754. ABSCESS IN THE LUNG. 1703. Portion of a Lung, in which there is an irregular oval Abscess, with a well- defined wall, smoothly lined by a thin layer of soft false membrane. The cavity was filled with thick yellow pus: branches of blood-vessels project upon its walls; and the surrounding substance of the lung is solid and very vascular, but not infiltrated with pus. XIV- 56 From a man between 50 and 60 years old, who died with aneurism of the arch of the norta. He was not supposed to have disease of the lungs. The cured popliteal aneurism in Series Till, No. 1407, was taken from the same patient. GANGRENE. 1704. A Lung, the lower part of which is in a state of Gangrene. The gangrenous portion is pulpy, flocculent, and of a brownish colour; and there are large blood-vessels extending through it, which have resisted the destructive process. Above, the gangrenous portion the lung is solid and contracted, so that the entire thickness of the organ is here reduced to two-thirds of an inch. Over the seat of the gangrene a large portion of false membrane has formed upon the surface of the lung. xiv. 36 Vide No. 1710. INFARCTUS. HEMORRHAGIC INFARCTTJS. 1705. Portion of a Lung, in the tissue of which a firm pale substance is deposited in irregular masses. It is believed, from the history of the case, that these are the remains of blood effused in the form of pulmonary apoplexy. Some of the blood retains its ordinary colour around the margins of the deposits ; but the rest has completely lost its colour. xiv. 8 From the same patient as No. 1316 in Series VII. 1706. Portion of a Lung, with effusion of blood in its substance, constituting pulmonary apoplexy. The effused blood forms firm hard masses in the lung ; at the borders of' the masses, as well as in other parts, the lung appears healthy. Xlv- 30 1707. Part of the lower lobe of a right Lung. With the exception of its upper third it is solid, and of a bright crimson colour, owing to the filling of its air-cells with coagulated blood. In the lower third there is a portion marked with black, pigment-like deposits, and circumscribed by a deep red margin. The canals of many of the larger bronchi are still conspicuous. xiv. 72 From the body of a man who had long suffered from cardiac disease, and lately from frequent haemoptysis. 1708. Sections of a Lung, affected with Pulmonary Apoplexy. In some parts the effused and coagulated blood forms hard, dark, circumscribed masses in the substance and at the borders of the lung: in other and more numerous parts, it appears like close-set, round, and oval spots or blotches of blood in healthy pulmonary tissue. XIY- From a young man who died with an aneurism of the arch of the aorta, the sac of which communicated by three small apertures with the trachea. It was believed that repeated small