DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 381 generally, are thin and light; and ia many parts of the inner table are deep depressions and foramina. (In Case D.) 2520. The skeleton of a child with a Hydrocephalic Skull. E- ° (In Case D.) 2521. A Hydrocephalic Skull. (In Case D.) Vide also Series I, No. 1, and Series L, No. 3216. INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES. LACERATION AND CONTUSION. 2522. Portion of Cerebrum, exhibiting a circumscribed softening, with loss of substance, and effusion of small quantities of blood in its convolutions. vi. 3b The consequence of external injury. 2523. Portions of Brain, exhibiting deep lacerations of its substance, with effusions of blood in the anterior, and in one of the middle, lobes of the cere- brum, and in both hemispheres of the cerebellum. vi. 25 From a woman who fell down-stairs upon her occiput. She became immediately insensible ; and died on the fifth day, with signs of acute inflammation of the brain. A fracture was found extending from the transverse ridge of the occipital bone through several portions of the petrous part of the temporal bone. GUNSHOT INJURIES. 2524. Portion of Cerebrum through which a bullet passed in the track which is indicated by a piece of glass, and which terminates in a rounded cavity, wherein the bullet was lodged. vi. 31 The patient fired two pistols into his mouth. He appeared to suffer but little from the injury, and was able to rise from his bed on the sixth day after the injury. He died with haemorrhage on the twelfth day. HERNIA CEREBRI. 2525. Portions of Brain, Skull, and Cerebral Membranes, exhibiting a Hernia Cerebri. The front of the preparation shows a vertical section of the protrusion and of the part of the brain from which it has arisen. In the centre of the protruded brain, which consists of medullary substance, the vessels have given way and blood is effused in it. The portions of the skull and of the membranes of the brain surrounding the base of the protrusion, were included in the section, for the purpose of showing how the protrusion has taken place through the openings formed by ulceration in the dura mater and pia mater, and through the aperture in the bone. vi. 32 2526. Section of the protruded Brain last described. The deep groove which intervenes between the outer part of the protruded mass and the portion of brain from which it has arisen, was occupied by the bone and by the membranes of the brain. vi. 33 The patient, a boy, 13 years old, had extensive fracture of the frontal bone, and several portions of bone were removed without injury of the dura mater. The protrusion of the brain began on the fifth day after the injury, and increased, without disturbance of the intellect or other remarkable symptoms, till the tenth day, when the protruded mass, consisting of healthy cortical and medullary substance, was cut off. For the next ten days the protrusion w as restrained by firm pressure; but, insensibility ensuing, the pressure was discontinued: the protrusion at once again made progress, and the patient died on the twenty-seventh day after receiving the injury, with softening of the brain. The case is published by Mr. Stanley, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. viii, p. 22. London, 1817. 2527. Portion of the Brain and its Membranes and of the right Frontal Bore of a boy, aged 8 years, who four months before his death sustained a compound fracture of the right frontal bone. A fortnight after the accident a portion of