280 DISEASES OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS. clavicle ; it extended forwards nearly to the median line, and backwards nearly to the margin of the trapezius. The patient's general health was not materially affected by it, and she recovered after its removal, but a portion left in the operation subsequently increased rapidly, and then ulcerated, and by discharge and pain, destroyed life in about twelve months. 1829. Section of a Tumour, of the same kind as that last described, and also removed from over a parotid gland. It is oval, deeply knobbed, measuring about an inch and three-quarters by an inch. In general aspect its cut surface resembles that of the preceding tumour. It is more distinctly shown to be invested with a thin layer of fibro-cellular tissue. xxxv. 84 The patient was a woman 48 years old. The tumour had been increasing, without pain, for three years. In microscopic structure it consisted of a tissue like that of glands, and of cartilage, with groups of well-formed cartilage cells, and of free stellate and spicate nuclei. Some of its constituents are represented in Sir J. Paget's Lectures on Tumours, fig. 25, p. 177, and fig. 30, p. 203. 1830. Section of a Tumour of the same kind, removed from a similar situation. In this, however, the cartilaginous predominates over the glandular constituent of the morbid structure. xxxv. 85 The patient was a woman 25 years old. The tumour had been observed twelve months. Its increase was regular and painless. About six weeks after this operation, another tumour of the same kind appeared, which was removed after eleven months' growth. No subsequent growth occurred for at least three years. The microscopic characters of this tumour were essentially similar to those of the last described. 1831. The half of a Tumour, probably of the same kind as the three last described, and, like them, removed from over the parotid gland. It differed from them, how- ever, in that its texture was, in the recent state, soft and flickering, and, on its cut surface, brightly shining and translucent. It was like soft and nearly diffluent cartilage, arranged in minute clustered lobes, and presenting various shades of grey, pale yellow, and light blue and pink. It was very easily broken or crushed, but yielded no creamy or other fluid. It was of oval form, and loosely connected with all the adjacent parts. xxxv. 86 The patient was a woman 26 years old. The tumour, commencing without any known cause, had been seven years in progress, and in the last year had grown very quickly. It felt, during life, like a cluster of enlarged, soft, lymphatic glands, elastic, compressible, easily movable. The patient recovered after its removal, and remained well for at least eighteen months. The chief microscopic structures of the tumour were like clusters, or acini of gland- cells, with intersecting fibro-cellular tissue and fine flat filaments. Its appearance in the recent state is shown in a drawing, No. 547. Presented by Mr. Barber. 1832. A Tumour which was removed from the right parotid region. The surface is largely nodulated and surrounded by a definite capsule. The tumour is composed of a yellowish-white, moderately soft material, having somewhat the appearance of cartilage. Near the centre is a small cyst, probably formed by mucoid degeneration. There is also a tendency to the development of small cysts in the softer parts of the growth. Microscopic Examination.—The tumour presented a mixed character. In some parts traces of newly-formed gland tissue are seen. The bulk of the tumour is made up of ill-developed connective and mucoid tissue, in which fasciculi of spindle-cell tissue and groups of round cells are scattered. . , From a man aged 56. The tumour commenced fifteen years before admission to the Hospital as a small lump ; it grew slowly at first, but latterly increased in size much more rapidly. ' It was circumscribed, and not adherent to the skin or subjacent parts. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 82. N.B.—For Salivary Calculi, see Series LIII.