572 CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. omentum, which could be easily returned; that on the left side contained part of the transverse arch of the colon, with omentum adherent to the lower portion of the sac. 123a. A similar Specimen. 124. Cast of an Inguinal Hernia in a woman. 125. Cast of an Inguinal Hernia in a woman. 126. Cast of a very large Inguinal Hernia in a woman. The swelling presented two chief portions, one of which was in the groin, the other in the labium. Presented, with the two preceding casts, by George Macilwain, Esq. 127. Casts of two Inguinal Hernias in a woman. That on the right side occupied only the groin; that on the left descended into the labium. 128. Cast of an Inguinal Hernia in a girl. 129. Cast of a Femoral Hernia in a man. 130. Cast of a Femoral Hernia in a man. 131. Cast of a Femoral Hernia in a man. 132. Casts of two Femoral Hernias in a man ; both are alike in size and shape. Presented, with the two preceding casts, by Q-eorge Macilwain, Esq. 133. Cast of a Femoral Hernia in a woman. 134. Cast of a Femoral Hernia in a woman. 135. Cast of a very large Femoral Hernia in a woman. It covered the front, and extended even beyond the outer border, of the upper part of the thigh. Presented by George Macilwain, Esq. 136. Cast of a large Umbilical Hernia in a woman. 137. Cast of a Hernia, which protruded through the inferior aperture of a woman's pelvis into the lower part of her labium. DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 138. Cast of a Liver, contracted and nodular from cirrhosis. DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 139. Cast of the Face and Neck of a woman, aged 20 years, exhibiting an enormous enlargement of the cervical lymphatic glands from lymphadenoma. She died extremely emaciated after two or three years' illness. Presented by D. H. Gabb, Esq. 140. Cast of a Neck, showing several rounded prominences due to infiltration of the cervical lymphatic glands with an Osteoid Growth. From a man who had long suffered from osteo-arthritis ; he died from an Osteoid Growth (osteo-sarcoma?) affecting the sternum, ribs, right clavicle, lymphatic glands of the neck and mediastinum, and the liver. The case is reported by Dr. V. D. Harris in the St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xi, p. 268.