392 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. from behind, the lens having been removed. The cornea is opaque and infiltrated with pus, and around its margin had ulcerated and given way. The eye was removed with a rapidly-growing orbital tumour, which had displaced the eye until it was no longer covered by the eyelids. There was extreme chemosis with ulceration of the cornea in consequence. Vide No. 2615. ULCERATION. Vide No. 2620. NEURO-PARALYTIC ULCERATION. 2580. A left Eye, in which there is a large ulcerated aperture in the middle of the cornea. The iris, the pupillary margin of which was adherent to this aper- ture, is thickened, and appears ragged, by the lymph deposited upon it. ix. 9 The patient -was 40 years old, and had a tumour in the left side of the pons, which com- pressed the origins of the fifth and facial nerves on the same side. Some signs of this tumour had existed for more than a year. She lost sensation and motion on the left side of the face, and motion in the left arm and leg. The hearing and taste were lost on the left side ; she was subject to repeated attacks of erysipelatous inflammation of the same side of the face : the left side of the interior of the nose was very vascular, and often discharged blood ; finally ulceration of the cornea ensued. The case is related by Mr. Stanley, in the London Medical Gazette, vol. i, p. 531, 1828. LEUCOMA. 2581. The anterior half of an Eye, in the cornea of which there is an old cicatrix, to which the iris is adherent. STAPHYLOMA—PARTIAL. 2582. Partial Staphyloma of the Cornea. Presented by B. J. Vernon, Esq. 2583. Staphyloma of the Cornea, the result of a large perforating ulcer occurring after measles. The parts were taken from a child aged 12. Vide No. 2596. STAPHYLOMA—TOTAL. 2584. A large Staphyloma of the Cornea and Ciliary Region, the result of ulce- ration after small-pox. 2585. Total Staphyloma of the Cornea. 2586. Staphyloma of Cornea, the result of long-standing inflammation of the iris and ciliary region (cyclitis). The iris is thickened, and with the parts around it, covered with lymph. It is adherent to the posterior surface of the cornea, 2587. A Staphylomatous Cornea, with the remains of the atrophied iris adherent to its inner surface. 2588. Total Staphyloma of the Cornea. Kemoved from a girl, aged 17 ; the entire cornea was said to have been opaque from infancy, but the enlargement of the globe had only been noticed for five or six years. TUMOURS OF THE CORNEA. 2589. Portion of an Eye which was removed. The whole of the substance taken away projected beyond the sclerotic ; it consists of a pale firm mass, in the middle of which is the thickened cornea. ix. 16 SARCOMA. 2590. The half of an Eye, the anterior part of which is covered by a firm