304 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE INTESTINES. and in most instances the sloughs appear to have been in process of detach- ment. There are also several nlcers in the caecum and its appendix. xvi. 48 From a case of enteric fever. 1995. A similar specimen. xvi. 49 1996. The termination of an Ileum, with the adjacent portion of the Caacum. The mucous lining of the small intestine is ulcerated. Some of the ulcers involve the solitary glands, others the Peyer's patches. The latter are laden with sloughs, formed of the mucous and sub-mucous coats, infiltrated with granular lymph, and at points discoloured from adhering faeces. The edges of the ulcers are irregular, raised, and everted, and the mucous membrane around, inde- pendently of the solitary glands, appears swollen and cedematous. The largest ulcer involves one surface of a cusp of the ileo-crecal valve, and termi- nates abruptly at the margin, and fails to implicate the side which is continuous with the lining of the large intestine. xvi. 125 From a case of enteric fever. 1997. Portion of Ileum from a case of enteric fever. Most of the Peyei*'s and solitary glands, with their investing and connecting tissues, have sloughed. Some of the sloughs have been separated, leaving nearly smooth ulcers based on the sub-mucous tissue ; others remain still attached, dark and soft. The borders of the Peyer's patches, and of the smaller ulcers, are, for the most part, raised, inverted, and overhanging, as if in progress of healing. But, in one of the Peyer's patches (the fourth from the top), the ulceration has made further progress, and perforated the intestine. xvi. 97 1998. Ulceration of the Intestine in Enteric Fever. Irregular sloughs hang from the ulcerated surfaces. 117 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1999. Portion of an Ileum, from a case of enteric fever, exhibiting an ulcerated surface of the mucous membrane after the detachment of numerous sloughs like those in No. 1993. xvi. 22 2000. Portion of an Ileum, from a case of enteric fever. Sloughs, including large portions of two patches of Peyer's glands, have been separated, and other portions, nearly detached, hang in loose shreds into the cavity of the intestine. The surface, exposed by the separation of the sloughs, is formed by the circular muscular fibres of the intestine, which appear healthy, and is surrounded by a thin overhanging border of apparently healthy mucous membrane. Several small ulcers, remaining after the complete separation of sloughs of the solitary glands, are situated between the two principal ulcers. xvi. 79 Presented by Dr. Hue. 2001. The lower extremity of the Ileum, showing extensive ulcerations, the consequence of enteric fever, by which the circular muscular fibres are exposed. At one point a circular opening, an inch in diameter, marks the destruction of the entire thickness of the intestinal wall. Here the faeces escaped into the cavity of the peritoneum, and gave rise to fatal peritonitis. A few shreds of lymph are attached around the serous aspect of this aperture.—See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. ix, p. 31. xvi. 117 2002. The last eight inches of an Ileum, in which there are several large circum- scribed ulcers of the mucous membrane. The ulcers are nearly circular, and from a quarter to three quarters of an inch in diameter; some have coalesced, and formed large and less regular ulcers. The bases of the ulcers are smooth and level, and formed by the circular muscular fibres of the intestine, which appear healthy; their borders arc bounded, and to a small extent overlapped by