SERIES XVIII. DISEASES AND INJUEIES OF THE INTESTINES. DILATATION. 1952. The Large Intestine of a child, enormously distended. It contained a large bucket-fall of fluid fcecal matter, which had been gradually accumulating from the time of the formation of the stricture in the rectum shown in specimen No. 2079. xvi. 94 Presented by Thomas Wormald, Esq. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 1953. Portion of an Ileum. The Peyer's and the solitary glands are enlarged and very prominent. The villi are also very turgid; but their tissue, like that of the rest of the intestine, appears healthy, xiv. 16 From the same patient as No. 1551 in Series VIII. Death was the consequence of diabetes. 1954. A Caecum, exhibiting a remarkable development of its follicles, the large open orifices of which are seen on every part of the mucous membrane. xvi. 26 From the same patient as the preceding. 1955. Portion of a Jejunum, the coats of which are generally thickened. There is also a diffuse superficial ulceration of the mucous membrane, with deeper ulcers of the free margins of the valvuke conniventes. xvi. 15 From a patient who died with a medullary and melanotic tumour in the liver, and from whom No. 195fi in this Scries, and No. 2214 in Series XXI were taken. The case is described by Mr. Langstaff, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. iii, p. 277. London, 1812. 1956. Portion of a Colon, exhibiting a general thickening and induration of the mucous membrane, with wart-like excrescences, and numerous small ulcers upon its internal surface. XyL 24 From the same patient as the portion of Jejunum shown in the preceding specimen. CHANGES IN CHOLERA. 1957. Portion of an Ileum. The Peyer's and solitary glands and the villi are of unusually large size. XVI g From a patient who died with Asiatic cholera. 1958. Portion of an Ileum, from a patient who died with cholera in the epidemic of 1848. Its mucous membrane is dark through fulness of its blood-vessels and its villi and solitary glands are very large. Some of the latter are raised above the surface, as if on pedicles. XVI F2ECAL FISTULA, AND ABSCESSES OPENING- INTO THE INTESTINE 1959. A Caecum, with parts of the ascending Colon, and of the abdominal wal