34 DISEASES OF BONES. 254. A Tibia from a child. Several pieces of the shaft have pe™hed. Some of them are exposed, some surrounded by new bone. There are many lound apertures in the new bone, leading to the cavity m which the dead bone is ccra tained. 255. The bones of the left Upper Extremity, from a man agec122 Rowing formation of new bone after Necrosis. Some portions of the humerus are in a state of necrosis, and are invested by new bone; others are m a stateot caries. The whole of the ulna has apparently perished and .s encased in new bone At the elbow-joint the humerus is firmly united to the ulna by bone The radfus is but little affected. The disease had existed for nine years when the arm was successfully removed at the shoulder-joint. (In Case F.) B t „ Presented by Mr. Barrow. 256 Section of a Femur in which there has been Necrosis of nearly the whole itgth and thickness of the wall of the shaft. The dead bone is separated and is completely enclosed in a case of new bone formed around it. There are sever/round and oval apertures leading through the new bone into the narrow space separating it from the surface of the sequestrum. A Drawing is preserved, No. 5f, (In Case F.) f 257. A Tibia, in which there has been Necrosis of a portion of the shaft and ot the cancellous tissue of its lower end. New bone has been formed abundant^ about the seat of the necrosis. The lower articular surface of the tibia w nearly all destroyed by ulceration. (In Case F.) In the following specimens the formation of new bone is excessive, probably owing to irritation from long retention of the sequestra. 258. Sections of a Femur, in which a portion of the whole circumference of the compact wall, six inches long, has perished, and has been separated from the s^rXnd™ bone. New bone has been abundantly formed around the seques- ™ Se is not in this new bone any aperture, or cloaca, leading into the narrow space around the sequestrum. The tissue of the new bone is compact and hlavy? and its surface hard and nearly smooth. It will be observed, also, Xat th7medullary tissue is entire within the perished part of the bone although its texture is nearly consolidated. (In Case E.) 259 Sections of a Tibia, which is presumed to have belonged to the same person as the femur last described, but from the opposite limb. It is diseased m exactly the same manner. A sequestrum of a large portion of the compact wall TcoWetely enclosed within the thick and^hard layer of new bone formed on and united with the remaining portions of the wal . The exterior of this new boners even smoother than that last described, and there is no aperture leading through it to the cavity containing the sequestrum. The medullary tissuej is entire, but partially consolidated. Drawings of this and the preceding specimen are preserved, Nob. Sd, 5e. (In Case E.) 260 A Tibia part of the shaft of which has suffered Necrosis. The bone is much enlarged, and is porous, and rugged from chronic ostitis and the forma- tion of new bone on its surface. Ofll P«rt of a Tibia in which there has been Necrosis of a portion of the shaft 26andan abundlTarnation of new bone on all the adjacent part The dead boneTs completely separated, and lies loose in the cavity surrounded by the new