476 DISEASES OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. aged 41. The disease had existed eighteen months. Some large cancerous glands were removed from the corresponding axilla. xxxrv". 35 3177. A Scirrhous Cancer of the Breast, in which after the disease had been six or more years in progress, and had ulcerated and protruded through the integu- ments, it ceased to increase, shrivelled, and partially healed. It appears now as a dry lobed mass closely fixed to the ribs and intercostal muscles. Presented by Mr. Sturt. 3178. A portion of a Hard Cancer of the Breast. On the surface of the section the orifices of dilated ducts are seen; some of them are of considerable size. They are imbedded in a firm fibrous material. Worm-like masses of a curdy material could be squeezed from the ducts in the recent state. Microscopical Examination.—The tumour is made up of fibrous tissue, mucb less formed and dense than iu ordinary scirrhous cancer. Everywhere dilated ducts are seen ; the smaller can in some places be traced, dividing and opening into dilated alveoli, which as well as the smaller ducts, contain a yellowish granular material, which does not stain with nuematoxylon. A few acini of nearly normal size, and containing a few nuclei irregularly scattered m their interior, are seen, and from this every transition to extreme dilatation is seen. Nuclei are m some cases thickly grouped in the lymph spaces around the acini, and large groups ot nuclei having a similar appearance are met with in the substance of the tumour. History.—From a woman, aged 45. The tumour was first noticed three months ago, when it was half its present size. It has been growing quickly without much pam. Her lather s mother died of cancer.—See Lawrence Ward Book, vol. vi, p. 346. 3179. Section of a Scirrhous Cancer in a woman's breast. The cancer structures occupy the whole mammary gland, and much of the skin over it; and protrude through the skin with a deeply ulcerated surface. The section through the substance of the cancer shows a firm, close-textured, white substance, well defined, intersected by short branching white lines, and dotted with what appear to be orifices of lactiferous tubes filled with a yellowish material. The ulcerated surface is deeply and unequally excavated, and coarsely nodular; its border is elevated, slightly everted, sinuous, and, in part, surrounded by nodules of the cancerous substance, elevating and thinning the adjacent skm. xxxv. 98 The patient was 50 years old when the disease commenced. After nearly two years of pain- less progress and four months of ulceration, it was removed with the breast, and some diseased axillary°glands. Within three months after the operation small cancerous tubercles began to form in the skin about the scar, and in twenty months the patient died. 3180. A Scirrhous Cancer of the Breast. The skin and surrounding gland and cellular tissue have been separated from the tumour, which is of an irregular disc shape and of extreme hardness. The tumour is composed of a dense fibrous tissue in the centre of which is an oval nodule about the size of a small chesnut, and as hard as bone ; a distinct line of separation is seen between it and the surrounding growth. Imbedded in the very dense fibroid tissue of which the nodule is formed are numerous large granules and conglomerations of calcareous matter, which caused it to cut like bone. The microscopic characters of the tumour were those of scirrhous cancer; the cells were very abundant The central part of the calcareous nodule was composed of a dense fibrous tissue, containing no cellular elements; towards the periphery the characters more and more approached those of the surrounding tumour. ( From a woman, aged 54 years, who had noticed the tumour six weeks before applying for advice • during that time it grew considerably. It presented the ordinary characters of scirrhous cancer. She had noticed some small lumps m the breast smce she was fifteen years 0f age—See Stanley Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 52, 1878. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 151. 3181. A sloughing Cancerous Mass from the Breast of a woman, aged 59 years,