418 DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COVERINGS, AND THE SPERMATIC CORD. 2777. The left Testicle removed from a man, aged 40. It is divided by a longi- tudinal section. The whole interior is filled by a deposit of caseous matter; scarcely a trace of the natural structure of the testis is visible. The testis had been enlarged for eight months. The right epididymis was also considerably increased in size. XXVI1L b/ 2778. Sections of two Testicles. In one testicle the place of the natural struc- ture is entirely occupied by large masses of caseous matter. In the other, a small portion of the natural structure remains around a mass of caseous matter. Ulceration of the skin and of the tunics of one testicle had taken place, allowing the protrusion of the morbid substance. xxviii. 50 Both testicles were removed at the same time from a man, 40 years old. 2779. A Testicle, exhibiting a circumscribed mass of caseous matter m its centre. The adjacent part of the testicle appears healthy, and the morbid deposit has produced no enlargement. The other testicle was siimlarly diseased^ 2780. A Testicle affected with Tubercular Disease. The epididymis is filled with caseous matter, which has broken down into an abscess. A caseous mass occupied also the mediastinum testis. Numerous miliary tubercles could in the recent state be distinguished, scattered through the substance of the testicle. They were abundant near the mediastinum, but few near the surtace ot the testicle. The disease was of four months' duration, and occurred in a man, aged 41 years; the exciting cause was unknown. 2781. A similar specimen. A mass of caseous matter occupies the globus minor It has a circular outline and a deeply crenated edge. The testicle itself appears healthy. A portion of the gland protrudes through an ulcer of the scrotum. The patient from whom the testicle was removed had contracted gonorrhoea a.year before admission into the Hospital; and the affection of the testicle dated from a short time after this attack. 2782. A Testicle, exhibiting distinct and circumscribed deposits of caseous matter in the epididymis. The vas deferens is obliterated and contracted The body of the testicle appears healthy. xxviii. 66 TUMOURS OF THE TESTICLE. ENCHONDROMATA. . 2783. An Enchondroma of the Testicle. The cartilage is arranged m tortuous columns, which, in a transverse section, have the appearance of nodules, the centre of most of the columns contains a yellow opaque material, by the removal of which a central canal is formed in some instances. The columns are separated by a small amount of connective tissue. The epididymis is also converted into a mass of cartilage. No trace of normal gland tissue exists in the organ. From a man, aged 22 years, who first noticed that the testicle was enlarged four years before its removal- during the last year it remained stationary. The testicle was extremely hard, except at one point above and behind : this was found to be occupied by a cyst and some unaltered gland tissue. No return of the disease had taken place five years alter the operation. —See Abernethy Ward Book, vol. iii, p. 153. 2784. Section of a Mass occupying the place of a Testis from a man, aged 37 years. The lower portion is composed of tortuous, cylmdriform pieces ot