150 INJURIES OF JOINTS, DISLOCATIONS, ETC. DISLOCATION OF THE WRIST-JOINT. CARPUS FORWARDS. 1034. A Wrist-Joint, exhibiting dislocation of the carpns forwards. The radins is arched with a convexity directed posteriorly near its lower end: but there is no appearance of its having been fractured. HI. 39 DISLOCATION OF THE DIGITS. OF THE THUMB. 1035. A portion of the Left Hand of a man who was killed by the fall of an arch- way. The proximal phalanx of the thumb is dislocated forward on to the anterior surface of the head of the metacarpal bone. The posterior portion of the capsule of the joint is torn across. Reduction was readily effected by exten- sion. DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. BACKWARDS. 1036. Dissection of a recently dislocated left Hip-Joint, which was reduced during life. The gluteus maximus and medius have been removed, the gluteus minimus is partially reflected: neither were injured. The quad- ratus fern oris is cut across, and the pyriformis, gemelli, and obturator in- ternus muscles are reflected outwards ; of these, the pyriformis and superior gemellus were slightly lacerated. The obturator internus is extensively lace- rated (this is partially due to immersion of the specimen and to traction on the muscle) : no other muscles were torn. The posterior part of the rim of the acetabulum, formed by the ischium, is broken off. The ligamentum teres is torn across at its acetabular insertion. The cartilage covering the lower and anterior part of the head of the femur has been irregularly ground off. The torn capsule is seen surrounding the posterior surface of the head of the femur; the rent, which passes along its acetabular attachment, is limited to the portion inserted into the ischial margin of the acetabulum, but does not extend quite as far forward as the cotyloid notch. The ilio-femoral ligament is intact. There were considerable extravasations of blood around the upper part of the femoral vein, between the gluteus medius and minimus, and into the substance of the obturator exteraus. The head of the femur appears, from the dissection and physical signs, to have been thrown on to the body of the ischium on a level with the lower part of the great ischiatic notch. From a man, aged 55 years. Whilst at work excavating, a fall of earth took place upon him. He was admitted to the hospital with a sciatic dislocation of the left hip. Reduction was readily effected by traction on the thigh in a position of slight flexion and adduction, the manipula- tion of flexion and circumduction having failed. Symptoms of peritonitis came on and he died on the following day. The post mortem examination revealed intense general peritonitis occa- sioned by the rupture of a portion of the intestine, which at the time of the accident lay appa- rently in the right inguinal canal.—See Pitcaim Ward Book, vol. v, p. 377. There is a drawing of the specimen, No. 57. 1037. A Hip-Joint, in which a dislocation of the Femur occurred a week before death. The capsule has been opened in front to show the head of the femur, which is deprived of many large portions of its cartilage, some of which are seen loosely connected with the neck of the bone. At the back part of the joint is the wide laceration in the capsule which was made by the head of the femur in its dislocation from the acetabulum. It was supposed that the dislo- cated head of the femur was situated upon the ischium, close to its spine. A