433 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE URETHRA AND PENIS. 2864. A Urethra, the whole of the mucous membrane of which is thickened and indurated. There are, besides, two strictures, one immediately before the bulb, the other about two inches from the external orifice. xxx. 22 " BRIDLE » STRICTURE. 2865. A Penis, in which the canal of the urethra is traversed by eleven distinct cords or bands. These bands are flat and narrow, from the eighth of an inch to half an inch in length, and attached at both their extremities to the wall of the urethra. They lay close to the wall of the canal, but are now raised by portions of glass passed beneath them. They are all situated between the prostatic portion of the urethra and the part about two inches anterior to the bulb. xxx. 37 From a man in whom insti*ument3 had been very frequently passed for the cure of stricture. For other specimens of stricture, vide Nos. 2866 to 2868, 2870 to 2875, 2877, 2879 to 2883 in this Series; and 3215 in Series L. CONSEQUENCES OF STRICTURE. DILATATION OF THE CANAL BEHIND THE STRICTURE. 2866. The anterior part of a Penis, with a stricture in the spongy portion of the urethra, about two inches from the external orifice. Behind the stricture the canal is dilated ; its walls also are thickened, and penetrated by an ulcerated aperture which leads into a fistulous passage extending to the integuments. xxx. 2 2867. Sections of a Urethra and Bladder. There is a stricture of the urethra about three inches anterior to the bulb, and behind it the whole of the urethral canal is dilated. At the fundus of the bladder is a small cyst, formed by the protrusion of the mucous membrane between the hypertrophied muscular fibres. xxx. 7 Vide Nos. 2871, 2873. ULCERATION OF THE URETHRA AT, AND BEHIND THE STRICTURE. 2868. A Bladder and Urethra. There is a stricture in the urethra immediately anterior to the bulb. From the bulb to the bladder the mucous membrane of the urethra is ulcerated in some situations, and in others is covered by projectino- granulations with calculous matter deposited on them. The bladder is thickened and exceedingly contracted; and its mucous membrane, raised in deep ridges and folds, is superficially ulcerated and nearly covered by calculous matter. xxx. 13 2869. A Bladder and Urethra. A large portion of the urethra anterior to the bulb is superficially ulcerated, and two deeper ulcerations extend from this part into the adjacent tissues. One of the openings thus formed communicates with a sac enclosed by the indurated cellular tissue around the urethra. The muscular coat of the bladder is greatly hypertrophied, and its mucous mem- brane appears thickened and indurated ; its cavity was lined throughout by a thick layer of lymph, upon which calculous matter was deposited. The lymph was but loosely connected with the mucous membrane of the bladder, from which it has been separated and reflected in a continuous layer. xxx. 12 2870. Section of a Penis, exhibiting a stricture of the urethra at the junction of its membranous portion with the bulb. The mucous membrane is ulcerated at the seat of the stricture. xxs ^ 2871. A Bladder and Urethra. There was a stricture of the urethra about two inches from its external orifice. At the situation of the stricture and imme- diately behind it, an ulcer nearly half an inch in diameter has penetrated the wall of the urethra, and permitted the escape of urine into the surroundine 2 r