t3G DISEASES OF BONES. partly formed by the articular cartilage and the periosteum. The patient, a man aged 27 years, from whom the limb was removed by amputation, had suffered from the disease for twelve months. L Microscopic examination shows that the tumour is a myeloid and round-cell sarcoma. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 32 ; and a drawing, A. 8. 466. A Section of the lower part of a Femur, and of a brain-like Tumour, which has grown within the condyles and has extended them m a large thm-walled cavity. The tumour projects chiefly backwards and laterally; a part ot it is covered by the articular cartilage of the femur, which is extended over itMt m the middle, between the condyles, the cartilage is perforated by the morbid growth penetrating into the knee-joint in front of the crucial ligaments. I. 40 Microscopic Examination.-lhe tumour consists of spindle and round ceUs, with myeloid cells thickly interspersed throughout it. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 33 ; and a drawing, A. b. 467. Sections of the lower part of a Fibula, with the Tibia and Astragalus The walls and periosteum of the lower end of the fibula including the malleolus are extended into a thin osseous and fibrous capsule, by the internal growth of a tumour composed partly of cartilage and partly of nbro-plastic tissue (mye- loid sarcoma). The tumour is of oval shape, and measures about three inches by two; its surface is knobbed, and exactly fitted to the interior ol the bone extended around it, yet not so firmly united but that they could be cleanly separated, as in the" upper section here shown. The cut surface of the tumour displays the greater part of its mass formed of pale greyish, glisten- il cartilage, while the remainder, mingled with the cartilage m no regular ar?angement, is pale pinkish-white, more vascular, softer, and obscurely fila- mentous. ' The patient was a young man. The tumour had grown slowly and pulsated distinctly probabFy S impulses communicated to it from vessels m xts interior ; for there were no large vessels external to it from which extensive pulsations could be derived. Presented by Langston Parker, Esq. 468. A Section of the upper part of a Tibia, and of a large Medullary Tumour which has formed within it. The tumour consists partly of a soft, brown, fibrous-looking substance, and partly of coagulated blood ; and there are some small cvsts in it. A thin crust of the expanded walls of the bone surrounds the tumour Upon the upper part of it, in the situation of the articular surface of the tibia, there is a deep excavation which lodged one of the condyles of the femur. The diseased structure appears to have originated m the cance - lous tissue of the head of the tibia, and is exactly circumscribed; the shaft below it is healthy. ' Microscopic Examination.-The tumour consists of spindle and round-cell tissue with myeloid cells thickly interspersed in it. Microscopic sections are preserved, JNo. d*. 469 A large round-cell Sarcoma nineteen inches in circumference at its greatest diameter, affecting the upper end of the tibia and, slightly, the lower end of the femur, with the crucial ligaments. _ The tumour presents numerous cysts with smooth lining membranes, which contained when fresh a yellowish or chocolate-brown viscid fluid It consists of a hard part composed of earthy matter deposited here and there in considerable amount, but with no indication of true ossification, and a soft part presenting the characters of a round-cell sarcoma with a few myeloid cells and many cells of irregular form and size. *o< 14/ See Abemethy Ward Boole, vol. ii, p. 337.