SERIES xvir. i - 1» DISEASES AND INJDMES OF THE STOMACH. POST MORTEM DIGESTION. 1895. The Stomach of a Child, presenting the appearances produced by digestion acting after death on the walls of the organ itself. There are four large irre- gular apertures through the coats at the great end and middle of the stomach. The edges of these apertures are soft and flocculent, and the remaining mucous membrane of the adjacent parts is soft, pale, and almost gelatinous in its appearance. xv. 8 The child was 10 years old, and died, after a short illness, with inflammation of the trachea. 1896. Portion of a Stomach, exhibiting attenuation, with paleness and softening, of a part of its great arch. The dark streaks in the altered portion of the stomach are produced by the blackening of the blood coagulated in its vessels. xv. 13 It is probable that these changes were occasioned by the action of the secretions of the stomach upon its coats after death. 1897. Parts of a Stomach and a Diaphragm, exhibiting the effects of the action of the gastric fluid after death. The greater part of the fundus, or cul-de-sac, of the stomach is destroyed, and a large aperture through the walls has been here made by the action of the digestive fluid. The borders of the aperture are formed by soft, flocculent, and shreddy tissue ; and the mucous membrane adja- cent to it is soft and pulpy, as if nearly dissolved. In the pyloric half of the stomach little change appears, but in the diaphragm there are large apertures by the side of the left lobe of its tendinous centre, whose soft shreddy margins indicate that they were produced by the digestive power of the fluid escaping from the stomach. xv g-j The parts were taken from a fat woman, 60 years old, who died about twenty-four hours alter a fit of apoplexy, which produced immediate and continued unconsciousness. In the afternoon, just previous to the fit, she had eaten more food than she had for some time pre- viously been able to obtain ; and she had vomited after the fit. The body was examined forty hours after death. The case is in the St. Bartholomew's Hospital Meporis, vol. vii, p. 39. 1898. Digestion of part of the wall of a Stomach immediately below the oeso- phagus. The mncous membrane is soft and jelly-like, and the walls are extremely thin over a considerable extent. A circular opening allowed the gastric contents to reach the diaghragm, which was soft and eroded opposite the aperture. There were no adhesions of the peritoneal surfaces. 98 The patient died suddenly one hour and a half after dinner. Five days previously he fell and suffered from a slight concussion. The digestion of the stomach was the only post mortem condition noticed. J 1 From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. U 2