524 URINARY CALCULI. 101. Sections of a Calculus. Urate of Ammonia surrounded by Oxalate of Lime, and coated with Fusible Calculus, which forms at one part a thick mass. From the bladder of a child 6 years old. Lithotomy by Sir Wm. Lawrence. 102. Sections of a Calculus. Urate of Ammonia with Urate and Oxalate of Lime; around this crystallised Oxalate of Lime: the whole coated by a mixture of Phosphate and Carbonate of Lime with traces of Uric Acid. From the bladder of a boy 10 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Stanley. 103. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia with a trace of earthy matter; surrounding lighter portion, Oxalate of Lime with a little Uric Acid; the rest, Oxalate of Lime with animal matter alone. Mixed Phosphates adhere externally in detached portions. From the bladder of a man 35 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle. 104. Section of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia with Oxalate of Lime; next layer, Oxalate of Lime; externally, principally the Fusible Calculus. 105. Section of a large Calculus. Oxalate of Lime, surrounded by the mixed Phosphates, containing much animal matter and some Uric Acid. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia with Oxalate of Lime. From the bladder of a man 26 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle. 106. Sections of a large Calculus. Oxalate of Lime, coated by the mixed Phosphates. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia containing Oxalate of Lime. From the bladder of a lad 17 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Vincent. The bladder and kidneys of the patient from whom this calculus was removed are preserved in Series XXIX, No. 2444. 107. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia, surrounded by Oxalate of Lime and a little Urate of Ammonia; coated by the mixed Phos- phates. From the bladder of a boy. Lithotomy by Sir Wm. Lawrence. URATE OF AMMONIA SUCCEEDED BY FOUR OR MORE LAYERS. 108. Sections of a large Calculus. Central portion, Urate of Ammonia. Next layer, Oxalate of Lime. Third layer, looser in texture, Fusible Calculus. Fourth or outermost layer, Urate of Ammonia, with, possibly, a very small portion of Oxalate of Lime. Analysis by Dr. Hue. From the bladder of a man 36 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Abbott. 109. Sections of a large Calculus. Central portion, Urate of Ammonia with Oxalate of Lime, surrounded by Oxalate of Lime ; next, Uric Acid nearly pure; a thin layer of the Fusible Calculus coats the whole. Taken from the bladder after death. Weight five ounces, five scruples, one grain. 110. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus (the long axis of which is perpendicular to the axis of the calculus), Urate of Ammonia with a little Oxalate of Lime ; surrounding portion, Urate of Ammonia with the mixed Phosphates; the remainder, mixed Phosphates with a little Uric Acid. From the bladder of a boy 1 year and 10 months old. Lithotomy by Mr. Vincent. Ill Section of a Calculus. Nucleus, Urate of Ammonia with Oxalate of Lime, surrounded by Oxalate of Lime; the remainder may be divided into three