URINARY CALCULI. 46. A Calculus. Phosphates, coating, probably, a Nucleus of Uric Acid. From a child 2 years and 10 months old, who died after lithotomy, with haemorrhage one kidney and suppuration in the other. Presented by E. A. Lloyd, Esq. CALCULI HAVING THREE LAYERS. URIC ACID. URATE OF AMMONIA. EARTHY PHOSPHATES. 47. Section of a Calculus. Uric Acid, alternating with Urate of Ammonia con- taining Oxalate of Lime; surrounded by a thick layer of the Phosphates. From the bladder of a man 36 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle. 48. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus, Uric Acid ; surrounding this a grey band of Urate of Ammonia; remainder, mixed Phosphates with crystals of the Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia. From the bladder of a boy 10 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Stanley. 49. Sections of a Calculus. Nucleus and surrounding yellow portion, impure Uric Acid with Oxalate of Lime, apparently in distinct layers; grey layer around these, Urate of Ammonia with a much larger quantity of Oxalate of Lime, uniformly mixed; external layer, Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia, with some Phosphate of Lime. From the bladder of a man 57 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Earle. After the wound had healed the patient died with diseased bladder and kidneys. 50. Calculus composed almost entirely of Uric Acid and Urates. The outer part contains also Phosphate of Magnesia and Ammonia, with a trace of Calcium Phosphate. The outer layer is infusible, but the porous portion is fusible. The Nucleus is almost free from phosphates. 51. Two Calculi. The larger is composed of Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia, with Phosphate of Lime and a considerable quantity of Urate of Ammonia, Uric Acid, and Animal Matter, probably investing a nucleus similar to the smaller divided calculus, which consists at its centre of Uric Acid nearly pure, surrounded by Urate of Ammonia, with Phosphate and Oxalate of Lime, and coated by the same mixture as the larger. From the bladder of a boy 8 years old. Lithotomy by Mr. Abbott. The small stone was first removed ; and the larger one two years afterwards/ 52. A Calculus. Nucleus, Uric Acid; surrounded by a layer of Uric Acid, Urate of Ammonia, and earthy Phosphates ; external layer, triple Phosphates. From a boy. Lithotomy by Mr. Stanley. URIC ACID. OXALATE OF LIME. EARTHY PHOSPHATES. 53. Section of a large Calculus. Nucleus, Uric Acid; around it, a thin layer of Oxalate of Lime; the outer white layer fusible. Analysis by Dr. Hue. From the bladder of a man 42 years old. Lithotomy by Sir Win. Lawrence. 54. Calculus removed from the bladder of a boy aged 11 years. He had suffered from stone for four or five years. The outer layer consists of the Phosphates and Uric Acid. The middle layer of Oxalate of Lime and Uric Acid. The nucleus of Uric Acid alone. 55. Three principal layers exist in this Calculus. The outer layer is chiefly