200 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE angles of the valves. The borders of the ulcer are sharp, abrupt, and jagged, like those of one making quick progress. The remainder of the aorta, and of the valves appears healthy. xn- ^ 1337. Part of a Heart, with the beginning of the Aorta and its valves. It is not certain whether there were originally two valves, or whether the appearance now presented be due to ulceration having destroyed the adjacent borders of two valves that were originally single and distinct. In either case ulceration, like that shown in the preceding specimens, has extensively destroyed the valvular substance, as well as its attachment to the base of the ventricle and its free border. A portion of the arch of the aorta, immediately behind the disease of the valves, is dilated in au irregular aneurismal sac. The internal coat of the dilated part appears entire, but slightly thickened and tuberculated. The opening of one of the coronary arteries is just above the dilatation. xn. 82 1338. Part of an Aorta. Ulceration, like that last described, has destroyed part of a valve, thickened and indurated by previous disease, but has not penetrated its free border. The whole inner coat of the aorta for a distance of from an inch to an inch and a half above the valves, is much thickened, opaque-white, and tuberculated. Immediately behind the ulcerated opening through the valve, a small portion of the diseased aorta is dilated into a hemispherical aneurismal pouch. m* ^ 1339. Part of the left side of a Heart, with fibrin deposited on a large portion of both surfaces of the mitral valve, and on the borders and ventricular surface of the aortic valves. The deposits are soft, yellowish, warty, and firmly attached. The valves are opaque and slightly thickened; those of the aorta are also contracted. xn- ^9 1340. Extensive disease of the Aortic Valves, which are thickened, adherent amongst themselves, and drawn towards the ventricle. One of the cusps is ulcerated, and, chiefly about the margins of this ulcer, shreds of fibrin hang down into the adjacent cavity. The left ventricle contains an old coagulum, which clings to the posterior surface of the mitral cusps, and to the wall of the cavity leading to the aorta. • ^ From the collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 1341. A Heart from a child aged 4 years. The aortic valves are opaque and thickened, and their free margins are curled backwards towards the artery. Two of the valves are closely united by their adjacent margins. xn. 52 1342. A Heart exhibiting changes of structure in several of its internal parts. The lining membrane of the right auricle is thickened and opaque, and that of the left auricle has undergone the same changes in a much greater degree. The tricuspid, mitral, and aortic valves are thickened. The mitral valve is hard and rigid, and earthy matter is deposited along its free margin. The free margins of the aortic valves also are very thick, round, and re-curved. The cavity of the left auricle is enlarged, and upon its internal surface, near the appendix, wras a mass of fibrin, on the removal of which the membrane beneath was found rough and otherwise changed. Both the ventricles also are enlarged, but their walls are not proportionately thickened. xn. 33 1343. A Heart. One cusp of the aortic valve is much smaller than natural; its original free edge is adherent to the inner coat of the aorta, excepting just opposite the mouth of the coronary artery, so that this cusp was rendered quite useless. The free edges of the other cusps are much thickened and contracted, but not uniformly, so that in both the corpora arantii are displaced. The aortic valve was incompetent. The left ventricle is hypertrophied.