16 DISEASES OF BONES. 108. A Tibia and Fibula. The shaft of the tibia is generally enlarged by external deposits of new bone. The head of the fibula is united by bone to that of the tibia. (In Case P.) 109. Sections of a Tibia and a Fibula. The shaft of the tibia is generally en- larged and hardened. Upon its external surface there are irregular deposits of bone, sharp-edged and overhanging. Internally it presents a nearly uniform, closely cancellated texture, in which there is hardly a distinction between the walls and the medullary cavity. Just above the ankle-joint, in the situation ot the medullary canal, there is an irregular elongated cavity communicating ex- ternally by a small round aperture, or cloaca, through the walls. It is probable therefore that there was necrosis of a portion of cancellous tissue at this part. The fibula is thinly covered by new bone. A- 6 5 (In Case F.) 110. Sections of a Tibia and Fibula. Both bones are thickened, chiefly by ex- pansion of their walls, and there is ossification of the interosseous ligament. ^ (In Case F.) 111. Portion of a Tibia exhibiting deep ulceration of its walls, with thickening and induration of the surrounding bone. A- (In Case F.) 112 A Tibia o-enerally enlarged. Three small ulcerated apertures through its walls above the malleolus make it probable that the enlargement was connected either with necrosis or with syphilitic ulceration. A- (In Case F.) 113 A Great Toe with its Metatarsal Bone removed by operation. There is a broad flat growth of cancellous bone from the under part of the distal extremity of the metatarsal bone. " The uafcient was a man about 30 years old. In consequence of a laceration of the soft p Jt inPthe Sle here remained a cicatrix on the under and inner edge of the foot. The n-n a- £JbTthe surro4ding parts, excited by the pressure on this cicatrix m progression, was the cause of the growth of bone. 114 Various Bones from Cows, on all of which there are external deposits of light grev, porous, new bone. The deposits extend, in many cases, over the whole shaft They are, for the most part, in thin layers, but are in some cases accumulated in thick ridges and knobs. A- ^ The cows from which they were taken were fed in meadows near some arsenic-works ; and lt is p^sTmec? that these changes of the bones which were observed m many of the cows, were the results of the impregnation of the air or of to food, with arsenic Presented by Dr. Koupell. (In Case F.) INFLAMMATION PRODUCING RAREFACTION OF BONES (Rarefying Ostitis). 115 Sections of the Bones of an Elbow-Joint. Their articular ends are enlarged f wra+pd The enlargement of the bones, which is greatest on the ulna, ^dTohMy uponT separation of the layers of their walls. Their whole texture is very light and brittle. From a boy 10 years old, in whom the disease had existed three years. He recovered after amputation of the limb. 116 Portion of the Os Innominatum of a young person. The bone is increased in thickness by the separation of its layers and the expansion of the cancellous tissue. Its texture is very light and brittle. I ^»