DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. irregular warty growth, which consists of numerous very densely-set processes, elevated on narrow pedicles. XL This growth had existed from infancy; it was very vascular, and had the general aspect of a large nsevus. 2722. Portion of Skin, removed from the side of a girl's neck. Its surface is covered by an irregular warty growth, which had existed from birth, and during life appeared very vascular, and like a narvus. XI. 12 2723. Portion of Skin removed from the posterior and lower part of the trunk of a middle-aged woman. A large portion of skin, originally occupied by a naevus, has undergone the following changes. It presents an irregular warty surface, composed of a multitude of densely-set, lobulated growths, which are for the most part elevated on narrow pedicles. The whole are covered by a thiu layer of dark cuticle, detached portions of which fill up in great measure the interspaces between the several growths. About the centre of the portion of skin, there is a pendulous tumour, of the same characters as the others, but of much larger size. They are all composed of a dense cellular tissue, similar to that of the corium. xi. 23 Presented by William Taylor, Esq. 2724. Right lower extremity of an infant, aged 10 months. The texture of the cutis is natural over the buttock, but uniformly thickened over the thigh, while on the leg and foot it is very much hypertrophied, condensed, and studded with numerous knots and tubercles. The subcutaneous tissue is greatly increased, being from one to two inches thick about the calf and upper part of the back of the thigh. It is everywhere occupied by a dense, reticulate, spongy, venous tissue of a cavernous character; there are but few venous trunks to be seen, but everywhere a structure like erectile tissue, very elastic, and which contracted on section. In the subcutaneous tissue of the foot, leg, and lower part of the thigh, the meshes of this cavernous texture are very fine and close. Towards the back of the upper part of the thigh, where it joins the buttock, the reticular and cavernous spaces are of much larger dimensions, some being as large as the end of one's thumb. The intermuscular connective tissue is everywhere occupied by the same cavernous structure. Similar tissue was found on the right side within the pelvis, extending into the loins behind the right kidney. The muscles are healthy and of normal size. For a further account of the case, which appears to be one of nsevoid elephantiasis, sec St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. v. Vide also Nos. 3341 to 3346 in Series L ; also casts of morbid growths, Nos. 170 to 173. DISEASES OF THE CUTANEOUS GLANDS. SEBACEOUS CYSTS. 2725. A Cyst, removed by operation from beneath the skin covering the scapula. It contained masses of grumous and granular fatty matter, some of which are still adherent to its internal surface. xxxv. 15 2726. Sections of a Cyst removed from beneath the skin of an elderly woman's scalp. Its walls are tough and hard, from half a line to nearly two lines in thickness, and it is filled with irregular plates and grumous masses of a soft, cheesy, sebaceous substance. xxxv. 46 2727. Two Cysts which contained a soft white substance, partly of the con- sistence of honey, and partly disposed in flakes, like scrapings of spermaceti. The walls of the cysts are dense and strong. They are everted to show their internal surfaces, which are white and polished. xxxv lo