420 DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COVERINGS, AND THE SPERMATIC CORD. 2791. A Testicle, filled by a mass of firm substance with small cysts interspersed in it. Some of the cysts contained blood, others a gelatinous substance. xxviii. 37 2792. A Testicle, in which there is a large firm tumour, in^ parts appearing fibrous, in parts spongy, and having numerous cysts, with distinct membranous walls imbedded in its substance. In some of the larger cysts there are growths of soft substance. The opposite surfaces of the tunica vaginalis are partially adherent. xxviii. 24 2793. Section of a large Fibro-cystic Tumour in a Testicle. The tumour forms a broadly-oval mass, and is chiefly composed of a very firm, dense, and elastic, greyish-white substance, intersected by white lines, which have some appear- ance of radiating and forming close-set lobes. It has, in these respects, a close resemblance to the firmest fibro-muscular tumours of the uterus. Numerous cysts are imbedded in all parts of it. They have smooth and polished internal surfaces, and could not be dissected from the surrounding substance of the tumour. In the recent state they were filled with liquid, which in some was like serum, m some like serum mixed with pus, in some creamy, in some brown, thick and grumous. Portions of cartilage, also, in small nobules, are thinly scattered in the substance of the tumour. The tunica albuginea, extended round the tumour, is much thickened; on its internal surface a thin layer of seminal tubes was found spread out. The patient was 58 years old. He believed that the disease had been twenty years in progress, and that it commenced in inflammation of. the testicle during gonorrhoea. The testicle, after this inflammation, had remained enlarged, but no certain increase of it was noticed till ten years later. From that time the increase was constant, though slow. The patient recovered after the removal of the testicle, and for at least twelve months had no return of the disease. 2794. Section of a Testicle, in which the place of the natural structure is occupied by a large oval mass of firm fibrous substance, in which some small portions of cartilage and many cysts are imbedded. xxviii. 17 SARCOMATA. 2795. A Sarcoma of the Testicle, containing a large mass of cartilage, which is arranged in the same manner as in the Specimens Nos. 2783 and 2784. new 2796. Sections of a Testicle, occupied by a round-cell sarcoma. The growth is lobed, pale, soft, and greyish. Imbedded in its lower part, and separated from it by a thin filamentous capsule, is an oval mass of cartilage, from an inch and a half to two inches in diameter. Points of bone are scattered in the cartilage, which is arranged in tortuous columns or rods. xxviii. 62 The patient was 38 years old. The disease was observed in progress for eighteen months. Death occurred a fortnight after the removal of the disease, and secondary deposits were found in the lumbar lymphatic glands, but they contained no cartilage. A drawing, No. 481, shows the parts in the recent state. 2797. A Testicle, occupied by a soft new growth, at the lower part of which is a larsre nodule of cartilage. The constituents of the tumour had been much altered by long immersion in spirit, but it appeared to be a round-cell sarcoma. The cartilage was arranged in nodules, and consisted of small flattened nuclei, surrounded by a hyaline matrix. The connective tissue surrounding the nodules contained bands of spindle-cells. The testicle was removed after death, from a man aged 45 years. There were numerous secondary deposits in various parts of the body. Microscopic sections of the cartilage are preserved, No. 120. Presented by R. O. Clarke, Esq. MEDULLARY CANCERS. 2798. Section of a Medullary Cancer of the right Testicle. The organ measured