107 DISEASES OP JOINTS. 735. A Knee-Joint after an unsuccessful Excision. The tibia is drawn backwards behind fche femur and is placed nearly at a right angle with it. Absorption has taken place where the bones are in contact; their tissue is healthy, but there is no osseous union between them. From a boy, aged 5 years. Amputation of the thigh was performed five months after the excision.—See Sitwell Ward Book, toI. ii, p. 101. 736. The bones forming a right Knee-Joint, upon which a partial Resection was performed for disease of one year and a half's duration. The ends of the bones are covered by gelatinous granulations, and loosely connected by soft fibrous tissue, but there is no bony union. The tibia is at a right angle with the femur. A cavity, containing a sequestrum of cancellous bone as large as a hazel nut, occupies the lower extremity of the diaphysis of the femur. It communicates by a narrow sinus, which is cut across, with the space between the two bones. The wall of the femur around the cavity is thickened and sclerosed. A portion of the internal condyle only remains of the epiphysis of the femur ; that of the tibia is preserved. From a child, aged 4 years, whose thigh was amputated in the hospital thirteen months after the resection, which was performed in the country.—See Stanley Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 311. 737. A Section of the bones of a Knee on which Excision had been performed. The femur and the tibia, where they lie in contact, are firmly united by bone. A large sequestrum lies loose in a cavity in the upper end of the tibia. The patient, a lad 14 years old, and of feeble health, underwent excision of the knee-joint, which was affeoted with strumous disease of long duration. Many months after the operation the knee remained large, the skin covering it was inflamed and unhealthy, and many siuuses discharged foetid pus. Several operations for the removal of carious and necrosed portions of bone were performed from time to time. The large opening seen at the outer side of the joint was made during one of these operations, and through it the sequestrum which lies at its bottom was found, and partly gouged away. At length, as the wounds did not heal, and as the boy's general health was much reduced, amputation above the knee was performed. 738. Section of the Bones of a Knee-Joint, of which the opposite half is shown in the preceding specimen. 739. Parts removed in an operation for Excision of the Knee-Joint. In flexing the leg whilst opening the articulation, the epiphysis of the femur snapped across : the line of separation is seen in the preparation. The specimen also shows the relation of the articular surfaces modified by the backward displace- ment of the tibia. The patient, a boy aged 9 years, made a favourable recovery. FOREIGN BODIES IN JOINTS. 740. The head of a Fibula with some of the surrounding tissues. Below, firmly embedded in fat and cellular tissue, is part of a needle, about half an inch in length. The structures around are natural in appearance, and free from thick- ening or induration. III. 12G The needle had been driven, nine years before, into the front of the joint, when the patient was abovit five years old. For four years it seemed to produce no disturbance ; from that t ime onwards there was almost constantly progressive suppurating disease of the knee-joint. The patient died, after amputation, from pyaemia.