17 DISEASES OF BONES. 117. Section of the articular ends of a Femur and Tibia, and of an Astragalus, from a boy whose limb was amputated. The bones are enlarged, chiefly by the expansion of the cancellous tissue. Some of the enlarged cells are filled by healthy marrow, others by semi-fluid jelly, and some by a substance presenting all the characters of healthy cartilage. Both the knee and ankle-joints are anohylosed by adhesion of the opposite surfaces of the synovial membrane, and in the ankle-joint there is also a partial osseous union. I. 173 118. The remaining portions of the bones last described. The removal of the soft matter from the interior of the bones by maceration displays the enlarged cancellous spaces, and unusually numerous thin osseous laminae along the medullary tube. On the card marked A is the other half of the section of the shaft of the Tibia, and on that marked B, are portions of necrosed bone which were removed by the patient himself from his tibia five years before the amputation of the limb. L 174 (In Case E.) 119. Section of the lower extremity of a Femur. The cancellous tissue of the articular extremity is distinctly rarefied. From a case of strumous disease of the knee-joint in a child. 119a. Sections of a Tibia, in which the osseous part of nearly all the cancellous tissue being absorbed, there is a wide cavity extending completely through the interior of the bone. The walls of the bone are a little thicker than natural • and their texture is light and porous; the cavity probably contained purulent matter. a 91 (In Case F.) See also Series V, No. 1066, and No. 138 in this Series. INFLAMMATION OF BONE WITH CASEOUS DEGENERATION OF THE IN- lon PLAMM:AT0RY FBODUOTS (Strumous Ostitis) AND TUBERCLE IN BONE ii'i ?0rtTS °f a Sternum and Ribs- There is a large cavity in the sternum hlled with caseous material. This cavity was closed in both behind and in front reflectxT aPParen% the thickened periosteum, a part of which is now ie ec e ^ ^ 121. Section of the Head Neck, and upper part of the Shaft of the Femur of a young subject. The cells are filled throughout by caseous material. The arti- cular cartilage is sound. XQ I. oJ 12mktSPer extremitj of a Femur> showing infiltration of the bone with caseous From the collection of J. E. Farre, M.D. 123 Sections of the articular ends of the Femur and Tibia of a young subiect The compact Layer of the bones is thin and soft; the cancellous tissue is delicate and filled with caseous material. uencate I. do 124. The Bones of a Knee-Joint, exhibiting the results of Ostitis with caseons degenerat.on of the inflammatory product! In some situations lie is ulcera t on of the exterior of the diseased bone. The epiphyses are separated InTih shafts, and portions of the epiphysis of the femu/are aecrosT The artmular cartilage is m some parts absorbed. aiticulai 125. The other portion of the Femur last described. T u 126 Sections of the lower end of the Tibia and Fibula of a child. The walls of the bones are thin and soft, and the cancellous tissue of the oss flod I its epiphysis is filled with caseous material. d P0rtl0n °f I. Qff c