100 DISEASES OF JOINTS. 685. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting absorption, hardening, and polishing of the upper and anterior part, with osseous deposit around the margin, of its head.^ (In Case G.) 686. Portion of a Femur, in which the upper part of the head has been absorbed, flattened, and increased in width. Part of the surface absorbed is hard, polished, and perforated : new bone is formed on other parts. B- 20 (In Case G.) 687. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting absorption of the upper part of its head, with a considerable formation of new bone around the margin of the head and on the neck. The bone is very light. B- 13 (In Case G-.) 688. Portion of a Femur, in which the neck of the bone appears to have yielded while in a softened condition, so as to permit the head to be carried backwards nearly into contact with the posterior part of the trochanter major. The bone is light, and parts of it are brittle. B- 21 (In Case G-.) 689. Portion of a Femur, the head of which is deformed by the flattening of its upper half and the enlargement of its border: the neck, also, is shortened. b. 40 This and the two preceding specimens closely resemble each other ; it is probable that these changes were dne to rheumatism. (In Case O.) 690. A left Knee-Joint, showing the early changes of Chronic Eheumatic Arthritis. The cartilages are fibrous and in places soft and filamentous; the articular surfaces are uneven and fissured, and at the margins there is an overgrowth of cartilage producing an irregular overhanging edge with nodulated outgrowths. These changes are most marked on the femur, especially on its trochlear surface. The synovial membrane is thickened and fibrous ; there were numerous adhesions between it and the margins of the articular surfaces. Passing between the inter-condyloid notch of the femur and the spine of the tibia are numerous broad bands of adhesion, which oppose an effectual resistance to complete flexion. The patella is much thickened, especially at its lower and outer part, where it reaches the thickness of an inch and a-half. The lower end of the femur also appears thickened. The specimen was taken from a man aged 35 years, who died of chronic peritonitis, following ulcer of the stomach. None of the other articulations were affected.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. vii, p. 202. 691. A Knee-Joint, exhibiting numerous growths on its internal surface. The growths are of various sizes, nodulated, grouped, and attached, for the most part, by narrow pedicles. They are most abundant about the margins of the articular surfaces of the bones. Some of them are cartilaginous, others osseous ; and there are some which consist of fibrous tissue covered by a thin membrane, like a reflection of the synovial membrane. The heads of the bones are enlarged, their articular cartilages are removed, and the exposed surfaces are hard and polished. ll- 28 The disease had existed for more than two years with signs of chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane. There were four ounces of fluid "like train oil" in the cavity of the joint. The patient recovered completely after the amputation of the limb. Presented by Thomas Fereday, Esq. 692. Portion of a Knee-Joint, with various growths from the internal surface of its synovial membrane. Most of these growths consist of fringes of slender