176 DISEASES AND INJURIES OP MUSCLES, extravasations of blood. There is a general enlargement of the tendon within the sheath where divided, the swelling tapering gradually into the natural size and shape of the tendon. The wound of the sheath is soundly and completely closed. 1190. Hind Leg of a young rabbit killed six days after divisions of the Tendo Achillis. On removing the skin, the same appearances were observed as m the last specimen. The enlargement has been divided longitudinally. The ends of the tendon are separated about three-quarters of an inch, and the interval between them has been filled up by a gelatinous material, in which the ends of the divided tendon are embedded. The outer portion of this new material is firm and resisting, the central portion softer, and as if blood-stained. Outside the new material and around it are several small patches of ecchymosis. In minute structure the inner and softer portion appeared granular, while the outer and firmer portion was more distinctly fibrous. 1191. Leo- of a rabbit ten days after division of the tendon. The ends of the tendon are connected by firm new material, in the centre of which are one or two distinct small clots. 1192 Leg of a young rabbit killed ten days after division of the Tendo Achillis. The ends of the tendon were separated to the extent of almost an inch, Ihe o-ap has been filled by a firm tissue, with small spots of ecchymosis m the centre The new material was firm and elastic, closely united with the sheath, and blending gradually with the ends of the tendon, but easily distinguishable from the glistening and shining fibres of the latter. It was very firm, not easily torn out under the microscope, and consisted of tolerably well-tormed fibrous tissue, dark in colour, and thickly interspersed with granular cells. 1193 Leo; of a young rabbit killed ten days after division of the tendon, and iniected with carmine. The ends of the tendon are separated rather more than halt an inch Between them is an oval circumscribed clot, decolorised, but sur- rounded by the same firm new material, which is blended with and connects the ends of the tendon. In structure, this new material presents the same cha- racters as the last specimen. 1194 Leo- of a rabbit killed fourteen days after division of the Tendo Achillis. A faro-eVantity of blood has been poured out between the separated portions of the tendon, extending upwards into the substance of the muscle above. The ends of the tendon were firmly connected by new fibrous tissue outside the clot. 1195 Leo- of a very young rabbit killed thirty-four days after division of the Tendo Achillis. The tendon has so completely regained its normal size and appearance that a very slight enlargement only marks the spot where it had been divided. Just opposite this point the sheath has been turned back. REPAIR IN MAN. 1196 Parts of the Tibialis Posticus and Flexor Longus Digitorum of a child m whom the tendons of these muscles were divided a short time before death The ends of the divided tendons, retracted about two lines asunder, are united by a slender bond of new-formed material. V. 24 Presented by W. Adams, Esq. 1197 A portion of the left Tendo Achillis of a man aged 32, which was divided one month before the leg was amputated. It is perfectly united, but the line of division is distinguishable by the granular appearance of the surface. v. 6b