DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LIVER. patches of ecohymosis beneath the peritoneum, and in the superficial portion of the liver substance. They appeared to be in places certainly extravasations, m others only engorged vessels. The liver was pale and friable. There were ecchymoses on the surface of the heart, and the pericardium contained blood- stained fluid, but there were no ecchymoses in the lungs or pleuree. , From a man who died five days after amputation of the thigh for disease ot the nglit Knee- joint. The parts divided in the amputation were undermined by old suppurating sinuses, and the long saphena vein was full of dark clots. Before death the opposite limb became cedematous, and the superficial veins hard and cord-like. On post mortem examination an old broken-down clot was found at the junction of the femoral and profunda veins m the left side. OBLITERATION OF THE PORTAL VEIN. 2208. Portion of the Liver of a woman aged 48 years. Tn the hilus the gall-ducts, hepatic artery, and a great number of small tortuous veins are seen. The portal veins could nowhere be found until, on dissecting deeply in the portal fissure, two tough, narrow fibrous bands were discovered, one running right and the other left, and uniting in what was probably the remains of the portal vein. In the middle of each fibrous band there was a minute channel, ending at the liver. On tracing the branches of the portal vein within the liver towards the portal fissure, they are completely lost just at the fissure, and close to the fibrous bands described above. The hepatic veins, gall-bladder, and ducts were natural. The liver was pale, but natural. No splenic vein could be found. The hilus of the spleen was full of small varicose veins, forming a plexus, which seemed to lead, in chief part, into the coronary veins. The splenic artery was very large, tortuous, and its walls were very much thicker than natural. The spleen was very large, pale, and tough. The patient had been subject to attacks of hsematemesis for twenty years, and she died at last after a severe attack. The hsematemesis was usually preceded for some days by a sense of weight in the splenic region. The stomach is contained in Series XVII, No. 1905.—See Post Mortem Book, vol. hi, Case 160. MORBID GROWTHS, &c. MELANOTIC TUMOURS. 2209. A vertical section through the right lobe of a Liver, infiltrated with mela- notic sarcoma. The liver weighed 21 lb. 8 oz. The lower part of the section is pale, yellow, and flabby. This more natural-looking part is most sharply marked off from the part above, which is firm, of a greenish black colour, with spots of brown. The growth was secondary to a melanotic sarcoma of the eyeball, for which the globe was excised eighteen months before death, and which had not recurred locally. Secondary growths were found in the other organs of the thorax, abdomen, and in the breasts. See account of case by Dr. Wickham Legg, Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. xxix, p. 225. There is a drawing of the specimen, No. 277. 2210. Section of a Liver, in which there are several medullary tumours, variously streaked and spotted with melanotic matter. xviii. 27 2211. Section of a Liver, exhibiting numerous round and oval medullary and melanotic tumours of various sizes. The vessels of the liver were injected through the portal vein ; and the injection has passed freely into many of the tumours. xvm> 29 Presented by Richard Partridge, Esq. 2212. Sections of a Liver, in which there are numerous medullary tumours, most of which contain pigment deposited in spots or diffused through every part of thr* M , • , ,, xviii. 23 from the same patient as the specimen of melanosis of the eye ; Series XXXIII, No. 2639.