492 GENERAL PATHOLOGY. several diameters : its surface is slightly nodulated. Its texture is uniformly firm, compact, pale, with an obscurely fibrous appearance, and with many minute cysts imbedded in it, which contained a yellow fluid : it is invested by a thin capsule. With the microscope it appeared to be composed of fine fibro- cellular tissue, interwoven among minute, pale corpuscles, and containing no fat. xxxv. 44 The patient was 28 years old. He had no return of the disease. 3283. A Fibroma (false neuroma), which was removed from the sheath of the ulnar nerve. The tumour is about four inches long and two and a half broad. The surface is smooth and undulating; attached to one extremity is a partially- detached lobule. It is composed of a soft, white, homogeneous, almost semi- gelatinous substance. Microscopic examination showed a delicate fibrous tissue formed of wavy bands, containing abundant small round and spindle-shaped nuclei. The tumour was removed from the axilla of a gentleman, aged 60. It lay in a capsule con- nected with the sheath of the ulna nerve. It had been growing for nineteen years. Some numbness of the ring and little fingers existed immediately after the operation, but ultimately passed off. A microscopical specimen is preserved, No. 162. Presented by T. Smith, Esq. 3284. An anterior Crural Nerve from a Stump. The extremity of the nerve forms a hard bulbous swelling, into which the section of the nerve shows that its component fasciculi are continued. vm. 2 FIBROUS TUMOURS CONTAINING- CARTILAGE AND BONE.1 3285. Part of a fibro-cellular Tumour, removed from a thigh. A portion of this tumour is invested with a thin layer of cancellous bone, and small nodules of cartilage are placed in one of the partitions between its lobes. It appears now white, compact, and tough; but, in the recent state, looked almost gelatinous, through the quantity of greenish-yellow serous fluid infiltrated in its texture. xxxv. 72 The patient was a man, 38 years old. The tumour had been observed about five months, and lay beneath the tensor vaginae femoris, loosely connected with the surrounding parts. There was no recurrence of the disease within three years of the operation. A drawing of the tumour is preserved, No. 550. 3286. Section of a similar Tumour, removed, with the skin covering it, from the sole of a foot, with which it was connected by a comparatively narrow base. Its lobes are very distinct; it was imbedded in the subcutaneous tissue over the metatarsal bones, and some of its smaller lobes extended among the deeper- seated parts. Nodules of cartilage are set in the pliant fibro-cellular tissue of which it is composed, and which, in the recent state, was infiltrated with fluid. xxxv. 75 It was of eight years' growth, in a man 41 years old. 3287. Section of a small Tumour, of the same kind, which is completely encased in a thin layer of bone. xxxv. 74 It was removed from over the upper part of the saphena vein of a girl, and was of slow growth. MYXOMATA (Mtxo-Sarcomata). 3288. A portion of a Tumour of the Breast. The section shows a soft, glistening tissue, with occasional loculi, into which solid growths project. The tumour was found, on microscopic examination, to consist of mucous and embryonic connective tissue, containing tubules and loculi of new-formed gland tissue (myxo-adenoma).