5 DISEASES OF BONES. REPAIR AFTER NECROSIS. 25. Section of the Tibia of a Dog, exhibiting the process of reparation after a small portion of its anterior wall had been removed. The space left by the lost bone is partially filled by new matter, like granulations growing from the medulla, and new bone is formed on the surface of the shaft around it. I. 12 26. Fore Leg of a Dog, in which Necrosis of nearly the whole shaft of the Radius has been produced by destruction of the medulla. The dead shaft has been separated from the articular ends, and new bone is in progress of forma- tion around its extremities. i. 17 27. Section of the Radius and Ulna of a Dog exhibiting Necrosis of a portion of fche shaft of the former. The dead bone is completely separated, and new bono is abundantly formed around it. The cavity in which the dead bone is contained, is lined by a very thick and vascular membrane. I. 15 The necrosis was produced by the destruction of the medulla. 28. Sections of the Tibia of a Dog, exhibiting Necrosis of a small portion of the posterior wall, and deposit of new bone around the exfoliating portion. I. 16 29. The Tibia of a Dog, in which Necrosis of part of the shaft was produced by destruction of the medulla. The dead bone was separated by natural processes, and has been removed, with the exception of a small portion which is dis- tinguishable in the centre of the new osseous cylinder. The new bone presents a very irregular external surface, and is firmly united to the articular ends of the old bone. x ^43 DIFFUSE (ACUTE) PERIOSTITIS (Acute Necrosis). 30. A Clavicle, with some of the adjacent tissues. The whole length of the clavicle, with the exception of its acromial end, and its sternal epiphysis has undergone necrosis. It lies in a cavity which is lined by the separated periosteum and which was filled with bloody pus. The tissues around this cavitv are consolidated. £ 25g The patient, a delicate boy, 5 years old, fell on his shoulder. Several days afterwards he complained ot severe pap m and about the clavicle. The parts were swollen and so painful that a complete examination of them could not be made. The case was treated as one of tractured clavicle ; but in a few clays, severe inflammation of the pericardium, heart, and pleura, supervened, and the child died eleven days after receiving the injury. p^uias Presented by Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson. 31. A Femur, showing the results of Diffuse Periostitis. The periosteum was completely separated from the shaft by a largo collection of pus. i. 366 The specimen was taken from a child aged 2* years, who was admitted to the liospital with swelling of the thigh, supposed to be due to a fracture occasioned by rough usaee while nt play Ihe case was treated accordingly. The child died suddenly, immediately after bein' raised in bed, on the tenth day after admission to the hospital. g The autopsy revealed the condition of the femur described general nviwrnin «n'rt> : vi The heart is preserved in Series VII, No. 1234. See Stanley Ward Book, vol. iii, p. 388. 32. Acute Necrosis of the whole shaft of the Femur from a child Tho rim osteum has been separated from the shaft throughout the greater part of the inner aspect of the bone, and to a less extent behind and in front- to tliP IT surface it is but loosely attached : the separation extends to the lower emlhvJ* fetid pus 18 ^ Sm°0tl15 ^ Surrounded hy a large collection of Symptoms of the disease had existed about a month. The chilrl At A t pvaemia. u U1eu ot J i. 337