SEMES XXIV. DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS AND VESSELS, ENLARGEMENT OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 2277. Sections of a Lymphatic Gland removed from the groin. It is enlarged to an inch and a half in length, and nearly an inch in width. The whole of its natural texture appears to be replaced by a pale, obscurely fibrous, and very hard substance. xxi. 2 The patient, an adult, was otherwise healthy. 2278. Clusters of enlarged and indurated Lymphatic Glands (? lymphadenoma), removed from a child's neck, in which they formed a tumour extending from the ear to the clavicle, and froin the edge of the trapezius muscle to the trachea. Parts of the spinal accessory nerve and of some branches of the cervical nerves may be seen imbedded among the diseased glands. xxi 4 The child was 6 years old. The enlargement of the glands was first observed fifteen months before their removal, but did not materially increase during the first year, and did not affect the chdd's general health. The glands were removed from beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle • porhons of them lay also behind the internal jugular vein, and in contact with the pleura w*Ui, mn m operation healed ; but the child did not recover from the debility which followed it, and shortly after died with disease of the lungs. The case is related by Mr. Vincent, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xii, p. 24-7. London, 1823. ENLARGEMENT WITH CASEOUS DEGENERATION AND TUBERCLE. 2279. A Mass of Axillary Lymphatic Glands, removed from a young girl a^ed 17 years, on account of the inconvenience and pain which it caused her Numerous masses of opaque caseous material are scattered throughout its sub- stance. An mtercosto-humeral nerve, and a small artery were imbedded in the substance of the glands. 2280. Portion of an enlarged Lymphatic Gland, containing masses of firm caseous material. It was removed from the axilla of a woman, aged 28 years, and had existed four years T1,p tss^j^^*?not ^geW E&S 2 gwt Tra°hea' adhering t0 which are some enlarged and caseous bronchial The lungs were studded with miliary tubercles Tlx* r>n+;«nt a\*a „t „ the medulla oblongata, which is preserved i?^k^£^2 CaSe°US tUm°Ur in 2282. Mesenteric Glands, enlarged and filled with a soft tubercular substanrp Ihe^superzor mesentenc artery and some of its branches are imbedded among xvi, 41