DISEASES OF BONES. 23 The other half of the specimen is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons The case is described by Mr. W. Morrant Baker in the Med. Chir. Trans., vol. lx, 1877. 168. Part of the Femur of a boy 13 years old. Almost all the lower half of the siiaft has perished in its whole thickness, and was in process of separation Deep grooves have been formed between it and the adjacent living bone, on all parts of which new bone has been deposited. A- 121 The disease commenced after a blow on the knee, five weeks before the amputation of the limb. (In Case F.) 169. The left Tibia of a boy aged 8. Some weeks before death he received an injury to the limb, which was followed by acute necrosis of the shaft of the tibia. A layer of new bone extends from the lower epiphysis for some distance around the dead shaft of the bone. Acute pericarditis, probably the result of pyremia, terminated his life. 170. The shaft of a Tibia in a state of necrosis. r. 320 It was removed from a girl aged 14. She recovered from the operation. Nothing could be learned respecting her subsequent history. Presented by J. Hales, Esq. 171. A Sequestrum, consisting of the whole shaft of the right Fibula, removed from a boy aged 7, the subject of infantile paralysis of both lower extremities. The inflammation causing the necrosis followed the friction of instruments, which had been used six months before his admission to the Hospital, with the object of supporting the paralysed limbs. 172. The greater part of the shaft of a young person's Fibula, which was attacked by Necrosis, without obvious cause. Complete repair took place. L 158 173. An Os Calcis which, has undergone necrosis. 174. Sections of a Cuneiform Bone necrosed and separated; the cancellous tissue is infiltrated with pus, and the articular surfaces are superficially ulcerated. i. 246 The disease was of long standing, and the soft parts about the tarsus were the seat of numerous abscesses and fistulous passages ; but this bone alone was materially diseased. The patient, a young man, recovered after the amputation of the foot. For other Specimens of Necrosis of the Entire Shaft of a Bone, see Nos. 30 to 37, 21, 22, 26, 244, 253, 255, 256. OTHER SPECIMENS OF NECROSIS. 175. Portion of the left half of the Vei'tex of a Skull. A trephine opening into which the button has been inserted is seen anterior to the parietal eminence. A considerable portion of the parietal, with part of the squamous bone is necrosed. A distinct groove delineates the necrosed bone, both the inner and outer surfaces of which are rough and " worm-eaten." From a girl aged 17, who fell out of a second floor window, and sustained, in addition to other injuries, a deep scalp wound which laid bare the left parietal bone. A " puffy" swelling appeared about the scalp wound with symptoms of meningitis, followed by those of compression. Tre- phining was performed about three weeks after lier admission, and a small quant ily of pus was let out from beneath the dura mater. Some improvement followed the operation, but she died comatose twenty-four days afterwards. A large abscess was found occupying the left hemisphere of the brain, and communicating with the lateral ventricle.—See Stanley Ward Book, vol. v, p. 402. 176. A large portion of a Skull which exfoliated after trephining. I. 79 177. A Skull from a Lunatic. The large portion of the parietal and occipital bones comprising about a third of the whole vault of the skull, as well as the small pieces which lie around it, were exfoliated in consequence of a burn. The