211 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. From a man, aged 65 years—a drunkard—who died after amputation through the lower third of the leg for an injury. For other specimens, vide Nos. 1377, 1389, 1391, 1402, 1406, 1408, 1413, 1445, 1510, 1539, 1580, and Series I, No. 496. CLOSURE OF THE ENDS OF ARTERIES AFTER LIGATURE. 1402. Parts of a Femoral Artery and Vein from a Stump. The extremity of the artery is closed by a conical clot which extends up the vessel to the origin of the nearest branch. The base of this clot is united to the extremity of the artery. The extremity of the vein is closed by a similar but smaller clot. The coats of the artery and vein are thickened and closely united to the surrounding parts. XIII< 35 1403. Parts of a Femoral Artery and Vein from a Stump. The extremity of the artery is closed by the adhesion of its sides, bat there is no clot within it. The extremity of the vein is open, and lymph is deposited upon its internal surface. xiii. 36 1404. Parts of a Femoral Artery and Vein from a Stump. The extremities of both the artery and the vein are closed, and intimately connected with the sur- rounding tissues. Both of them also have coagula above their closed ex- tremities, xjii. 38 UNION OF DIVIDED ENDS OF ARTERIES LIGATURED IN CONTINUITY. 1405. The left common Carotid Artery, with some of its branches and the greater portion of the corresponding tonsil, from a man aged 24 years. The artery was tied at the part where it is crossed by theOmo-hyoid muscle two months before death on account of haemorrhage from the tonsil, the result of an operation. The canal is completely obliterated at the point where the artery has been tied. The outer and middle coats of the vessel, for some distance both above and below, are much thickened. The inner coat above the ligature has a natural aspect, but below it appears to have been partially destroyed. Beyond the ligature to its point of bifurcation the canal is occupied by a mottled, softening clot; below it was filled with loose shreds of fibrin, fluid blood, and dark coagula. A bristle is passed through a small aperture in the wall which com- municated with the external wound, not completely closed, and from which slight haemorrhage occurred four days before death. Twenty-four hours before death the patient became hemiplegic and comatose. In the left hemisphere several portions of the brain were softened and diffluent. No branch of unusual size could be traced into the tonsil, which presented a natural appearance. xiii. 145 1406. Portion of an Aorta with the External Iliac, Femoral, and Popliteal Arteries. There was an aneurism of the popliteal artery, on account of which the femoral was tied three weeks before death. The popliteal artery is not dilated, but it presents a large aperture in its coats, apparently the result of ulceration m the situation over which the aneurism was seated A ligature was placed around the femoral artery an inch and a half below the origin of the profunda, and had separated before death. A firm cylindrical coalulum fills the artery between the situation of the ligature and the orifice of the profunda. The divided ends of the artery are united by dense fibrous tissue, but are not closed. Between the ligature and the aperture in the poplitea artery there are several small deposits of soft yellow substance in the coats of the artery; these increase m the lower part of the artery; the whole of iU internal coat also is transversely wrinkled. xtn gj? Presented by J. G. Perry, Esq. P 2