DISK ASKS OK BOXES. 1!) adjaoent parts of the bones of the fore-arm and metacarpus : on the right side the caries is extensive, but superficial. I. 40 137. The upper part of a Femur, the surface of which is irregularly, and for the most part superficially, ulcerated. Small portions only of the external lamella) remain, and these are in many parts covered by a thin layer of new bone. The epiphyses of the great trochanter and of the head of the bone have separated. i. 221 These changes were consequent on sloughing over the great trochanter, which ensued in a prolonged case of psoas abscess in a young subject. 138. Sections of the Femur of a young subject, in which there is a Carious Cavity in the cancellous texture just above the condyles. There are irregular ulcerated apertures in the walls of the bone through which the matter passed from the cancellous texture into the surrounding soft parts. For some distance beyond the seat of the disease, deposits of new bone have taken place upon the outer surface of the femur, and the layers of the wall are separated. The whole of the bone is light, dry, fragile, and white. I. 94 139. The Lower Extremity of a Femur, exhibiting the effects of Caries, with irregular deposits of bone around and over the ulcerated surface. The walls of the shaft are thickened and spongy, and the remaining cancellous tissue is consolidated, so that their respective textures can hardly be distinguished. i. 31 140. The lower end of a Femur. The whole of the exterior of the bone is roughened by the growth of irregular plates and pointed processes of osseous substance. A large canal formed by ulceration passes obliquely through the bone from before backwards, just above the condyles, and communicates widely with a cavity occupying nearly the whole of the interior of the internal con- dyle. Around the lower part of each condyle there is a broad rim of new bone. Ihe space between the condyles on the anterior aspect of the femur is deeply ulcerated. x From a man 35 years old, who had had disease of the knee-joint for twenty-fire years. 141. The lower end of a Femur and a Patella. There is a large carious cavity between the internal condyle and the shaft, in the situation of the epiphysial <^^^Ji r*KSStraccounfc of proloHged «■ 142. Portion of a Tibia in which a large portion of the middle of the shaft has been destroyed by ulceration and necrosis extending gradually through The.remaining bone is light brittle, and porous, and there is a deposit of new bone on its surface above and below the diseased part \ 179 JZZ'&ZXtftZg — ~ *. of Presented by Edgar Barker, Esq. 143. The inner Section of the lower end of a Tibin rn-JQ„^ i vascularity and rarefaction, the result of ChronS ^^TS^STt^ distinction between the compact and cancellous tissue is lost a^d1 is enlarged by expansion and by the deposit of new bone benetth tne periosteum. Just above the internal malleolus therP is n Zt ^enedth )he leading into a cavity in the bone, largTeno^ TT? c 2