4 2 DISEASES OF BONES. 308. Portion of a Tibia with new bone formed round the middle of its shaft, and ulceration extending through part of the new bone to its surface: the effects of syphilis. a. 86 (In Case F.) 309. Portion of a Tibia with a node-like enlargement of the middle of its shaft. a. 20 (In Case F.) 310. A Tibia partially enlarged, chiefly by the formation of new bone round the middle third of its shaft. A. 4 (In Case F.) SYPHILITIC OSTITIS WITH CARIES. Tiiberculated Ulceration. 311. A Skull exhibiting the effects of syphilis. The palate, septum nasi, and the lateral boundaries of the nose, are destroyed by ulceration extending as high as the middle turbinated bone. The outer table of nearly all the upper part of the skull is tuberculated and very extensively ulcerated, and in several places the ulceration has penetrated the inner table. A. 89 (In Case F.) 312. Parts of a Tibia, Clavicle, Humerus, and Skull, from a man who died with syphilis. The shaft of the tibia is enlarged by the expansion of its walls and by external formation of new bone. In one part, the walls and the new bone covering them are penetrated by small irregular ulcers. The same disease has affected the middle of the clavicle ; and in it the ulceration has extended so far that a slight force broke the remaining portion of its shaft.. In the humerus the lower half of the shaft is thickly covered by light and porous new bone, through which many ulcers of various size have penetrated: some of these extend deeply into the original wall of the humerus, portions of which also appear to have suffered necrosis. In the skull the outer tables of the frontal and right parietal bone present an uneven tuberculated surface, seamed and starred, like the surface of confluent small blisters ; through this, numerous distinct and coalescing ulcers penetrate, and reaching the diploe spread therein in wider spaces, and in a few instances pass also through the inner table. The outer table of the left parietal bone is tuberculated but not ulcerated. There is a similar but less extensive disease on the inner table of the right parietal and occipital bones. a. 34 (In Case E.) 313. The Skull, Femur, and Bones of the right upper extremity of a man who died with syphilis. They present, in a less advanced form, similar appearances to those last described. The tuberculated character which the outer table of the skull assumes, previous to its ulceration, is shown on the upper part of the frontal bone; and the stages in the progress of the little ulcers which penetrate and spread through the new bone, may be traced on the clavicles in which the process has just begun, and on the radius and humerus on which it is more advanced; while on the femur, whose shaft like theirs is much enlarged by the formation of new bone, there are many small round and oval apertures with smooth borders, indicating that similar ulcers have been healed. a. 35 (In Case F.) Presented by William Beaumont, Esq. 314. Portion of a Skull, in which nearly the whole surface of the outer table is tuberculated and ulcerated. In the greater part of its extent the disease re- sembles that described in the two preceding specimens : but over the occipital