357 THEIR PELVES, AND THE URETERS. by a large calculus, and the consequent dilatation of the pelvis and infundibula, and absorption of its glandular substance. , xxvi. lb' 2355. A Kidney, which is much enlarged in consequence of the lodgment of a calculus at the commencement of the ureter. The infundibula are dilated, their mucous lining and the proper substance of the organ are indurated, and appear to be the seat of a purulent deposit. Portions of glass are introduced through two ulcerated apertures leading directly from the kidney to the descending colon. The portion of the colon which thus communicates with the interior of the kidney, exhibits numerous small ulcers of its mucous membrane. The capsule of the kidney, a part of which is reflected, is thickened, indurated, and consolidated with the surrounding tissues. xxvi. 5 The patient was a young man who Had suffered from attacks of pain in the loins, which were always relieved by discharge of pus from the rectum. A quantity of pus was found also to have passed from the lower part of the kidney to the back of the psoas muscle. 2356. A Kidney, with a large calculus obstructing the commencement of the ureter. Immediately below the obstruction, the ureter is completely obliterated: above it, the whole kidney is dilated into one large sac; its glandular substance appearing in some parts as a thin layer spread over the surface of the dilated infundibula. xxvi. 24 From a lady, 7-1 years old, who had been subject for thirty-two years to attacks of renal disease, w hich were complicated towards the end of life by cancer of the intestines and other parts. The dilated kidney was adherent to the front of the abdomen, and had long been felt as a painful deep-seated tumour. Presented by Thomas Davis, Esq. 2357. A large Sac caused by dilatation of the pelvis of a kidney, in consequence of the impaction of a calculus in the ureter. It formed a movable abdominal tumour, the nature of which was doubtful during life. xxvi. 38 2358. A Kidney, with a large calculus impacted in the commencement of the ureter. The kidney is much increased in size, and its substance appears indurated, and in parts, infiltrated with pus. The pelvis and infundibula are greatly dilated, and their mucous membrane is thickened, and made rough by the copious deposit of lymph and pus, or of tubercular matter, upon its surface. xxvi. 9 2359. A Kidney, having a large calculus impacted at the commencement of the ureter. The pelvis and the calices are dilated, and the excretory structure of the organ is destroyed. In the dilated pelvis was a quantity of purulent fluid. Perforating the tissues which intervened, this pus had made its way to the surface, and discharged in the loins by means of the sinus seen in the prepara- tion. The other kidney presented a natural appearance. xxvi. 34 2360. Left Kidney of a man, aged 26 years. In the ureter, about three inches from the kidney, a dark-coloured conical-shaped calculus is impacted and adherent to the inner surface of the canal. The ureter above the stone was full of pus, as was also the thickened and dilated pelvis of the kidney. The parenchyma of the organ is atrophied, but its interstitial tissue and capsule are obviously much thickened. The right kidney was greatly enlarged, the capsule rather adherent, and the cortex greatly swollen. The texture was confused, translucent, with a little opacity here and there. The pyramids were pale, feathered out, and indistinct at the bases. The bladder was natural The left ventricle of the heart was hypertrophied. Small ulcers were present m the mucous membrane of the stomach and duodenum.—Post Mortem Book vol. iii, p. 3. ' Vide Nos. 2348, and 2133 in Series XXIX.