212 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. OBLITERATION OF A PORTION OF AN ARTERY AFTER LIGATURE IN CONTINUITY. 1407. The Femoral and Popliteal Arteries, with a Popliteal Aneurism. The femoral artery was tied by the edge of the sartorius muscle eighteen months before death, and the aneurism was diminishing at the time of the patient's death. The femoral artery is completely obliterated from the situation at which the ligature was applied to the origin of the profunda. An inch and a half of the length of this part of the artery is replaced by a solid round cord of tough fibro-cellular tissue. Between the cord and the origin of the profunda is a firm, dry, rust-coloured clot of blood, filling and adhering to the coats of the artery. Below the cord is a similar clot half an inch in length, the lower end of which is continued into a milk-white thin layer, like the buffy coat of a clot of blood, which Hues the whole length of the rest of the artery down to the aneurismal sac, and is, in its course, connected with three other decolorised clots closely attached to the arterial walls. Part of this layer has been reflected : the rest was too intimately adherent to the artery to be separated without tearing it: the coats of the part of the artery which it lines appear healthy. The mouth of the aneurismal sac is very long and narrow ; both it and the whole cavity of the sac are filled by firm, dry, laminated coagulum. The walls of the sac are thick and tuberculated : they appear to have been formed by dilatation of about one-third of the circumference of a portion of the artery an inch and a half in length. xin. 114 The patient was a man between 50 and 60 years old. He died with aneurism of the arch of the aorta, and abscess of the lung. 1408. A Femoral Artery, upon which a ligature was placed a considerable time before death. The canal of the artery above and below the obliterated part is gradually contracted into a conical form as it approaches that part. The upper and lower portions of the vessel are connected by condensed fibrous tissue. For some way above and below the obliterated part, the coats of the artery are thickened, and in the upper portion a dry clot of blood is firmly adherent to the walls. ™. 23 Vide No. 1411. Obliteration of an Artery from Pressure, Vide No. 345, Series III. FORMATION OF THE COLLATERAL CIRCULATION AFTER LIGATURE, OR DIVISION OF AN ARTERY. 1409. A Thorax, with the principal Arteries injected, from a man in whom the left subclavian artery was tied on the first rib six years before death. ^ The portion of the artery between the situation of the ligature and the axilla is in No. 2562, Series XXXII. The circulation was maintained chiefly through the enlargement of the supra- and sub-scapular arteries. f. 1 (In Case D.) 1410. A Fore-arm, exhibiting the anastomosis and enlargement of Arteries con- sequent on division of the radial a little above the wrist. The principal anastomosis is effected by a large artery passing from the interosseous, at the lower edge of the pronator-quadratus muscle, across the front of the radius, to the radial artery about half an inch beyond the point of its division. f. 2 (In Case D.) 1411. A Limb in which the Femoral Artery was tied in the middle of the thigh, eleven years before death, for the cure of a popliteal aneurism. The portion of artery obliterated by the ligature is about two inches in length, and extends to the origin of the profunda. Below this obliteration the artery was found open, but contracted, to its entrance into the ham where the aneurism was situated. The injection of the vessels displays the collateral branches by which the circu-