D1SKASKS OK JOINTS. 93 633. Portion of the Synovial Membrane, with the Patella, from the Knee-Joint last described. The synovial membrane is considerably thickened, its internal surface is granulated, and portions of it, in irregular pulpy masses overlie, so that they nearly conceal, the cartilaginous surface of the patella. H. 41 Vide Nos. 617, 639, 649, 652, 653, and 655. REPAIR AFTER CARIES OF THE ARTICULAR ENDS OF BONES. 634. The bones of a Shoulder-Joint, in which the glenoid cavity and head of the humerus have been entirely removed by ulceration. The ulcerated surfaces have smoothly healed; but, probably, there was no motion at the joint. B. 31 (In Case G.) 635. A Hip-Joint, in which the head and neck of the femur have been com- pletely absorbed. The margins of the acetabulum, also, have been absorbed, and its cavity has been filled up : so that in its place there is only an oval, flat, rough surface, with which the corresponding surface of the femur remaining between the trochanters was in contact. The two surfaces were exactly adapted to each other, and covered by a substance like cartilage, so as to form a sort of joint, around which a thick capsule extended. n. 21 These changes may be regarded as the results of healing after destructive ulceration. 636. The bones of a Hip-Joint, in which there has been ulceration of the aceta- bulum and of the head and part of the neck of the femur. The ulcerated surfaces appear to have healed, and were closely adapted. The femur is adducted and extremely flexed. b. 8 (In Case Or.) Presented by Richard Partridge, Esq. 637. The bones of a Hip-Joint, in which the head and neck of the femur and the brim of the acetabulum have been destroyed by ulceration. The ulcerated surfaces have healed. The femur was not displaced: the remains of its neck appear to have rested in the acetabulum, and the trochanter minor in the foramen ovale. The bones are very slender, but their tissue appears healthy. b. 3 (In Case Or.) 638. Pelvis and Femora, from a young man. The head of the femur and the acetabulum on the left side exhibit changes consequent on long-continued disease of the hip-joint. The acetabulum is wider and shallower than is natural: and the head of the femur, deeply ulcerated, has wholly lost its natural form. The ulcerated surfaces had healed, and the bones were united by a soft tissue which permitted a slight degree of motion between them. The left os innominatum and femur, atrophied and ill-developed, probably in consequence of their disuse are considerably thinner and smaller in all their dimensions than the bones'of the opposite side ; and the left side of the pelvis is contracted by the nearly vertical position of the ilium. B ^£ (In Case Or.) Vide also the following Specimens. ANCHYLOSIS.—FIBROUS ANCHYLOSIS. 639. Section of a Knee-Joint, the articular surfaces of which are united by false membrane and bone. The patella is united to the inferior part of the outer condyle of the femur, and their respective cancellous tissues have coalesced The tibia and fibula are drawn backwards under the femur. The external lateral ligament is changed in its direction and elongated. . n 20 The other section of the joint is preserved in No. 656 Vide Nos. 629, 631. OSSEOUS ANCHYLOSIS. 640. A Scapula and a Humerus united by bone. The head of the humerus has