416 DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COVERINGS, AND THE SPERMATIC CORD. 2762. A Testicle and Spermatic Cord. In the centre of the testicle there is an irregularly circumscribed abscess, from which a fistulous passage (into which a portion of glass is introduced), extends through the tunics of the testicle and scrotum. The substance of the testicle around the abscess is indurated. xxviii. 45 2763. A Testicle, removed from a man, aged 52 years. It had been enlarged for nine years. The bulk of its substance has disappeai'ed; its place being supplied by a dense, firm, though friable mass of fibrous tissue. The tunica vaginalis has been converted into a thick-walled cyst, the interior of which was covered with rough lymph, and apparently old blood-clots. Above the mass was a smaller, though similar cyst. PROTRUSION OF THE TESTICLE THROUGH ITS ULCERATED COVER- INGS (Fungus Testis). 2764. A Testicle, with a portion of the Scrotum. The testicle, and a mass of soft fungous, and vascular granulations from its anterior surface, are protruded through an ulcerated aperture in the scrotum. What remains of the natural structure of the testicle is imbedded in the back part of the protruded mass. xxviii. 21 2765. A Testicle, with a portion of the Scrotum. The testicle, covered on its anterior part by a layer of granulations, is protruded through an ulcerated aperture in its tunics, and the scrotum. A section of the protruded testicle shows that its glandular tissue is but little altered; but the epididymis appears indurated and consolidated with the adjacent tissues. xxviii. 27 2766. A Testicle, with a portion of the Scrotum. The testicle, enlarged, in- durated, and exhibiting appearances of caseous material deposited in it, is pro- truded through an ulcerated aperture in its tunics and the scrotum. The protruded surface is thinly covered by granulations; the posterior part appears healthy. xxviii. 35 2767. A Testicle affected with strumous disease. Large fungous granulations project through the scrotum. xxviii. 64 2768. A similar specimen. xxviii. 65 2769. A Testicle, from a child, 7 years old, enlarged and indurated. It is pro- truded through an ulcerated opening in its tunics and the scrotum. The pro- truded surface is covered by granulations. xxviii. 39 2770. Portion of a Testicle, apparently unaltered in structure, but covered by granulations, which protruded through an ulcerated aperture in its tunics and the scrotum ; it was removed by operation. xxviii. 29 Vide No. 2781. SYPHILITIC DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE. 2771. A left Testicle injected. The surface of the anterior and lower part of the testicle is irregular and nodular, and the black discoloured patch formed the base of a serpiginous ulcer of the scrotum, through which the testicle slightly protruded. The organ is occupied by large yellowish-white nodules or gummata, of a tough, fibrous, non-vascular material. Two of the smaller gum- mata are distinct, the remainder have coalesced into a mass, which occupies the anterior portion of the organ. A loose fibroid tissue, which is very vascular and of a pink colour, due to the injection, surrounds and separates the nodules. The epididymis is lost in the general substance of the testicle. The disease was probably syphilitic ; microscopic examination showed that the nodules consisted of a firm, indistinct, fibroid tissue, in which no trace of the tubuli seminiferi could be found. Towards the edge of the nodules the