CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. 566 patient could grasp with considerable force, and was still gaining strength in the joint. From a sailor, aged 35 years, who had always had excellent health. Two years before applying at the Hospital his wrist became swollen and painful; but he continued at his work till six months Lit er, when he fell, doubling the wrist beneath him. The accident was followed by great pain in the part with much swelling and redness of the integuments. Suppuration soon ensued, and was succeeded by gradual displacement of the carpus and hand forwards and outwards. The sinuses which formed discharged freely for some months, and then closed. When last seen, he was again working as a sailor. There were several sinus-scars about the joint. 46. Cast of the Bones of a Hip-Joint. The head of the femur, long before death, was dislocated into the obturator foramen, and now projects, with a consider- able prominence, into the cavity of the pelvis. 46a. Spontaneous Dislocation of both Femora from disease. The cast was taken from a child, aged 4 years ; the thighs were usually flexed on the abdomen, and the legs on the thighs, but there was free movement at the hip-joints short of extreme flexion and extension. The pelvis was widened and the nates flattened. On making an examination under chloroform, the femora were found to be dislocated upwards and back- wards. On making extension the heads of the femora returned to their sockets, but regained their former abnormal position on relaxing the extension. The child began to walk at the usual time, and nothing abnormal was observed about the hip-joints. Four months before his admission to the Hospital symptoms of inflammation appeared in the left hip, a few days after he had been placed astride a horse for a few minutes, and 2\ months later the right hip became similarly affected. The case is related by Mr. W. Morrant Baker in the St. Bartholomew''s Hospital Reports, vol. x, p. 287. 47. Cast of a case of Congenital Dislocation of both Femora, taken from a man, aged 24 years. The cast was taken with the patient in the recumbent posture. 48. Cast of a right Knee, with the patella dislocated outwards, its inner margin being directed straight forwards. The cast was made very shortly after the injury. Presented by T. Blizard Curling, Esq. 49. Cast of a right Knee, with the patella dislocated on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur. The dislocation had long existed. The parts are in Series IV, No. 1051. 50. Cast of a Knee, in which it was presumed that displacement of the internal semilunar cartilage had been produced by external violence. Over the situation of the cartilage there is a deep crescentic depression of the integuments. The patient was knocked down, and fell with his left leg bent under him ; and from that instant was unable to bear weight on the limb. In examining the limb, whilst the knee was bent to its utmost, a sudden crack was heard, the depression of the integuments on the inner side of the joint disappeared, and the mobility of the joint was restored. 51. Cast of the inner surface of the left Knee-Joint of a man, aged 48 years. The Tibia and Fibula were dislocated outwards with the Patella, which was partially rotated inwards. The prominence on the inside is the internal condyle of the Femur. The prominence in front is the Patella, with the outer edge turned forward. 52. Cast of a right Knee, with dislocation of the tibia and fibula inwards. Presented by Martin Coates, Esq. 53. Cast of a right Knee. The tibia is not only dislocated backwards and out- wards, but is drawn upwards to such an extent that the outer condyle of the