414 DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COVERINGS, AND THE SPERMATIC CORD. 2745. A Testicle and Tunica Vaginalis. The tunica vaginalis, laid open by a section carried through the testicle from behind, is thickened and enlarged. Its cavity was filled with fluid blood; and irregular masses of solid blood- stained fibrinous substance adhere to its internal surface. The testicle appears healthy. xxviii. 44 2746. A Testicle and Tunica Vaginalis from a case of Hematocele. The tunica vaginalis is much thickened and numerous ulcers, most of them small and " punched out," are thickly scattered over both the visceral and parietal surfaces. An ulcer of considerable extent is seen at the inferior extremity of the testis. The tunica vaginalis was filled with grumous sanguineous fluid. No trace of tubercle was found at the base of the ulcers on examination with the microscope. Removed from a man, aged 31 years. Ten days before his admission to the Hospital his left testicle became suddenly tender, and increased rapidly in size ; it had been more or less swollen for two years. On admission, the scrotal tumour was as large as a cricket ball, semi- fluctuating, and not translucent.—See Henry Ward Book, vol. vii, p. 114. 2747. A Testicle, with its Tunica Vaginalis enlarged, thickened, indurated, consolidated with the smrounding tissues, and having a soft and dark sub- stance, probably altered blood, adhering to its internal surface. The testicle is healthy. xxviii. 1 2748. Portion of a Tunica Vaginalis, from a Ha3raatocele. It is thickened and indurated, so as to appear almost cartilaginous in texture, and its internal surface is unevenly tubercnlated. xxviii. 46 EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION OF THE TUNICA VAGINALIS. a. Adhesion of the two layers. 2749. Sections of a Testicle, with the cavity of the tunica vaginalis obliterated by layers of false membrane a third of an inch in thickness, and very tough and compact. At the posterior part, by the side of the epididymis, earthy matter has been deposited in the midst of the new tissue. The substance of the testicle is soft, but not otherwise diseased ; it is of natural size, but the epididymis is enlarged and indurated. All the tissues around the tunica vaginalis appeared thickened, adherent, and hard, and, together with the thick layer of false membrane, gave the characters of a considerable enlargement of the testicle itself. xxviii. 56 The other testicle was similarly affected, but to a slighter extent. 2750. A Testicle, showing complete adhesion of the layers of the tunica vaginalis to each other. 2751. Two Testicles. Upon the upper part of each there is a cyst of globular form, which was filled by a watery fluid. It is probable that this cyst was formed between the layers of the tunica vaginalis, which, in the rest of their extent, are adherent. The structure of the testicles themselves is healthy. xxviii. 52 For other Specimens of Adhesion of the Layers of the Tunica Vaginalis, vide Nos. 2760, 2814, 2816. b. Suppuration in the Cavity of the Tunica Vaginalis. 2752. A Tunica Vaginalis greatly enlarged, tough, and thickened to the extent of one to three lines; its internal surface is very vascular ; and its cavity was filled with pus. The testicle is enlarged and indurated. xxviii. 8 2753. A Testicle and Tunica "Vaginalis laid open. The cavity of the tunica vaginalis, which had probably been the seat of an old haematocele, was found filled with pus. The tunica vaginalis is dense and thickened by layers of