SERIES XXIX DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE URINARY BLADDER. HYPERTROPHY. 2395. The Bladder of a child, in which the muscular coat is exceedingly hyper- trophied. Its other tissues appear healthy. The child was 4 years old, and suffered intensely with signs of stone in the bladder : but no stone existed, nor was any disease found in the urethra or other part of the urinary organs. 2396. A Bladder, the coats of which are much thickened and indurated in con- sequence of the lodgment of a calculus in its cavity. The muscular coat is in some parts nearly half an inch thick; and the mucous membrane forms a tough white layer, from one to three lines in thickness, and raised in prominent folds in the cavity of the contracted bladder. The incision in the neck of the bladder was made in the performance of lithotomy. xxvn. 11 Presented by Charles Mayo, Esq. Vide Specimens Nos. 2419, 2431, 2433, 2442, in this Series : 2370 in Series XXVIII, and No. 3215 in Series L. DILATATION OF THE BLADDER. Vide Specimens Nos. 2399, 2408, and 2833. PARTIAL DILATATION, OR SACCULATION. a. Of all the Coats. 2397. A Bladder, with an enlarged Prostate Gland. The bladder is much thickened ; its coats are indurated and consolidated; and its mucous membrane is in several parts incrusted with an irregular deposit of mucus mixed with calculous matter. At the upper and back part, immediately above the orifice of the left ureter, a portion of the bladder is distended into a sac of considerable size, of which the walls are thinner than those of the rest of the bladder, although all the coats appear to be comprised in the dilatation. xxvn. 32 239f. A Bladder, with part of tlie Urethra of a man on whom the operation of litliotrity was performed. There were two calculi in the bladder- one of moderate size, which was broken by the instrument; the other, of larger size was not detected by the instrument, being lodged in a deep recess formed by the dilatation of all the coats of the bladder at its lower and back part immediately behind the prostate gland. XXVI{_ 3q The calculi are in Series LII. b. Of the Internal Coat (a Hernia of the Mucous Membrane between the Muscular Fasciculi). 2399. Sections of a dried Bladder, of very large size, and with numerous cysts