DISEASES OF BONES. 64 The patient was a lad 18 years old. The tumour had been observed gradually increasing, without pain, for eight months, and projected into the mouth through one of the alveoli lhe portion of the jaw that was removed included the first true molar tooth on the left side, and the first bicuspid on tne right, all the intermediate teeth being in their places. The patient remained well for more than four years after the operation. 458 Section of the forepart of an Upper Jaw, with a tumour having the same general and microscopic characters as that last described. The tumour seated within and above the alveolar part of the jaw has separated and extended, m its growth, the anterior and the palatine walls of the bone, which form a kind of bony investment to it. L The patient was a girl 20 years old, of healthy appearance. The tumour had been observed as a projection in the left nostril, ten weeks before it was removed. Presented by Benjamin Barrow, Esq. 459 Portion of an Upper Jaw, including nearly the whole of its front wall, extended over a laro-e tumour, which presented the same general and microscopic struc- tures as the two preceding, except in that its substance had almost uniformly the colour of voluntary muscle. Nearly the whole of this colour was quickly discharged as if by bleaching, when the tumour was immersed m alcohol it now presents a uniform pale colour, and a firm, compact substance, m which portions of cancellous bony tissue are irregularly scattered. I. tf& The patient was 22 years old. Growths, like common epulis had been thrice removed from her right upper jaw before the growth of this tumour was observed The last of the three growths exSnded through an alveolus into the cavity of the antrum, which it nearly filled. All, howTver appeared to be removed, and the wounds of the operation healed soundly Nine welk^afterwards, this tumour in the right upper jaw-bone was observed expanding it in all toec ionT It regularly increased, and about two months later a similar tumour appeared in the left upper law-bone also. Both tumours grew rather quickly. Six months after the appearance of the first of them, the greater part of the jaw-bone was cut away anSn' the part here preserved), and the rest of the tumour, which appeared to fictile whole interior of the jaw-bone was removed piecemeal. The wound healed soundly, Jnd urin-the nine months following the operation no reproduction of the growth had taken Xce the tumour in the left upper jaw-bone had somewhat diminished and become harder, and two small swellings which had long existed on one of the parietal bones, disappeared. 460 Sections of a Tumour with the portion of the Lower Jaw in which it origi- Wed • removed by operation. The portion of the jaw taken away includes one Srle of it from the angle to within a short distance of the symphysis. Part of the mucous membrane of the mouth, unaltered m structure, is extended over the tumour The tumour, originating in the cancellous^ texture of the jaw is surrounded by a thin shell of bone, formed by the remains of the walls of the iaw The tumour consists of a solid and very compact fibrous substance of a greyish colour, irregularly intersected by white fibres. I. 148 • ^scopT^ showed the tumour to be a spindle-cell sarcoma, containing many myeloid cells. , See microscopic specimen, JNo. Z8. zifil The front of the Lower Jaw of a child, which was removed by operation, on account of a tumour arising in the cancellous texture of the bone and thence rfrotrudino- into the mouth. In the progress of the operation, the front of the faw separated into an upper and a lower portion. With the upper portion there tZ r>art of the tumour, which was lodged m a cavity of the bone formed by the n Wntion of its cancellous texture and by the separation of its anterior and osterior walls The tumour consists throughout oi a red and fleshy mass, resembling a piece of lacerated spleen. L 23 Microscopic examination showed the tumour to be a spindle-cell sarcoma, containing many myeloid cells. See microscopic specimen, JNo.