568 CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND BURS^E. 66. Cast of a Hand with a contracted Finger, following inflammation and sup- puration of the theca. 67. Cast of the lower part of the Leg and Foot of a man, from whom the tendo Achillis had been shot away. 68. Cast of a Fore-arm and Hand, with a Swelling produced by accumulation of fluid in the synovial sheaths of the flexor tendons of the fingers. The iri'egularity of the swelling was due to the resistance of the annular ligament and the palmar fascia, under which the distended sheaths were placed. 69. Cast of a woman's Shoulder, with a large Swelling which appeared to be due to accumulation of fluid in the bursa under the deltoid muscle. The swelling is prominent over all the articulation, but especially in front of, and behind, the deltoid. 70. Cast of a Knee, with a great enlargement of the bursa over the patella. 71. Cast of a Knee, with a similar but less uniform enlargement of the bursa, producing a bi-lobed swelling over all the front of the joint. 72. A Hand, with club-shaped fingers, from a case of phthisis. 73. Cast of the right Lower Extremity of a boy. The knee is contracted, and the tibia displaced backwards and rotated outwards; the leg was immovably fixed in this position. The foot was unnaturally movable at the ankle, and in a position of talipes valgus. The other limb was similarly affected. When about nine months old he received an injury to his back, and the lower extremities became paralysed. When admitted to the Hospital sensation was not impaired, and he had eome slight power of moving the thighs. 74. Casts of the Lower Extremities : the left leg is affected with srenu valgum; the right with complemental varum. Erom a boy, aged 16 years, who was under treatment in the Hospital. 75. A Cast taken from the same patient after six months' treatment by splints. For a further account of the case see Lancet, November 16th, 1872, p. 702. Presented by Luther Holden, Esq. 75a. Congenital Talipes Varus. 76. Congenital Talipes Varus in an advanced stage. 77. Casts of two Feet presenting an extreme degree of Talipes Varus. The prominence on the outer side of each foot is produced by the projection of the cuboid bone covered by cornified skin, on which the patient rested his weight in walking. 78. Cast of the Leg and Foot of a child affected with Talipes Equino-Varus. 79. 80. Casts of the Leg and Foot of an adult. No. 79 shows an extreme degree of the deformity named Talipes Equino-Varus. The heel is raised; the sole of the foot is turned directly inwards; its arch is very short and deep, and parts of its outer margin are covered with a large bursa, where it rested on the ground. No. 80 shows the restored shape of the foot after treatment, which iucluded subcutaneous division of the tendo Achillis, and of the tendons