DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 236 the vessel being pervious throughout. The aneurism had burst on its anterior surface. From a man, aged 30 years, who died from secondary haemorrhage a week after ligature of the femoral artery. 1544. A Popliteal Artery, with part of a large Aneurismal Sac. The upper portion of the artery is pervious to its termination in the sac, into which it opens by a smooth round orifice. The lower portion of the vessel is also pervious, and communicates with the sac by an opening of considerable length. The upper portion of the popliteal vein is obliterated; the lower part is pervious. xm. 53 1545. Portion of a Popliteal Artery laid open, showing a circular ulcer, with soft and uneven margins, between two and three lines in diameter, which has perforated its walls. For some distance above, and to a less extent below, the coats of the vessel are thickened by earthy deposit. xni. 143 It was removed from a man, aged 33, who was admitted into the Hospital with a large aneurismal tuniour immediately below the popliteal space. He had discovered it five weeks previously, and it was then nearly as large as when he was admitted. The femoral artery was tied in the usual place. The ligature separated on the tenth day, and the man left the Hospital six weeks afterwards with the wound nearly healed. Three weeks after he had returned home profuse haemorrhage occurred from the wound, then almost closed. This subsequently recurred, and the patient died. In the post mortem examination it was shown that the haemorrhage proceeded from the upper end of the artery, where it had been tied (see the following preparation). This had separated from the lower end, and contained only a small coagulum. It was obviously patent. The large mass below consists of blood-clot, and the surrounding tissues. The aneurism had no other sac. Immediately above the ulcer there was a small coagulum. 1546. The portion of the Femoral Artery referred to in the description of the preceding preparation. xiii. 144 Vide Nos. 1407, 1453, 1460, 1461, 1552. Aneurism of posterior tibial, vide No. 1463. SPECIMENS ILLUSTRATING THE MODE OF CURE OF ANEURISM. SPONTANEOUS CURE. 1547. The Arch of an Aorta, with the Subclavian and Carotid Arteries. The right subclavian artery exhibits the remains of an aneurism which has been spontaneously cured. The aneurism appears to have been formed by dilatation of the whole circumference of a portion of the artery about two inches long. On each side of the aneurism the artery is contracted and completely closed: above the aneurism its walls appear to have coalesced; below the aneurism its cavity is filled by fibrin to the extent of nearly an inch. The inner coat of the aorta and its branches is thickened, and there are deposits of soft substance beneath it. xm. 75 By Deposit of Laminated Fibrin. 1548. Sections of an Aneurismal Sac, which was situated on the Abdominal Aorta immediately below the superior mesenteric artery. The coeliac and superior mesenteric arteries are obliterated at their origins. The sac is com- pletely filled by firm laminated coagulum. The coats of the aorta are thickened and opaque. XIIL 7 From a man, aged 45 years, who died from rupture of the dilated aorta in No. 1484. 1549. A Heart and Large Vessels. There are large vegetations on the aortic valves and the aorta is atheromatous. The second part of the right subclavian