67 DISEASES OF BONES. 470. The upper third of a Tibia divided vertically. Projecting upon its inner aspect is a considerable tumour, covered by thickened periosteum. The growth extends half-way across the head of the bone, taking the place of its osseous tissue. Above, it reaches to, but does not involve, the articular cartilage. Below, it extends on the outer side of the bone, between the compact wall and the periosteum. The cancellous tissue around is condensed. The tumour is composed of a firm, tough material, of a dull grey colour, traversed by numerous blood-vessels. It is formed, chiefly, of cells having the character of those observed in malignant growths, mingled with others of the myeloid variety. During life it was distinctly pulsating. I. 306 The patient, a girl aged 17, had undergone the operation for tying the femoral artery. Subsequently there was profuse haemorrhage from the wound. Death resulted from the in- tercurrenee, during convalescence, of an attack of continued fever. The progress of the disease was in no way affected by the ligature of the artery. The case is related in the Hospital Reports, vol. vi, p. 381. 471. Section of the upper part of a Tibia, within the head of which a nearly spherical tumour, about four inches in diameter, has grown. The greater part of the substance of the bone has been absorbed during the growth of the tumour, round which its remains are extended in a thin wall of bone and periosteum. The articular surface is unchanged, but nearly all the layer of bone beneath the cartilage is absorbed. The chief part of the tumour consists of close-set, thin- walled cysts, the cavities of which were filled with bloody fluid. Other parts, around and between the cysts, consist of soft, opaque-white, brownish and yellow substance variously tinged with blood. A few bands and thin plates of bone traverse the space thus filled with cysts and solid growth. The upper parb of the shaft of the tibia appears healthy, which is immediately below the part extended round the g'rowth. The microscopic structures in the solid parts of the tumour, and in the walls of many of the cysts were chiefly many-nucleated cells, and spindle cells, like those characteristic of myeloid or fibro-plastic tumours. I. 298 The patient was a woman 24 years old. The first sigu of the disease was severe pain in the head of the tibia. This was observed eighteen months before the removal of the limb, and after it had existed ten months a swelling appeared, which regularly increased; the paiu rather diminished, but the limb became constantly more feeble and unable to support the bodv. Recovery followed amputation. 472. Section of the lower part of a Tibia and of a Tumour contained within it. The tumour consists of a brain-like substance, with blotches of blood effused in it, and is almost completely surrounded by a thick osseous lamina which is con- tinuous with the wall of the tibia. It may be presumed that the morbid deposit commenced in the interior of the bone, and that, as it grew, so also the bone grew around it, with internal absorption and external deposit of new bone, and thus formed the osseous wall. The arteries of the limb are injected; some of their branches pass through the morbid growth. \, 159 The microscopic characters of the tumour are those of a myeloid sarcoma. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 35 ; and a drawing, a. 10. 473. The other half of the Tibia and of the Tumour last described. A portion of skin is here left, in which there is ulceration with a fungous growth orio-inatino- m the morbid structure. The cavity immediately above the cartilage of the ankle-joint was filled by soft medullary substance. ° l 160 The Hmb was amputated by Mr. Hey, of Leeds. This and the preceding specimen were presented by Joseph Swan, Esq. Vide Nos. 3312, 3313, Series L. CALCIFYING OR OSSIFYING SARCOMATA. (Osteo-Sarcomata, Osteoid Tumours ) 474. A section of the lower half of a Femur, and of an Osteoid Tumour (osteo-