509 CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED OR INJURED PARTS. of the tibialis posticus, and flexor longus digitorum muscles; also the plantar fascia. 81, 82. Similar Casts of a case of Talipes Equino-Varus, before and after treat- ment, including- subcutaneous division of the tendo Achillis, the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle, and of the plantar fascia. The patient was a girl, 12 years old. After the restoration of the shape of the foot the whole liinb became larger. 83. Cast of a left Leg and Foot affected with an extreme degree of Talipes Equino-Varus, from a boy aged 11 years. Owing to the extreme rigidity of the foot all attempts to remedy the deformity by instruments were useless. 84. A Cast of the right Leg and Foot of the same patient similarly deformed, but in a slighter degree. 85. A Cast of the left Foot of the same patient, from whom the two preceding casts were taken, after the performance of the following operation. A wedge- shaped mass, with the base outwards, was removed from the tarsus, including the anterior portion of the cuboid, the bases of the outer three or four meta-tarsal bones and the external and middle cuneiform bones. The internal cuneiform was sawn through. The calcaneo-cuboid and astragalo-scaphoid articulations were thus left undistui'bed. The wound healed in three months. Before the operation the heel was raised one inch and a half above a plane on which the toes rested; after it, the foot could be placed flat on the ground. See Pitcaim Ward Book, vol. v, p. 161. This and the two preceding Specimens were presented by A. Willett, Esq. 86. Cast of a similar case of Talipes Varus. 87. Cast of the Pelvis and Lower Extremities of a girl, aged 8 years, the subject of severe Talipes Equinus of both feet, with contraction of the knees and general distortion of the lower limbs from spasmodic contraction of the muscles. 88. 89. Casts of the Leg and Foot of a child 4 years old. No. 88 shows the deformity named Talipes Equinus, which had, in this case, existed for two years. No. 89 shows the restored shape of the parts a month after subcu- taneous division of the tendo Achillis, and other appropriate treatment. Presented by Joseph W. Square, Esq. 90. Casts of the Feet of a young man, both showing an extreme degree of flat- foot. 91. A similar Specimen. Presented by A. Willett, Esq. 92. Cast of the Foot of a child affected with congenital flat-foot. 93. Cast of a Foot, deformed with eversion and flatness of the sole: a slight degree of Talipes Valgus. 94. Cast of a Foot affected with Talipes Cavus, the sole being greatly and unnaturally arched. 95. Two Feet similarly deformed, but in a slighter degree. The toes, especially the great toe, are drawn upwards by the tension of the extensor tendons. 96. Casts of the Feet of a boy, both presenting precisely similar appearances They are m a position of Talipes Equinus, and in addition the great toes are