CICATRICIAL CONTRACTION OF MOUTH. 82 all three cases incisions were made on either side, so as to widen the mouth; the mucous membrane was then united with the cheek, so as to cover over the raw edges, and the patients eventually were able to open their mouths to a fair extent. F. S—, set. 43, had had for four years disease of the mouth, iu consequence of which the inner surface of the left cheek had become firmly united to the upper and lower jaws. The patient was scarcely able to separate his teeth, and could only take fluid food. He had previously been treated by the introduc- tion of wooden wedges and incisions through the cicatrices; neither of these proceedings had, however, done him any good. As it was found impossible to open the mouth any wider by Heister’s speculum, a portion of the jaw, a third of an inch iu breadth, corresponding to the left lower canine tooth, was cut out, in order to form a pseudarthrosis. The parts healed up well, but the resulting cicatrix was so firm that when the patient was discharged after two months’ treatment, the incisor teeth could only be separated apart to the extent of a quarter of an inch. The patient was a semi-idiotic individual, and could not be induced to use for himself any mechanical devices for dilating the mouth ; still less would he submit to a more extensive resection, which was thought necessary in order to enable him to open his mouth wider. The con- dition, therefore, of the patient on his discharge was highly unsatisfactory. Two years later he came back to the hospital on account of a whitlow. The final result of the operation above described was then seen to be very satisfac- tory. The patient could open his mouth wide enough to admit the thumb. The right side of the jaw, in front of the resected part, was displaced rather to the left, while the left half of the jaw had somewhat atrophied. The move- ment in the pseudarthrosis was not extensive, but was sufficient to allow him to masticate solid food. A. S—, set. 5. For about a year the extent to which she could open her mouth had been constantly diminishing. When admitted she could not sepa- rate the teeth from each other more than two lines. The parents were unable to give any reason for this condition. On examination, the anterior border of the right masseter muscle was felt to be very tense. This was cut through, and she was then treated by the introduction of wooden wedges. Rapid and complete recovery followed. Hctropium. J. H—, ret. 14, was admitted with complete ectropium of the upper lid, which had resulted from ulceration of the eyelids, and caries of the lower sur- face of the nasal bones. A sound could be passed right under the nasal bones from one side to the other. The conjunctiva of the lids was turned upwards and much swollen and red. Both cornea; were almost entirely devoid of cover- ing and somewhat infiltrated, and the ocular conjunctiva highly vascular. When admitted, ulceration of the right cornea existed, which, iu spite of Pro- fessor Arlt’s careful treatment, could not be checked, and prolapse of the iris followed. Finally, the inflammation ceased, but the vision of the right eye