187 TUMOURS OP SPINE. LATERAL CURVATURE. not altered. The patient can now breathe and swallow without difficulty; in other respects his general condition is unaltered; the guttural tone of voice exists as before/-’ Eemembering my former experience, I did not venture to make a fresh incision, or to employ galvano-puncture. The haemorrhage was so formidable that even the most intrepid surgeon would not readily have forgotten it. Tumours. I have met with no cases of primary tumours in the vertebral column, and my only acquaintance with them is derived from museums and atlases. Metastatic cancer of the spine, following cancer of the breast, I have seen tolerably often. I hardly know any more terrible disease than this. The last cases which I had occasion to see very often, occurred in young, well-nourished women about thirty years of age. These patients suffered for five or six months most unspeakable agony before death came to their relief. In the face of such diseases one is compelled to look almost leniently on suicide. I remember once, after a consultation with one of my colleagues on one of these unfortunate cases, he remarked to me as we were going down stairs, “ Should we not be almost justified in prescribing cyanide of potassium in such a case ? ” But a saying of Griesinger’s rose before my mind, “ The surgeon should not give up his patient until he has drawn his last breath.” Lateral Curvature. My experience does not enable me to say much about the treat- ment of lateral curvature. I generally advise the remedies recom- mended by the best authors. These patients were never admitted into the hospital; the slighter cases would not remain in, and in the severe cases so little could be promised that we did not feel justified in burdening the parish with the expense of keeping them for some years in the hospital. The out-patient department sufficed for purposes of clinical demonstration. It is an unfortunate thing, from an educational point of view, that so few opportunities could be afforded of studying the treatment of these cases, or of seeing the ultimate results of this very common affection. This want is often