4 ANTISEPTICS ’ AND STATISTICS. 472 dwelling-houses, most suitable for these cases), and finally in the large city hospitals (the so-called “ Mordhohlcn ” for wounds and operation cases). Simpson himself contributed not a little towards directing the attention of surgeons again to the importance of the treatment of the wound, when he introduced acupressure as a material aid to healing by first intention. Since acupressure was best adapted to the open treatment of wounds, both methods came into vogue together. Then followed the occlusion dressings, originating from the theories of the favourable healing of subcutaneous wounds. My readers will have seen how rivalry has sprung up between these older methods and that now so extensively adopted through to Gudrin, Lister, and Volkmann. Now we are at another extreme, and it is the fashion simply to deny that the hospital or locality in which the amputation case is placed, exercises any effect, and to repudiate any subjective influence of the sick or injured person on the healing, provided only the wound be protected with a good Lister’s dressing. Consequently statistics of amputation are produced, in which the open treatment of wounds or the antiseptic occlusion dressing serve as the basis for the tables, and the other circumstances are only incidentally referred to. Since, in the comparative short period of about twenty-five years, I have experienced myself all these metamorphoses of amputation statistics which I have by no means over-coloured or exaggerated, the reader will readly understand that I can scarcely persuade myself that we are in a condition now from which we shall not alter. Hitherto, we have always progressed, notwithstanding our temporary partialities, and now that we find ourselves again with this one partiality, we may hope that it will not be the last. It would not astonish me if we were to obtain better results by simpler methods, or perhaps adopt principles entirely opposed to those of 4he present day. There are many advantages in the new mode of tabulating amputations, which Volkmann brought before the Surgical Congress in 1877; it is especially adapted to show the excellent working of the antiseptic method—a method practised by Volkmann himself in so admirable a manner—and appears also to me, not only to give a good idea at a glance, but also to be very practical in general. The principal features of Volkmann’s arrangement I have adopted