CASE OF NEURO-FIBROMA “ CYLINDROMA.” 95 toured nerve fibres could distinctly be recognised. The cords were embedded in, and loosely connected to, cellular tissue containing a quantity of fat. I would have specially remarked that the tumour at the time of the operation was not painful, and had not previously caused any pain, had not this fact been frequently noticed in cases of neuroma. Neuro-fibroma. The patient was a girl, set. 15. From an early age it had been observed that the right temporal region was rather thicker than the left. The swelling had increased very slowly since its commencement. When admitted, the right temporal region, the outer part of the right upper eyelid, and the upper part of the right cheek were somewhat swollen. The skin of the part was normal in appearance, and the swelling painless. The right eyeball was natural and its movements were not interfered with. The swollen part felt somewhat like a fibroma molluscum, and several hard nodules existed, which were tender on pressure. We diagnosed a plexiform neuro-fibroma, probably of congenital origin, as in most of the cases where this part of the body is affected. The growth was removed by two operations at an interval of sixteen days. Recovery followed, and the disfigurement was completely remedied. The neuro-fibromata were embedded in a soft, lobulated fatty tissue. The following case, in which a cylindroma,1 the nature of which was clearly established by microscopical examination, had not recurred three years after removal, is of such rarity that it deserves to be recorded. A. Y—, set. 45, had suffered for two years from severe neuralgic pains in the right temporal and supra-orbital regions. Four months previously the exist- ence of a tumour in the right orbit had been established. Vision was not interfered with; the eyeball was not markedly displaced, nor was the upper lid pushed forward. An incision was made through the upper lid, parallel with the supra-orbital edge. The connections of the tumour to the other contents of the orbit were severed with the scissors, and the growth was then separated away from the orbital roof by means of the raspatory. On the removal of the anterior part of the hard, nodulated tumour, the growth was found to extend back behind the eyeball. This was then removed and the rest of the growth extirpated. Three years later we heard that the woman was in good health and free from recurrence, but that still, from time to time, slight sup- puration occurred from the back of the orbit. This might very probably have arisen from some small sequestrum. 1 Of. the author * Surg. Path.,’ Ilackley’s Trans., p. 635. lie there states that no special class can be made of the “ Cylindromata ” (see another case, infra, p. 118).