XI CONTENTS. TAGE Section E—NoN-malignant Tumoues.— Cases Pigmentation of face. Horny cutaneous growths. Arterio-venous angioma of nose. Ditto of forehead and eyelids, treated by acupuncture. Pulsating tumour of head. Treatment of angioma cavernosum. Case of molluscum lipomatosum; repeated operations. Large neuroma plexiforme. Case of neuro-fibroma of temporal region and orbit. Non-malignant cylindroma of orbit; removal; recovery. Echino- coccus of orbit. Fibroma of the cheek. Fibroma of parotid—Cases. Distension of the antrum; remarks. Note on tumours of the jaw. Case of huge fibroma of lower jaw. Note on polypus nasi. Naso- pharyngeal polypus-—Cases. Note on ranula. Congenital papil- loma of tongue. Sebaceous cyst of tongue . . .86 Section F.—Malignant Tumoues.—Cancer of face—Cases. Cancerous ulceration of cheek leading to necrosis of jaw. Case of rodent ulcer (P); remarks. Notes on epithelioma of the face; of lip. Cases of sarcoma of cheek. Cancer of salivary glands, tongue, etc.; remarks. Sarcoma of salivary glands ; remarks. Case of medullary lymphoma of tonsils; death. Case of alveolar cancer of tongue. Ligature of lingual artery for cancer. Remarks on cancer of tongue —Cases. Sarcoma of orbit; mixed celled; “psammon;” periosteal. Exploratory puncture of orbital tumours—Case. Cylindro-sarcoma. Cancer of orbit; removal; hernia cerebri, etc.; recovery. Sar- coma of lower jaw; central; periosteal. Note on maxillary tumours. Sarcoma of nose. Malignant polypi of nose . *103 CHAPTER VIII. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NECK. Section A.—Miscellaneous.—Acute cellulitis. Case of cut-throat. Case of clonic spasm of stemo-mastoid muscle. Tumours :—Case of cavernous blood tumour; case of cavernous lymph tumour and varix lymphaticus. Case of congenital cyst. Case of serous cyst. Case,of superficial ulcerated sarcoma. Cases of stricture of the oesophagus—malignant, syphilitic, traumatic. Case of congenital diverticulum of the oesophagus. Case of branchial fistula. Case of syphilitic stricture of pharynx. Foreign bodies in the oesophagus Cases. Foreigh bodies in larynx—Cases. Cases of tubercular discaso of larynx. Case of extirpation of larynx and bronchocele. Case of papillary cancer of the trachea; removal. Case of stricture of trachea. Case of cancer of thyroid and trachea; removal. Laryngotomy and tracheotomy in croup and in other diseased con- ditions • • • • • Section R.—Diseases of the Lymphatic Glands.—Simple enlarge- ments Operative treatment. Chronic lymphadenitis and lym-