346 BADLY UNITED FRACTURES. joint, is less capable of restoration when the patients come late under treatment, than when a plaster bandage is applied im- mediately after the injury. In most of these cases the exact nature of the injury is not recognised; in these fractures, as also in those of the lower epiphysis of the radius, surgeons are often more on the look out for sprains, dislocation or contusions than fractures ; much time is lost in applying leeches, douches, etc., while in the meantime the small displaced fragments of bone are allowed to remain in a position unfavourable to the movement of the joint, and thus the numerous ankyloses are caused. More extensive use of anaesthetics is advisable in examining such fractures. If the limb be strong, and the patients are able to use it in their work, I do not think we are justified in recommending excision of the joint very strongly j it cannot be said that the operation is absolutely without risk (who would lose his life on account of a stiff elbow-joint ?), and, again, movement cannot be positively guaranteed after operation, even though the entire joint be freely excised. That this is so I have seen in three cases, one of which I operated on myself. If the joint be ankylosed in an extended position or at a very inconvenient angle, of course we may advise excision. Very oblique fracture of the radius and ulna. A boy, set. 6, had fractured both bones of the forearm about the centre, 1 six weeks previous to admission. Union had taken place with the arm strongly bent over to the volar side. The joints between the first and second phalanges were contracted, giving the hand a claw-like appearance. The radial ulnar and median nerves were partially paralysed ; it seemed probable that one of the nerves was included in the callus. Under an anaesthetic, the deformity was rectified and the paresis and contraction disappeared completely after a few months under the use of galvanism. Partial ankylosis after fracture into the elbow-joint. Jacob B—, aet. 16, fell heavily five months before his admission on to his left hand; ever since that time tire movement of the elbow-joint had boon impaired ; he had never had any bandage applied, but merely a plaster. I found his arm bont at tho elbow at an angle of 100°, and very slight mobility of the joint on passive movement only. A mass of callus could he felt about tho internal condylo and olecranon; forcible passive movement