DISTRIBUTION OP TUMOURS. 480 The different distribution of the various forms of tumours in the different regions of the body (and organs) is of acknowledged clinical importance and diagnostic interest, as has lately been very properly pointed out by Liicke. The practising clinical surgeon diagnoses with still more promptness and certainty from the situa- tion of the tumour, for he knows what he is likely to meet with in this or that part, lor one who has examined histologically many tumours whose seat of election is known, it is usually possible, by taking into account the situation, the consistence, and the rapidity of growth, to describe rightly the histological character of the tumour even in minute details, before making a section of the growth after removal. Of course it is true that in rare cases there is no guarantee against error, but experience can only be founded on the rule, not on the exception. From the tables given I select belowr for remark only those cases in which the numbers are rela- tively so large as to be of obvious import in the sense I have pointed out. Fibroma -was noticed most frequently in the male organs of generation (59 out of a total number of 163). The myo-fibromata of the prostate explain this prevalence. Its equivalent—myo- fibroma of the uterus—is only represented by twenty cases, a number which for reasons already mentioned is far too small. The next largest number occurs in the division of the face, nose, and mouth, where fifty fibromata are tabulated, most of them being nasal and naso-pharyngeal polypi. Among the 33 fibromata of the breast, the largest number were adeno-fibromata of the mamma. Lipoma (66) was most frequently situated in the breast and back (27), then in the upper extremity (18), especially on the upper arm and shoulder, and finally about the throat and back of tire neck (10). The distribution of lipoma is peculiar in being especially restricted to the trunk. Sarcoma (245) was most common about the face; the sarcomata of the jaws and gums (epulis-sarcoma) principally swell the total. Next comes the lower extremity (47), then the breast, (35, most of them being sarcoma and cysto-sarcoma of the mamma, also sarcoma of the skin, especially on the back) and the upper extremity (26). The preponderating frequency of lymphoma (261) about the neck (219) is known to every surgeon, even of small experience. Of 101 cases of angioma, most of which were congenital, 74