163 EXTIRPATION OF BRONCHOCELES. p. B—, let. 23, had severe dyspnoea. Laryngoscopic examinations showed that the trachea was considerably pressed to the left, and the cavity of the tube narrowed internally. The tumour was scarcely noticeable. By making an incision on the left side of the trachea, I was able to draw forward a bron- cliocele the size of a hen’s egg with immediate relief to the respiration. The day after the operation, rales were heard in the trachea, and the dyspnoea again increased markedly. Tracheotomy was performed and the breathing again became free. Everything went on well for a week after the operation, when rapid collapse occurred and he died rather suddenly. The canula was not stopped up. Post-mortem examination showed only extensive capillary bronchitis. The neighbourhood of the wound and the mediastinal cellular tissue were not infiltrated, nor was there any thrombosis of the vein. U. B—, aet. 29, had a sub-stemal tumour in the middle line, the size of an apple, causing formidable dyspnoea, attacks of suffocation at night, loss of sleep, and great distress. The growth was removed; haemorrhage occurred again after he recovered from the anaesthetic, and a tampon soaked in sesqui- chloride of iron was applied. As this brought on the difficulty of breath- ing again, the tampon had to be removed on the day following. The bleeding recurred, and the liquor ferri was again applied. Gangrene of the trachea followed, and he died of septicaemia, and mediastinitis, four days after the operation. On carefully reviewing the results of my experience, I have come to the following conclusions with regard to the operative treatment of bronchocele. Simple primary thyroid cysts may be radically cured by puncture and injection of iodine; this is the most sure, and the least dangerous method. Cysts of this description may be recognised by their distinct fluctuation, and the cholesterine contained in the evacuated fluid. In secondary or softening cysts, the fluctuation is seldom very distinct. The fluid escapes slowly; that which flows last is mixed with blood, and the walls do not collapse much. Such cysts were treated by incision, but the operation is scarcely less dangerous than extirpation. Bronchoceles, even of large size, situated in the middle line of the neck, and causing little or no dyspnoea, can usually be removed successfully, especially in women and girls. Much less favourable in its results is the operation for completely removing deep-seated substernal or unilateral bronchoceles, accompanied by a high degree ot dyspnoea; even in cases in which the operation is immediately success!ul in saving life, the ultimate result is frequently un- favourable. I have occupied myself a great deal with the c[uestion as to why some bronchoceles cause so much dyspnoea, while others, perhaps of