158 TREATMENT OP CYSTIC BRONCHOCELES BY PUNCTURE. converted into a greyish, granular, thick pulp. If these tumours be examined after death, on cutting into the mass a firm sac with pulpy contents will be found, which during life, would have given the impression of being a solid growth. The pulpy matter is usually calcified in part; this form of bronchocele may, perhaps, be diagnosed when neither blood nor fluid escapes, after the explora- tory puncture. These are by no means the only metamorphoses of tumours of the thyroid, which originate in the parenchyma; for purposes of diagnosis, however, and with regard to operative interference, they seem to be the most important changes. That the simple evacuation of the fluid by puncture is nearly always but a palliative measure might be inferred by analogy from the puncture of cysts in other regions. This method is, however, not very advisable in cystic bronchoceles for severe inflammation may follow, as in the following case : C. K—, ict. 25, had a large hypertrophied thyroid. In the middle line of his neck was a distinctly fluctuating tumour, the size of a hen’s egg. Considerable dyspncea had gradually developed. The central tumour was punctured, and some brownish fluid and blood let out. The tumour did not properly collapse. A cyst with central softening was diagnosed. Severe inflammation followed; a sinus formed in connection with the cyst; gradually the enlargement disappeared under the application of ice; the breathing again was free, and he left with the sinus still discharging. Six weeks later he came hack with enlargement of the growth, and much dyspnoea. The central portion of the tumour was removed and proved to be a cysto- adenoma. J. S—, aet. 30, had, on the light side, a hard bronchocele, the size of a goose-egg. He had considerable dyspnoea, aggravated by some tracheal catarrh. The tumour was punctured, some chocolate-coloured fluid evacu- ated, and the dyspnoea immediately improved. The bronchocele, however, did not collapse, and at the posterior part was hard. During the next few day's the dyspnoea again increased; the puncture was repeated, and a canula left in, however without benefit, as the dyspnoea increased, until asphyxia threatened. A large incision was then made, and the edges of the cyst were united by sutures to the skin. The cyst contained some purifonn fluid, and at the posterior paid the wall was calcified. Improvement soon took place, and the patient completely recovered. The calcified masses pro- bably dissolved; at any rate, nothing of them was found in the secretion. The patient’s neck became again quite slender. After these two cases I ceased to employ puncture as a palliative measure, and have always laid open or removed these softening