UNCOMPLICATED CASES OF AMPUTATION. 473 in tabulating my cases, although I met with many difficulties, which could not be overcome by any system of classification. My cases of amputation (between i860 and 1876) were divided into the following classes :l (A.) Uncomplicated Cases. I. Cases in which the patients either recovered and were dis- charged, or died of exhaustion or accidental diseases of wounds.— Under this heading we have 214 cases. In 75 amputation was performed for injury, and in the others for various causes, such as chronic caries, syphilitic gangrene, malignant tumours, frost-bite, pseudarthrosis, etc: 150 recovered; 64 died. Of the deaths 9 were from exhaustion (collapse and marasmus), 3 from erysipelas ambulans, 2 from delirium potatorum, 15 from septo-pysemia. In this group, therefore, the mortality amounts to 29^9 per cent. (The amputations tabulated in the pages referred to are of every variety. In the upper extremity twelve of the amputations were at the shoulder-joint; •eight recovered and four died. Two were amputated through the elbow- joint, while in nine the hand was disarticulated; all the latter patients recovered. In the lower extremity Symes’ amputation was performed only twice, Choparf’s six times, Lisfranc’s once. The operation generally adopted was Pirogoif’s, which was performed in thirty-two cases, twenty-six being ■caries of the foot. This latter operation appears to find far more favour on the Continent generally than it does in this country.—Ed.) With regard to the two columns in the tables of “ recovered ” and “ died,” a good many points have to be taken into consideration. A patient was entered as “ recovered ” if he left the hospital with his stump healed, or nearly healed, although perhaps he may have died of tuberculosis a week later. We must not quite adopt the charming notion that the patients who are entered as having recovered from amputation recovered also from any severe general diseases they may have had. Again, the expression “ recovered” 1 Owing to want of space the tables—though the results shown by them are highly interesting—could not be reprinted entire. They will be found in the ‘Wiener Bcricht,’ 1876, pp. 613—626. In what follows I have merely picked out a few of the salient points.—[Ed.]