443 CHRONIC DISEASE OE ANKLE, AND OF FOOT. admission, but was unable to do so during the fourteen days she remained in hospital; she was then discharged with a knee-cap. I heard a year later that the knee was perfectly well, and she had had no fresh pain in the part. The diagnosis in this case was somewhat doubtful. A man, set. 23, was admitted, who three months previously had fallen down in the street on his right knee. Acute synovitis followed, and he was confined to bed for a fortnight. He then resumed his occupation as a tailor. Shortly afterwards, he felt one day, while walking, a sudden stabbing pain in the knee, and was forced to sit down. Placing his hand on his knee, he felt beneath the skin on the inner side of the patella, an elongated, round, elastic body, which he was able to push about from one part to another, but which slipped away from under the fingers. On the second or third day the same thing happened again, and caused the man to come up to the hospital. The patient would not submit to any operation, and was discharged again after a while. I saw him again two years later. The loose cartilage gave him no particular trouble ; it made its appearance perhaps two or three times in the course of a year, but went away again at once. At times he had some swelling of the knee-joint (a slight degree of hydrops genu). Crackling could be felt when the joint was moved (arthritis deformans). Chronic Inflammation of the Ankle. (Z. B). A table of thirty-nine cases will be found in the f Zurich. Bericht/ pp. 532 et seq. In six cases partial excision was performed; thus in four the astragalus was removed, and in one the lower end of the tibia was excised at the same time. Pirogoff s amputation was per- formed in nine cases; recovery followed in the successful cases, at periods varying from seven and nine weeks up to four months. Those who recovered had excellent stumps (see Pig. 23). Syme’s amputation was performed in one case; recovery followed in fifty- one days. Chronic Disease of the Bones and Articulations of the Poot. (Z. B).1 The first metatarsal bone is comparatively frequently diseased. Recovery in many cases is very tedious after its excision, and the regeneration of bone after superiosteal removal is either very small or entirely wanting. I make it my practice, therefore, among the Tables of thirty-six cases will be found in the ‘ Ziir. Ber.,’ pp. 542 et seq., and 546 et seq.