262 TREATMENT OF ALKALINE URINE. experience of' salicylic acid, which has lately been recommended).1 I give five grammes of these acids with a little fruit syrup daily, in a large quantity of water. Phosphoric and nitric acids are of less unpleasant taste than benzoic acid : the latter again is not so readily soluble in water, and more, therefore, has to be taken. On the other hand, the benzoic acid is tolerated better by the stomach, indeed, I have seen cases where the appetite improved under its administration. It is well known that benzoic acid is in part excreted in the urine as hippuric acid, and partly passes out unaltered; it does not irritate the most sensitive or the loosest mucous membrane, while the phosphoric acid turns the urine acid so quickly and strongly at times that it has to be left off; if continued the vesical pains are much increased. According to the degree of alkaline fermentation in the bladder, it took, as a rule, from four to eight days in moderately severe cases before the urine became acid. Previous to this there comes a period during which the urine, when allowed to stand, is at one time alkaline again, at another preserves its acidity. Sometimes the urine was exceedingly pale, with scarcely a trace of colouring matter in it; this may perhaps depend on the amount that the patients drink. In opposition to this view we may note that the amount of urine excreted is in many cases by no means excessive; and, again, that the paleness is far more marked than can be accounted for by the drinking of large quan- tities of water. One other factor should be taken into account, viz. that often in these patients there is very little secreting power left in the kidneys, and proportionately little colouring matter is formed. The absence of colour is masked by the blood and pus, as long as the mucous membrane of the urinary tract is kept in an inflamed condition by the ammoniacal urine. I have seen a few cases where the patient could not stand the acidulation of the urine even with very small doses of phosphoric acid. In a few other cases, too, it was not found possible to keep the urine acid, not- withstanding that various acids were administered for periods of several weeks. Certainly, these were complicated with rough calculi in the bladder. I suspect that the ferment was contained in the irregularities and depressions of the stone. 1 Recently I have frequently recommended a 5 percent, solution of chlorate of potash for the treatment of ammoniacal fermentation of the urine, with advantage. I have employed the same remedy also in cases where the urine was neutral or feebly acid, and cloudy, with bacteria.