200 OSSIFICATION OF THE FASCIA OF THE BACK. muscle was wasted. The same was the case with the pectoral muscles. No abnormal inequality or hardness existed at the sides and anterior surface of the thorax. From what has been said, it may be gathered that the movements of the arms at the shoulder-joints, although very limited, were not wholly absent. The humerus which was slightly abducted when in a position of repose, could be adducted to a certain extent though not completely crossed over on to the abdomen. Rotation of the humerus at the shoulder-joint was free, but gave rise to a curious phenomenon. As it was moved, the head of the humerus slipped hither and thither with trembling movements, as if there were some irregularities on its surface, and a sound resembling soft crepitus was distinctly audible at some distance. The explanation probably was that the separate muscular bundles of the deltoid were atrophied and the interstitial connective tissue increased. Thus the whole mass had become stiff, and perhaps adherent more or less to the capsule of the joint, and the irregularities of the dry cellular tissue, gave rise, on rotation of the head of the bone, to the quivering movements and grating sounds. The arm could not be completely extended at the elbow-joint, evidently owing to the tough and stiff condition of the biceps tendon. No material difference existed between the shoulder- and elbow-joints of the two sides. With the exception of a small, rounded exostosis on the second phalanx of the index finger, no other pathological ossification existed elsewhere in the upper extremities. The first phalangeal articulation of the left middle finger was restricted in its movement, owing to uniform thickening of the ends of the phalanges from bony or cartilaginous thickening. The movements of all the other joints of the hands and feet were perfectly normal. With the exception of a small exostosis on the inner side of the left tibia, and a similar growth on the outer side of the condyle of the right femur there was nothing abnormal to be noted in the lower extremities, and the patient could, without inconvenience, walk for several hours. But the list of ossifications is not yet exhausted, for the movements of the lower jaw were much impaired, and it, could only be depressed sufficiently to admit the little finger between the teeth. No hardness or irregularity could be felt from without in the muscles of mastication; probably, therefore, the defective movement was due to the tough and stiff condition of the articular ligaments. The affection of this articulation, as far as could be gathered from the patient, was of late occurrence. The movements of the vertebral column were very partial; the patient was completely unable to straighten himself from his bent position. Lateral movements and rotation between the dorsal vertebrae were only possible to a very limited extent. Those of the cervical vertebrae were more free, but even here the movements were far below the normal; thus the power of bending back was almost completely absent, owing to the loss of extensibility in both sterno-mastoid muscles which stood out as prominent, rigid bands. Extending from the angle of the chin to the stemo-clavicular region were numerous tough, cord-like bands, obviously due to partial thickening oE the interstitial cellular tissue in the platysma myoides. Inspiration was kept up by means of the so-called auxiliary muscles of