88 ANGIOMA OAVEBNOSTTM. H. K—, a strong man, set. 27, consulted me in November, 1871. Ten years before be had noticed a pulsating swelling at the back of his bead. He could assign no cause for it, but was certain that the disease was not congenital, at any rate, in the form of a pulsating growth. He bad never been told whether a naevus had existed at this spot at the time of birth. Two years after the new formation had been first noticed it was injected by Nelaton with sesqui- chloride of iron. Slight diminution followed. This process was repeated a year later by the same surgeon, and again two years before he came to me by Pean, with much the same result. On each occasion the tumour became some- what smaller and the pulsation diminished, but it soon reverted to the former condition. When I saw him the tumour was the size of a goose’s egg, soft and elastic. Pulsation was everywhere distinct, and tolerably strong. I tried electro-puncture with the constant stream (10 cells) for eight minutes, passing the needles into the tumour. Considerable bleeding occurred from the punc- tures, and was controlled by pressure. The reaction was slight, and no success followed the operation. The man had not sufficient patience to wait for any further operative proceedings. Angioma Cayernosum. In eleven cases of angioma cavernosum, which came under observation at Vienna, the eyelids, nose, cheeks, lips, mucous membrane of the mouth, and the tongue were the parts affected. In some of the cases, one of these parts alone was the seat of the vascular growth, in others several of them were involved together; phleboliths were frequently noticed. In eight instances we learned that a small blue spot had existed from birth; these congenital cavernous angiomata increased more slowly than those of the plexi- form variety. The patients operated on ranged from two years old up to twenty-nine. The increase in the size of the tumour from the time at which it was first noticed, was, in the majority of cases very gradual. In one instance, the vascular growth originated in the skin of the nose at nineteen years of age, without any known cause, and in the course of ten years had only attained moderate dimensions. Two other patients ascribed the origin very positively to a blow on the cheek. The preponderance of the female sex in all these cases of angioma is striking. In five instances total or partial excision seemed to me the most suitable proceeding. Occasionally I employed galvano-caustic punc- ture, and in three cases I passed repeatedly through the tumour threads soaked in perchloride of iron. I saw lately a child, twelve