321 FRACTURE OF THE PELVIS. Diastasis of the hones of the pelvis. A man, ret. 52, was struck down by a falling tree, and died a few hours after the injury. Post-mortem: The bones at the symphysis pubis and the right sacro-iliac joint were found to be widely separated. There was also a complicated fracture in the lower third of the right femur. Fracture of the pelvis. Among the cases of fractured pelvis may be mentioned that of a child, six years old, over whose pelvis an entire railway train passed, so that the lower part of the body remained attached only by the skin, which was but slightly lacerated. No haemorrhage from the large vessels. The child died an hour after the injury. The diagnosis of fractured pelvis is, in many cases, easy enough. By forcible rocking of the pelvis, pressure on the symphysis, or exploration by the rectum, the fracture may, in the majority of instances, be recognised through the severe pain and the percep- tible displacement of the bones. No doubt fissures of the venter ilii, and of the acetabulum, cannot be always positively diagnosed, but when, after some considerable injury about the pelvic region— where fracture or dislocation of the vertebral column, thigh, etc., can be excluded—the patient is only able to stand upright or walk with much difficulty, or where these symptoms disappear after some weeks' rest in bed, it may be pretty confidently assumed that frac- ture of the pelvis existed. In a very large number of cases which came under my observation, the patients were unable at first to pass the urine and required the use of the catheter. It must not be supposed, from the presence of this symptom, that any lesion of the bladder necessarily exists, or that the spinal cord has been injured, as such symptoms frequently disappear after a few days or weeks; it is possible that sometimes the jarring of the vesical nerves may account for the paralysis of the detrusor urina; but I suspect that in many cases the functions of the muscular coats of the bladder are paralysed for a time by the extravasated blood, which so frequently, in fractured pelvis, almost entirely surrounds the organ. Usually in simple fracture of the pelvis, the extravasation is soon absorbed, and the functions of the bladder are thereupon restored. In other cases, I believe par- 21