Xlll CONTENTS. PAGE fibroma of tbe breast. Case of cysto-sarcoma of very slow growth. Sarcoma developing in both breasts during pregnancy. Remarks on adeno-cysto-sarcoma. Case of melanotic carcinoma combined with alveolar sarcoma. Double carcinoma developing during preg- nancy. Re marks on cases of cancer occurring at Zurich—-at Vienna. Operative treatment of mammary cancer. Diseases of the male breast. Case of chronic induration—of carcinoma . . 206 CHAPTER XI. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN AND RECTUM. Section A.—Injukies and Diseases of the Abdomen.—Cases of penetrating abdominal wounds. Case of rupture of abdominal muscle. Case of injury to stomach. Case of ruptured spleen— Death from other causes. Retro-peritoneal inflammation and abscess—Cases. Cases of villous cancer of pylorus, ulcerating through the abdominal walls. Encysted peritoneal effusion— Cases and remarks : Three doubtful cases of same affection. Case of volvulus. Cases of fibrous tumour of the abdominal walls. Cases of cancer of the omentum and pelvic viscera—attempted removal . . . . . . 227 Section B.—Heenia.—Hernia of the umbilical cord—Cases. Um- bilical hernia and congenital faecal fistula. Ventral hernia. Phrenic hernia. Case of incarcerated ventral hernia; death. Case of internal strangulation; abdominal section; death ; Remarks. Cases with symptoms of strangulation—inflamed empty hernial sac; hernia purulenta; peritonitis from typhus (P) ulcer; strangulated testis. Case of umbilical hernia; gangrene of gut. Remarks on strangulated hernia; treatment. Case of faecal and vesical fistula after femoral hernia. Case of faecal fistula after hernia; ditto, treated by plastic operation. Case of artificial anus cured by entdrotome. Case of strangulated vermi- form appendix. Case of femoral Littre’s hernia. General remarks on strangulated hernia .... 238 Section C.—Diseases of the Rectum.—Case of perforating ulcer of rectum. Atresia ani. Case of fistula in ano. Operations for fistula in ano. Case of prolapsus recti. Treatment of haemorr- hoids. Removal of rectum for cancer. Case of malignant stricture of rectum. Case of permanent recovery after removal of rectum. Cancer of rectum—Treatment .... 250