2 ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. 5 per cent, carbolic acid; silk protective on the wound; over this crumpled carbolic gauze, then a large fold of carbolic gauze and mackintosh; next gauze roller bandages to keep all in place, the edges of the dressings filled with salicylated wool, and over this, a layer of cotton-wadding. With recent wounds, all went on well at first, but then two patients—one with caries of the hip, another of the elbow-joint—were attacked with septic phlegmo- nous inflammation of the most severe character. The secretion of the wound was free from odour; both patients died.1 For a time, matters went on better, but then cases of carbolic poisoning, and of carbolic eczema became so common, that I gave up this antiseptic, replacing it by thymol. Then I employed dressings containing no earbolic, but saturated with spermaceti and colophony.2 The pro- tective thus became unnecessary, for its principal use is to prevent the direct contact of the wound and carbolic gauze. On the whole, I was well pleased with this method, and was able to demonstrate to those who watched our practice, that the results are just as satisfactory as could be shown in the wards of the most zealous and practised “ antiseptist.” Further, I have con- 1 I have long tried to make clear to myself and others the difference between septic and phlogistic, or zymoid ferment on the one hand, and the product of fermentation—the putrid and phlogistic poison—on the other. Evidence that both elements coexist in the tissues and fluids, but are not identical, only gradually came to light. I have often maintained that the materials producing septic infection and phlogogenous inflammation could neither be gaseous nor fluid, but must be looked upon as minute atomic molecular bodies. The view that these ferments always exist in very minute organisms has been widely diffused by Lister and Pasteur, but I have shown reasons to doubt the absolutely convincing nature of their experiments (see my work on the ‘ Cocco- Bacteria Septica Now, the putrid poison—the product of fermentation— there can be no doubt, is a non-organised body, possessing certain properties which have been described by Panum and Bergmann. During the process of decomposition odorous products are often set free ; such products may possess certain poisonous properties, but they are not identical with the poison, nor do they constitute it; the putrid poison is inodorous. Moreover, the part whence it arises need not have any ill smell; yet further, it may be formed from tissues to which air has not access. If a wound be free from smell there is a tolerably strong probability that no decomposition is going oil in it. At the same time products may develop at the edges of the wound Qf hj retained blood, by whose absorption pyrogenous effects may be set up. Inodorous phlogistic poisonous material is formed, for example, in connection with those acute inflammations with which we are familiar, and which originate in the subcutaneous tissues. ' 2 I.e. black resin or turpentine boiled in water and dried.