322 ABSCESS INVOLVING GLUTEAL ARTERY. tial suppuration takes place, and gives rise to the rigors, which I have frequently observed in cases of fractured pelvis, where recovery followed without any serious results. When there is a wound of the skin and injury to the urethra, the breaking down and suppura- tion of the extravasated blood which usually ensues will inevitably prove fatal; even if no external wound be present, the suppuration may lead to thrombosis, metastatic abscesses in the lungs, and pyaemia, as some of my cases prove. Chronic abscess of the back of the pelvis, unconnected with bone. Louise W—, set. 26, married, mother of two children, stated that she had suffered, up to the age of 20, from chronic abscesses in the cervical glands, and also about the elbow and trochanter. About a year and a half before her admission she had severe pain in the right gluteal region, extending down into the lower limbs. Six weeks before we saw her an abscess had been opened in the gluteal region, and a great quantity of pus let out. Although the cavity of the abscess was most minutely examined, no hone could he detected, and it appeared to be confined to the cellular tissue. The sinuses would not heal, and a year later the patient’s chance of recovery seemed hopeless. A. L—, set. 20, a weaver, had suffered, fifteen months before his admission into the hospital, from pain in the right gluteal region ; he found gradually' increasing trouble in getting about. An abscess formed behind the right trochanter, which enlarged steadily, and about a year after the commence- ment of the disease, opened spontaneously at several points. The patient, who up to that time had been able, though with some difficulty, to get about, was now confined to bed ; the suppuration was very considerable. Injections and baths were employed, but the sinuses could not be induced to close. One day, without any apparent cause, sudden hamiorrbage took place from one of the sinuses; it was controlled by a tampon, but soon after occurred again, and he was brought up to the hospital. Shortly after his admission fresh arterial bleeding took place. I laid the sinuses open down deeply into the gluteal muscle and secured the gluteal artery from which the haemorrhage came. There was no further return of the bleeding; tbe large wounds of incision healed up slowly and the patient gradually recovered, but in spite of careful treatment the sinuses were still discharging, four and a half yearn after the commencement of the disease. The man was sent home so pale and wasted, and was altogether in so miserable a condition, that he could not be expected to live long. I could not make out that there was any disease of the internal organs; no exposed bone could be felt through any of the numerous sinuses.