462 CONGENITAL TALIPES. TENOTOMY. apparatus with india-rubber bands, but without any benefit. She then came under the care of Professor Dumreicher, who divided the tendo-Achillis and, subsequently, numerous other tendons, but without any benefit except for a very short time. If the patient were kept quiet in bed, the displacement was very slight. Congenital Talipes. It is now well known that in congenital talipes the shape of the tarsal bones is abnormal, and that the abnormality increases if the individuals walk about on their club feet. All that we, as surgeons, usually do, in order to cure club foot, is to enable the foot easily to be brought into a natural position and kept so by means of a proper shoe. It is the business of the resident surgeon to see the treatment properly carried out, that is, that the shoe fits well, and that the foot cannot shift about in it. Curiously enough, there seem to be many members of our profession who so little appreciate the anatomical conditions that they suppose the treatment to be com- prised in tenotomy. Not infrequently in private I see cases in which years previously tenotomy—and tenotomy alone—had been performed. The parents suppose that the ill success was due to incomplete operation. As far as lies in my power, I urge again and again upon my pupils that tenotomy is only a means to accelerate cure. The treatment of talipes according to our present principles and methods is so eminently satisfactory that I trust practical surgeons will no longer abstain from carrying it out thoroughly. While at Zurich thirty-seven cases of congenital talipes came under treatment. This number appears to me comparatively large. The list included only one adult—a girl 21 years of age. After long treatment with Scarpa’s shoes,1 she was sent out, able to walk with her feet flat on the ground. The children usually came under treatment when from one to twelve years old. I used some- times to treat them with plaster-of-Paris splints—rarely with mechanical appliances. The tendo-Achillis was divided in about one half of the cases. If the parents of these children lacked the patience or money necessary for the completion of the cure the patients were provided with a Scarpa’s shoe and discharged. We were usually forced to discharge the patients rather early on account 1 ‘ Schienenstiefel.’