192 PENETRATING GUNSHOT WOUND. FRACTURED RIBS. next fortnight he improved ; then the dyspnoea again set in, and there were symptoms of left pneumothorax. Thin pus was discharged from the wound, and two or three days later air also escaped. He became collapsed, and died. Two days before death ho had copious vomiting of bilious matter, with distension and abdominal pain. Post mortem : a small portion of the seventh rib, corresponding to the wound, was denuded of periosteum; the probe passed below the lower edge of the rib, and ran obliquely upwards for about eight inches into the cavity of the thorax ; downwards, the opening extended for about four inches. The heart was found pushed towards the middle line. In the left pleura, three or four pints of thin, dark, foul pus. About the centre of the lower lobe of the left lung, was a ragged gap on the surface, the size of a shilling, The entire lung was compressed and contained no air. A square-shaped opening was found in the posterior wall of the oesophagus, just above the diaphragm, and the tissue between the oesophagus and aorta in the lower part of the thoracic cavity was converted into a dirty, stinking pulpy mass.1 Tenetrating gunshot wound of the chest. W—, at. 23, attempted to shoot himself with a revolver. A veiy small aperture entrance lay under the left nipple, just external to the area of pr;e- cordial dulness. He had considerable hasmothorax and infiltration of the lobe of lower lung. Subsequently pleurisy with exudation followed, and at a later stage circumscribed pneumothorax (Hohlen-phanomene), with a good deal of purulent vomit, accompanied by febrile symptoms and emaciation. Eventually the patient recovered. The symptoms of the pneumothorax, and the purulent vomit disappeared entirely, but some dulness at the lower part of the left lung persisted. I suppose that the bullet was fixed in the left lower lobe of the lung, an abscess formed around it, which healed up, and so the bullet was encapsuled. We were unable to gain any further in- formation about the case. Fracture of the ribs. In one case that came under notice, the fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, were fractured anteriorly on the right side. The skin was raised up prominently over a broken off fragment of the fifth rib. The patient had a slight attack of pleurisy, which he got over. Gradually a small portion of the prominent skin became gangrenous. On the seventeenth day after the injury, without any further symptoms, the fragment perforated, hut the projection was closely invested by the skin. Thinking that the internal opening into the pleura must have been firmly closed by exudation, I tried to extract the piece of bone. 1 I think that in this case there is no doubt that the softening of the oesophagus took place during life. With regard to this point see au interesting essay by Prof. Hoffman, of Basel. (‘Virchow’s Arch.,’ 1868).