445 CHRONIC DISEASE OP TARSUS. Disease of the Tarsus. A point of interest that occurred to me in studying my tables of this disease, lay in the fact that the os calcis was, in numerous instances, alone affected; among fifty-three cases of diseased tarsus, the calcaneus alone was affected in twelve, and in every instance suppuration occurred. In all my cases, I practised evidement with, subsequent removal of the sequestrum. One of my patients died of pyaemia; unfortunately, in many of the cases I was unable to learn how far the treatment was ultimately successful. I regret this, for it would be important to know whether, in such cases, the operation of evidement is a judicious one; at the best, a long time elapses before the cavity becomes filled with bone • the walls are so rigid owing to the formation of osteophytes (invaginating bone) that they cannot contract. I trust that others will be able to give us further evidence on this point. In the c Wiener Bericht/ for 1876, p. 572, will be found parallel tables, showing the relative frequency of bone and joint affections in the upper and lower extremities. One point my tables seem to make out tolerably clearly is that in individuals of scrofulous and tubercular habit the upper extremity is, after the lungs, the part most commonly affected. When the two conditions are combined the prognosis is decidedly unfavourable. Section D.—Tumours, Aneurisms, Deformities, etc.— Cases of lipoma ; enchondroma; ecchondrosis ossificans bursata; multiple osteomata ; neuro-fibroma ; recurrent ditto; caver- nous lymphatic tumour (2); melanoma; pulsating sarcoma ; central sarcoma of femur—removal; epithelioma. Cases of femoral aneurism treated by ligature; ditto com- pression and ligature ; traumatic aneurism—Antyllus’ opera- tion; ditto cured by compression; spontaneous aneurism— double ligature of femoral; traumatic aneurism; arterio- venous aneurism ; femoral aneurism treated by arterial clamp ; popliteal aneurism treated by ergotine injection. General re- marks on treatment of aneurism. Genu valgum ; osteotomy. Case of spastic talipes. Remarks on talipes: treatment; case.