LIGATURE OP LINGUAL ARTERY FOR CANCER OP TONGUE. 113 portion of the tongue, tolerably free haemorrhage occurred from the lingual artery, and I had my doubts as to whether this vessel had actually been tied. The patient died two days later of septicaemia.. Post mortem, we discovered that the lingual vein had been ligatured instead of the artery. Every surgeon knows the difficulty of tying the lingual artery in old people; the vessel lies so deep that it is very difficult to distinguish it from thick-walled distended veins, especially when owing to heart disease—as in this case—the veins pulsate. Never previously had I met with a lingual vein of such thickness. In the dead subject the veins are usually empty, and the conditions are so different that no opportunity is afforded for practising properly these delicate, but—under some conditions—very valuable operations. Cancer of the tongue and the mouth. Of forty-eight cases met with between i860—1876, forty-two were operated on; fifteen died after operation, three died from other accidental circumstances. The disease commonly begins between 50 and 60 years of age, but one of my patients was 70 years old, and two others between the ages of 27 and 29. A man, in whom the disease had extended far back into the pharynx, died from peri oesophagitis, mediastinitis and septic pleuritis, which were set up by the passage of a probang through the walls of the oesophagus.. In one man the lingual artery was ligatured on both sides, in the hope that the infiltration of the tongue in the cavity of the mouth might diminish. However, the ligature led to no good results, nor did any rapid breaking down of the already ulcerated new formation occur. In thirteen cases I operated from the neck; eight of these patients died after the operation. In one instance the lower jaw was sawn through at the side, and an ivory plug was introduced into the medul- lary cavity. Death followed from osteomyelitis of the lower jaw. In thirty-two cases I removed the cancer from the mouth, in twenty- one instances I ligatured the artery on one side, and in two on botli sides. Altogether, includiug the case mentioned above, the lingual artery was ligatured twenty-seven times; no secondary haemorrhage ever followed. The wounds always healed satisfactorily, and since I took to inserting a small drain, usually closed by first intention.