REMARKABLE CASE OF NEURALGIA OF FIFTH NERVE. 59 consulted numerous medical men, and the bundles of prescriptions exhibited were evidence that all the usual remedies had been tried. In July, 1863, I divided, subcutaneously, the infraorbital nerve at its exit from the canal at several points (Zerschneidung). From this time forth he was free from his attacks, his cheerfulness returned, and he was able to resume his avocations. This lasted for a year and a half. Then, slight momentary darting pain in the nose began; these slight paroxysms were accompanied from time to time by swelling of the mucous membrane of the right side, but without causing much discomfort. In February, 1866, my patient came back, stating that bis com- plaint was more an inconvenience than a disease, but he desired that the section should be again performed that he might be rid of the trifling attacks. In February, 1867, I divided the nasal branch of the infraorbital subcutaneously. When I saw him again in July, 1867, he was, and had been, completely free from the attacks. Any one who had seen this man then, and also at the first, would have called the result a brilliant one, even if the neuralgia were subsequently to return. From a surgical point of view the following case of neuralgia is probably unique : Herr E—, set. 60, was admitted in March, 1864. Considering bis age, be was robust, muscular, and energetic, and bad previously enjoyed good health. Two years previously he bad first experienced pains of a sharp nature in the left cheek and the teeth. These occurred at such long intervals that they were thought to be rheumatic. This view was further strengthened, as each attack was accompanied by flushing of the face, especially on the left side; this likewise was thought to be due to his having caught cold. Soon, however, the attacks became more frequent, first every week, then every second day, finally daily; for four months the paroxysms came on several times daily, being excited often by speaking, masticating, stroking the beard, or pressure on the part. The spasms of pain never occurred unless the patient excited them by some movement or touch. So long as he had sufficient control over himself to be perfectly still in bed, he was able to sleep soundly through the night; the spasms never occurred during sleep. When admitted he was unable to eat or drink without bringing 011 an attack. The pain during the spasms extended over the left cheek and upper lip, the upper jaw and the teeth, and varied in intensity and duration. He distinguished slight and severe attacks. When the disease began he had some diseased molar teeth in the left superior maxilla. Thinking that the pain might originate from these teeth, he had them extracted on different occasions, as well as some other teeth on the left side. However, the removal of the teeth did not improve matters. All kinds of remedies, internal and external, such as quinine, steel, arsenic, iodides, veratrum, &c., were tried without success. Subcutaneous injections of morphia alone gave benefit; gradually the amount of morphia thus administered