COMPOUND FRACTURE INTO THE ELBOW-JOINT. 357 in the lungs. Finally, diarrhoea attended by haemorrhage persisted for ten days, yet when all further source of infection was removed by amputation, the patient recovered from the effects. Such cases, unfortunately, are only too rare. Compound fracture into the elbow-joint. (Z. B.) The following seven cases came under observation in Zurich : J. W—, set. go. This man’s right olecranon was cut through by the knife of a straw-cutting machine, and a wound an inch and a half long made in the skin. Two days after the injury complete resection of the elbow-joint was performed. The wound did not heal perfectly for six months. When the patient was discharged he was able to flex and extend his arm and had some power of pronation and supination. I saw him four years later and was astonished to find how much the arm had altered for the worse. The forearm was displaced upwards and backwards for three inches, but it could be brought down to its normal position. The amount of lateral mobility was excessive. Active movements were very limited, but the utility of the hand certainly was quite unimpaired. C. S—, set. 70, a wasted, weakly man, had his arm run over. The olecranon was fractured, and there was a large lacerated wound of the skin, but at first we could not make out that there was any opening into the joint. I did not think that the patient was likely to survive his injury long, for he had a considerable contused wound of the leg also. However he rallied well. Suppuration of the elbow-joint ensued, and on the thirtieth day after the injury I excised the joint. He died eighteen days later of febrile marasmus. Herr B—, set. 39. This patient while in a state of delirium from typhus fever, sprang out of the third floor of a hospital on to the pavement. He sustained simple fracture of both calcanea, in addition to a compouud fracture of the lower end of the left humerus extending into the joint. The patient was in such a weak state that I did not venture at once upon primary resection. Twelve days after the injury I performed excision, for there was suppuration in the joint and from the contused wounds : the operation was followed by rigors and extensive suppuration about the elbow. Six days after the excision I amputated the humerus. The patient died two days later—twenty days after the injury—of pyremia.