372 TREATMENT OF ANKYLOSED ELBOW-JOINT. usually content myself with correcting the deformed position under an anaesthetic. Most of the patients came up with the arm ankylosed at a very obtuse angle; by bending it to a right angle the limb is rendered far more useful. The limb was always put up in a plaster bandage. I never found it necessary to repeat the process more than once. If any severe pain followed the redressement an ice- bladder was kept on the part, but it was rarely found necessary to continue this application for any length of time. In one instance only (a young girl) a rather acute abscess developed beneath the bandage, over the external condyle; the plaster case was removed, and a quantity of foul pus let out by an incision. The pus was found to contain a great number of strepto-cocci. Uninterrupted recovery followed. In another case I found myself unable to flex the limb to a proper position under chloroform. Suspecting that the difficulty was due to bony union of the olecranon and the trochlea, I cut down on the olecranon and separated it. I was then able to flex the limb, but suppuration followed and the ankylosis was not complete for ten weeks. Hydrops of the elbow-joint. {Hydrops hernia synovialis). A man, set. 21, came under my care with the history that his previous health had always been good, hut that for about three months he had been unable to extend his left arm completely, and found that this limb soon became tired when he was at work : at the same time he noticed a slightly painful swelling beneath the skin, on the outer side of the elbow-joint. When admitted, we found a subcutaneous swelling, the size of a walnut, firmly attached close above the external condyle of the left humerus. I sus- pected that the tumour was a ganglion connected with the joint, and accordingly discountenanced operation. The patient however, was anxious to have something done, as the condition of the arm interfered with his work. I punctured the swelling, and let out some oolloid matter, containing fibrinous melon-seed bodies. The puncture soon closed, and the fluid collected again, so that a month or two later I performed subcutaneous discission with a teno- tomy knife. The fluid again collected, hut unfortunately the whole joint became painful. Subacute inflammation of the entire articulation followed ; the puncture again gave way, and the joint suppurated. I then performed complete excision. He loft the hospital with a useful arm, but I was un- able to learn the subsequent result.