376 OASES OP ANEURISM. separated from each other and resembled somewhat the claws of a crab. The fourth finger was removed, after the attachment at the base had been cut through with the bone forceps. Aneurism of the subclavian artery, treated by compression. K. P—, set. 34, three weeks previously had struck his right shoulder in a fall; a week later, he noticed a swelling about the left clavicle, which increased gradually. On admission he had pain in the left arm, and numbness of the fingers. The swelling was of the size of a hen’s egg. Digital com- pression was tried, and also pressure, with a specially constructed apparatus, but in five weeks’ time, there was no appreciable improvement, and the patient left the hospital uncured. Subclavian aneurism. Ergotin injections. A man, aet. 56, came under my care, who, three years previously, without known cause, had noticed darting pains in the right arm, with formication and numbness of the fingers, but the symptoms were not sufficiently severe to prevent him from following his employment. Six months before I saw him, the symptoms became more marked, and a medical man detected a pul- sating tumour above the clavicle. Eight days before admission he had a severe attack of dyspncea. When admitted, I found an aneurism of the right subclavian artery, the size of the fist. As operative proceedings seemed inadvisable, I employed subcutaneous injection of ergotin over the aneurism, as recommended by von Langenbeck. No improvement took place under this treatment; the growth increased, the attacks of dyspnoea became more frequent, the voice hoarse, and he died of marasmus, a month after admission. Traumatic aneurism of the radial artery. Ligature of the brachial. A smith, set. 40, was admitted with the following historyFifteen days previously, a large splinter flew off from a heavy iron hammer, and struck him on the flexor side of the right forearm. Immediately, a jet of blood spurted from the wound, according to the patient’s rather hyperbolical account, to a height of six feet. Ho pressed a coin upon the wound, and placed the arm in cold water. A surgeon applied a bandage and sent him home. The bleeding soon recurred, and during the next fortnight occurred on an average twice daily. The quantity of blood lost was estimated by the patient at several pints, and must undoubtedly have been very considerable; the slightest movement—an attack of coughing for instance—was sufficient to bring on the htemorrhago again, and the man had fainted several times from loss of blood. The forearm became considerably swollen on the day o£