CONTENTS. XVI PAGE elbow. Case of reproduction of elbow-joint after excision. Anky- losis of elbow—treatment. Caso of hydrops of the elbow-joint. Chronic disease of the wrist-joint. Case of excision of wrist . 359 <:Section C. — Malformations, Tumours, etc. — Contracted cicatrix from burn—Operation. Caso of contracted palmar fascia. Syn- dactylia. Cases of subclavian aneurism; Compression; Ergotin injections. Traumatic aneurisms of radial artery; Ligature of brachial; Antyllus's operation. Case of clonic spasm of muscles of shoulder. Case of neuralgia. Simple tumours—Enlarged deltoid bursa; Atheroma of finger; Cavernous lymphangioma; Enchon- droma; Cicatricial fibroma of palm of hand; Neuro-fibroma of the musculo-spiral nerve ; Osteoma. Malignant tumours—Sar- coma (small-celled) of deltoid; Alveolar sarcoma of humerus; Sarcoma of hand; Lympho-sarcoma treated by injection of albumi- nate of mercury; Granulation sarcoma; Spindle-celled sarcoma; Osteo-sarcoma of clavicle—Removal; Osteo-sarcoma of humerus; Central osteo-sarcoma of ulna; Epithelial carcinoma originating in the wound of an issue ..... 373 CHAPTER XVII. INJURIES AND DISEASES OE THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Section A.—Injuries.—Erost-bite. Contusions of the hip. Fracture of neck of femur. Case of gangrene after fracture of femur. Treatment of simple fractures of femur; of leg; of fibula; of patella. Case of pyaemia after simple fracture. Case of fracture of necrosed femur. Case of softening callus a year after union. Cases of faulty union. Cases of pseudarthrosis. Treatment of pseudarthrosis. Cases of ununited fracture; repeated operations. Remarkable case of compound fracture of thigh. Compound fracture of leg—Case. Cases of compound dislocation of ankle. Cases of dislocated hip. Case of dislocation of astragalus. Wound of both tibial arteries ..... 387 .Section B.—Acute and Chronic Inflammations.—Cases of acuta phlegmonous infiammation. Spontaneous gangreno from embolism. Gangrene from disease of the smaller arteries—Case. Case of gangrene from anaemia ; from somo unknown cause. Amputation in gangrene. Cases of gangrone ; spontaneous; from ombolism of subclavian ; senile. Varieties of gangrene. Case of ulceration of leg with lengthening of the limb. Cases of gangrenous ulceration. Periarticular abscess. Acute gonitis Case. Cases of acute periostitis and osteomyelitis ; of femur; of tibia ; remarks. Cases of osteomyelitis with separation of epiphyses. Case of acute ostitis. Cases of subacute osteomyelitis. Ditto