PARESIS AFTER LIGATURE OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. 57 later of tuberculosis of the lungs and intestines. The base of the ulcer of the tongue proved to be a fatty small-celled infiltration between the bundles of muscle, around which lay a ring of breaking down miliary tubercle. P. A—, set. 38, a strong, well-built man, was admitted with a history of numerous attacks of haemoptysis two years previously, followed by severe bronchial catarrh lasting nearly nine months. He had been relieved by long- continued “curd treatment.” The appearance, the formation of the thorax, and the well-nourished condition of the man, were such that his statements seemed scarcely credible. Nothing abnormal could be found after careful percussion and auscultation of the thorax. Five months previously he had first remarked a small fissure on the upper surface of the tongue, which gradually increased, and on admission was nearly three quarters of an inch long and about a line and a half in depth. The patient denied any syphilitic infection. The fissure-like ulcer had nearly healed after repeated energetic cauterisation with argent, nit., when the patient left for private reasons. Subsequently the small ulcer completely closed up, leaving only a slight trace. For a time it remained unaltered, but six months later, it again began to increase and became wider, more rounded, and extended in all directions. On the second admission of the patient, the anterior and right half of the tongue were occupied by an ulcer with hard sinuous edges and irregular base. The appearance of the ulcer led me to suspect that it was most probably syphilitic), and accordingly iodide of potassium was given. The use of this remedy for two weeks exercised no effect on the ulcer. Microscopical examination of a piece cut away from the edge proved decidedly that it was not cancer. The application of caustic potash on two occasions had a better effect, and brought about partial healing, but soon afterwards the ulceration resumed its former aspect. He suffered now from nocturnal fever aud bronchial catarrh. The patient left unimproved, became terribly emaciated, and died a few months later of tuberculosis of the lungs. Paresis after ligature of the common carotid artery. M. M , set. 24, was brought to the hospital, when 17 years of age, for a naso-pharyngeal polypus. This was removed with the galvanic wire loop. Two years later it returned. The tumour, which was situated also in the ptery- goid fossa, was then again removed with the knife. Teu days after the operation severe haemorrhage occurred, probably from the internal maxillary artery. For this the left common carotid was ligatured. Almost immediately after the operation the patient had pain about the forehead, and dilatation of both pupi s, piincipally of the left, with partial loss of power in the right hand. A lew hours after the operation speech was lost. On the second day right paraplegia was noticed ; bed-sores followed in several parts. Five weeks later le con 1 ion was as lollows : On the right side paralysis of motion, sensation norma ; no facial paralysis; the pupils contracted slowly to light; the tongue cou u, we protruded ; speech imperfect, and articulation defective. Urine aud laces passed involuntarily.