RECENT MODIFICATIONS IN OPERATING. 318 found again quite loose, either because much of the serum has been pressed out of the stump, or because some fragments of the fibroma which may possibly lie in the stump are drawn forward to the cut surface. The chain must then be reapplied, but this should not be done with such force as to separate the peritoneal covering, or severe venous hemorrhage might ensue, which it would be very troublesome to control. The safest plan would probably be to apply two ecra- seur chains one above the other, and then remove the lower one replacing it by a ligature. The ligatures would more easily be drawn sufficiently tight on the parts which had already been encir- cled, and then the upper chain might safely be removed. My only fear is, that by this method, the peritoneum might be torn in taking away the ecraseur chain, and fatal haemorrhage thus be caused. For the first trial of this method a case ought to be selected, in which, up to the point of applying the ecraseur chain, there had been no haemorrhage. In a case which recovered after operation (in May, 1877), a fistula between the abdominal wall and the vagina persisted for a long time, and mucous discharge flowed through the lower end of the healed cicatrix from the short open canal of the cervix. The fistula in this instance was closed by the energetic application of caustics, but in two similar cases, closure only took place after a long period. I am firmly convinced that when we have had wider experience of the practical details of the operation, and especially when we per- form laparo-hysterotomy in cases where the tumours have not been allowed to attain such enormous dimensions, the danger of the operation will be reduced and the results, as in ovariotomy, cannot fail to be better and better. Becent Modifications in Operating.1 (April, 1881.) Formerly, for laparotomies, thymol spray was used, but this was discontinued early in 1880. Professor Billroth now habitually operates without the spray. His present views on the subject of the spray will be found expressed in a contribution to v. Langen- 1 I am indebted to the kindness of Dr J. Mikulicz, assistant in Prof. Billroth’s clinic, for the informunion here given.—[Ed.]