56 SYPHILOMA—TUBERCULAR ULCERATION OF TONGUE. of a reddish-blue colour; a lymphatic gland, the size of a hazel-nut, could be felt in front of the left ear. Over the whole body, was seen a distinct, well- marked roseola; no fever. The infiltration in the eyelid was considered by some of my colleagues to be cancerous. I did not share this opinion, but at first could not form any diagnosis. Prom the skin disease, and later on from other conditions which assisted our diagnosis, we concluded that the swelling of the eyelid was of syphilitic origin, although no syphilitic infection could be proved. In the sequel, the case became very complicated. At the outset, iodide of potassium was given internally. In three weeks the infiltration of the eyelid had nearly disappeared. A few days later, the child was attacked with severe symptoms of meningitis, with vomitings, cramps, and finally com- plete coma. The case seemed desperate; ice was applied, and large doses of calomel given. About the fifth day of the disease consciousness returned, and gradual recovery ensued. When the patient was discharged, a fortnight later, at the wish of his parents, the exanthem had disappeared, and only a slight swelling of the eyelid was perceptible. I am unable to say whether further symptoms of syphilis followed later on. S, C—, set. 2 6, was received as an out-patient with a tumour, con- nected to the septum narium. The growth was of soft, elastic consistence, almost fluctuating, and had the circumference of a small walnut. Under the impression that it might be a cyst, I punctured it with a fine knife, but only blood was let out. I concluded then that it was a sarcoma, and the patient was admitted for operation. On further examination an extensive brownish exanthem was found over the whole body, and enlargement of the cervical glands. In answer to inquiries, he stated that some years previously he had had a chancre. Antisyphilitic remedies were now employed, since it seemed in the highest degree probable that the tumour on the nose might be a. syphiloma. The patient, however, was attacked with erysipelas starting from the little puncture on the nose, and died of pyaemia. Post mortem: the tumour of the nose was scarcely perceptible, as it had disappeared during the erysipelas. Nothing further was found to clear up the diagnosis. Tubercular nodules and ulceration of the tongue. Both the following cases presented great difficulties in diagnosis. J. M—, set. 53, had suffered for six months from dry cough and nocturnal sweats, with occasional slight haemoptysis. Six weeks previous to admission he had noticed, in the middle line of the upper surface of the tongue, a nodule, the size of a pea. This sometimes was very painful, and had gradually in- creased up to admission. It was then the size of a hazel nut and the mucous membrane covering it was fissured. The majority of those who saw the case considered it to be a syphiloma. The administration of iodide of potassium in moderate doses for three weeks had absolutely no effect on the growth. I then concluded it might be a carcinoma, and removed it. The wound healed rapidly, but the patient died three weeks