315 METHOD OF OPERATING. torn surface of the layers of the uterus, covering a fibroma, is usually very severe, and will not readily cease spontaneously. Such rents can seldom be ligatured; it is not possible to say how long the operation may last, and the patients may lose much blood before the uterus can be encircled by a ligature. In one case, before I had learned this by experience, I proceeded to deal with some very extensive soft adhesions on the posterior surface just as I should have in an ovarian tumour, that is to say, I scooped the tumour out with my hand. The haemorrhage was most formidable; in order at least to stop the bleeding from this huge tumour, I made two of my assistants lift it up, and then placed an ecraseur chain round it below. This was done with the more rapidity inasmuch as the mesentery from which I had separated the tumour was also bleeding furiously. As I removed the tumour above the ecraseur chain, I inadvertently cut off a portion of the bladder which was closely united to the fibroma at the upper part. Having controlled the haemorrhage, a second ecraseur chain was applied over the bladder close to the edge of the cut surface, and then the upper portion of the bladder was separated from the tumour. In doing this, troublesome haemorrhage again occurred. The tumour was then removed at the level of the first ecraseur chain. The patient left the operation table alive, but died two hours after. As in ovarian tumours, so also in fibroma of the uterus, broad adhesions in the true pelvis are most to be dreaded. Such a case occurred to me in 1877. The bleeding was almost beyond control, but still the patient survived it, though she died a day later of septic peritonitis. It is of paramount importance to exercise the greatest possible caution, therefore, in dealing with adhesions in these cases. If the uterus together with the fibroma be free, I ligature the broad ligaments on either side with two strong threads, and if pos- sible, do this in such a way that the ovaries and Fallopian tubes remain connected with the tumour. I use these ligatures double, and tie them with all my might, and then cut through between them; sometimes these are the only parts ligatured in the whole operation. The large vessels, which are secured in this way seem formidable, but rapidly collapse after the deligation. Now, the tumour, together with the uterus, being slightly raised by an assistant, and the upper part of the abdominal wound being firmly closed, how are we to proceed ? I am, like Pdan, in favour of