110 CANCER OP MUCOUS MEMBRANE, ETC. movable on the upper jaw. The tumour, which proved to he an encapsuled Cystic myxo-sarcoma, was shelled out without the removal of any part of the bone. Recovery followed. Four years later the patient was in good health, though the tumour recurred shortly after the operation and became ulcerated, without, however, augmenting to any great extent. Infiltrated sarcoma. F. S—, set. 40, fell, when twenty years of age, on to the right side of his face. Considerable swelling occurred, which never entirely disappeared but gradually went on to the formation of a slow growing tumour. Four yearn after its origin v. Pitlia removed the growth, resecting at the same time the whole thickness of the jaw. The patient then remained wel 1 for sixteen years; then a new tumour occurred in the portion of the right side of the jaw which had been left, and in six weeks had attained the size of the fist, causing very severe pain. The growth was removed, and the portion of the jaw cxarticulated. Convalescence was rapid, but recurrence soon took place again. The growth was again removed, but once more the tumour recurred and carried off the patient, a year and two months after the commencement of the second growth. Cancer op the Mucous Membrane and adjoining Organs— Salivary Glands, Tongue, and Cavity of the Nose. Anatomical investigations have led me to the conclusion, that cancer of the upper jaw and the cavity of the nose mostly originates in the follicles of the mucous membrane of the antrum, nasal cavities, palate, or gums. In the lower jaw it is easy by observations on patients to show that the disease starts from the lip, the mucous membrane of the mouth, the tongue, or the parotid gland, and spreads over on to the bone. I have never seen, hitherto, a genuine primary cancer of the lower jaw. It is a remark- able fact that the soft medullary cancers of the upper jaw and the cavity of the nose very rarely affect the lymphatic glands of the neck. Even when the glands are attacked it occurs very late; this may partly be explained by the anatomical conditions. Perhaps the mucous membrane of the nose and antrum is poorly supplied with lymphatics. As yet we do not know much about this. With respect to the etiology, I have already stated that I entirely acknowledge the influence of local irritations on the origin of cancer; still I am of opinion that such irritation only then leads to the formation of a tumour, or to the direct development of cancer, if