142 SUPPURATION AND CASEATTON OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. from failure of the heart can be to some extent explained on ana- tomical and physiological grounds. Of the twenty-two cases mentioned above, in thirteen tracheotomy was performed for oedema of the glottis, originating from various causes; one was a case of fracture of the laryngeal cartilages, and in eight laryngotomy was performed for great dyspnoea, the result of bronchocele. Tracheotomy was performed also in eighteen cases of croup, with two recoveries; one of these patients died of inanition a few weeks after the canula was removed. These cases were met with between i860 and 1876. Section B.—Diseases oe the Lymphatic Glands. Simple enlargements—Operative treatment. Chronic lymphadenitis and lymphoma. Medullary lymphoma and lympho-sarcoma. Case of primary (?) epithelial cancer of glands. Of 145 cases of simple hyperplastic suppurating and caseating glands, 87 occurred between the ages of eleven and twenty. The preponderating frequency with which the disease occurs at this period of life is very striking. Formerly I thought that the so- called strumous enlarged glands were especially common in children, and were connected with the second dentition. This, however, can have no great influence, for the permanent teeth have mostly made their appearance when the patients have entered their second decennium. The prognosis in this complaint is, for many reasons, an unfavourable one; in the first place, we must con- fess that we possess no specific to bring about resorption of the simplest, purely hyperplastic, glandular enlargements. Still less do we know of any remedy which can obviate caseation or suppuration. Many of these swellings come and go without its being possible to assign any reason, either for the one or the other process. In one case, cold douches; in another, iodides; in a third, the use of mineral or salt-water baths; in yet others, strapping is said to have caused improvement or recovery. At times startling cures result from these remedies. Yet the surgeon should not be blamed if he frequently fails to achieve anything of the sort. 1 do not