]22 COMPARISON OF TUMOURS OF UPPER AND LOWER JAW. Tumours of the Lower and Upper Jaw. It is interesting to compare the relative frequency of diseases occurring in the upper and lower jaw. In the upper jaw, cystic tumours are more common. Epulis-sarcoma occurs equally in both. The encapsuled form of central osteo-sarcoma is peculiar to the lower jaw. On the whole, the development of sarcoma is somewhat more common in the lower jaw, though not markedly so. My numbers are too small to allow me to make any positive statements on this point. Cases of infiltrated and periosteal sarcoma of the jaws are very unfavourable, for the patients usually die early of recurrence of the growth. The duration of life in these cases varies from nine months to two years. Operations for sarcoma of the lower jaw are more dangerous than in the upper. Spindle-celled sarcoma of the nose. A. S—, set. 63, came under treatment in November, 1870. His previous bealth bad been good, but nine months before admission the left nasal cavity became blocked up, as if be bad a bad cold. For six months bleeding bad at times occurred from the nose, and the left half of the organ was pushed to one side by a tumour developing within the cavity. Caustics bad been applied unsuccessfully. From time to time small portions of the tumour came away. When I saw him the left nasal cavity was completely filled up by a tumour, which bad a pedunculated attachment to the mucous membrane of the septum. The nose was slit up and the tumour removed, together with a portion of the septum. In April, 1871, he came back to me with a recurrence of the growth, which filled up the left nasal cavity and infil- trated the skin of the nose. The submaxillary lymphatic glands were enlarged and soft. The tumour was removed, but it recurred, and a few months later had again filled up the cavity, while the neck was extensively invaded by malignant deposit. The disease lasted altogether a year and a half. The growth proved to be a soft spindle-celled sarcoma. K. S—, fet 9. In July, 1877,1 removed with the galvano-caustic dcraseur some fibro-sarcomatous polypi from the nose. Some polypi remained behind, which were extracted a month later, after the nose had been previously slit up. Two months later osteoplastic resection of the upper jaw was found necessary, in order to remove some fresh growths. These were excised and the surface cauterised. Numerous tumours were found attached by broad bases, so that it was not possible to be certain at the operation whether all the small remnants adhering to the bone were removed. A few weeks after