135 PAPILLARY CANCER OP TRACHEA REMOVAL. I introduced my little finger rapidly down the trachea and could just reach a small tumour with the tip of it. With along-handled, curved, sharp-edged spoon I was lucky enough to detach and draw out the tumour at the first attempt. The haemorrhage from the trachea was not great and ceased spon- taneously. In case severe hsemorrhage had arisen I was provided with a thick elastic catheter, which I intended to introduce into the right bronchus, so as, at any rate, to enable the patient to breathe with the right lung until the haemorrhage ceased. On recovering from the anaesthetic, the patient was able to breathe perfectly freely, and there was no need to introduce a canula. The tracheal wound healed up in twelve days. Microscopical examination of the tumour, which was about the size of a bean, showed it be a highly vascular papilloma, formed of granulation tissue covered by a thick layer of epithelium. It was con- nected by a narrow pedicle to a part of one of the tracheal cartilages. I was inclined to fear that recurrence would take place, although experience does not show that papillomata deep down in the trachea are often the starting- points of carcinomata. Three months later the difficulty of respiration again occurred, followed by tracheal catarrh and hoarseness. When he came back to me in June, 1877, paralysis of the right vocal cord was found, and some small reddish growths deep down in the trachea. We could only suppose that the paralysis was caused by some tumour, possibly an infiltrated lymphatic gland, which we • could not feel, pressing upon the right recurrent nerve. In July, 1877, I performed the same operation as on the previous occasion. Some difficulty was experienced in exposing the trachea, for the cicatrix was not easily separated. On introducing my finger I found that there was a considerable growth on the original site, but besides tins the right side of the trachea at the level of the manubrium stemi was much compressed by a firm mass. A very long canula was left in the trachea; I felt certain now that the stenosis of the trachea and the dyspnoea were caused by cancerous infiltration of the deep glands; the prognosis, therefore, seemed to me devoid of hope. However, during the next few weeks the patient improved in a remarkably satisfactory way. We tiled for a long time to find a form of tube through which the patient might breathe freely, and at the same time be able to raise the sputa. Finally, at Professor Stork’s suggestion, a valvular apparatus was made, which was attached to the canula anteriorly, so that the patient could breathe freely and speak through the tube, without being per- petually compelled to keep his finger on the opening. A still further unlooked-for improvement took place, for the voice became perfectly clear and the paralysis of the vocal cords disappeared. After a time the voice became as strong and resonant as ever it was, so that as an orator lie could have filled the largest room. This result is difficult of explanation. The tumour, which had appeared at the right side of the neck, and was somewhat painful on