188 LATERAL CURVATURE. felt and embarrassment experienced when such cases are afterwards met with in private practice. I tried to obviate this clinical defect, as far as possible, by constantly talking about the causes and treat- ment of commencing lateral curvature. As for the numerous cases which I have met with in private practice, they were commonly lost sight of after they had consulted me once or twice. If the complaint does not improve in the course of a few months, or if I am compelled to say that the necessary treatment may last perhaps a year or more, they go on from one surgeon to another, until they discover one who takes a more hopeful view of their case. Advice and prescriptions are far more agreeable to the patients and their parents than innumerable rules and regulations as to diet and gymnastics. Such treatment becomes costly and troublesome, and swallows up, perhaps, all the means of the family to comparatively little purpose. In Vienna, it is not possible to keep these children in orthopaedic establishments under J 200 or 1500 florins a year (from £115 to £140), and if the necessary orthopaedic treatment has to be kept up for two or three years, most families would hesitate before they laid out so large a sum for the benefit of one of their children, when perhaps the ■entire family live in some little town and have no more than an annual income of 800 florins. In my private practice, I see annually a great many girls affected with lateral curvature, but I fear that all my powers of persuasion are unable to induce perhaps more than one annually to enter one of these gymnastic institutions. Seldom can a positive answer be returned in the affirmative, to the question, “ After all this trouble, can you promise complete recovery within two years ?” In the majority of cases we can only promise that, at any rate, matters will not be made worse; the laity are little able to understand how much worse the condition might become, for the disease can be but seldom attended with any danger to life. These questions and arguments one way and another are interminable. Should a case •remain stationary and the curvature grow no worse, as frequently happens, then we hear said, “ We see these surgeons exaggerate the whole matter—the fact is, they know but little about it, etc.” We can only then, advise what we consider to be best on physiological —and empirical—grounds.