364 CHRONIC MALIGNANT ONYCHIA. was discharged unimproved. I saw her three years afterwards and no alteration had taken place in her condition. Chronic Malignant Onychia. This disease as we see it, almost invariably occurs in children^ and commences with slight inflammation about the matrix of the nail. Instead of healing, it gradually goes on to slowly pro- gressing ulceration, either beneath or in the neighbourhood of the nail, and is accompanied by great swelling, redness, and pain. It appears probable that the malignant character of the affection is due essentially to neglect of the small wound at the outset. The slow progress of the disease results from the difficulty in getting rid of the poisonous agent (perhaps very minute organisms which have become charged with infective material). The chronic course of the disease, and sometimes its very appearance, cause it to resemble strongly syphilitic ulceration of the finger. Onychia maligna, too, has many points of similarity to diphtheritic ulceration, and I am not entirely averse to considering the affection as a peculiar kind of diphtheritic ulceration; it should be, however, remarked, that onychia maligna is never phagedsenic and that hardly any of the diseased parts are lost. In this respect, there- fore, it has no relationship with other forms of diphtheritic inflam- mations of wounds, least of all with hospital gangrene, notwith- standing that externally the processes seem to be so similar. The disease frequently originates spontaneously, perhaps from some unnoticed excoriation or little fissure about the nail. In one of my cases, the disease was supposed to have originated from a blow on the finger with a schoolmaster’s cane a year previously. Yanzetti, in his classical work on this disease, has pointed out to us an excellent remedy; this consists of powdered nitrate of lead, which should be dusted over the finger, and kept in position with a dry bandage and strapping. In from five to ten days the dressing should be removed, and a crust will then probably separate, exposing a healthy, granulating surface, which will usually heal under some simple dressing. The newly-formed nail is commonly irregular at first, but in course of time resumes its natural shape.