438 ANKYLOSIS 01? KNEE : FORCIBLE EXTENSION. be possible to restore some slight degree of mobility by breaking down the ankylosis. It appeared to me, that the ankylosis was essentially due to adhesions of the synovial folds. Accordingly the patient was placed under chloroform, and I thoroughly broke down the ankylosis on both sides. The right leg, previously straight, I was able to Ilex to a right angle, while the left limb could he brought per- fectly straight; the left leg was then put up in plaster, and the right in a splint, and ice applied. All pain soon subsided, and after ten days I com- menced gentle passive movements in the right knee. At first the pain was very severe, but it became less every day. Fourteen days after the extension, I removed the plaster bandage, and commenced passive movements on the left leg. Four weeks after the operation, slight active movement com- menced ; I then sent the patient to Ragatz. A few months later I saw him again ; he could then walk without tlio aid of a stick, could extend the knees completely and flex them nearly to a right angle. When the patient left the hospital the first time, loud friction sounds could be heard in the joint, but when he made his second visit, these had almost entirely disappeared. Success like this can only be attained when little or no alteration lias taken place in the cartilages. The case strikingly illustrates the brilliant results obtainable by forcible extension under an anaesthetic. Had it not been for this treatment, the knees, most undoubtedly, would have continued stiff. Ankylosis of the knee ; forcible extension ; gangrene of the leg\ F. A—, set. 29, a weakly, anaemic woman, was admitted with the knee- joint flexed at so acute an angle that the heel was almost in contact with the nates ;Hhe leg was rotated inwards, and the patella displaced somewhat out- wards ; the condition was probably due to metastatic inflammation of the joint of puerperal origin. Under an anaesthetic, the limb was forcibly extended. The thin skin over the popliteal space was lacerated during the extension and left a gap three inches wide. No further attempt at exten- sion was made, and the limb still flexed at an acute angle, was put up in plaster; the foot was cold and devoid of sensation. On the following day the plaster bandage was removed ; the patient had much pain in the leg, and gradually well marked gangrene became evident. The thigh was ampu- tated, and the patient died. On examining the amputated limb, both the popliteal artery and vein wero found to bo lacerated. Cicatricial contraction of the knee-joint. L. R—, set. 21, had suffered from syphilis eight yearn previously. He had ulceration about the back, the upper arm, and the forehead. Under