450 MELANOMA. PULSATING SARCOMA. with the rete Malpighii are met with of such typically adenoid form that they seem to be a combination of epithelial cancer and sarcoma. In the case given below there would have been no doubt, had the cells of the invading epithelial growths possessed the ordinary flat shape or that of the cells of the rete Malpighii. This, however, was not the case; some of the epithelial cells were cylindrical, others of irregular shape. I am doubtful, therefore, as to the proper position of these growths, but am inclined to consider them as sarcomata, since the new formation invariably arises in the papillary layer of the cutis. J. S—, set. 56. From childhood he had had a wart about the size of a pea on the left leg; the growth was situated ou a dark pigmented patch, the size of a farthing. When he was fifty-five years of age, this wart began, from no obvious cause, to grow, and within two months had attained the size of a walnut. Then numerous bluish and dark spots and little nodules developed in the primary tumour. The original growth was re- moved by means of a ligature, hut this had no effect on the progress of the secondary growths. The patient’s health was always good, though he was not a'remarkably strong man. The integument of the anterior part of the leg was diseased over an extent of the size of a man’s hand. The man suffered much pain, and was very anxious for an operation; the inguinal glands were not enlarged. I removed the whole of the diseased integument; the patient left in a few months, before the wound had completely healed. Even then, however, some fresh nodules were visible in the immediate neighbourhood of the cicatrix; their number increased, severe pain occurred in the breast and back, and he died twelve months later. Duration of the disease two years. Pulsating sarcoma of the tibia. H. R,—, set. 26, a cobbler. For some months a tumour had been developing at the lower end of the tibia. The hone was considerably widened in appear- ance. I resected a portion of the tibia, about three inches in length, including the articular cartilage of the ankle. Gangrene of the foot followed, and he died of pyaemia in six weeks. The growth proved to be a vascular, central osteo-sarcoma. Herr B—, set. 29. For two years he had noticed a painful swelling of the tibia, especially at the lower part, and had been unable to get about. He had never had syphilis. I found in the medullary cavity of the tibia a diffused growth expanding the cortical substance of the bone to some extent. At the lower part the tibia was enormously expanded, yielding parchment crackling as the thinned plates of bone gave on pressure. At this part too there was distinct pulsation and an nneurismnl friction bruit. The leg was amputated just below the knee. Death in six days from septicremia.