DISLOCATION OF HUMERUS. 353 Paralysis and atrophy after dislocation of humerus. A man, jet. 40, who had dislocated his right humerus nine months pre- viously, came to the hospital with complete paralysis of the forearm and commencing atrophy. By means of Schneider-Mennel’s apparatus reduction was effected, hut the arm remained as before, completely paralysed as regards sensation and motion. Probably the brachial plexus had become adherent to the dis- located head of the humerus, and was torn in effecting reduction. It is, I think, better in such cases not to attempt reduction, but to excise the head of the humerus, as has been done successfully by von Langenbeck, in cases of paralysis from pressure. H. H—, set. 51. The previous history of this highly exceptional case is unfortunately very incomplete. The patient was attacked with a rigor, and at the same time with swelling and redness of the whole right arm, so that it was not possible to examine the shoulder minutely. I suspected acute cellulitis, perhaps accompanied with thrombosis of the axillary vein, since the subcutaneous veins of the shoulder were much distended. Under the application of mercurial ointment and ice, the tumefaction of the arm sub- sided, except about the shoulder, where fluctuation soon after became evident. The skin remained red, the febrile symptoms increased, and the pain in the swelling persisted. There seemed, then, no doubt that a large abscess had formed, and I waited for it to open spontaneously; this, however, did not take place, and eventually (about forty days after the commencement of the symptoms) I made an incision close under the acromion. No pus came, but about a pint of turbid, serous fluid escaped, containing flakes of fibrine. On introducing my finger, I found a large cavity lined by smooth membrane, at the bottom of which the head of the humerus could be felt, dislocated forwards and inwards. As suppuration in the cavity seemed now inevitable, I made a second incision, near the pectoral muscle, and passed in a drainage tube, bringing it out at the first opening. Severe febrile symptoms ensued with rigors, and he died of pyaemia three weeks later. Post mortem: the dislocated head of the humerus was found completely atrophied and covered by papillary osteophytes. It articulated with a false socket, formed between the glenoid fossa of the scapula and the ribs. I am at a loss for an explanation of a case sucli as this; at any rate, an immense synovial cyst, which perhaps had extended through the capsule of the joint, lay around the luxated head of the humerus. But how had the dislocation taken place ? The patient had given no 23