CALCULUS VESICAL LITHOTEITY. 273 Calculus vesica. A man, rnt. 63, was admitted in a condition of marasmus, with great haematuria. He died from perforation of the bladder, and cystitis. Thtv bladder contained a calculus, in the centre of which was found a piece of rolled-up newspaper. Death after lithotrity. L. M—, at. 24, had a rather hard stone in the bladder, measuring two and a half by three and a half centimetres. After the first sitting, numerous sharp-edged fragments were passed. The bladder contracted spasmodically on the instmment, and occasioned so much pain that an anaesthetic was given. Even when he was completely narcotised, the spasms still occurred. The evening after the second sitting, the patient suffered most intense pain; symptoms of cystitis and peritonitis developed, and he died two days later. At the post mortem the wall of the bladder was found obliquely perforated, close to the neck. The shape of the opening showed clearly that it had not been caused by the lithotrite; I think it could only have been due to a sharp fragment of the calculus, pressed against the wall during a spasmodic con- traction of the bladder. A calamity of this nature—one that may arise whenever the stone is hard—should remind us that lithotrity is not perfectly free from risk, even when the utmost caution is exercised. Still, such occur- rences are not of sufficient frequency to interfere with the favourable prognosis which can be given in lithotrity as against lithotomy. The case showed further, that even deep anaesthesia is not always sufficient to obviate spasmodic action of the bladder. In this patient the contraction was so strong, that I found it impossible to move the instrument. All my cases (eleven) of lithotrity at Vienna, during 1868, reco- vered with one exception. This was a man, in whom a fragment of stone became impacted at the neck of the bladder, and led to inflammation around the organ and peritonitis. In a child six years old, lithotrity had to be abandoned, on account of the im- paction of the calculus in the urethra. The patient recovered after lateral lithotomy. Some further statistics of lithotrity and lithotomy are to be found in the ' Wien. Bericht/ 1869-70, p. 198. 18