354 IRREDUCIBLE DISLOCATIONS OP HUMERUS. account of any injury, yet lie must have sustained one a long time previously ; or was the condition the effect of an arthritis deformans ? Such a result must he very rare. Unfortunately, the records of this case give no information as to whether there had been any previous disease or injury about the shoulder. Irreducible dislocation of the shoulder of five weeJcs’ standing. Cecilie H—, set. 53, was admitted for a sub-coracoid dislocation of the humerus, the result of an injury five weeks previously. A medical man who saw the case at the time supposed that he had effected redaction under an anaesthetic. Every new—and old—method was tried in turn without success. Finally, we were forced to desist owing to considerable swelling of the arm. Within a couple of weeks the extravasation and swelling had disappeared, and the movement of the arm was then more free than on admission, which was probably due to our having broken down some adhesions. Irreducible dislocation of the shoulder of six weeks’ standing. Dominic F—, set. 33, was admitted with the following history:—Six weeks previously he fell from a cart on to his right shoulder. He went to a medical man, who diagnosed a fracture of the humerus, and applied splints. Five weeks after the injury a surgeon discovered that the arm was dislocated, and endeavoured in vain, with the aid of three strong men, to reduce it. On admission the head of the humerus could be felt in the axilla; the move- ments of the arm were tolerably free. It was found impossible to reduce the dislocation although the methods of von Pitha, Schinzinger, Heine, etc., were tried in turn. Twelve days later a further attempt was made with the Schneider-Mennel’s apparatus, and still more force employed. Even this was in vain, and the man left with the dislocation unreduced. The following case, in which reduction was effected, is worthy of mention, on account of the complete paralysis of the upper extremity: Antoine M—, at. go, fell from a height of about twelve feet on to his outstretched left arm. Two days later he came to the hospital; the head of the humerus could be felt in the axilla, and was reduced with the greatest ease. The arm was put up in the ordinary way in a mitella. The pain soon subsided, but as the patient was unable to move the arm he came back twelve days after the injury. Sensation and motion were lost in the arm