OVARIOTOMY. 303 most frequently in dermoid cysts, but may take place also in colloid growths, as the result, perhaps, of twisting of the pedicle. The same result may follow frequently repeated puncture, tapping, or draiuing. Those who look only to good statistical results, might leave such patients to die without operating; yet ovariotomy (perhaps sometimes free incision) is the sole means by which these lives can be saved. Out of three such cases I was successful in one instance. The operation was followed by numerous abscesses and convalescence was very tedious. The cysts will usually be almost universally adherent; at times, too, foul pus will be found in the meshes of the loose adhesions, so that matters can hardly be expected to progress smoothly. The temperature of the operating-room was always kept at about 8o° Fahr. This is a point of importance for cases in which numerous adhesions or free haemorrhage prolong the operation, and where there is fear of anaemia and collapse. It was formerly thought of great importance to make the incision as small as possible. True, it is always desirable, if possible, to draw out the entire cyst and its pedicle through an incision some three inches in length, but this very rarely happens. I find that an incision extending perhaps a couple of inches above the umbilicus, does not in itself materially increase the risk, and it may be of the greatest importance with regard to the further steps of the opera- tion. Undoubtedly, if a large incision be made, skilful assistance is necessary to prevent the prolapse of the intestines. These should be kept back by gentle pressure with large sponges. Formerly, when I thought it of importance to make the incision as small as possible, I was accustomed to introduce my hand and separate the adhesions as far as possible, before puncturing the cyst, so that the vessels in the torn adhesions might contract with the abdominal walls after the evacuation of the cyst. In most of the cases this plan succeeded very well, but at times, a large amount of blood escaped into the abdominal cavity, and it then became very difficult to find the bleeding spots and to ligature them through the small opening. The development of large colloid tumours or cystomata massed together may entail most serious difficulties; sometimes puncture at numerous points is of service, but if nothing flows out through the cannula, cither the incision must be extended far above the umbilicus,