S34 PULSATING SAECOMA OP PELVIS. myself that the intra-pelvic tumour had the same connections as the cor- responding growth on the outer side. The external tumour, however, seemed to consist entirely of bluish white cartilage, while the inner growth was cystic in nature and broke up in my hand ; the remnants of the cyst were removed by cutting-forceps and the knife, the loose fragments being easily withdrawn from the pelvis. The haemorrhage was moderate in amount, and no collapse followed after the operation, which had succeeded beyond all expectation, but after the first forty-eight hours, the amount of foul sup- puration from the pelvis became enormous ; no antiseptics were of any avail; the youth and strength of the patient alone enabled him to resist the septic infection up to the seventh day, when he sank and died. Duration of the disease from first to last, about four years. Pulsating sarcoma of the pelvis. PI—, set. 47, stated that she was the mother of five children. She had had two miscarriages, but her last confinement—about four years before her admis- sion had been natural and easy. Three years previously, she noticed occa- sional pain in the right hip, and some twelve months later a tumour appeared in this region; the pain increased, and she had more and more discomfort in walking. For some little time previous to admission she had lost flesh and strength. I found a tumour, larger than a man’s head, more or less spherical and of smooth surface, occupying the position of the right innominate bone. The tumour was of elastic consistence in most parts, and a distinct thrill could be felt and a harsh bruit heard, synchronous with the heart sounds. No operation was admissible, and the patient died four years after the com- mencement of the disease.1 Frau TI—, set. 46, stated that about a year before her admission, in attempting to save herself from a fall, she strained herself severely in the neighbourhood of the right hip. She always had pain in walking after this, and about four months later, noticed a gradually increasing swelling of the right iliac crest. The difficulty in walking and the pain increased. Fourteen days before I saw her she had bad a fall on the affected side, and since that time had no longer been able to support herself on her right leg. The patient was a slight, spare, pale woman. The entire right half of the pelvis was pushed forward ; parchment crackling could be felt over the thinned bony plates. The tumour could be traced deeply down into the pelvis ; the whole tumour pulsated, and an aneurismal bruit was audible in it. The size and extent of the growth were such that there seemed to be no hope of success- fully removing it; the patient died about twenty months after the com- mencement of the disease. Guiseppe L—, ml. 43, an Italian miner, of small weakly frame, stated 1 On the occasional difficulty of diagnosis in these cases see a valuable paper by Holmes “On the Diagnosis of Aneurism” (‘St. George’s Hospital Deports,’ vol. vii, p. X73)* [Em]