70 RATIONALE OP OPERATIVE TREATMENT. thought irrational to undertake any operation in order to relieve a disease of which we do not understand the cause, yet, further, where we cannot predict with any certainty whether any benefit will follow from the operation, and how long, if improvement does so follow, it is likely to last. Nevertheless I am convinced that these operations, which are seldom dangerous, cannot be avoided in the • case of these tortured patients. Often the effect of such operation is like that of tracheotomy on those who are in a state of suffoca- tatiou. Free these unfortunate creatures from the anxious strain of expecting at any moment this terrible pain, and their delight will soon show itself. They are full of gratitude for the operation, and •even if recurrence does take place they do not reproach the surgeon, as so many patients do when tumours recur; on the contrary, they almost invariably beg for further operation. I have often had occa- sion to insist with gentle earnestness on tentative treatment with the constant current. Many of the patients lost patience only too ■soon when it was tried; they come back to the surgeon after all remedies have been exhausted, with the rooted conviction that from division of the nerve alone can they obtain relief from their agonising pain. As a rule, I am much more opposed to operation than the patients are, for I recognise in operation only a last resource, and if this remedy can give no help there is nothing further to be done. Once, and once only, have I met with a patient who was so terrified at the thought of an operation that he could not persuade himself to have anything done. This was a man fifty years of age, but he looked as if he were seventy ; for fifteen years he had suffered from neural- gia of the mandibular nerve. I can see him now before me, ema- ciated to a skeleton, with a rigid, staring expression, with the saliva constantly dribbling from his open mouth, with white, neglected beard, and long unkempt hair. Morphia injections alone gave him brief intervals of relief, and these to be of any use had to be given in ever- increasing doses. Such was the end of a case describedabove; towards the end he was taking eighteen times a day twelve grains of morphia, until at last even the herculean frame of this man succumbed. Only those who have had no experience of the torments suffered by these unfortunates could condemn these patients to what is little better than a long-protracted suicide. Are we, by discarding operations for the division of nerves, to throw on one side a remedy which is not in itself attended by any serious risk ? Are we to renounce a remedy