EXAMINATION WITH NEEDLE IN ORBITAL TUMOURS. 117 were distinctly widened, especially externally. The tumour was not sensitive on pressure. Pricking sensations were felt in the tumour on touching or combing the right side of his head; no pain in the head ; general condition good. The tumour was removed from the orbit; this was followed by such bleeding and collapse that the patient’s life was with difficulty saved at the time. A few hours after the operation vomiting occurred, followed hy un- consciousness, and he died six days after the operation. Post mortem: extensive suppurative meningitis was found, especially on the right side. The tumour had broken into the orbit above, and on the inner side extended somewhat into the cavity of the skull and surrounded the atrophied optic nerve. The tumour proved to be a psammon-sarcoma (brain-sand tumour), possibly commencing from the sheath of the optic nerve. Ossifying periosteal sarcoma on the upper edge of the orhit. D. D—, set. 32. A year previously he noticed a tumour situated on the upper border of the orbit. It grew rapidly, pushed the eyeball forward to some extent, extended upwards on to the frontal bone, and was immovably connected to the skull. No headache or pain in the growth, which was of the size of a small apple. The operation which was undertaken for its removal was not completed; the tumour, which had penetrated into the cranial cavity, could not be separated away from the bone, and was only partly removed. Death followed after twenty-four hours, with the same symptoms as in the previous case. Post mortem: we found projecting into the ante- rior fossa of the skull a tumour the same size as that which was visible externally. These two cases afford a further illustration of the importance of puncturing with a grooved needle in cases of orbital tumours, so as to be to some extent sure that the bony walls of the orbit still exist. It may certainly be urged against this proceeding that if the bones were destroyed serious consequences would ensue if the needle were passed into the brain substance. But no great danger results from such an injury—at least, I know that in tumours of the bones of the skull I have often been sure that I have punctured the brain substance with the needle, but no harm has followed. I can only remember one case in my experience, in which an abscess of the brain was found after examination with the grooved needle; here, however there was no proof that the two were related as cause and effect. The case was that of an old woman, who had a large carcinoma on the forehead. The ulcerated surface was punctured on several occa- sions, and a gap in the frontal bone, the size of a five-shilling piece, detected. On discovering this von Langenbcck declined to operate. Cerebral symptoms occurred and the patient died some time later.