342 INJURIES OE THE HAND AND FINGERS. removed were softened, and tlieir cartilaginous covering almost completely destroyed, while the ligaments of the joints had degenerated into spongy granulation tissue. The operation at once exerted a most beneficial effect on his general condition. The febrile symptoms subsided, and the patient rapidly recovered. In about six months the sinuses closed, and he was able to use his hand for light work. When discharged he could flex and extend the hand and the first two phalangeal joints to some extent, and passive pro- and supination were permitted. The metacarpo-phalangeal joints were as before stiff, and allowed of very little movement. Contusion. Karl G—, art. 36, an ostler, received a kick from a horse on the right side of the breast and axilla. He was knocked down by the blow, hut did not lose consciousness, and was able to do light work for the next two days. He then applied for admission at the hospital, as the swelling began to increase. Over the right upper half of the chest, axilla, shoulder, and upper arm, the soft parts were indurated by phlegmonous infiltration, and in the deltoid region were numerous ecchymoses of the skin. No fracture could he made out; iodine was painted over the swelling, and ice applied. The same evening the patient sank into a semi-unoonscious state, with nocturnal delirium and picking at the bed clothes. Collapse set in, and he died seven days after the injury. At the autopsy sero-sanguineous infiltration of the subcutaneous and inter-cellular muscular tissue found over the right side of the thorax. In the cellular tissue of the axilla, and around the blood-vessels, were localised abscesses containing greenish-yellow pus ; the vessels themselves contained fluid blood. The brain, the cerebral membranes, and the lungs were congested; the liver fatty. Injuries of the Hand and Fingers. The various industries in the Canton Zurich brought a great number of these cases under observation, especially injuries from machinery. In almost all, treatment with the continuous water bath was adopted, the constant application of ice being sometimes substituted; amputation of the lingers was very rarely performed. I always allowed the gangrenous portions to separate of themselves, and the results of this conservative treatment were very satisfactory. At times fingers were thus preserved of which at first there seemed but little hope. A gii'l, ;et. 7, caught her loft hand botweon tho rollers of a machine. The skin was completely torn off tho hand up to a little above the wrist-joint.