15G •DISEASES OF THE THYROID BODY. in the neck and partly behind the right angle of the jaw. This had been preceded for some time by singing noises in the ear. For two months the growth had been increasing very rapidly in the neck, and caused difficulty of swallowing and breathing. The tumour filled up the right side of the cavity of the pharynx up to the velum, and extended from that point to the lower and back part of the angle of the jaw, at which latter point it bulged forward prominently. Operation appeared to me to be unadvisable. With a view to cause some shrinking of the growth a solution of carbolic acid (two grains to six drachms of water) was injected into the tumour at six different points; moderate reaction followed. Three days later the injection was repeated. The growth constantly enlarged, and four days after the last operation the difficulty of respiration was so great that laryngotomy was per- formed. Fluctuation was then distinct, both externally and internally. Severally incisions were made and some foul sanious pus evacuated. The growth shrank up so much subsequently that in three weeks the canula was removed and the patient could breathe freely through his larynx. He died four months later. The disease had lasted about a year. Primary epithelial cancer of glands. A man, set. 58, had a deep-seated epithelial cancer of the lymphatic glands on both sides of the neck. No peripheral disease could be clearly proved. The tumour was removed six months after it was first noticed. The internal jugular vein had to be ligatured. He died five days* after the operation of septic fever (infectionsfieb’er). Section C.—Diseases of the Thyroid Body. Various forms of bronchocele—Clinical and pathological charac- teristics. Cases of Ironchocele treated by puncture—by injec- tion of iodine—few,arks on 20 cases)—by chloride of zinc paste—by subcutaneous laceration—by tenotomy of slerno-mas- toul—by extirpation (remarks on 18 cases). Three cases oj extirpation of Ironchocele. Case of cyst bursting into pharynx. Cases of cyst treated by injection and incision. Cases of malig- nant bronchocele. Cases of abscess in thyroid. Case oj Ironchocele during pregnancy; tracheotomy. General remarks on treatment of bronchocele by iodine injections. Cases of softening of bronchocele. In connection with these cases, which will only be considered at present from an operative point of view, I must premise the