SPECIFIC NATURE OF ERYSIPELAS. 25 Possibly, also, the same agents may produce ordinary dermatitis, phlegmon, lymphangitis, or phlebitis, but unless altered, the mate- rial which sets up these forms of inflammation cannot also cause erysipelas, not even if it penetrates into the lymph capillaries, for, as stated above, the mere getting in is not of itself sufficient to set up the disease. The “ specific ” properties of whatever it is that causes the dis- ease must in this, as in many other cases, be of a purely physical and chemical nature. To my mind this does not interfere in any degree with the view that these phlogogenous bodies may be germs of a vegetable or animal nature; nay, rather, if we assume that the toxic material possesses infective power so prodigious as to exceed a millionfold the most potent inorganic poison, we are reduced to conclude that this poison spreads by some process aldn to fermen- tation. To some such view we are every day more and more impelled. The phlogogenous substance which, from somewhere or another, without any fresh injury, finds its way into the granulation tissue, thence into the lymphatic network of the cutis, therein diffuses and occasions constantly spreading inflammation, sets up, according to my view, erysipelas. Its “ specific” properties just depend upon the nature of its activity. That it does not penetrate into the deeper parts, and so set up lymphangitis, phlegmon, or phlebitis, may be explained by several hypotheses; perhaps it cannot pene- trate, or if it does, it may part with its phlogogenous properties during its passage from the superficial to the deep parts. These negative characteristics constitute, in part, the specific attributes o-f the poison. No doubt many surgeons will be little satisfied with this defini- tion of the term “ specific/’ All I mean is that such an explana- tion is possible, and does not run counter to facts; I freely admit my inability to prove that it must be so. There are those who stand rigidly by the orthodox doctrine, that there is one miasma for phlebitis, another for pyaemia, a third for erysipelas, a fourth for lymphangitis, etc., and that they must be inhaled or swallowed like other miasmata, all of which have certain common properties. Once introduced into the system, each, according to its own sepa- rate nature, selects a particular tissue or organ in which it carries on its mysterious work. (The so-called “ specific ” drugs are undoubtedly analogous in this respect.) To the disciples of this