193 CASES OF CHRONIC ABSCESS AND CARIES. As I was moving the fragments air entered the thorax with a hissing noise; the protruding portion of hone was then cut off, and the wound closed by a suture. Pneumothorax was immediately evident; the dyspnoea in- creased, and was soon followed by pleuritic effusion. The patient became very feverish, and was threatened with symptoms of suffocation. Paracentesis was performed with a trocar, without allowing any air to enter, but no improvement followed; the sutures gave way, and from the opened up wound an erysipelas ambulans started. Repeated rigors followed, and he died of pyaemia thirty-nine days after the injury, and twenty-two after the operation ; the latter undoubtedly was premature. Chronic periostitis and caries of the ribs. J. B—, aet. 29, was admitted with commencing tubercular disease of tbe lungs ; for eleven weeks he had had chronic abscesses in the neighbourhood of the right nipple, in front of the third right rib, and in the neck. In addi- tion to this there was a spontaneous fracture of the sixth right rib. C. P—, set. 53. In the course of three years a large chronic abscess had, without known cause of origin, developed on the right side of the back. He was admitted with a high degree of emphysema with bronchiectasis and pleu- ritic effusion on the left side; the breathing became gradually worse until be died of suffocation. Post mortem: bronchiectasis was found on both sides, empyema on the left side, communicating with the chronic abscess at the back part; a carious cavity in the sixth rib, and numerous osteophytes on the neighbouring ribs. Chronic abscess and caries of the thorax. J. Gr—, set. 37, had suffered for many years from pains in the back ; two years previously he had had a sharp attack of pleurisy. After he had recovered from this, a small tumour developed a little to the inner side of the left nipple. A few months later he had some severe pulmonary affection, followed by general dropsy ; from this he gradually recovered, and regained a tolerable amount of strength. When admitted, there was a swelling, the size of a hen’s egg, over the junction of the fourth rib with its cartilage. Distinct crepitus was perceptible between the cartilage and the bone. The swelling was tympanitic on percussion, and could be pressed back to some extent. Probably the case was one of circumscribed pneumothorax, i. e. an abscess cavity, which had burst into a bronchus. Posteriorly there was extensive dulness. I did not think it advisable to make an incision into the swelling and the patient was transferred to the physician. 13