279 LITHOLAPAXY. occurring in the fluids of the body, may become combined together and be insoluble, but may return again to a soluble state as the secretions and fluids alter. Physiological and pathological forma- tion and absorption of bone shows us that this can happen. Litholapaxy.1 With the general introduction of anaesthetics attempts to prolong the sittings in lithotrity went on hand in hand. Every one who has performed lithotrity knows that the operation has something exciting in it—almost like a hunt. The operator feels the stone and thinks he can seize it; it slips away, is again sought for, and so the process goes on. Under an anaesthetic the surgeon is able to work more quietly, and thus naturally was led to prolong the sittings. Another circumstance which tended to the same end was that, in recent times, attempts to remove the fragments directly after lithotrity had met with more and more success. This was accomplished by means of the so-called evacuation catheter which had large openings on the concavity, the convexity or the sides of the instrument; narcotism again, favoured this endeavour. Subsequently, special apparatus was made use of in order to suck out the fragments and the grit. With the help of technical improvements, it was no long stride from this stage to the present method of crushing the stone and removing it when possible, at a single sitting. Two years ago, an American surgeon, Bigelow, made known the method which he termed litholapaxy. Bigelow’s description must astonish every- body ; he speaks of successful lithotrities, in which the patients had been kept under a narcotic for three hours. The illustrious Thompson has lately developed this principle still further.2 3 ith regard to my own experience of lithotrity at a single sit- tmg, I have as yet only six cases to record; for a critical judgment of the method, the respective values of these cases differed, inasmuch as the stones varied much in size and hardness. The first crushing 1 From the ‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ No. 44, Oct., 1880, being an extract from a paper by Prof. Billroth, read before the K. Iv. Gesellschaft der Aerzte, in Vienna, on Oct. 22nd, 1880. 3 ‘ Practical Lithotomy and Lithotrity,’ 3rd Ed., 1880, p. 182.