TREATMENT OE ANGIOMA CAVERNOSUM. 89 years of age, in whom v. Pitha had, six years previously, cured a cavernous angioma by repeated injections with Liquor Perri. It was evident from the cicatrix that the growth must have extended over the left half of the nose up to the internal canthus. Unfortu- nately the eye had become completely amaurotic. An English surgeon informed me that a child, in whom he was treating an angioma of the cheek by the injection of Liquor Eerri, had died suddenly under his hands. Experiences such as these are sufficient to induce me to refrain from this plan of treatment in the neighbourhood of the face, head, and neck. Simple cauterisation with fuming sulphuric acid, can rarely be employed about the face to any great extent, on account of the great superficial contraction that follows. In one case, where I had destroyed a small 'teleangiectasis of the temporal region in this manner with complete success, the cicatrix preserved a deep, reddish-brown colour. Although the part was completely movable and the wrinkles in the skin were not inter- rupted on any slight movement, as for instance, in laughing, yet the red colour of the scar, which could not be completely removed by pressure, caused an unpleasant effect. Evidently there was some yellowish red pigment deposited in the cicatrix. The scar, which was only three-fourths of a centimetre in diameter, might easily have been cut out, but it disturbed the vanity of the youth too little to induce him to submit to its removal. I have never seen a similar result follow after cauterisation; the cicatrix, after the application of fuming nitric acid, often remains thick and rather painful for a long time, but this disappears after some months, and the cicatrices eventually become as white as in other cases. Time has strengthened the favourable impression which I formerly held with regard to the treatment by galvano-caustic puncture of diffused angiomata for which excision was unsuitable. It is very important to watch these cases closely while the sloughs are separating. At this time haemorrhage often occurs; care must be exercised, therefore, in treating out-patients by this method. One unfortunate child died from haemorrhage of this nature, for his neglectful parents did not send for a surgeon until the child had bled to death. In children who are carefully dressed every day in the clinic no bleeding of importance ever occurred. I think, there- fore, that there is no danger in sending the little patients home after cauterisation, provided they be enjoined to come up daily to