BACTERIA IN HEINE. 263 When the ammoniacal fermentation of the urine is got rid of we are able to see the true state of things. With it will disappear the ammonkeinia (evidenced by constant pain in the head, dryness of the tongue, nausea for food, especially for meat), constant tendency to micturate, hsematuria, diarrhoea, etc., all of which conditions I look upon as accidental complications in diseases of the urinary tract. The patients, as regards the urine, may be separated into two classes; in one set the urine will be almost perfectly clear, and a sharply-defined, viscid, clear yellow layer of pus will separate at the bottom of the urine glass. In another set of cases the urine does not become clear, but is more or less cloudy, even after it has stood for some days. Boiling seems at first to have no influence on it, but it usually becomes clear after a time if allowed to stand in the test tube after boiling. Treated with Liquor Potassse and boil- ing it clears at once. In turbid urine of this description, even when fresh, I invariably found bacteria, and can only ascribe the constant cloudiness to this cause. The sediment forms when the bacteria die, or when their vegetative power is exhausted. Por many years I had two such cases under almost constant treatment, and always found bacteria and turbidity, even when the urine was strongly acid. I employ the term “ bacteriahere in the true sense of the word. If these organisms are examined under a strong objective (Hartnak, No. io) they are seen as very pale, small, short, staff-shaped bodies; they are usually at rest and seldom attached in groups of three or four. They do not set up any ammoniacal fermentation. I almost doubt whether they are particularly injurious, for patients with cysto-pyelitis, whose urine is turbid and contains bacteria, have no more and no further troubles than patients similarly affected whose urine is clear. I cannot say for certain whether these bacteria become small streptococci from some accidental ammoniacal fermentation of the urine. The streptococci are always found in ammoniacal urine, but it has not, to my mind, been proved that they bring about the fermentation. Por the present we must be content with our knowledge of the fact that in constantly acid urine true bacteria may be seen together with pus corpuscles. It appears very difficult to destroy these bacteria in the urine. In none of the cases which I had under observation did they altogether disappear, though in some their numbers distinctly diminished under the administration of copaiba, benzoic