246 STRANGULATED HERNIA. CASE OP FVECAL FISTULA. the intestine after division of the abdominal ring and the neck of the sac; the intestine was then punctured, but still reduction could not be effected. On extending the incision upwards, the loop of intestine (csecum) was found twisted on its axis,- death followed. One well marked case of a so-called Littre's hernia was met with, and in one instance the hernia oonsisted of the bladder. We know only too well that, as a rule, people with strangulated hernia come too late to the hospital, even when they have had proper advice from their medical attendants. The usual practice at Zurich, in cases of strangulated hernia, is to place the patients at once in a warm bath, and keep them there for an hour; then they were placed under chloroform, and if taxis was unsuccessful, herniotomy was at once performed. In three cases only, out of seventeen operations for strangulated femoral hernia, was it found possible to reduce the hernia without opening the sac. Among the cases of recovery, an interesting instance is noted, where the Fallopian tube was found in the hernial sac on the right side. Fcecal fistula after operation for strangulated hernia. In the case of a man, set. 40, a faecal fistula formed, after operation for strangulated femoral hernia; the gut was found to he gangrenous, and a por- tion of the intestinal wall afterwards sloughed. In the course of the next three months the fistula diminished in size, but would not close. The faeces all passed through the fistula. Attempts to completely close the opening with a pad could not be borne for any length of time, and the bandage became detached by the forcible discharge at the end of twenty-four hours. On exa- mination, a valvular formation was found on the posterior wall of the intes- tine, and above this, marked stenosis where the gut had been partly destroyed. My assistant, Dr. Ris, devised a most ingenious apparatus, whereby the protruding fold was so pushed back that the faeces, in part, were able to pass through the rectum. Further than this I could not get by the employment of this apparatus. I dilated the fistula with laminaria and divided Poupart’s ligament in order to be able to ascertain the condition of the parts as clearly as possible, but I could not succeed sufficiently to be able to apply the enterotome with proper certainty. I had a suspicion that the fistula was con- nected with the sigmoid flexure, since the faeces were not of the consistence which might be expected if they came from the small intestine. In order to ascertain the time that it would take for some injected milk to pass, we threw in some with a catheter into what we supposed was the lower portion of the intestine. An hour afterwards the whole of the milk was passed by the ure- thra. Now, on examining the bladder, we found that there was a vesical,