PROGRESS OF SECOND CASE. 50G superficial occlusion sutures were applied (Plate III, fig. 3 n) ; then the organ being completely divided through its lesser curvature, the lumen ‘a’ (Plate III, fig. 4), was left; the duodenum was next partly cut through, and the Lembert’s sutures (l, l, l) inserted; the duodenum was now completely severed, and the tumour removed. The other “ ring sutures ” were inserted and the threads (l) tied ; no difficulty was found in drawing the stomach over to the duodenum. The total number of sutures inserted was fifty-eight. As shown in Plate III, fig. 5, a diverticulum (0) formed at the greater curvature. There was no doubt that it was principally due to the fact that the stomach and the duodenum had been cut through in a vertical direction. The abdominal wound was closed and antiseptic dressings applied. No drainage tubes; no spray during the operation, which lasted two hours and three quarters. The excised portion measured ten centimetres along the greater, five centimetres along the smaller curvature, and six centimetres in breadth. The pylorus was filled up by a cancerous mass, its opening just admitting the tip of the finger. The growth was ulcerated on its surface, and proved to be an epithelial cancer. The patient died of inanition, with symptoms of great anannia, on the eighth day after the operation. The morning after the operation she vomited 300 grammes of brownish fluid. In the evening, after taking a little milk, retching set in at once. The third day she was better and had taken some milk, etc., but on the fourth day, after taking a little milk, bilious vomiting began. During all this time there was no distension; flatus passed, the wound looked well, and the temperature was normal, but the pulse varied between 112 and 120. It was clear that the dilatation of the stomach was the essential cause of the vomiting. Evidently the gastric contents did not flow into the duodenum, and evidently also there was no complete stenosis where the “ ring sutures ” were applied, for bile was present in the vomit. Suspecting that a quantity of fluid might have collected in the flaccid sac of the stomach, we drew off the contents and evacuated about 200 grammes of yellowish, sour fluid. Attempts were made to restore the functions by the administration of good wine and meat, but all in vain; the greater part was thrown up again in a few hours. By the next day we were restricted to giving nutrient encmata. Thinking that a diverticulum might have been left in the stomach, and that some obstruction must exist which had not been present before the operation, for the patient had never previously vomited and had always been able to take fluid food, Professor Billroth adopted the last resource which the circumstances seemed to indicate. The wound was reopened and the occlusion sutures cut. The index finger passed into the stomach could only with difficulty bo introduced into the duodenum. The anterior “ ring sutures ” were also divided and the wall of the duodenum attached to the abdominal walls, a drainage tube being passed into the gut