GS MODE OF PERFORMING NEUROTOMY AND NEURECTOMY. Neurotomy. In performing subcutaneous neurotomy 1 never limit myself to a simple division, but I carry the knife through the nerve in several places close to each other. In this way the nerve is cut into pieces over an extent of about half a centimetre, and rapid regeneration is obviated. I usually perform the operation subcutaneously, but sometimes make au incision about two centimetres long exactly over the portion of the nerve I wish to cut through. In three cases I divided the supraorbital close to the upper margin of the orbit before the nerve enters the notch. In none of these cases did any benefit result, although the division of the nerve was proved beyond a doubt, by the anaesthesia of the portion of the skin that it supplied. In dividing the infraorbital nerve, I usually insert a fine neuro- tome into the canal and turn it round, so that the nerve is de- stroyed for at least the length of a centimetre. Care should be taken not to break the knife, as happened to me once in a subcuta- neous operation of this nature. I had to make an incision through the skin in order to extract the broken piece. I have performed this operation on seven occasions, three times entirely without suc- cess, although the side of the lip supplied by the nerve ivas deprived of sensation. In three cases the cure lasted only four months, and in one other for three months. In two instances the pains recurred with less severity, and in two were as bad as before. Neurectomy. In performing neurectomy of the infraorbital nerve I make a horizontal incision, about three and a half centimetres long, along the lower edge of the orbit; then with a raspatory I push back the periosteum as far back as the entrance of the nerve into the canal; then with a strong resection knife I cut through the nerve in this situation together with the upper wall of the antrum. Next, with two pairs of dissecting forceps, I separate the nerve from the lower border of the orbit, beginning at the back part. The nerve is then drawn out of the canal, and is cut through where it forms its fan- like expansion. A small drainage-tube is left in for a couple of