140 TRACHEOTOMY IN CHILDREN. impression on my mind, and has been to me a most decided warning against ever attempting tracheotomy again when single-handed. If anybody had been with me to hold the child I could have cut down on the trachea below deliberately, and so avoided the bleeding. Nobody, however, except the parents, who were in a great state of perturba- tion, was present: the child had so much dyspncea that I thought myself bound to act at once and alone, and thus met with this disaster. A successful case occurred in a child four years of age. I performed tracheotomy when the child was almost in extremis. The canula was first removed twenty days after the operation. The granulations of the wound in the neck were so prominent that they extended into the trachea and prevented me from removing the tube earlier, inasmuch as they half filled up the trachea and caused great dyspncea. After repeatedly removing the granulations and applying caustics, I was able to dispense permanently with the canula; the opening then rapidly closed. I think that the tracheotomies on children are the most difficult operations I have ever performed. The cases which I had at Zurich were commonly in small children with very short fat necks and enlarged thyroid glands. Not infrequently I found lying on the larynx such extensive and dense plexuses of veins that numerous vessels had to be secured before I could reach the conoid ligament; moreover, the children were, as a rule, only brought up to the hospital in the last stage of dyspncea. In five or six cases the children were completely asphyxiated under the operation, but were brought round by artificial respiration. Judging from my experience I am unable to understand how many surgeons talk of laryngotomy for croup as a very simple affair. I should blame no surgeon who declined to perform this operation. It is often one of great difficulty, and we are the more bound to acknowledge the highly creditable fact there is no inconsiderable number of surgeons who practise it. But yet it may be the means of directly saving life. Thus, Dr. Beiffer, of Erauenfeld, records that in his country practice he has performed tracheotomy in eighteen cases of croup, and that eight children have recovered; truly a brilliant result. Such figures as these we should bear in mind, so as not to be dissuaded from this operation, even should we for periods of years meet only with unsuccessful cases. The patient is much better off in tracheotomy, as in herniotomy, when the surgeon, under whose treatment he is, selects the right moment for operation; far better