ACUTE OSTEOMYELITIS. 414 recovery however, eventually took place, and only a few small portions of bone became detached from the anterior surface of the tibia. I suppose, judging from the result, that the case was one merely of periostitis, or at any rate, that the medulla of the bone, though it may have been inflamed, was not suppurating—otherwise, complete necrosis of the shaft must have followed. The sinuses did not completely close for two years. The girl recovered perfectly, and there was no shortening of the limb. A boy, set. 13, came under my care who, from the accounts given, had been attacked with acute osteomyelitis accompanied by extensive sloughing of the skin, a year previously. The bone became spontaneously detached at the upper and lower epiphyses. The suppuration was so great that the whole shaft was removed, although there was but little new formed periosteal hone. Pseudarthrosis, in consequence formed ; this was cured by uniting the ends of bones with sutures, and driving in ivory pegs. The tibia recovered its normal size, and the growth of the limb was not interfered with. The patient was in perfect health and strength. Attention has been repeatedly called, of late, to acute osteo- myelitis, occurring where there has been no breach of surface. Formerly, the disease was not universally recognised, partly because in making post-mortem examinations in such cases the affected bones were not sufficiently examined, and the anatomical features of the disease, therefore, imperfectly understood, and partly because, in many parts of Germany the disease is of comparatively rare occurrence. For instance, in Vienna, this affection is seldom met with, and during the seven years that I was assistant, I can recall but few cases; they were more numerous in Zurich, and I heard of many which were met with in Berne; von Langenbeck has remarked on the frequency of such cases at Kiel. The comparative rarity of the disease in some places, and its frequency at others, is only apparent; the necroses of the femur and end of the tibia, which are common enough at every hospital, and of which numerous pre- parations are to be found in every pathological museum, are mostly the result of acute or subacute osteomyelitis. We must take into consideration the fact that patients suffering from acute osteo- myelitis cannot be easily moved, and content themselves in con- sequence with such treatment as they can obtain at home, in pre- ference to undertaking a long journey to a hospital. The frequency of cases of necrosis proves, moreover, that the disease often