CASES OF CONCUSSION. 33 In one case we had to deal witli a punctured wound in the right temporal region, the result of a stab with a penknife. At first there were no brain symptoms, and the injury was considered trivial. On the fourth day con- siderable headache came on, followed shortly by great restlessness, delirium, and finally coma. Death on the sixth day after the injury. Post mortem : a small puuctured wound was found passing through the temporal bone into the brain; in the anterior lobe the brain substance was broken down at one part into a soft, red, pulpy mass, the size of a walnut. * The condition found agreed with the diagnosis; attempts had been made to find the opening in the bone during life, with the object of letting out the pus. The opening, however, was not discovered, inasmuch as the wound ran very obliquely through the temporal muscle. Even if the opening had been enlarged no good would have come of it, as no pus had formed that could have been evacuated. Concussion, with symptoms varying from those of a transitory nature up to twenty-four hours' duration, without any further brain symptoms following. Vomiting was but seldom observed. In one of these cases, where there was no scalp wound, erysipelas occurred, commencing at the right ear, from which bleeding had taken place. Bleeding from the nose and ear, and ecchymosis of the ocular conjunctiva is not uncommon. In many of these cases there might have been fissures of the skull which could not be diagnosed. In one patient there was a discharge from the ear, of a pulpy white nature, mixed with blood, which had exactly the appearance of brain matter. Still, the case could hardly have been mistaken for fissure of the base, with discharge of brain matter, in the face of complete recovery, even had not microscopical examination proved that the discharged pulp consisted of epithelial elements coming from the external auditory canal. The tympanic membrane was uninjured. Concussion, with more or less 'persistent disturbance of the mental faculties. A young student fell, in the dark, from a terrace unguarded by railings, lie lay unconscious, and was brought up to the hospital soon after the accident, with symptoms of severe concussion ; no mark of injury could be discovered about the head. The unconsciousness continued, and a few days after he became very restless, lie would try to avoid examination by curling himself 3