402 WOUND OF TIBIAL ARTERIES. and discoloured, but not wounded; the foot lay in a position of marked Yarns. After numerous unsuccessful attempts, reduction was at last effected easily on exerting powerful traction on the heel. A fortnight later the skin was found gangrenous on the outside of the ankle; the astragalus became completely necrosed, and was removed three months after the injury. Wound of both tibial arteries. A strong labourer, aet. 31, received two stabs from a knife in the left leg. Judging from the appearance of the high hoot, which he brought with him, both the stabs had been inflicted from the outer side. One was closo to the crest of the tibia, the other a little higher up and more posterior. Two hours after the injury, when the boot was taken off it was found to he full of clotted blood. The leg was perfectly cold and insensitive, not at all swollen, hut of a bluish colour from the sugillation. No haemorrhage could be seen; cold compresses were applied. The leg became darker and darker in colour and lost power of movement, and when he was brought up to the hospital a month after the injury, the limb was already in a state of mummi- fication up to the head of the tibia. Not only had a complete line of demar- cation formed, but the mummified parts were detached and retracted from the bones, so that at the bottom of the line of demarcation the bones were exposed for about an inch. As in gangrene from thrombosis of the popliteal artery, the line of demarcation was at a lower level behind than in front. The bones were sawn through, and the flap brought up from behind. Slow convalescence followed. Section B. Acute and Chronic Inflammations.—Cases of acute phlegmonous inflammation. Spontaneous gangrene from embolism. Gangrene from disease of the smaller arteries— Case. Case of gangrene from ancemia ; from some unknown cause. Amputation in gangrene. Cases of gangrene ; spon- taneous ; from embolism of subclavian; senile. Varieties of gangrene. Case of ulceration of leg with lengthening of the limb. Cases of gangrenous ulceration. Periarticular abscess. Acute gonitis—Case. Cases of acute periostitis and osteomyelitis ; of femur; of tibia; remarks. Cases of osteomyelitis with separation of epiphyses. Case of acute ostitis. Cases of subacute osteo- myelitis. Ditto affecting numerous bones. General remarks on acute periostitis and osteomyelitis. Other cases of the