330 ENOHONDROMA OF PELVIS: REMOVAL : TRANSFUSION. oil the removal of the aortic compressor the patient was seized with deep syncope, complete loss of pulse, irregular respiration and total insensi- bility. Evidently after the removal of the compressor, the diminished quan- tity of blood proved unequal to the supply of a larger area, and the amount which reached the heart, brain, and lungs was insufficient to keep up the functions of those organs. Still the heart was working. It was of para- mount importance to supply the brain with blood. Instead of the horizontal position adopted for those who have fainted, in view of the imminent risk we placed the head hanging deeply down. Some strong assistants supported the patient with her legs raised, and after some time the respirations became more regular, the widely dilated pupils contracted, and the blanched lips regained some colour. She vomited up some coffee and spoke a few words. The effect of the position of the head was extraordinary. I had really given up all hope. After she had been almost vertically suspended head down- wards for three or four minutes, the colour of the lips became livid, and we thought that the action of the circulation would be sufficient to continue when she was laid horizontally, but complete collapse ensued after she had been a few minutes in this position. Vertical suspension was again resorted to, and again with success. Five separate times was this repeated. Fearing lest my assitants should become exhausted, I placed the patient on an inclined plane in such a way that it did not require so much exertion to support her head downwards. At length it became evident, beyond a doubt, that the absolute quantity of the blood was insufficient to support life until new blood formed, for without causing artificial determination of the blood to the brain, the necessary physiological functions could not be kept up. What was there now left but to perform transfusion ? I dismissed my dislike of this operation, for I felt that now, if ever, the indications for transfusion were present. Herr Dr. Klotz, of the Tyrol, at once offered to give some of his blood for the patient. Everything was ready to hand, and I performed the transfusion at once. The venous blood filtered, stirred up, and warmed to 37°C. was injected into the brachial artery of the patient’s left arm. The patient struggled so much while I sought for the vessel, that the arm had to be held by two assistants, and it was only after considerable search, and doubt as to whether I had exposed the artery or the vein, that I was able to insert the cannula and inject the blood in a peripheral direction. As I began the transfusion, and slowly injected about three ounces, the patient evidently experienced considerable pain, and called out “ herr professor! ” The arm was of an arterial red colour, and some of the subcutaneous veins were visible, when, in a moment, the respiration and beats of the heart ceased—life was suddenly extinguished. I am far from thinking that this patient would have lived if •transfusion had not been adopted, but any one who had been pre-