PARALYSIS AFTER FRACTURE. 348 after the injury, and tried unsuccessfully to induce union by repeatedly rubbing the fragments together, and applying iodine. I then operated on the fracture after Dieffenbach’s manner, by inserting ivory pegs; in the course of eighteen months, the union was sufficiently firm for the patient to discontinue her bandage. Three months later, however, the fragments again separated ; and the patient was discharged as unimproved.1 A healthy, strong man, set. 35, was admitted with an ununited fracture, about the centre of the humerus. The injury, which had been sustained six months previously, had at first been treated with splints and afterwards with plaster of Paris; the fragments were veiy movable. I cut off the ends obliquely, united the bones by two j)latinum wires, and applied a plaster bandage. The patient went back to his native place—Alexandria—eighteen days after the operation ; the wires were removed there, two months later. The patient came back to me a year or two subsequently, and his arm was then perfectly strong and well. A strong man, set, 41, came under treatment for a condition similar to the above : in this case, however, the mobility between the fragments was very extensive; the lower portion of bone was knobbed at the extremity, and directed inwards, while the upper was atrophied, thin, and displaced outwards. The muscles of the arm were much wasted. On cutting down on the ends of the bones, I found them covered with cartilage and softened; the extremities were removed, and the fragments wired together by platinum sutures. Osteo-myelitis followed, and the upper fragment necrosed up to the shoulder- joint. After this he had a severe attack of erysipelas. Three months after the operation I removed the sequestrum. There was still some movement at the pseudarthrosis when he was discharged four months after the first operation, but the arm was much thickened by new periosteal bone. I was unable to leam the ultimate result. Paralysis of musculo-spiral nerve after fracture. A child, set. 6, sustained a fracture of the arm, about two inches above the elbow-joint. Fourteen days after the injury he came up to the hospital with the limb put up in a paste-board splint. The fragments, which were but little displaced, were invested with a moderate amount of callus. The second, third, and fourth fingers were flexed, and contracted at the phalan- geal joints and also at the wrist, and the patient was unable to extend the hand and the fingers. We diagnosed paralysis of the musculo-spiral nerve, resulting from the pressure of the callus. Neither the father nor the medical attendant of the child could state whether this paralysis occurred at the time 1 It does not appear that in either of the above cases the urine was examined. The frequent association of alkaline urine with ununited frac- ture has been commented on by numerous writers though no very satisfactory explanation has as yet been given of their connection. [Ed.] 1