202 LIPOMA. MULTIPLE FIBROMATA. ANGIOMA. Lipoma. With, regard to fatty tumours of the trunk, it may be worth notice that these, in most instances, were found on the back ; their frequency in the female sex is evidenced by the fact that among twenty-seven cases, only four occurred in men. Multiple soft fibromata. {Fig. 14). G. A—, set. 53. About thirty years previously a tumour weighing between four or five ounces had been removed from the chin. About the same date numerous soft small tumours developed in the skin, principally about the trunk. Most of the growths were no larger than a linseed, or a pea, but a few were of somewhat larger size. The long, pendulous tumour of the breast, with which he was admitted, developed on one of the small tumours. Six years previously it began to increase in size markedly and for a year or two had been growing with great rapidity. The growth was removed with the knife; the haemorrhage was but slight, and recovery followed.1 Angioma. A man, mt. 43, had a racemose, pulsating, arterio-venous angioma the size of the hand on the right side. He had had since birth a vascular mole in this spot, which had gradually increased. For the last few years he had been troubled with repeated vomitings, and hemorrhage from the ntevus, and was greatly reduced, and anemic. An elastic bandage was placed on the thorax above and below the growth. I was thus able to excise the growth, without any loss of blood. The wound was united by sutures, but a considerable collection of blood took place under them, and they had to be loosened, on account of commencing septic inflammation and suppuration in the neigh- bourhood. Repeated haemorrhage followed with septic pleurisy, and he died six days after the operation. Cavernous blood tumour, combined with a small lobulated lipoma. I could not say in this case nor in another, which I once saw on the thigh, whether the fat formation (Rindfleisch), or the develop'- 1 The case is analogous to those described by Mr. G. D. Pollock in the ‘Mod.-Chir. Transactions,’ vol. lvi, p. 255, and the ‘ Path. Soc. Transactions,’ vol. xxvi, p. 219, as ‘Fibroma molluscum.’ Other references to the literature of the subject will be found at the end of a paper by Dr. Sangster in the ‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vol. xiii, p. 166. The Museum of St. George’s Hospital contains numerous drawings and photographs of patients with this affection and in the Catalogue of the Museum will be found further information. See also a case supra pp. 92, 93, Fig. 4—[Ed.]