26G NATURE OF PYELITIS. CASE OF LACERATED URETHRA. of the kidneys, or whether albuminuria finally occurs; the first mentioned effect is highly probable. Pyelitis, it seems to me, belongs to that large group of diseases which we are in the habit of ascribing to the tuberculo-scrofulous diathesis. It occupies a distinct position between amyloid degene- ration on the one hand, and Bright's disease on the other. The two latter processes rarely lead to suppuration of the substance or the pelvis of the kidney. Prom the group of tuberculo-scrofulous diseases, purulent catarrh may be dissociated. This affection does not always lead to miliary tubercle or to caseation, although both these conditions may occur. Caseous nephritis or peri-nephritis is certainly often associated with pyelitis. The catarrh of the pelvis of the kidney may either precede or follow the affection of the paren- chyma ; bronchial catarrh, blenorrhcea and their results are diseases parallel, though not so very often associated with cysto-pyelitis. General marasmus may occur at a late stage of renal disease, and then some slight accidental cause will prove fatal. The more in- efficiently the functions of the kidneys are performed, the more danger will there be from any febrile disturbance, for the kidneys manifestly play an important part in repairing such disturbances. Ammoniacal fermentation of the urine in the bladder, with ammo- niaemia, often rapidly disappears when the kidneys are doing their work tolerably well. When the cortical substance is much atro- phied, such a condition may prove fatal. « Calculous pyelitis, like the cysto-pyelitis set up by chronic reten- tion of urine, has nothing whatever to do with a tuberculo-scro- fulous diathesis. Lithiasis is more connected with arthritis, rheumatism, arterial sclerosis and cardiac disease. Large calculi in the pelvis of the kidney can of course, set up suppuration mechani- cally, and may cause also purulent cystitis. But the reason does not seem to me quite clear why sometimes even in cases where the stones are large and rough, these changes are altogether absent, or very slight. Further investigation is necessary to determine whether the suppuration depends more on constitutional tendencies, or on the chemical and physical qualities of the stone. Laceration of urethra. Urethrotomy. A man, ad. 22, who three weeks previously had sustained a comminuted fracture of the pelvis, was admitted with an abscess around the urethra, and