LITHOLAPAXY. 280 operation I performed, with the distinct intention of completing it at one sitting was on the 8th June, 1879, on a man, 59 years of age. The stone measured three centimetres in diameter, and was com- posed of uric acid and urates; the operation lasted forty-five minutes. The second case was that of a man, set. 45, who was operated on on the 10th May, 1880; the stone was phosphatic and measured two centimetres in diameter. The operation lasted twenty-three minutes. In the next two operations the stones were the largest I have dealt with by this method; one of them was a hard, uric acid calculus, measuring three and a half, the other four centi- metres in diameter. The first operation lasted fifty-five minutes and the second two hours. In the fifth case the stone was phos- phatic, and measured two and a half centimetres; the operation lasted thirty minutes. In my last case, the stone measured one and a half centimetres and lasted fifteen minutes. The estimate of the diameters of the stones was taken from the scale on the lithotrite. It is not easy to judge of the size of the cal- culus from the expelled fragments. The size of the stone, which as a rule one is apt to under-estimate considerably, may be determined in the following way; the debris is filtered through calico into a urine glass ; the fragments that remain on the filter are then collected in the cloth and firmly pressed together. By taking into account also the measures of the different diameters, the shape may be deter- mined more or less accurately. Of course this gives only an approximate measurement, but I may state that by the use of this method, I have observed that very often I had under-estimated the size of the stone from the fragments. I have often thought that the whole stone could not have been removed, for the fragments did not seem in proportion to the measurements. Iu all the cases mentioned, the febrile reaction was trifling. The patient in whom the operation lasted for two hours had a rigor subsequently, but this was of a purely nervous character, and with- out j any increase of fever. Such rigors are common enough after operations on the bladder. Some of the patients were well enough to be discharged in from ten to twelve days. In order to determine whether any fragments had been left, I make an examination after four or five days, and repeat it on three separate occasious at intervals of two days, sometimes with a full, sometimes with an empty bladder. If I find no fragments at the third examination, I feel pretty well at case, but it is even then by no means absolutely certain that there