184 MECHANICAL TREATMENT OF ANCULAR CURVATURE. the diseased parts. This can only be properly applied when the curvature is on a level with, or lower than the fifth dorsal vertebrae; it the curvature be higher, the upper part of the vertebral column must be supported by a suitable apparatus, either on the plan of the old apparatus for torticollis, or on the plan advocated by Taylor, in which the head is supported from below at the occiput. By the use of appliances of these kinds (which I have especially employed of late years in private practice), I have seen just as good results as when the children were condemned to be constantly lying down. Usually the parents are much more easily persuaded to purchase such apparatus, and to apply them regularly, than to keep the children for periods of years lying on their backs or faces. I do not say that it is better for these children to wear supports of this nature than to be kept constantly lying down, but it is much more advisable for them than that they should sit up in bed, as they do, without any support for the greater part of the day.1 I need hardly say that in spite of my somewhat pessimist opinions as to the prognosis of spinal caries, I always recommend the parents of these children to tend them with the utmost care. Writing, as I do, for my colleagues, I consider it my duty to describe by observations unreservedly as I have done. I should be glad to learn that I have drawn too dark a picture, and would only ask my colleagues to withold any definite opinion until they have kept their patients under observation for ten years or more, and can then give their experience of the ultimate results in figures. With regard to the treatment of congestive abscesses my advice is never to open them. I never saw abscesses of this nature descend beyond the middle of the thigh; usually they open spon- taneously when they are still in the upper third of the thigh. I have not met with a case where the abscess burst into the abdominal cavity. I usually regretted it when I opened these abscesses. In one case lately, led away by the eulogistic terms in which the result of opening, draining, and antiseptic treatment of these abscesses had been described, I was induced to open a congestive abscess in a case where fluctuation was just perceptible beneath PouparPs liga- ment. The third day after the opening arterial bleeding took place i A simple and effective contrivance to obviate this is in use at the Hospital for Hip Disease in Queen’s Square, London, and elsewhere. It is described by Mr. Edmund Owen in his “ Harvcian Lectures,” 1880, published in ‘ Louisville Med. News,’ vol. ix., No. 222, p. 151. (Eo.)