HYPERTROPHY OF FACE AND CAVERNOUS LYMPHECTASIS. 53 pain. Four years before her admission, from no assignable cause, an abscess, the size of an egg, formed over the left side of the vault of the skull and opened spontaneously a year after its first appearance; a large quantity of thick pus was discharged and the abscess then rapidly healed. During the following years similar swellings appeared, at one time in the right, at another in the left infraorbital region, then deep in the neck; none of these went on to the formation of abscesses; they came and went slowly, and without pain. For four months there had been swelling and redness of the nose; for three weeks the nose had been stopped up and had discharged a good deal of thin pus. She denied any syphilitic taint, and there were no appearances of this disease. The patient was of weak frame, pale, indolent, and of dull intellect. The nose was red and swollen ; on the right side of the cheek, close to the nose, was seen a circular ulcer, the size of a shilling, with sharp edges, covered with breaking down diphtheritic granulations, on which was some serous secretion. The mucous membrane of the nose was swollen. Prompted by the appearance of the ulcer and the recollection of other cases, we tried antisyphilitic treatment (Decoct. Zittmanni) for a time. Then as the ulceration spread caustics were employed and iodide given internally. This treatment was continued for nearly five months ; meanwhile the disease extended. As a purely empirical experiment, I now gave ten drops of Tr. Fowleri thrice daily. Improvement at once commenced and the parts began to cicatrise. She left in six weeks’ time with the ulceration healed, though, it is true, with con- siderable deformity of the nose. To my mind the marvellous improvement that followed the exhi- bition of the arsenic was a lamentable defeat for rational thera- peutics. Was the morbid process of a syphilitic, a scrofulous, or a lupous nature ? Who could decide ? The disease was the result of a dyscrasia, which was destroyed by the arsenic. As a matter of fact, we can as yet offer no explanation for the frequently remark- able effects of arsenic in chronic affections of the skin. Unilateral congenital hypertrophy of the mucous membrane of the cheek and the topper siorface of the tongue, combined with caver- nous lymphectasis. B. II—, set. 10, was born with the following deformity which had not materially altered since his birth. The right cheek was considerably thicker than the left, the thickening being chiefly limited to the mucous membrane and the submucous tissue. The right half of the tongue was covered witli papillae, from one to two lines in height, arranged in groups and covered by a thick layer of epithelium. All these parts had increased proportionately with the growth ol the body, but without having any special growth in themselves. From time to time the cheek and tongue swelled, and occasioned difficulty iu swallowing. These attacks usually lasted two or three days, and then gradually