TEE ATM ENT OP ANGIOMA BY GALVANO-CAUTEEY. 91 lid, the entire cheek, and half the upper lip were affected. To remove with the knife a growth of this extent in a child is rather too formi- dable an idea; even if by repeated partial excisions the haemorrhage could have been obviated, terrible disfigurement must have been left. In Zurich, I had already adopted, with success, Nussbaum’s recommendation to puncture these angiomata with bundles of red- hot needles; this process, however, is very tedious, for the needles cool so rapidly that they perpetually require heating again. In cases of large angioma, therefore, the success of each individual operation is but slight, and the parents of the little patients soon lose patience. By thoroughly puncturing the tumour with the red- hot pointed galvano-cautery, taking care, however, to leave small islands untouched, not only are the vessels which are met with destroyed, but, after the loosening of the eschars, the vessels in the immediate neighbourhood also harden. The galvano-cautery should not be raised to a white heat, or bleeding will occur. From the islands of epidermis remaining between the punctures, cicatrisation proceeds rapidly after the swelling has subsided, i.e. eight or ten days after the operation. Suppuration is often tolerably severe, but I have never seen haemorrhage occur later on—a matter of some importance. Lately I have repeatedly treated children in this way, and sent them home at once. I advise the parents always to apply cold compresses for the first few days, then oiled lint, and direct that the children be brought back to me when the wounds are healed. In treating large teleangiectases of the face, I generally commence by galvano-punc- ture all round the growth, in order to stop any peripheral extension. Especial caution is necessary in the use of the galvano-cautery in the orbital region. I make one of my assistants cover up the closed eye with a wet sponge, so as to leave exposed only the part to be operated upon; the head of the child must be kept absolutely still by another assistant. The operator must learn to manipulate the somewhat long and heavy instrument with great precision. The point should be carried in with a quick touch, as deeply as necessary at the right spot, and must then rapidly be lifted out again, lest the heat emanating from the cautery damage the eye. In carrying out this somewhat difficult treatment I take care to have a firm rest for my arm and hand, and I enjoin my assistants to concentrate their entire attention on what they are doing. A single slip might damage the eye irretrievably. For large angiomata I find the appli- cation of the galvanic wire very practical; it may be employed in