ERGOTINE INJECTION. ANTYLLUS’S OPERATION. 45-7 month the aneurism was distinctly smaller and softer, though there was still decided pulsation. Compression was continued, and in addition an ice-bladder was kept to the part. A daily subcutaneous injection of ergo tine was ordered; the injections were persevered with for thirteen days, hut were then discon- tinued owing to redness about the leg. The aneurism certainly did not diminish during this period; the pulsation, indeed, appeared to be rather more marked. A week later the injections were resumed and continued for twenty-two days, but again without improvement. After an interval of a month the injections were again resorted to and continued for three weeks, again without leading to any material improvement. By means of the pres- sure the pulsation had so diminished as to he scarcely perceptible. Once more the ergotine treatment was employed as on the previous occasions, but the treatment was discontinued, as small abscesses formed. After seven months’ treatment the patient was discharged at his own earnest request. The aneurism had diminished to one half of its original size, and the pul- sation was very slight. Of his further history I only know that three months after his discharge he was in good health. Antyllus’s Operation eor Aneurism. Treatment oe Aneurism. Antyllus’s operation is a kind of treatment more easily adopted now that we can employ local anaemia. I do not deny that it may be suitable for aneurisms of small arteries,1 and for traumatic aneurisms- where the sac has given way, more especially in these days when the antiseptic method prevents any undue amount of suppuration : at the same time my experience of the operation up to the present does not lead me to estimate it very highly, for the following reasons:—The inner surface of these large aneurisms mostly consists of breaking down or sloughing tissue, which can never be wholly removed without causing serious haemorrhage from the dilated collaterals. The prospect of any rapid healing is therefore very slight. Again, a considerable extent of the artery is often so rotten and soft that secondary haemorrhage is almost the rule, and this is really favoured by the use of catgut ligatures, for the tissues- over these ligatures do not become adherent together. I fear that in cases of large traumatic aneurisms of the thigh, associated with inflammatory symptoms and fever, amputation is the surest method of saving life, and should be adopted more frequently than has hitherto, perhaps, been the case. Ihe hopes that I formerly entertained of the treatment of See two cases of aneurism of the radial artery treated by this method' recorded above, p. 377.