CAVERNOUS LYMPHATIC TUMOUR. MELANOMA. 449 Cavernous lymphatic tumour} A girl, set. 19, whose previous health had been good, was seized suddenly with pain in the left groin ; she had also vomitings and slight rigors from time to time ; these attacks, which were accompanied by an erysipelatous blush starting in the groin, lasted often for eight days or so, and persisted for a few months, at the end of whieh time they ceased; for four years she had had a discharge of lymph, coming from clear, transparent vesicles on the inner aspect of the thigh. The tumour, which was about the size of a fist, was thought at first to be a chronic abscess with an open sinus, and accord- ingly an incision was made ; the cavernous network of the growth was, however, distinctly recognised and a quantity of lymph escaped. As the wound subsequently assumed a rather unhealthy appearance, and the patient became feverish, the part was cauterised with fuming sulphuric acid. On two occasions pressure was made, after the galvano-cautery had been applied to the tumour, but without any benefit. The discharge of fluid continued as before, and the eysipelatous attacks recurred again. The discharge amounted to about forty grms. in the hour. I then removed the tumour, dissecting it all out except a small process which ran down between the large vessels of the thigh; these vessels were exposed during the operation. For a time after the operation there was a slight discharge of lymph, but this gradually ceased, and in six months the patient left perfectly well. The tumour consisted of a reticulate stroma enclosing cavernous spaces lined by a beautiful lymph epithelium. A child, set. i^, was brought to me with a soft tumour as large as the fist on the dorsum of the foot, of congenital origin. At the time of birth, it was about the size of a date. After removal it was found to consist of fibrous tissue, enclosing numerous cavernous spaces filled with lymph. Melanoma (Melanotic Sarcoma ?) op the Skin oe the Leg. I scarcely know whether to classify as sarcomata or carcinomata, the tumours, of which the following case is an instance, which occur in the form of small, dark, nodules, and fungus-like growths in the skin of the leg. The form, nature of origin, and mode of onset resemble sarcoma; the anatomical structure, too, of many of them favours this view; but in the larger nodules, growths connected 1 For a description of this rare form of tumour see ‘ Billroth’s Path.,’ Hackley s transl., p. 610; Cf. also Virchow, ‘ Krank. Geschwiilstc,’ vol. iii, p. 490; Liicke, ‘ Geschwlilste ’ p. 267 ; and Dr. Gjorgjevic, in ‘ Arch. f. Klin. Chirurgie, Ed. xiii, Ileft. 2, p. 646, who described tliccaso of the girl, quoted above, more fully. Compare also a case recorded above, p. 379. 29