482 TUMOR ALBUS OF THE HIP. twenty and twenty-five years of age, and runs its course without suppuration, but frequently entails stiffness and ankylosis. In the clinic such cases were commonly recorded as “rheumatic coxitis.’’ Ihe bones seldom become affected, but the protracted inactivity of the joint, leads to the so-called “ cartilaginous ankylosis,” in which adhesions form between the folds of synovial membrane, and the cap- sule of the joint becomes contracted.1 Such cases, of course, in no way resemble the form of hip-joint disease occurring in children who suffer from dyscrasia. In Zurich I met with this form of rheumatic coxitis, as it is called, in young adults, far more frequently than in Vienna. I find, from my statistics, that of 82 cases in which suppu- ration took place, 46 died; while in 60 cases where there was no suppuration, only 7 died. We may perhaps be justified in deducing from this, that the formation of abscess raises the per- centage of mortality in hip-joint disease from n to 56. Now, this result appears to me to be of importance for it shows that we are scarcely justified in performing excision of the hip, un- less suppuration exists, or caries as evidenced by crepitus. To this rule I have hitherto rigidly adhered. An extended series of figures will be required to prove that the ultimate results after excision, are better, as regards function, than those of cases not submitted to operation. Till this is proved, early excision cannot be recommended as the ordinary method of treatment. So far as I know Eose and Volkmann have practised excision very early in hip- j.oint disease, and the results of their operations at the end of a few years, quoad vitam and quoad functionem may possibly yield us conclusive evidence on the question. Subcutaneous osteotomy for hip-joint ankylosis. Death from, suppuration. A child, at. 8, came under my care with its right thigh flexed at a right angle, the result of old suppurative coxitis. I endeavoured, unsuccessfully, to straighten the limb, but the femur was perfectly immovable, nor could the position be improved after dividing the fascia and muscles. Urged by 1 Similar changes not infrequently take place in the shoulder-joint after dislocation, but they mostly occur in old people, and are characterised by rapid wasting of the muscles—a symptom that is not so readily recognised in the hip.