54 GANGRENE FROM ANiEMIA ATRESIA NASI. disappeared. The last attack was of so severe a nature and was associated with so much difficulty of breathing that the parents sought for advice. I diagnosed hypertrophy of the cellular tissue and fat, united with cavernous lymphectasis. My experience of these kinds of congenital tumours led me to conclude, from the periodical swelling, that the latter condition existed. All material symptoms indicative of a cavernous blood tumour were wanting. I employed puuctiform cauterisation with the galvano-cautery, and took the opportunity to destroy the papillary formations of the tongue at the same time ; similar applications were made at intervals of from two to three weeks, and by this means the whole tumour of the cheek was diminished in size, and the growth on the tongue destroyed. The reaction following the first cauterisation was slight in character. After the third operation, where the cautery was applied rather more energetically, great swelling of the cheek and parotid gland ensued. The parotitis was tolerably severe, lasting about three weeks, and finally ended in resolution under treatment with iodide; meanwhile the tumour of the cheek had become somewhat smaller. Later reports stated that his condition some time after he had left the hospital, remained the same. He was free from the painful swelling which formerly occurred. Five years later he came back, in order to have the rest of the excrescence removed; excepting a slight thickening of the cheek his condition was perfectly normal. Gangrene of the nose. In the winter of 1862 a young man was admitted into the hospital for gangrene of the end of the nose, said to have been caused by frost-bite. After a time spontaneous gangrene of the feet set in ; the cause could not be completely made out. I think that these cases of spontaneous gangrene can only be explained by great anaemia and feebleness of the heart, further remarks on this subject will be found in the chapter on “ Diseases and Injuries of the Lower Extremity Atresia of both nasal cavities. This condition was seen in a girl, 3 years old, the result of cicatricial con- traction after variola. The cicatrices were cut out and the openings dilated by laminaria tents. India-rubber tubes were passed in, and ultimately the normal width of the nasal cavities was completely restored. I do not know whether recovery was permanent; I rather tear that it was not, lor the mother, who was a poor woman, probably had no time to attend to the directions which were given to her, of keeping the parts clean and introducing the tubes every day, for some months.