144 CAS EATING LYMPHATIC GLANDS. losis may be set up. No satisfactory instance of it has occurred under my observation. In all the cases in which I saw tubercular disease of the lungs or intestines in connection with these suppura- ting glands, my impression was that the condition was due as much to hereditary predisposition as to the lymphatic glands; the latter, indeed, seemed to me to occur half accidentally as the first symptom of the tubercular diathesis. From my experience, which I freely confess is but small, I would venture to assert that amongst the numerous cases of tubercular disease of the intestines or lungs there were but few who had at the same time any sinuses about the neck or cicatrices; far more frequently are these sinuses or cica- trices found in those affected with caries. If these caseating areas are once formed in enlarged cervical glands, my opinion is that they will not be absorbed. Such glands can be recognised by their hardness, fixity, and by their gradual coalescence. At such a stage, no doubt, some contraction of the hyperplastic tissue surrounding the caseous area may take place, diminution in size may follow, but no complete disappearance can be looked for. Again, it is true that the glands may remain for years unaltered when in this condition; further infection then but seldom ensues. Any severe congestion about the glands, caused per- haps by a blow or a fall, or originating without any known cause, can again awake into activity the irritating material stored up in the glands. Then the surrounding parts become inflamed, soften, and suppurate, an ulcerated cavity forms after they break, and the caseous masses are discharged. Even then a long time may elapse before the hard capsules of the glands shrink up completely and the sinuses close. It is no uncommon thing to see such changes, going on slowly for ten years or more, eventually leaving numerous unsightly cicatrices. Not infrequently the patients, especially when young girls, pine away both physically and mentally. The process wears them out, and even if they do not die early, all their enjoy- ment of life is embittered, and at times permanently destroyed. It is more disagreeable for the surgeon to give a highly un- certain prognosis than to find his treatment powerless; the one alter- native affects his reputation with the public far more than the other. On the whole, mistakes in prognosis will be less infrequently made if the disease be predicted as likely to last many years. In the therapeutical treatment, the progress of time has found us all much more active; no one who has removed many such glands, .