381 NEURO-FIBROMA. OSTEOMA. SARCOMA. Neuro-fibroma of the musculo-spiral nerve. A tumour of this nature, the size of a bean, was removed from the arm of 3 man, set. 33 ; he had in addition a neuro-fibroma, the size of a pea, on the internal cutaneous nerve, and two in the lower extremity; on the right side of the chest also there was a nodule, the size of a pin’s head. Tho growths had been noticed for two years, and were all acutely sensitive. I removed the four nodules, all of which were found to be central neuro-fibromata ; one of those on the leg, attached to the peroneal nerve, was the size of a bantam’s egg; paralysis of this latter nerve, and of the musculo-spiral resulted from the operation. I had no opportunity subsequently of learning whether he recovered from this condition. Osteoma. (Exostosis bursata olecrani.) A man, set. 23, was admitted with a small hard tumour of the olecranon, which he stated had existed as long as he could remember. Some time pre- viously a second softer tumour had formed on the first; in due course it broke, and some thin yellow fluid escaped. On examining the patient, I found an exostosis, the size of a large bean, at the junction of the olecranon with the shaft of the ulna. Seated on this was a small thickened bursal sac, from which serum dripped away through a small opening. Movement in the elbow-joint caused some pain. I felt sure that the bursal sac mentioned was connected with the articulation. I laid open the bursa and removed the exostosis; suppuration of the joint followed as I had anticipated. The patient would not allow resection, and left with an ankylosed elbow. Sarcoma of the arm. Frau H—, set. 53, consulted me on account of a painful swelling of the right deltoid, which had existed for eight weeks. It proved on removal to be a large-celled alveolar sarcoma.1 The growth recurred again and again, always in the cicatrix; the axillary glands were unaffected throughout. Five years after the first operation the arm was removed at the shoulder- joint : she died a few months later, and at the post-mortem examination some fifteen or twenty soft medullary tumours were found in the lungs. The tumour in this case was altered in microscopical character even at its first recurrence, though the change became more apparent in the succeeding growths; it then partook more of the nature of a small-celled gliomatous growth, parts only showing traces of the original appearance. 1 Compare Billroth’s ‘Pathology,’ Ilackloy’s Trans.,Fig. 138,p. 617- Tho preparation shown in the illustration was taken from this case. [Bn.]