NATURE OF PHOSPHORUS “ NECROSIS.” 73. by diseased bone or periosteum; frequently tliey originate in the loose layer of cellular tissue lying on the newly-formed layers of bone, without exposing the latter; cloacae and sinuses may form, as in necrosis, but they are less frequent about the jaws than elsewhere,, inasmuch as the pus originating between the old and the new bone breaks into the mouth.) I treated this patient for two months with iodine inunctions, and iodide of potassium internally. The swelling of the periosteum and gums completely disappeared under this treatment. I expected some slight exfoliation from the exposed alveoli, a process that I should like to have seen completed, but which did not occur while the patient was under my care. She felt herself so well and free from pain that she would no longer stay in the hospital. I heard, three months after her discharge, that she continued perfectly well. In cases where the periostitis ran a chronic course, and was attended by slight pain, the patients always came far too late to the hospital. At the outset they paid but little attention to their condition, and felt bound to earn their livelihood by working on in the manufactory. I have known these patients, when for a time, want of room prevented their admission into the hospital, go back again, in spite of all advice to the contrary, to the manufactory with sup- puration of the jaws. The truth of the saying that “ necessity knows no laws ” is the simple explanation of this lack of common sense. The lower jaw is far more frequently affected than the upper this is shown in my small number of cases. As regards the dura- tion of the disease, many circumstances have to be taken into account. Among my cases the shortest period was six months, the longest two and a half years. In the matter of treatment I am sure that, if the patient be. removed from the factory immediately on the occurrence of pain in the lower jaw, the mouth wrell washed out, and favourable dietetic conditions secured, the process will stop of itself. Perhaps in chronic cases, and in those which are subacute at the outset, iodides or mercury may assist in arresting the disease. The loss of many jaws, nay, of many lives, may certainly be obviated by timely treat- ment. Before going further into the treatment, I must say a word upon the anatomical conditions, for the expression phosphorus “ necrosis” has led to much misunderstanding. It must not be supposed that Irorn the first a circumscribed portion of the jaw becomes rapidly necrosed, as in noma or gangrene of the moutlv