CYST OF THE UPPER JAW. 97 fist, in the right cheek. The growth had first been noticed nine years pre- viously, probably originating in the spheno-maxillary fossa. In four years it had reached the size of an apple, and was then removed, but soon recurred, and had continually increased up to admission. The tumour occasioned no pain and had caused no atrophy of the bones. It was removed, and six years later no recurrence had taken place. The growth proved to be a highly cedematous soft fibroma. (See illustration, Fig. 7.) Fibroma of the parotid. T. S—, set. 4, had a tumour, the size of an orange, which had been growing for one year; it was removed successfully. The age of the patient and the rapid growth of the tumour render the case a rare one. It proved to be a simple firm fibroma. Two cases of cyst of the upper jaw (hydrops of the antrum ?) A woman, ret. 36, with very bad teeth and numerous stumps had a tumour, which had been forming for four years, without pain, and had attained the size of an apple. Distinct fluctuation could be felt. Six weeks previously to admission a tooth had been extracted over the inner half of the cyst, and a quantity of brown, viscid fluid escaped. The swelling soon after again resumed its former dimensions. The bone was not expanded over the tumour, the hard palate was not displaced, nor the eyeball prominent. The swelling was punc- tured from the mouth, above the alveolar process, the fluid evacuated, and tincture of iodine injected. Considerable swelling followed, which lasted for a few days; the tumour then collapsed. Six months later the cheek was rather drawn in, but there .was no further accumulation of fluid. The cure was permanent. A robust man, set. 25, had, six months previously, suffered from toothache of a right molar, accompanied by acute swelling: this yielded after a few days, but some enlargement in the alveolar process, close above the first right molar, was left. No pain in the swelling; the hard palate was arched over the part corresponding to the swelling. When admitted, he had a cyst, the size of a walnut, with thin, bony walls. The outer wall was cut away, and some brown, viscid, ropy matter evacuated. Complete recovery followed. Eight months later the slight depression of the alveolar process, corresponding to the seat of the growth, could scarcely be recognised. These two cases fall into the class of those which were formerly spoken of generally as hydrops of the antrum. I do not think that these flat-walled cavities full of brown viscid matter are dilatations of the antrum. More probably they are formed in the alveolar process, and originate close above the sockets of the teeth. Opportunities of investigating the anatomical condition o£ 7