CAVERNOUS LYMPHANGIOMA. ENCHONDROMA. 679 wound was stuffed with charpie for a while and then allowed to heal, but the cicatrix remained painful and a fresh tumour formed shortly afterwards and broke open the scar of tho former operation. Dr. Seybert was able, some months afterwards, to draw out two small sebaceous cysts by means of a pair of forceps, without enlarging the wound. Cavernous lymphangioma. K. F—, set. 17, a journeyman tailor, came under my care in 1870, for a soft, elastic growth, about the size of the fist, situated under the right deltoid muscle; the skin overlying the tumour was natural, hut the growth was rather hound down by the structures over it. It had existed from his earliest childhood, and had increased gradually. The tumour was taken to be a lipoma. A few days after his admission into the hospital the growth increased in size and became tense; the skin became red, and the patient feverish. Cold was applied, and the symptoms soon subsided. I removed the tumour by two elliptical incisions. It was not invested by a capsule, but gradually became lost in the surrounding tissue, and in dissecting it out, some thin, serous fluid spurted out at several points. The morbid growth consisted of small communicating cavernous spaces, enclosing the fluid men- tioned. It was found necessary to remove the fascia over the deltoid muscle. The wound was filled up with charpie soaked in tincture of iron. Recovery was complete, though somewhat retarded by an abscess which formed in the axilla. On comparing the above case with one recorded below in the section on tumours of the lower extremity, it will be seen that in these tumours the transitory redness and inflammation, the tension of the growth, and the fever occurring without evident cause, all form valuable guides to the diagnosis. Such tumours are most easily mistaken for soft, diffused lipomata. In this case the signs, which in most blood tumours are so characteristic, were absent, viz: the compressibility and erectile properties of the growth. The respiratory movements, too, exerted no appreciable effect upon the swelling. Enchondroma. E• ® 44, was admitted with a tumour in the palm of the hand, which had been growing for ten years and had reached the size of a walnut. The patient was an iron turner, and the origin of the growth was attributed to pressure. The tumour was removed, and found to be situated on tho sheath of one of the tendons.