176 SPONTANEOUS SOFTENING OF BBONCHOOELES. clown to me by my teachers, I look upon these results as not un- favourable. Spontaneous softening of a large bronchocele in ‘an old man. E. II—, set. 65, had. suffered for thirty-five years from a struma of the right side, which had slowly increased to the size of two fists. In the course of two months, it had become soft and increased in size, and was rather painful at the upper part, but without producing any difficulty of breathing. A puncture showed that the greater part of the bronchocele consisted of a cyst, filled with chocolate-coloured fluid mixed with small solid masses; the base was firm. An incision an inch long was made under the spray, a drainage tube left in, and the wound dressed daily with careful antiseptic precautions. Absolutely no inflammatory reaction followed. Three weeks later there was no discharge through the drainage tube. The tumour had collapsed to the size of a small fist, and the opening healed up very shortly afterwards. Six months later the patient was perfectly well. A man, set. 66, who had had from his youth a bronchocele on both sides, noticed, four weeks before admission, a striking increase in size of the left half of the tumour. The growth was so soft that the existence of fluid was suspected; however, a puncture with a small fine scalpel let out only some blood. The swelling now increased though kept down as much as possible by the continuous application of ice. A few days later some pus escaped from the puncture, and he was attacked with erysipelas, which commenced at the wound. Later on, purulent discharge again occurred, and the tumour diminished to a considerable extent; the opening healed up completely. Softening of sarcomatous thyroid tumour. A man, ait. 21, had hadfor some time a “ thick neck,” hut no enlargements of the lymphatic glands. The year previously he was attacked with some inflammation about the neck, lasting hut a short time. A growth was then noticed on the right side of the neck, which had since grown rapidly and given a good deal of pain. When admitted, the patient was in a very low state, with extensive bronchial catarrh, anasarca, and dyspnoea. On the upper part of the right side of the neck was a large soft tumour. An incision was made into the mass, and some softening portions of the growth escaped ; these had the structure of a spindle-celled sarcoma. Slight relief followed. He died a few day later from oedema of the lungs. I supposed that the case was one of softening lympho-sarcoma, hut the post mortem showed that the tumour had probably originated in the left half of the gland ; at any rate, no part of this was to be discovered.