SPECIFIC NATURE OF ERYSIPELAS. 24 cutis. Fluids external to the lymph capillaries may diffuse them- selves through the meshes of the connective tissue of the cutis —the common form of acute dermatitis. This is proved also by the results of attempts to inject the lymphatic vessels of the cutis. Let us follow out this train of thought a little further. If we look upon erysipelas as lymphangitis of the cutis, and distinguish it thus anatomically from ordinary acute dermatitis, the question arises, in what degree are we justified in saying that the cause of erysipelas is a “ specific” one ? Is it really necessary, ac- cording to the views above stated, to assume that there is some- thing special and peculiar ? If we imagine a phlogogenous sub- stance, which is either soluble in the fluids of the body or else suspended in the form of fine molecules, we are met by a further inquiry; may not this same substance, since it can penetrate into the lymphatic vessels and the meshes of the cutis, into the loose subcutaneous cellular tissue, into the fine subcutaneous lymphatics,, or into the veins, set up erysipelas, dermatitis, phlegmon, lym- phangitis or phlebitis? May it not therefore depend merely on accidental circumstances whether one form or another of in- flammation is developed ? I cannot unconditionally answer all these knotty questions in the negative; that is to say, I admit that there is no evidence against the supposition that all these forms of inflammation are capable of being set up by this same irritating, phlogogenous material. But I shall at once be told “ there is, then, nothing that speaks in favour of there being a specific erysipelas poison/’ I answer as follows :—The theory that erysipelas is set up by some material which diffuses itself through the superficial lymphatic networks of the cutis, presupposes several conditions. (i.) That this material gets into these lymphatic vessels. (a.) That in these vessels it either keeps or receives its irri- tating properties; in no case can it well part with them. (3.) That the passage of the lymph along the surface meets with no obstacles, such, for instance, as would be offered by coagu- lation. (4.) That it is not carried off too rapidly, If it be admitted that a substance possesses these definite pro- perties, and can only act under these definite conditions, we may call it “ specific/’ Nothing at all is alleged against the assertion that there may be many such specific agents.