18 ETIOLOGY OF HOSPITAL GANGRENE. zymotic germs, and that these germs, once fully formed and trans- ferred to a wound, readily increase and develope in the same way. At one time or another, however, this fungus, however specific its nature, must have originated de novo, though how the genesis took place we can scarcely even guess. Moating everywhere in the atmosphere are germs which may develop various properties, according as the conditions in which they are placed prove favour- able to such development, such, for instance, as the degree of moisture and the like. We can conceive that these germs may develop in the acid fermentation of pus, or in the alkaline deposits on the edges of vessels containing urine; then they become dried up again, placed under congenial conditions they germinate, and undergo certain metamorphoses; thus, the process goes on until finally, having passed through a complicated and probably an ever slightly-varying cycle of changes, they acquire those properties by virtue of which their activity reaches a maximum, and by which the tissues are so rapidly eaten away and destroyed. This view is in accordance with those theories which would refer all these germ diseases as far as possible to one original source—perhaps the peni- cillium micrococcus. The infrequency of hospital gangrene renders another explanation possible, viz. that this is a rare form of micro- coccus, and is only introduced into hospitals now and again in the linen or cotton fibre of the bed coverings or horse-hair mattresses, or in straw palliasses. No doubt these views will, before long, be modified; the investigation of the problem is unquestionably of great interest, and I should have applied myself more closely to the subject, or persuaded my pupils to do so, had it not been dangerous to our patients. Being confident that hospital gangrene was readily amenable to treatment, I requested on one occasion that I might be entrusted with the care of the patients so affected. The conse- quence was that the disease attacked a patient in one of my own wards. It does not do to play with fire even though one should be a member of the fire brigade. As to my second statement, viz. that the contagious material is definite in its action, I support this assertion on the observation, that the infective power is comparatively weak, forasmuch as the contagious material is not so much transferred through the atmos- phere or by a third person, as directly from one case to another. Many may dissent from this opinion, but they will probably agree with me that the contagious material has but a short life, and is