48 EPITHELIOMA OF THE EAR. days, to leeching, &c. She then consulted Dr. Brunner, who found her in the condition described, and removed a polypus-like mass of granulations which blocked up the external auditory passage. Examined microscopically, the growth was lound to be undoubted epithelioma. When I first saw the patient the appearance was so exactly like that of caries of the internal ear that I could not be convinced till I had myself examined the growth, a portion of which was again removed. I could only confirm my colleague’s dictum after examination. The growth was a perfect specimen of epithelioma. We came then to the conclusion that in all probability the growth had extended through the petrous boue and given rise to the facial paralysis. Neither the cervical nor the submaxillary glauds were enlarged. Interference under the circumstances would obviously have been futile. As the disease extended, the parts about the tragus and the mastoid process became involved. The growth never protruded beyond the external auditory meatus. The pain increased so much that constant hypodermic injections of morphia were neces- sary, and she died of exhaustiou a year after the commencement of the disease. Unfortunately no post mortem was permitted. Epithelioma of the ear. A. S-—, set. 50, male. Two years before admission some warty prominences formed on the left concha; these grew rapidly, and for three quarters of a year had been ulcerated. When first seen the entire ear was converted into a cancerous mass. The neighbouring lymphatic glands were not affected. The ear was removed, but the patient died of multiple pyaemia nine days after the operation. A. B—, set. 58. Ten years previously a small nodule had made its appear- ance on the left concha, which in the course of three years only attained the dimensions of a pea. The patient then received a blow on the tumour, which caused the growth to become very painful, and to ulcerate. When seen the cancer was the size of a bean, at the upper part of the concha. It was excised, and there was no recurrence eleven months later. In the case of a child., set. 3^ years, with congenital atresia and imperfect development of both ears, I endeavoured to make an auditory canal, but the attempt failed; the wounds healed without any trouble and the condition remained unaltered. Miscellaneous. Distension of the frontal sinus. ]\p ) jcf. very subject to obstinate colds. Three years before admission he had suffered from attacks of severe pain over the right side of the forehead, which lasted, as a rule, from about ten in the morning until the evening. A year