183 TREATMENT OP SPINAL CARIES. herself more stiffly than before, was less inclined to move about, and could not speak well. I examined her most carefully, but could find nothing wrong; a few months later, a prominence was noticed on the left side, close to the spine, which proved to be a chronic abscess, and soon after curvature began to develop in the lower dorsal vertebrae ; the patient was taken off to a southern climate, but a few months later numerous abscesses broke, and the excessive suppuration so exhausted her that she died, about fifteen months after the commencement of the second attack of the disease. The parents and relations were healthy, with the exception of the mother, who was delicate and of weakly frame, and who had a slight attack of haemoptysis, about a year before the death of the child. Such cases show how powerless we are against constitutional predisposition. I need hardly say that I always assign the first place to such hygienic and dietetic conditions as may seem most important- for the case under treatment, but how seldom is it found possible to carry out these regulations. As for local remedies, I used to employ setons, issues, and tinct. of iodine, as was recommended by my teachers. The inefficacy of these remedies led me later to give them up completely; constant application of ice, for three or four months (especially in cases of commencing disease in girls), is of some benefit, though unfortu- nately, the effect of the remedy on the pain and inability to move was only of a transitory character in my patients. Formerly, I used to keep these children always lying, generally in the prone position, as I had been taught to do; in some cases, I employed extension by weights, and more recently have sometimes used Thomas's splints. It is often difficult or well nigh impracticable for poor people, and even for those of the middle class (the bour- geoisie), to keep their children constantly at rest; if the children be of a lively disposition, they require the constant attention of some one at their bedside, or else they are more frequently sitting up than lying down in bed. I have never seen any remarkable advantage arise from this constant lying or a more rapidly favourable issue; at times the curvature seems to be somewhat improved, but this becomes as bad as before as soon as the child stands up. Latterly, if patients have no pain with curvature of the dorsal or lumbar vertebrae, I have always allowed them to get about as much as they pleased, wearing a stiff jacket. These jackets should be made ol the lightest possible material and surround the pelvis, so that the upper half ol the vertebral column above the curvature is supported in a sort of funnel, which takes off all the weight from