175 TREATMENT OE BRONCHOCELE. externally, when she was six years old, and at the age of twelve, had not grown again; in the other older child, the goitre, of tolerable size, was still existing at the age of sixteen, and had to be from time to time treated by the injection of iodine; usually one injection every six months was sufficient. All four children were through- out placed under the same condition of life. I have been repeatedly assured by mothers here, in Vienna, that their girls who, when children, had very thick necks, lost this con- dition on reaching puberty, whilst in other girls bronchoceles first developed at this very time. The following case, which I observed in private practice, is of an interesting nature : A strong young fellow, about sixteen years of age, came to me with a diffused bilateral bronchocele, of considerable size, wbicb bad commenced fourteen days previously. The skin overlying the bronchocele was so much stretched, as to seem almost transparent. In all parts there was distinct pulsation in the bronchocele. The heart sounds were natural, and as there was no exophthalmus, my impression first was, that the case was one of commencing morbus Basedowii. One of my colleagues, whom I consulted, was of the same opinion. Notwithstanding that some of my colleagues were opposed to the treatment, I ordered inunction with iodine applications and the internal administration of iodide of potassium in ordinary doses, without however, expecting much from the treatment. I did not employ injections of iodine, for in strongly pulsating tumours these appear to me to be dangerous. Recovery was remarkably rapid; in six weeks the bronchocele had entirely disappeared. I was interested to find that Liicke has observed several similar cases. I bave elsewhere mentioned the unfortunate results of injecting alcohol into a bronchocele.1 Possibly decomposition would occur less readily if rectified or absolute alcohol were injected, but still the entire injection might, by ill luck, be thrown into a vein, and fatal intoxication be the result. It certainly would be desirable in parenchymatous injections for bronchocele to replace the iodine by some other less dangerous substance. The few attempts that I have made with Bowler’s tincture, a remedy certainly quite free from danger, were unsuccessful. Between i860 and 1876, of 93 cases of bronchocele operated on by myself only 18 died, and, of 36 cases in which I extirpated a goitre J3 only were fatal. In opposition to the pessimist views handed ' In my work on ‘ Cocco-bacteria Septica,’ p. S6.