ALKALINE URINE AND CALCULUS. 274 Operations for Stone. It is a well known fact that lithiasis is very unequally distributed throughout the world. Thus, in Zurich, between i860 and 1867, I met with only five cases. In Vienna, between 1868 and 1876, seventy-four cases came under observation, not including cases which I saw occasionally in consultation, but which did not come under my treatment.1 Most of my cases came from Hungary and lower Austria. There may be reasons for this, but it does not ex- actly prove that the disease is most common in those countries. The operation of lithotomy is frequently practised in Austro- Hungary, as well as in Boumania and Servia. In the few remarks that I have to make on operations for stone, I am well aware that I have no new information to give, and that my slight experience can have but little weight. Little, however, has been written about the affection in Germany, for calculus is not often met with. My colleagues, therefore, may desire to learn the results of my experience. In patients with stone, whose urine is alkaline and contains blood, a certain amount of preparation is always necessary, whether litho- tomy or lithotrity be proposed. With pure oxalic calculi, blood often occurs in the urine after much moving about, riding, etc., without any great amount of disease of the bladder. The symptom will disappear if the patient be simply kept at rest in bed. If the urine be alkaline and turbid, containing muco-pus, and occasionally blood, a long course of treatment is necessary before operation is undertaken. We ought not to operate as long as the urine is strongly alkaline. The interesting experiments of Simon and Men- zel have shown in the most decisive way that normal acid urine has no phlogistic properties, even when it is forced into the tissues. Alkaline urine becomes exceedingly phlogogenous, and at times will cause downright gangrene. Simon thinks that this latter effect is only produced when the urine is extravasated in such quantity that it forcibly stretches the tissues. But the same thing happens when only a small amount escapes; the phlegmonous inllammation is in part set up by the ammoniacal ingredients, and in part extends by the ferment. I have already (p. 261) pointed out the remedies 1 In the General Hospital at Vienna there is a distinct department, under the charge of a special professor, for diseases of the urinary organs. [Ed.]