201 CAVERNOUS BLOOD TUMOTJR AND LIPOMA. SARCOMA. ment of cavernous tissue (Liicke) was primary. Both new formations were in equal proportions throughout the entire tumour. H. B—, set. 26, a remarkably strong man, stated that five or six months previously one of his fellow-labourers had remarked a swelling below his right scapula which caused the bone to project from the thorax in a remarkable manner. The tumour seemed to be lobulated, and at some parts iluctuation could be detected. It was painless, and reached from the upper border to below the inferior angle of the scapula, so that it lay partly below the shoulder- blade and partly between that bone and the vertebral column. A large wound had to be made in order to remove the growth, and the operation was accom- panied by severe haemorrhage. Unhealthy suppuration of the cellular tissue followed, and septic symptoms. Constant wet packing was employed so as to promote profuse sweating. The patient recovered and more than a year later was free from recurrence. I should not have been surprised if the growth had recurred, for, on account of the severe bleeding and the collapse of the tumour, it was very difficult to distinguish the morbid growth from the normal fat, seeing that the lobes of the tumour extended far around into the surrounding adipose tissue. 8'mail-celled medullary sarcoma, in part spindle-celled, originating in the suhciclaneous cellular tissue of the fascia of the hack. M. W—, a strong man, set. 67, had previously enjoyed good health. Some nine months previously he had noticed a small tumour in the skin of the back, on the right side of the vertebral column; the growth became painful and the skin over it reddened, so that it gave the appearance of a slowly forming abscess. However, the growth constantly increased, and in the course of two months had reached the size of a foetal head. The tumour was then com- pletely removed, but soon after the wound had healed recurrence took place, whereupon it was removed a second time, five months after the first operation. Two months later, the man came under my care. The tumour had then again recurred in the form of numerous detached nodules lying close to each other and extending into the muscular, fatty and cellular tissues of the back. I extir- pated the tumour thoroughly, removing a large portion of skin, together with the muscles and fascia in the neighbourhood of the growth. Scarcely had the wound healed when fresh recurrence took place in the cicatrix. I made a final attempt to save the patient by further extensive excision of the nodules and the parts around them, but I had to give up the attempt, for although the dissections extended down to the arches of the vertebras, there still appeared suspicious spots deeper down still. The patient died of exhaustion a few months later. After death it was found that neither the axillary nor the bronchial glands, nor any of the organs were diseased. The duration of the disease was a little over fifteen months.