337 MEDULLARY SARCOMA OP NATES. subsequently that total removal of the tumour would have been quite impracticable; moreover, numerous metastatic tumours existed in the liver and the lungs. If I met with another case of this nature, I should unite the capsule firmly with sutures to the abdominal wall before proceeding to evidement of the tumour. Medullary spindle-celled sarcoma. B. H—, set. 29, a joiner, a short, strong man, noticed in January, 1865, a hard lump the size of a pea, between the nates two inches above the anus. The nodule was situated in the skin, and at the outset gave him little discom- fort beyond a burning sensation if it were touched. After a time, however, it grew more rapidly and became painful. A medical man, who was called in, took the tumour to be a boil, and ordered poultices. A few days later an incision was made but blood only escaped: the wound would not heal, and a fungus-like mass protruded through the opening. In May, 1865 (four months after the commencement of the disease), the growth was cauterised with a hot iron; this did, however, hut little good, for directly after the eschar separated, fresh growths protruded; the surface became gangrenous, hsemorrhage took place from it at times, and the patient lost strength. When he was admitted at the end of November, 1865, though rather pale, he was a well-nourished man. An ulcerated fungating tumour, the size of the palm of the hand extended upwards from the anus for about four inches. I completely extirpated the growth, taking care to cut through skin that to all appearance was healthy, a full inch wide of the base of the tumour. In a month the patient was discharged with the wound nearly healed. Four months later he returned ; the wound had completely cicatrised, hut very shortly after this had happened, a fresh nodule became perceptible at the old spot. I found on examination, an ulcerated mass, the ■size of an egg, situated in the cicatrix ; immediately around were several isolated movable tumours of the same size. I advised immediate operation, but to this the patient would not consent, and he died a month later of trismus and tetanus. From first to last, the disease had existed for sixteen months. Cancerous disease, developing in a congenital coccygeal tumour. Therese L •, set. 55, an ansemic, weakly woman was admitted with a tumour over the sacrum, of tolerably firm consistence. Her mother had told her that the growth was of congenital origin, and at birth was the •size of a hazel-nut. The tumour gave no pain, and increased slowly for the first few years, but scarcely any growth had taken place since she was nine years old. As the result of a fall at that time, the tumour became inflamed and swollen. An opening was made into it by a medical man and pus and blood were let out; the opening had never closed 22