DILATATION OF STRICTURE. URETHROTOMY. 271 up. The cicatrices, like those of hard chancres on the glans, take a long time to atrophy. If the gonorrhoeal infiltration around the urethra is allowed to remain quiescent for a long time, it contracts and takes on the character of atrophied cicatricial tissue. At the same time the tissue, as it becomes drawn together and closes up, forms an annular stricture. In such cases we may sometimes be lucky enough to succeed the first time a bougie is passed, in rupturing the stricture if thin and annular. The disease will then be as good as cured, and will require no long after-treatment. If the ring of the stricture be thick, it is very difficult to dilate, even when there is no keloid tissue about it • in such cases, internal urethrotomy is far more applicable than in keloid strictures, and ought to be employed far more frequently. It is always very difficult to estimate the thickness of the ring of stricture. On this point even the most ex- perienced authorities may be at fault. I know of one case in which first Civiale and then, a few years later, Thompson had performed internal urethrotomy. In spite of the most careful after-treatment, the stricture, which probably had not been completely divided, con- tracted to such an extent that I was forced to begin the dilatation with the smallest instrument. This treatment, the patient with most constant fortitude allowed to be continued for two years, so as if possible to restore the normal dimensions of the urethra (the case is still under treatment). I have no doubt that even in such a case, atrophy of the cicatricial tissue will eventually occur, so that no further contraction may be feared. No doubt the same result might have been obtained more quickly by performing another urethro- tomy of a more extensive nature, but the patient had rather lost faith in this proceeding since he had been operated on twice unsuc- cessfully. I do not consider it of any material importance whether the stricture is divided from behind forwards, or in the reverse direction on a staff; nor does it matter what instrument is used. Lach surgeon will accustom himself to some one mode of operating, especially as he-is not likely to meet with many cases. Therein consists really and essentially the art of the so-called “specialists” and it must not be disparaged. Generally speaking in this respect it is opposed to the character of us German professors ; we consider it of more importance to test the practical value of all rational methods. A man must live to the age of Methuselah if he is to thoroughly carry out practically all the methods of operating for