264 TREATMENT OF CYSTITIS AND CYSTO-PYELITIS. acid, silicate of soda, curds, etc. These patients are very intolerant of injections into the bladder; the urethra and bladder are highly sensitive, and, as a rule, they tire of the multiplicity of remedies, and object to any new treatment, for fear lest their condition, which, at the least, is endurable, should be rendered worse. One would suppose that if these bacteria are really formed in the urine, they would be washed away by the free use of water, and the passing of large quantities of urine. If ammoniacal urine be injected into the bladder of a dog, the alkalescence lasts but a short time; the bacteria, together with the ferment, are soon got rid of, and in a few days the urine is again normal. I suspect that perhaps the place where the bacteria are formed is situated in some angle of the pelvis of the kidney, or in some pouch of the mucous membrane of the bladder. Hitherto, I have had no opportunity of confirming this idea by post-mortem examination. The ex-centric pains and irritability are very troublesome, and in many cases exceedingly severe. Such are the constant desire to pass urine, severe pain in the perineum after micturition, painful erections especially towards morning, and a constant, moderately severe, burning sensation in the urethra, of nervous origin. I have never yet succeeded in completely relieving these symptoms, or in guarding effectually against their return. Suppositories of morphia and belladonna, frequent warm baths, chloral, lupulin, bromide of potassium, quinine, and the like, all give but temporary relief. The patients will soon abandon these remedies after they have given them a trial. It is a matter of surprise to me that none of the patients whom I had under observation employed morphia injections on themselves; most of them had a great horror of the drug, even when they had tested its efficacy more than once. I conclude ffom this fact that the pain cannot be so very intense. As a rule, these patients are in a highly nervous, often very hypo- chondriacal, state. They are tormented by the persistence, more than the intensity of the pain. After a few years they make up their minds that they have no chance of ever recovering. Often they experience a sensation of relief amounting almost to convalescence, when after a severe exacerbation they return to what they call their « proper state of disease/5 At least, they have the impression for the time that they are doing better, and feel, therefore, more comfortable than if they remained always in the same condition. Of the pareses which may succeed this malady, 1 have only