52 LUPUS—CIIRONIC INFILTRATION OF CHEEK. was enlarged and a drainage tube inserted. The pain and swelling had com- pletely disappeared when he was discharged and the suppuration was very slight in amount. Lupus. While at Zurich I met with fifteen cases, all females—one a child. My usual treatment for this affection consists in destroying the diseased surface with caustic potash, taking care that the action extends well into the sound tissues. In one instance I removed with the knife a tubercular, hypertrophic lupoid growth from the corner of the mouth of a woman aged 45. Although the whole of the diseased tissue was removed, it recurred locally a few months after. I then destroyed it with caustic. The patient died six months after of tuberculosis. Lupus recurring in a newly-formed nose. C. J—, set. 45, liad suffered from lupus of the nose from her youth, which had completely destroyed the organ. Fourteen years previously a complete rhiuoplastic operation had been performed from the forehead, with a very good result as far as the appearance was concerned. When admitted there were numerous scattered nodules about the nose and in the neighbourhood of the cheek. The patient was transferred to Professor Hebra’s wards. Cases of chronic infiltration of the cheek with granulation material (granulations infiltration) were not uncommon at Zurich. They occurred chiefly in children, and were characterised chiefly by the breaking down and suppuration of the central parts, leading to the formation of an ulcerous cavity. By clearing off the skin, scraping away the spongy granulations, and applying caustic potash, rapid healing was induced and good cicatrices were left. A few years ago an enthusiast on the subject of tumours described these infiltrations as a new kind of myxoma. The following case is worthy of record as an illustration of the remakable effect of arsenic. The etiology of the disease could not be positively made out. 537. Her father was confined in a lunatic asylum; her mother died in the hospital of some disease of the stomach. She herself had enjoyed .'ood health up to the age of 21. The catamenia then came for the first time, but did not occur subsequently. She was subject to frequent acute abdominal