128 MALIGNANT STRICTURE OR (ESOPHAGUS. able to swallow pulpy food just as in the latter he may still be able to pass the water in a tolerably large stream. Both strictures, therefore, may be permeable, and yet will not admit an instrument. In strictures of the oesophagus the difficulty may be due to the fact that the dilatation above the stricture is so considerable that the point of the bougie becomes lost in the sacculation, and so fails to hit on the point of constriction. If the stricture be caused by a tumour in the wall of the oesophagus, and this wall is felt to be hard and irregular, it is sometimes impossible to work through it by ordinary elastic sounds, or even the best made English instru- ments. In the case of an elderly gentleman who was only able to swallow pulpy food, but who could swallow this with tolerable ease, I was unable, like some other surgeons who had made attempts, to pass the ordinary instruments through the narrow part of the oesophagus, even after much trouble. I then had a long conical sound of lead made; with this I was easily able to pass through the stricture, merely allowing the instrument to find a way through by its own weight. The daily dilatation with the bougie for car- cinomatous strictures is the only thing that we can do to preserve the unfortunate patient from death by starvation. I am certain, however, that this daily stretching and irritation of the carcinoma hastens its softening. I saw a case once, in Berlin, where a carci- noma of the oesophagus had made its way through into the left lower lobe of the lung, so that the patient, who was accustomed to pass an instrument every day for himself, thrust it into one of the bronchi. I know of another case where the bougie perforated the aorta. “ Also vorsicht.,; Cicatricial stricture of the oesophagus of syphilitic origin. A man, set. gg, had suffered for some months from catarrhal inflammation of the hack of the throat, accompanied by much slimy discharge. Just behind the cricoid cartilage a small annular contracted area could be felt. Broad condylomata were seen about the angles of the mouth and the tongue. Deglutition was much interfered with. Under treatment for six weeks with the Decoctum Zittmanni and the use of bougies during six months, he completely recovered. I saw him two years after this, and he was then perfectly well. The following case of traumatic stricture of the oesophagus is remarkable: A man, set. 25, of slight build, had a very tight stricture of the oesophagus,