OSSIFICATION OF THE FASCIA OF THE BACK. 199 both sides of the thorax, cough, dyspnoea and delirium. His medical attendant pronounced the affection to be inflammation of the lungs and of the brain. Probably, however, it was a case of severe pneumonia, with the so-called nervous symptoms. Complete recovery gradually followed, with the single exception that during convalescence the vision of his left eye became affected, and in a few days was completely lost, a most remarkable symptom to which we shall return later on. During the two or three years previous to admission, the man stated that his condition had not appreciably altered; the process of ossification seemed to have become stationary, or at any rate, went on very slowly. When admitted the patient was seen to be of stunted frame, ill-nourished, and of rather dull intelligence. When standing or walking, the body was flexed at the lumbar vertebra. The head was craned forwards, and buried between the shoulders; the arms did not hang straight down Horn the shoulder-joints, but were somewhat abducted, and a little flexed at the elbows. On looking at the patient, the point that struck the eye most prominently was the number of abnormal inequalities and prominences of the back (see Pig. 13). Immediately beneath the skin, and taking, as it were, the lower part of the lumbar spine as a central point, numerous irregularly arranged flat surfaces, humps, and ridges of bony hardness could be felt, from which other similar flat ridges and spurs branched off in every direction. Prom this same central point, one especially hard, strong ridge extended outwards and downwards into the mass of the glut ecus maximus muscle; at the end it broke up into numerous small processes, which branched off laterally in different directions, and—like the parent ridges—ended in three tolerably sharp-pointed extremities, lying free in the muscle. By introducing the point of the finger under these processes, and moving them about, they were found to be elastic, and could be bent from the points of attachment. Manipulation gave the patient no particular discomfort. On both sides of the vertebral column, over the sacro-spinalis muscle, were numerous perfectly immovable excrescences and bosses of bony hardness most irregular in arrangement. These latter ridges did not correspond to any particular muscular bundles, and were perfectly unsymmetrical on the two sides. On the whole, there was rather more disease on the left side than on the right. In the neighbourhood of the latissimus dorsi muscle, on either side, lay another bony mass, immediately below the skin ; on the left side, the muscle felt as if its entire circumference were thickened and converted into bone. The inferior angle of the scapula could neither be seen nor felt, and appeared to have coalesced with the ossified muscle into a single mass. The lower edge of the latissimus dorsi was especially sharp where it forms the posterior boundary of the axilla. At this point the ossification abruptly ceased with a rounded oil: extremity, just before the muscle reached its point of insertion into the humerus. In the deltoid—usually a favourite spot for pathological ossification—there was no especial bony hardness, but the insertion of the muscle into the humerus could bo felt as an abnormally tense band; the more so that the panniculus adiposus was at this point but ill developed, and the rest of the