446 LIPOMA. ENCHONDROHA. Osteotomy for riclcetty deformities. Case of congenital disloca- tion of toe. Case of pes gigas. Case of congenital absence of femur. Fatty tumour of the thigh. A man, sat. fi5> came under my care with a tumour the size of his head, at the hack of the thigh. On removal it proved to be situated beneath the fascia, lhe growth had existed for four years, and had increased slowly, without giving any pain. I suspected from the symptoms that it was a case of myxo-sarcoma. An almost exactly similar case was met with in a woman ffit. 46. The fact that the growth had existed for only one year, led me to the conclusion that it was a sarcoma, for I could scarcely believe that a fatty tumour could reach the size of a man’s head in twelve months only. The tumour was removed, but the patient died of septicaemia. Enchondroma in the sheath of a tendon. Result of Chopart’s amputation. Herr X—, act. 35, a stout, strongly built man, had suffered for many years from a slowly growing, moderately firm tumour, which was situated over the second tarsal bone. Over the upper part of the swelling was an opening from which ill-smelling, purulent secretion escaped. I removed the tumour, together with the toe, leaving the base of the metatarsal bone. Unhealthy suppuration and septic fever followed the operation. The anterior part of the foot became involved, and I therefore performed Chopart’s amputation. Anatomical examination of the tumour showed that it was composed of carti- lage, and was situated in the sheath of the long extensor tendon of the second toe ; in the centre of the mass was a cavity the size of a walnut, full of ichorous fluid; a piece of necrosed bone (a partly ossified portion of the chondroma) lay in the cavity. I saw this patient two years later. The foot was then in good position, without any tendency to equinus, but still the patient only used his foot as if he had a wooden leg, and did not utilise the mobility of the ankle-joint. The stump was often painful and in a constant state of perspiration. I was not particularly pleased with the power of walking on this stump, and am of opinion that it is no better than that obtained by PirogofPs operation. Ecchondrosis ossificans bursata on the lower end of the femur. B—, rot. 27, had fallen nine years previously on his right thigh; since that time he bad often felt slight pain in the part, though lie never walked lame.