412 GANGRENOUS ULCERATION. PERIARTICULAR ABSCESS. lie was fairly strong. The line of demarcation was situated in the upper half of the leg, sound skin extending to a lower level on the posterior than on the anterior part. The leg and foot were in a state of mummification, and at the line of demarcation the hones were completely denuded to the extent of an inch. The hones were sawn through subperiosteally an inch and a half above the line of demarcation, and flaps fashioned from the living soft parts. With the exception of a slight attack of lymphangitis, he made an uninter- rupted recovery, and had a good very stump. This was a typical case of gangrene—the result of thrombosis after typhus—of the kind described by Estlander in the ‘ Archiv fur Klin. Chir./ Bd. xii, Ileft 3. Ulceration of the leg. Lengthening of the limb. Josepha E—, set. 13, a very neglected child, suffered from gangrenous- ulceration of the leg, which was treated by the application of fuming sul- phuric acid. Exfoliation of the tibia followed and the patient recovered. The affected limb was about a centimetre and a half longer than the sound one. Ulceration of the leg. A man, set. 36, came under treatment, who twenty-six years previously had been struck on the right leg by a falling tree; the injury was followed by- considerable cellulitis, and some destruction of the skin. The resulting cica- trix had ever since been weak and imperfect. After a time, all the integu- ments of the leg and the foot became thickened, and assumed a condition of elephantiasis. From the knee to the foot, all the tissues were extensively degenerated and ulcerated, and had been so for many years; the foetor of the ulceration was abominable. Fomentations, compresses, digital compression of the femoral artery, and many other remedies were tried in vain. Finally the limb was amputated, close above the knee, by means of an anterior flap^ The parts healed up remarkably favourably, but twenty-three days after the operation the man was suddenly seized with a rigor, and the stump became blue, swollen and painful; three days later complete gangrene followed, collapse set in and the patient died two days after the rigor. As we had been led to expect, the heart was found to be fatty and the femoral artery thrombosed. Periarticular Abscess of the Knee. In the early stages of this disease, the diagnosis is not always perfectly easy, though it soon becomes established by the absence of any loss of function in the joint. In none of my cases was the.