TREATMENT OP HEMORRHOIDS. 253 raised to a red heat; it will be found better to abstain from touching the cauterised surface with sponges. In this way the entire operation may be performed without any loss of blood. I am careful not to remove the entire tumour, in order to prevent the formation of a cicatricial stricture. If three or four tumours require removal, care should be taken to leave strips of mucous membrane between each of them. Some narrowing of the tube is apt to follow, five or six weeks after the operation, causing the patient some trouble in defecation. In a month or six weeks, however, the cicatrix yields again, and the annoyance disappears. In order to save the patient this discomfort I have been in the habit lately of removing not more than two of the larger tumours, above and below or on either side. The bowels should be properly cleared out for several days beforehand by castor oil and injections. On the day of operation I give some opium, in order to prevent any action of the bowels following shortly after operation. On the third day I give a dose of castor oil. Care should be taken not to cauterise the anal folds, as this causes unnecessary discomfort to the patient. The pain, which is usually tolerably severe during the first few days, can be controlled by cold. Cloths wrung out of iced water should be laid between the nates, and frequently changed. No local after treatment is necessary. I find that by this plan of treatment all danger can be avoided, and a cure most quickly effected. Hemorrhoidal Prolapse. In one case of this nature spontaneous recovery took place. The patient was admitted with the prolapse strangulated and gangrenous. In due course it dropped off, and recovery took place without any general constitutional disturbance. In a few cases a cure was effected by taking away two or three small folds by means of the galvano-caustic loop; in nine cases the application of fuming sulphuric acid was very successful. On the value of this latter method I have already made some remarks in the ‘ Wien. Med. Wochens.,’ 1871, No. 35. All the patients (eighty-one) who came under my treatment for this affection were cured. In a few instances I know that the con- dition returned in a slight degree, but in most of the cases the