454 POPLITEAL ANEU11ISM : ERGOT INJECTIONS: LIGATURE. cause, he had experienced pain in the calf of the leg; after a few weeks this disappeared. A month before admission the pain recurred, and after a fort- night lie noticed a swelling in the right popliteal space, which laid not mate- rially increased up to the time of admission. The knee-joint was flexed at an obtuse angle. Situated in the popliteal space was a sharply-defined pul- sating tumour, the size of the fist, in which a rasping murmur was audible. The overlying integuments were stretched, but freely movable. The patient in other respects appeared healthy, and there was no rigidity of the arteries. By forcible flexion the pulsation could be diminished, but not entirely con- trolled. Compression, partly instrumental, partly digital, was employed during seventeen days, but the patient complained so much that the treat- ment had frequently to be discontinued for several hours. At first the aneu- rism seemed to become more solid, but eventually we were obliged to give up the compression. I then adopted the plan recommended by vonLangenbeck, and injected two grins, of the extract of ergot between the skin and the sac of the aneurism. Slight inflammatory swelling about tlie seat of puncture was the only result. As the aneurism then commenced to increase rather rapidly and became more diffused, I ligatured the artery in Hunter’s canal; the pulsation then ceased, the aneurism diminished in size and became harder, and the oedema of the leg subsided. Twenty-three days after the ligature, haemorrhage occurred, which was controlled for the time by pressure, but was repeated the next day. Dr. Czerny then tied the artery in Scarpa’s triangle and the haemorrhage ceased. Two days later bleeding again took place from the proximal end of the site of the first ligature, but not so severely as on the first occasion. After an unsuccessful attempt to secure the artery at the seat of haemorrhage, a tampon soaked in perchloride of iron was applied, and no further bleeding took place. The second ligature came away on the twenty-fourth day. By means of extension with a weight and pulley, the limb was completely straightened. When he was discharged, four months after admission, the aneurism was still soft and pul- sated feebly at one point. A year later I heard that he was in good health and able to walk well with a stick and a high heel; all pulsation had disap- peared. Traumatic aneurism. Franz M—, aet. 42. Three weeks before admission he was wounded acci- dentally in the right thigh by a sword, which passed from the upper and outer to the lower and inner part. The haemorrhage soon ceased on the application of a bandage and the wound healed rapidly, but a pulsating tumour developed at the time, and increased in size up to admission. When I saw him there was a flat pulsating tumour at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the right thigh. Signoroni’s compressor was applied, and the patient very soon learnt to manage the instrument well for himself. From time to time, also, the entire extremity was bandaged. After sixteen days the aneurism had distinctly diminished and the pulsation ceased. The compressor was applied during another month, by which time the aneurism