CONTENTS. XU PAGE phoma. Medullary lymphoma and lyinpho-s&rcoma. Case ef primary (?) epithelial oaneer of glands . . . 142 Section C.—Diseases of the Thyroid Body.—Various forms of bronchocele-—Clinical and pathological characteristics. Cases of broncliocele treated by puncture—by injection of iodine (remarks on 20 cases)—by chloride of zinc paste—by subcutaneous laceration —by tenotomy of sterno-mastoid—by extirpation (remarks on 18 cases). Three cases of extirpation of bronchoceles. Case of cyst bursting into pharynx. Cases of cyst treated by injection and incision. Cases of malignant bronchocele. Cases of abscess in thyroid. Case of bronchocele during pregnancy; tracheotomy. General remarks on treatment of bronchocele by iodine injections. Cases of softening of bronchocele .... 1,156 CHAPTER IX. DISEASES OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. Case of dislocation of third cervioal vertebra. Case of subluxation of cervical vertebras. Angular curvature—Case. Case of necrosis of lumbar vertebras. Remarks on treatment of vertebral cartes. Treatment of abscess. Case of mistaken diagnosis in retro-pha- ryngeal abscess. Remarks on tumours of vertebral column. Lateral curvature—treatment of. Cases of spina bifida . 177 CHAPTER X. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BACK AND BREAST. Section A.—Injuries and Diseases of the Thokax, Back, etc.— Cases of penetrating wound of back. Gunshot wound. Case of fractured ribs with pneumothorax. Chronic periostitis and cartes of the ribs—Cases and remarks. Case of encysted empyefna. Resection of ribs for empyema. Case of partial pneumothorax after paracentesis. Aneurism of thyroid axis. Case of, aortic aneurism bursting into oesophagus. Paralysis of serrati muscles. Case of ossification of tho fascia of the back. Case of cyst of back treated by injection. Case of multiple soft fibromata. Case of racemose angioma; removal. Cavernous blood tumour and lipoma; removal. Cases of sarcoma of the back—recurrent spindle-celled— melanotic. Case of sarcoma of thorax of long standing . . 190 Section B.—Diseases of the Breast.—Case of neuralgia of the breast. Cases of hypertrophy. Sub-mammary lipoma, simulating hypertrophy. Involution cyst of mamma. Remarks on adeno-