CASES OP CARBOLIC ACID POISONING. 10 surprise, became of a dark reddish-brown (bierbraun) colour. He at once replaced the carbolic acid in this case by other disinfecting substances.” As I have stated above, it happens once in a way with us that the urine does not become green in cases treated with carbolic acid; such an exception is exceedingly rare ; almost every patient treated on this plan has green urine. At first we paid but little attention to the symptom unless it lasted a long time, or was strongly marked. Unfortunately, several cases of severe poison- ing—some of them fatal—forced upon our notice the danger arising from absorption of carbolic acid. Nor is it only in washing out the wound or using the spray, that the risk is incurred. In many persons the dry carbolic gauze dressings are sufficient to turn the urine a very deep olive green; one of my assistants had dark green urine merely from repeatedly dipping his finger (the skin of which was unbroken) in carbolic solution. True he was exposed to the spray also for some time. Dr. Wolfler, on his return from England, thought that all this might depend on the impurity of our carbolic acid, so we obtained chemically pure acid, but the results were the same. Then I procured the carbolic acid from the English manufactory which supplies Lister■ the only difference seemed to be that the absorption effects were rather more severe. How are we to account for these facts ? Must not the explanation be that the conditions of absorption and excretion among our hetero- geneous population differ from those of the English race ? As a rule, I am rather sceptical about such hypotheses, but here I can see no other solution. In illustration of my remarks, let me here narrate three cases of severe carbolic poisoning, which, fortunately ended in recovery. Case.—I opened a chronic abscess in the thigh of a child three years old, under i per cent, carbolic spray and introduced a drainage tube. Antiseptic dressings, consisting of eight layers of gauze wrung out ol 5 Per cent, carbolic acid, a double layer of absorbent paper, and then a thick layer of jute, were applied, and the whole was kept in position by a gauze bandage. Two hours later it was found necessary to renew the dressing. Three hours afterwards the child began to vomit, an f became very restless. The sickness persisted and collapse set in. The absiess had been opened at ten a.m. and at five p.m. the temperature was 97'6°. Wine and acetic ether were ordered, and the carbolised bandage taken off. The symptoms continued through the night, and the next mormiug the child was completely unconscious (temp. 96°). By means of stimulants and artificial nourishment the child at length revived,