148 PRIMARY LYMPHATIC GLANDULAR TUMOURS. have a very important influence, and I think it hardly worth while to estimate the percentage of mortality from the figures at my command. Chronic Lymphadenitis and Lymphoma. (Z. B.) In no other organs is there so much difficulty in distinguishing minutely between chronic inflammation and tumour formations as in the lymphatic glands. In the earlier stages, swellings of the lymphatic glands all resemble each other. Histologically, the swelling is invariably found to be due to simple hyperplasia. At a later stage, in the great majority of cases, this hyperplasia leads to caseation and suppuration, which changes may either start from infection originating in the areas of inflammation, or else may be idiopathic. In either case there is more or less tendency to ulceration and perforation of the skin, and the formation of the so- called “ strumous ” glandular ulcers. Forms consequently occur where the hyperplasia, remaining as such, and without any retrograde metamorphoses, continually and slowly progresses, until the whole tissue of the gland becomes and remains uniform in structure (simple lymphoma or scrofulous glandular sarcoma). Now, if this process should be arrested in its progress, caseation will sometimes occur in the later stages of these tumours. Next come the quickly growing softening lymphomata, which, on dissection, seems to have the appearance of the medullary formation. Among these we may still find pure hyperplastic forms, which, although on minute investigation, may prove to be spindle- celled sarcoma, yet often to the naked eye occur under the guise of the so-called “ tumor-fasciculatus,"” i. e. a growth where the fibrous material can be torn into bundles like muscle. Finally, we come to tumours of the lymphatic glands originating secondarily— secondary sarcoma, chondroma, carcinoma, etc. The primary lymphatic glandular tumours come first under con- sideration . * In a lymphatic gland caseous metamorphosis following chronic inflammation can only be distinguished from simple hyperplasia, if the gland be softened, and fluctuation evident, or if pus has already made its way out externally. Multiple glandular swellings of slow and continuous growth, which coalesce without altering in