32 HEAD INJURIES WITHOUT CEREBRAL SYMPTOMS. Pour cases of bone injury of some importance, but without any brain symptoms, did well. Case.—W. H—, set. 23, a strong miner, was injured in blasting a rock. He came up to the hospital at once with a lacerated wound, two inches long, over the left frontal eminence, fifteen small fragments of bone were extracted, leaving a gap in the skull the size of a shilling. Dura mater uninjured; uninterrupted recovery in forty-three days. Case.—D. S—, a labourer, set. 50, was injured in the same way as the ■preceding case. Here, however, a fragment of stone, the size of a sixpence, was firmly embedded in the bone in the middle of the forehead. Several medical men had attempted to extract it without success, and the patient was sent up to the hospital twelve hours after the injury to be trephined. By gouging away a portion of the external table near the impacted body I was able to remove it with the elevator. A few small fragments were taken away with the forceps. The dura mater was uninjured. Recovery in twenty-five days. Case.—R. F—, a smith, mt. 30, was injured by a heavy blow on the forehead from a stone. Six weeks after the injury the wound was still suppurating; some small fragments of the stone were then extracted, but the wound did not completely close, and the patient came up to the hospital, eight weeks after the injury. A sinus in the middle of the scar, close to the hairy scalp, led down to exposed bone. I slit up the sinus, and removed a number of frag- ments of bone and of the stone. The gap left extended through the whole thickness of the frontal bone, and the dura piaterwas seen, but not pulsating. The wound healed in fifteen days after the slitting up of the 3inus. Case.—J. M—, mt. 22, an artisan, attempted to commit suicide. He placed the barrel of a pistol, loaded with two bullets, against the middle of his forehead and fired it off. Blood flowed from a wound, but he did not lose consciousness, and made a second unsuccessful attempt, this time placing the muzzle against his right temple. After this he desisted, and went to a doctor, who removed a piece of lead from the wound in the temporal region, and sent him up to the hospital. We found two lacerated wounds, their edges blackened with powder, in the situations mentioned. No injury of the skull could be made out, although the bone was exposed in the neigh- bourhood of the wounds. Superficial necrosis followed and he recovered in seventy-eight days. The absence of even transitory concussion in this case is to be explained by the fact that the injury was confined to a small por- tion of the skull. In military practice similar cases have been met with, though not often; the favourable progress of the first three cases is accounted for by the circumstance that the dura mater was uninjured.