426 ACUTE HIP-JOINT DISEASE IN ADULTS. subsequent to the injury. Many years afterwards, other small abscesses and sinuses formed about the seat of fracture, which were still suppurating when he was admitted. Most careful examination failed to detect any sequestrum. Some improvement followed cauterisation of the sinuses. Section C. Acute and Chronic Inflammations of Joints.— Acute lap-joint disease in adults—Cases and remarks. Re- marks on chronic hip joint disease. Case in which forcible extension was applied. Tumor albus of the hip. Cases of ankylosed hip ; treatment by osteotomy and fracturing neck of femur. Dislocation of hip after typhus—Case. Case of pathological luxation of hip. Chronic inflammation of knee. Cases of ankylosed knee; treated by forcible extension ; by osteotomy. Tumor albus of knee. Case of acute meningitis after excision. Hydrops genu. Cases of loose cartilage. Chronic disease of ankle and tarsus. Acute hip joint disease in adults. A girl, set. 20, had acute inflammation of the left hip-joint, which com- menced three weeks after a fall. Bed sores formed, and the patient died in eighty-seven days. She had previously suffered from haemoptysis ; her mother and two brothers were phthisical. Eosine L—, aet. 22. Origin of the disease unknown. Death in forty-nine days. Agatha B—, aet. 39. Origin of the disease unknown. Death in fifty-two days. Bed sores, septic fever. Gottlieb S—, aet. 21. A chill, while on military service was given as the origin of the disease. Death in ninety-three days from decubitus and pyaemia. This acute and rapidly fatal form of coxitis in adults, was new to me. The post-mortem appearances were in all cases the same, viz. the articular cartilage was always completely gone, sometimes hanging in shreds to the bones. The disease consisted essentially of subchondral ostitis with softening and necrosis of the cartilage, and was almost entirely unaccompanied by suppuration. Scarcely a drop of pus escaped from the joint in these cases; there was