160 SUBCUTANEOUS LACERATION OF BRONCHOCELE. no influence on the disappearance of the remaining portion of the tumour. It sometimes happens that after the operation haemorrhage occurs into the cyst, evidenced by rapid swelling. In one instance the cyst became so swollen that it was larger than before the puncture I put on a collodion bandage thicker than usual, and applied ice. Eecovery was somewhat delayed but no other harm happened. \Y ith regard to the after-treatment, when iodine has been injected, it should be observed that sharp fever usually follows the operation, lodism may occur, so that the patients have to lay up for a few days. The collodion bandage is most effective against the swelling, and I have seldom had occasion to apply ice. Gas often develops in these cysts after operation; no harm comes of it and it is best not to let it out; some months may elapse before the effusion, and the gaseous contents of the sac are absorbed. Matters will not be expedited by making any fresh punctures, as I experienced. In two cases where I punctured under these conditions, severe inflam- mation set in with dyspnoea and fever, and I had to lay open the cyst and unite the walls by sutures to the skin, and though both patients recovered, they had been exposed needlessly to a second operation and a new source of danger.1 In a case of parenchymatous bronchocele, associated with smaller cysts, occurring in a decrepid woman, fifty-nine years of age, I applied chloride of zinc paste. On both sides were large thyroid tumours, causing dyspnoea. The skin was incised on the right side where the larger tumour lay, and strips of lint soaked in chloride of zinc paste applied. On the following day the cauterised part was scraped away, and the paste reapplied. The dyspnoea gradually increased, until the patient become asphyxiated. Post mortem: the trachea was found nan-owed, and the bronchocele had in part extended into it. (See Fig. 11). Three cases of subcutaneous laceration of parenchymatous hron- choceles.—I have repeatedly observed, that in cases where at different times several punctures had been made into parenchymatous bron- choceles, in order to determine the consistence of the mass, dyspnoea was relieved and sometimes, as it appeared to me, the tumour diminished in size. Examinations of a considerable number of bronchoceles of this nature showed me further that not infrequently, a central cicatricial contraction took place. This gave me the idea 1 For further remarks on the treatment by iodine injections, vide infra pp. 170—175.