118 CASE OF ORBITAL SARCOMA: NEEDLE EXAMINATION. The dura mater was found cancerous and thickened; at the apex of the left anterior lobe of the brain was an abscess, the size of a hen’s egg, whose anterior wall was soldered to, and in part formed by, the dura mater. The abscess, therefore, might possibly have been caused by inflammation extending from the cancerous ulcer; at the same time, it must be admitted that it might have originated from the repeated needle punctures. Considering that this doubtful case is the only one which I can recall contra-indicating examination by the needle, it seems to me scarcely sufficient to cancel the great advantages of this method of examination. Cases do certainly occur in which recovery follows the removal of tumours, notwithstanding the opening of the cranial cavity, and in spite of the removal of the diseased degenerated dura mater. When such cases do occur, they may afford some consolation, but my experience does not encourage me to push operative surgery much further in this direction. In the following case the result of examination with the needle induced me to undertake an operation which, from all other condi- tions, seemed to be almost hopeless. Cylindro-sarcoma. Frau C. S—, set. 28, came under my treatment in December, 1870; she was a pallid brunette, of moderate stature, rather emaciated. In October, 1862, she first noticed a hard knot, the size of a pin’s head, situated in the skin of the eyelid, near the middle of the right upper orbital edge. It increased gradually with pain, and in the course of a year had become the size of a pigeon’s egg. The eyeball was displaced downwards and forwards, and the power of vision was somewhat impaired. When in this condition she was operated upon by Professor Balassa in Pesth. From the report of this surgeon, it appears that the tumour lay deep down in the orbit over the upper half of the bone, and was drawn forward and removed, together with the periosteum; the eyeball was preserved, although the power of vision and movement remaining in it was but little. A year later recurrence took place in and about the cicatrix ; the growth of the tumour was this time slower, so- that, up to the time when I saw her, it had taken six years to reach the size of a hen’s egg. Severe pain occasionally occurred, extending over the whole forehead ; the right eyeball was much displaced forwards and downwards ; lateral movements were somewhat, vertical movements much, impaired. She could only count fingers at a distance of three feet. Some separate promi- nent nodules of the hardish irregular tumour were very painful. Examina- tion with the needle showed that the tumour was everywhere firmly connected with the skull, and the bone offered resistance. It was found impossible during the operation to preserve the eyeball. A portion of bone had to be removed with the gouge from the upper border of the orbit, and a part of the