15 DISEASES OE THE MALE BREAST. 22 5 unfruitful, rich or poor, of full or slender habit, workers or idlers— neither the origin nor the course of the disease appears to be affected by any of these influences. What does influence the disease ? Let- us seek further, and we may discover. Diseases op the Male Breast. Chronic inflammatory induration of the male breast. A youth, set. 16, whose breasts were rather large on both sides, noticed three months before admission, without any known cause, some swelling and redness about the left nipple. The inflammatory symptoms lasted for about sis weeks and then disappeared, but the swelling remained. The left breast was the size of a goose egg, hard, nodulated, perfectly moveable, intimately united to the nipple, but not implicating the skin; very slight tenderness on pressure. As the infiltration seemed to be the result of a previous inflamma- tion, iodine ointment merely was applied. He came back again eight months later; there was then no distinct tumour to be seen, but the lobes of the left mammary gland were somewhat harder and more easily felt than on the right side; in both axillae were some swollen, but not indurated glands. The general health was very good. Carcinoma of the male breast. (The nature, microscopical or other- wise, is not stated.) G. K—, set. 62, had noticed for three months induration of the right nipple ; the mammary gland on that side contained several tumours, the size of hazel-nuts. No enlargement of the axillary glands. The right mamma was removed, and eighteen months later he was well, and free from recur- rence. S. S—, set. 68, stated that at least forty years previously, he noticed that the left nipple was much indrawn; the parts around swelled, and remained painful for some weeks; the pain and swelling then disappeared, but a bard nodule the size of a pea was left, close to the nipple. Three years before he was admitted, the nodule, which up till then had never occasioned him any annoyance, began to increase in size. In the left breast, the skin was glazed and tense over a convoluted mass of carcinoma the size of an orange ; axillary glands free. The breast was removed, and he recovered. In the case of A. B , a small nodule made its appearance close to the left nipple, two years before I saw him, when he was seventy-one years of age. Gradually the entire mammary gland degenerated into a hard growth, the