REMARKS ON INJURIES OP THE HEAD. 38 over to the right. In the course of the next week the whole body became stiff and hard as a board, so that he could be lifted up as if he were made of wood. He became greatly emaciated. The mind was clear up to his death, which occurred on the twenty-eighth day after the injury. The edges of the wound had become firmly united, and superficial exfoliation of the exposed bone had taken place. Throughout there was absence of fever. Post mortem: Notwithstanding the most diligent search, no fissure of the skull could be found; the dura mater immediately beneath the wound was adherent to the bone, and beneath this an abscess of the brain, one inch in diameter, was found; nothing else abnormal in the brain or other organs. I conclude that in this case the parietal bone had been driven in without fracture, and that a contusion of the brain led to the formation of abscess. Head Injuries with severe Brain Symptoms. These may be classified as follows, according to their progress and symptoms: i. Cases in which brain symptoms occurred simultaneously with the injury. Under this head may be noted a case of commotio cerebri which terminated fatally on the fifth day; symptoms of compression appeared on the third. We found diffuse suppurative meningitis without extravasation or fracture of the skull. Among the patients with symptoms of compression dating from the time of injury, but who survived, the injury was followed in one case by paralysis of the portio dura, in a second of the oculo- motor nerve; a third had complete paralysis of the right arm, while in a fourth persistent deafness of both ears resulted. In two of the fatal cases there was crossed hemiplegia. One patient who had sustained a slight depression of the occipital bone, was nearly com- pletely paralysed in both legs for two months. He then began to improve without any special treatment, and subsequently recovered the complete use of the lower limbs. In one instance, as the result of a small circular fracture of the left parietal bone without injury to the dura mater, weakness and numbness of the left forearm and hand followed. The paresis disappeared completely after eight days and the patient got well. In two cases of gun-shot wound a revolver bullet passed through