362 TENOSYNOVITIS. COMPOUND PALMAR GANGLION. tiling further about her. In another case compression failed com- pletely. At Vienna the cases of this disease met with were seen only among the out-patients and in my private practice. I either ruptured the ganglia by pressure, or employed subcutaneous discission. No doubt the condition often returns if the former method be employed, even when pressure is kept up for a long time by a plate of lead and strict rest of the part is enjoined, but the patients, as a rule, prefer the slighter proceeding to puncture or incision. I never saw recurrence of the disease after sub- cutaneous discission. Curiously enough, no case of compound palmar ganglion has ever come under my care in Vienna, and I can only remember to have seen two such cases since I have been here. Tenosynovitis. A gentleman came to me who had had for many years a fluctuating swelling the size of a goose-egg an inch and a half above the wrist-joint on the dorsal aspect of the forearm. He experienced some inconvenience from the swelling in writing. I first tried to cure it by forcible pressure, hut without success ; I then punctured the tumour with a trochar. Some perfectly clear, jelly-like matter was pressed out; I threw in some iodine diluted with an equal amount of water and allowed the mixture to remain a short time before withdrawing it again. The arm was put up on a splint, with wet bandages. Tolerably severe swelling of the arm, accompanied by fever took place during the next few days; under the application of ice, the swelling subsided in eight days, and in the course of the next three weeks it had entirely dis- appeared. The opening of puncture healed by first intention. Compound palmar ganglion. (Z. B.) E. A—, set. 26, a turner, stated that he had noticed five years previously a painful swelling in the palm of the hand, which gradually increased until the functions of the fingers became so interfered with, that complete exten- sion (except of the thumb) was no longer possible. The patient was in a great state of alarm lest the trouble should get still worse, and was very anxious to have something done. A fluctuating swelling could be felt in the hollow part of the hand, close above the annular ligament. The fluid could be pressed from one part to tlio other. I punctured the swelling with a medium-sized trochar in the hand, and with difficulty evacuated some colloid, sago-like pulp. Finding, however, that the contents of the swelling were too