EXTROVERSION OE THE BLADDER AND EPISPADIAS. 285 side, and a slight degree of the same condition on the left. The right ureter and the pelvis of the kidney were immensely dilated ; the former especially was dilated and convoluted to a degree that one would expect only to find when the passage of the urine had been materially obstructed by stone or stricture, for years. I was surprised on finding this, when I remembered how well my patient had gone on after the previous operations. The most minute exa- mination failed to detect any contraction in the course of the ureter, or at its orifice. There is no doubt that the source of the mischief lay in a sharp bend of the ureter just before it opened through the posterior wall of the bladder which bulged forwards owing to the malformation. The effects that may be induced by such twists and bends have been described by Wolfler.1 The degree of bending must vary much in different cases, other- wise every adult with extroversion of the bladder would be the sub- ject of pyelitis. Now that attention has been called to this compli- cation, it will probably be more frequently observed. At the time of writing (1878) I have under treatment, a child twelve years old, with extroversion of the bladder, who suffers from pyelitis of the right side. After every operation there is an exacerbation, espe- cially when the urine becomes alkaline. In another case, too, in which I had successfully covered over the defective bladder with flaps, the whole improvement was lost after an operation to close a fistula that was left. The urine became ammoniacal and it was evident that diphtheritic inflammation had attacked the posterior sur- face of the new formed covering to the bladder. The inflammation took on a destructive character; first the cicatrices gave way and then the flaps themselves were destroyed. At first I used to cover over the extroversion by paring and uniting the abdominal walls after previously detaching the bladder from them. Then, for a while, I tried making two lateral pedunculated flaps from the abdominal wall. Now I have come to the conclusion that the best method is to dissect up two broad, lateral, doubly-pedunculated flaps, whose narrow parts lie above and below. After ten or fourteen days, when the under surface is gra- nulating well, I unite the two in the middle line without cutting through the peduncles. If the flaps be sufficiently broad, there is no need to unite them by their outer edges ; these lateral openings close spontaneously in from five to six weeks. The bladder is thus 1 ‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1876, p. 295.