ACUTE AND SUBACUTE PERIOSTITIS. 41 G drainage tube was inserted. The pus had now an acid smell. Nine days after admission lie had repeated attacks’of severe dyspnoea and cough. Neither in the heart nor in the lungs could anything abnormal be detected: probably the symptoms were due to fat embolism of the lungs. During the tenth and eleventh days the swelling of the edges of the wound diminished and the patient was relieved; the tongue became more moist, and the appetite improved, although the evening temperature still kept high, and the pus had a foul smell. A slight bed-sore formed over the sacrum. By the sixteenth day the attacks of dyspnoea had left him, but swelling of the knee-joint was observed. On the nineteenth day the lower epiphysis of the femur was found loose. From this time the patient began to improve; the hed-sore healed and the fluid in the joint became absorbed. By the twenty-seventh day the fever had ceased. On the fifty-seventh day—the thirty-fifth after the detachment had been noticed—the epiphysis was found to have consolidated again. About five months after the commencement of the disease, a seques- trum was removed, and when the patient was discharged a short time after, the sinus had not completely closed. He had some movement in the knee- joint. It is much to be regretted that the subsequent accounts of this characteristic case are imperfect. In the following case also the lower epiphysis of the femur became separated. Elise W—, set. 12, had intensely acute suppurative osteomyelitis and periostitis of the femur, followed by abscess of the knee-joint and sepa- ration of the lower epiphysis of the femur. Subsequently osteomyelitis developed in the tibia on the same side ; the femoral vein was blocked up to the vena cava. She had phlegmasia on both sides; no metastatic abscesses. Death on the sixty-third day. The cause of origin of the disease could not be made out. Subacute ‘periostitis of the femur. jj p$ , get. 24. Five weeks after the pain bad first commenced an abscess was opened. The bone was not necrosed. A sinus persisted at the site of the abscess. When discharged two or three months later he could walk well, .and the suppuration was very slight. Acute ostitis. Moritz S—, cct. 22. Eight years previously (when fourteen years of age) lie was attacked with acuto ostitis of both femora, after a severe chill; both humeri were attacked also as well as the right tibia. Abscesses and sinuses formed over all four extremities. The sinuses in the upper extremities .closed spontaneously without any exfoliation of the bone, and those over