ENCYSTED PERITONEAL EFFUSION. 23G The tumour was so markedly consistent, and its shape so rounded and sharply defined, that at the first glance it was impos- sible to avoid the conclusion that it was a fibroma or chondroma. Taking into consideration the highly unreliable character of the patient's account, the unfavourable prospects of any operation, and the absence of any discomfort, expectant treatment seemed desirable. As it was thought possible that the swelling might be an extrava- sation of blood between the peritoneum and abdominal wall, or might be merely due to effusion, mercurial inunction was employed, and warm fomentations applied. Under this treatment the tumour rapidly diminished, and in a fortnight was so small that it could scarcely be felt. J. J—, a chaplain, set. 35, stated that he had suffered for about nine months from symptoms of indigestion; occasional vomiting, and attacks of heartburn were the principal symptoms. Eight months before admission he had a severe attack of colic, which, according to the report of his medical attendant, was complicated with peritonitis. He was confined to bed for six weeks, and recovered slowly, hut completely. Some months before his admission he remarked a sensation of fulness in the abdomen, and for a few weeks he had noticed an abnormal swelling in the lower part of the belly. I found an encysted, fluctuating tumour, fully the size of a man’s head, in the umbilical region. Two litres of thin, dark brown fluid were evacuated by means of the aspirator. Microscopical examination of this fluid showed large numbers of granular cells, coloured blood-corpuscles, crystals of eholesterine, and granular debris. The patient was discharged four days later, much relieved. Deeper down, however, a swelling was perceptible, which had somewhat increased in circumference since the puncture. This swelling extended forwards so rapidly that the patient returned to the hospital within three weeks, with the tumour as large as it was before the operation. Puncture was repeated, and 1600 cc. of the same fluid as before withdrawn. I heard a year later that the rest of the swelling had completely disappeared spontaneously, and that the patient was in perfect health. B. H—, set. 30, had noticed an increase in the size of her abdomen for about a year. She had no pain, and was able, though with some difficulty, to do her work. As she began to lose flesh, and some swelling of the feet occurred, she came under treatment. The case had been diagnosed as one of ovarian tumour. The abdomen was much enlarged, the circumference at the level of the umbilicus being 125 ctm., and from the xiphoid appendix to the symphysis pubis, 93 ctm. Examination by percussion made the diagnosis of encysted peritoneal effusion highly probable ; no reason could be assigned, however, for its origin. The abdomen was punctured at several points, and altogther 2300 cc. of highly albuminous, yellow, viscid fluid were evacuated. The patient was then transferred to another part of the hospital, and I was unable to obtain any further record of her case.