211 ADENO-FIBEOMA. CYSTO-SARCOMA. There can be no doubt, that from a purely anatomical point of view, the difference between these tumours and cysto-sarcomata is very slight, and we should be perfectly justified in considering these tumours as representing the initial stage of cysto-sarcoma. Practical observation, however, allows us to form these new growths into a well-defined group from a clinical point of view. They are characterised by their very slow growth ; their frequent occurrence in young women and gilds; their painlessness, and not infrequent multiplicity, as well as by the fact that they do not appear to recur after operation. It is a curious fact that I never once saw a case of this nature in Zurich. While in Berlin—during a period of seven years—I only observed five or six cases; all the observations that I have collected are drawn from Yienna, and the number would have been very much larger, if I had kept the record of cases that came under my notice in private. I commonly advised removal, if treatment with iodine for some months did no good; but I did not always advise operation very earnestly. We cannot positively affirm, in answer to the usual question, that the tumour, if left untouched, will be directly dangerous to life. In two cases I have observed large cysto-sarcoma develop on some nodules of this description, which had remained for a long time indolent, and scarcely altered in size. It is far more common for carcinoma to make its appearance in connection with these tumours, when the women arrive at the age at which carcinoma occurs. In such cases I always advise removal, as also when stabbing pains occurred, or any rapid increase of growth was noticed. Altogether nineteen cases of adeno-fibroma came under observa- tion. Nine of the women were married; most of them had children, and had nursed one or more themselves; but, unfortunately, the records on this point are incomplete. The age at which the tumours developed was as follows :—Prom 12 to 20, six cases; from 21 to 30, nine cases; from 38 to 40, four cases. Cysto-sarcoma S—, set.43, unmarried, noticed first when she was nine years old a small, painless lump in the left breast; this increased slowly and in twenty-seven years had attained the size of a fist. It was then removed successfully by Schuh. A year later a fresh tumour appeared in the neigh-