UNION OP DUODENUM TO GREATER CURVATURE. 501 greater curvature of the stomach, in order to guard against the formation of a diverticulum, and to provide for the more ready passage of the gastric contents. Unfortunately, the patient, who was in a very reduced state, died twelve hours after the operation. This was the most complete of all Professor Billroth's three resec- tions. Pigs. 6 and 7, Plate III, show the direction of the inci- sions, and the resulting form of the resected stomach. The only modifications necessary if the duodenum be united to the greater curvature of the stomach are, that the separation should be commenced at the lesser curvature; the occlusion sutures (n, Plate III, fig. 4) should be inserted at once as before, and the rest of the operation conducted as shown in Plate III, fig. 4. If there is any fear lest a diverticulum should be formed at the lesser curvature, it would be as well to carry the incision obliquely through the walls of the stomach, as shown in fig. 6, provided the extent of the cancer permitted it. Under some circumstances, we might find ourselves compelled to insert the duodenum midway between the greater and lesser curvature, as shown in figs. 8 and 9, which illustrate the necessary incisions, and the resulting shape of the stomach. Under all conditions it is desirable to divide the stomach obliquely, in order to prevent the formation of diverticula. In future cases Professor Billroth intends, whenever possible, to attach the duo- denum to the greater curvature. In none of our cases did a single drop of the contents of the stomach or duodenum escape into the peritoneal cavity, although we used no special contrivance to occlude temporarily either end of the canal. The elastic compressorium employed by Bydygier seems to me not only superfluous, but injurious.1 With regard to the method of sewing up the stomach, I think the main point is to avoid any folds; this will be accomplished by carrying the incision obliquely through the viscus, so that more is cut away from the part where the occlusion sutures are to be inserted than from the other side. Secondly, the lumen of the stomach should be so far closed by means of Lembert's sutures that the opening left is no larger than that of the duodenum. I he after-treatment is simple enough when matters progress favourably. In Case 1 the dressings were first changed and the sutures in the abdominal wall removed on the sixth day. Although the second and third cases ended fatally, no general 1 On this point see Gusscnbaucr, ‘ Arch. f. Ivl. Chirurg.,’ Bd. xix, p. 350.