470 c METHOD OE AMPUTATION.’ amputation of the breast, are not so generally and equally distributed that they would fulfil the required conditions; at present, there- fore, we practically adopt the amputations and resections performed in the different hospitals which have surgical departments as the principal test and indication of the results of operations for given periods of time. It soon became clear that the cases must be grouped according to stated principles, if any practical information were to be gained from the statistics. Some thirty years ago the “ method of ampu- tation ’ was thought so much of that the results were usually estimated accordingly. The first question was, whether circular, oval, single or double flap amputation had been performed. These considerations are almost disregarded now ; the principles on which an amputation stump ought to be covered in are generally accepted; we know that to form large muscular flaps is not only unfavourable for healing, but that these masses of muscle in the stump at a later stage disappear here and there, according to recognised anatomical and physiological conditions. I do not think I am wrong in assuming that the principles of forming the stump in an amputa- tion, as represented by two or three circular cuts (with the exception of special methods of exarticulation), are now decided as far as the majority of surgeons are concerned, and that no great importance is attached any longer as to whether that result is obtained by a circular, simple, or a double-flap incision through the skin. Contemporaneously with this discussion on the “ method of amputation” the question as to whether the stump healed by first or second intention was held to be of great importance. When I was a student, a large number of surgeons still encouraged suppu- ration as much as possible by stuffing the flaps with charpie, and applying poultices early to the stump. Contention ran high, too, on the subject of the after treatment, whether the patients should be freely purged and bled (as a student I have seen many amputation stumps covered with leeches), or whether a liberal diet such as beef- steaks and port wine should be depended on for recovery. These views obtained during a period when no statistical results of value could be hoped for, for no surgeon considered it his duty to publish openly the truth as to the results of his operations; practically he was unacquainted with them and could only furnish some very general observations on the subject according to the impressions made on his memory.