STRICTURE OE TRACHEA FROM BLENNORRHCEA. 137 I can only suppose, therefore, that below the visible contraction is another- stenosis, and this deeper funnel-shaped stenosis may at a guess correspond to about the sixth or seventh ring of the trachea.” Prof. Stork considered the disease to be due to a kind of blennor- rhcea, with induration, contraction, and thickening of the mucous- membrane of the kind first minutely described by himself. Prom his experience he was of opinion that no material or lasting benefit would be derived from any operative proceeding. I determined, however, to undertake something in order to preserve the patient from death by suffocation. With the assistance and sanction of Professor Stork, I proceeded as follows:—The patient was narcotised, and then the entire anterior surface- of the trachea was exposed from the cricoid cartilage down to the sternal notch. This was then cut open longitudinally, and the edges were widely separated; the rings of the trachea were much calcified. I now introduced my little finger, and found a stricture at the exact spot described by Professor Stork. Through this, with some difficulty, I was able to introduce an elastic No. 12 cathetez’. I then discovered that it was not a ring-shaped stricture or a membranous diaphragm which caused the obstruction, but a uniform constriction which extended down for at least 2 centimetres, probably as far as the bifurcation. The opening of the constricted tube was too small to admit any of the ti’acheal canulaz we had at hand. Even if I had introduced such a one, the patient could not have stood it for any length of time, for any little plug of mucus wozzld have sufficed to choke it up. Forcible stretching appeared to me a more dangerous proceeding than incision—the more so, that I could not he certain whether the contraction was only formed by thickening of the mucous membrane and the submucous • tissue, or whether the cartilaginous paid of the trachea did not participate in the stricture. I preferred, therefore, to introduce a probe-pointed knife with its cutting edge forwards, and carried it down for about an inch, so as to incise the tissues for about 2 millimetres. The haemorrhage was trifling. I was able now to increase the dilatation by introducing my little finger,, which I canned down as far as the bifizrcation; I was thus able to con- vince myself that the constriction was only due to a considerable hypertrophy of the submucous tissue, for on the division of this and the mucous mem- brane, the edges gaped widely, and allowed dilatation. The tracheal rings, although very hard, were not constricted. Ihe patient was able to breathe much more freely after she recovered from the anesthetic, but in the course of tho next few days it was evident that theie was some hindrance to respiration through the tube. This was evidently due to tho fact that the tube did not reach down low enough to keep apart the lower portions o£ the trachea, which soon contracted again. I introduced, therefore, a somewhat longer tube, but the breathing was not entiiely fiee until I had passed down to the light bronchus a conical-shaped tube, which at the upper part was equal in diameter to the normal trachea.