286 EXTROVERSION OF THE BLADDER AND EPISPADIAS. completely covered in, but an opening should be left at the umbili- cus through which the urine may escape until the urethra below is completely formed ; then the umbilical opening is closed, and it heals up as the urine escapes below by the newly-formed passage. I intend to describe this method more minutely and with the aid of illustrations hereafter, when the number of my cases is somewhat larger. The flaps must be made very broad, that is to say in an a dult they should be at least six centimetres broad in the middle and about five at the upper and lower parts. In a child of course they should be somewhat, but still not so very much, smaller. The flaps should be so completely detached as to overlap each other for about half their width; a sheet of tinfoil is then laid underneath them in their whole length. In a few days they approximate so much that their curved shape becomes straight; later on, notwith- standing a certain amount of rigidity, they will readily unite in the middle line. A broad surface must be made by scraping away the granulations and the superficial developing epidermis from the edges. At first I suspected that this median cicatrix might possibly give way as the bladder was pressed forward, so that a sort of vesi- cal hernia might form, as happens occasionally under similar condi- tions after laparotomy; I have, however, a case under observation which was cured five years ago, and which satisfactorily proves that such a fear is groundless. The wounds of the abdominal wall, after the formation of flaps on both sides, are of rather formidable size; the haemorrhage can easily be controlled. If the flaps be made too small, a strip of the tissues, either about the centre or above it, is apt to slough. Such an occurrence will seriously depreciate the result. A further dis- advantage of making the flaps too small is that lateral openings will be left which are very difficult to close. We are constantly trying to improve the apparatus to provide for the retention of the urine. A form of apparatus adapted to one of my cases (a child six years old) will be best understood from the illustration (Plate IY, figs. 7 a and 7 l). I do not think that these operations should be undertaken before the age of about four, for, in my method of operating, the first pro- ceeding is of a very formidable nature. The only object in operating earlier lay in the hope that the symphysis might spontaneously close after the operation, just as the fissure in the alveolar process closes up after operation for liare-lip. It was thought too that pos-