35 CASES OE FRACTURED BASE. left half of the frontal bone. On the border of this last fissure a fragment of bone about the size of a hazel nut was driven in to a depth of a line and a half. This depressed portion formed an irregular boundary to a gap the size of a sixpence, limited on the other side by the teeth of the sagittal edge of the right parietal. The dura mater corresponding to the extent of injury to the bone, and the whole convex surface of the large hemisphere was of a dark green colour, infiltrated with purulent fluid, and perforated in two places, each the diameter of a pea; these rents extended through the pia mater and were close to the longitudinal sinus, which contained fluid blood. A reddish, pulpy area, the size of a walnut, was found in the cortex of the brain, the capillary blood-vessels in the neighbourhood of this area being much injected. The rest of the brain was ansemic, and moderately firm. A few drachms of clear serum in the ventricles. Fractured base. Insensibility from the time of injury up till death. F. S—, set. 44, fell from a scaffold, a distance of about six feet. When admitted he was in a heavy, drowsy condition, but moved the arms and legs about in a restless manner, and had strong convulsive movements of the whole body. Death took place forty-eight hours after the injury. Post mortem : Extensive fracture of the right and left orbital plates, extending through the sella turcica as far as the clivus. A triangular portion of the frontal bone corresponding to the glabella lay loose in the cavity of the skull. The dura mater was somewhat stretched, the pia mater infiltrated with puriform fluid, particularly at the base of the anterior and middle lobes. Pulpy breaking down of the brain cortex over the extent of a sixpence at the anterior extremity of the right anterior lobe of the cerebrum. Severe brain symptoms after an injury to the head ancl scalp wound. Pyaemia thirty-three days after the injury. Thrombosis of the sinuses. J. M—, ret. 33, fell down some steps on to the back of his head, and sus- tained a slight wound in the occipital region, which was not thought of much importance; no cerebral symptoms. A few days later, suppuration began beneath the scalp, and several incisions were made; the local symptoms improved, but some giddiness remained; the face was flushed and the pulse small; leeches were on several occasions applied to the back of the neck, and ice-bags were kept continually on the head; he had no paralysis, but became more and more emaciated. The original wound and the incisions healed up. Thirty-three days after the injury he had a rigor, which was repeated during the next few days. Death occurred forty-one days after the injury. Post mortem •. a fissure three inches long was found, extending for- wards from the foramen magnum. Pus in the subcutaneous veins of the