ADENO-CYSTO-SARCOMA. 213 some excessive physiological process, and there might possibly be some hope of its disappearing when lactation occurred. Prof. v. Braun accordingly induced premature labour and delivered a seven months’ child, which died soon after birth. The lying-in progressed normally, but no proper secretion of milk made its appearance. The patient had constant febrile symptoms; cough set in, with much viscid sputa; the appetite failed, and she died in a month of marasmus. Unfortunately, no post mortem was allowed, but I was able to remove some portions of both breasts for examination. The tissue was of a faint rose colour, soft and tough. Some milky-looking fluid could be pressed out from it. Microscopi- cally the growths proved to be granulation sarcoma (glio-sarcoma, small round-celled sarcoma of Virchow). Adeno-cysto-sarcoma. In contrast to adeno-fibroma of the breast, where the tumours show such a striking similarity that, except for the size, and lobulation, one can scarcely be distinguished from another, the varieties of cysto-sarcoma are remarkably numerous. At one time the intercellular tissue resembles that of an cedematous fibroma, at another of a myxoma, at another of a giant and spindle-celled sarcoma, while occasionally the growths are of a small, round-celled —almost lymphoma-like—nature. Sometimes the cysts are large, sometimes small, and of the most diverse shapes ; but nearly always contain muooid fluid. Sometimes the cysts occur singly, while sometimes they occupy the greater part of the new formation; the cysts may be crammed full of growth or with perfectly smooth walls. Cases also have occurred to me though but rarely, where the growth contained newly-formed racemose and tubular gland structure. These growths do not, as a rule, recur; at times, however, they do return after removal, sometimes as mere cysts, sometimes more in the form of sarcoma, and not only locally, for in two instances the axillary glands were affected. I he age at which the tumours developed was as follows:—At 19, one case; between 24 and 30, two cases; between 34 and 40, eight cases; between 41 and 30, five cases; at the age of 52, one case. Total nineteen cases. In twelve of the patients on whom I operated, I learned that