MECHANICAL TREATMENT OE TALIPES. 463 of the want of room—too early at least for the children of poor people who are not always in a position to get the shoes repaired, for if the best possible result is to be obtained well-made shoes must be worn for years. It is in this respect that in ordinary practice the cure is most .commonly thwarted; in most cases we have to be content if we can enable the children to walk on the flat of their feet. If the shoes are left off too early or the treatment is not completed, and the children learn to walk either in large shoes or without any, the entire treatment is thrown away. Orthopaedic surgery among the poor is only possible in institutions which are richly endowed or in wealthy children'’s hospitals, where the patients can be kept under treatment for a number of years. As far as I could learn about the subsequent conditions of the patients the results were not very satisfactory. Thus, in thirteen children with double talipes, I received the following reports in eight instances :— Of four, “ can walk fairly though the foot is turned inwards; ” of three, “can walk alone,” “can walk freely,” of another, “cannot put his foot to the ground properly; ” of seven children with talipes only on one side, the report was, in two cases, “ walks fairly well; ” in three, “has trouble and difficulty in walking;” in two, “the foot is again completely deformed.” It would be distinctly unfair to judge of what can be done in the treatment of talipes from these results, for the reports merely show the result of hospital practice among the poor, while they prove that longer mechanical treatment is necessary in children’s hospitals to ensure more certain cure. My figures showed—(i) that double talipes is about twice as common as single; (2) that unilateral talipes is not more common on one side than the other; (3) that male children are far more frequently afflicted than female. I do not think that there is any particular advantage in commencing treatment before the children are a year old; the feet ought to be properly fixed in suitable apparatus before the first attempts to walk are made. I often used to bandage the feet to hollow tin splints with wooden foot-pieces. With these the patients are able to stand and walk. A larger number of cases, seen at Vienna, confirmed the general inferences drawn from my Zurich list. I have often practised sub- cutaneous division of the plantar fascia as well as that of the Achilles tendon. 1 have never yet found it necessary to divide any other