PARENCHYMATOUS INJECTIONS IN LYMPHOMA. 153 tumour of the neck in a child; in three instances the arsenical treatment led to no good results. These were all cases where soft rapidly growing tumours occurred separately in different parts of the body, and did not coalesce with one another (malignant lymphoma). Such cases are usually associated with pallor, but not commonly with leucocy themia; there is simple hyperplasia of the gland. Death commonly follows from hydrsemia, marasmus, and dropsy., In all the cases (seven) the disease commenced below thirty years of age. Simple ordinary lymphoma (W. B., 1870).—In three patients I tried parenchymatous injections of the tumours. Solutions of chlo- ride of gold, carbolic acid, quinine, iodine, etc., were the drugs em- ployed. In all the cases the effects so far resembled each other that no direct shrinking of the growth nor absorption was caused by the employment of these drugs, but repeated injections were in- variably followed by small abscesses. The tumour then shrank up to some extent, whether the pus was let out or escaped spontaneously. No material diminution, however, was brought about. After we had employed injections made in different ways and of various strengths, we finally abandoned the method of treatment. Other surgeons have met with rather better success. But I may remark that among the many cases in which I have extirpated lymphoma in Vienna, I have very seldom met with simple hyperplastic, unaltered forms of the growth. The glands are nearly always completely caseous, and frequently softened; even the smallest glands are found in this condition. Now, even in simple hyperplasia of the glands, there is but little hope of resorption; and such a result can scarcely be ex- pected when the glands are completely caseous. The mesenteric and bronchial glands have a far greater tendency to shrink up, calcify, and degenerate than the cervical, axillary, or inguinal glands. The latter groups are much more prone, generally speaking, to softening. The early occurrence of caseation in lymphomata, explains to my mind why compression is so ineffective.1 Medullary Lymphoma and Lympiio-sarcoma. Histologically we are justified in distinguishing between these 1 Remarks on these tumours will be found in ‘ Arch. f. Kl. Cliir.,’ Bd. xviii, p. 98, ‘ Wien. Med. Jahrbuch,’ 1877, Heft iii, p. 153, and ‘ Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1877, No. 1.