298 OVARIAN CYST. UTERINE FIBROMA. Ovarian cyst. K—, set. 21, strong and healthy-looking, stated that three and a half years previously the lower part of her abdomen began to increase in size rapidly. The catamenia commenced when she was seventeen. Two years previously, her medical attendant had punctured the swelling, and let out twenty pints of fluid. Within twelve months the distension had returned to its former size, and the same amount of fluid was again evacuated Five months before admission, the swelling had been punctured a third time, and the usual amount of fluid withdrawn. When the patient was admitted, the abdomen was distended as in the last month of pregnancy. Fluctuation was everywhere distinct. I made a puncture in the left side, but drew off only two pints of brownish-red viscid fluid. Another puncture in the middle line allowed one pint only of fluid of the same nature to escape. It seemed scarcely conceivable that the tumour, which had formerly been a simple cyst, had no)v become multilocular. A few days later, thinking that the cyst-contents might be particularly thick, I punctured with a large trocar in the right side. Death followed in three days from peritonitis. Post mortem: the cyst was found to be united to the abdominal wall so firmly that it could not be separated without tearing the peritoneum ; adhesions had taken place also to the intestines and omentum. The opening of the puncture gaped, and a large quantity of the cyst-contents were found in the abdominal cavity. The walls of the cyst were rigid, a quarter of an inch thick, and rough on the inner side. Deep down in the large sac was a firm tumour, containing numerous smaller cysts. Large fibroma of the uterus, containing a central cyst. B. K—, set. 39, stated that when about eighteen she suffered from chlo- rosis. When twenty-eight years old she had a child. Seven yeais before admission she experienced a good deal of pain in the abdomen, and a prolapse of the vagina and uterus formed, which, however, gradually disappeared without any special treatment. Three yeais later, she noticed swelling of the abdomen, and deep down in it, a spherical, hard tumour. This constantly increased up to the time of her admission. During all this time the menses had been very abundant, lasting from ten to fourteen days, so that at times there was no interval between the periods. This had much reduced her strength. The patient was of a weakly frame. The abdomen was distended as in the eighth month of pregnancy. The tumour fluctuated distinctly, but the history, and the fact that the cavity of the uterus measured seven inches, showed that the case was one of uterine tumour. I punctured the swelling and let out two quarts of clear serum. The tumour collapsed to some extent after this proceeding. No reaction followed. As extirpations in such cases aro usually unfavourable, I did not advise operation. The following case may be given rather more fully.