ENCYSTED PERITONEAL EFFUSION. 232 operation was undertaken; at the same time we did not conceal from him the risk of such a proceeding. So convinced were we of the correctness of our diagnosis, that we considered an explora- tory puncture to be only waste of time. To attempt a radical cure with injection of iodine, seemed to us inadvisable on account of the immense size of the tumour. The absorption of iodine from so large a surface might have led to fatal poisoning, and the injec- tion of a weak solution would have been of no avail. Simon's method of double puncture with subsequent incision appeared to us the best method of opening the cyst; at the same time we were gravely anxious about the large suppurating surface that would thus be caused in the interior of the abdomen, fearing that febrile marasmus might bring about the same result which sometimes follows this method of treating ovarian cysts. The patient caught eagerly at the suggestion of an operation which might probably save his life. We operated on him a few days later, when his condition was as follows : The abdomen was enormously distended, especially at the upper paid, and bulged forward in a spherical form over the pit of the stomach and left lobe of the liver. Fluctuation was distinct over the whole abdomen, the wave being communicated upwards and downwards as well as from side to side. Dulness on percussion commenced anteriorly, laterally and posteriorly at the level of the nipple, and extended over the whole abdomen. A small part only below the heart, which was in its normal situation, was resonant (owing to the distended stomach), and below on the left side (owing to the distended intestines) : the position of the diaphragm was scarcely altered. The respiratory movements did not perceptibly affect the position of the tumour; the extent of the dulness was the same, whether he lay down or stood up. I made a puncture in a vertical line with the nipple, just below the edge of the ribs, employing a highly curved trochar, which was plunged in at the spot mentioned, and brought out again at about two inches distance. On the summit of the curve in the canula there was an opening. After the stilet was removed, one of the terminal openings of the trocar was closed with a plug : to the other end a long caoutchouc tube was attached, through which the fluid was allowed to flow off. Thirty-eight pints were drawn off in this manner. I abstained from applying any pressure to the abdomen, and closed the opening in the canula as soon as the flow began to slacken. The next day I evacuated about eight pints, and the day after that again four pints of fluid of the same nature as at the first tapping. The fluid was found to be of a greenish-yellow colour, not trans- lucent, and highly viscid. The sediment was very small in amount, of a yellowish colour, and contained a few conglomerate, highly-