TREATMENT OF NEURALGIA CONSTANT CURRENT. 67 Spontaneous cure. In the case of a man who had suffered for eight years from neuralgia of the second division of the fifth nerve, the pain gradually ceased without any treat- ment. When I saw him last he had been for four months completely free from attacks. Another man, who had suffered for eleven years from neuralgia of the second division of the fifth nerve, broke through some ice and fell into the water; thence- forward, for a period of eight months, his attacks ceased. At the end of that time the neuralgia returned. He was then attacked with typhus, after which the pains ceased again, but returned once more, though with somewhat weak- ened intensity, six months later. He improved remarkably then under morphia injections. Constant Current. In eleven cases the constant current was employed, chiefly on the neck—the so-called galvanisation of the sympathetic nerve. The application of the direct current through the affected side of the head was seldom employed, and this treatment is scarcely ever of any use.1 If the sufferers had sufficient patience the constant current was employed for at least three weeks before I gave up the hope of its being of any use, for I have seen one case in which no effect was observed during the first two weeks, but in which subsequent benefit was derived. Usually a few sittings are sufficient to show whether the attacks become milder, shorter, or less frequent. In two cases no benefit whatever was derived; in two other instances the patients obtained complete relief for a year. One of these was in the habit of coming back for treatment from time to time, directly the first warning symptoms of the disease occurred. In the other case the neuralgia returned, but in a slighter degree. In one patient the good effects lasted for four months; in another for only lour weeks, and then the attacks returned with all their former severity. In five instances the improvement, after from three to four weeks of treatment, was so decided, and the attacks were so much diminished in severity and frequency, that the patients declined any operation. Unfortunately, I have not been able to obtain any subsequent information about these patients. 1 I leave it to the elcctrotherapeutists to continue the discussion as to what it is that is excited or allayed by the application of the constant current.