PSEUDARTHROSIS. 395 Faulty Union of the Leg after Intra-Uterine Fracture. The child, whose leg is shown in the illustration (Fig. 19) was born with the deformity, but died before any treatment-was adopted. I met with another similar case, in an infant four months old, in whom I was able easily to fracture the bone and straighten the limb. Pseudarthrosis of the femur. A man, set. 66, strong for Ms age, came under treatment with a pseud- arthrosis about six inches above the knee-joint. Four months previously he had sustained a very oblique fracture at this spot, wMch had been treated by plaster bandages. The fragments were only moderately displaced, but could not be induced to consolidate. When he came under my care I first put up Ms leg in a hollow splint without any bandage, and painted tinct. of iodine over the seat of the fracture. Then I applied forcible extension by Schneider- Mennel’s apparatus till the displacement of the fragments was corrected; the ends were then forcibly rubbed together, and the limb immediately put up in a plaster-of-Paris bandage. Distinct callus was thrown out after tMs, and within two months he had recovered sufficiently to be able to walk on the affected limb. A man, 031. go, was admitted with an ummited fracture of the left femur of fourteen weeks’ standing. The fragments were forcibly rubbed together, and a plaster bandage applied. At the end of two months the bandage was removed, but no union had taken place; accordingly five ivory pegs were driven into the fragments and a film bandage at once applied. The reaction that followed was but slight; suppuration took place around some of the pegs, wMch were then removed and some new pins were driven in. Here- upon great reaction followed; some of the pegs kept firm, but around others phlegmonous inflammation started, which gradually extended down the whole leg and led to the formation of many abscesses. Consolidation, however, of the fracture slowly took place, and abundant callus was thrown out. In eight months the patient was discharged cured. Ferdinand 0—, ait. go, sustained a fracture of both bones of the leg about the centre. A plaster bandage was applied. Some two months later, on removing the bandage, it was found that there was no union. The fragments were rubbed together and plaster again applied. On the removal of this latter bandage, however, it was discovered that a regular pseudarthrosis had formed. The fragments were again nibbed together, tinct. of iodine was painted on the leg, and phosphorus pills given, but without any improve- ment. I then applied electro-puncture, both poles being sunk down on to the pseudarthrosis; at first no reaction followed, but subsequently swelling began, which increased moro and more; extensive suppuration set in with rigors and the thigh was amputated, but tlio patient was already in a pyiemic state, and he died soon after.