194 CARIES OF RIBS AND STERNUM. Caries of the Ribs. Spontaneous fracture of the ribs, as a sequel of carious destruction, was noticed in several instances (Case of J. B—, supra). In the ribs caseous ostitis and caries necrotica is not infrequent; small sequestra are often spontaneously extruded. In one case I resected portions of the diseased ribs comprising the whole thickness of the bone; three years later the sinuses were still discharging. I can see no advantage in the early opening of abscesses depen- dent on carious ribs; I commonly allow them to break spontaneously. In tolerably healthy people incision does not accelerate the closure of the sinus, while in the tuberculous it is injurious. Caries and Necrosis of the Sternum. Although in only two of these cases could syphilis be positively established, yet here in Yienna I have seen an immense number of cases of chronic disease of the sternum, evidently of a syphilitic origin; some as out-patients, some in private practice. The disease appears commonly to occur when all syphilitic symptoms have ceased for many—perhaps ten or twenty years. It does not appear to me that disease of the sternum is often associated with tuberculosis, a connection which undoubtedly exists in caries of the ribs. Chronic Abscesses without any perceptible Caries of the I Ribs or Sternum. These abscesses either remained unopened as long as the patients , were under observation, or after they were incised no disease of the bone could be discovered, notwithstanding repeated examination. Twelve such cases came under observation, the ages ranging from fourteen to sixty-five. In two instances an attack of pleurisy had preceded the commencement of the affection, but at the time of admission no effusion could be detected in the pleural cavity. The unfavourable prognosis that must be given in caries and caries necrotica of the ribs, is evidenced by eight cases which were under observation at Yienna; of these, recovery took place in one only and that at the end of five years. Even this man was of a wretched, weakly constitution, and obviously could not have long to live.