460 TREATMENT OF GENU VALGUM. another plaster bandage, and connected to the leg by means of elastic bands. After two months, during which period the apparatus uas renewed but once, the deformity of the foot was found to be collected. On account of the laxity of the ligaments, the whole limb was then encased in a plaster bandage, in which the child was able to walk about fairly well. This method of treatment is of value in certain cases and has the advantage that the patient is not altogether confined to bed. In the out-patient department we frequently employed methods such as this, or plaster bandages frequently renewed, bringing the foot into as good position as possible when applying the bandage. Considerable benefit was derived, but the patients generally left before they were completely cured. Genu Yalgum and Varum.1 In twenty-six cases of genu valgum, I employed “ redressement force.” With a little practice, it is usually possible to straighten the limbs easily without any apparatus. Before experience had taught me the right amount of force to exert, in order to rupture the ligaments with certainty yet without undue violence, I resorted to subcutaneous division of the external lateral ligament in one case and the biceps tendon in others. Although the imme- diate results of “ redressement ” are satisfactory, yet convalescence is so slow and the liability to complications so great that I doubt whether I shall ever adopt the plan again extensively. I may refer to Mikulicz’s work on the subject. Unless the ligaments are completely torn through with a wrench, very little good will be done. If the thigh is padded and put up in a plaster case after the operation, bed-sores are apt to form, and sometimes the pain is very severe. If, on the other hand, the ligaments are completely torn through, and the leg brought into a position of genu varum, which it is easily possible to do, the peroneal nerve may be so stretched that it will lose its functions, and the paralysis thus caused does not always disappear, but may possibly cripple the patients permanently. A very long time elapses before the torn ligaments unite again; the knees for 1 With regard to my treatment of these deformities, I may refer to essays by Drs. Gussenbauer and Mikulicz published in the ‘ Archiv fur Klin. Chir.,’ Bd. xviii, pp. i and 375, and Ed. xxiii, pp. 561 and 671.