PYiEMIA. 19 easily destroyed. We know it can readily originate, and if, like the contagious material of erysipelas, it were hard to destroy, I should have found it impossible to prevent the spread of hospital gangrene in my wards. Seven cases came under my care in Yienna during 1868; one of the patient was admitted with a wound in the forearm, which had been attacked with the disease in a typical form. Probably from this case two others became affected; in one instance the diphtheria originated, to all appearance, spontaneously, but fortunately did not spread. In another the diphtheritic inflammation of the wound was associated with septicaemia, and in two others with pyaemia, while in one patient in whom the lower jaw had been partly resected, the wound was attacked with diphtheritic inflammation, the affection subsequently spreading over the throat. The toxic material which sets up diphtheritic inflammation of wounds is, as I have said, very peculiar in its nature; it is allied to the toxic material causing diphtheritic inflammation of the mncous membrane, and to septic phlegmonous inflammation, but whether it be identical cannot yet be answered. To my thinking, the number of these cases in our hospitals is far too large, for if perfect cleanliness and purity be insisted upon in the atmosphere, in the bandages, and the hands of the dressers and operators, the disease may be entirely eradicated and does not readily reappear when once banished. One cannot say the same of erysipelas, phlegmonous inflammation, lym- phangitis and their consequences. The conditions favourable to the production of these last-named diseases are far more numerous and common than is the case with diphtheritic inflammation of a wound, but yet if all surgeons would but recognise the comparative facility with which hospital gangrene may be eradicated, we should very soon only hear of this disease as a tradition handed down from the former dark ages of superstition. PYiEMIA. YYith regard to pyaemia, I adopt the nomenclature proposed by Jlueter, and designate as pyaemic, those cases where there is general severe purulent infection, although no rigid line can be traced between pyaemia on the one hand, and heetic and secondary fever on the other. It does not seem proper to consider all cases