ANKYLOSIS OF ELBOW. 371 abscesses formed in the subcutaneous cellular tissue in various parts of the body, which much reduced her strength, and she was brought still lower by inflammation of the right knee-joint and periostitis of the left external mal- leolus. The latter did not proceed beyond the stage of infiltration, but an immense abscess formed about the right knee-joint, which was allowed to open spontaneously and then drained; six months afterwards the abscess was still open, and the joint itself was swollen, and tender on pressure. The excised elbow had completely healed, but active movement, both of flexion and extension, was very slight; the muscles were much atrophied. Even- tually the knee-joint recovered without any impairment of mobility and the patient was able to walk without limping. Some sinuses were still open about the calf, but did not communicate with the joint. The excised elbow two yeans later, as far as utility was concerned, was in no way inferior to a normal joint, save only that pro- and supination were limited. Three years after the excision, the patient was attacked rather suddenly with suppuration of the knee-joint, and died shortly after of caseous pneumonia. Post mortem: the liver, spleen and kidneys were found to he lardaceous. On examining the resected elbow, a perfect ginglymus was found and a very complete joint had been reproduced.1 Ankylosis of the Elbow-Joint following Chronic Kheumatism. In two cases that came under my care, the ankylosis was partial, and a slight amount of flexion and extension was permitted. Under an anaesthetic the movements were rendered perfectly free by forcibly breaking down some adhesions, but in neither case was any increased power of movement eventually obtained, nor was the utility of the limb improved. Daily passive movement in such cases is so painful, and followed so constantly by swelling of the part, that the sufferers soon lose patience. Where there is still a certain amount of move- ment matters can be somewhat improved by orthopaedic and gymnastic treatment, if persevered in for some years. When the inflammatory process has lasted for some years, and is followed by complete immobility of the joint, we may consider ourselves—and the patients fortunate, if the disease terminates in ankylosis; nothing better can be hoped for in such cases. Sometimes, it is true, caries takes place with partial bony ankylosis; in such cases I This.case is more fully described by Dr. von Czerny in the ‘Arch, fur Klin. Ghir., Bd. xiii, I. Compare Mr. Symo’s case recorded and figured in the Lancet vol. 1,1855, and described in Holmes’s ‘ Principles and Practice of Surgery,’ p. 896, 1st edition. [Ed.]