440 RESECTION OF FEMUR ON RHEA BARTON’S PLAN. of the femur, and the other to cut out a wedge-shaped piece out of the femur, close above the lower epiphysis (resection or osteo- tomy of Rhea Barton). Eventually I selected the latter opera- tion, for by the other method the mobility which existed would have been sacrificed, and again, by the injury that probably would have been inflicted upon the lower epiphysis, the leg would have become very much shortened; by means of Rhea Barton's opera- tion the epiphysis could be preserved. I proceeded to perform the following operation on the left thigh. I cut down on the femur, a little above the spot where the upper border of the large bursa connected with the knee-joint lies beneath the quadriceps* The periosteum was then divided, and detached from the posterior surface of the bone. I then passed the chain saw beneath the bone and sawed obliquely through it upwards and forwards. As soon as I had cut through the femur, I was able immediately to straighten the leg. It seemed to me quite unnecessary, therefore, to saw off a corresponding piece from the lower end, but still I did so in order to carry out the operation as advised. The limb was now placed in a plaster bandage in a position of complete extension. The reaction that followed was remarkably slight, and the operation wound had completely closed up within six weeks. Two months after it had healed, I performed a similar osteotomy on the right thigh, but on this occa- sion I did not remove any portion of bone, and merely divided the femur obliquely ; although at the time of operation this was sufficient to allow the limb to be completely straightened, yet later on we found that the result was not so good as in the other leg. In three months the patient was able to get about the ward, supporting himself by the beds and walls, or with the help of crutches. Both femora were firmly united and almost straight. Some eight months later I heard again of the boy, and from a plaster cast which was sent me, saw that the knees had again become somewhat bowed. The right knee could be extended to an angle of 163° and flexed to ioo°—the left from 1440 to 90.0 The boy was able to walk fairly well without using stick or crutches, though his gait was awkward. The feet spread outwards, and the upper part of the body craned forwards. On the whole the success of the operations, especially as regards the slight reaction which followed on both occasions, exceeded my most sanguine expectations. Andreas R—, act. 38, a strong, well nourished man, suffered from chronic inflammation of tho left knee-joint when he was sixteen years of age. According to the description of the patient, tho disease seemed to have com-