230 RETRO-PERITONEAL CELLULITIS AND ABSCESS. Elizabeth K—, aff. 43, had suffered previously from suppuration of the cervical lymphatic glands, and erysipelas ; subsequently she had abscesses in the sole of the right foot, below the right clavicle, and over the seventh and eighth ribs. Six weeks before she was admitted, she complained of pain in the right thigh, contraction of the lower limb, and abdominal swelling. On examination, a retro-peritoneal tumour, the size of a man’s head, was discovered in the abdomen. We observed the swelling gradually descend from day to day to the inner side of the right thigh. She had no disease of the vertebral column. At her own request she left the hospital in this condition; then for five weeks she was compelled to keep her bed at home, and suffered for a long time from severe diarrhoea. Gradually the tumour became less and less, the movements of the leg became more free, the strength returned, and she recovered completely. It was doubtful in this case whether the collection of pus, which certainly existed, made its way through the intestines and so escaped during her attack of diarrhoea, or whether it was absorbed. Considering the large size of the collection, the latter supposition seems highly improbable. Caspar E., set. 33, had suffered from chronic suppuration, and periostitis of one of the metacarpal bones, seven years previously. Two years later he had severe pain in the pelvis, rapidly increasing to such an extent, that it prevented him from getting about; both thighs were flexed. He gradually recovered, and began to move about a little on crutches, and in the course of two years, was able again to walk quite uprightly. For some time then he remained perfectly well. A month before admission he was attacked with a severe rigor, and the next day felt lancinating pains in the region of the left hip. The leg again became drawn up, and he was forced to adopt a stooping mode of progression; for some few days before admission he had pains also in the right hip. Retro-peritoneal abscesses could be felt on both sides, just above Poupart’s ligament. These broke, and he died in consequence of the extensive suppuration. Post mortem : retro-peritoneal abscesses were found on both sides, extending along the psoas up to the twelfth dorsal vertebrae. The abscesses did not communicate with each other nor with the vertebrae, nor were the bones of the pelvis diseased. The following case, which was at one time supposed to be an abscess in the abdominal wall, may here be recorded : M. S—, aet. 68, had noticed about a month before admission, a painful swelling a little to the left of the umbilicus. No cause could be assigned for its commencement. At the outset it was not painful on pressure, but occasioned merely some shooting pain in walking. The patient was a well-nourished spare woman, and with the exception of this local trouble, was in tolerable health. The tumour lay in the abdominal walls, like a disc, and had almost exactly the appearance of a moderate sized boil.