MALFORMATIONS. SYNDAOTILIA. 375 Kaspar L—, aff. 17, was severely burned about tbe right wrist when two years of age; the wound, wbicb was deep and extensive, took two months to cicatrise. As tbe contraction of tbe cicatrix was strongest on tbe dorsum of tbe wrist-joint tbe hand became strongly abducted and bent over to tbe ulnar side. (See Fig. 18 a.) Tbe patient, whose health was good, was seriously inconvenienced in bis work through this deformity, so that it became highly important to correct it if possible. It appeared that the ulna, pressed upon by the cicatrix, had not kept pace in growth with the radius ; the latter bone was markedly curved; flexion and extension at the wrist-joint were normal; adduction and abduction somewhat interfered with, while scarcely any pro- and supination was permitted. The deformed position of the hand was his chief trouble. f. It would have been of no use in this case to stretoh the cicatrix, on account of the oblique position of the radial articular surface at the wrist; it appeared to me better to shorten the radius, which was relatively too long. Accordingly I removed with the saw a piece of this hone 4/5 centimetres in length, taking it from the lower curved part of bone, and preserving the periosteum. The limb was put in a plaster-of-Paris bandage with a window. When the patient was discharged three months later, the position of the hand was as shown in the illustration Fig. 18 b. He could write and do light work, but there was still a certain amount of stiffness in the movements of the hand ; the union of the radius was perfectly solid. Contraction of the palmar fascia. A dyer, set. 58, came under my care, for constantly increasing contraction of the palmar fascia, from which he had been suffering for two years. The tense bands were divided as far as possible, subcutaneously. After the operation, the fingers could be completely extended; the hand was bound to a splint, but considerable suppuration followed, which lasted three months, and when it ceased the condition of the hand was no better than before. No further attempts were made to effect a cure. Malformations. Syndactylia. A child, set. 6, was admitted with a curious deformity of the hand. On the right hand there were only four metacarpal bones. At the end of the fourth the pulp of the finger was well developed on the volar side, but below, the bone was somewhat broader than normal. Attached to its head were the two first phalanges, which were connected to each other by bone; at their bases they diverged from each other at about an angle of 8o°. All the first phalanges were connected by a web of skin, and on each of the two first was a well-developed middle and distal phalanx which were very little