2G0 TREATMENT OE VESICAL CATARRH. of the bladder, the ureters, or the pelvis of the kidney ever occurs and gives rise to the complex symptoms of irritable bladder, for I have never had an opportunity in any of these patients, of making a post- mortem examination; I consider it, however, very probable that such is the explanation. Cases of idiopathic catarrh of the bladder (from which category I exclude gonorrhoeal cystitis) are, so far as my limited experience extends, of exceeding rarity. I agree with Coulson that the symptoms which strike the eye most are rather those of catarrh of the pelvis of the kidney, with or without tuber- cular disease of that organ (chronic caseating nephritis). As the disease progresses, it will usually betray itself by the familiar symptoms, especially when the pyelitis is completely established, with abundant purulent sediment in acid urine. Alkaline urine occurs only in the secondary stage of vesical catarrh, though undoubtedly, it is very soon manifest. It is most commonly due to long retention, fermentation of the urine set up by materials introduced on catheters, foreign bodies, or tumours of the bladder. Perhaps also, in simple idiopathic catarrh of the bladder with acid urine, the introduction of fermentative matter, such as infusoria or fungi, may alter the secretion of the mucous membrane and lead to purulent alkaline catarrh. This cannot be so common as some suppose, for we see that pyelitis and vesical catarrh will go on for many years unchanged, and without the urine becoming alkaline. Ordinary pus of itself does not set up alkaline fermen- tation of the urine in the bladder; this change is due to some special variety of pus, or perhaps to some special animal or vege- table ferment. The treatment of catarrh of the urinary passages like the treat- ment of chronic catarrh generally, is highly unsatisfactory. The affection appears to me as incurable as cancer or tubercle, and is only less dangerous in that it is not so rapidly fatal. Idiopathic catarrh of the urinary mucous membranes is connected with con- stitutional disturbances of which we know little. I have occupied myself a good deal with this subject. The classical works of Coulson, Thompson and others, mention a great number of remedies which I have tried over and over again. Purulent catarrh of the bladder with alkaline urine, will be greatly improved by washing out the bladder daily through a double catheter. Not infrequently the alkalinity of the urine can be completely remedied. A drop or two of sulphuric acid should be added to each ounce of water