LAPAIIO-HYSTEROTOMY. 312 of extirpation of the uterus; the volvulus was found, but both patients died. Post-mortem, we discovered that the enterotomy was above the twisted portion of the gut in one case, and below it in the other. With regard to the cause of death, I may say that I lost no case during the first twenty-four hours. Eight of my cases, however, died within forty-eight hours. I ascribe death in these cases to septic peritonitis, even if secondary haemorrhage took place. Eng- lish surgeons would have attributed the result to “ shock.” Eighteen patients died of peritonitis between the third and the seventh day, and the others from various causes. Laparo-Hysterotomy. (W. B., 1876.) Up to the end of 1876, I had performed laparo-hysterotomy in seven cases of uterine fibroma.1 Remarks on the first three opera- tions will be found in the 'Wien. Med. Woch/for 1876, No. 1. I have there explained how I have modified my former method of operating. Cases occur, especially in young girls and women, in which the fibroma grows no slower than an ovarian tumour; the patients may become very helpless merely from the weight of the growth, but their life, supposing that no haemorrhage occurs, is much less directly endangered. The sufferers often remain for many years fairly nourished, and up to a certain stage in the tumour, their pains do not increase markedly. These fibromata are new forma- tions, of a more firm and solid tissue than most colloid tumours of the ovaries. The latter entail danger, not only from their enormous size, sometimes reaching that ordinarily attained by cysts, but espe- cially from the breaking down and death of the tissue, and the softening. When such changes take place in these tumours, chemical products are generated, whose absorption renders the sufferer cachectic and much reduced. Until the size and the weight of an uterine fibroma of itself becomes fatal to the organism, the patients can very well go on for ten years or more, especially if the condi- tions of life are favourable, and they are not compelled to under- take any heavy work. In the case of sucli women, a rapidly fatal issue’'cannot be foretold with such positive certainty as in women 1 Some further cases are recorded by Dr, J. Mikulicz in the * Wien. Med. Woch,,’ March, 1879,