504 PROGRESS OE FIRST CASE. could with difficulty be passed through. Microscopical examination showed the tumour to be an alveolar colloid cancer, and a similar morbid growth was found in the lymphatic glands. ! t. The progress of the case was favourable. On the second, tenth, and twelfth days the temperature rose to 390 C., and during the intervals it varied between 370 and 38-4° C. On the fifteenth day it was normal. With the exception of a feeling of weight during the first twenty-four hours, the patient had no particular subjective sensations. The abdomen kept flaccid, there wTas no vomiting, and from the very first flatus passed abundantly. During the first day the patient had nothing but ice, on the second day acid milk (a coffee-spoonful every hour), subsequently sweetened milk, and then gradually coffee, cocoa, tea, port wine, eggs, biscuits, and “ schinken.” On the twentieth day after the operation, our patient was able to eat a cutlet with the best of appetite, and on the following day a beef-steak. As I have already mentioned, neither the peptone nor the pancreatic injections were tolerated. It was found that they caused flatulence and colic. Wine enemata were persevered in with advantage up to the thirteenth day. During the first twelve days the state of the bowels gave rise to some anxiety. Although the patient ate comparatively little, still large quantities of faeces were passed, but so hard were they that the nurse had sometimes to scoop them out with her fingers. The motions were so white and chalk-like that we feared that the functions of the bile were not properly discharged. As soon, however, as the patient began to take solid food, the stools (at the end of the second week) again became of a brown colour and the faecal masses diminished in size, a proof that the peptonising functions of the stomach had recommenced. The abdominal incision was completely healed by the eighth day. A few days later an infiltration, which scarcely gave any pain, could be felt beneath the cicatrix, but this had almost disappeared when the patient was discharged at her special request on the 20th February. The further treatment of the case was carried on by Drs. Mikulicz and Ehrendorfer. On the 10th April (seven weeks after her discharge) I heard that her condition was very satisfactory; her nutrition was distinctly improved, she could take any kind of food, the bowels acted normally, and she was able to be about all day.