498 RESECTION OE THE DISEASED PYLORUS. This is not, however, always necessary, for by means of blunt forceps the great omentum may be detached without any hsemor- rhage; the lesser omentum is then separated in the same way. In detaching the omentum enlarged lymphatic glands may be met with requiring removal. During the entire operation the portion of the stomach which it is intended to replace must be covered by cloths which have been soaked for fourteen days in 5 per cent, carbolic solution, and wrung out of warm water or warm thymol solution before the operation. When the part to be resected is completely exposed the most difficult and disagreeable steps are over. After the stomach has been isolated, a large, flat, disinfected sponge or cloth should be laid beneath the viscus, so that the further mani- pulations may be carried out with ease and care. Ey gently lifting out the stomach as far as is necessary all further proceedings may be conducted outside the peritoneal cavity. The sponge and cloth will prove a valuable protection if any contents left in the stomach escape when it is cut into. (3.) Resection of the diseased portion.—If it is intended to attach the duodenum to the lesser curvature of the stomach, as in our first two cases (see Plate III, figs. 2 aud 5), the incisions are best made as shown in Plate III, figs. 1 and 3. The tumour being seized with the vulsellum, the walls of the stomach are cut through with scissors, commencing at the greater curvature. After each stroke of the scissors any bleeding points are secured; about two thirds must be divided. If it be found that the stomach is not completely empty, the contents should be soaked up with a sponge specially reserved for this purpose. All vessels are now ligatured with fine antiseptic silk, and the cut edges of the stomach so united together that the serous coats are applied to each other. Billroth applies superficial sutures where necessary, in addition to intestinal sutures. The knotted threads are left hanging for the time (Plate III, fig. 3, and fig. 4 n), so as to hold the stomach. The cancerous pylorus is now connected to the intestine alone. Pig. 4 shows the manner in which the division is commenced in order to separate it from the horizontal part of the duodenum. If there is any fear lest the portion of duodenum should slip away when the division is completed, a few silk threads may be passed, as shown in fig. 4 L. If they are required it will be found better to pass them through the anterior wall of the gut. A small sponge may be inserted temporarily into the duodenum.