ANTISEPTIC SPRAY. DRAINAGE. 307 the antiseptic method, this time employing the steam spray with a i per cent, solution. I had no further deaths from carbolism, but even in simple cases, where I returned the pedicle, the results were so unsuccessful that I again abandoned this method. It is difficult when the spray has been employed, and vomiting and collapse follow, to tell whether the symptoms should be ascribed to the chloroform, the carbolic acid, or to septic peritonitis. Apart from this, even among some of my successful cases, the suppuration was so extensive and severe that I was kept in a constant state of anxiety. In my earlier experience I had never seen suppuration prove fatal at the end of the second week and later. At the time that I am speaking of, I saw it happen in the fourth week after the clamp had separated, and the wound healed. In some cases I made incisions in the abdominal walls wherever dulness led me to expect suppuration, and in this way was able, though with great difficulty, to save a few of the patients. I can see no harm in using the spray during the dressing of the wound; I can hardly say whether the spray is really necessary if great attention be paid to cleanliness. On three occasions I performed ovariotomy under the thymol spray (riooo) having seen good results in other operations. Two of the patients died of septic peritonitis; one recovered, but her life was endangered by numerous abscesses; one large abscess extended back up as far as the kidney, and was opened in that region. I have now therefore, entirely discarded the spray in ovariotomy while the abdominal cavity is open; it will require a strong induce- ment to persuade me to revert to its use.1 With regard to the drainage of the wound, I usually employ the ordinary india-rubber drainage tubes. Primary drainage appears to me unnecessary, if there is no ascitic fluid, and when no adhesions from which haemorrhage might be expected have been torn through. Out of fifty-one successive cases, I met with but one in which these conditions existed. Comparing the statistics of cases where drainage was employed with those in which it was not, I find a slight difference only in favour of the former method, but I can recall many severe cases in which, in my opinion, the drainage was the means of saving 1 The above remarks refer to his practice up to the year 1877. In the early part of 1879 the translator had the pleasure of seeing Prof. Billroth perform ovariotomy under the constant use of the thymol spray. See note at end of this chapter.—[Ed.]