207 NEURALGIA OF BREAST. HYPERTROPHY. the parts left as before. Two years later v. Pitlia removed the painful por- tion of the gland, but again without benefit. When I saw her, there was only a small portion of the upper part of the gland remaining, chiefly con- sisting of fat, but in this, on minute examination, painful spots could be detected. On the supposition that these possibly might be small neuromata I removed the painful portion, but found in it no trace of anything abnor- mal. At first her sufferings were relieved, but the pain then returned in and about the cicatrix with all its former intensity. This is the first case of neuralgia of the mamma, which I have had an opportunity of observing. As in the other cases which I have met with in surgical literature the patient was a highly hysterical woman, dark and stout. As long as she was compelled to busy herself in household affairs, and in attending to her husband, she seemed to be perfectly well; directly she was idle, or was reminded of her state of health, the pains occurred with severity. Gradually, her condition became intolerable to those round about her. She absolutely declined injections of morphia, stating that some time previously, as the result of an injection, she was brought into a state of great excitement followed by depression. She fre- quently consulted me, and I tried all kinds of remedies, none of which unfortunately gave her any benefit. I often had an impression that there was some insanity mixed up with her con- dition. Possibly these and similar conditions are only a form of intercostal neuralgia, usually depending on some central nervous affection ; of course, cases where small painful tumours exist in the gland must be excepted. Hypertrophy of the mavmce. M. S—, set. 16, was admitted under Professor Carl Braun, who was kind enough to supply the following information with regard to the case : “ The patient was a virgin. The catamenia commenced in November 1867, when she was fourteen years of age. Up to the end of April i8()S, the breasts were quite small. In the course of the next two months, they attained the size shown in Fig. ig, then for some months became much smaller, but in October of the same year, they again rapidly increased to their former dimensions. The base of the left breast measured 23 inches in cir- cumference. ihe measurement from the lower edge of the third rib, at the attachment of the breast to the nipple was ioif inches; the transverse measurement 9 inches. The circumference of the base of the right breast was ipi inches. From the third rib to tho nipple 9 J inches, the transverse diameter 8A Ihe measurements were taken when the breasts were hanging down. I wo years later we heard that tho breasts diminished considerably in