3S5 PULSATING SARCOMA OR PELVIS. that he had suffered for twenty years from an intermittent fever, which was constantly recurring. About four years before admission, as he was lifting- a heavy stone, he experienced a sudden sharp pain in the sacral region, which lasted for about a week, but was not sufficiently severe to prevent his working. The pain, though only slight, persisted at the seat of injury, and two years later, when engaged in some rather heavy work, it recurred with greater violence. He then noticed a painful swelling in the neighbourhood of the- sacrum. For ten weeks he was laid up; the swelling did not materially increase, and at the expiration of that period he resumed work. About eighteen months later, when engaged in some tunnelling work, the pain in the pelvic tumour increased to such a degree that he was forced to seek medical aid. For some time, he had noticed distinct pulsation in the growth- He then came under the care of the late Professor 0. Weber who attempted compression of the tumour; this treatment however, the patient would not hear, and left the hospital. While journeying to Italy, the pain increased with such severity that he was forced to stop short at Zurich. When I saw him, I found an ill-defined tumour, the size of the palm of the hand, over the right sacro-iliac joint. The growth was'raised up about an inch from the surface of the surrounding parts, and the skin over it altered in appearance. The tumour was hard at the edges, of soft consistence in the centre. Pulsa- tion was everywhere distinctly perceptible, and the whole mass was slightly compressible. Ho aneurismal bruit was audible. The tumour projected to some extent into the rectum, and was estimated to be of the size of a fcetal head. Subcutaneous injections of morphia and the application of cold gave- him some relief; the injection of a few drops of perchloride of iron, had no effect, good or had. Professor Weber had diagnosed pulsating sarcoma, with which opinion I concurred. Two months later the tumour had increased to such an extent that it reached from the right sacro-iliac articulation, over the right venter ilii, and from the crest of the ilium down to the sciatic notch ; the growth was firm, resistant, and pulsated but slightly. The skin over the upper part was of a dull blue colour ; the- lower extremities were slightly cedematous. Pulsation could be distinctly felt on examination by the rectum, and the tumour had extended further into the pelvis than it did two months before ; it gave, however less pain. The tumour was injected on a few occasions with Liq. Ferri Perchlor. with- out any material benefit. Finally, he was attacked with repeated rigors, the tumour began to increase rapidly, erysipelas followed, and he died of marasmus, four years and eight months after the commencement of the disease. Post mortem, we found a sarcoma telangiectodes cysticum of the right ilium, metatastic sarcomata in both lungs and on both pleura, tumor lienis, sarcoma in the thyroid gland, and metatastic myxo-sarcomatous- deposit in the medullary cavity of the third rib. Microscopically the tumour was found to be a very vascular alveolar sarcoma.