RHINORLASTIC OPERATIONS. 83 was reduced to quantitative perception of light. When the patient was admitted, I doubted whether I ought not to have at once performed a blepharoplastic operation; this seemed, however, risky, considering the inflamed condition of the eye. On the left eye, I performed a blepharoplastic operation, bor- rowing the flaps from the temporal region. The result was most unexpectedly favourable not only with regard to the covering of the cornea, but in appear- ance. The infiltration of the cornea, together with the conjunctivitis, dis- appeared very shortly after the operation. The vision of the left eye was not only preserved by the blepharoplastic proceeding, but improved by the gradual and complete clearing of the cornea. An attack of erysipelas, which reduced the patient very much, prevented me from performing a similar operation on the right eye. Rhinoplastic Operations. Three patients came under my care at the Zurich Hospital, in whom there was complete or nearly complete destruction of the nose, the result either of caries of the bony framework of the nose, or of syphilitic ulceration. In all three cases, rhinoplastic operations from the forehead were performed with successful results. One of these patients died of albuminuria a few months after operation. My attempts to utilise, as much as possible, the remnants of the nose, convince me, as it has also other experienced operators, that such endeavours are not advisable. The remnants of the shrunken cartilages of the nose, in spite of all possible padding with the other soft parts, invariably contract again during cicatriza- tion. The ake of the nose, and the process of the septum alone, cannot be too carefully preserved. In three rhinoplastic cases I utilised the periosteum of the frontal bone for the new nose, but in none was there any new osseous formation. The wounds on the forehead healed more slowly and remained longer adherent to the bone than in the older and more usual procedure. Two of the cases where I performed total rhinoplastic operations were asso- ciated with partial defect of the upper lip. I first performed a cheiloplastic, and then immediately proceeded to the rhinoplastic operation. I cannot, however, recommend this proceeding; healing by first intention is endangered by the numerous sutures which meet together at the upper lip. In both the cases the septum healed but partially, and had to be completed by a later operation. It is always better first to form the upper lip; when this has completely healed, the rhinoplastic part of the operation may be undertaken. Of fourteen complete and nearly complete rhinoplastic operations (cases of cancer not included) performed between the years i860