CHAPTER XVIII. ON STATISTICS OF AMPUTATIONS, RESECTIONS, AND OSTEO- TOMIES.1 We have long been accustomed to set great value on the results of amputations and resections, and not only to form an opinion of the different methods of operating and of after-treatment from such statistics, but also to look upon them as a test of operative surgery generally, as well as of sanitary and hygienic administration. Much may be said against and much in favour of such a view. In favour of it may be said, that it is easier to tabulate these operations cate- gorically than any others, and that, in this branch of operative sur- gery, cases resembling each other can be taken as a basis for statistics. Eurther, these operations are particularly liable to com- plications, owing to the injuries inflicted on the skin, cellular tissue, muscles, large vessels or bones, and as they demand careful circum- spection on various points are thus best adapted to enlighten us. On the other hand, it may be said that the similarity of the cases is not so great as it would seem at first sight, and it is only by the necessary grouping together of the several cases at the discretion of the operator that a practical basis for statistics can be made. It might be said that the treatment of large cavernous wounds after the removal of tumours, especially the more critical operations, such .as laparotomies, give us a far wider field of view than do amputa- tions, and constitute a much better criterion of the state of our knowledge. No doubt it is possible that as the operation of laparotomy becomes more extensively and more frequently prac- tised, this point of view may assume a more prominent position hereafter. Eor the present, laparotomies are not of sufficiently frequent occurrence in the surgical wards of our hospitals, to form a basis for general statistics. Again, operations for the removal of tumours, with the single exception perhaps of simple cases of 1 Some additional statistics by Dr. A. Wdlflcr will be found in the * Wien. -Med. Wocli.,’ April, 1881, No. 17 et seg.—[Ed.]