IODINE INJECTIONS IN CYSTIC BEONOHOCELE. 159 cysts. Puncture with an exploring trocar so as to let out a few drops of the fluid is not a dangerous proceeding. The puncture of parenchymatous bronchoceles if carefully conducted, does not, as a rule, lead to any inflammation of the thyroid. In one case of a single large cyst in a man, set. 32, the cyst was punctured and a drainage tube left in. Moderate reaction followed. When the patient came under my care he had a fistulous opening which, by- repeated injections of iodine, we succeeded at last in closing, six months after the original operation. Another patient, an old man, in whom ten years previously a small incision had been made into a thyroid cyst by my predecessor, came back to the hospital on account of some slight injury. He still had a fistulous opening leading into the cyst; but little secre- tion, however, came from it, and he would not allow of any treat- ment. In ten cases the method of v. Bruns and v. Chelius Juu was adopted, i.e. the cyst was laid open and its edges united to the skin. On three occasions this was performed as a secondary mea- sure, on patients in a feverish condition (case of J. S—,supra). Two other cases died, one of pyaemia twenty-nine days after the operation, while the other, who had been nearly asphyxiated by the growth, died of septicaemia. Puncture and injection of iodine.—After puncture half an ounce of Tinct. Iodi. Fort, (one dram of iodine dissolved in ether to one ounce of absolute alcohol), was injected and left in, and then a collodion bandage1 was placed on the anterior half of the neck. While at Zurich I had twenty such cases. Fifteen of these were in women and girls, from twelve to twenty-nine years of age, and five in men and boys, from twelve to thirty-two. In all instances the thyroid cyst, which so far as could be judged was simple, was per- manently cured. In many of these patients diffused hypertrophy of the thyroid, or parenchymatous bronchoceles existed at the same time. In many instances the bronchoceles were completely covered by the cysts, which at times were as large as a man’s head. I mention this, because it is interesting and important to know that the coexistence of hypertrophied thyroid and solid bronchoceles does not contra-indicate the puncture of the cyst and the injection of iodine. Unfortunately, however, the treatment of the cyst has 1 I.e. strips of gauze of a finger’s breadth soaked in collodion, a form of bandage much employed in some parts of Germany—[Ed.]