252 PROLAPSUS RECTI. TREATMENT OP HEMORRHOIDS. dilated by bougies. One woman died of erysipelas after this operation. All my cases of fissure (seven) recovered after cauterisation with nitrate of silver and application of zinc ointment, except one, where the condition returned as before. Prolapsus recti. A woman, set. 33, had. a prolapse of the rectum, which descended sometimes when the bowels acted, to the extent of three inches; she had some difficulty in reducing it. I applied fuming nitric acid to the prolapse over four strips of the mucous membrane, in a longitudinal direction, each a finger’s breadth. The patient was discharged in three weeks; the prolapse then no longer descended when the bowels acted. Fifteen months later the patient wrote that the prolapse had unfortunately returned to some extent, though it was not so bad as before. On the whole she felt much better. From this it may be seen that in such cases the effect of the fuming acid is not sufficient. In two cases treated by the actual cautery, I learned four years after the operation that the cure had been effectual. Hemorrhoids. (W. B.) The frequency of this affection is very unequally distributed throughout the world. It is very common among the Slav popu- lation, especially the Gallician Jews; even youths often suffer, and are so reduced by the loss of blood that at times operation is imperatively necessary to save life. In ten cases which came under my treatment in 1869-70, I adopted the method of cauterisation with the wire loop, which has been so successfully employed by von Langenbeck. One of these patients I saw after the lapse of a year, and was able to satisfy myself of the permanency of the cure. It can be easily understood than when a tendency to obstruction is associated with these hsemorrhoidal protrusions (which is more rarely the case than one might think) it cannot be removed by the operation. I usually removed the. haemorrhoids by means of the galvano-cautery. The patients were narcotised and placed in the same position as for the other methods of operating. The tumour was then drawn forward by forceps, and cut through as slowly as possible with the galvano-caustic loop, which ought scarcely to be