139 LARYNGOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY. with such implicit faith in the power of surgical art. I decided on the following operation:—An incision was made over the right side of the tumour, the capsule was split, and the whole mass of the tumour scooped out. As each separate pait was exposed penghawar was immediately applied. The right wall of the trachea was completely destroyed, hut we were now able to introduce a canula deeply down and leave it there. The haemorrhage was considerable, but easily controlled. The patient was much relieved by this proceeding; the secretion from the wound was but slight; the penghawar came away in about three weeks’ time, but even at that date some fresh for- mations were apparent in the deeper parts, and the relief could only have been of a veiy transitory nature. I am under the impression that some such treatment might be of use in many bronchoceles where the capsule is too firmly con- nected to the surrounding parts to admit of complete extirpation. It seems that Kocher has adopted this plan for some time, and had satisfactory results from it. Thirteen cases of laryngotomy and tracheotomy for laryngeal croup. All these patients at the time of operation were almost in a state of asphyxia. Only one recovered. One case occurred in a woman between twenty and thirty years of age, the others in children from two to ten years old. Laryngotomy through the conoid ligament was always performed in the latter. In one case I was unfortunate enough to see the patient die of suffocation under my hands. The patieut was a strong child, ;ct. 6, on whom laryngotomy was performed for severe croup. The operation was of considerable difficulty, for the child had a short fat neck and a very large thyroid gland. The incision into the larynx was in consequence made partly through the thyroid cartilage, and the canula had a great tendency to fall out. Three hours after the operation I was called to the child again by the parents, as he was breathing very badly. Finding the canula half out, I determined to enlarge the wound down- wards. With this object I placed the child on a table, close to the window of a very dark little room, and then earned a probe-pointed knife into the wound of the larynx. I had scarcely extended the incision for more than a line when a gush of blood welled up, which very quickly got into the trachea. I immediately introduced the canula, blew through it, and then attempted to secure the bleeding vessel with the forceps, but could not re-establish respiration. ibis is the only case in which a patient lias ever diet! immediately under the knife at my hands. It made a great and permanent