OPERATIVE TREATMENT. 152 neck, but the reaction is, as a rule, moderate and recovery rapid; certainly in most cases the patients are youthful. Of twenty-seven eases in which I extirpated the glands in this way I did not lose a single patient. One of my cases was a simple multiple lymphoma on both sides of the neck, iu a girl eighteen years of age. If the removal of the glands is not possible, we are then limited to the application of caustics, or incision and scraping out of the caseous matter, methods which will usually prove ultimately successful, if other conditions be favourable, though often not for months or years. These manipulations are often rendered very troublesome by the situation of the swellings, as, for instance, when the sinuses run deep under the sterno-mastoid muscle. Cauterisation with caustic potash or chloride of zinc arrowheads are the most potent remedies. If it is necessary to penetrate very deeply these remedies should not be employed too boldly, for fear of damaging the carotid artery or jugu- lar vein. Stick caustic is less dangerous. Caseous lymphatic swellings and sinuses may form in old people,1 but it is not advisable to be too bold in laying these open or removing the swelling. I saw one old man die after this operation, although he seemed to be by no means particularly feeble. No operation should be risked which will entail febrile reaction in those who have tuberculosis of the lungs, or a predisposition thereunto. In such cases local inter- ference must be avoided as much as possible, for it would not only be futile, but dangerous. Those who object to the extirpation of lymphomata assert that these operations are fruitless, inasmuch as fresh glands always become affected subsequently; this view is not, however, in all cases accurate. In my tables a list of cases will be found where the patients were known to be in good health some years after the operation, and that, too, in cases in which several glands had been extirpated. In six cases of rapidly growing soft lymphomata the exhibition of arsenic was employed, on three occasions with remarkable success. In one of these patients the lymphoma had affected the cervical, axillary, cubital, and inguinal glands on both sides, as well as those of the mesentery. The arsenical treatment was attended with great success for the time, but I have no later information about the patient. Of the other two cases, one occurred in a man with lym- phomata in both sides of the neck, both axillae, and who had at the same time a large mediastinal tumour; the other was a unilateral i Cf. Sir. J. Paget on “Senile Scrofula,” ‘Clin. Essays’ ist, E(l. p. 3-44-