74 PATHOLOGY OP PHOSPHORUS PERIOSTITIS. after typlms. The disease at the commencement comparatively seldom takes the form of suppurative periostitis and osteo-myelitis. At the outset the periosteum and gum thicken; young bone is, in consequence, very rapidly produced from the germ tissue, partly developing on the surface of the bone, partly from the layer of periosteum immediately in connection with it. In the great majority of cases phosphorus periostitis is, like other forms of chronic periostitis, primarily an osteo-plastic process. Ulceration and suppuration occur at a later stage of the disease. The sub- stance poured out to form the cast of new bone on the superficial surface of the diseased jaw, begins to melt away; in part it forms granulation tissue, in part it breaks down into pus; thus, the shell of bone becomes entirely detached from the jawr, and new formation and thickening only take place on its outer surface. The steps of the process are similar to those observed in normal growth of bone, viz. apposition of the periosteum, and breaking down of the first- formed inner layers into the marrow (in this instance into granulation material and eventually into pus). If the process went on with per- fect regularity, the newly-formed invaginating bone would become continually thicker and thicker, and eventually separate itself entirely from the jaw. Further, by suppuration of the vessels passing from the periosteum into the bone, the jaw wTould be cut off from the circulation, and thrown off in toio as a sequestrum. Naturally the bony investment would be incomplete, as none would be formed where the teeth are implanted. But the changes by no means go on with such uniformity; the ulcerative process of the superficial surface of the jaw progresses with great irregularity. The invagi- nating bone is broken through by caries and ulceration from within. As long as circulation goes on in the medulla of the jaw central softening changes take place; granulation masses, forming bone and then breaking down, originate in the alveoli and around the sockets of the teeth; the flow of blood to the jaw from without is checked here and there. By collateral circulation the medulla is supplied, so that the outer part of the jaw dies, while the inner part is kept alive; the investing layers of bone are often destroyed in their growth; here and there the new bone substance melts away by ulce- ration, or partial necrosis takes place; abscesses form around the jaw, and at times acute inflammation of the mucous membrane of the mouth or tongue is added, thus further interfering with the cir- culation. The process fluctuates between osteo-plastic or ulcerative