BURSAL TUMOUR. OSTEOMATA. NEURO-EIBROMA. 44*7 About a year after the fall he discovered a growth about the size of a hazel nut on the painful spot, close above and on the outer side of the knee-joint. The tumour grew slowly but constantly, and gave no pain. The patient was a perfectly healthy, athletic man. Just above the right knee-joint could be felt a nodulated, bony hard tumour, covered over by a soft, almost fluc- tuating mass; the entire new formation was the size of a foetal head. It interfered somewhat with the movements of the knee-joint, but did not oocasion any great discomfort. The patient had consulted Balassa, and also Schuh, who had wisely dissuaded him from operation. I took the growth to be an exostosis of the epiphysal cartilage, over which a bursa had formed secondarily. The bursa did not seem to communicate with the joint, as the fluid could not be pressed from one cavity to the other. I acceded to the patient’s earnest request and removed the tumour, extirpating the bursa and sawing through the exostosis; the latter was invested with cartilage, and had a broad base of attachment. Professor Eindfleisch, who took a great interest in the case, had no doubt that the bursa over the tumour of the bone was a process of the synovial membrane of the joint. During the operation I was unable to trace any connection between the sac and the bursa beneath the joint. Unfortunately the result was calamitous, as the patient died in five days of septicaemia. We were unable to obtain a post mortem. Multiple osteomata. A. D—, set. 8, had, on both femora, tibiae, and one of the bones of each forearm, numerous fixed tumours of the size of a hazel nut, and of bony hardness. No impairment of function. Neuro-fibroma of the sciatic nerve. Leopold S , set. 32. Thirteen years previously he had received a kick in the left gluteal region, which gave him such intense pain that he fell to the ground. After a few days the pain became less severe, but some tenderness persisted. Two years and a half before admission the pain again became worse, and extended down to the left leg as far as the toes. For twelve months, the patient had noticed a deeply situated hard tumour, near the tu jei osity of the left ischium ; pressure on the growth caused intense pain (own ie eg. I lie tumour had been increasing rapidly up till the time cj' admission, and was then the size of a large foetal head. The soft parts over ' r 'veresti-etcicd, and severe pain was experienced on pressure over any part o . ic eg. <01 a long time ho had been confined to his bod, lying usually wit 1 t ie knee flexed. I found considerable difficulty in dissecting out the turnout. I he nerve bundles were pressed out and flattened into strips;