191 PENETRATING WOUNDS OE THORAX. on the point of suffocation. Water was injected, after Griesinger’s method,1 so as to convert the pneumothorax into hydrothorax. The patient rallied a little and the dyspnoea somewhat diminished. Fifteen days after the injury, severe haemorrhage took place from the wound on the right side ; this was controlled, hut collapse set in, and he died from increasing weakness and dyspnoea, thirty days after the injury. Post mortem : pjo-pneumothorax on the left side, and a wound of the right internal mammary artery. U. M—, aet. 30, a strong man, was stabbed in the breast by a drunken comrade armed with a poignard. Blood flowed freely from a wound in the right first intercostal space, close to the sternum. A medical man was called in and the wound most carefully closed with three button sutures. The next day the patient was brought up to the hospital; there was then dul- ness on the right side from the middle of the scapula downwards ; air and blood passed out by the side of the sutures. In order to determine whether the haemorrhage came from the thoracic wall, the wound was reopened, and was found to extend deep down into the thorax. Dark blood welled from the cavity. The wound was again closed firmly with sutures. The patient had much difficulty in breathing, and complained of great pain in the right side of the thorax. There was some cough, but the sputa, which were brought up with some difficulty, were unmixed with blood. Two days after the injury the dyspnoea increased and was not relieved in any degree by venesection ; collapse and death followed the next day. Post mortem : in the innominate vein, opposite the opening of the vena cava superior, was a wound about a ctm. in length, with somewhat irregular edges ; firm adhesions of the right upper part of the lung, the pleura extensively covered with diy, fibrous lymph ; in the right pleural cavity about 30 oz. of blood, partly fluid, but containing also much clot; the apices and the anterior halves of the lower lobes of the lungs alone contained air. Extensive sugilla- tion of the cellular tissue around the heart. Penetrating gunshot wound. K. T., art. 23, was shot in the back by a saloon gun at two paces distance. A medical man was called in, who drew a large paper wad from the bottom of the wound. There was but little haemorrhage ; some blood was coughed up. The patient was brought up the next day to the hospital; he then had some pain in breathing, and the respirations were shallow'. Close under the left scapula was a gap in the skin, the size of the palm of the hand, with lacerated and blackened edges. On examination with the finger the wound was found to extend deep down as far as the ribs. No fiactuie could be detected, and there seemed to be no foreign bodies in the wound. On the left side there was dulness, in front and behind. For four 01 five days all went on well, but then lie had increased fever and dysp- noea and lathei abundant discharge of serum from the wound. During the 1 ‘ v- Pitha and Billroth’s Chir.,’ Bd. iii, Abthl. ii, p. 161.