341 CONTUSIONS. arms were regularly galvanised, and after four months lie regained some power, so that he could move his fingers and hand to some extent, but the function of the hand was permanently impaired. Of the ultimate result of the case I have no record. Johannes B—, set. 30, was injured fourteen days before admission in the following manner: while driving a heavily laden three-horse waggon he was- thrown out, his left arm became entangled in the reins, and his clothes were caught by the wheel. When he succeeded in stopping the horses he found that his arm was caught under the wheel, and he could not release himself. In this situation he remained for four hours, until another waggoner, who happened to be passing by, extricated him. Great swelling of the injured limb followed, and after four days the blood, extravasated in the cellular tissue of the upper arm, broke down, and suppurated. After a time the swelling subsided, but complete paralysis of the musculo-spiral nerve became evident. Doubtless this had existed from the commencement, hut was masked by the swelling and immobility of the limb. When he] was discharged after a month the wound had healed, but the paralysis was un- altered; subsequently the latter affection disappeared spontaneously, and when I saw him a year later he was perfectly well. Contusion of elbow. Death. In the case of a man, set. 48, permanent swelling remained after a con- tusion of the elbow-joint; the patient had not sought for any treatment, but had gone on with his work as a mason, in spite of the pain in the part. Two months after the injury an acute abscess formed, and for a long time it was doubtful whether it would penetrate the joint; eventually it became evident that it had done so, and resection of the elbow-joint was proposed; to this, however, the patient would not submit, and he died of pyeemia. Contusion of wrist. Excision. Jacob Pf—, set. 33, a strong man, fell from a height of about eleven feet on to a heap of loose stones, and injured his hand and forearm. In spite of severe pain he went on with his work for a few hours. When admitted into the hospital a week later no fracture could be positively made out. The- arm was put up on a splint, and iodine and ice applied. After a time the pain became localised in the wrist, and he had all the symptoms of sub- acute inflammation of the joint, which progressed in spite of rest in plaster sp Hits and treatment with ice. Eventually suppuration took place in the join. msec that ankylosis might eventually take place without surgical in ci eience, ut the patient becamo much reduced, and as the extension of ic lsease s owed no tendency to stop, I determined on excision of the ' wo . a^eia^ incisions were made, and all the carpal bones, together with tie articular ends of the radius and ulna were resected. The bones;