66 PROGNOSIS OF NEURALGIA. disease. In these examinations there is perhaps a tendency to find something pathological a tout prix, which otherwise would scarcely have been thought deserving of mention. My own impression is, that the pains are commonly excited in a reflex manner, and that the apparatus for stopping such excitation has, as it were got out of order, from some unknown cause. It would be very desirable to know whether the constant current or neurotomy could, at any rate, in some few cases, effect a radical cure. What, again, is the percentage of the cases under treatment, where permanent benefit is derived from neurectomy or from neurotomy ? Is the result more decided and more lasting when the patients are operated on early or late ? Should our prognosis vary, according as the first, second, or third division of the nerve is affected ? An enormous array of statistics would be necessary, in order to give a general answer to these questions. What do we mean when we say that a neuralgia has been radically and permanently cured by operation ? Ought it to signify “ as long as the individual lives after the operation ?” When patients operated on die, say from typhus, some months after the operation, during which period they have been free from pain, nothing is proven as to the radical cure effected by the treatment, although the good effect lasted up to the death of the patient. In a disease, where sometimes for periods of years, no symptoms occur, and which sometimes disappears alto- gether just as it originated, from no known reason, or again, perhaps five years after a successful operation, suddenly comes back with intense severity, it is difficult to form any opinion as to the radical effect of any form of therapeutical treatment. In the majority of cases, it is true, the attacks of pain ceased to occur after operation. But the question arises, for how long ? It would be of great importance to find this out. I have given the point my utmost attention, but at the very outset one is met by serious difficulties; about many patients no subsequent history is obtainable, and when they do communicate, their descriptions are usually of little value. Generally speaking, the attacks return, but with less severity; it is very difficult, however, to learn the amount of improvement by means of correspondence with the patients. Bor the present, therefore, I prefer not to attempt to lay down any rules on the matter. Subjoined is a resume—imperfect, as I am well aware—of the results of special forms of treatment and operations.