CAUSATION OF ERYSIPELAS. 2 G theory it must be answered, that, when we take into account the results of careful observations, their views as regards accidental diseases of wounds can no longer be sustained. For reasons already given, it will be admitted that the cause or causes of erysipelas are always brought from without into the organism; they may be introduced during operations, by dressings, or by the air of the ward. I by no means conceal the fact that a view such as this of the etiology of erysipelas would to me be very acceptable; but obser- vations have, to my mind, unquestionably shown that, under cer- tain rare Conditions, the poison of erysipelas, with all its “ specific ” characteristics, as above explained, may develop in the body itself from substances which have no relation with the atmosphere or external influences. Thus it comes about that true erysipelas will develop in the skin over a joint affected with metastatic inflamma- tion. I noticed such an occurrence no long time since in a man who was attacked with pyrnmic inflammation of the elbow-joint after external urethrotomy. I satisfied myself, by the most careful examination, that there was not the slightest excoriation of the skin from which erysipelas could have originated. I can only explain the occurrence of this undoubted erysipelas on the supposi- tion that the products of inflammation penetrated, in some excep- tional way, through the lymphatic vessels from the synovial mem- brane to the cutis (that is to say, the current in the lymphatics was reversed), and thus set up the capillary lymphangitis. Closely related to, in fact, at times hardly to be distinguished from, true erysi- pelas, is the reddening of the skin over the joints in gout. Again, there is a form of dermatitis very similar to erysipelas which occa- sionally accompanies diphtheritic inflammation of the bladder or mucous membranes, and hospital gangrene; but in all these cases one prominent characteristic of traumatic erysipelas is wanting, viz. its power of spreading and wandering over the surface. In connection with pyrnmic exudations, aud in diphtheritis, arthritis, &c., phlogogenous material may be generated and pass into the lymph capillaries of the cutis, but it will not acquire the property of diffusing the process widely over the cutaneous sur- face. These are abortive varieties, as it were, when compared with the forms of erysipelas set up by infection. They possess a few, but not all, of the properties necessary to set up real erysipelas ; they are not thoroughly “ specific,” but, so to speak, only half caste.