308 DRAINAGE AFTER OVARIOTOMY. the patient's life. I must add, that it was a long time before I learned to employ free drainage, and could bring myself without hesitation, to insert six or eight drainage tubes in a single case. Ten years ago a surgeon would have been thought crazy for stuffing so much india-rubber into the abdomen. The first case in which I employed drainage through the vagina I shall not readily forget for it gave me very great anxiety. I had unluckily wounded one of the large vessels with my trocar. The haemorrhage was controlled, for a time, by pressure with sponges, but it recurred, and I was compelled the next day to reopen the wound, and clear out the cavity of the pelvis, which was full of blood-clot. The patient was fortunate enough to recover—a result which is not too common under such circumstances. It will be readily understood that after this I preferred to introduce the drainage-tubes only into the wound. Some two years after the above case, I again tried drainage through the vagina, at a time when I attributed much importance to washing out the lower part of the peritoneal cavity with carbolic acid. I inserted two drainage-tubes through Douglas's fold, but the injection did not return, although the tubes were not choked. The carbolic acid solution (5 per cent.) remained in the abdominal cavity, with the result that the patients who, it must be allowed, were already in a septic condition, were seized with rapid collapse. The wounds were opened and the pelvis sponged out, but without avail. I next adopted a long drainage tube, which was brought out above at the symphysis, and below through the vagina, so that the tube could be drawn backwards and forwards, and the openings readily cleared of clots. This method of drainage also I gave up, for I found that constant syringing or even almost continual irrigation were powerless in one case to prevent encysted collections of septic sanious fluid from forming in other parts. I came to the conclusion that Douglas’s space could only be perfectly drained by keeping the patients constantly in a sitting position. This is not always possible; if the patients lie on their backs some fluid will always collect in the cavity of the sacrum, as I have proved by dissection, and this fluid will not escape through the vaginal drain, unless the opening be dilated. After this experience, I entirely abandoned vaginal drainage, a method with which others have been more fortunate. In the more simple cases I insert only one drainage tube and pass the end deeply into Douglas's pouch; if more be required, 1 put in two or three in the same place, and pass one down between the