OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF NEURALGIA. 63 It appears to me beyond question that the operations were the means of prolonging this man’s life, or, at any rate, ol making it tolerable for some periods. Prom the scientific point of view the negative results of the post-mortem examination are very dis- heartening. The duration of the disease, dating from the commencement of the neuralgia to his death, was seven years. Do these two cases encourage us to undertake operations for neuralgia or not? The first, as it seems to me, speaks strongly in favour of neurotomy; in the second, a radical cure seemed scarcely possible, since no drugs—the subcutaneous injections excepted—had any power of alleviating, still less of curing the disease. By the operations the patient was repeatedly benefited, so that he passed many months free from pain. I am convinced that, had it not been for the operations, he would long before have put a bullet into his brain, for he was quite the man to do so. Bor mine own part, when the neuralgia is produced chiefly in a reflex manner, I should uot hesitate to proceed as I did in the cases described. If fresh recurrences took place and electricity failed, I would again excise the painful portions of the jaw, render the affected half of the face insensitive by cutting through the supplying nerve trunks, perhaps again ligature the carotid artery, and so forth. Mechanical treat- ment, such as this, and directed purely against symptoms, may be called irrational. Let us not deceive ourselves. Are we not per- petually in the same position with regard to internal diseases, where we can only alleviate the painful symptoms ? Our patients will thank us more for alleviating their sufferings, even by an irrational mode of treatment, than for a ‘rational’ therapeutic nihilism. Neuralgia of the fifth nerve. The two following cases are instances where the pain started from some manifest lasting irritation, but where there were no decided paroxysms. P- B—, a woman, set. 19. The left eyeball had been enucleated a year previously, and a right iridectomy had been performed for glaucoma. Bor seven weeks she had had intense, but not continual, pain in the tract of the right frontal nerve. This nerve was divided and the pain in the forehead ceased, but became subsequently much more intense in the right eyeball, and then in the track of the right supra-maxillary nerve. The constant current