ACUTE PERIOSTITIS AND OSTEOMYELITIS. 413 knee-joint affected at the same time, a point of interest, inasmuch as disease of the joint (whether acute or chronic synovitis) so frequently causes periarticular abscesses of the cellular tissue. I suspect, from the mode of extension of the inflammation, that the phlogogenous materials pass along the lymphatic channels into the tissue. Acute inflammation of the Jcnee. A youth, set. 16, received a blow on the knee three days before admission. Eor two days he followed his employment, hut then, on account of the great pain in moving about, sought advice. The patella was distinctly raised by the effusion ; the swelling of the part readily diminished under treatment, so that in eight days the patella had subsided to its normal place, and the abscess which existed seemed to he solely periarticular. The pus was let out by means of a trocar; although no air was allowed to enter, the puncture was followed by a high degree of fever. Eventually a free incision was made, a quantity of foul pus evacuated, and the feverish symptoms subsided. Recovery followed in thirteen weeks. Probably in this case the acute inflammation of the joint set up the periarticular abscess, and it is possible that there was no per- foration of the capsule. Acute Periostitis and Osteomyelitis.1 Acute periostitis and osteomyelitis of the femur. A boy, set. 8, was admitted with subacute osteomyelitis and osteoplastic periostitis of both femora, which had originated without any known cause. On the right side the upper epiphysis had become softened and detached with- out any suppuration and led to the spontaneous dislocation which was evident. This was reduced, and the limb put up in a plaster bandage. He was under treatment in the hospital for seven months, and subsequently recovered so far that he could jump and run without pain or limping. Acute periostitis and osteomyelitis of the tibia. A girl, set. 14, had a very acute attack of periostitis of the tibia, together with acute inflammation of the ankle-joint. The anterior surface of the tibia was completely exposed. In the course of a few weeks she had altogether sixteen rigors. • I diagnosed osteomyelitis with periostitis; 1 See Appendix II.