244 CASES SIMULATING STRANGULATED HERNIA. hernial sac may present symptoms indistinguishable from those of strangulated intestine.1 J• M—, sot. go, had had a small femoral hernia on the left side as long as she could remember; the rupture had always been easily reducible, and she had never worn a truss. Four days before her admission the hernial tumour became painful, and she had symptoms of incarceration of moderate severity. Herniotomy was performed, and the hernial sac, on being laid open, was found to contain nothing but a tablespoonful of thin pus (hernia purulenta). Caspar G—, art. 32, had suffered for along time from a reducible inguinal hernia of the left side. For many years he had suffei-ed from constitutional syphilis, and two years previously had some ulceration of the rectum, which led to the formation of fistula. Fifteen days before his admission he was attacked with violent pain in the abdomen, which rapidly ran on to peri- tonitis and was attended by severe vomiting. The hernia was perfectly movable ; the lower part of the abdomen was especially painful, and it was from this part that the pain originated. As the vomiting and all the other symptoms increased, I thought that I had better attempt to discover, as there seemed hut little hope otherwise, whether there might be some strangula- tion in the intestine at the internal abdominal ring, or in its neighbourhood. I therefore performed herniotomy, and gradually extended the incision upwards through the abdominal wall, hut could feel nothing on exploration with my finger. A large quantity of peritoneal effusion escaped. Death occurred the day after the operation, the fourth after the commencement of the peritonitis. Post mortem: an ulcer the size of a thaler was found on the ileo-colic valve, close to which was a perforation ; it was at this point that the peritonitis had originated. Professor Griesinger pronounced the lesion to he a slowly progressing typhus ulcer. Subsequent inquiries proved that a few weeks before his admission he had suffered for some time from weakness and diarrhoea, accompanied by slight malaise. Probably this was a case of typhus ambulans levissimus. It is conceivable, however, that it may have been a very rare instance of a syphilitic ulcer in the caecum. Some nodules of fatty, degenerated, and dry broken-down tissue were found in the spleen, which may possibly also have been of the nature of syphilomata. Jacob W—, set. 30, had suffered for fifteen years from an inguinal hernia, on account of which he had always worn a. truss. About five months before admission he had broken his truss, and since that time it had kept the hernia 1 It seems as if all the symptoms of strangulation as we commonly know them, may occur when any of the abdominal contents pass into the hernial sac, i.e. all these symptoms, vomiting, constipation, abdominal pain, etc., arise when the lesion affects any part supplied by the abdominal sympathetic nerves. [Ed.]