138 CANCER OE THYROID AND TRACHEA REMOVAL. I hoped, however, to improve matters still more. During all this time (two months) all kinds of local and internal remedies had been employed which are supposed to be beneficial in blennorrlioea of the mucous membrane, such as inhalations, topical application of astringent solutions, the internal adminis- tration of copaiba, balsam of Peru, tannin, etc. No appreciable benefit, beyond, perhaps, a slight diminution in the] secretion of pus, took place. Every time that attempts were made to shorten the tube, or to discontinue its use for a time, such formidable dyspncea occurred that the long tracheal tube had again to be introduced at once; we gave up all idea of being able eventually to remove the tube entirely. Wishing, however, to enable the patient at least to speak, we introduced a tube with an opening at the bend, through which we supposed that the air would readily pass when the anterior opening of the tube was closed. To our surprise this was not found to be the case; the lower part of the larynx had, after the tracheotomy, become so much narrowed and filled up with prominent granulations that it was no longer permeable to the air; notwithstanding all our efforts we were unable to dilate tins part of the larynx ; ultimately the patient became wearied with the attempts and left the hospital wearing the tube, through which she could breathe well enough. By closing the opening for a moment or two with her finger, she was able to speak a few words intelligibly in a hoarse voice. I was unable to learn anything further about the case. Extensive ulcerated carcinoma of the right half of the thyroid and trachea. A Russian merchant, set. 53, had suffered for three years from laryngeal catarrh, with constant hoarseness and dyspncea. At an early stage of the disease paralysis of the vocal cord was found, probably from the trrmour, which was deeply situated, pressing upon the right recurrent nerve. Laryngotonry had been performed, and a canula left in, through which the patient was able to breathe very well. The patient asserted that he noticed the development of a tumour in the right side of his neck a few weeks after the laryngotonry. For a time his condition remained tolerable, although the tumour increased to the size of a fist. Shortly before I saw him the dyspncea again recurred, as the tumour had pushed to the left side and narrowed the trachea close to its entrance into the thorax, and the canula could not be kept in situ. The case seemed to me to be hopeless, and I could only advise morphia injections to relieve the pain and dyspncea. Apart from the local trouble, the patient was in good condition, and begged that something might be done to give relief; he was willing to face any risk. The first idea which occurred to me, of introducing a long thin canula into the laryngotonry wound so as to pass it below the impediment, was not found practicable. The tube at once caused severe cough and haemorrhage from the trachea, and the patient soon refused any further treatment of that sort. By the introduction of the tube, however, I had made out that the tumour went further down into the trachea. The patient insisted that there must be some means or other of giving him relief, for he felt himself otherwise in such good health. I have seldom met any one