233 ENCYSTED PERITONEAL EFFUSION. refracting, minute lobules, which were seen also floating about singly; these were evidently the remnants of completely shrunken coloured blood-cells. The fluid was faintly alkaline, and on boiling was converted into a white flocculent mass. The fluid was so markedly unlike that of a hydatid, and it was so entirely different to any that I had previously met with, that to my mind, the accuracy of our diagnosis seemed already to be a matter of doubt. A further analysis at the chemico-pathological department of the hospital yielded little more than negative results. The fluid proved to be rich in albumin, and contained a consider- able quantity of sugar, a little urea, and a trace of succinic acid and indican. In order to make the result of our puncture agree with the diagnosis of a hydatid of the liver it was necessary to suppose that the animal had died, and that a secondary effusion had there- upon taken place into the cyst. Trom the nature of the fluid we might indeed have concluded that it was some exceptionally thick, dropsical effusion, but there was no ascites. The manner in which the growth had originated, pointed to a tumour distinctly localised in the liver at the outset, or at any rate to some well- defined growth. Could it be a circumscribed peritoneal effusion, without a trace of pus, and where not the slightest symptom of peritonitis had ever existed ? Could it be due to tubercular peri- tonitis ? Such suppositions seemed in the highest degree improbable in the case of a cavalry officer whose previous health had always been good. On percussing the abdomen three days later, a further puzzle presented itself. All the intestines had, speaking generally, returned to their normal positions. In the left hypochondrium, however, was an area of dulness, the extent of the hand; close above the trochar, which was still in situ, and just where the liver must have been situated, was a small space, where the percussion note was markedly resonant. I forbear from recording all the conjectural diagnoses and the views that were expressed. I need only say that eventually we adopted our first opinion that the case was one of hydatid with, however, the above-mentioned modifica- tion. Accordingly, the treatment was carried further; our idea was, to leave the canula in situ for about a week; we supposed that by that time the sac ol the hydatid would become united to the abdominal wall; an india-rubber tube was then to be passed through the canula, and after the latter had been removed, was to be fastened on