170 IODINE INJECTIONS IN BRONCHOCELES. was moderately enlarged. Eapid recovery followed the opening of the abscess. Bronchocele during 'pregnancy. A woman, mt. 33, was admitted to the lying-in ward with a large, diffuse, bilateral bronchocele. As her dyspnoea was excessive, premature labour was induced at the seventh month of pregnancy. After delivery, the dyspnoea constantly increased and the patient was transferred to the surgical ward almost in a state of asphyxia. She recovered in some measure after tracheotomy. Pneumonia of the right side followed and carried her off. Post mortem, only hyperplastic enlargement of both lateral lobes of the thyroid was found. An almost exactly analogous case also terminated fatally after tracheotomy. Tumours op the Thyroid. Parenchymatous injections of tincture of iodine} The following observations are founded on the cases which came under my care between i860 and 1876. I have never employed parenchymatous injections of iodine in undoubted cases of cystic bronchocele, although my colleague. Stork, has seen cystic bronchoceles shrink up after repeated injections of small quantities of this drug. In old, partially calcified bron- choceles, which are usually permeated by very large blood-vessels, I have likewise abstained from the use of iodine. In doubted carcinoma the remedy is always* useless. I always use the pure iodine tincture of our Pharmacopoeia for injection. As regards the risk, I think it less dangerous to inject the pure alcoholic solution of iodine, than mixtures of water and tincture of iodine. If the alcohol be much diluted, swelling of the tissue, and subsequent decomposition, may be brought about; the pure alcoholic solution of iodine, produces immediate coagulation and contraction of the tissues with which it comes into contact. On the first occasion I inject about half an ordinary subcutaneous morphia syringe-full. The syringe should be filled with the tincture of iodine before the point is screwed on, the piston pressed down so as to exclude all air, and the point must then be plunged deeply into the bronchocele, 1 See also above, p. 139.