SPONTANEOUS GANGRENE. 408 the knee. The line of demarcation extended lower down over the calf than on the anterior surface. Amputation was performed, but the patient died a month after the operation. Taking into account all the symptoms I had diagnosed endo- myo-pericarditis, with embolism of the left popliteal and the right subclavian arteries. From the report of the post-mortem examination I cull the following :— “ In the lower lobe of the left lung an infarct, the size of a chestnut, from which a him clot extended into a large branch of the pulmonary artery; a similar thrombus of the right lower lobe. Hepatisation around the infarcts. The heart presented the results of acute disease and was covered by a reddish fibrinous layer, with here and there some recent connective tissue. The left ventricle was enlarged, and the walls of the septum covered everywhere by irregular thickenings, between which the muscular substance presented a singular appearance. In the trabecular tissue were numerous globular vege- tation growths, varying in size from a pea to an almond, some tough, others soft, and of greyish-red colour. The whole length of the right subclavian artery was completely plugged by a thrombus, and the perivascular tissue thickened ; the right subclavian and innominate veins were blocked by firm thrombi. It is possible that the emboli in the arteries of the lungs started from the vegetations of the right side of the heart, but it is just as probable that they came from the thrombi in the subclavian or femoral veins. The femoral artery was obliterated by a tough, fibroid clot extending from Poupart’s liga- ment to the amputated surface. The femoral vein was obliterated to some extent.” Embolism of the subclavian artery is not of common occurrence in such cases. I have recorded above (p. 366) a case of embolism of the brachial artery. A case of senile gangrene in an intemperate old man aged sixty was of some interest, inasmuch as the fingers were allected. Six months before admission he had suffered from onychia of the right great toe, accompanied by slight sloughing of the skin ; the gangrene of the fingers had commenced with onychia of the left index finger six weeks before admission. A fortnight previously the samo process began in the right index finger; nothing abnormal could be detected in the arteries, nor was there any symptom of ergotism. He died two days after admission. The post mortem showed evidence of chronic embolism ; the arteries of the. upper extremity were not abnormal as far as they were examined, but unfor- tunately the vessels were not investigated minutely up to the fingers. “ Spontaneous gangrene,” or, as the older surgeons used;-