220 VISCERAL AFFECTIONS IN MAMMARY CANCER. heart were each affected in one instance. In fifteen cases, nodules were found in the liver; twice in the vertebral column, twice in the brain, and twice in the upper part of the humerus.1 The frequent association of cancer of the liver with a similar affection of the breast is striking. My idea is, that the cancerous material is directly transported through the lymphatic vessels of the mediastinum, dia- phragm, and suspensory ligament of the liver. If this be so, we should expect to find cancer of the liver occurring more often when the right breast is affected. In a series of fifteen cases the right breast was affected in nine, and the left in six instances; the number of cases, however, is too small to enable me to speak positively on the point. Further, the lymphatic vessels surrounding the inferior vena cava, aorta, and oesophagus, where these pass through the dia- phragm, may convey lymph containing cancerous elements to the liver. Or are we to look upon these growths in the liver as an expression of multiple cancer formation? Here is a field for much inquiry. At Vienna my experience of the disease was much extended, and the following remarks relate to my practice there. Of 238 cases of this disease, the affection began at the following ages:—.From 26 to 30, twelve cases; 31 to 40, forty-three; 41 to 50, ninety-three; 51 to 60, fifty-eight; 61 to 70, thirty; 71 to 77, two. Total 238. I may note, in connection with the above table, that in the rather numerous cases, where the cancer developed on nodules remaining in young women after confinement, the commencement of the disease is dated from the period when these indolent nodules began to be painful and increase. In 236 cases it is recorded whether the patients were married, unmarried, or widows; the latter, whose number is small, I have included under the married, while some unmarried patients, who had 1 In the ‘ Lancet ’ for June 12, 1880, p. 912, Mr. Snow has called attention to a thickening and tenderness of the upper part of the humerus, on the same side as the diseased gland, which, he states, is frequently seen in scir- rhus of the breast. Mr. Snow ascribes the condition of the bone to a low form of periostitis; and has found the medulla affected in such cases. Sinoe reading Mr. Snow’s paper I have, among perhaps a dozen cases, observed the symptom twice. [Ed.]