PAPILLARY CANCER OP TRACHEA REMOVAL. inspiration, be seen between the masses, through which air can pass.” In Nov. 1874, total removal of the larynx was performed. The bronchocele was easily shelled out and removed. Tracheotomy had not been previously per- formed and the trachea sank down rather deeply. The haemorrhage was very slight. Although the wound did well and there was but little febrile reaction, yet the patient’s dyspnoea increased, as he was unable to raise the sputa, and he died four days after the operation. Examination of the larynx after removal showed an extensively diffused cancerous growth spreading over the larynx, which had partially invaded the cartilages. Extensive broncho-pneumonia was found post mortem. If I had to deal with another case of this nature, I should cer- tainly commence by performing tracheotomy, then try by all means to improve the bronchitis before extirpating the larynx. In the above case there can be no question that, owing to the defective power of expiration after the removal of the larynx, the bronchitis ran on to broncho-pneumonia.1 Papillary cancer (?) of the trachea.—The following case is of special interest and importance, not only, from its rarity, but also from the difficulty of diagnosis and the repeated operations per- formed for its relief. Hen- M. E—, ast. 42, came to me in September, 1876. He stated thatsince October, 1875, he had at times difficulty of breathing during exertion. In February, 1876, these troubles increased, and be had attacks almost of suffo- cation, together with some liajmoptysis. The patient was a short sturdy man of healthy appearance. Respiration was accompanied with a noise audible at some distance. He was quite unable to walk upstairs, owing to his shortness of breath ; occasionally he had terrible distress from a feeling of impending suffocation. With the laryngoscope, deep down in the trachea, close above the bifurcation, a reddish floating growth was seen connected to the right wall of the trachea, and leaving only a small fissure free for respiration. After consultation with Professor Stork, I performed the following operation : —The anterior wall of the trachea, from the cricoid cartilage down to a little below the edge of the sternum, was exposed, the isthmus of the thyroid divided, and the vessels immediately ligatured. The entire trachea was then laid open longitudinally, and the edges held apart by sharp hooks. It is always necessary in the trachea, as in the larynx, to lay open the tube freely. If the manipulation of instruments is to be conducted with certainty, or a small mirror introduced so as to obtain a view of the deeper parts, the whole region should be thoroughly exposed before the trachea is cut into. 1 Another case of complete removal of the larynx is described by Hr. Gussenbauer in the ‘Arch f. kl. Chir.,’ Bd. xvii, p. 343.