STRICTURE OF URETHRA. URETHRAL EEVER. 267 urinary infiltration of the perinaeum. The uretha had been lacerated at the time of injury by a splinter of bone. External urethrotomy was performed, and a pointed fragment of hone found loose in the abscess cavity. Death followed four days after the operation. Further details of the case will he found in the ‘ Arch, fur Klin. Chir.,’ Bd. i, p. 447. Stricture or the Urethra. As long as a single drop of urine can find its way down the urethra to the meatus, the expression “ impermeable stricture ” is only relative, and signifies merely that the surgeon is not able to pass an instrument. The more skill and practice the surgeon has in passing bougies, the more rarely will he meet with impassable strictures. As a result it follows that urethrotomy will be less often required, unless the sensitiveness of the stricture, or the irritability of the urethra indicate this operation. Eigors after the passage of instruments I have often seen; I have met with them occasionally in persons with normal urethrae, who required the water to be drawn off for paralysis of the bladder resulting from fractured spine. These rigors usually occur from an hour and a half up to three hours after the passage of the instru- ment. In most of these cases it will be found that some, though possibly a very slight injury has been inflicted on the mucous mem- brane of the urethra. The evidence of such lesion may consist in a little blood on the instrument, or a few blood clots in the urine; still this is not always the case : A man, set. 46, had a stricture, which just admitted the finest instrument. After the first two occasions on which it was passed, rigors followed, although no drop of blood escaped. Ou the third occasion a metallic instrument was passed; this was followed by a severe uraemic attack which ended in a copious eruption of herpes in the lip.1 External urethrotomy was performed, and the patient soon recovered. Sometimes the patients allow the instruments to remain much longer in the urethra than they were ordered to. I generally leave the instruments in for five minutes. No- doubt this irritability of 1 Cf. Vemeuil on “ Herpes as a Complication of Cutting Wounds,”1 Lancet/ 1878, vol. ii, p. 873. [Ed.]