ALKALINE URINE. LITHOTEITY. 275 which are most effective against ammoniacal fermentation of the urine. I must add here, that the object in view is very difficult to obtain in many cases of calculus, and is not always possible when the surface of the stone is porous and rough, for the reason above given. Perhaps the best method consists in constantly washing out the bladder with faintly acid solutions. But the pain of this treatment is often more than the patients will stand. There is another condition which would render it impossible to keep the urine acid. It may be that the area where the fermen- tation is set up and the bacteria are generated, is situated in the substance of the kidney. The urine will then be alkaline almost as soon as it is secreted. Sometimes, too, the mucous membrane if much diseased will not stand a great amount of acid, yet before any operation is undertaken, the urine not only ought to be acid, but ought to remain so for at least twenty-four hours at the ordinary temperature of a room. If it becomes rapidly alkaline as it passes from the bladder into the tissues, nothing will be gained. As I have already said, it is not always possible to succeed even after weeks of treatment, and I have often had to be satisfied if I could get the urine neutral or faintly acid for a short time. As to the contra-indications for lithotrity, I can only agree with English authors. Lately, I have preferred to administer an anaes- thetic when the patients are sensitive, and extend the sittings to twenty or twenty-five minutes. In many patients the bladder is so little sensitive that no anaesthetic is required. If the urine escapes during the operation I inject warm water into the bladder, other- wise, as a rule, I do not. When possible I cause the patient to avoid passing the urine for two hours before each sitting; the bladder will then be found sufficiently full to admit of operation. The interval between the sittings should not be more than three or four days. If sharp cystitis occurs, the interval between the sittings must be made shorter; the operation then requires to be performed with especial tenderness. The increase of the cystitis is nearly always the result of the irritation set up by pointed fragments of stone. I continue the internal administration of the acid up to the end of the cure. I know only of one patient among my cases of lithotrity in whom the disease recurred. Unfortunately, we shall not be justified in the hope that severe cysto-pyelitis due to calculus, will disappear quickly after the