311 VOMITING AFTER OPERATION; DIARRHCEA. ance as regards prognosis; if it stops on the second day, or begins as it so often does after the first thirty-six hours, it is then always a sign of peritonitis. The explanation of vomiting in peritonitis is not very clear; my idea is, that it may in great measure be accounted for on mechanical grounds, and is especially caused by the intestines becoming fixed in an unnatural position through firm, fibrinous adhesions. Prolapse of the intestines, and much moving and pressing back of the same during the operation is very undesirable, for the intestines are thus brought into positions which hinder the peristaltic action. The formation of fibrine takes place so rapidly that in a long operation, the process can almost be seen; at any rate, the increasing adhesiveness of the intestinal surface is very noticeable. If a loop of intestine is too much handled or twisted about, it may readily become fixed, in a position unfavour- able to the passage of its gaseous contents. At times, too, effusions collect in the true pelvis and press on the rectum, or coils of intestine may become so adherent to the pelvis, that the peristaltic action becomes reversed. When colicky pains persist for weeks after the operation, they generally depend upon such abnormal fixation of some part of the intestines. By introducing a short tube into the rectum flatus will often escape, with great relief to the patient; large quantities of flatus too may be got rid of with the vomit. In troublesome vomiting I have often employed repeated small subcutaneous injections of morphia with great benefit. It may be taken as a good sign, when the vomiting is in this way checked for a few hours, but a bad symptom when it is of no avail. If there be no distension it is perfectly unnecessary to administer enemata. I have often seen everything go on perfectly well, although the bowels did not act till the second week after the operation. Diarrhoea sometimes, though rarely, occurs in septic peritonitis. If the distension be very distressing, I generally give an enema con- taining sixty grammes of infus. sennse comp, with an equal bulk of warm water, and repeat it, if in two hours it has produced no effect. If the enema acts, the patient will be greatly relieved; if no effect is produced it is a very bad sign. If all has gone on well up to the third or fourth day, but then steadily increasing distension begins accompanied by stercoraceous vomiting, it is sure to be due to incarceration, generally the result of volvulus. In such cases, I have twice performed enterotomy, and opened an immensely dis- tended, small intestine. One was a case of ovariotomy, the other