CANCER OF PYLORUS. ENCYSTED PERITONITIS. 231 I supposed that it was a case of abscess of the abdominal walls, and as fluctuation was distinct at the upper part, I attempted to confirm my diagnosis by making an incision. About a couple of ounces of broken down substance, mixed with pus and blood, escaped. The abscess refused to close. Instead of pus, a thin, ill-smelling secretion escaped, and the infiltration of the surrounding parts increased. The patient lost appetite, and wasted. I then rather inclined to the view that it was a case of central softening sarcoma of the abdominal walls. On examining microscopically some of the granulations, I found undoubted elements of alveolar cancer (Driisen Carcinoma). I now thought that the case must be one of gastric cancer which bad broken through the abdominal wall. But this view was given up, inasmuch as no food ever came out through the opening. During the whole course of the disease she never had any vomiting. Death took place finally from exhaustion, no fresh symptoms having occurred to assist the diagnosis. Post mortem: we found a medullary villous carcinoma of the pylorus, which had made its way externally. A probe could be passed from without into the stomach, yet none of the contents of the stomach had ever escaped. 'Encysted peritoneal effusion. Graf von M—, a stout, well-nourished man, set. 32, consulted me and some of my colleagues in April, 1870. Unfortunately, I have no minute record of the history of the case, beyond the fact that the patient had been perfectly well up to three months previously, and that the first symptom of the disease was some fulness of the upper part of the abdomen. On examination, a fluctuating tumour rather larger than a child’s head was found, intimately connected to the right lobe of the liver. Two of my colleagues were of opinion that the case was one of hydatid tumour, a view which seemed to be confirmed by the pain- less, though constant growth of the swelling. The circumference of the liver, however, appeared to have increased with remarkable rapidity for a hydatid. The distension of the abdomen, when we saw him, was so great that the patient’s breathing and sleep were much interfered with. The functions of the bowels, too, were impaired; the patient was emaciated, and lost strength from day to day, so that he was no longer able to stand. He urgently requested that some decided treatment might be adopted, as, in the condition that he was, he felt that he could not last long. At a consultation with iny colleagues, von Dumreicher and von Pitlia, we decided unani- mously that the case was undoubtedly one of hydatid tumour of the liver. We agreed, also, that the patient must shortly die, unless some