340 PARALYSIS AFTER CONTUSION. patches of skin only were gangrenous. Some stiffness of both hands per- sisted for a long time, but eventually disappeared. In tliis instance, the effect of the cold gradually diminished from the little finger to the thumb, so that the index finger was least affected, while the thumb had entirely escaped. In other cases it was found that much the same parts were affected, i. e. the third, fourth, and little fingers were most com- monly involved, the index finger less frequently, while the thumb was most rarely affected. In one case, however, where all the fingers were completely gangrenous, one half of the thumb was in the same state. In the foot, too, the great toe seems less subject to frost-bite than any others. When the gangrene extends over the hand from the fingers, it usually extends further on the dorsal than on the palmar aspect. Paralysis and atrophy of the arm, following injury. Peter P—, set. 47, was admitted in 1876. Five months previously he had received a blow on the left shoulder from a falling branch. The blow knocked him down, and occasioned severe pain. A medical man who was called in could find no fracture or dislocation, but only a contusion. The nervous symptoms did not appear to have altered from the first; the muscles of the left shoulder and arm were markedly atrophied; the flexors of the left hand were contracted. All movement was completely lost in the left hand; sensation, though very much impaired, was not totally absent. The pain which he had at first experienced had ceased when I saw him. Faradisation caused very feeble contraction of a few of the muscles, but no improvement followed the persevering use of this treatment, and the atrophy of the arm steadily progressed.1 Paralysis of the musculo-spiral nerve after contusion. J. A—, ret. 31, a railway guard, had his upper arm severely contused as his train was entering a tunnel. Swelling of the limb soon followed. When he was brought to the hospital shortly after the accident, the musculo- spiral nerve was found to be paralysed. Extensive inflammation of the arm followed, but disappeared without auy suppuration. The extensors of the 1 An interesting case of progressive paralysis after injury of the shoulder is recorded by Dr. F. Steiner, in the ‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1873, p. 592, where will also be found a collection of other cases of the same nature.