212 DOUBLE SARCOMA DURING PREGNANCY. bourhood of the cicatrix, and was again removed by Schuli, a year after the first operation, when it was the size of a hen’s egg. According to the patient’s account, both the tumours were called cysto-sarcoma. The growth again recurred in the cicatrix, and was removed two years later by Weinlechner ; the wound again healed up, as is usually the case with cysto-sarcoma. In a year and eight months recurrence again took place in the cicatrix, and at the same time a tumour appeared in the right breast, which felt more nodulated and harder than that in the left. Both were painful and tender on pressure. I found a tumour the size of an apple in each breast; on the right side, a typical infiltrated alveolar carcinoma, with infiltration of the axillary glands ; on the left side a typical cysto-sarcoma, without any enlargement of the axillary glands. I removed the whole of the right breast, together with the axillary glands, and extirpated the tumour on the left side (the fourth operation on the cysto-sarcoma). Examination of the growths proved the absolute accuracy of the diagnosis. She recovered very quickly, and was discharged thirteen days after the operation. We heard subsequently that she died rather suddenly after one day’s illness; unfortunately, no post mortem was permitted, and the circumstances of her death were not detailed. Sarcoma developing in both mammary glands during pregnancy. Frau L—, came to me in May, 1869. She was then thirty-one years of age. She had had two children and became pregnant for the third time in November, 1868. In January, 1869, she noticed a swelling in the left breast, which was rather hard. From time to time slight serous discharge escaped from the nipple. She suffered no pain. She did not trouble about her condition, until the enlargement of the breast became considerable, and she felt herself weak and began to lose flesh, yet her general condition was not materially affected, and there was no disease of any internal organs. In May, 1869, she consulted several surgeons in Vienna about her case. Different opinions were given—some counselled immediate amputation of the breast, while others were opposed to this. When she consulted me I found the left breast the size of a man's head, firm, and elastic; the skin over it was cedematous, the tumour freely movable on the thorax, and the axillary glands not enlarged. In the right breast also indurated nodules could be felt. The patient was of slight build and emaciated. I was against operation, as I did not think it probable that the patient would recover from the amputation of both breasts. Professor Carl v. Braun, whom we consulted, was of opinion that the induction of premature labour might perhaps be of benefit, for he thought that, as assuredly the tumour had developed during pregnancy, it might be the result of