CENTRAL PULSATING SARCOMA. EPITHELIOMA. 451 No secondary growth was found at tho post-mortem examination. The apices of both lungs were full of tubercle. Tho tumour proved to be an enormously vascular alveolar sarcoma, studded with numerous extravasations. Central sarcoma of the femur. Removal. Katharina F—•, set. 17, came under my care in January, 1870. In February, 1869, she had a fall while dancing, followed by some swelling about the left knee, and had never since been able to walk without crutches ; the knees were flexed at an angle of 104°, and admitted of very slight active and passive movement. About four fingers’ breadth over the patella and extending down to the joint the thigh was enlarged, its diameter being about 3 centimetres greater than that of the opposite side. On the inner side “parchment crackling” could he felt; in this situation, too, slight pulsation was perceptible, and a bruit resembling the placental murmur could be heard. The tibial pulse was unaltered. The patient absolutely declined amputation; accordingly I excised the diseased portion of the bone, sawing off about six inches. The medullary cavity was found full of sarcoma. The patient, who was greatly reduced at the time of operation, was much exhausted by the subsequent suppuration, diarrhoea, and bed-sores, and died ultimately of pymmia two months after the operation. Osteomyelitis of the femur was found post mortem with necrosis of the greater part of the shaft. The iliac veins contained purulent thrombi; the sarcoma was richly studded with myeloplaxes. Rpitlielioma of the leg. Joseph B—, set. 41. Sixteen years before admission, as the result of a blow, a portion of the integument over the shin, the size of a florin, sloughed, and a scale of bone separated at the seat of injury. The wound healed up, but ever since had been covered with a scab. Two years before admission “proud flesh” began to grow from the ulcer, which bled at times, and gave pain. When admitted the case was one of undoubted epithelioma. The inguinal glands were somewhat enlarged, but not more than on the opposite side. Amputation was advised, but the patient declined it; thereupon I extirpated the growth, scraping it off the tibia with a raspatory. A paste, composed of chloride of zinc and starch, in equal parts, was applied, and led to the separation of a large scale of bone. The part then rapidly healed up, cicatrisation being accelerated by skin grafting. Five years and three months after the operation, I heard of my patient; no recurrence had taken place ; he was perfectly well in health. The cicatrix now and again became perhaps excoriated, but always healed up again readily. Aneurism of the femoral artery. Caspar W , ret. 30. Fifteen years previously he had suffered from