218 AFFECTION OF THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS IN CANCER. most commonly attacks people between the ages of fifty and seventy. The development of cancer appears to be on the whole of earlier occurrence in women than in men. The majority of women affected with cancer of the breast died in about three years after the commencement of the disease. If the disease appeared between the ages of thirty and forty, it ran, as a rule, a more rapid course. Of the women between sixty and seventy, who were attacked two were carried off by the disease in less than a year. I have already stated my inability to give any information on the subject of hereditary tendency to the development of tumours. With regard to the course of the disease and duration of life in those who died of cancer of the breast, any statements concerning the rapidity with which the axillary glands became affected would be of great value. But here observation is left altogether in the lurch. As a rule, the patients know nothing about the first com- mencement of the axillary swelling, or give very unreliable infor- mation. Most surgeons, too, deceive themselves on this point. The normal axillary glands are so soft that in general they cannot be felt even in very thin persons. If large glands can be felt, they are already diseased and, indeed, usually very extensively diseased. We often hear sympathetic, irritative glandular swellings spoken of in cases of cancer, by which is meant that the glands though enlarged are not yet cancerous. I grant that inflammatory, non-specific glandular enlargements may occur in cancer, especially in connection with the ulcerated forms. But it would be erroneous to suppose that they can be recognised by the external examination of the patient; more than this, they cannot always be distinguished on microscopical examination. On this point I must refer to what I have said on the subject of cancer of the lip and face. The surgeon should regard any enlarged lymphatic gland in the neighbourhood of a cancer with the utmost suspicion and treat it accordingly. The lymphatic glands generally become affected very rapidly in diseases of the breast, and as early in the hard as in the soft cancers. To this rule, the highly- shrunken, scirrhous tumours of very old women form an excep- tion. Anomalous cases, too, occur, such, for instance, as rapidly ulcerating mammary cancer, unaccompanied by disease of the lymphatics. It is possible that the position of the tumour in the breast influences the rapidity with which the axillary glands become affected; for instance, the growth may be situated close to