TREATMENT OF ANKYLOSIS : FORCIBLE EXTENSION. 433 the repeated request of the parents, and prompted by the very favourable results of some osteotomies which I had a short time previously performed, I divided the bone subcutaneously just below the trochanter, after Langen- beck’s method. The deformity was successfully corrected, though of course the original length of the limb was not completely restored. Extension by weights was employed after the osteotomy. Two weeks after the operation, extensive suppuration set in, all the old cicatrices gave way, suppuration took place about the ankylosed parts, and finally I had to remove the head of the bone and the trochanter, which had become necrosed from suppuration. The patient died of marasmus nine weeks later. Contraction after chronic hip-joint disease, treated by fracturing the necJc of the femur. Emanuel Z—, set. 13. In this case the right lower extremity was flexed at a right angle, and somewhat wasted, and the hip-joint slightly abducted. Under an anaesthetic, by means of forcible extension and abduction, the neck of the femur was fractured with an audible crack. A slight rent was made through the skin, at the fold of the groin. The patient was discharged six weeks later, with a straight limb, and but slight shortening. No mobility in the hip-joint. Franz W—, set. 12. The hip was flexed at an angle of 350 and strongly abducted. The same treatment was adopted, and the limb brought down perfectly straight. Extension was applied, and after ten weeks the patient was able to walk perfectly well. The joint was ankylosed, but he had slight power of abduction. I heard three years later that this patient was able to walk perfectly well and was anxious to many. . Marie L—, set. 30, had coxitis of four year’s standing; an abscess had formed over the trochanter, but had closed up six months previously. The right femur was flexed at an obtuse angle, and strongly abducted. In attempting to correct the abduction under an anaesthetic, the femur was fractured; a plaster bandage was applied and the patient was discharged four months later, with about two inches shortening of the limb. I saw her two years after, and she was then able to walk well with the aid of a stick and a high heel. The hip-joint was ankylosed. In the two following cases I performed osteotomy of the neck of the femur; both patients died. ® 2I> bad been ill for three years, from what appeared to have been general subacute osteomyelitis of the left femur and tibia; the knee and the hip-joint both became fixed in consequence. On admission, the knee- joint was flexed at about an angle of ioo°. The limb was wasted and strongly rotated outwards and the tibia considerably thickened. An attempt was made 28