228 CASES OP ABDOMINAL INJURIES. Post mortem: two very small perforating wounds were found on the larger curvature in the stomach ; peritoneum very hypenemic ; very slight effusion. H. W—, set. 32, a very unintellectual man, was admitted with the following history:—About two years previously he fell on a stake, and received a wound three fingers’ breadth, below the navel. He stated that some fat protruded, which he cut off himself with a pair of scissors. The wound soon healed up. The cicatrix bulged forwards to some extent, but gave him no pain. Four days before admission he fell from a hay loft and struck himself on the abdomen. When he had recovered, he noticed some blood on his trousers. The cicatrix had been ruptured, and the omentum protruded. When I saw him the protrusion was granulating, he was quite free from fever, and there was no trace of peritonitis. The protrusion was covered with an oiled pad of lint; gradually it shrank up, and was retracted into the abdomen in thirty days after the injury. This last case speaks strongly against the reposition of prolapsed omentum, while the case mentioned above shows the bad result following dilation of the wound and reduction of omental protrusion. Subcutaneous interstitial rupture of an abdominal muscle. A strong young man, set. 22, in attempting to save himself from falling baokwards as he sprang from a cart, felt intense pain in the abdominal wall. The pain persisted for some days with such severity that the patient was unable to draw himself upright. In the course of a week it gradually disappeared. In the following case I diagnosed an inj ury of the stomach; complete recovery followed. J. B—, a labourer, set. 38, was at work in a narrow trench about twelve feet deep, the side of which fell in. The patient, who was found in a stooping position, was promptly dug out, and brought up in an unconscious condition to the hospital. When admitted, he was collapsed, cold, and pulseless, with extensive superficial excoriations over many parts of the body, and subcu- taneous extravasations on the back and the left upper arm; the abdomen was a little distended, and rather painful. Consciousness shortly returned. Towards evening the patient vomited several times blood and remnants of food; this repeatedly occurred on the next day also. The vomit always contained recent blood. The region of the stomach was painful on pressure. Great distension for the first two days ; the hsematemesis then diminished, finally coasing on the third day ; the pain disappeared at the same time and the distension gradually subsided entirely. The following case of head injury may be here mentioned,