CHAPTER IV. TRAUMATIC ERYSIPELAS.1 During the whole course of a tolerably long hospital experience, I never met with so little erysipelas as in Vienna, during the year 1868 (ri per cent, of the castes admitted), while in the years 1869-70, the number rose to 6 per cent. There was no great difference between the annual number of the patients undbrjtreat- ment, so there remains this remarkable fact, that the number of erysipelas cases was six times greater in one year than it had been in the previous twelve months, and this without the deterioration of any of the sanitary conditions of the hospital; nay, the rise coincided with the most extensive use of carbolic acid, and the systematic isolation of cases in separate wards. Such an experience is discouraging, but it would be wrong in the highest degree to infer that we need despair of banishing this formidable foe from our surgical wards. We must study all the more incessantly to learn the nature and method of its action, and must hunt it out from every possible hiding-place. We know that true (wandering) erysipelas sometimes starts from quite recent wounds, sometimes from those which have existed for a long time ; I have tried to distinguish between these two kinds by designating the former “ septic” erysipelas, and the latter erysipelas “ originating from infection from without.” My idea is, that in the former class of cases, the cause of the erysipelas must be attributed to the decomposition of retained blood or secretion from the wound; whereas, in the second class, the infection comes from without. This view as to the double nature of the etiology of erysipelas appears to me to be adopted by most surgeons, though with numerous modifications. It corresponds also with the opinions 1 In connexion with this Chapter, Prof. Billroth’s remarks on the subject in his ‘ Surg. Path.’ (Ilackley’s Transl.) may be studied witli advantage. His views are there clearly and briefly expressed. See also the author’s writings in the ‘ Arch, filr Kl. Chirurg.,’ Bd. iv and Bd. ix.—(Ed.)