222 OPERATIVE TREATMENT. in the vertebral column, while on the subject of diseases of that region. Operations on the Breast and Diseased Axillary Glands.1 Of 118 operations on the breast alone, eight were fatal; the cause of death in all instances was erysipelas. Of 187 operations on the breast and the axillary glands, or (where recurrence took place) on the latter alone, forty patients died from various causes; three deaths occurred from severe secondary haemorrhage, but many of the other cases, who were attacked with septicaemia, pyaemia, or erysipelas had also haemorrhage from the axillae. As regards this haemorrhage, I may remark here, that I inherited from my teachers a great dread of ligaturing veins, especially large venous trunks. Formerly, therefore, whenever it was possible, I used to control the venous haemorrhage with tampons, while in the worst cases I tied the branches close to the trunk, or else secured the wall of the vein and so partially tied the vessel. For a year I gave up this practice, and was in the habit of washing out the wounds with solution of chloride of zinc and concentrated solutions of carbolic acid in oil. Now, however, we know that all this is injurious, and that it is far less dangerous to place a double ligature on the axillary vein, and then divide the vessel between the ligatures. This plan is rarely followed by any oedema of the arm, a result which formerly was of very common occurrence. During the last few years, therefore, we have found much less risk in treating these cases. I cannot ignore the fact, that by our more modern methods of operating, where the skin is preserved as far as possible, so as to induce the wounds to unite quickly by first intention, recurrence seems to me to take place far more rapidly. Formerly, I used to remove all the skin of the breast in my cases. It is true the wound often took two or three months to heal, but the subsequent results—as far as recurrence is concerned—were far more favourable. In five cases I operated with chloride of zinc paste, or caustic arrowheads; one of these patients died of erysipelas. In five instances, also, I removed the entire mamma together with the tumour by means of the galvano-caustic loop. The immediate results of the operation are apt to mislead. No inflammation of the pleura ever followed the operation, but the 1 ‘ Wiener Bericlit,’ 1876.