107 CANCER OF THE FACE AND LIPS. destroyed the whole of the upper jaw or the bones of the skull, without infiltrating the lymphatic glands. That such a form of cancer ever began in the mouth was to me a new fact. All the cases observed at Zurich were—with one exception— superficial ulcerated epithelial cancer. With regard to recurrence in these cases, I should mention that this mostly occurred after removal of portions of the skin overlying bone. I could not always persuade myself to entirely remove a bone to all appearance per- fectly healthy, or even to remove much of it. In some cases, as, for instance, when the frontal or ethmoid bone were affected, this was not possible. What I have learnt from these cases, however, would induce me to cut more boldly hereafter than I have in the past. According to my experience, it may be laid down almost as a principle that, when a patient who has been operated on for cancer of the face or lip has no recurrence either continuous or infective in the lymphatic glands from six to eight months later, there is the greatest probability that, at the least for many years, often for the rest of his life, he will have been cured by operation. Local recurrences coming on after the lapse of some years, com- paratively frequent in the case of sarcomata, are very rare in cancer of the face. It becomes still more urgently important, therefore, to operate as early as possible and to operate freely. From a list of 252 cases it was shown that the lips were more frequently attacked with cancer than any other part of the skin of the face. The lower lip and the angle of the mouth are especially liable to this disease. Primary cancerous diseases of the upper lip are exceedingly rare. The great preponderance of the male sex is shown markedly by the list of patients (196 male, 56 female), and the same difference between the relative frequency with which the sexes are attacked shows itself also, though to a less extent, in cancer of the upper parts of the face. Operations for cancer of the skin of the eyelids, and also of that of the face generally, show a much larger mortality than when the lip or the skin of the nose was affected. I am unable quite to account for this. In all these groups of operations, some part or other of the bones was at times laid bare or resected, but not more in one group than in another. In some of these cases plastic operations were performed subsequently, but this will not account for the difference of the mortality, which was twice as great in the two groups of cases first mentioned.