44 PE BIO STEAL SABCOMA OE THE HEAD. was neither an encephalocele nor meningocele. The right ulna was unnaturally short, so that the hand of that side was strongly adducted. No other deformity ■was noticeable. As soon as the child had become a little accustomed to resi- dence in hospital, and took its food well, I punctured the cyst and drew off 'five ouuces of clear, light-coloured fluid. Pro!. "VV islicenus, ol Zurich, who examined the fluid, reported its composi- tion to be, briefly as follows : Serum albumin Myosin and fibrin-forming ingredients Paralbumin . Mucin Urea Sugar 4/29 per cent. Very small quantities. A trace. o. The slightest trace. Doubtful. Sulphuric, phosphoric, and muriatic acids, I . o t 11 • 1 ( A UliDIG. Sodium chloride . . j This analysis showed that the cyst did not contain cerebro-spinal fluid, which has remarkably little albumin. No opening could be found iu the bone after the puncture. The sac began to fill again slowly, but diarrhoea came on the day after operation. This was followed by pneumonia, and the child died, a week after the puncture. Post-mortem : the cyst was found to consist of a thin-walled sac with a very smooth lining. It lay iu the cellular tissue beneath the scalp, and was easily removable from the bone. No opening in the skull, or defect where some previously existing communication might have been shut off, could be found. The following interesting case of periosteal fibro-sarcoma of the back of head, occurred in private practice. H—, a merchant, set. 40, of moderately strong build, first noticed, when he was twenty years of age, a hard lump in the occipital regiou. Its growth was very gradual and painless. The tumour was removed when it had attained the size of a walnut. Ten years after, some thickening appeared about the cicatrix of the operation wound. Por a time it remained stationary, then after a few years began again to grow slowly and without pain. It was removed a second time, fifteen years after the first operation. Shortly after the wound had healed some fresh nodules appeared in the cicatrix. These grew rather more rapidly than before, and were not movable on the bone. Eighteen years after the first operation, a growth the size of a florin was removed, and the exposed bone cauterised; superficial exfoliation followed. Two years after this I first saw the patient. The growth had recurred locally, very shortly after the last operation wound had healed. I found all the back of the head, down to the muscles of the neck, covered with hard, painless nodules, varying in size from a bean to a cherry. Some were isolated, some had coalesced. I diagnosed periosteal fibroma with implication of the cervical lymphatic glands. The disease was so extensive that I consented rather reluctantly to operate. On the 6th December, 1861, I removed the whole of the diseased parts, including all the occipital scalp, very freely, and scraped away the periosteum with the raspatory. The patient did remarkably well