404 GANGRENE PROM ARTERIAL DISEASE : FROM ANJSMIA. much could be learned from her history. When admitted gangrene was commencing in her left leg. She improved and recovered her strength, but we could form no positive diagnosis. The arteries were rigid. The gangrene, which was perfectly dry, was limited by a line of demarcation formed just below the knee, from which a tongue of skin extended downwards. At the proper time I sawed through the bones below the line of demarcation and turned up a flap of skin to cover the wound. The wound slowly healed, but was not soundly united for eight months. Six years later I heard that she was in excellent health. The following case I only saw from time to time in consultation, and am unable, therefore, to give very minute information. Lord G—, a man set. 53, of highly aristocratic English descent, had suffered severely for many years from gout. While he was at Aix-la-Chapelle for this disease, slight paronychia commenced on the great toe of the left foot; gradually gangrene developed over the anterior part of this toe. The gangrenous portion separated very slowly. The patient frequently complained of sudden loss of sensation in certain parts of the body, especially in the left leg and in the face. Nothing abnormal could be detected in the arteries or the heart. I saw the patient in 1862, and heard afterwards that he died in 1863. The diagnosis of the English surgeons was “ arterial disease.” Gangrene from ancemia. > I can give no other cause than the above for the disease in the following case. J. H—, a cobbler, set. 33, had suffered two years (?) previously from frost- bite of the right foot. During the month of October he was constantly at work in a cold workshop, and his feet and legs were always icy cold and almost without sensation. When he was able to warm them again, some of the toes turned.to a blue colour, and this was accompanied by itching of the part. While crossing the Briinig (a tolerably high Swiss pass) in the month of November, the nose and the toes became partially frost-bitten. Soon after this he began to lose strength, and was forced to lie up in a hospital at Lucerne on account of swelling of the leg. The patient was of slight build, rather emaciated, and of very pale, sallow aspect. The end of the nose was of a brownish-blue colour and dry. The gangrenous portions of the skin were defined, but the line of demarcation showed no trace of discolouration, either reddish or bluish. A portion of skin between the second and third toes was dry and gangrenous, and the parts around them sensitive. Under good dietetic and other conditions the gangrenous part of the nose separated, but the process went on in the foot, and the right foot also became affected. No arterial disease could be found, nor anything wrong with the heart. The patient became gradually marasmic as the gangrene of the feet became