FATAL OAEBOLIC POISONING. 13 anatomical changes wrought in the brain by carbolic acid ; if the latter gives rise to coagulation in the cerebral vessels, it may well- give rise to these caseous areas, but at present the whole matter is veiled in obscurity. I pass on now to a case of fatal carbolic poisoning. Case.—A. S—, set. 18, was operated on for necrosis of the upper end of t-he tibia. She had at the time swelling of the knee. Lister’s dressings were employed. The operation was followed by rapid effusion into the knee-joint and high fever. I thought that I might cut short the suppuration by washing out the knee-joint with 5 per cent, carbolic solution, adopting the method so successfully employed by Volkmann and Schede. Accordingly three weeks after the first operation the joint was punctured, and a considerable amount of flocculent pus let out. A solution containing 5 per cent, of carbolic acid and 2 of glycerine was thrown into the joint, and allowed to run out again.. This process was repeated some ten or twelve times till the fluid, on escaping, was clear. All the injection appeared to return. The canula was then re- moved, and Lister’s dressings applied. The patient recovered consciousness after the anaesthetic, but was very cold. She soon again became completely unconscious, with very small pulse. An hour and a half after the operation she was in a state of deep sopor ; the pulse was scarcely perceptible; tempe- rature 97'8°. She could not be induced to [swallow anything. During the next two hours the sopor continued; the pulse disappeared, but the action of the heart was perceptible and regular; respirations frequent, rather shallow; pupils equal, moderately dilated; eyelids open, constantly moving. Slight convulsive movements were noticed in the muscles of the extremities, espe- cially in the forearms. These increased until the hand and forearm were drawn up into a spasmodically flexed position. The temperature sank in the course of three hours to 950. The extremities were cold and dry, while on the face and chest a cold sweat-broke out. Absolutely no reflex movement on pricking the surface with the needle point. Every kind of stimulant was employed : wine and ether were forced between the closed teeth, and a little was eventually swallowed. By means of friction and artificial warmth the patient revived in a slight degree, and was able to mutter a few words, and to swallow some wine and strong coffee. The pulse again could be felt and the tonic spasms of the arms yielded, although the muscular contractions per- sisted. The fluids that had been taken were now vomited, but the general condition did not improve in consequence (as happens also in narcotism from chloroform). On the contrary, the collapse set in anew, the pulse again disappeared, the action of the heart became weaker and weaker, the respira- tions more shallow, the convulsive movements of the muscles ceased, and she died six hours after the operation. The post-mortem examination was most carefully performed by Dr. Chiari, and the various parts of the body analysed chemically by Prof. Ludwig. My best thanks are due to these gentlemen for