TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. ANTERIO-VENOUS ANEURISM. 455 had so contracted that it could scarcely be felt. Four years later the patient came back again. He told us that soon after he went back to his work the aneurism returned, but it gave no trouble and did not increase in size until two years and a half later. In spite of earnest warnings of the ulti- mate danger, the patient could not be induced to submit to the compression again. W. L—, a butcher, set. 34, sixteen years previously had accidentally stabbed himself on the inner side of the left thigh. Blood spurted out of the wound and he fainted; the haemorrhage was controlled by a tampon saturated with collodion. A year later a distinctly , pulsating nodule, which rapidly grew to the size of a hen’s egg, developed in the cicatrix. For ten years the aneurism did not increase in size, and occasioned the man scarcely any inconvenience ; but seven weeks before admission he was seized with severe pain about the part. When admitted, nearly the whole of the left thigh on the inner and anterior aspect was occupied by a pulsating tumour, over which the skin was discoloured and at several points very much thinned. Esmarch’s bandage was applied, and Antyllus’s operation performed under antiseptic precautions. Septic symptoms followed and on the third day I was forced to open up the sac, which had been united by sutures. Diphtheritic inflammation of the wound ensued, and secondary haemorrhage from the distal end of the artery. He died a month after the operation. Post mortem : all the organs were found veiy anaemic. At the seat of the upper ligature only the conical upper paid of the clot was firm, the rest of the thrombus being converted into a cheesy pulp. Anterio-venous aneurism. Julie P—, aet. 32. Four years previously she had received a deep stab in the right buttock ; severe haemorrhage followed, arrested by pressure. The outer part of the leg was devoid of sensation. A whirring sound could be heard in the femoral artery close under Poupart’s ligament, and for a long time there was extravasation about the thigh. Then on the inner side of the thigh a pulsating tumour formed, in which a distinct whirring bruit could be heard. Blebs had frequently formed on the sole of the foot, and after a time a callous ulcer developed on the heel; the latter trouble induced the patient to come up to the clinic. An arterio-venous aneurism was found in the upper third of the femoral artery. The veins of the limb were not dilated. Compression was applied. Under continuous water baths the ulcer ■ of the heel cicatrised, but the aneurism was not affected by the treatment. I heard a year later that no fresh ulceration had taken place, and that the aneurism had not altered. Cail P , ait. 46. Two years previously he had strained his leg, and felt at t ic time severe pain in the left popliteal space ; shortly after he noticed a pulsating tumour in tho ham. For ten days the pain was so severe that he was foi ced to keep h is bed; tho swelling then almost disappeared, and he was able to resumo his occupation. Two months before admission, while