239 UMBILICAL HERNIA. incarceration. These are the first two cases in which I had the opportunity of observing the natural process of healing of this malformation, as described at length by Rose. In neither case was anything done, beyond applying a pad of oiled linen and a compress so as to protect the hernia from external injury. In the first case the hernia was as large as a good-sized apple; the portion of the umbilical cord (vagina funiculi umbilicalis) overlying the intestine dried up in the course of ten days. By this time the protruding intestine was covered by fibrinous adhesions, which gradually changed to a granulating surface. The subsequent shrinking and cicatrisation brought about the gradual reduction of the intestine. Eventually, a cicatrix about the size of a florin was left at the umbilicus, over which a flat pad and compress were fitted. The second case was that of a very weakly child, in whom the hernia was of a pyriform shape. On the thirteenth day the patient was attacked by severe vomiting and died shortly after. Rokitansky, who was present at the post mortem, gave as his opinion that death was caused by incarceration of the hernial tumour, and that this incarceration was due partly to the contraction of the cicatricial granulating tissue, partly to the contraction of the umbilical ring. Umbilical hernia. These cases were treated by the application of a pad, kept in position by plaster. A child fourteen weeks old was brought to us with a congenital faecal fistula, connected with the intestine at the umbilicus. At this point an invaginated loop of intestine, half an inch in length pro- truded. Eseces rarely or never passed through the fistula, and the bowels acted naturally every day. The child was very much emaciated. I fancy that this was a case where an intestinal diver- ticulum remained open at the umbilicus. I ligatured the protruding portion and removed it; no peritonitis followed. The bowels con- tinued quite regular. My idea was, as soon as the ligature came away, to attempt the closure of the fistula, but as the child was very weakly, the parents took it away from the hospital, and it died soon after; unfortunately no post mortem could be obtained. (See next page, Pig. 16).