400 COMPOUND DISLOCATION OF ANKLE. Compound Dislocation op the Ankle-Joint. Dour of these cases came under my care at Zurich; in two attempts were made to save the part, but amputation was found necessary on account of diffuse cellulitis, which commenced on tho fifth day in one case and on the thirteenth in the other. One patient died of pyaemia, the other of septicaemia; in a third, ampu- tation was performed at the knee-joint on the thirty-sixth day, on account of suppuration of the ankle-joint and diffuse phlegmonous cellulitis. The patient died six days after the operation. A man, set. 69, came under my care, who had heen treated elsewhere for a compound fracture of the ankle, and fracture of the external malleolus. Suppuration of the ankle-joint followed, and as the sinuses could not be got to close the patient came up to the hospital four and a half months after the injury. On examination the astragalus was found to be completely necrosed and loose; the sinuses were dilated, and the bone extracted. Fifteen months later I saw him; ankylosis had taken place between the tibia and the os calcis ; the shortening was very slight, and the patient could walk without a stick. (The above cases are described as “ fracture of the malleolus with wound of the ankle-joint; ” they seem to resemble those usually described in this country as compound dislocation of the ankle, though it is true that there is. usually only subluxation of the foot.—Ed.) Compound fracture at the ankle-joint. Three cases of this nature came under my observation between 1869-70, at Vienna. The first was that of a man, mt. 52, who fell from a height on to his feet, and sustained a splintered fracture of the external malleolus, and a simple- fracture of the internal malleolus. Below the latter was an opening the size of a pin’s head. A probe was passed in, but did not touch exposed bone ; it must, however, have been due to injury from within, as there was no hole either in the stocking or the boot. For the first few days there was some sanious discharge which ceased on the sixth day. Open treatment was adopted, and he recovered with a perfectly moveable ankle-joint. A man, tet. 20, was admitted with complete dislocation of the foot; the lower extremities of both the bones of the leg protruded through an opening at the inner side of the ankle. It was found necessary to remove an inch of