34 CASES OF CONCESSION—ENCEPHALITIS. up ia a corner of the bed, and rolling his blanket round him. This condition lasted five days. lie then began to answer questions, but unintelligibly. For three weeks he was off his head. He ate, drank, and slept, but answered irrationally, did not know where he was, or recognise his relations. He was during this period free from fever, clean, and easily managed. Gradually his intelligence began to return. Five weeks after the injury his intellectual iaculties were completely restored. The treatment consisted in frequent douching. «■ Since this I have observed a similar case of less severity, where the intellectual derangement lasted only eight days after the con- cussion. A woman, set. 22, was beaten about the head with an axe. Unconsciousness for four hours. Vomited twice. At the back of the head were several wounds down to the bone; at the bottom of one the bone was exposed to the extent of a florin and depressed to the depth of six to nine lines for an extent of one inch. Ecchymosis of both eyelids, subconjunctival in the right eye. Pupils equal, much dilated, sensitive. Treatment consisted of ice and aperients. For the first week after the injury there was severe headache. The depressed portion was left as it was. Traumatic fever, lasting twenty-four hours; then secondary febrile disturbance on the ninth day, lasting five days. No direct cause to be assigned for this latter attack which was followed by rapid convalescence. Depression of the skull with loss of consciousness quickly passing off. Death from encephalitis. C. W—, set. 18, a labourer, was struck on the head, just to the left of the sagittal suture, by a brick; insensible for ten minutes; vomited four times before admission; a V-shaPe(l clean cut wound 6 cm. long, at the middle of which was a depression from 6 to 8 mm. deep; no gaping of the bone; no paralysis; conscious, memory clear. On the morning of the second day he passed his urine under him. In the afternoon of the same day right motor paralysis; sensation partial. At times only the patient could be got to answer questions slowly. Calomel was given, ice applied, and venaesection performed. On the third day complete right anaesthesia, with total loss of consciousness. The depressed fragment was elevated, and a small wound of the dura mater seen. The operation was unsuccessful. Deep coma, and death four days after the injury. Post-mortem: a fissure an inch and a half in length was discovered, which commenced at the back part of the left side of the frontal bone and ran over the left parietal towards the medial line. At the posterior extremity of this a second fissure three quarters of an inch long was seen in the left parietal bone. Immediately in front of the coronal suture a third, half an inch in length, extending through the thickness of the