461 OSTEOTOMY. SPASTIC TALIPES. months are loose and weak and the patients are sometimes unable ever to walk again without some apparatus. In thirteen cases I performed subcutaneous osteotomy of the bones of the leg with the chisel. Unfortunately two of these patients (one after double osteotomy, and another after osteo- tomy of the right leg only) died of sepsis and pysemia. In the first case the pressure of the bandage set up septic phlegmo- nous inflammation of the leg, and in the other instance suppuration of the bone. With regard to the details of the operation, I may state that the osteotomy of the tibia must be made as complete as possible, so that the infraction may be easy. If too many attempts at infraction be made before the osteotomy is completed, the external lateral ligament becomes loosened, and eventually ruptured. The patients then lose all the advantage in the saving of time which the osteotomy might have granted them. The leg should not be padded after the osteotomy, but placed and kept in its new position without too much strain. If there is much difficulty in straightening the limb, one may easily be led to apply the bandages so tightly as to exercise considerable pressure on the soft parts, and thus set up phlegmonous inflam- mation as in the fatal case already mentioned. In all these cases of osteotomy the bandage was either not removed till the cure was completed (provided there were no pain or fever), or else a window was cut in it and open treatment adopted. The following case of spastic talipes (hysterical reflex contraction) presents some unusual features. Emma E—, a Jewess, aet. 19, stated that nineteen days previously to admission she had fallen and sprained her right foot; immediately after the accident she noticed that the position of the foot was unnatural, and it had remained so since. I found that thei’e was no dislocation, hut that the varus was due to spastic muscular contraction. There was a little swelling on the dorsum of the foot, which disappeared under simple treatment, but the defor- mity became rather worse ; the extensor longus pollicis became contracted to such an extent that the great toe was hyper-extended at a right angle to the metatarsus. Galvanism was tried for a time without any benefit. Under chlorofoim and also during sleep it was found that the foot resumed its normal position ; the moment the patient awoke the varus again became evident. She complained of intense pain when forcible attempts were made to straighten the foot. The loot was then straightened under an anmsthctic and put up in plaster, hut the bandage had to he removed after a day or two. On using the actual cautery the deformity would disappear for a few moments. She went under Professor Benedict, who tried an orthopaedic