272 RESULTS OF EXTERNAL URETHROTOMY. calculus and stricture, even were lie to adopt only those recom- mended by the most competent authorities. For German surgeons it requires a good deal of resignation only to operate according to one method; the French, Italians, and English do not feel this, partly because they learn and know only one method, and partly because with them the desire for stability of knowledge and its application is stronger, and is considered by them a source of strength, by us Germans one of weakness. With regard to the results that I have obtained with external urethrotomy, I should remark that I usually determined on this operation when no other seemed admissible; I adopted it also in the worst class of cases where, though exercising my best skill, the strictures were impermeable to instruments. The results of this operation for traumatic strictures in the perineal urethra were verv unfavourable. For gonorrhoeal strictures they were more successful, especially w'hen it is taken into account that of nine cases, erysipelas was the cause of death in the only patient whom I lost after this operation. External urethrotomy is especially adapted for severe cases, particularly when complicated with numerous fistula?. It is not a radical operation according to the definition given above. When I was assistant in v. Langenbeck’s clinic, I saw patients iu whom the strictures had returned after operation, when they had entirely neglected the use of the catheter. External urethrotomy can only be rendered more effectual by bearing in mind the extent of the stricture, and so dividing it thoroughly with more certainty than is possible in internal urethrotomy. External urethrotomy can only be placed on a level with other methods of operating when we succeed in rendering it free from risk by aseptic treatment of the wound, but this is very difficult to carry out in these cases, on account of the great tendency of the urine to ammoniacal fermentation. Between 1860-76, I performed external urethrotomy sixteen times; fourteen times for stricture, twice for injuries of the urethra. Eight patients recovered and eight died. Six of the deaths occur- red in patients with traumatic, one from erysipelas in gonorrhoeal stricture. The other death was in a case of fractured pelvis (p. 266), where the urethra had been injured by a fragment of bone.