TREATMENT OF GONOEEHCEAL STEIOTUEE. 269 however, and a certain amount of skill is demanded of the patients by whom the regular use of instruments has to be carried out per- severingly for periods of years. On the other hand it is unquestionable that strictures through which at first only the finest bougies or catgut instruments can be passed, will prove very troublesome, painful, and tedious to cure by dilatation. The pain, the intercurrent swelling and the periurethritis by no means diminish in proportion to the increase of the dilatation. On the contrary, whenever a change is made to a larger instrument, much care must be exercised, lest the cure be interrupted again for a long time by the swelling of the parts. Many of these sufferers lose patience; many again die from the inflammation which the constant instrumentation sets up about the urinary passages. My statistics furnish fresh evidence of this. In seventy-five cases of urethral stricture (without reference to the cause or situation of the disease) treated by gradual dilata- tion, the mortality was 9^9 per cent. No doubt it should be noted, that these statistics were compiled almost exclusively from hospital cases, that is to say from the labouring classes; such patients do not usually seek for advice until their sufferings become so- troublesome that they are unable any longer to follow their employ- ment. As a rule these people came to the hospital complaining of vesical pain and catarrh; most of them were unaware that they had a stricture. But gonorrhoeal stricture is very common in the higher and more educated classes, where the people take more care of them- selves and are more ready to consult the surgeon for slight distur- bances of health. By excepting this class of cases we should exclude a considerable number of the slighter cases of stricture, for which dilatation is the most suitable treatment. The mortality given above, therefore, can only be held true as regards hospital practice. I am quite convinced that in moderately severe as well as bad cases of stricture, internal urethrotomy and rapid dilatation as a means of accelerating the cure, will soon be as extensively adopted in Ger- many as these operations are in England and Erance. Hitherto the fear of the treatment has been very considerable, not only amongst German surgeons, but also amongst German patients. The latter, as a rule, consider that dilatation with bougies is unattended by any serious risk, while they dread any cutting operation. Of late years, unfortunately, I have had few opportunities of practising more widely these operative measures. Erom what I have seen, the progress of these cases after operation is almost free from any reaction;