FATAL CARBOLIC POISONING. 14 the care they bestowed on a case which may be taken as a typical one of acute carbolic poisoning. The report was as follows: “The right lower extremity somewhat enlarged in the neighbourhood of the knee-joint, partly from infiltration of the soft parts, partly from bony thicken- ing of the tibia. In the cavity of the knee-joint some reddish fluid containing flakes of pus; the muscles of the right thigh infiltrated throughout with reddish-brown fluid smelling decidedly of carbolic. This condition is espe- cially observed near the space between the capsule of the knee-joint and the •quadriceps extensor cruris. At the upper end of this recess is a perforation, admitting the little linger, bordered by suppurating, broken-down tissue, and forming a communication between the interior of the joint and a cavity the size of an egg in the lower part of the muscle. This cavity is invested by muscular tissue of greyish-white colour. The synovial membrane of the knee is of a brownish-red colour and feels like leather. The cartilage on the femur and tibia is wanting at some points. “ The meninges and brain very pale, the latter rather wet; serous frothy lluid in the air tubes ,• lungs free from adhesions, oedematous, and rather congested. The bronchial mucous membrane slightly reddened. Heart contracted, above normal size: recent clot in the cavities, muscular substance pale. Liver slightly fatty, of a pale grey colour. Spleen (240 grm.) pale, firm. Kidneys pale grey. No haemorrhage in any of the internal organs. Microscopic examination of the muscular substance of the thigh shows the contractile tissue partly broken up into fibrilli, partly into discs, in some parts degenerated into a finely granular detritus. In the other muscles, in the heart and parenchyma of the kidneys, the so-called “ cloudy swelling ” (triibe schwellung). Chemical examination.—Prof. Ludwig, who examined portions of the liver, spleen, kidneys, heart, muscles, and some of the urine drawn off during the height of the symptoms, reports,—“ In the specimens submitted to me, abundant carbolic acid was found. I estimated the amount of carbolic acid in the 74 c.c. of urine analysed at o-297, giving 401 grm. in 1000 c.c/’ Gladly would we eliminate all element of “ luck ” from successful operations. In truth a noble aim, and one for which I have always striven with all my might. But “ ill-luck ” we cannot get rid of; or must I regard it as a fatality that I lost my patient in this ter- rible manner ? After hesitating for years, I had minutely followed the advice of other colleagues, and, in order to check a severe dis- ease, adopted a method, the efficacy of which seemed already estab- lished, and from which brilliant results were guaranteed. Can it be that some of my colleagues have had similar experiences, and refrained from making them known P At the least, I trust that the death of my patient may have been the means of preserving others from such calamities.