507 CAUSE OE DEATH IN SECOND CASE. for the administration of food. The patient was very pale and collapsed after this operation, which lasted an hour. She died on the following day. The post mortem, as we expected, showed no general peritonitis, but only general ammnia and marasmus. On reviewing the case of Frau Schonstein we may note that the post mortem proved that the cancer had been completely removed, and that no trace of peritonitis existed. The cause of death was chiefly due to the great dilatation of the stomach; numerous other unfavourable circumstances were added which rendered the point of junction of the stomach and duodenum impermeable. The hori- zontal part of the duodeuum near the lesser curvature was attached to the cicatrix, while the large sac of the stomach was situated at the lower and back part. Thus a sharp bend must have undoubtedly been caused similar to those which Kussmaul has shown to be present in cases of dilatation of the stomach. In addition to this, the duodenum in our case was attached to the thickened edge on the lesser curvature, and thus the lumen, where the “ring sutures were inserted, was converted into a slit, through which the atonic muscular coats of the stomach were unable to drive the gastric contents. The peristaltic movements of the stomach became reversed and vomiting set in. The importance of dilatation of the stomach as a complication was well shown by this case. Case 3.—Franziska Heininger, single, was admitted 8th March, 1881. She had suffered from gastric troubles and daily vomiting for about a year. Since October, 1880, she had only been able to take fluid food, and since the same date a tumour had been noticed and she had suffered marked pain in the gastric region. When admitted she did, however, take solid food without vomit- ing, but complained of heartburn. She frequently went eight days without any action of the bowels. The patient had become greatly emaciated during the few months previous to admission. When first seen she was very anamiic and wasted; the mucous membranes were pale, the skin dry, the pulse 88, the abdomen soft; above and to the right of the umbilicus was situated a slightly nodulated tumour, rather larger than a hen’s egg, and somewhat movable: its limits could not be exactly defined; it was free from the abdo- minal walls, gave pain on pressure, and shifted its position with the respira- tory movements. No dilatation of the stomach could be made out. If she took meat she vomited up the contents of the stomach, with some blood. Milk, coffee, and broth she could take well. The preparatory treatment for the operation consisted in washing out the stomach, nutrient wine cncmata, and the usual antiseptic measures. The operation was performed on the 12th March, 1881. No spray. An incision was made, four and three quarter inches long, us shown in Fig. 1 a. The right rectus was cut through, the