390 TREATMENT OF FRACTURED FEMUR. made by means of strips of plaster laid along the sides of the limb. The boot forms, as it were, part of the leg, and can be taken off—plaster, weight, and all—very readily. The advantages of this method of treatment have been so clearly shown by Volk- mann, and more recently by Schede, that any further encomiums from me would be superfluous. Every method of extension has one disadvantage, viz. that in the unavoidable movements of the patient, the upper fragment is more disturbed than it would be if encased in a firm bandage: even if the patient is laid on a sacking stretched over a frame which can be removed and replaced when necessary, this drawback cannot entirely be obviated. Although the pain is diminished by traction on the fractured ends, yet in some very sensitive patients the plan does not answer. If only small weights be employed, sufficient counter-extension will be secured by raising up the foot end of the bed; when a heavy weight was necessary, I employed a perineal strap; one end passed beneath the sacrum and was secured to the head of the bed, the other passed vertically upwards, and was fastened to a sort of gallows apparatus, immediately above the patient. Counter-exten- sion in this way is less annoying, and more freedom is allowed for the movements of the body. Two patients came under treatment, in whom the thigh was in an osteo-porotic condition, after old arthritic disease. In one case the knee, in the other the hip was affected. The fracture was due to very slight injury. Consolidation of the fracture took place in twenty-seven and thirty-two days respectively. (W. B.) In fractures of the lower epiphysis of the femur or of the condyles, and for fractures extending into the knee-joint, I have now (1876) altogether abandoned the plaster bandages in favour of treatment by extension; I find that the latter method is more convenient for the patient as well as for the surgeon, that union takes place more rapidly, and that the tendency to shortening can be better controlled than by the plaster treatment. The extension treatment is admir- ably adapted for hospital practice; still, I by no means wish to deny the excellent results gained by treatment with firm bandages.