301 OVAEIQTOMY. diagnosis was always correct. Of one thing, however, I am quite sure, viz. that fortunate cases of this description are rare indeed as compared with the frequency of ovarian cysts. Simple cysts, independent of any colloid tumours, are in themselves not of common occurrence ; the number of cases too, where nothing can be drawn off by tapping, and where, to all appearance, firm, or solid tumours exist, is, according to my experience, just as large as the number of cysts that admit of tapping. These firm tumours may either consist of numerous small colloid growths, with tense walls, or may be sarcomata, or dermoid cysts. The number of ovarian cysts met with is quite astonishing to me, and when I reflect that during the last five years my colleagues v. Dumreicher, Dittel, Salzer, Weinlechner, Kumar, Mosetig v. Moorhof, v. Kokitansky, and others, have performed ovariotomy more and more frequently, it almost seems as if more and more ovarian tumours actually arose for the operation. Ovariotomy is one of the few operations about which I received no instruction from my teachers; I have only seen the operation performed once, by any one but myself, viz., by Spencer Wells, in the year 1865, at Zurich; and in that case I saw nothing of the after treatment. This case I took as my model, and Spencer Wells's remarks on the most important points connected with the operation, I adopted as the fundamental principles for my own guidance, when I began to operate. My first case at Zurich, and the first few in Vienna, did remarkably well; then came unsuccessful cases. I followed the recommendations of other operators, and for a time, improvement followed; notably in some of the very worst cases, I succeeded beyond expectation. At that time I used to operate on almost every case, on the principle ancejps remedium melius quam nullum. As a consequence my experience widened, but in many cases the results were discouraging. Long before this I had felt that ovariotomy as an operation was more than justified. I became ambitious to extend the operation of laparotomy as far as possible to cases deemed hopeless, and no complication deterred me. Utilising all the recommendations of my colleagues, and often varying my method in details, I have extirpated carcinomatous tumours, sarcomata, omental tumours, the kidney, spleen, etc. This practice had its good as well as its bad consequences. The good results were, that I was able to save the lives of a number of women on whom many of my colleagues would hardly have thought