SEROUS CYST: MALIGNANT STRICTURE OF (ESOPHAGUS. 127 Probably this was ,a case of congenital cystic hygroma. The child went on well/and when he came back to me, some time after, was well developed. The skin of the neck on the right side was rather wrinkled, but in other respects there was nothing abnormal to be seen. Behind the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid the finger could be pushed in quite up to the vertebral column. Serous cyst of the neck. G. H—, Eet. 30, was admitted in June, 1870. In March, 1869, lie had suffered from pleurisy of the left side, which had confined him to bed for three months. Immediately after this he first noticed a soft painless tumour, the size of a hazel nut, above the left clavicle, which increased slowly but constantly. When he was admitted the cyst was of the circumference of a good sized apple, and fluctuated distinctly. The cyst was punctured, some pure serum escaped, and the sac then completely collapsed. I immediately injected some tincture of iodine, with an equal amount of water, and let the injection out again after ten minutes. Moderate reaction followed ; absorption was very gradual; a year later we heard that the tumour had gradually dis- appeared entirely. The case may have been one of lymphangioma or a lymph varix, possibly originating from compression of the thoracic duct by the pleuritic exudation. Superficial ulcerated sarcoma. A woman, ast. 53, found, when she was sixteen years old, a wood tick (Ixodes ncinus) in the skin over the subclavian triangle. This she drew out. A small nodule remained at the spot, which increased slowly hut continually for thirty-seven years. The lymphatic glands in the neighbourhood were not enlarged. The tumour was removed, and three years later the patient was free from recurrence, and perfectly well. Cancerous Stricture oe the (Esophagus. Most of these cases were treated by the introduction of bougies. In one case the cancer of the oesophagus was com- bined with an aneurism of the arch of the aorta. No internal cancerous deposits were found post mortem. Under some cir- cumstances it may be just as difficult to introduce a sound through a stricture of the oesophagus' as through a stricture of the urethra. In the former case, the patient may still be