40 REMARKS ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. the patient lies in a condition of heavy drowsiness, and when there is but little hope of recovery. High temperatures, together with complete loss of consciousness and slow pulse, may sometimes indicate meningitis. When a head injury is followed by increasing symptoms of compression, but w'ithout fever, and death takes place after two or three days, probably no meningitis will be found post mortem. In such cases death must be ascribed to compression caused by extravasation and serous effusions. Do the cases of acute suppurative meningitis really only die from compression and oedema of the brain, the result of the pressure exercised on the return flow of the venous blood ? This question 1 have often put to myself at the autopsies of these cases, particu- larly when the purulent and serous effusions were small in amount, and totally out of proportion to the severe symptoms observed during life. Dor my own part, I am convinced that blood- poisoning, which is nearly always associated with traumatic meningitis and manifests itself by high fever, is perhaps quite as often the cause of death as the compression of the brain. I have no doubt in ray own mind that “ foudroyante ” traumatic perito- nitis, and acute traumatic pleurisy,1 are fatal from the extensive absorption of highly poisonous inflammatory products; this is easily explained on anatomical grounds, for we know through v. Recklinghausen that these serous membranes are immensely rich in lymphatics, and that these same lymphatics have openings on their free surface, into wdiich molecular bodies can pass. The researches of this observer have shown further that the membranes of the brain and the brain itself are both richly supplied with lymph channels (perivascular canals). Now, by these—so soon as trau- matic inflammation is set up—the highly poisonous products can be readily taken up, so that anatomical grounds exist for the assertion I have just made. Septicaemia, as we observe it come on in injuries of the extremities, without any head lesion, is often marked in its course by partial loss of consciousness or maniacal delirium, and evidenced by the hot, flushed forehead, a full, hard pulse, in short, by symptoms which in a case of head injury we should refer positively to the participation of the brain, while really such brain symptoms are only the result of blood-poisoning. It is exceediugly difficult to assign in every case the right cause, from symptoms such 1 i.e. Secondary, pyremic pleurisy. Ed.