172 EFFECTS OF IODINE INJECTIONS ON I3RONCHOCELES. 'the bronchocele be injected every other day, or daily, no ill effect in the general condition will probably be noticed for the first week, but then, after repeated injections, rapid emaciation sets in even in strong individuals; the patients become languid, exhausted and feverish at night; the eyes are bright and sunken, the urine con- tains albumin, and sometimes the sputa show traces of blood, while the patients are troubled with cough and catarrhal inflammation. Formerly I did not quite believe in these subacute and chronic states of iodism, for I never saw it after the use of iodide of potas- sium in large doses; I no longer now, however, have any doubt that the condition above described is the direct result of the iodine. Many pathologists take quite a different view, and hold that when a bronchocele, from any reason whatever, disappears rapidly, the organism becomes affected owing to the taking up of the products of the broken-down tissue, which had been absorbed from the bronchocele. The emaciation is then, according to their view, not caused by the iodine, but by the absorption of the broken-down tissue of the bronchocele. It is exceedingly difficult to say which view is the correct one. I can only recall one case where the ■patient was not taking iodine in which the rapid disappearance of a bronchocele was attended by emaciation. A man, set. 50, had suffered for many years from bronchocele of the left side, of the dimensions of a large fist; tabes gradually developed, which seemed to have its starting-point in the brain, and was associated with ptosis of the right eye. In the course of a year he became reduced to a skeleton ; he had suffered from severe neuralgic pains, allayed by frequent morphia injections. Simultaneously with this general emaciation the bronchocele entirely disappeared. * Now, could it be said in this case that tabes was secondary to the disappearance of the struma? Hardly, I think; rather the relations of the two processes must have been reversed. I only ..adduce the case as an example of the disappearance of a long- existing bronchocele accompanied by rapid emaciation, without iodine injections. Although this only occasionally happens, yet I have observed ■emaciation accompany the injection of iodine in a good number of eases. I think that I am justified in entering a warning against any too rapid and bold attempts at cures of this description, especi- ally in weakly individuals. Especially careful ought we to be with