112 OANCEIi OF THE TONGUE. were divided, improvement followed in the course of a year or so and in some instances the paralysis completely disappeared. The majority of the tumours originated between the ages of ten and thirty. Medullary lymphoma of the tonsils and the suhmaxillary lymphatic glands. J. T—, sbt. 62. The tumour, which was of moderate size, had been noticed four weeks previously, first externally, later internally. The velum on the right side was pushed forward to a great extent, and the tumour bulged out from beneath it; breathing and swallowing were difficult. Osteoplastic resection of the lower jaw was performed aud the tumour com- pletely extirpated. The operation was long and very extensive, and death took place from exhaustion two days later. Alveolar cancer of the tongue. J. F—, ast. 57. Five months previously a small lump had appeared in the left half of the tongue, which grew rapidly, and caused pain. The tumour, which was the size of a walnut, was removed by the ecraseur. The growth was of a very peculiar character, showing a combination of a branching chon- droma with alveolar cancer (Driisenkrebs). Eighteen months later he was seen again. There was then no recurrence in the tongue or swelling of the lymphatic glands. He died a few months later of lung disease. W. K—, set. fi7, had first noticed pain and hardness of the right half of the tongue six weeks before admission; a cancerous ulcer, which extended far back, was seen on the right side of the tongue ; no enlarged glands could be felt; he could only open the mouth to a small extent. In order to avoid haemorrhage as much as possible, I commenced by ligaturing the light lingual artery. I performed the operation lege artis, but had most extraordinary diffi- culty in discovering the artery. Finally, I thought I saw it pulsating, and placed a ligature round it. The mouth was then forced open, and it was found that the disease involved the inner surface of the lower jaw on the right side. I completely resected the diseased portion of the maxilla, and was then able, very conveniently, to remove the whole diseased portion of the tongue as far back as the larynx; this was done with great care. Had I luiown previously tliat it wrnuld have been necessary to extirpate the lower half of the jaw, I should naturally not have ligatured the lingual artery. In removing the lower and under