420 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT OP OSTEOMYELITIS. character.1 So far as I know, no systematic observations have hitherto been made at the bedside in other hospitals, of the same nature as mine. Neither on theoretical, nor on practical grounds, can any advantage be derived from promulgating hypotheses, founded on our present information. These matters must be attacked by new methods, and new lines of thought, and from new points of view • the work that has hitherto been done on this subject, is, in my eyes, simply little more than a feeble commence- ment. To return to the subject of osteomyelitis; with regard to the symptoms, I may add that lethargy, profuse diarrhoea, and the early occurrence of bed-sores seem tolerably regular in their occur- rence. A slight degree of icterus is frequently met with and in many cases temporary attacks of dyspnoea associated with consider- able haemoptysis, probably due to fat embolism in the capillaries of the lungs and liver. This latter lesion occurs, as is known, after compound fractures, but it may also take place where the bones are deliberately fractured, as will be shown hereafter. The process is due to rapid breaking down of the fat cells of the medulla, while the increased intra-ossal pressure favours the passage of the fat cells into the medullary veins. In the matter of treatment, I have come to the conclusion, that it is best to wait till fluctuation is distinct, and then to make a fine puncture down to the bone: by thus letting out some of the effused fluid, the tension and the severe pain are relieved. The puncture has little influence in limiting the necrosis that follows, for, although the blood circulates more readily after the effused fluid is withdrawn, yet the delimitation of the necrosis is commonly laid down by the time abscess forms. Formerly, much difficulty was experienced in allowing any further effusions to escape readily after puncture, and in guarding against decomposition in re- tained fluid. Now-a-days, however, with drainage tubes, and modern antiseptic dressings, we may hope to obviate these sources of danger to some extent; it is of the utmost importance to the patient that we should do so. The drainage tubes have to be carried through the thick muscular coverings of the thigh; unless numerous drains be kept in, the muscles will close up, or so bulge forward through the splits in the fascia, that the decomposing 1 Cf Mikulicz in tlie ‘ Arcliiv fur Klin. Cliir.,’ Bd. 22, p. 253.