TREATMENT OF CYSTITIS AND CJYSTO-PYELITIS. 265 observed two, viz. paralysis of tlie detrusor urinse muscle, and of the sphincter vesicse. Hitherto I have not met with any cases in which diseases of the spinal cord were set up in a reflex manner, although many of these patients seem to be, or to become, tabetic. In one case which I had under constant observation a year ago, the urine could sometimes be expelled without pain, but now it has to be drawn off; yet no change can be detected in the bladder with the catheter. In others the sphincter failed in its functions only when the bladder was very distended, especially in the night, as so often happens in hypertrophy of the prostate. Under such conditions the only thing that can be done is to teach the patient how to use the catheter for himself. If the bladder is able to contract to its smallest dimensions several times daily, its innervation will recover though it will not regain its normal power. The most difficult task that the surgeon has to accomplish, after he has combated all these accidental complications is to cure the actual disease. Here it must be admitted our art chiefly fails. I think I have tried every kind of remedy that has been recommended; all kinds of astringents, drugs highly recommended by English writers such as Buchu, Pareira Brava, etc. Liq. Per. Sesquichlor. (as used by Thompson for “ irritable bladder”), inhalations of tur- pentine (advised by Dittel), have been tried in turn. In private, a few patients obtained slight relief from some of these drugs, espe- cially when they first took to a new one, but the improvement did not last. Baths and mineral waters can do little more; if the patients drink much, their troubles increase. The waters of Carls- bad, Marienbad, and Heinrichsquelle, I found useless. On the other hand the baths of Teplitz, Gastein, and Baden-Baden are often remarkably beneficial. Mountain climates are seldom borne well; these patients easily catch cold, and have an instinctive dread of low temperatures. In winter, when possible, I advise these patients to seek a southern climate, but the effect of the Riviera and similar places does not come up to expectations. The more quietly these patients live, the longer do they resist their complaint. I know of cases where decided symptoms of pyelitis have existed for ten years or more and yet the affection, as determined by the quantity of pus, has not increased. With these patients I did not find it possible to make repeated examinations of the urine, at regular intervals. I cannot say positively whether the amount of urea diminishes in proportion to the gradual disappearance of the secreting substance