“ CIECUMSCKEBED CHRONIC ORCHITIS.” 291 I may add that during my whole surgical experience no patient has ever come before me with a hydrocele recurring after it had been tapped and injected with iodine by another surgeon. A few surgeons lately have revived the treatment of hydrocele by incision, and speak well of the results obtained under antiseptic treatment. When I was a student this method of treating hydrocele was considered antiquated and uncertain ; the few cases where the affection returned after operation were those in which incision had been adopted. My method of treating hydrocele now is as follows I evacuate all the fluid, and then inject two ounces of a mixture containing equal parts of our officinal tincture of iodine and water; the tincture of iodine is always freshly prepared. This mixture I allowed to remain in the tunica vaginalis for five minutes; meanwhile I manipulate the sac in such a way as to bring the fluid in contact 'with every part of the lining membrane. If there is any pain I allow all the injected fluid to escape ; if there is no pain I leave a quarter or a third of the fluid in the sac. It not infrequently happens that the day after the operation the tunica vaginalis is found to contain some gas. This may have got in at the time of operation, and become expanded by the temperature of the body, or it may be the vapour of the alcohol and iodine. There is never any occasion to evacuate this gas, for it will always be absorbed without trouble. Inflammation of the Testis. Cases of epididymitis and orchitis which were neither of gonor- rhoeal nor syphilitic origin were usually designated as “ tubercular testis.” I have endeavoured to substitute for this name the general term of “ circumscribed chronic (caseous) orchitis,’5 for the expres- sion “ tubercular55 compels us too much to assume that this disease is etiologically connected with the tubercular diathesis. This is by no means always the case. By reason of the anatomical arrangement of the separate lobules of the testis, disease of one division of this gland does not readily extend into another. The formation of nodules in the testis is scarcely ever due to the coalescence of numerous small miliary nodules into one large mass; the limitation results Irom the strong septa which partition off the gland into.