PROGNOSIS. TREATMENT WHEN STOMACH IS DILATED. 509 shown in Plate III, fig. 6. Thirty “ ring sutures ” (fourteen internal, sixteen external) were put in and the stomach replaced. The excised mass measured twelve centimetres along the greater curvature. The patient was perfectly free from reaction after the operation. She had no fever, vomiting, or sym- ptoms of peritonitis. For the first four days she had retching and heartburn several times during the day. On the fifth day her condition was perfectly satisfactory. For the first nine days she was given fluid food (milk, wine, eggs), which was well borne. By the tenth day she was able to take meat. The abdominal wound healed by first intention, and the gastric region was perfectly painless on pressure thirteen days after the operation. (Dr. Wolfler writes, under date 28th June, that this patient was then per- fectly well, and was able to take all kinds of nourishment without harm. She was kept under close observation, but no trace of recurrence had, up to date, been discovered.) The question might be ashed, whether the cicatrix of the stomach after this operation would be able permanently to resist the action of the gastric juice. This may be answered in the affirmative, for we know that many gastric ulcers heal up, and the cicatrix left is not affected by the gastric juice. Further, the permanency of recovery in the cases of gasteroraphy performed by Billroth and Esmarch affords additional evidence of the fact. A patient, on whom more than three years previously Billroth had operated for a large gastric fistula, wrote to us that he continued perfectly well, could take any kind of food, and had not the least pain in the part. Is it possible that a cicatricial stricture might originate, perhaps after some years, at the part where the “ring sutures ” are inserted ? Our experience of other cases enables us to dismiss this fear. Billroth performed enteroraphy on three patients in the years 1878 1879, and 1880, and he heard from them in 1881 that they were going on excellently, that they had no trouble from indigestion, and that the bowels acted normally. We may conclude, then, that no narrowing will take place at the junction of the stomach and duodenum if the serous surfaces unite by first intention. A more important question is the course to be pursued when the stomach is much dilated. Under such circumstances the best plan appears to be to attach the duodenum to the greater curvature. A com- parison of the third and fourth cases illustrates this point. If in excising the pylorus much difficulty is found in drawing the duodenum over to the stomach, it would be proper to leave a fistula into the duodenum for the purposes of nutrition. The diseases for which resection of the pylorus should be reserved are cancer and other rarely occurring tumours, ulcers of