12 CEREBRAL EFFECTS OF CARBOLIC POISONING. 1 ‘Wien. Med. Wock.,’ 1868, No. 1, •subsequently gave way again. By the tenth day the urine was natural in colour, but contained albumin. Symptoms indicative of meningitis and localised cerebral affection now arose. Clonic spasms affected the right stcmo- mastoid muscle, and both the upper extremities were paralysed. Then com- plete sopor came on. All these symptoms, however, gradually subsided, and the albumin disappeared from the urine. The stools continued dark for about three weeks. The patient was eventually carried off by an attack of erysipelas eight weeks after the operation. Post-mortem examination showed suppura- tion in both thighs and thrombosis of the crural veins, and chronic encephalitis affecting the cortex and grey matter of the frontal convolutions. I am far from ascribing death in this last case to the carbolic acid; still, I think the term proposed by Koster, “ carbolic marasmus ” might be applicable. All three cases above recorded were in children; intensely dark urine, black stools, vomiting of black fluid, restlessness, collapse, lethargy, were in all the cases the principal symptoms to a greater or less extent. I have already drawn attention to the occurrence of acute serous meningitis in children after operations.1 In these cases, however, the symptoms are different, and death takes place early. Menin- gitis—usually basal—is met with rather frequently in children affected with caries, but I have seldom found in such cases caseous areas in the brain substance. In the last of the three cases above given, the disease was of a most complicated form. Unquestionably, acute nephritis had something to do with it, and I have already shown the connection of this with carbolism. A recent contribution by Sonnenburg to the c Centralblatt fur Chirurgie ’ (1878, No. 45) sets this beyond doubt; the brain symptoms also may be due to nephritis. I do not unreservedly agree with the view that these caseous areas in the brains of children are due to “ old chronic caseation.” Any one who has experimented on rabbits knows that these areas may form in animals in a few days, and may be found in all the organs ; the existence of a capsule will determine the age of such areas. In children they may remain latent for a long period, especially when situated in the frontal convolutions. These areas are undoubtedly the starting-point of localised convulsive movements in certain parts of the body; whether they then originate, or whether they only betray themselves more owing to cedema of the brain depending on nephritis, or whether in enlarg- ing they give rise to symptoms of irritation, are all questions which could hardly be answered precisely. We do not know the