254 CANCER OE RECTUM. recovery was permanent. I have already in the 'Wien. Med. Wochens./ 1871, No. 35, pointed out the great advantage of employing fuming sulphuric acid. I have not been able to discover that the acid nitrate of mercury has any special qualities to recom- mend it. Both caustics are disadvantageous in one respect, viz. that their action is materially interfered with when haemorrhage takes place from the application; these are the very cases where the haemorrhoidal condition is apt to return owing to imperfect cauterisation. In such cases the actual cautery takes its old place, as it does also wherever the protrusion is very large, or requires to be drawn forwards with the vulsellum, a proceeding which always occasions some bleeding. In singly occurring protrusions personal convenience will guide the operator in choosing between the actual cautery and the galvano-caustic loop. Quite recently I have, for convenience sake, employed von Langenbeck's clamp, and then destroyed the haemor- rhoids by Paquelin’s cautery. This method of operating is the most convenient for the surgeon, and the most radical for the patient when an anaesthetic is desired. I have only employed the ligature and ecraseur once, in order to show it to my audience, as I had no previous experience of its efficacy. Cancek of the Bectum. While at Zurich I extirpated the rectum in twelve cases, on account of malignant disease. Except in two, they were all cases of ulcerated alveolar cancer (Driisen Krebs) \ six recovered and six died of peritonitis after the operation. Cancerous stricture of the rectum. Removal. jjerr S—, about fifty years of age, bad suffered for many years from obstruction, which, however, be bad always been able to overcome successfully without taking any medicine, by carefully regulating his diet. Three months before he consulted me, very severe pain attacked him, and I10 lost some blood whenever the bowels acted. The motions were very hard and painful. Examination occasioned much distress, but I was able to find, about half an inch above the rectum, a stricture, caused by a projecting cancerous growth. The stricture was about an inch and a half in length, and the finger could