150 INFLUENCE OF DENTITION ON LYMPHOMA. two dentition periods which produce glandular swellings. Thee enlargements, attract little notice in the majority of cases; in scro- fulous children they are marked and become permanent, owing, as it is supposed, to some local qualitative want of power to^resist irri- tative disturbances. It is certainly worth while for the profession to continue their etiological investigations in this direction, but for the hospital surgeon the difficulties are in this, as in other etio- logical investigations, very great; for the most part we have to depend on the unreliable statements of patients who are usually uneducated. As to the age at which, among our patients, lym- phatic swellings originate, I have some tolerably clear data. The small glandular swellings which come under observation in children from one to five years old mostly prove to be acute or subacute abscesses. It would be, however, premature did we attempt to infer from this that the first period of dentition may not give rise to chronic lymphoma, for our observations did not extend to the out- patients, and no children were admitted simply for swollen cervical glands. Lymphatic swellings in children of rather more advanced age were not usually referred back by the parents to the period of the first dentition: this I may point out is due to the fact that the lymphatic swellings at that age more commonly disappear or else terminate in acute abscess; in general, all the symptoms accompany- ing the first period of dentition have a more acute character than those of the second period. Out of fifty-seven cases fifteen occurred during the second period of dentition. The influence of the wisdom teeth on the disease is an open question. In none of the cases was there syphilis; in one case only was the hypertrophy of the lymphatic glands in the neck, accompanied by enlargement of the spleen without any increase of the white corpuscles of the blood. The patient died of marasmus and amemia. Post mortem, we found an enormously hypertrophied spleen, and commencing cirrhosis of the liver; in the blood of the splenic veins were many spindle cells (endothelium of the vein); the other organs were normal. The whole process had lasted one year. Whatever ideas be entertained as to the etiology of lymphoma, two general conclusions are beyond dispute—(i) the lymphatic glands are almost invariably affected secondarily; (2) excepting the mesentery, there is no region of the body where the lymphatic glands are so often swollen as in the neck. Now, for this there must be reasons, and these reasons ought to be discovered. Perhaps we do