437 ANKYLOSIS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. Ankylosis of the Knee-joint. In many cases where the limb was ankylosed at a bad angle, I employed forcible extension under an anaesthetic. Sixteen cases thus treated at Zurich recovered without any unfavourable sym- ptoms whatever, and the patients were able afterwards to walk with a straight limb. My custom is to abstain from passive movements after straightening the limb in cases where the condition is due to disease which has existed for more than a year, or where suppuration of the joint has followed after injury. It was found necessary in many cases to repeat the process several times before the limb could be straightened, and I did not always succeed in obtaining a perfectly good result. From three to five months, or even more, often elapse before the joint is healed in its new position. The bandages must be kept on as long as there is any pain, but as soon as the patients are able to walk without discomfort, I allow them to get about as much as they please. On the question whether some amount of movement may gradually return after the extension, a reserved opinion must be given. In rheumatic disease affecting only one joint, better results may be expected than in the destructive tumor albus. We must not expect to regain any movement when the leg is rotated outwardly, adducted and flexed, and united obliquely by adhesions to the condyles of the femur. Ankylosis, the result of traumatic suppuration of the joint, is the firmest of all, being usually completely osseous. JoliannM—, ret. 22. Six years previously lie had suffered very acute pain in both knees, but the joints were not much swollen, nor was the skin reddened. The pain lasted for fivo months ; he then was able to get about with the aid of crutches and a stick, hut in the course of a few months, both knees beoame ankylosed, the right in an extended, the left in a flexed posi- tion. Attempts were made to extend the left leg by means of an apparatus, but without success. The patient then spent some summers at Teplitz, but the mobility of his knee-joints did not materially improve. When admitted I found him a strong man, and in good general health. The left kneo was ankylosed at an angle of 120°, and the right completely ankylosed in a straight position. Although the disease in the joints had ceased five years previously, yet taking into consideration the relatively short duration of the disease and its undoubtedly rheumatic origin, I thought it would