332 ENCHONDROMA OE PELVIS. supposed to be due to sciatica. Sitting down caused him great suffering, lie was sent to Wiesbaden for the affection, which was supposed to be of a rheumatic nature. At the end of 1865, he first noticed a hard tumour on the right side of the perineum. For some time the suffering varied much in degree, and he was not compelled to absent himself from his military duties. He then consulted Professor Roser, who discovered a pelvic tumour, and on the supposition that it might be a syphilitic exostosis, treated him with iodine, but without any benefit. Subsequently other antisyphilitic treatment was employed with equal want of success. In November, 1868, the pain from the tumour increased to such an extent, that frequent subcutaneous injections were necessary, and the patient was forced to keep to his bed. There was great difficulty in defsecation; enemata could hardly be given, and purgatives caused very great distress; in fact, his condition was such that we agreed he could not last many months. He was fully aware that his case was hopeless, but was very resigned, and more than hinted his determination to commit suicide, if his sufferings became unbearable. He asked me whether operation was absolutely out of the question. I told him that it was not possible to speak from experience on the matter, but that, acting on certain suppositions—the accuracy of which could not be predetermined—it would be possible to remove the tumour without any direct danger to life ; further, that though, of course, recovery was problematical, his power of walking might be restored. The patient caught eagerly at this last ray of hope. I warned him that I would not undertake the operation unless symptoms arose pointing directly to a fatal issue; on the other hand, I did not conceal from him that a certain amount of strength and vitality were necessary if we were to expect the operation to suc- ceed. I promised to see the patient from time to time. The regi- mental surgeon who saw him with me supposed that I only meant to console the patient, and, though himself an able surgeon, did not fancy that operation was possible. I, however, was seriously in earnest; the hopeless condition of this amiable young man, who had, so to speak, already done with life, his calm, resolute manner, and his absolute confidence in me, inspired me with courage to attempt something exceptional; moreover, anatomically, as well as physiologically, the operation was practicable, and did not directly endanger life. The patient lost ground more rapidly than I had anticipated; failure of appetite, increase of pain, almost complete obstruction, difficulty in micturi- tion, insomnia, and ever-increasing doses of morphia—each and all _ con- tributed to reduce Iris strength. In January, 1869, the occurrence of distension and vomiting urged me to decisive action. On mentioning to him the alternative resort of forming au