114 REMOVAL OF TONGUE FOR CANCER. Scrasement I have of late discarded, but on live occasions I removed the growth with the galvano-caustic loop. However, I liave quite given up both these methods, for the following reasons :— ist. In separating the tongue longitudinally, haemorrhage cannot be completely guarded against: even if the platinum wire be only moderately heated the loop cuts its way too easily and quickly, as the bundles of muscle are arranged parallel to its track. 2nd. Bleeding does not occur from the fore part of the tongue to any great extent, and by means of the knife the removal of the cancerous disease can be more accurately effected. 3rd. In cases where the degeneration of the tongue extends far back and reaches low down, it is not easy to be sure of removing all the diseased portion with the loop, by reason of the irregular depth to which the disease extends. Small fragments remaining on the cauterised surface cannot be readily recognised, and even if they are detected, their subsequent removal is usually attended with con- siderable bleeding. Finally, excision with the galvano-caustic loop gives no security against diphtheritic disease of the wound, and one of my patients died from this affection. Latterly I have given up uniting the operation wounds by sutures. I cannot assert that the sutures bring about any evil results, but I find that patients have much less pain after the opera- tion if no sutures are inserted, for the tongue does not swell so much and the secretion of saliva is much less in amount and does not last so long. When portions of the floor of the mouth were excised, an opening was always made towards the neck, in order to facilitate the discharge of the secretions. This arrangement is very comfortable for the patients. As. regards removal of the tongue from the neck, different opera- tions have been proposed and practised by Eegnoli, Czerny, and myself, but I regret to say that the hopes which I formerly enter- tained have, unfortunately, not been confirmed. Wider experience of the operation seems to show that it is of a more dangerous character than from the first few cases it appeared to be. In a list of thirteen such operations, eight deaths were recorded; diphtheritic inflammation of the surface of the wound, followed sooner or later by metastatic affections, was in all the cause of death. We took the utmost precautions in order to obviate, if possible, this diphtheritic inflammation of the mouth; the mouth and the teeth were always carefully cleansed for several days beforehand. Solutions of per-