8 CARBOLIC ACID POISONING. Clinical observation subsequently confirmed them in every par- ticular. At this time it was not known that the absorption of carbolic acid by a wounded surface might produce fatal results. At my request some of my pupils prosecuted researches on the subject, but they were discouraged by the uncertain results with regard to the toxic symptoms, and also by their failure to de- monstrate any distinctive pathological appearances. Koster, in a very laborious essay,1 has treated the subject at gijeat length, but I see from his experiments that he got no further than we did. The subcutaneous injection of concentrated solutions led to rapid and extensive sloughing of the skin and cellular tissue, and most of the animals died from these causes, some with high, some with low temperatures. No decided results were obtained by injecting weak solutions of carbolic acid. The injections, if repeated fre- quently, caused suppuration and rapid emaciation, and led to such complicated conditions that it was found impossible to estimate accurately, or discriminate with precision, the appearances mani- fested. The animals experimented upon were carefully examined after death, but no evidence could be gathered to settle with cer- tainty whether in man death was due to absorption of the carbolic acid by the skin or the cellular tissue. The poisonous properties of carbolic acid would scarcely have been so soon recognised had not the olive-green discoloration of the urine constituted a symptom too obvious to be overlooked. If all substances which are excreted by the urine caused alteration of colour in that fluid—if, for instance, the urine or saliva were always black when they contained iodine—the appearance would not lead to apprehensions of poisoning. The symptom is one on which I must dwell for a short time. According to my experience, there can exist no doubt that the discoloration of the urine affords no reliable test of the amount of carbolic acid absorbed, but may depend on the idio- syncrasies of the individual. The fact that the olive-green colour of the urine proves that carbolic acid has been absorbed is almost beyond question. Let us imagine, however, two indi- viduals subjected, under precisely similar conditions, to the action (external) of equal quantities of carbolic acid; in one the urine might be normal in colour, in the other green; yet it would hardly be correct to assume that in the first case no carbolic acid 1 ‘Arch, fur Kl. Cliir.,’ Bd. xxiii, p. 117.