ENCHONDBOMA OF PELVIS. 327 Inflammation of the Inguinal Lymphatic Glands. (W. B.) In one case where there was an immense bunch of hypertrophied glands, in which partial suppuration had taken place, I extirpated the mass; the operation was followed by recovery. Eight cases of acute and subacute enlargement of the lymphatic glands came under treatment, for which no peripheral cause of origin could be discovered. If the existence of pus could not be made out, attempts were always made to procure resolution by means of compression with shot-bags. I have succeeded in com- pletely curing a few cases in private practice by this means, and the infiltrated glands often disappear with remarkable rapidity. Single glands, however, in which probably pus had already formed, ran on to suppuration. The treatment by compression was continued after the opening of the abscesses, which closed up with remarkable rapidity. The following case, where a deeply-seated inguinal abscess burst into the bladder, is of some interest. The patient, a man, set. 32, had noticed nine months before his admission an inguinal swelling on the right side. An abscess formed in this spot, which was opened, and soon healed up. Two months later a fresh abscess formed, close to the cicatrix of the former one. After a fortnight it broke spon- taneously, and urine was discharged, together with pus, from the opening. A very small urinary fistula was left which closed up completely and per- manently after cauterisation. Cystic enchondroma. I was consulted by a gentleman about 50 years of age, for a tumour of this nature in the sacro-iliac region. On puncturing the growth, which was about the size of a foetal head, and in which fluctuation was very perceptible, a large quantity of brownish-red, viscid fluid escaped. Numerous sago-like bodies floated about in the fluid. On microscopical examination these proved to consist of hyaline cartilage. Of the further history of the patient, I know nothing. The tumour had originated thirteen years previously, after an injury. Osleo-chondroma of the pelvis ; removal, transfusion, deathd liom an operative point of view the following case is of great ; Fi;T thC *Wien; Woch-’’ Jan. 9, 1875, No. ii, p. 26, being, an extract from a paper by Dr. Billroth entitled “ Zur Bluttranfusion.”