428 mr-JOINT DISEASE IN CHILDREN. lie has to lie up, or when, from the flexed position of the limb he is unable to get about, that the surgeon is consulted. Complete rest may be enjoined, but even with the best intentions we find it in many families impossible to ensure this condition, for a sick child kept in bed requires the constant supervision of an adult. Finally the parents make up their minds to bring the child up to the hospital. Now, if the hospital be wholly, or in part, arranged for the reception of children treatment may be very efficient; but if the child be placed in a ward with many other patients, the effect on him may be highly injurious. Young children bear a trans- plantation of this nature but ill, and are less able to stand a pro- longed residence in hospital than adults. How often has it been my lot in Zurich to see patients, who, by means of good food and nursing in the well-arranged and airy Zurich hospital, became certainly somewhat fatter, but yet continued pale and sickly. If discharged and sent back for a time to a wretched home and poverty, where the conditions seemed far less favourable than in hospital, they nevertheless frequently came back to me after but a short time with healthy colour and in good spirits. Although the causes cannot be traced, this ill effect of living in hospitals, which is not absent from even the best arranged institutions, shows its influence especially on children. To keep little ones suffering from joint disease in hospital for months at a stretch must always be of doubtful benefit to them. The usual well-known remedies should be employed which tend to improve the strength and the general condition, but the main treatment resolves itself into rest, and keeping the leg extended. "When the limb is in good position and shows no tendency to alter for the worse, no special apparatus is required, beyond one •or two sand bags laid along the leg and foot so as to prevent movement. If in (florid) coxitis the thigh is flexed in an abnormal position, it may either be forcibly restored by traction, or slowly remedied by extension. Both methods have advantages and dis- advantages and are applicable to different cases. If under an anaesthetic, the thigh falls of itself into a tolerably natural position, and offers no resistance, the contraction of the muscles is only due to the pain. In such cases it will usually be found best, while the patient is still under the anaesthetic, to put the limb in a wire splint and plaster bandage. For the latter to be really effectual, it should reach from close above the ankle to the perineum, and