CHRONIC DISEASES OF JOINTS. 369 died of phthisis sixteen months and four years respectively after the operation. Chronic Diseases of the Joints of the Upper Extremity. In tabulating these cases I excepted superficial ulcerations, chronic hydrops of the joints, chronic rheumatic diseases, slight cases of synovitis, and cases of necrosis, as well as those in which ankylosis resulted. I find thus, that between 1860-76, 231 cases came under treatment, 134 of whom were men and 97 women. These figures may be partly explained by the fact that in Vienna, as also in Zurich, more beds were set apart for males; but on the whole the numbers give a good general idea of the proportionate prevalence of these diseases in the two sexes. These figures are the more striking when we consider that my statistics show that caries of the shoulder and of the elbow-joint more frequently occurs in females. I can hardly account for this, unless on the supposition that severe arm work is more injurious in the female than in the male sex. The different parts of the upper extremity are diseased in very different numerical proportions; thus, out of my whole list of cases (231) the scapula was affected only in four cases, and the clavicle but once; while the arm, and the elbow downwards inclusive, were affected in no less than 199 instances. The elbow-joint is the part most frequently diseased, probably because it is more exposed to injury, and perhaps also in part because the growth of bone here is greatest, and the disease—as' my tables show—generally attacks individuals in whom bony growth is going on actively. Poly-articular Chronic Rheumatic Affection of the Joints (Arthritis deformans) . Of six cases of this disease, the shoulder-joint was principally affected in two, the wrist in two, the elbow-joint in one, while in one the finger-joints were chiefly involved. All these patients were recommended thermal baths. Inflammation of the shoulder-joint. The following case is worthy of mention on account of the 24