104 KHJNOPLASTIC OPERATIONS. ■follow by first intention, the ultimate result was good. Two years later she had no recurrence, and was able to breathe well through the nose. These two cases were so far peculiar that in both a considerable portion of the cheek was destroyed as well as the nose. In such instances the surgeon may proceed in different ways. Formerly, it was the rule to make the flaps from the forehead of such shape and size that they covered the whole of the defect. The result of this usually was that the new nose did not fit well where the flap from the forehead passes over to the cheek. I have preferred therefore, in such cases, after complete excision of the diseased part, to commence by closing the defect in the cheek, leaving then only a raw surface, suitable for the application of the new nose. This is covered from the forehead in the ordinary way. In order to close the defect in the cheek, the skin must be drawn over after that horizontal incisions have been made, either above, below, or on both of these places. In this way a flap, with a broad base externally, can be obtained, or else, according to the form and situation of the gap, a flap from the cheek must be made with its base either directed upwards or downwards. If made in the latter way the parts are apt to remain cedematous for a long time; in all cases the defect in the cheek should be closed in such a way that there is no tension or lateral traction on the edges of the wound to which the skin forming the nose is applied. B. U—, set. 58. Six years before admission a knot, the size of a lentil, appeared on the left ala of the nose, which during the next five years grew but slowly; it scabbed over, and at times bled. The year following, the ulcer began to increase more rapidly. On admission, almost the entire nose, and a portion of the upper lip below the septum was destroyed by the superficial cancer of the skin. The whole ulcerated surface was cut away, and a rhinoplastic operation from the forehead performed. The skin of the forehead was rather thin. The pedicle was formed at the upper part of the inner palpebral angle. As far as appearance went, the result was not good, ■for, from the thinness of the skin and subsequent shrinking, the nose was not sufficiently prominent, The condition was but little improved by sub- sequent operation. In rhinoplastic from the forehead, I prefer to make the pedicle as deep as possible, and find it best to use the skin in the neigh- bourhood of the glabella. By this method the cicatrix of the fore- head is smaller and shorter than when the pedicle of the flap is taken from above the eyebrow; if the pedicle be cut thick, the greatest care must be exercised not to miscalculate the length of the