ENCHONDROHA OF PELVIS : REMOVAL. 333 artificial anus, lie begged most earnestly to be spared from this, and reminded me of my promise to operate, before it was too late. On tbe 3rd February, 1869, I performed tbe operation—tbe boldest and most extensive that I have ever undertaken. The anatomical conditions were as follows :— On the anterior surface of the ascending ramus of tbe ischium, and reaching from this point to the obturator foramen, was situated a tumour of bony hardness, equal in size to the skull of a child five years old. The base of the tumour, where it was connected to the pelvis, I estimated to be about the breadth and shape of the section of a strong man’s forearm just above the wrist. The tumour was covered by the adductor and the pectineus muscles. The movements of the right leg were more or less limited in eveiy direction. The whole of the time pelvis was filled up by an exceedingly hard growth, which however did not project above a line drawn from the last lumbar vertebra to the pelvis. By palpation through the abdominal wall, the tumour was felt to be spherical in form. The rectum was pushed quite over to the left side and was impervious three or four inches above the anus. I was unable to make out positively whether the pelvic tumour had developed from the right side, but judging from the position of the rectum and bladder, it seemed probable ; indeed, in planning the operation, I started from the idea (subsequently confirmed) that the tumour within the pelvis possessed an attachment corresponding to that of the extra-pelvic growth. If the growth proved to be a chondroma (the most usual form of these tumours) it would be possible to remove the inner tumour with a blunt-pointed resection knife ; in any case, a portion of the ascending ramus of the ischium could be removed without interfering with the power of walking. If the growth turned out to be an osteoma, it could certainly be cut away by means of the chain saw and chisel. If the extra- corresponded to the intra-pelvic tumour in its [attachments, the obturator artery, I judged, must be displaced upwards and outwards. The more I considered the whole matter the more I felt encou- raged to operate. The extensive suppuration in the pelvic cavity that was bound to follow the operation gave me cause for great anxiety, for even were our best, anticipations realised as far as the operation was concerned, yet the unfavourable conditions, due to the situation of the wound, were such that the risk of pyaemia or septicaemia proving fatal was inevitably great. And so it came to pass. 1 lie patient being placed in the lithotomy position, the external tumour was easily exposed by an incision made parallel with the adductors. The growth proved to be a chondroma and was easily removed from tbe pelvis with the resection knife. I then made an incision on the inner edge of the ascending ramus of tbe pubes and was easily ablo to separate the capsule from the intra-pelvic tumour; then, passing my hand into the pelvis, I severed the tumour from its peripheral attachments, and was able to convince