245 STRANGULATED UMBILICAL HERNIA. up but imperfectly. He had noticed also for half a year that the right testis, which was always rather higher than the left, had gradually increased in size, though without giving any pain. However, he had never submitted to any treatment for this complaint. About eighteen hours before admission he was attacked with violent pain in the lower part of the abdomen; he sent for a medical man, who gave him a mixture. The griping pains diminished after this, but still persisted in the right side in the neighbourhood of the hernia. The patient lost appetite, and on the morning of admission he had severe vomiting. When admitted he had an inclination to vomit. All the symptoms seemed to point to strangulated hernia, although it was noticeable that the right testis could not be properly separated from the hernial tumour. Taxis was tided ineffectually. Herniotomy was performed and the hernial sac was found to contain only the strangulated testis, degenerated to a soft pulp. This was removed and recovery followed. Umbilical hernia. A stout, strong woman, mt. 54, was admitted with a moderate-sized hernia, which had been strangulated for twenty-six hours. She had no particular pain, and the case was not at first regarded as serious. Taxis was tried in- ! effectually after she had been in a bath for an hour, and then, under an anae- sthetic, herniotomy was performed. The hernia consisted of a loop of intestine completely gangrenous, and a portion of the omentum of a reddish grey colour. I did not replace the omentum, hut merely laid bpen the intes- tine. For the first two days all went on well, hut then vomiting and disten- sion began; very little escaped from the artificial opening in the intestine, and nothing at all passed by the rectum. Death followed four days after the operation. At the post-mortem examination, the coils of intestine lying in the umbilical region were found extensively matted together, as well as to the omentum and the abdominal wall. The strangulated portion of intestine was so much bent upon itself that the escape of faeces at the artificial open- ing was materially interfered with, even after the operation. Strangulated Hernia. (Z. B.) The number of herniotomies has diminished from year to year^ since the more extended employment of chloroform has allowed increased facilities for taxis. In sixteen cases o( herniotomy1 for strangulated inguinal hernia, attempts were made to replace the gut in every instance without opening the sac; in one instance only, that of a woman, did the endeavour succeed. In one case it was found impossible to reduce 1 At Zurich.