SARCOMA OP THE HEAD. 45- after this. The bone surface granulated without exfoliation. In twelve weeks the wound healed, but then a new growth appeared in the neck and soon after in the cicatrix. In the spring of 1S62 the recurrent growth was again operated on, this time by caustic arrow-heads. He grew weaker, and finally died of marasmus, after intense suffering. There was a perforation of the skull the size of a florin. The entire duration of the disease from the commencement was twenty-four years. Microscopically the tumour was found to be a highly granular fibro-sarcoma.1 Melanotic alveolar sarcoma of the head. S. S—, set. 53. When 43 years old a tumour developed in the left parietal region after an attack of erysipelas of the head. Three years later the growth was removed, when it had attained the size of a chestnut. The patient was unable to inform us whether it was then at all black. For four years after this there was no recurrence, but then a nodule developed in the cicatrix, which was removed seven years after the first operation. It was then the size of a hen’s egg and superficially ulcerated. It proved to be an alveolar melanotic sarcoma.2 * He was seen two years after, and was then in good health, free- from any recurrence of the growth. J. M—, set. 37. Fifteen years before admission a nodule appeared over the left parietal region, which increased so slowly that after three years it was no larger than a hazel nut; at the least irritation the growth became inflamed, so that her medical attendant mistook it for an abscess and made an incision into the swelling. No pus came, but the opening ulcerated, and the growth increased rapidly, and became adherent to the bone. Owing to an attack of erysipelas, operation was postponed. The patient was lost sight of. Osteosarcoma. M—, set. 22, had a tumour the size of an apple behind the left ear, which could not be moved on the bone beneath. Its connection with the temporal bone was sawn through and the growth removed. The tumour consisted, for the most part, of bone as hard as ivory, interspersed with fibro-sarcomatous tissue. She was seen again three years later, and there was then no recurrence. 1 I.e. a spindle-celled sarcoma where the fibrous intercellular substance pre- ponderates. Cf. Billroth, ‘ Surg. Path.5 Hack ley’s Trans., 1877, p. 613. 2 Op. sup. cit., p. 616. The absence of recurrence is remarkable. See a case infra, in Chap. X, Section A.