HYDROCELE WITH THICKENED SAC. 289 Another case which came under my care in Vienna in 1873 did not unfortunately meet with such good success. The man was 56 years of age. He died four days after the operation from septic phlegmonous inflammation of the retro-peritoneal cellular tissue. Hydrocele. In one case of this nature we found a number of spermatozoa which were precipitated in the glass, and showed active movements after a long period of time. An iodine injection was thrown in and the patient recovered. Hydrocele with a much thickened tunica vaginalis. A man, ret. 51, stated that after a blow received when he was veiy young, the right testis became harder and larger than the left. The swelling had slowly increased for ten years previous to admission; three months previously it broke spontaneously. Since that time some thin, purulent fluid had escaped. The tumour was the size of the fist and of almost bony hardness. I made an incision through the skin and with the bone pliers laid open the tunica vaginalis, which was covered on the inner surface with layers of cal- careous deposit; most of these were removed and the rest were thrown off by the subsequent suppuration. Radical Treatment of Hydrocele. (W. B.) Although I have performed the radical operation for hydrocele on 128 patients, my records are so far insufficient that I can only state the exact details in sixty-seven. Of these, the hydrocele was on the right side in thirty-three, on the left in twenty-four, while in ten it was double. It is well known that hydrocele is met with in new- born children, and as the oldest of the patients on whom I operated was seventy-seven, we may fairly say that no age is exempt. My impression is that individuals between the ages of thirty and fifty are most liable to the affection, but formerly I kept no notes on this point, and must leave it to others to confirm or refute my state- ment. Nor can I furnish much information on the etiology of the disease. In the majority of cases the patients are unable to give any minute account of the period of origin. By dint of cross-exa- mination we can sometimes make out that there was a blow or 19