248 STRANGULATED APPENDIX C2E0I. FEMORAL HERNIA. pregnancy, the hernia became incarcerated, and she had. symptoms of ileus and severe peritonitis. Gangrene of the gut followed, leading to the forma, tion of a fiecal abscess at the umbilicus, through which subsequently all the faces passed. In spite of this terrible mishap, she was delivered at the proper time of a healthy child. The facal fistula remained, however, after the confinement, in the same condition as before. Dr. Menzel succeeded, after repeated careful examinations, in discovering the upper and lower openings in the intestine and determining the position of the intermediate portion with such accuracy that we were able to apply the enterotome. After four hours, however, the instrument had to be removed, owing to the severity of the pain. A week later the enterotome was again applied; it came away in twenty-four hours and a few shreds of tissue were found between the blades ; five days later it was again applied; in the evening severe abdominal pain occurred, which, however, was completely relieved by morphia injections. During the next three days, the instrument was applied more firmly, again giving much pain, which did not last long. Five days after the iast application the enterotome came away, enclosing a portion of mucous membrane. The fistula was then carefully closed by a pad and compress, and three days later the first natural motion passed which she had had for eleven years. When she was discharged a few days later, the fistula was very small and nothing escaped from it. A few months later it had completely closed. One remarkable case, where the processus vermiformis degene- rated into a cyst, was strangulated, is described by Dr. Wolfler in the ‘Arch. f. kl. Chir./ Bd. xxi, p. 43a.1 Femoral Hernia. In two cases, where simple taxis was successful in reducing the hernia, a fatal result ensued. In one of the patients, rapid collapse and cyanosis came on four hours after the taxis. Post mortem : it was found that the intestine had been torn at the strangulated part. The hernia had been strangulated for five days; the symptoms were not particularly severe, there was no peritonitis and the hernia gave scarcely any pain. Very moderate taxis was sufficient, without the use of any anaesthetic. Death was due to faecal extravasation into the abdominal cavity. In the other case, the patient was admitted with severe peritonitis. The hernia was very easily replaced, but the vomiting persisted, and the patient died of col- lapse fourteen hours after the taxis. Post mortem: the case was 1 Mr. Pick 1ms recorded a similar case which occurred in his practice at St. George’s Hospital, in the ‘Lancet,’ No. xxi, vol. i, 1880, p. 801. [Ed.]