351 PARALYSIS AFTER FRACTURE. the length of muscle lying above the point of application of the electrode; if, for instance, the electrode were applied to the dorsum of the affected hand, the extensors contracted more powerfully than when the application was made to the extensor aspect of the fore- arm. This latter phenomenon cannot be readily explained. The fact that contraction only took place on the application of the electrodes to both arms must be taken as a proof of the great dimi- nution of muscular irritability. No benefit was derived from this second course of galvanism. As in this case, the distribution of the median nerve was affected as well as that of the musculo-spiral, it was decided to investigate the condition of the former nerve. To all appearance, however, it was found to be perfectly unaltered. A thin plate of glass was then laid under the nerve after it had been exposed in order to ensure its more complete isolation. The pole of a rotatory electrical appa- ratus, and subsequently the constant current, was applied directly to the trunk of the nerve; one of the flexors of the thumb con- tracted faintly. On employing the nerve-muscle current the mus- cles contracted rather more. A little piece of muscular tissue was taken from the pronator teres and examined, microscopically; the fibrillm were found to be rather thinner than usual, but the stria- tion was perfectly distinct. The wound was then closed and healed up rapidly; the child left the hospital unimproved in the matter of the paralysis. Inasmuch as in this case there was no direct injury to the nerve the symptoms must be ascribed to reflex paralysis—a condition of rare occurrence. O. K—, a boy, ret. 8, was brought to me with an obliquely united fracture of the humerus of six weeks’ standing, and paralysis of the musculo-spiral nerve. The latter bad been noticed when the bandages were removed. I broke down the callus, which was tolerably soft, put the arm straight and applied a fresh bandage which was removed a month later. By means of faradisation, the function of the hand began to improve and in the course of three months, the paralysis had almost disappeared. J• G > ffit. 41, came up to the hospital with paralysis of the musculo- spiral nerve, which had been noticed soon after a fracture of the forearm, sus- tained four months previously. Faradisation was pursued regularly for two months and the functions of the hand were somewhat improved. It would appear that the prospect of recovery in paralysis of the