35G MULTIPLE PYiEMIA: RECOVERY. always capable of great extension in moving the limb, and it is therefore possible that the mechanical condition of the joint materially improved. Unfortunately, the patient did not come up to see me again. Secondary amputation of the forearm—multiple pyaemia—recovery. Joseph Z—, set. 29, a house-porter, was wounded, during a quarrel, by a cook’s knife on the forehead and forearm. The wound on the forehead was about an inch long, and had sliced off a thin layer of bone. On the dorsal side of the right forearm was a wound a quarter of an inch hi length, extending down to the cellular tissue, and over the wrist another small wound ; these were all united by sutures, and healed for the most part by first intention. Subsequently, however, swelling began in the neighbourhood of the wounds, the union gave way, and suppuration followed. Under wet compresses, the swelling and redness of the forehead disappeared, but that of the forearm increased, in spite of constant applications of ice. Ten days after the injury, a splinter of glass, an inch in length, was removed from the wound in the forehead, and two days later, a second fragment. The patient supposed that these had got into the wound while he was being dragged along the ground. On the eleventh day a severe rigor occurred; during the next six days he had six more (temp, up to 104°). In the meanwhile the swelling in the forearm increased, and extended up above the elbow. Incisions were made, and some ill-smelling, dirty pus let out. After the sixth rigor, the patient sub- mitted to operation, which previously he had obstinately refused, and circular amputation was accordingly performed at the middle of the upper arm. The tissues cut were apparently healthy; the haemorrhage was restrained by six acupressure needles, one suture only was applied, and open treatment adopted. From this time the rigors ceased. Five days after the amputation he coughed up some spherical lumps of purulent matter, and had stabbing pains in the left side of the thorax ; ten days later, there was marked pleuritic effusion on the right side, followed after five days by haemorrhagic diarrhoea which lasted for several days. The purulent sputa continued for about a month ; the wound then gradually healed, and in about ten weeks the patient left the hospital recovered. This remarkable case shows that recovery may follow after severe multiple pysemic poisoning. The patient had had six very severe rigors, and the copious, purulent sputa, occurring in the form mentioned, made the existence of abscess in the lungs highly probable, although no elastic tissue •could be found in the expectorated matter. Unquestionably he had pleurisy of the left side which was probably set up by the abscesses