DOUBLE CARCINOMA DURING PREGNANCY. 215 rapid affection of the lymphatic glands, and the typical glandular form of the large cylindrical cells and cell-globules in other parts of the tumours,1 seem to put it beyond question that the growths were true, rapidly growing mammary cancers. I can only suppose that these tumours represent a very intimate combination of carci- noma and sarcoma, with abundant epithelial proliferation, and metamorphosis of the stroma into the tissue of richly pigmented alveolar sarcoma. Frau M—. set. 68, liad observed a tumour of tbe right breast for two years, which originated just below and external to the nipple. She had ten children, hut had nursed none of them herself; menses regular from fourteen to fifty-three year’s of age. Beneath the right eye there was a dark blue nodule, the size of a lentil, which was stated to he congenital; her brother had a similar mark in the same situation; in the neighbourhood of the supra-spinous fossa she had another of these little dark nodules, also congenital. The patient was a spare, pale woman. On admission, the light mamma was the size of a child’s head, hard, and united to the sldn. A bunch of glands could he felt in the axilla; the entire tumour was removed, the operation being a very extensive one. Three months later the patient was discharged with the wound healed, hut a small, bluish nodule infiltrating the skin had appeared on the right side of the hack. Notwith- standing repeated persuasion, she declined to have this removed. The nodule developed into a tumour, and others originated in its neighbourhood; the immediate vicinity of the scar and the cicatrix remained free from disease, and the patient died of marasmus about a year after the operation. Un- fortunately no post mortem was made. The disease altogether lasted four years. Acute double carcinoma of the breast, developing during pregnancy. Frau J—, set. 36, the mother of seven children, gave the following history : —About five weeks previous to admission, she experienced sudden pain and tension in the breasts (very positively ascribed to eating some ice). At the time the breasts were about the normal size, corresponding to the eighth month of pregnancy. From this time both mammary glands increased rapidly in size and hardness. Seven days before she came under me, premature labour had been induced by Prof. Carl v. Braun, and she was delivered of a healthy child. Partui’ition was not attended by any serious haemorrhage. Tbe patient was of a spare frame and very pale ; both breasts were rather larger than a child’s head, semi-spherical, rigid, and covered over by tense, glistening skin, which was discoloured, and allowed the superficial vessels to show through clearly. The skin was so tense that the 1 Op. cit., p. 6ifi.