366 GANGRENE OP FOREARM. came under my care at Zurich. He stated that up to eight days before admission he had been perfectly well, but that then the tips of all his fingers became simultaneously swollen and painful, and scabs formed on them. On the tips of all the fingers we found very firmly-attached scabs and crusts, which on minute investigation proved to be small mummified portions of skin. In addition to this, on several of the fingers, close to the mummified parts, dark blue patches, like extravasations of blood, were seen beneath the epidermis. Wet compresses were applied to the hand. Twelve days later he was attacked with trismus and subsequently with tetanus, of which he died. Nothing abnormal was found in the brain or the membranes of the brain at the post mortem. The aorta was highly atheromatous, and the radial and ulnar arteries considerably thickened. The rest of the body was perfectly natural. Could this have been a case of ergotism? No history of the sort could be made out. Was it a case of senile gangrene of the fingers, or one in which tetanus accidentally supervened? I am unable to decide the point; the less so that the digital arteries were not examined.1 Spontaneous gangrene of the forearm of puerperal origin. I have, unfortunately, only a brief record of this remarkable case. Frau Y—, set. 33, who had previously been a strong, healthy woman, was in the ninth month of pregnancy when the disease commenced. Seventeen days before her admission, she felt pain in the left hand, for which no cause could be assigned. Two days later the entire upper extremity was greatly swollen up to the axilla. Four days after the commencement of the pain, she had a normal and easy confinement. Three days later, the fingers turned blue and then black. The gangrene then spread rapidly up the forearm. The patient had a long journey up to the hospital, and when admitted, I found the left hand, and two thirds of the forearm black and dry ; the skin was leathery and emphysematous. A distinct line of demarcation was seen, which ran round the dorsal aspect in a circular form, and on the volar side a pointed tongue of healthy tissue ran downwards for about half the length of the forearm (like the flap seen on the calf in gangrene from embolism of the popliteal artery.) On the inner side of the upper arm, the tissues of the lower part were infiltrated and reddened, and fluctuation was distinct. The lungs were healthy. There was some sanious discharge from the vagina; the uterus was contracted, the os externum patent, and the portio vaginalis 1 Compare Mr. Thomas Smith’s case of gangrene of the hand in a child, published in the ‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vol. xiii, p. 196. [Ed.]