84 MODE OP PERFORMING RHINOPLASTIC OPERATIONS. and 1876, the lesion wus, in twelve cases, of syphilitic origin ; in one it was due to lupus, and in one to a gunshot wound. In all these cases I formed the nose from the forehead ; gangrene never followed, not even partial destruction of the septum or aim of the nose. So far as I can remember this was also the case after rhinoplastic operations performed after the removal of cancer. In one case only the flaps, which had been formed from very thin skin taken from the forehead, shrank up so rapidly that I had subse- quently to perform a new rhinoplastic operation, borrowing two flaps from the cheek. One patient died of pyaemia, which com- menced with suppuration in the frontal bone, and ran on to meningitis, thrombosis, and abscesses on the lungs. In another case diphtheritic inflammation attacked the wound in the forehead, but it did not last long. Undoubtedly, the disease arose from some transplanted skin, which had been taken from a leg amputated on account of caries. My experience of transplantation has not been favourable, and I have completely given up the method in wounds of the face. The pieces of skin transplanted do not usually last, and when they do, they give a sort of mosaic appearance to the scar, and a red cicatricial edge forms around the white transplanted portion of skin. Whether this edge disappears in the course of years I cannot say. I once saw a cicatrix where the skin had been taken from the hand, in which such a mark was very evident several months after the operation. The question not infrequently arises after the removal of cancers extending from the nose over the cheeks, as to whether the gap in the cheek should be covered in by flaps taken from the forehead. The gap might also be closed, by a sliding plastic operation or by flaps, so that only the natural shape of the apertura pyriformis is left. My experience leads me to a decided preference for the latter method, for this gives the best appearance. Directly after the operation I introduce a thick gutta- percha tube into the nasal cavity, as far up as the infundibulum, and insert some charpie, so as to keep the apex of the nose and the aim in good position from the first. This is better than the old plan of plugging up the nose with charpie, for the patients are able at once to breathe through the newly-formed nose. Tor the first few days the tubes are syringed out several times in the twenty- four hours; after the fourth day they are changed; after this they are changed daily. I usually employ the gutta-percha tubes throughout, and do not introduce any lead or other rigid tubes. If