CANCER OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE, ETC. PAROTID TUMOURS. Ill the affected individual be predisposed to it by hereditary causes, age, etc., whether such predisposition be considered chiefly local or general. Incidental causes are always inquired into, but compara- tively seldom can anything definite be discovered ; thus, in my list of cases repeated attacks of erysipelas, injuries, blows, burns, irri- tation from stumps of teeth, cicatrix of an abscess, and the like, are given as the causes of origin. Of eighty-nine cases, I have myself examined post mortem eighteen, and have never found any cancer in the internal organs. This, as contrasted with my former experiences at Berlin, appears to me worthy of remark. In one case, besides a superficial epithelial cancer, I found a contracted carcinoma of the breast. Investigations as to the hereditary tendency to cancer or a “ tumour diathesis ” were exceedingly difficult, inasmuch as in Zurich, among the common people, the term “ tumour ” is used indiscriminately to signify furuncle, abscess, swelling of the joints, etc., so that I can give no reliable information on this point. , Very peculiar forms of sarcoma are met with in the salivary glands, and the diagnosis often presents great difficulties, which can only be cleared up by very careful examination under the microscope. Even with this aid pathologists do not always agree. Difficult questions often arise, such as a differential diagnosis between alveo- lar plexiform sarcoma, and carcinoma. I will only consider for the moment the parotid gland. In these cases, many clinical symptoms have to be taken into account to assist our diagnosis. I never hesi- tate to pronounce a parotid tumour to be carcinomatous when it is absolutely immovable, hard and ulcerated, and when the cervical lymphatic glands are affected. In small tumours of the parotid region (say up to the size of a hen’s egg), occurring in persons on the wrong side of forty, the immobility, pain, cicatricial contraction in the growth, facial paralysis, etc., would lead me to judge that the case is one of carcinoma. Most of these tumours of the parotid gland1 are myxo-sarcomata, or cnchondromata, the latter being sometimes cystic. In the great majority of cases facial paralysis follows after the operation. In only one case (that of a rapidly growing granulation sarcoma), which uas not operated upon, was it due to the pressure of the tumour. 1 hen the trunk of the nerves was cut through in the parotid the pai alysis was permanent. In those cases where single branches only These icmarks refer to the cases under observation and treatment between i860—1876.