495' ICTERUS : DILATATION OE STOMACH. Preparatory treatment before operation. It is easy enough to decide that a case is suitable for operation when the cancer of the pylorus is freely movable, but it is very difficult to give an opinion when the carcinoma is partly fixed. The fact that only a part of the stomach is accessible to palpation, and that the organ is held in place by numerous peritoneal con- nections, often make it difficult to say whether the mobility is that of the entire viscus or of the tumour alone. Again, the cancer may be movable to some extent, owing to its being adherent to neighbour- ing organs, such as the colon, or even the liver, which themselves are not firmly fixed. Indeed, one of our cases showed that a certain amount of mobility may be present when the cancer is connected to the pancreas. Icterus, when the cancer is movable,, might be due to accidental catarrhal affection, but when this sym- ptom is present we should generally suspect hepatic cancer, or pres- sure on the gall-duct by extension of the cancer on to the pancreas or into the neighbouring lymphatic glands. Judging from our second case, adhesions of the cancer to the abdominal walls do not seem to absolutely contraindicate operation, unless of course the patient be highly marasmic, or the tumour very large. We need not be deterred from operating even by very marked emaciation, for gastric cancer unfortunately con- sumes the strength with great rapidity, aud thus the patients are rarely strong when they come under observation. In order to estimate the extent of the cancer and the degree of mobility, it is always better to examine under an anesthetic. Considerable diffi- culty will be experienced when the pyloric cancer is associated with dilatation of the stomach. Dilatation in our second case was the principal reason for the fatal issue. It will always be well, there- fore, to estimate the dimensions of the stomach when it is distended artificially with carbonic acid gas by the administration of bitartrate of potash and carbonate of soda. One of the cases (No. i) shows well that the pyloric sphincter is not absolutely necessary for the function of the stomach after resection ; but it may be otherwise when the resection has been performed upon a dilated stomach. When the stomach is able to contract well, the office of the sphincter pylori can be replaced in great measure by the muscular coats of the stomach, which may be able to prevent regurgitation, of