COMPLICATED CASES OE AMPUTATION. 475 the older method which I had learned from my teachers, of sewing up the wound closely without draining it. II. In this second class are tabulated cases (15 in number) in which the patients died in the hospital from diseases which were not directly connected with the operation wound. Nearly all these deaths were due to tuberculosis of the lungs. (B.) Complicated Cases. I. Operations on patients already the subjects of septic infection. —Under this head are tabulated 69 cases, of whom 55 died and 14 recovered, showing a mortality of 797 per cent. It is important to separate these cases from the principal tables of amputation. Bor example, cases are included in this class where resection had been performed, and then pyaemia having occurred, amputation was resorted to, or where at the earnest entreaty of patients large tumours had been removed from the extremities, and then amputation was performed on account of gangrene and sepsis; others also in which patients with caries became pyaemia after examination of their wounds, and amputation was performed as a last resource. The majority of cases in this group, however, are those of injuries or phlegmonous inflammation, in which amputation was performed, too late. I am aware that in many cases I did not recognise the danger sufficiently early, but a large proportion came under my treatment too late, and in many instances my hands were already tied. I never performed operations without the express consent of the patients, or in the case of children, of their parents or guardians. While in Switzerland I could not converse with the patients in their own dialect, and in Vienna I very often was unable to understand their language, except through the medium of an interpreter. It will be understood, then, that my power of over-persuading the patients was not very great, even when the operation was most urgent. Added to this, individuals of the working classes to whom amputation is proposed, not infrequently, after calm, and rational reflection, prefer rather to die than to live crippled and unable to work—a point of view which, as a surgeon one cannot take, but which I cannot but bold is amply justified. These folk have often so little pleasure in life that they do not find it hard to part with it. This is especially the case in Vienna, where suicides arc exceedingly common. Often, too, the sufferer