292 CHRONIC ORCHITIS AND IMPOTENCE. separate divisions. The lymphatics pass separately out of each division to the spermatic cord, through the corpus highmori, so that the lymph of the venous blood and the secretion of the gland all flow out in the same direction. It is more difficult to explain the formation of nodules in the epididymis. I think that the irritating effusions are stored up here and there with the lymph in the lymphatics; these latter are—like the veins—much convoluted, being often bent on themselves and forming loops, and from them the irritation spreads to the surrounding parts. So far as I know, it has not yet been proved that these nodules in the epididymis are •composed of miliary tubercle. Traumatic, functional, or infective irritation may give rise to the formation of such nodules : of this I have no doubt. In tuberculous subjects the condition very rarely gets well of itself. On the other hand, we can hardly presume that the tuberculous diathesis exists in cases where such nodules are found in a strong healthy man without any family history of tubercular disease. If there has not been any previous gonorrhoeal or syphilitic infection, or any traumatic cause, we shall be left completely at a loss to determine the etiology. The patients are rarely able to give any minute information about the origin and gradual increase of this affection. The nodules pass unnoticed at the outset, and often remain for years without any alteration after they first attracted attention. Softening and enlargement is nearly always a sure sign that the growth is about to suppurate and break through, but the process may take months to accomplish. Very frequently two or three of these nodules, varying in size from a bean to a walnut, form close to each other; not infrequently the disease attacks both glands. If I meet with indolent nodules of this description in subjects otherwise healthy, I adopt no treatment and advise the patients not to trouble about the matter. If some remedy be thought necessary I prescribe iodine inunctions or compresses soaked in Lotio Plumbi. I have never seen these nodules disappear spon- taneously and consider them incurable. Once only, at the urgent request of a patient, I removed a growth of this description, although it was neither softened nor ulcerated. The patient—a strong man—had become impotent; he was informed by his medical attendants that the condition was due to the pressure of the nodules on the vas deferens. In such cases, simple pressure on the vas is but rarely met with: far more frequently the larger