9 CARBOLURIA. had been absorbed. We should more properly conclude that, in such a case the carbolic acid was not excreted at all, or, at any rate, in quantities too small to colour the urine green. Again, in such an individual the substance might not be excreted through the kidneys, but through the intestines, skin, or lungs. People are in the habit of looking upon all such matters as being far simpler than they really are. Undue stress is laid upon the amount of the poison absorbed. I grant that here, also, idiosyn- crasies should be taken into account, but it must not be forgotten that these may be the very causes that explain the diverse capa- bility of excretion. One case was under my observation (a case of empyema, in which i per cent, carbolic solution was allowed to run through the pleural cavity for twenty-four hours), in which the urine was still green fourteen days after the carbolic had been dis- continued. In this patient not only had the carbolic acid been entirely abandoned, but thymol had been substituted with the best results. This case also showed that carbolic acid may sometimes be retained in the body for a long period; it might, therefore, not unreasonably be supposed that this substance acts as a cumulative poison on the organism. True, the most eminent toxicologists hold that it has no such effects, yet such would have been the case in the above instance had I persevered in the use of the acid. No doubt the experience of other surgeons coincides with my own, in the observation that the green colour of the urine (and the other toxic symptoms also) occurs at varying periods of time after opera- tions performed under carbolic spray and the use of Lister’s gauze dressings. Sometimes forty-eight hours elapse before these sym- ptoms are observed, sometimes they are evident after a few hours. Slow absorption and slow excretion are naturally associated. If the green colour of the urine depends upon the amount of sul- phuric acid contained in the organism, as we are assured by the chemists it does, then a further important point must be taken into account, viz. the quality of the food. Now, this is very different in different countries. I was greatly struck by the fol- lowing extract from the journa. of my assistant, Dr. Wolfler :— “ It is very remarkable that alt] ough Lister, in dressing wounds, lays gauze soaked in per cent, carbolic solution over the pro- tective, he has never seen any ill effects from the carbolic acid. In a case of chronic abscess opened and treated antiseptically (the first case so treated by him in London) the urine, to Lister’s great