452 FEMORAL ANEURISM : LIGATURE. remittent fever and some severe illness, which lasted for nine months. He had been at his work as a bricklayer up to four weeks before his admission. At that time, without any known cause, he was attacked with severe pain in the thigh, which at first became markedly swollen, and then cold, as if lifeless. A swelling the size of a child’s head appeared about the centre of the right thigh, on the inner aspect of the limb; this was thought to bo a spurious aneurism, resulting from the rapture of an artery. Digital com- pression was employed at first, but without success, as the patient could not stand the pressure. I then ligatured the femoral artery immediately above the aneurism. For two weeks all went on well, but then symptoms of disturbance in the circulation of the leg became manifest, and eventually gangrene set in. The thigh was amputated high up, and recovery followed. The diagnosis was verified by the examination of the limb. “ An immense sac, partly gangrenous; femoral artery in paid calcified and in it a longi- tudinal rent five lines in length.” Johann B—, set. 37. This patient had suffered for two years from vague rheumatic pains. Fourteen days before admission into the hospital he expe- rienced sudden pain in the thigh, and shortly afterwards, a small, hard swelling was noticed in the part. When admitted the swelling was the size of a goose egg, and presented all the characteristics of aneurism. Digital compression was employed, and ice applied; the tumour, however, increased and the patient began to lose strength. I then ligatured the artery close beneath Poupart’s ligament. The ligature came away in thirteen days; secondary haemorrhage took place for which it was found necessary to secure the artery above and below the seat of ligature. Death followed from ex- haustion. The post-mortem appearances exactly resembled the case above mentioned. Traumatic aneurism of the femoral artery. Antylluis operation. Franz L—, set. 19. Six weeks previously he had received a wound in the left thigh from a sharp butcher’s knife. Severe bleeding occurred at the time, which ceased only when the patient fainted. He placed himself under the treatment of a barber. The haemorrhage recurred on three occasions up to the date of admission ; the patient was then much reduced and pale, with a small weak pulse ; the lower extremity was swollen, especially on the lower and anterior aspect of the thigh, where was situated a tense, highly elastic swelling, soft and “boggy” at several points. In the line of the sartorius was seen a partially united incised wound over the lower half of the thigh. The patient was anaesthetised, and the artery being compressed just under Poupart’s ligament, I made an extensive incision through the soft parts, over the saidorius. A coagulum, the size of a child’s head, was turned out and the artery exposed at the bottom of the wound. An incised wound, three lines in length, longitudinal in direction, was seen on the vessel. The vessel was ligatured half an inch above and below the wound. In spite of firm pressure some bleeding still took place, which was not finally controlled till