TREATMENT OP FRACTURED FEMUR. 389 •arrangement of splints was applied at first, aud the following day a plaster bandage over an ample layer of wadding. Two days after the injury, I was struck by the white appearance of the projecting part of the foot, and had the bandage cut off. The blood in the subcutaneous veins of the leg was, however, completely stationary, and the skin up to the knee was devoid of all sensa- tion. I supposed that the femoral artery had been injured by the fracture, and had become extensively thrombosed ; gangrene of the leg followed, and it was some time before the line of demarcation was distinct. The patient was already suffering from septic poisoning when I amputated the thigh high up, and he died a few days later of pyaemia. The femoral artery was found to be completely torn through three inches above the hollow of the knee; the edges of the rent were ragged and rough. A long thrombus extended upwards and downwards. In all probability this had formed very rapidly and prevented the development of a traumatic aneurism. It is well known to every surgeon that in bad fractures of the femur the displacement cannot be completely corrected by any plan of treatment. Careful attention and frequent changing of the plaster bandage will do much to diminish the shortening. The best method of applying plaster bandages in fractures of the thigh and in coxitis has been so excellently described by Roser, Volkmann, •C. Weber, Liicke, and others, that I can add nothing to what they have said. During 1869-1870 some fractures of the femur in my clinic •were treated by plaster-of-Paris bandages, others by extension. The number of my cases (14) was too small to enable me to give any decided opinion as to the advantages of one method over the other; still, I may say that extension alone is sufficient in most cases of fractured femur, but that if the displacement be very considerable, it is but little more effective than the plaster bandage. Plaster bandages were applied over the knee, and beneath the calf of the leg from about the commencement of the tendo-Achillis. Whether the plaster was applied over wadding or flannel, or next to the skin made no difference in one respect; within eight days the bandage invariably became so loose that it was drawn down by the weight to the heel, and if care were not taken, it was liable to cause ulceration about the malleoli. A very slight weight can be used with the plaster bandage, five pounds at the outside ; the bandage should be changed about every eighth day. On the whole, I far prefer extension by means •of ordinary strapping; this I apply generally on Volkmann's plan, as follows: An ordinary Petit's boot is applied, reaching up to the bam : on to this a square plate of wood is screwed, and extension