205 MELANOTIC SAECOMA. Melanotic small-celled and spindle-celled sarcoma. E. G—, set. 42. Two years previously she had noticed an excoriation on the left side of the back. Starting from this a tumour of a brownish colour developed, growing at first slowly, then more rapidly. The patient could not state w;hether there had been any previously existing pigmentation at this spot; on no other part of the body were there any such discolourations. When the growth had reached the size of a hen’s egg, it was removed (four- teen months before she came under my care). The wound healed naturally enough, but when she came under observation, the cicatrix was of a brownish colour. Six months before admission, some tumours formed in the left axilla; some months later she had pains in the neighbourhood of the liver, and when admitted pain in the bladder, and pigment in the urine. She died of exhaustion a month after admission. The disease had lasted two years and two months. Post mortem: spindle-celled sarcoma was found in the left axilla, both lungs and pleura, the heart, liver, spleen, kidneys, intes- tine, omentum, urinary bladder, and on the outer surface of the uterus and ovaries. The peritoneum was covered with dark brown pigment hut free from the growths. All the fat of the omentum and mesentery of a dark brown colour; six ounces of brown fluid in the abdominal cavity; pigmentary granules in the blood. Dr. Lehmann examined the pigment, and found in it ulmine (perhaps identical with or an altered form of Stadler’s “bili- humin”).1 Sarcoma of the thoracic walls. In a man, set. 60, thirty-five years previously, a nodule appeared in the skin, close to the left nipple. In the course of ten years it had attained to 1 A somewhat similar case, which is of interest as showing the extraordi- nary tendency to multiplication in some forms of melanotic sarcoma, came lately under the translator’s observation. The patient, a woman, set. 60, was admitted in June 1879, into St. George’s Hospital for a mushroom- shaped growth on the hack. This had developed on a scaly patch which she had had all her life. The growth was removed three months after its com- mencement, and proved, on microscopic examination, to be a melanotic alveolar sarcoma rich in pigment. Three months after removal a tumour appeared in the left axilla, and there was 'evidence of malignant disease of the pleura. Subsequently numerous other malignant nodules made their appearance, and she died of exhaustion, a little over a year after the first tumour was noticed. Post mortem : innumerable small, malignant growths ueie found in almost every part of the body ; some fifty or more were scat- tered about the brain ; about the pleura and peritoneum they were absolutely innumerable. Growths were found about tho pericardium, the endocardium, the pancreas, uterus, liver, and many hundred in. tho subcutanoous tissue of the trunk, the neck, the groins, and arms. In the axilla; and the groins they occupied, obviously, the position of the lymphatic glands. The morbid growth had also recurred in tho cicatrix of operation. [Ed.]