406 AMPUTATION IN GANGRENE. Swiss wine daily, but this is nothing out of the way for the country- women, and even if she had been an habitual drunkard, this would not have accounted directly for the occurrence of the gangrene in so many different parts; in short, the etiology of the case is still inex- plicable to me. In spontaneous gangrene the questions whether amputation should be performed, and what is the right time for the operation, cannot be answered in any general way. The cases must be treated according to circumstances. This much, however, may be said—if the gangrene be due to embolism of the popliteal artery, the best chance for the patient will be to amputate the thigh, close above the knee, as soon as the diagnosis is established, for gangrene of the foot and leg will invariably follow.1 When the gangrene is limited to the toes, it is better not to operate. If the mummification be limited, amputation can be performed through the line of demarcation successfully, if the patient has still strength enough to live for some months or years. A very unfavourable prognosis must be given in moist senile gangrene when the disease extends beyond the toes. Amputation, a little above the line of demarca- tion in the skin, need not be altogether condemned, but it holds out little prospect of success. In symmetrical gangrene—the result of aneemia—the prognosis is so bad that it is better not to operate. Spontaneous gangrene. A man, sat. 55, was admitted with the following history:—For ten years he had suffered from shortness of hreath and palpitation of the heart. Five months previously he had experienced a sudden, severe pain in his right leg. On taking ofE his hoot he found the limb white and almost devoid of sen- sation. Three weeks later, according to his account, “ the leg was bluish- black, and the flesh fell away from his bones.” The leg was then ampu- tated just beneath the line of demarcation in order to get rid of the stench of the gangrenous paiis. From the appearance of the stump and the history of the case, I have no doubt that the gangrene was due to sudden blocking of the popliteal artery, either from embolus or from thrombosis of sponta- neous origin. The hones of the leg projected an inch and a half beyond the stump. In order to improve this I separated a portion of the skin from 1 It may be usoful to bear in mind in amputation for this condition, a point that has already been remarked, viz. that if the line of demarcation be allowed to form, it does so at a much lower level over the calf of the leg than over the lateral and anterior aspects of the limb. The posterior flap, there- fore, should be the longer.—[Ed.]