LITHOLAPAXY. 281 is nothing left. I have heard by letter from patients in whom four weeks after the operation small fragments have come away. In any case we are able to learn by the repeated examinations whether there is anything in the bladder that requires crushing, for stones which cannot be felt, even after repeated sounding, could scarcely be seized with the lithotrite. The operation obviously must be looked upon as completed, when no more fragments can be felt, but still there is always a possibility that we may be deceived, and that the fragments cannot be felt, because they are enclosed in clots of blood, so that there is no ring when they are struck. However, nothing of the sort occurred in any of my cases. I must further state that this method is distinctly deserving of very earnest attention. It is a decided step in advance, and very convenient for the patient, that one sitting only should be necessary instead of three or more; the more so, that the results, as given by Thompson and Bigelow are, on the whole, better than those shown by the earlier methods. In my opinion, if we exclude all severe cases of cystitis and cysto- pyelitis, in which no operation for stone is admissible, the danger does not lie in the formation of pus, nor in the loosening of the mucous membrane and consequently easily excited haemorrhage, but in the strongly ammoniacal contents of the urine which may be free or united with carbonic acid, and secondly, in the. septo- diphtheritic character which such cases generally assume. In a bladder with strongly ammoniacal urine, as is known to pathological anatomists, the lining membrane is much reddened, while on its projections are often seen small shreds of dead tissue, to which fibrinous clots are connected. This makes it appear as though the process were of a diphtheritic nature, and it has also the same character in another respect, viz. that it is highly dangerous for the urine and secretion of the bladder to penetrate into the substance of the mucous membrane, or into the surrounding tissue. It does not matter how this is brought about; it may be due to the in- flammation alone, or the mucous membrane may be defective between the pouches of the rugae, thus allowing some urine to ooze through, or small excoriations may have been caused by the litho- trity; in any case the condition will assume a diphtheritic type, which spreads about the neighbouring cellular tissue. Unhealthy suppuration with a tendency to rapid progress, pericystitis and peri- urethritis may be set up, and these processes assume a virulent