206 REOURBENT SARCOMA OF LONG DURATION. the size of a lien’s egg, and was then removed. For twelve years he was free from recurrence, then a fresh growth appeared close to the scar, which after four years was again removed. For many years after this his health was excellent. Then however, several nodules appeared close to the scar and began to ulcerate. Caustics were applied, and he got quite well. Soon, however, the growth again recurred, and was allowed to attain the size of a man’s head. It was then extirpated by Scliuh, fifteen years before I saw him; the mass removed weighed six pounds. Before the extensive wound had completely healed, small nodules again made their appearance, which were removed three months after the last operation. For fourteen years after this he was perfectly free from any recurrence; the disease then returned in' the cicatrix. He came under my care with a growth about the size of a hen’s egg, from which severe haemorrhage at times took place ; at his earnest request I removed it. Fresh growth and ulceration took place in and about the cicatrix, which extended from the sternum, up over the shoulder, and at last proved fatal. From fii'st to last, the disease had existed for thirty-six and a half years. (The exact histological nature of the growth is not stated. [Ed.]) Section B.—Diseases of the Breast. Case of neuralgia of the breast. Case of hypertrophy. Sub-mammary lipoma, simulating hypertrophy. Involution cyst of mamma. Remarks on acleno-fibroma of the breast. Case of cysto-sarcoma of very sloio growth. Sarcoma developing in both breasts during pregnancy. Remarks on adeno-cysto-sarcoma. Case of melanotic carcinoma combined with alveolar sarcoma. Rouble carcinoma developing during pregnancy. Remarks on cases of cancer occurring at Zurich—at Vienna. Operative treatment of mammary cancer. Riseases of the male breast. Case of chronic induration—of carcinoma. Neuralgia of the left breast. Frau S. C—, set. 58, had suffered from no previous disease of any severity. The menses commenced when she was seventeen, never gave any trouble, and had ceased four years before admission. She had been married thirty years, borne fifteen children, and had nursed four of them herself. When forty-eight years of ago, without any known reason, pains of a shooting, gnawing character, commenced in tho left mammary gland. The menses, which at that time had not ceased, had no influence on the pain. Six years previously she had consulted Scliuh, who gave as his opinion that the pain was of a neuralgic character, and only at the urgent request of the patient consented to remove a great part of the left breast. The pain persisted in