415 ACUTE OSTEOMYELITIS. terminates spontaneously in recovery, or that the patients very frequently survive the acute stage. The great mortality in hospitals among this class of cases may depend upon special conditions, such as, possibly, septic infection supervening after incisions have been made. Trom what I know now of the disease, I see that many of the cases which were entered as acute inflammations of the joint should have been classified with those now under consideration. Of such a nature was the following : S—, set. 19, had an attack of acute articular rheumatism, which she got over without any ill effects. Eight days before admission, the right elbow became painful and moderately swollen; ice Was applied. A peri-articular abscess formed, which was opened four weeks after admission, and it was soon evident that the abscess communicated with the joint. A month later there was grating of the articular extremities, and I excised the joint. The suppuration was profuse and the pus ichorous. Further incisions were found necessary and the patient died of pyaemia, after amputation of the arm, three months after her admission. No cause was assigned for the commencement of the disease. I think it very probable that there was acute osteomyelitis of the lower end of the humerus. The femur was affected in twenty-four cases (males 17, females 7). Eighteen of these patients died. In this category can be included nine undoubted cases occurring in males—aged respectively 8, 16, 17, 18, 22, 29 (2), and in females of 12 and 26. In the following case the lower epiphysis was detached. T. II—, set. 18, a locksmith, was attacked with severe rigors, vomiting, and pain in the right knee of so intense a nature that he could not stand. When admitted, two days later, the presence of acute osteomyelitis was already unquestionable, and it soon became still more marked. The general con- dition was so typically typlius-liko that for the first time on seeing this case, I understood why this disease has been designated “hone typhus” (Knochentyphus). The pains, which were especially severe at night, were relieved by morphia injections. Eight days after the commencement of the disease, fluid was detected deeply situated about a hand’s breadth above the knee-joint. I made an incision with a long, fine knife, and let out some pus mixed with dark blood; the pus was inodorous and free from bacteria ; at the same time I felt the bone denuded of periosteum. I did not enlarge the opening, but ordered wet compresses to bo constantly applied and allowed the secretion to drain away spontaneously. Tho puncture soon closed, but three days later I was forced to extend it for about tlireo inches, and a large