482 TUMOURS OP LYMPHATIC GLANDS. are 171 cases of carcinoma) most frequently affected (257) the upper part of the respiratory and digestive tract. The number attacking the lower portion of the digestive tract (65 of the large intestine, among which are 52 cases of carcinoma) is far smaller. Under the heading “ glands ” (642 tumours) the mamma stands at the head of the list (296 cases, of which 252 were cancer) y next come the thyroid with hi, the ovary with 100, the prostate with 60 (58 being myo-fibromata), and the testis with 27. Among the tumours of tissues composed only of adenoid sub- stance (545)j tumours of the lymphatic glands (lymphoma aud lympho-sarcoma) amount to nearly one half (249). The pro- priety of including this group at all may be objected to in ioto on two grounds—(1) because many of these lymphomata had suppu- rated or become caseous, and should be therefore entered as chronic inflammatory processes, and (2) because, undoubtedly, many of these growths originated deuteropatkically by infection from proto- pathic sources of inflammation, and therefore no more belong to this category than do cancers and sarcomata originating in a similar manner. I myself cannot invalidate these objections, but only state in defence that it was not possible to make a strict separation of lymphomata in this sense. 1 I am decidedly of opinion that primary affections of the lymphatic glands are of very rare occurrence, but as they are the parts which give passage to the fluids of the tissues as they pass on in their centripetal course, a strict separation would only be possible where heteroplastic new formations are found in the lymphatic glands. In 191 cases the loose cellular tissue, the fasciae and the fat were the starting-points of new formations. Lipoma and sarcoma occurred in equal numbers, 66 cases of each being noted. Seventy-eight cases occurred in the periosteum and bones, includ- ing 46 cases of sarcoma, 13 of chondroma, 10 of cystoma (of the jaws), and 9 of osteoma. Cancers of the bones always originate, according to my view, in one of two ways, either by extension of the disease from without, or by metastasis. The latter class is not included here, and the former is tabulated under the heading of the tissue from which it originally started. I have only noticed one case (a peculiar tumour of the muscles, myoma cysticum, f Yirchow's Archiv/ ix), in which 1 could make out from the histological character of the new formation that it had originated directly from striped muscular tissue. I have observed