331 TRANSFUSION : ENOHONDROMA OF PELVIS. sent and seen the occurrence would have had the impression that in this case death was directly caused by the transfusion. The opera- tion had lasted about two hours, and death took place one hour after its termination. The post mortem did not reveal anything further at the seat of operation. With regard to the hanging down of the head, it is interesting to observe that the brain was not particularly anaemic. A point of interest also in connection with the transfusion was that the right side of the heart and the lungs contained a moderate amount of blood, while the left side of the heart was absolutely empty and moderately contracted. It seemed as if the organ had refused the blood which poured into it, and had suddenly become rigid. The organs of the abdominal cavity were all highly anaemic. Panum says that in cases such as these the failure of transfusion and the beneficial effects which, on physiological grounds, might have been expected from it, must be attributed to the antecedent disturbance (erschlitterung) of the nervous system by the operation and the loss of blood. Others are of opinion that the filling of the right side of the heart, which, relatively, always takes place too quickly, accounts for the sudden paralysis of the organ. My im- pression in the above case was that spasm of the heart had some- thing to do with the matter, partly from the suddenness of death, and partly from the post-mortem appearances. Perhaps also the difference in temperature between the injected blood and the tissues of the exsanguine body, had some share in causing death. But let all this be as it may, one fact is clear—that transfusion often fails just when, from all physiological reasonings, we should expect it to have a conspicuous effect.1 Enchonclroma of the pelvis. Removed. A. S , set. 34, consulted me in December, 1S6S, for a large encliondroma on the anterior part of the right side of the pelvis. It appeared that up to the commencement of 1865 ho had always been healthy and strong, but that then he had frequent pains in the right hip, resembling lumbago. The pains soon became very severe, extending to below the knee, and were then Some further highly interesting remarks on the subject of transfusion (an operation not much in favour with Prof. Billroth) will be found in the ‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ Nos. 1, 2 and 3, Jan. 1875. [Ed.]