DISLOCATION OP THE HUMERUS. •352 musculo-spiral after injury, whether with or without fracture, is very small if improvement does not show itself within from three to six months. Whether electricity conduces to recovery is to my mind doubtful, for probably in most cases the lesion consists in direct contusion or stretching of the nerve trunk at the time of the frac- ture. It depends on the degree of severity of these injuries, and on the consequent anatomical changes, whether the regeneration (the capability for which, unfortunately, in man is limited) of the damaged nerve-bundles suffices to restore function or not. The results of paralysis of the peroneal nerve following immediately after sudden straightening of genu valgum, fully confirm these statements. In three cases of paralysis of the musculo-spiral nerve resulting from long-continued use of crutches, the patients—aged respectively twelve, eighteen, and forty-five—recovered completely in about two months under the employment of faradisation, after the use of the nrutches had been forbidden. Dislocation of the humerus. Death. Johann G—, set. 59, a decrepid old man, who had suffered repeatedly from rheumatic inflammation of the joints, while walking carelessly fell into a pit and struck himself on the left shoulder. The joint swelled up and became painful; soon after the injury he had a severe rigor. Six days later, when he came to the hospital, I found the right humerus dislocated forwards and marked swelling about the shoulder, over which the skin was brownish red and emphysematous. The patient was very weak, the pulse small, and temperature low; no fracture of the ribs could be detected. The dislocation was reduced without difficulty. During the next few days, the collection of gas about the joint constantly increased. The swelling lay close under the clavicle and reached up to the axilla; although it was undoubtedly filled with gas and blood I hesitated to make an incision into it for fear that I might open the shoulder-joint. In the man’s condition he could not have survived suppuration of the joint, resection, or exarticulation. The tumour rapidly increased in size, till the skin became as thin as paper; meanwhile, the patient became more and more collapsed. Fourteen days after the injury, I decided on oponing the cavity, which I found full of gas and foul pus ; collapse followed and death took place fifteen days later—about a month after the dislocation. Post mortem : no fracture of the rib could he discovered, so that the case appeals to have been one of those rare instances where the blood extravasated at the time of the dislocation decomposed with generation of gas.