EDITORS PREFACE. VI discard a subject wliicli forms really the backbone of the volumes. But I did so on two grounds. One is, that the statistical tables in question are readily accessible and intelligible in the original work ; another, that without any expression of opinion on my own part, I feel fully the force of a sententious remark made by Prof. Billroth himself—“ So ist die Statistik wie ein Weib, ein Spiegel reinster Tugend und Wahrheit, oder eine Metze fur Jeden, zu Allem zu brauchen.” For the assistance of those who may wish to avail themselves of these admirably compiled statistics, a special chapter (XX) has been inserted containing full references. In a few instances I have added cases or remarks of especial interest which were published separately in various journals and archives, and which are only referred to in the main work. From the same sources I have endeavoured to bring the volume as far as possible up to date by means of short notes describing any recent modifications adopted in operating, etc. Additions have thus been made on the subjects of ovariotomy, litholapaxy, carbolic-acid poisoning, extroversion of the bladder, talipes, and others, all of which will be found in their proper places in the text. The present mode of conducting antiseptic operations in Prof. Billroth's clinic is, briefly, as follows :—Xo spray is used. Carbolic acid is the antiseptic agent employed, in solutions of i, 3, or 5 per cent. The instruments and sponges (especial care being taken with the latter) are rendered thoroughly aseptic. Silk ligatures are found to answer best; the threads are boiled for one hour in 5 per cent, solution of carbolic acid before use. The ends of the ligatures are cut off close to the knot. Unless suppuration takes place, which is of rare occurrence, the ligature knots do not come away. Xo protective is laid on the wound; the first layer of gauze is damp. Before use, the gauze is soaked in the following mixture :—Spirit 3I pints; colofonium 14 oz.; glycerine 3^ oz.; carbolic acid 3^ oz. It is then wrung out and is ready for use almost directly. The entire preparation of the dressings occupies about fifteen minutes. The Lister’s mackintosh is replaced by a special soft, impermeable material of a less expensive nature. The dressings are, as a rule, changed for the first time on the fifth day. The drainage tubes are then removed and the second dressings allowed to remain on for five or six days, at the end of which period the special antiseptic precautions are usually discontinued.