AFFECTION OF THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS IN CANCER. 219 the gland, or in parts where the circulation of lymph is free, or the reverse. In the rare cases where nodules occur to the inner side of the nipple, enlargement of the lymphatic glands certainly takes place later. On the other hand, the glands are attacked with great rapidity—indeed, almost directly—when the nodules are situated on the outer side of and above the nipple. The lymphatic glands of Mohrenheim’s fossa, and those in the subclavian triangle, become affected secondarily, subsequent to the infection of the axillary glands. This is obviously connected with the course of the lymph and depends on purely mechanical con- ditions. Among my forty-nine patients, the condition of the axillary glands was distinctly noticed in thirty-six cases; in twenty-four they were perceptibly diseased before the patients came for operation. In twelve no glands could be felt at the time of operation. In live of these patients, recurrence took place in the glands soon after the operation; undoubtedly germs of the disease existed at the time of operation. Some few patients presented themselves with numerous detached nodules in the skin and muscles about the tumour of the breast. These are the worst class of cases, and the most hopeless from an operative point of view. I was fortunate enough to meet with them but rarely at Zurich. No estimate whatever can be formed of the period of time at which internal cancer is likely to occur after the development of primary tumours of the mamma and the axillary glands. Visceral disease was found in one case, in which the breast was affected eight months previously, and was absent in another, where the affection had existed at least twenty-two months. Carcinoma of the ribs, the substance of the heart, the pleura or the lungs, un- questionably originates from the direct passage of cancerous elements through the lymphatic vessels. It is remarkable that the development of nodules in the pleura comparatively seldom causes pain or effusion. In fourteen cases I had an opportunity of examining, post mortem, women whom I had had under observation for cancer of the breast. In many cases where there was no autopsy it was possible to make a positive diagnosis during life. My experience with regard to in- ternal cancer may be summarised as follows:—Twice no internal cancer whatever was found. In six cases nodules were found in both pleurae and lungs; the ribs and the external surface of the