RETRO-PERITONEAL ABSCESS. 323 Pelvic Abscess without any apparent Disease op the Ver- tebral Column or Bones of the Pelvis.1 Altogether I have seen twenty cases of this description—fourteen of which occurred in men and six in women; in three of the latter the abscesses were of puerperal origin; in the remaining seventeen no origin could be assigned for the disease. They commonly occurred in individuals between twenty and forty years of age. They nearly all answered to the so-called psoas abscesses, with the characteristic flexion of the leg. In three of the patients absorption took place and recovery followed. In two cases the action of the contracted limb was completely restored • in one the contraction was permanent; in those in wliicb the abscesses opened, this took place close above or below Poupart’s ligament. Seven of these patients died from the suppuration—-partly with symptoms of pyaemia, and partly from the exhaustion. In one instance the abscess broke into the urinary bladder, and in another a fistula formed between the intestine and the abdominal wall. One patient with a large, congestive abscess, which broke into the intestine, recovered completely in a few weeks. Retro-peritoneal ahscess. (Acute psoitis.) In the case of a young lady whom I saw in private, a large abscess had formed and occasioned terrible pain; the patient did not remain under my treatment, but I heard subsequently that the abscess did not break, but became absorbed. However, a great deal of contraction was left. The disease lasted seven months. In another case, that of a man about 40, an acute abscess formed deep down in the right side of the pelvis. After a month it broke spontaneously, close under Poupart’s ligament. In course of time the discharge of pus ceased, and the opening closed up; convalescence, however, did not set in, and the patient had constant pain about the right. kidney. Under these ciicumstances, and on account of his great suffering, and very severe intermittent febrile attacks, he was brought over from Belgrade to Vienna to see me. I found him in a deplorably reduced condition, and unable to extend his left leg completely. I detected fluctuation deep down in the legion of the right kidney, and on making an incision let out a large See, also, supra, p. 229, for further remarks on abscesses of this nature.