360 AOUTE DISEASE OP WRIST. OSTEOMYELITIS. any irritation leads to acute inflammation. Acute spontaneous osteomyelitis is rarely seen in the upper extremity, except in the terminal phalanges (panaritium periostale) ; monarticular rheumatic inflammation too, is of rare occurrence in the upper extremity. In metastatic inflammations of the joints, I have not infrequently seen the lymphatics inflamed, and distinct, localised, erysipelatous redness of the skin over the affected parts. From this I conclude that these periarticular inflammations of the cellular tissue are due to infective material passing out from the synovial membrane, into the lymphatic vessels. In the same way, I explain the peri- articular inflammation which is met with in acute rheumatic inflam- mations of the joints, and in acute gout. In the latter disease, everybody considers now that there is for the time being, a deposit of urates in the joint, and we may not unreasonably suppose, there- fore, that acute rheumatic inflammation of a joint, and acute spontaneous osteomyelitis are due to the deposit of some infectious material. It seems to me somewhat premature to attempt invari- ably to refer all acute inflammations to the same causes of origin. Much more collateral proof is required than hitherto it has been possible to adduce, and after all, we ought not too blindly to be carried away by this hypothesis of infection. Acute inflammation of the wrist-joint. A woman, set. 59, stated that her right hand had swollen, and that all the movements had been very painful for eight days before admission. When I saw her, I fancied that the case was simply one of phlegmonous inflammation, possibly accompanied by inflammation of the sheath of the tendons. The part was painted with strong tincture of iodine, and ice applied. The disease, however, increased rapidly in severity ; the right shoulder and the right elbow became affected, and finally, owing to suppuration and disorganisation of the wrist, amputation was resorted to; the patient died of pyaemia thirty-six days after the commencement of the disease. I think in this case the disease was most probably very acute polyarticular rheumatism. Necrosis of humerus, acute osteomyelitis. Carl K—, art. 16, was admitted in December, 1869 ; he had suffered from hip disease for four years, which had gone on to suppuration and ankylosis.