VENTRAL HERNIA. INTERNAL STRANGULATION. 241 Ventral hernia with symptoms of strangulation and chronic peritonitis. Friderike C—, set. 43. Twenty years previously she gave birth to her first - and only child. Shortly after the confinement she noticed a soft, reducible tumour, the size of a hen’s egg, close to the umbilicus on the left side. During the succeeding twelve months the tumour became constantly larger. Ten years later, symptoms of incarceration occurred ; the abdominal hernia became irredircible, and the patient was operated on by Prof, von Bruns in Tubingen. The hernia came back after the operation, but for a long time was reducible. The patient neglected to wear her bandage, and went back to a rather laborious occupation: the tumour then became gradually larger and larger. During the last few months, before she came under our care, it had been painful and irreducible. Four days before she was taken into the hospital, she had severe abdominal pain, vomiting, and constipation. The patient was a very spare, thin woman ; when admitted the pulse was very small, and the temperature low. A ventral hernia, larger than a man’s head, existed close below and a little to the left side of the umbilicus. The swelling was in part resonant on percussion. Opium was given and attempts made to replace the tumour without success ; the vomiting continued. I therefore made an incision through the abdominal walls, into the upper border of the tumour. Immediately on making this incision, an enormous amount of the fluid contents of the small intestine escaped from a long loop of gut, which was adherent to the edge of the opening. None of the fluid, however, escaped into the abdominal cavity, as the portion of intestine opened was universally adherent to the abdominal wall. It was found impossible to examine further the state of the parts, for the intestines were everywhere inseparably matted to each other or to the hernial sac. The intestinal fistula, which I had unin- tentionally formed, I left open. Slight improvement followed the operation for a while, but then collapse ensued, and she died five days later. Post mortem: no exact explanation of the incarceration could be made out, but all the intestines were united into a convoluted mass, adherent everywhere to the omentum and the abdominal walls. Internal strangulation. Abdominal Section. J. II, set. 24, a vigorous, strong man, was seized suddenly, without any known cause, with severe abdominal pain, followed shortly by vomiting. These symptoms kept on increasing, and no action of the bowels took place. Six days after the commencement of the illness, the patient was brought up to the hospital with all the symptoms of ileus. He stated that as a child he had an inguinal hernia on the right side, but that of late years ho had never noticed it. No trace of hernia could be found in the right inguinal Tegion. Inasmuch as opium, clysters, poultices to the abdomen, etc., had already been employed and the patient’s condition was evidently beyond cure 16