359 ACUTE NON-TBAUMATIC INFLAMMATIONS. Section B. Acute and Chronic Inflammations.—Acute non- traumatic inflammations—general remarks. Case of acute rheumatic disease of wrist. Case of acute osteomyelitis. Necrosis of the hones of the upper extremity. Ganglion. Cases of teno- synovitis—treatment. Case of onychogryphosis. Chronic malignant onychia. Case of elephantiasis. Case of syphilitic ulceration. Doubtful case of gangrene of fingers. Gangrene of puerperal origin. Case of chronic periostitis. Chronic disease of shoulder and elbow-joints. Remarks on excision. Arthritis deformans. Disease of shoulder-joint—excision. Subperiosteal excision of elbow. Case of reproduction of elbow- r'oini after excision. Ankylosis of elbow ; treatment. Case of hydrops of the elbow-joint. Chronic disease of the wrist-joint. Case of excision of tvrist. Acute non-traumatic Inflammations. In tabulating my cases for sixteen years, between 1860-76, I entered a great many under the above heading. To all appearance they originated spontaneously, but I have not the slightest doubt that injuries—though possibly very insignificant—give rise to the infection and inflammation. Most of the “ spontaneously arising ” whitlows start from some slight, neglected graze or puncture or crack on the finger; as a rule, they lead only to purely local inflam- mation of the part, but sometimes to extensive inflammation of the lymphatics. In the majority of cases resolution follows; but occasionally the infective material remains stored up in the cubital or axillary glands, and abscesses form later on (see a case quoted in ‘ Billroth’s Path./ Ilackleys5 Transl., p. 330). At the com- mencement of the disease, patients do not take care of themselves, and constantly, notwithstanding the pain, go on with their work while there is considerable swelling of the limb. Thus, the extension of inflammation is favoured, and the infectious phlogo- genous material extends up the lymphatics, especially the large supra-fascial Jymph-sinuses. Inflammation in the hollow of the hand is especially prone to cause great swelling, and often without