20 PY2EMIA AND SEPTO-PY2EMIA. of severe secondary fever as pysemic. With Hueter, also, I dis- tinguish between pyaemia simplex where there are no metastases, and pyaemia multiplex, where metastatic purulent deposits occur, and where numerous areas of infection are kept up and increased. Nor in tabulating my cases have I made a special class for septo- pyaemia, although I do not deny that this combination may exist; on the contrary, I think that the latter has a distinctive symptoma- tology, but it must be admitted that it would be arbitrary to decide, from the notes of cases, whether the secretions of the wounds were ichorous or purulent, or a combination of the two.1 With regard to the pathological and anatomical aspect of pymmia, erysipelas, and diphtheria, I feel that I can now add but little to what I have already written in the f Archiv fur Klin. Chirurg./ 13d. ix. I may observe, however, that in Vienna, metastatic disease of the brain and brain membranes were of remarkably frequent occur- rence, especially after operations about the head, the tongue, or the lower jaw. In some cases we were able distinctly to demonstrate that the diphtheritic process extended up the nerve sheaths. Venous thrombosis became more and more rare, whilst pure septicaemia and pyaemia simplex gradually came more and more into the foreground. Tables of cases of septo-pyaemia (including some of diphtheritic inflammation of wounds) and erysipelas will be found in the c Wiener Bericht,’ 1871-6, p. 54 et seq. 1 The above sentence may serve to explain the significance attached in Germany to the term “jauche” (ichor). There appears to be no true English equivalent; the word “ ichor ” is used rather vaguely in surgical literature. It would be desirable to adopt some such definition of the two terms—ichor and pus—as suggested by Sir J. Paget in his ‘Lectures on Surg. Path.,’ 3rd edition, p. 316. “A constant difference between pus and ichor will be, that the latter contains disintegrated or dissolved material of the ulcerating tissue—the former does not.”—[Ed.]