CASES OP NASO-PHARYNGEAL POLYPI. RANULA. 101 He recovered, and a year later I saw him again. There was no 'recurrence; both nasal cavities were perfectly free, no deformity existed, and the cicatrix was scarcely visible. There was, however, slight epiphora. F. M—, oet. 41, noticed first in January, 1869, some obstruction of the left nasal cavity, and pain in the forehead ; by July, 1869, the left side of the nose was completely choked up. A polypus was then removed by Professor von Dumreicher by the forceps, and the patient was discharged a few days later. Shortly after the operation the obstruction returned, and now extended into the light nasal cavity. On the admission of the patient a tumour, having the circumference of a small apple, with a gangrenous surface, was seen lying behind the velum. Superiorly the growth was attached to the upper part of the pharynx on the right side. The growth was removed through the right nasal cavity by means of the ecraseur. On further exa- mination after the operation a second small tumour, with a similar attach- ment, was found on the left side, and this was removed in the same way through the left nasal cavity. Discharged recovered. Fifteen months later he wrote and informed us that he was free from all recurrence and able to breathe without hindrance through either side of the nose. F. H—, set. 19, had suffered for three years from difficulty of breathing through the nose, swelling of the right half of the face, and frequent severe epistaxis from both nostrils. For the last few weeks deglutition had been interfered with. When admitted the whole of the right upper jaw was prominent; the anterior wall of the antrum reduced to a thin lamella ; the right eyeball pushed forward, and on a higher level than the left. The hard palate on the right side was thinned and yielded to pressure; the velum was pushed forward as far as the middle of the tongue; the tumour entirely filled the pharynx, as well as the right nasal cavity. Fie was able only to count fingers with the right eye. The growth was removed with complete . success by Dr. Menzel. An incision was carried down the side of the nose and through the upper lip. The remnants of the right superior maxilla were removed, and a tumour, the size of the fist, laid bare. This had a tolerably broad connection to the lower surface of the body of the sphenoid, a portion of which was removed, together with the tumour, but the cavity of the skull was not opened; the eyeball was preserved. No improvement of vision is recorded. Nine months later he was well, and free from recurrence. Ranula. While at Zurich I met with two cases in which sebaceous contents were found in the ranulsc : one was in a child of four years old, possibly a cyst in connection with the branchial fissure; the other in a young man. In both the cysts were slit up, and their walls united by sutures to the mucous membrane of the