453 FEMORAL ANEURISM : COMPRESSION. a third ligature had been applied. The wound was dressed with carbolic oil; the same evening the oedema of the extremity had considerably diminished. Slight oozing of dark blood still persisted, which was found to be due to the fact that the vein had been wounded at the same time as the artery. A double ligature was placed around the vessel, and the hsernor- rbage stopped ; the oedema after this again increased. On the tenth day two ligatures came away ; the artery—yellow in colour, and tomentose in appear- ance—laj free in the wound. On the twelfth day sudden severe hajmorrhage occurred. I ligatured the femoral artery close under Poupart’s ligament,, and the hemorrhage ceased, but this last loss of blood was too much for the patient, and he died from gangrene of the foot two days later. No post mortem was permitted. Aneurism cured by compression. A man, set. 23, was wounded in the thigh by a conical bullet owing to the accidental discharge of a revolver which he let fall from his hand. During the first few hours considerable swelling took place, which partly subsided under cold compresses and rest. Twenty-two days later an aneurism was detected by his medical attendant, for which digital compression was applied and employed daily for two or three hours. When admitted, the shot wound, situated at the junction of the lower and middle thirds of the right thigh, was found to be cicatrised over ; no aperture of exit existed, nor could the bullet be discovered. Just above the cicatrix was a markedly pul- sating aneurism, an inch and a half in length and an inch in breadth ; a loud blowing murmur was distinctly audible. The integument was movable over the swelling, and there was no pain on pressure. Por the first three days- digital compression was employed for seven, nine and ten hours respectively,, and then compression by means of a horse-shoe tourniquet and pad. The patient, who was very tractable, applied tbe compressor himself whenever the pulsation became distinct, and the treatment was continued with but few hours’ intermission for twenty-three days. By the ninth day the tumour had become distinctly harder, and the pulsation diminished. On the twenty- eighth day, when the tourniquet was removed no pulsation could be detected, but after eight hours it was faintly perceptible. Compression was resumed and the patient discharged nine days later. The pulsation of the artery could still be felt indistinctly at the situation of the aneurism ; it seemed to be separated from tbe sac. Eighteen months later I heard that the patient was able to do his work, and was in tbe habit of applying the tourniquet for a day or two when any pulsation could be felt. No further increase of the aneurism followed. Popliteal aneurism ; compression ; double ligature of femoral. Ignatz G—, tet. 36, a labourer. Eight months previously, from no known