PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMPUTATIONS. HOSPITALISM. 471 The first comprehensive statistics of amputations were published by Malgaigne, who took them from the journals of the Parisian hospitals. Individual surgeons were thus exempted from being personally answerable for the results shown, which reflected the state of the surgical art as such. Unfortunately, they were so unfavourable that it was made on that account easier for individual surgeons to publish their results themselves, for with the advancing improvement of our art they became gradually better. It had long been clear on purely empirical grounds that after the “ method of amputation ” and “the early union or non-union of amputation wounds ” there were other circumstances, such as the conditions demanding amputation and the period of the wound and of the illness during which operation was performed, which had the most important bearing on the result. Military surgeons had long been discussing whether amputation ought to be performed imme- diately after the injury (primary) or at a later period, when the gunshot wound had begun to suppurate (secondary). The Paris Academy, in 1745? offered a prize for an answer to this question. Subsequently it was found that, speaking generally, amputations for injuries yielded more unfavourable results than amputations for chronic suppurations, tumours, etc., and thus arose the system of grouping amputation cases which is now fundamentally adopted in most statistical tables ; indeed, this point till a few years ago was held of such paramount importance that the method of operation and the after-treatment were scarcely mentioned. The popularisation of pyaemia, especially the fact that this disease was looked upon as one almost entirely due to hospital miasmatic influences, lor a while diverted attention entirely from the wound and the patient, and made the fate of the case depend almost entirely on the surrounding atmosphere. The favourable results obtained in the hastily-constructed hospital huts during the American war, added to Simpson's crusade against hospitalism, together con- verted surgeons into builders, and builders into surgeons; it seemed for the time, almost as if it were a matter of perfect indifference how and when amputations and resections were performed, and how the after-treatment of the wound was conducted, provided only the patient were kept in the open air, or in a well-ventilated locality, the great object now was to group together amputation cases which had been treated in private practice, next those in small hospitals (which by a priori reasoning were held to be, after private