256 REMOVAL OF RECTUM FOR CANCER. not seem to be diminished by employing the galvano-caustic apparatus; none of the patients died actually from this cause, though great loss of blood more than once gave cause for anxiety. Death invariably took place from retro-peritoneal suppuration which as a rule was characterised by acutely septic symptoms, so that the patients generally died in from four to eight days; two cases only lasted rather longer. At times it seemed as if the suppuration were inclined to decrease, after the separation of large sloughs of cellular tissue, but the patients died nevertheless of pyaemia and exhaustion. On the whole I have come to the conclusion that cases where the whole of the sphincter, together with a portion of the skin was removed, do better than those in which as much as possible of these parts is preserved. By trying to save too much the discharge of secretion is impeded, even when almost the entire cavity of the wound is filled with drainage tubes. Uniting the edge of the rectum to the skin wound hinders the escape of secretion, even though only two or three sutures be employed; I do not now advise this plan, by which at the best but little is gained. Healing by first intention can rarely be looked for; as a rule, the sutures cut their way through within two or three days, and the rectum then becomes drawn up again. One case which was remarkably suc- cessful, in respect of the length of time that elapsed without any recurrence of the disease, has already been mentioned (p. 255). The majority of these cases are unsatisfactory. The number of patients that I have seen in private, on whom I declined to operate, is tolerably large; the despair of these unfortunates, like that of many others who have been sent up for operation, is often heart- rending when they hear that no operation is advisable, and that they must abandon themselves to the prospect of a speedy end to their lives. So it has come about that in spite of the unfavourable prospects I have from time to time taken up this operation again, yet I can well understand that these operations are wholly dis- countenanced by surgeons who seldom meet with such cases, and who are spared the distressing scenes which are inflicted on us, owing to the. vivacious and sensitive nature of the Austrian tem- perament.