418 OSTEOMYELITIS ATTACKING NUMEROUS BONES. The next case is of special interest, inasmuch as the disease extended from the tibia to the femur and pelvis, and affected also other parts. Anthon G—v, set. 12, was attacked suddenly one day with severe pain in the left leg, so that he was unable to stand. He was feverish, but the disease did not begin with rigors. Swelling of the left leg and knee-joint was soon observed. The application of some iodine caused extensive vesication, but the patient’s condition became worse and worse. On the twelfth day an inci- sion was made just below the knee-joint on the anterior surface of the tibia and some sanious pus let out. During the next few days, swelling was noticed over the lower end of the femur. A fortnight afteradmission bespat up some clotted blood. This symptom did not occur again and nothing abnormal could be detected in the chest. The incision over the tibia was enlarged, but although the discharge was free, neither the swelling of the knee nor that of the thigh decreased. Between the twenty-second and twenty-fifth days the knee-joint was washed out three times. On the first occasion the pus was serous, inodorous, and contained numerous strepto-cocci; on the second occasion there were fewer cocci, while on the third puncture the pus was thick, and quite free from cocci. It was evident that the lower end of the femur was attacked with osteomyelitis, and on the twenty-sixth day amputation was performed through the middle of the thigh. The child was in a high state of fever at the time of operation. On examining the amputated leg, the upper end of the tibia and the lower end of the femur were found infiltrated with pus, but the articular cartilages were to all appear- ance intact. The sawn surface of bone was healthy. Undoubted symptoms of osteomyelitis now made their appearance in the stump, and the pain and swelling extended up to the pelvis. Amputation at the hip-joint was out of the question for there were signs of suppuration in the opposite thigh as well as in the hip-joint. He died on the forty-eighth day of the disease. At the post-mortem we found osteomyelitis in the stump of the femur, the anterior part of the pelvis, and the upper portion of the right femur. Tho process had extended up from the left thigh, and the affection of the joints must be accounted for by extension through the lymphatics of the capsule and the periosteum. A few infiltrated spots were found in the lungs, but they were evidently so recent that they could scarcely have had any connection with the haemoptysis which had occurred a month previously. In all probability this symptom was accounted for, as in the preceding case (T. H. swpra, p. 415), by fat embolism of the pulmonary capillaries. Among thirty cases a definite cause was assigned in two only; in one instance, chronic disease of the thigh had existed previously. The patients, as a rule, were young, from eight to twenty-nine years old, as my tables show. I have met with acute osteomyelitis,