430 EXCISION OP THE HIP. for caries. I have had no opportunity myself, of seeing good permanent results in the patients on whom I operated myself, or in those who have been under the treatment of others. Again, it must be acknowledged of excision, that it is very seldom capable of accomplishing what an operation for caries ought to accomplish, i.e. the removal of all the diseased bone. Removal of the acetabulum has its limits. I do not see that we are justified in performing excision early in children with hip disease, for by timely treatment many more recoveries must follow, and a straight ankylosed hip is better for the patient than an excised joint. Even as regards the functions of the part excision can effect but little, and the power of walking will always be defective. Moreover, the results of excision of the hip are not remarkably favourable quoad vitam, and as it does not hold out any great prospect of saving patients from death when they are much reduced, the operation appears, on the whole, to me, to have no great future before it. A minute statistical inquiry as to the course of hip-joint disease, where excision is not practised, and the efficiency of the ordinary remedies in curing it will alone be able to prove decisively the value or worthlessness of the operation. I do not pretend to give any positive opinion on the subject, although I have long and earnestly interested myself in this question. r Chronic inflammation of the hip-joint. Forcible extension. A child, set. 12, came under my care, who five years previously had fallen and struck his left knee. Swelling of the paid immediately followed, and there was so much pain at the outset that the patient for six months was kept on his back. Gradually disease of the left hip-joint developed, and abscesses formed. The child was sometimes kept at rest, sometimes allowed to get about with crutches; during the summer he was sent to different baths, and was altogether well looked after. To this circumstance may be attributed the fact that his general condition was good when he was admitted. The left leg was then strongly adducted at the hip-joint, ilexed, and rotated inwards. He could not completely extend the limb at the knee-joint. On both sides of the limb over the hip-joint were sinuses, from which a moderate amount of discharge escaped. The probe passed deeply into these openings, hut no bono could bo felt. Treatment was commenced by straightening the knee-joint, which was effected without difficulty under chloroform ; a plaster bandage was then applied. A few weeks later I broke down tho ankylosis of the hip, and by applying extension materially improved the position. Unfortunately the weight and pulley had soon to bo given up, for tho