22 ETIOLOGY OP TRAUMATIC ERYSIPELAS. which generally obtain on the method of spreading of other in- fectious diseases, such as typhus, scarlatina, diphtheritis, &c. There is a tendency among the younger generation to defend more and more energetically the view that these morbid processes solely spread by infection from without. In the case of many other diseases which we now hold only to spread by contagion, there has been a similar alteration of opinion; not so very long since, it was thought that syphilis sometimes was caused by want of cleanliness, sometimes by contagion. The spontaneous origin of measles, scarlet fever, and smallpox is still believed in by many, while absolutely denied by others. Griesinger, who has won such undying fame by his doctrine on the specific nature of the poison of typhus, could account for well known matters of fact, in no other way than by supposing that true typhus might also originate through the absorption of septic matter. Liebermeister denied this, and we «,pow acknowledge that typhus can only spread by specific infection. It was just the same formerly with regard to Asiatic cholera, which was thought to be at times produced in summer by the eating of unripe fruit. I mention these facts, in order to remind my readers that our views on erysipelas are very much the same as those which obtain among physicians generally, with regard to the majority of in- fectious diseases; and amongst surgeons, as also amongst the physicians, the number of those constantly increases, who hold that these maladies in the vast majority of cases—perhaps always—are spread by some specific cause of disease. Long and careful study of these questions has led me to the con- clusion that the severe general diseases, which we call septicaemia and pyaemia, are not specific according to our modern interpretation of the terms infection and contagion. With erysipelas and hospital gangrene, the reverse is certainly the case. I was only gradually convinced of the truth of this view; the proofs seem to me simple enough, and I have given them at length elsewhere. V irtually it comes to this:—That the origin of septicaemia and pyaemia depends on the situation and nature of the lesion, and is closely connected with certain definite stages of its progress, while any wound, in any part of the body and at any stage whatsoever, may be attacked by erysipelas, or hospital gangrene. Supposing that for some twelve months, without known cause, all the erysipelas that occurred was found to attack healthily granu-