86 N 0 N-M ALT G N A NT TUMOURS OF FACE, ETC. tion. By transplanting frcsli flaps and causing the end of the nose to sink back into better position, the shape of the organ could have been materially improved, but I counselled the man, in case he wished for any further operative proceedings, to come back in a year’s time. No further record of the case can be found. Section E.—Non-malignant Tumours. Cases : Pigmentation of face. Horny cutaneous growths. Arterio- venous angioma of nose. Ditto of forehead and eyelids, treated' ly acupuncture. Pulsating tumour of head. Treatment of angioma cavernosuni. Case of molluscum lipomatosum ; repeated operations. Large neuroma plexforme. Case of neurofibroma of temporal region and orbit. Non-malignant cylindroma of orbit, removal; recovery. Echinococcus of orbit. Fibroma of the cheek. Fibroma of parotid—Cases. Distension of the antrum ; remarks. Note on tumours of the jaw. Case of huge fibroma of lower jaw. Note on polypus nasi. Naso- pharyngeal polypus—Cases. Note on ranula. Congenital papilloma of longue. Sebaceous cyst of tongue. Pigm.enlation of face. A girl, eet. 8, came under treatment with the following history :—Six years previously some pigmentation, brownish yellow in some places, black in others, first appeared on the skin, near the eyes. It occurred in the form of little spots, varying in size from a pin’s head to a lentil. Between the spots the skin was tolerably pale, so that she presented a completely piebald appearance. The pigmentation extended over the whole body. Bor some months she had suf- fered from intolerance of light. In the substance of the cutis of the cheek and the alee of the nose were several soft, prominent, roundish nodules, varying in size from a lentil to a pigeon’s egg. The patient was transferred to the department for skin diseases. Horny cutaneous growths. One of these, situated on the left upper eyelid, was half an inch long and about two lines thick. The patient was a woman fifty-three years of age, and the projection had been growing for many months. The other was on the left lower eyelid in a man aet. 33. It had been growing for three months and was 2 centimetres long, t a centimetre thick, and somewhat spiral in form. Both were removed. Arterio-venous angioma. Case.—E. J—, ret. 35. Twenty years previously she had had a fall and struck her nose. Some little time after a pulsating swelling formed, which