78 CASE OF SALIVARY FIST OLA—HARE-LIP. come smaller and the operation may require to be repeated. The deviation of the septum and its effect in impeding respiration through the nose, is imperfectly understood by many surgeons, like the par- tial enlargements of the inferior turbinated bone. These patients were nearly always sent to me with the diagnosis of nasal polypus. Salivary fistula. One case came under my care in which, five months previously, an abscess had originated in the neighbourhood of Stenon’s duct without known cause. A fortnight after its first appearance the abscess was opened. A fine fistulous opening was left, from which a considerable amount of saliva continually escaped, especially after eating. The probe passed through the opening into the duct close to its exit from the gland. Inasmuch as the proximal end was too short to allow of its being detached and turned into the mouth, I dissected out the duct together with the fistula, and placed close above it a strong silk ligature in such a way that I was able to tie the ends of the thread firmly in the mouth. Then I refreshed the two edges of the skin wound and brought them together over the ligature. My hope was, that the ligature would soon cut its way through, that the skin would heal by first intention, and that the saliva would pass into the mouth through the fistula, which was now turned in that direc- tion. This did not succeed, however, so directly as I wished; the parotid swelled up considerably for the first few days. The loop of the ligature was removed from the mouth after a week. In the meantime the skin sutures had been removed; some suppuration took place at their situation; pus could also be pressed out from the parotid at the wound, and some saliva also flowed externally. The part was cauterised and pressure applied. Finally the wound in the cheek closed, four weeks after the operation, and no more saliva escaped externally. I cannot say positively whether this result was due to partial sup- puration and atrophy of the gland, or owing to the altered situation of the fistula, which had been directed inwards. Hake-lip. Unless the parents urgently demand an operation as early as possible, I generally prefer to operate on children when they are more than one year old. I always advise this in strong children with complicated hare-lips, especially when the inter-maxillary bones are displaced and the hare-lip is double. In a few cases that I have kept under observation for some time after operation, the fissure of the alveolar process closed after a few months, when the operation was performed at the second year.