424 CHRONIC PERIOSTITIS AND LENGTHENING OE LIMB. went on in the wound, and the patient died of pyajmia. Tost mortem: metastatic abscesses in the brain and lungs, and purulent thrombosis of the light femoral vein. A small cavity was found in the upper end of the shaft of the femur filled with pus and broken down granulations, and containing a sequestrum. A narrow track connected the cavity to the larger abscess. Evidently in this case, the symptoms which were supposed to be due to acute articular rheumatism, were the result of subacute, circumscribed osteomyelitis, which ran on to central necrosis. Michael W—, set. 22. Eleven years previously without known cause, he was attacked with severe pain in the right leg (probably due to acute osteo- myelitis). A year later, an abscess formed over the inner side of the thigh and was followed by others on the anterior surface of the leg. Some ulcera- tion about the parts was thought to be possibly due to congenital syphilis. The sinuses had never closed since their formation but no bone had come away. The sinuses were laid open, and found to lead down to a cavity filled with granulations which were scraped away; the walls of the cavity were of ivory hardness. The sinuses closed in five months. The most interesting point in this case was the marked lengthen- ing of the affected extremity ; the lower two thirds of the femur, and the upper two thirds of the tibia, were considerably thickened. The lengthening of the femur amounted to four centimetres and that of the leg was the same.1 (See Plate IX). Very chronic periostitis and osteomyelitis. A man, act. 54, was admitted with the following history :—Forty-two years previously he fell heavily on to his right knee. Great swelling of the right knee and thigh followed, and he had to keep his bed for three months. He recovered sufficiently to walk about, but the knee never became quite straight and remained painful and swollen. Eight years after the injury an abscess formed at the lower part of thigh ; the sinuses which resulted were still open when ho came under my treatment. In spite of the fact that the suppura- tion was very considerable from no less than four sinuses, the patient’s strength had not materially suffered, His lungs and kidneys were sound, although the disease of the bone had existed for forty-two years, and sup- puration had gone on for thirty-four. The external appearance of the limb most strongly suggested necrosis about the popliteal space; the sinus on the inner side of the femur led down to hard, smooth bone, which how- ever was not loose. I cut down on the inner side of the thigh, but found that 1 Cf. a case recorded by Mr. Day, in the ‘ Chir. Soc. Trans.,’ vol. ii, p. 104 ; and in vol. xi, p. 214. [Ed.]