CYST OF BACK. 2 01' respiration acting on tlie upper part of the thorax. At each deep inspiration, the thorax was distinctly raised ; the action of the diaphragm, though not absent,, was comparatively slight. This condition was explained by the immobility and rigidity of the false ribs, which prevented the displacement of the abdominal viscera. In this respect the case presented differed materially from that recorded by Skinner, in which the thorax was perfectly tranquil dirring respiration, all movement being prevented by the bony union of the ribs and thoracic muscles. The cardiac sounds did not suggest any ossification of the muscular substance of the heart. In other respects the patient had nothing to complain of, his appetite was excellent, and all the functions of the body were properly discharged; neither in the quantity nor constituents of the urine could anything abnormal be found. With respect to the amaurosis of the left eye, the question arose—and it was a question very difficult to decide—whether the loss of vision had any connection with his attack of pneumonia. Prof. Horner, who saw the patient directly after the eye became affected, kindly sent to us the following information—“ I found complete amaurosis of the left eye, so that he could only distinguish the movements of the hand when quite close ; the ophthal- moscope showed complete optic atrophy, small vessels, and a very transparent lamina cribrosa. In the neighbourhood of the macula, were small haemor- rhagic spots. Traces of absorbed extravasation were seen about the veins at the upper parts, and on or in the vessels were fine, white, glistening discrete dots, which seemed to be connected with some alteration of the walls of the vessels; below, about in the equator of the eye, was a round, chalky, glistening spot, over which passed a blood-vessel. In the right eye the outer half of the papilla was much flattened, and the lamina cribrosa remarkably defined. The inner part of the optic disc red in colour; field of vision normal.” The connection of the complete atrophy of the left, and the partial atrophy of the right optic nerve, with the extensive processes of ossification about the body, it is not easy to explain: still, the supposition seems by no means improbable that the white spot seen in the left fundus was due to a calcareous deposit in the choroid. The unusually strong reflection of the brilliant white colour of this spot rather negatived the idea that it could have been due to pigmentary atrophy alone. Cyst of the bade. A youth, set. 16, came up to the Clinic with a fluctuating tumour, the size of a goose egg, close under the left scapula. This had been accidentally noticed some weeks before by a comrade, while he was bathing. I punctured the cyst, and let out a few ounces of clear, highly albuminous serum; microscopically, no structural elements could be observed. In three weeks, the growth had filled up again as largo as before. I then punctured it again, and injected with equal parts of iodine and water. A good deal of effusion followed which was rapidly absorbed. Unfortunately I lost sight of the- youth, and cannot say whether the euro was pci*mauont.