427 CHRONIC HIP-JOINT DISEASE. very little destruction of the bones, though the medulla was very red. The capsule of the joint was slightly thickened and the synovial membrane very cedematous and swollen. This formidable disease is characterised by intense pain on attempting any movement, but without any tendency to flexion of the limb, which indeed, is kept in the extended position, rapid emaciation of the whole frame, and a great tendency to decubitus. The diagnosis of this severe form of ostitis affecting the head of the femur is always difficult, and it requires indeed great sagacity at times to distinguish the condition from acute synovitis. It is on this account that I have never attempted resection in these cases, though the operation is clearly indicated. By the time that I had ascertained beyond doubt that severe disease of the joint existed it was usually too late for excision, for collapse set in very quickly in these patients. I am unable to explain precisely why death took place; it was not from cachexia or exhausting discharges (Safteverlust), nor was the pain sufficient to account for the result. Best by means of a plaster bandage, or opium would have controlled this. The post- mortem examination showed nothing; although rigors sometimes occurred, yet no signs of metastatic inflammation could be dis- covered. I cannot but think, therefore, that the rapidly fatal issue is due to phlogistic infection, starting from the affected joint. Chronic Hip-joint Disease. (Z. B). A table of sixty-two cases of this affection will be found in the Zurich ‘Bericht,’ pp. 500, et seq. 34 were males, 28 females; excision was practised in six cases. No fewer than twenty of these patients died from one cause or another, such as lardaceous disease, marasmus, meningitis, pyaemia or measles. These results are, to my mind, very unfavourable, but there is only one way in which they can be improved, viz. by the patients coming under treatment directly the disease originates. In private practice, among the more educated classes we shall be able gradually to effect this, but not among the children of the labouring population. In a working man s family a sickly child is a terrible burden, and as long as a child suffering from hip-joint disease is able to get about, he is allowed to do so; it is only when the pain becomes so great that