164 MODE OP EXTIRPATING BRONCHOCELES. much larger size, entail none. This materially depends on the situation of the tumour; if the enlargement occurs in the lower part of the lobes of the thyroid and pushes forward against the unyielding sternum and first rib, compression of the trachea follows and dyspnoea is produced. Eronchoceles seated laterally at a somewhat higher level, frequently cause dyspnoea at their commence- ment ; later, however, when they bulge forwards between the fibres of the fascia and the anterior (seldom the posterior) edge of the sterno-mastoid, the dyspnoea again disappears. Cysts, as well as parenchymatous bronchoceles may—according to their situation— cause dyspnoea. In such cases the division of the sterno-mastoid has but little effect. The deep-seated substernal bronciicoceles, which are the most dangerous of all, are not interfered with by the sterno- mastoid muscle but by the sternum. In deep-seated bronchoceles the dyspnoea is more marked in the male sex; probably owing to the fact that the fascia and muscles of the neck are more rigid, and that the tumour is therefore prevented from extending anteriorly. The complete removal of a bronchocele is a simple matter, but requires a good deal of care and attention in its performance. Every bronchocele is encapsuled; the capsule is merely connected to the parenchyma of the gland and the surrounding parts by very loose cellular tissue and blood-vessels. The incision has to be carried through this capsule, and sometimes extended into the gland substance. If the surgeon has not had a good deal of experience of this operation, he may easily detach the whole mass of the thy- roid, instead of merely the bronchocele, thus rendering the opera- tion far more complicated and dangerous. The tumour must be separated cautiously with the fingers, care being taken not to lacerate the parts or to tear the growth away too forcibly, as the veins and arteries passing into the bronchocele are very thin and readily ruptured. It is a matter of no little difficulty and danger to secure these vessels when they extend far back into the paren- chyma of the gland or deep under the sternum. No vessel ought to be cut through until it has been previously ligatured or secured on the proximal side. As soon as the capsule of the tumour is distinctly exposed, the knife and scissors must be laid aside. If the growth be ligatured en masse the threads should be drawn together as tightly as possible, otherwise the ends of the vessels will escape from the knots. Liquor ferri should not be employed to check bleeding in these cases, as it attacks the car-