422 ACUTE OSTEOMYELITIS OF TIBIA. buch accounts should be received with caution when we remember that acute osteomyelitis, as already remarked, often exactly resembles typhus in its symptoms. I may repeat here a remark which I have already made, viz. that the occurrence of dislocation of the hip after typhus, may well be doubted. It is not unlikely that the condition may be really due to osteomyelitis of the upper end of the femur without suppuration, followed by separation of the epiphysis, and displacement of the shaft of the femur backwards; the lateral decubitus of these patients, and their habit of lying with their limbs flexed, favour the displacement, for bed-sores often form so early that they avoid lying on their backs. In the following case the whole length but not the whole thickness of the tibia was affected. C. F—, set. 14, had recovered from an attack of typhus some months before admission. Three months before I saw him acute osteomyelitis with suppu- ration developed in the right tibia. Most probably, therefore, the osteo- myelitis developed spontaneously with typhoid symptoms. When I saw the boy, there was complete necrosis of the right tibia with separation of the upper epiphysis. He had also suppuration of the knee-joint, a large abscess on the outer side of the thigh, which was on the point of bursting, and was in a high state of fever with commencing septic symptoms. The abscess of the thigh was opened, the knee-joint drained, and a sequestrum removed from Ifiie tibia. He died about a fortnight later. No metastatic disease was found post-mortem nor was there any purulent osteomyelitis of the femur, so that the origin of the large supra-fascial abscess mentioned was not quite clear. Osteomyelitis of the tibia. A man, aet. 59, over whose leg the wheel of a waggon had passed, was admitted with an incised wound, two inches long, over the middle of the shin. The inner surface of the tibia was slightly depressed, but the bone was not broken. For the first few days the fever and swelling were considerable, but for twenty-four days he went on well; some swelling then began on the inner side of the calf, which suppurated, and rendered an incision necessary. The inner surface of the tibia was then found to be completely denuded of peri- osteum; thrombosis of the saphena vein followed, and repeated rigors. Death from pyaemia. Osteomyelitis of the tibia, suppurating thrombosis of the femoral veins and suppuration of the knee-joint were found post-mortem, together with abscesses in the lung. The age of the patient is a point of some interest in this case.