216 CANCER OP THE FEMALE BREAST. breasts were but little movable on the deeper parts. The tumours were of tough consistence and elastic in parts. No colostrum could be expressed from the nipples, and the axillary glands could not be felt. Pressure was applied to the breasts, but the patient became weaker every day, vomiting all food, and died a week after admission ; the whole process, therefore, had only lasted six weeks. Post mortem : both mammary glands were found to be converted into lobulated, soft, reddish, degenerated masses, exuding on section a white milky fluid. The growths were firmly connected to the fascia over the great pectoral muscle by thickened, infiltrated, cellular material. Medullary nodules were found also in the thyroid gland, the pericardium, substance of the liver, large omentum, and the cortex of the kidney. This, in contrast to the previous case,1 was distinctly of a carcinomatous nature. Cancer of the Female Breast (Z. B.). The number of my cases (49)® is naturally too small for me to be able to draw any statistical deductions of value with regard to the causes of origin of the disease. I may mention, however, that in six cases it was noted that after confinement a nodule had re- mained in the breast, which soon after became painful, and later on, developed into cancer. Nodules of this description often remain indolent for a long time (in three of my cases for four, eighteen, or thirty years respectively), and then, often with- out any known immediately exciting cause, rapidly increase and become painful. In one instance, a blow was given as the origin of the disease; in no other could any history of injury be traced. I am unable to say, from the somewhat scanty records of the cases, what relation the physiological function of the mammary glands bears to the development of cancer. In the Canton Zurich the women commonly have very ill-developed breasts. On this and many other social grounds, the mothers seldom nurse their children, but usually bring them up by hand. This is one of the principal reasons for the enormous mortality among children in the Canton Zurich. My records do not enable me to state positively in how many instances the patients have borne children, but from what has been said, it may be gathered that nearly all the women who had borne children and were affected with cancer of the breast had not nursed their offspring. These women work very hard in the fields, vineyards, and manufactories, so that they become prematurely old,. 1 Supra p. 212. 3 This number refers to bis practice at Zurich. [Ed.]