MALIGNANT BKONCHOCELE ABSCESS OF THYBOID. 169 occurred, if she dranlc fast: the breathing, however, had again become impeded, and the breath was very foul. With the aid of the laryngoscope the tube of the trachea was found to be much narrowed by a nodulated growth which had invaded the left wall of the larynx and trachea. The patient was anxious for a second operation, but under the circumstances, I could not advise it. She died two or three months later from suffocation. Carcinoma of the thyroid (slruma-carcinomatosa). A. G—, ffit. 35, an emaciated, weakly woman, had from her childhood, a thick neck. For two years the tumour had increased more rapidly, so that on admission, the entire right side of the neck, down as far as the clavicle was occupied by an immovable growth. Operation was out of the question. The jugular vein was found post mortem to be crammed full of the cancerous mass. Metastatic tumours were also discovered in the lungs and liver. The disease had lasted about two years. Malignant Ironchocele. A remarkable case of this nature was met with in a man, set. 61. The bronchocele extended deeply beneath the sternum, and compressed the light innominate vein. As a result, all the subcutaneous veins of the neck, and the front of the trunk, became converted into an enormously dilated convoluted mass. The patient died shortly after his admission of marasmus. The case is recorded at great length in the f Wiener Med. Wochenschrift/ 1877, No. 1, by Dr. Kretschy. The drawings on Plates II and III will sufficiently illustrate the case here. The tumour was found after death to be a medullary cancer of the thyroid, partly cystic; during life it occupied the position shown by the dotted line in PI. iii, fig. 6 c? Two cases of abscess of the thyroid gland. The first was that of a man, mt. 30, who had from his childhood a thick neck. Without any known cause, the left half of the thyroid gland became painful and swollen. Ten days later the skin was much reddened, and fluctuation was distinct. Onchotomy was performed. The patient was in a high state of fever at the time, but in three weeks he was able to leave. For a fortnight after the incision, lie had relapses of fever, with continual discharge of pus at the lower part. The second case was that of a woman, set. 26, who, after a natural confine- ment, had severe feverish symptoms and much pain in the head and neck. A11 extremely tender swelling then formed on the left side of the neck, and soon ran on to acuto inflammation of the left side of tho thyroid, which