OVARIAN TUMOUR TREATED BY IODINE INJECTION. 299 Ovarian tumour (?) treated by puncture and injection of iodine. Mario K—, set. 18, had noticed for four years the development of an abdominal tumour, which had occasioned her no pain. The menses com- menced when she was 17 and were regular. She could assign no cause for the origin of the disease. A year previously the tumour had disappeared, of itself in the course of two days, and at this time the patient stated that she passed enormous quantities of urine (rupture of the cyst into the bladder). Gradually the swelling returned. Six months before admission a large quan- tity of clear, watery fluid was evacuated by puncture. When admitted the abdomen was distended as in the eighth month of pregnancy, and all the symptoms pointed to a unilocular ovarian cyst. The tumour was punctured a few days after admission, and a large quantity of perfectly watery fluid escaped. A mixture of tincture of iodine and water aa i l oz. was injected and left in the cyst. The patient had rather severe pain for a few hours after the operation. On the following day the abdomen was tender on pressure; the urine contained some blood. In both urine and saliva a large amount of iodine was found. The fever diminished gradually and subsided altogether on the fourth day; there was then still a considerable quantity of iodine in the urine. After about a week the fluid began to collect again to some extent in the sac. She was then discharged at her own request. The evacuated fluid was analysed, in the chemico-pathological laboratory of the hospital, and the report was as follows :—“ Pale, opalescent fluid, sp. gr. 1009, alkaline ; 100 parts of the fluid contained qS'qo of water, no of solid residue. (1) Organic substances 0’30. Small quantities of serum albumin, traces of fat, and free fatty acids. No sugar. (2) Inorganic materials o’80. Traces of sulphuric and phosphoric acid, and a considerable amount of carbonic and hydrochloric acid. Some calcium, sodium, potash, and traces of magnesia. The possibility that the case was one of hydatid cyst cannot he denied. Neither from the history of the case, nor from the analysis, could an absolute diagnosis be arrived at. I heard of this patient nine years after the operation. No trace of the tumour could then be felt. She had married, and had borne two children. Eecurrence would hardly be expected in such a case as this, but yet it would be desirable to have information, some years aj’ter the operation, in other similar cases. Not long ago a patient came to me, in whom one ol my colleagues had, two years previously, treated a unilocular cyst by iodine injection. Whether the cyst shrank up completely at the time I cannot say, but when I saw the patient, there was an ovarian tumour about the size of a hen's egg. I did not advise, in this instance, any immediate operation. It is of