214 MELANOTIC CARCINOMA. from periods from two up to nine and a half years after the operation they were free from recurrence. Sarcoma, as is well known, is apt to recur locally, after long intervals of time. In this special class of cases, however, according to my present experience, if the growth does return, the recurrences follow one after the other at very short intervals. On one patient I operated five times for a purely local recurrence ; the lymphatic glands were not implicated. Since then she has remained perfectly well. I thought, at the last operation, that I had removed the last remnants of the gland which in this case was not very extensive. A severe attack of erysipelas occurred after the operation, which she got over. At the time of writing, a year has passed since the operation, and no fresh recurrence has taken place: formerly her intervals of health seldom lasted longer than three months. In two other patients the axillary glands were also affected, and in one of these the lymphatic glands contained numerous cysts with muco-sanious contents. Such cysts in the axillary glands can only have originated by mucoid softening of new tissue, which tissue is the result of infection, and consists of giant, spindle, and star-shaped cells arranged in an alveolar form. Unfortunately, in this case the mammary tumour was not examined with sufficient minuteness to enable us to say whether the cystic formation in the mamma had itself originated in this manner, or whether it was the result of dilatation of the acini. In one case secondary growths took place in the ribs, pleura, and pericardium, and proved fatal. I was enabled to assure myself in this instance that the growth had not been mistaken for cancer, nor did carcinoma supervene. Melanotic Carcinoma, combined with Alveolar Sarcoma. While engaged in examination of these mammary tumours, the progress of which is very much like that of carcinoma, I was for a long time in doubt how to classify them. The dark pigmentation, and the arrangement of the large celled elements, partly in finely reticulated structure,1 with the cells here and there firmly embedded in the alveoli, seemed to make it probable that they were of a sar- comatous nature. But the manner of extension of the growth, the 1 ‘Billroth’s Path.,’ p. 616.