OPERATION EOR HARE-LIP. 7$ I have been particularly satisfied with the results of operation, as far as appearance is concerned, on children at rather later periods of life and in adults. Operations on little children do not always succeed as well as could be wished, on account of the diminutive size and softness of the parts. The flaps of the lips cannot always be adapted exactly as desired, and even if this be satisfactorily accomplished, the result does not in every case quite come up to expectation, so that some few years after further slight proceedings become desirable in order to improve the appearance. At later periods of life the thick edges of the lip can be much better refreshed, trimmed, apposed, and united, just as seems at the time to be desirable, and there need be no fear as to the result. In order to obtain the best possible result, when there is no fissure of the alveolar process, the operation should be deferred till the patients are from three to six years old, but the friends and relations of the child will seldom agree to this delay. Operations on quite little chil- dren sometimes succeeded so completely that I was not able to im- prove matters later on. Still, I decline to give any absolute guarantee with regard to the result in such cases. Here, in Vienna, children of considerable age and adults very frequently come to the clinic with hare-lip which has not been operated upon. This, doubtless is explained by the fact that these individuals, for the most part, come from the outlying districts where there are but few surgeons. Staphyloraphy and TJrano-plastic Operations for Con- genital Malformations. Although, according to the experience of Rose, better results can be obtained when the children are operated on under the influence of an anaesthetic, and with the head hanging down, yet the func- tional results have hitherto not encouraged me to perform these operations on children to any great extent. However, the matter is by no manner of means yet settled.1 I had two fatal cases, in children of two weeks and two months old respectively. The ope- ration should, therefore, be delayed until the children are a year old and in good health. With regard to the functional success of 1 Vide a paper by Mr. Thomas Smith in the ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. li. To Mr. Smith is due the credit, at any rate in this country, of showing that the operation could be performed at an early age.—[Ed.]