STRANGULATED HERNIA. HERNIOTOMY. 249 found to be one of Littre’s hernia, with the gut in a gangrenous state. Strangulated Hernia. (W. B.) Between i860 and 1876, 164 cases of strangulated hernia came under observation (89 males, 75 females). In 89 instances the hernia was reduced by taxis, without operation. Two patients died after taxis. In 73 cases herniotomy was performed, with 35 recove- ries and 38 deaths. The number of cases successfully treated by taxis ought to be rather larger than the above figures show; a number of persons who came up to the clinic immediately 011 noti- cing symptoms of strangulation were not kept in the hospital, but were furnished with trusses and sent back home again after the reduction of the hernia. In the majority of these patients ineffec- tive attempts at taxis had been made before they came to us. Often enough the symptoms had existed for several days. This explains the unfavourable result in some cases : thus in five of the patients operated on, the hernia was found completely gangrenous, and in two cases, where taxis was employed, gangrene had set in. Formerly I always followed the advice given to me by my teachers, and in performing herniotomy avoided, if possible, opening the sac. I have often succeeded in so doing, but I never found that it had any material influence on the subsequent result. As regards injuries to the peritoneum, our ideas have become materially modi- fied ; we no longer apprehend any direct danger to life from injury or wound, but rather from septic infection of the peritoneum, a mem- brane from which the poisonous material is readily absorbed into the blood. How I have repeatedly satisfied myself that the sero- sanguineous faintly-smelling fluid, such as is commonly found in the sac in herniotomies, frequently contains bacteria. I have been able to convince myself of the septic properties of this secretion, by the infection of a small wound on my own finger, and by the inocu- lation of a rabbit s cornea. Every surgeon will admit the extreme difficulty of judging accurately of the condition of a hernial loop of intestine, or a protruding portion of omentum, by the colour. We know now that during the intermediate stages of an inflammation of a tissue, going on to gangrene, septic products are formed; these products have infective properties. We can scarcely wonder, there- fore, if, after replacing a semi-gangrenous coil of intestine, the peri-