149 ETIOLOGY OE LYMPHOMA. consistence, may usually be looked upon as simple hyperplasia. Such cases, however progress so slowly that they are seldom kept under observation in hospital to the end of the ‘disease. One of the most marked features of the scrofulous diathesis lies in the great proneness to inflammation of the lymphatic system. I entirely agree witli Virchow in his views on this matter, when he states that in nearly all cases some peripheral irritation gives rise to these lym- phatic swellings (I would rather say some infection coming from without to a lymphatic gland). He argues that the peculiarity of the scrofulous diathesis consists in this: that these formative irrita- tions do not cease when the source of irritation is removed—i.e. when the peripheral area from which the irritation originates recovers itself—but that the hyperplasia which has been once started in the lymphatic glands is then able by itself to extend more and more. I wish only to add to this that there are some individuals in whom such irritation leads to a continuous uniformly extending new formation (simple lymphoma) and that there are others in whom the hyperplastic formation soon becomes caseous, or breaks down and suppurates. This is tantamount to saying that etiologi- cally the simple lymphoma and the caseous suppurative and ulcerated lymphadenitis have essentially the same causes of origin. In these lymphatic swellings, then, which ^re recorded in my tables, cases only were entered which could be looked upon as idiopathic, and in which, at the time that the patients were under treatment, there was no disease in the neighbourhood of the face or head. In a few cases investigations were made as to whether the affection of the lymphatic glands had been preceded by some other disease, which might possibly have given rise to the lym- phoma. I find noted; that the lymphatic swellings were preceded in two cases by periostitis and caries of the upper jaw, in two by impetigo capitis, in several cases by inflammation of the eye, once by pneumonia, two by erysipelas of the face, once by angina, once by acute rheumatism, and in one instance the lymphatic glands were swollen, together with the thyroid gland. With regard to this last case it should be observed that lymphatic gland swellings do not accompany the ordinary common form of bronchocele, which I may mention in passing is somewhat remarkable. Since attempts have gained ground to refer lymphatic swellings, which formerly were classified as idiopathic, as little as possible to accidental causes, we have repeatedly heard that there are