282 HYPERTROPHY OP THE PROSTATE. character from the commencement. The point of the whole ques- tion amounts then to this; how can we get rid of ammoniacal fermentation in the bladder ? That is the preliminary condition required for success in a long lithotrity. Until the ammoniacal urine is got rid of, lithotrity generally, and especially that in one sitting, is, according to my views, contraindicated, for it is in the highest degree dangerous. Hypertrophy op the Prostate. Among forty-six cases I only met with one in which I was unable to pass the largest sized catheter into the bladder. The patient had complete retention. I was induced at length to try forcible cathe- terisation with a straight instrument—an operation which has been recommended by excellent surgeons, especially by Dupuytren. My attempt was unsuccessful; the instrument bent and did not pene- trate the prostate gland. Retro-peritoneal infiltration of urine fol- lowed and the patient died. I do not advise any one to follow my example. In such a case puncture of the bladder by the rectum would have been the proper proceeding. In addition to this case, seven of these patients died in the hospital of uraemia, marasmus, and diphtheritic inflammation of the bladder. The others were sent out after they had been taught to pass an instrument for themselves, and earnestly advised to evacuate the bladder completely by means of it every day. Pormerly, I used to advise these old men to procure metallic catheters. Lately, I have made them practise passing soft caoutchouc instruments (the so-called Nekton cathe- ters). These instruments can often be introduced into the bladder in cases of hypertrophied prostate with astonishing ease, while the metallic catheters sometimes give trouble. The solidity of the metal catheter is an advantage. Inability to pass the water and great catarrh of the bladder with alkaline urine, were the most frequent causes for which the patients came to the hospital. The treatment of this vesical catarrh has already been discussed. (Supra, p. 261 et seq.) Twice I found the bladder full of half coagulated blood. By injecting a good sized stream down a catheter, I managed to pump it out; in both cases there was inability to pass the urine for some