55 REMOVAL OF HYPERTROPHIED TONSILS. Hypertrophy of the Nose. The drawing (Plate I, fig. 4a) was taken from a highly intempe- rate man, aged 54, who for fifteen years had suffered from gradu- ally increasing redness and swelling of the nose. Pig. fb shows the same patient after operation, which was not followed by ery- sipelas ; the cartilages were carefully preserved. The growth con- sisted of soft, elastic integument, with numerous dilated sebaceous follicles. Plate I, fig. 3, illustrates the same condition; the patient would not submit to any operation. Bemoval of Hypertrophied Tonsils. I always remove tonsils with a sharp double hook and a straight or curved probe-pointed knife, as I was taught by von Langenbeck. In one case very formidable haemorrhage occurred during this ope- ration, which I have performed I know not how often. On re- moving the left tonsil in a young hysterical lady, an immense gush of blood occurred and partly descended into the larynx. I attempted in vain to introduce my finger into the mouth so as to exert pressure on the bleeding spot • the patient would not allow this proceeding. I instantly, therefore, made pressure on the carotid artery and kept it up for some time, while the patient retched fearfully. After a while the bleeding stopped; the scene was, however, so unpleasant for the patient, as well as for myself, that I should wish to preserve everybody from a similar mishap. Being desirous of removing the tonsil thoroughly, I had drawn it rather too far forward, and had in this way drawn out also and cut off a fold of mucous membrane from the side and back of the pharynx. The blood appeared to come from this wound, evidently from some large branch of the pharyngeal artery. Care should, therefore, be taken to avoid drawing forward the tonsils too much. Two very curious cases of syphiloma. A. B—, set. 9, had suffered, according to his own account, for two months from a flat, firm infiltration of the left upper eyelid. The skin covering it was