PAEALYSIS AFTEE FEAOTUEE. 349 of the injury or came on at a later period. The fracture united well, but the deformity of the hand remained. Galvanisation of the muscles gave no benefit. Five years afterwards the paralysis was in statu quo. It is possible, from the seat of fracture in this case, that the nerve was also lacerated. If the anatomical arrangement of the parts be considered, it seems curious that this injury does not occur far more frequently. Paralysis of musculo-sjpiral nerve after fractured humerus. A man, set. 36, fell from a waggon and was dragged along some little dis- tance, with his arm under the front wheel. On extricating himself, he found that he was unable to use the limb. A medical man applied a splint, which was kept on for eight days, and then cold compresses were employed. He came up to us twelve days after the injury. The humerus was fractured at the junction of the upper and middle thirds. Corresponding to the upper level of the fracture, a portion of the skin, about two inches in length was gan- grenous. The fracture consolidated in about six weeks, by which time the wound was almost healed. Paralysis of the musculo spiral was found to exist when he attempted to move his arm. The hand and forearm were so swollen on his admission, that the impaired mobility was not at the time suspected to be due to nerve injury. In addition to the total paralysis of the musculo-spiral, paresis of the parts supplied by the median nerve and some of the cutaneous branches was found to exist. No extension whatever could be effected at the wrist or fingers. By means of continued galvanism, the condition was so far improved within a few months that sensation returned in all parts. Flexion of the fingers was not quite perfect. Extension of the hand and fingers could then be slowly effected. This case is, further, one of special interest from the fact that, though the fracture was simple, necrosis of some fragments took place. It would be, perhaps, better to say that the fracture was subfascial instead of subcutaneous, for, as mentioned above, a small portion of the skin was gangrenous though the fascia was unin- jured. The patient was twice attacked by erysipelas after the fracture had united, and abscesses formed about the site of injury; the latter healed up, leaving only a small sinus; on the opposite side of the limb beneath the skin, which was perfectly normal, could be felt some thickening due to invaginating bone; subse- quently, two small sequestra were removed at this spot.