CHAPTER YI. DISEASES OE THE EAR AND THE FRONTAL SINUS. Cases of -.—Caries of petrous bone. Epithelioma of inner ear. Of external ear. Congenital atresia. Distension of frontal sinus—Cases. Case of Emmatoma of frontal sinus. Ear. Under this heading may be mentioned the ease of a man who was admitted with purulent discharge from the ear, caries of the right mastoid process with abscess, and great pain. Some days after admission he had an apoplecti- form attack. I enlarged the fistulous opening in the mastoid process with the chisel, but let out no pus. Extending my opening down to the dura mater subsequently, I thrust a very small, slender knife into the brain, in the hope of evacuating the contents of an abscess of the brain; no pus came. The symptoms remained unaltered, and the patient died shortly after. Caries of the petrous bone with purulent meningitis of moderate extent, and thrombosis of the right transverse sinus were found post mortem. The following case of epithelioma of the inner ear I saw as a private patient, in consultation with Dr. Brunner of Zurich. Erau M—, set. 56, first consulted me in April, 1867. Her previous health had been good. Eor two years she had been troubled with frequent itching and tickling sensations in the right ear, and had been in the habit of constantly scratching the irritating surface in the auditory canal with the end of a hair pin. In the spring of 1866 there was some thin puriform discharge from the ear, with swelling of the walls of the canal, and impairment of hearing. Eor a time she employed hot water douches to the ear at a bathing establishment. The result of this was that she caught a violent cold, and came back to Zurich with further impairment of hearing, and pain in the ear. At the beginning of 1867 she noticed that her face was drawn to the left, and she therefore consulted a medical man, who found her suffering from right facial paralysis and purulent otorrhcea. He removed a granulating mass from the deep part of the ear with a vulsellum. The bleeding, which was considerable, was arrested by a plug of charpie, soaked in Liq. Eerri Sesquichlor. Intense pain and severe inflammation followed this proceeding, but yielded, after a few