403 ACUTE PHLEGMON. GANGHENE. same disease. Case of ditto with lengthening of the limb. Very chronic ostitis. Acute phlegmonous inflammation of the leg. A man, set. 46, received a slight contusion on the shin, not sufficient to first to prevent him from doing his work. A week after the injury he was admitted with all the symptoms of pysemia, and on the following day he died. Post mortem: evidence of chronic alcoholismus was discovered in the cirrhosed liver, and the condition of chronic intestinal catarrh ; in addition abscesses were found in the lungs. A man, set. 54, of intemperate habits, came up to the hospital fifteen days after receiving a slight contusion on the right leg, with an extensive phleg- monous inflammation of the integuments, a portion of which, the size of a florin, was gangrenous. Incisions were made, and the whole of the subcuta- neous cellular tissue of the leg was found to be destroyed and sloughing. Death followed from pyasmia. Suppurative phlebitis was afterwards found in the bones of the leg. In the lungs were recent infarcts and evidence of chronic inflammatory disease. When abscesses form in highly acute cases like the above, it might be well to boldly cauterise the incisions, as well as the surface of the wound. As a rule, the milder cases only run on to suppuration; the worst class prove fatal before abscesses form. We can hardly imagine that the internal exhibition of Liquor Ammoniac, the efficacy of which is so much vaunted in snake-bite, could here be of any avail. In cases like these, amputation is nearly always futile. Spontaneous gangrene from embolism of the popliteal artery. Anna S—, set. 22. Three weeks before admission the patient had been confined of a stillborn child. Some days previous to this she had experienced sudden weakness and pain in the left leg; the limb swelled and became cold and blue, and when admitted into tho hospital the whole of the leg was in a state of moist gangrene. She died of septicsomia about a week afterwards. Endocarditis was found, and tbc embolism was evidently due to a clot which had originated From the mitral valve. The case resembles one already men- tioned, supra, on p. 366. Gangrene from disease of the smaller arteries. A woman, set. was sent in with tho diagnosis “typhus.” Nothing