EEMOVAL OF CANCER OF RECTUM. 255 just be passed through it; the hard masses of new growth were tolerably movable. In October, 1870, I removed the lower end of the rectum. As tho patient was rather anaemic, the operation was performed as far as possible with the galvanic loop. After the diseased portion had been extirpated, I felt high up, on the left side of the wound, a rather hard nodule, the size of a hen’s egg, which I removed partly with the finger, partly with the scissors. Furious haemorrhage followed, and we had the greatest trouble in controlling the bleeding by protracted digital compression andice. During the next twenty- four hours, the patient’s life hung in the balance, and it was only by long-con- tinued stimulation and artificial heat that we were able to keep him alive. Convalescence was slow, but still the wound eventually healed. The patient was again able to retain the faeces, and for some months was restored to very good health. About five months later, the sacrum became tender on pressure and he was frequently attacked with severe pain in this region. The left inguinal glands began to enlarge, and the patient lost strength. 1ST0 recurrence took place locally. When I saw him eight months after the operation the anal opening was very wide. The mucous membrane of the rectum, which was normal in appearance, projected downwards, like a small ectropion ; the patient could retain the faces, when they were not of too thin consistence. Although such cases are more deterrent than encouraging, when we look to the danger of the operation and the rapidity of recurrence, yet I have met with one which dissuades me from giving up extir- pation of the rectum for carcinoma. I was consulted by a lady, set. fi8, for a prolapse of the rectum, of moderate size. I learned from her medical man, who was present at the operation, that, three or four years previously, Schuh had removed with the galvano- caustic loop, a ring-shaped cancer of the rectum, which extended high up the bowel. She had been operated upon also with the knife, by Dr. Low, two years before she consulted Schuh. When I saw her no trace of recurrence had taken place. Except for the local trouble resulting from the removal of the rectum, the lady was perfectly well. As there was no possibility in this instance of any error of diagnosis, the case may be noted as one of permanent cure. While at Vienna I removed the lower end of the rectum in thirty- three cases; once for melano-sarcoma, in all the other instances for carcinoma. Twenty of the patients survived the operation, though most of these died within two years of recurrence : thirteen died of the operation. The severe hujmorrhage attending this operation did