TREATMENT OP CONGESTIVE ABSCESS. 185 from the abscess. This was controlled by pressure after it had recurred three times, but some days later it carried off the little patient. A small perforation was found in the iliac artery, which lay completely exposed on the floor of the abscess. If the skin is thin and reddened over any part of an abscess in the thigh puncture will do no harm. Possibly, also, the abscesses may in some cases be opened at an earlier period without any directly injurious effects. But I can perceive no advantage from early opening, save that the minds of the parents seem to be set at rest. Such cases as these can be but rarely taken into hospital, and even when admitted only kept in for a short time; few families have the means to provide for the daily or even weekly antiseptic dressings. Nearly always a kind of valvular closure of the sinus follows after spontaneous opening; the discharge flows away slowly, usually being little more than serum or very thin pus (curiously enough, this has been ascribed to the antiseptic dressings), and nothing gets in from without. In abscesses that have been allowed to open sponta- neously I have never seen decomposition of the pus occur, even when, as often happened, they were dressed with the dirtiest rags. II hile in Zurich, I saw a case of pyaemia follow the probing and dilatation of a sinus. As a rule, nothing of therapeutical import- ance is learned by probing such abscesses, and the practice is there- fore not one to be advocated. Undoubtedly, cases of caries necrotica of the vertebral column occur where the closure of the sinus is prevented by a sequestrum. Hitherto, however, it has been found impracticable to extract large sequestra from the vertebral column; small sequestra mostly come away of themselves without endangering the life of the patient. It might seem possible to make an incision on one side of the curva- ture, and in this way to extract the sequestrum and gouge away the carious parts, but the haemorrhage cannot be readily controlled, and the spinal cord will be exposed to injury; hitherto I have not ven- tured on the attempt. In children already in a low state, on whom such an operation might be performed as a last resource, there is no prospect of the parts healing up. I have never felt inclined to unc ertakc such a proceeding in children who were tolerably we -nourished, though such an operation, in cases of commencing caries in other bones, yields capital results. Yet with our advanced 'now e ge of the treatment of wounds, and in the face of the un- avoura e prognosis, I should not blame any surgeon for making