243 CASES SIMULATING STRANGULATED HERNIA. mind the striking results of ovariotomy, I think we ought undoubt- edly to decide on laparotomy more frequently in these eases. Enterotomy above the strangulated point is a very unsatisfactory operation, and has not fulfilled the expectations that were enter- tained of it. Cases in which symptoms of strangulation were present though no strangulation existed. S. W—, fct. 43, had noticed a small tumour in the right groin for about twenty years. Fifteen years previously the tumour became very painful on one occasion and she had severe abdominal pain and vomiting. The tumour was reduced by a medical man and the pain and vomiting ceased ; however, she did not take to wearing a truss. The day before her admission into the hospital she was seized with violent pain in the tumour, vomiting and con- stipation. Unsuccessful attempts were made before and on her admission to reduce the tumour by taxis. The swelling was about the size of a walnut, very hard and painful, and situated in the right femoral region. Herniotomy was performed; the hernial sac was so fibrous and thickened that at first I thought it was the uterus. At length I succeeded in opening up a small cavity lined by a smooth, serous membrane, containing nothing. It proved to he an empty hernial sac, the walls of which were fully half an inch in thickness. A ligature was placed around the sac, and it was removed. The symptoms of incarceration disappeared and the patient recovered. Another case of the same sort is the following: A. H—, set. 24, had suffered from lancinating pain on the left side of the abdomen ever since her first pregnancy, which happened when she was twenty years of age. Six days before her admission to the hospital, she was seized with severe pain in the abdomen, which, however, diminished during the next two days, so that she was able, though with some effort, to continue her work. Three days after the commencement of the symptoms, she was forced to take to her bed. She had a constant inclination to vomit. Two days'.before admission, the bowels acted after an enema. On her admission we diagnosed a small, strangulated femoral hernia on the left side, with much flatulent distension. -Taxis was attempted unsuccessfully. Herniotomy was performed, but we found that the tumour consisted only of a thickened and inflamed empty hernial sac with a very narrow cavity. Recovery followed its ligature and removal. The third case, almost exactly similar, occurring in the person of a woman mt. 68, illustrates well the fact that inllammatiou of an old