313 INDICATIONS FOR OPERATION. who have large colloid ovarian tumours ; operation therefore cannot be so urgently counselled. A second point of danger lies in the haemorrhage ; now this, as it seems to me, does not depend so materially on the mere size of the tumour, as on the thickness of the layers of the uterus between the fibroma and the mucous mem- brane. Fibromata, which lie close under the mucous membrane, lead to ulceration of this lining and consequent haemorrhage; such haemorrhage seldom comes directly from the fibroma, but since it proceeds from the mucous membrane of the uterus, appears often under the guise of protracted menorrhagia. There can be no doubt that women with haemorrhage of this nature can be preserved for a long time in very tolerable condition, provided that they are able to rest and take proper precautions; ergotine injections too are especially serviceable in such cases, but apart from the patients to whom such a life would be intolerable, the complete arrest of the haemorrhage becomes an absolute question of existence for women of the working class. Either they must spend the greater part of their life in the hospital, or, if they work, die from the haemorrhage. Thus I find that two of the cases on whom I operated, had wandered from one department to another in the hospital for nearly twoytfars. Directly they were discharged, and began to work again, haemor- rhage recurred, and the unfortunate women lost again in a few days all the strength which they had gained by months of residence in the hospital. I admit theoretically, that in the rules we lay down with regard to the indication for operation, we ought to free ourselves as much as possible from social conditions. Practically, however, we are very often forced to yield to such influences. Failing health and inability to work, combined with want of means of existence drives every one to come to a decision; now this decision is in such cases materially influenced by the fact that it is not with this disease, as with cancer, where operation might be immediately fatal, and can only yield some prolongation of life; on the contrary, from the nature of uterine fibroma, there is a prospect that a successful opera- tion will restore permanent good health, and that the strength which has been lost will be regained, without the dismal prospect in the back-ground of any recurrence of the disease. Up to the present time (1877) I have only operated on patients with fibromata whose existence had become insupportable, either from the immense size of the tumour, or from the hemorrhage, and have for the most