102 TREATMENT OP RANULA. mouth; considerable swelling of the parts beneath the tongue fol- lowed. The sutures were removed after four days, and recovery was permanent in both patients. Formerly, my practice was to lay open the cysts from the mouth, as extensively as possible, and then to unite the wall of the cyst to the mucous membrane of the mouth; where the ranula consists of a sebaceous cyst, I should still do this, having pre- viously washed out the sac thoroughly. Lately, however, I have preferred to pass a thick silk thread from the mouth through the upper wall of the ranula, and then to knot it in the mouth, without drawing the string very tight. If the wall of the cyst is not too thin the threads are allowed to remain three or four weeks; they then fall out, and the cysts shrink up and are cured. Most of these cases were treated as out-patients. They did not usually come before us unless the swelling was very considerable; some- times they did not return for many months after the threads had been inserted, when the latter were found sometimes crusted over, but still in position. If the cyst wall be very thin, and the thread tied very tightly, the latter cuts its way through in a few days, and then the growth is sure to refill. If the operation is con- ducted in the way I have described it is of so trifling a nature that it does not matter if it requires to be repeated, in case the opening in the cyst happens to close up prematurely. The remark- able preponderance of ranula in the female sex is very striking. Congenital papilloma of the tongue. A youth, get. 13, was admitted for a remarkable kind of degeneration of the upper surface of the tongue. The organ was rough, uneven, and covered with growths of various sizes, from oue to two lines in height, composed of soft hypertrophied papilla;. This condition had been observed in a slight degree from the time of birth. From time to time little ulcers had formed and slight bleeding had taken place. Recovery followed after repeated removal with the scissors and galvano-caustic puncture. Sebaceous cyst. A cyst, the size of a bean, which had commenced four months previously, was removed from the upper part of a tongue of a child set. 12; the whiteness of the sac gave the tumour the appearance of a cysticercus, but it proved on microscopic examination to be sebaceous, probably of congenital origin.