399 COMPOUND FRACTURE OF LEG. vessel was then ligatured. Ichorous suppuration took place in the wound, and the sldn wounds partially sloughed. On the tenth day erysipelas attacked the stump, and on the twelfth the wound on the head. He became comatose, and died thirteen days after the injury. The temperature was observed to rise after death. Post mortem : pleurisy of the right side; meningitis and extravasation over the left hemisphere. Compound Fracture of the Leg. (Z. B.) Ninety-three cases of this injury came under my care at Zurich; fifty-seven recovered, and forty-six died. These cases natually vary very much with respect to the extent of injury. We know that it is not always the size of the wound, nor the number of comminuted fragments of the bone, which has to be taken into account in our .prognosis. The result materially depends on the extent and severity of the contusion, the age of the patients, and the conditions under which they are placed and kept directly after the injury. In complicated cases, we are only able to estimate approximately the amount of injury. We sometimes find out more about them during their progress, but then it is often too late. In my table cases only are recorded where the wounds were undoubtedly con- nected with the fracture; these alone should be counted as com- pound fractures. It is not possible to make any classification of the cases according to the severity and importance of the injury. Compound fracture of the leg. Joseph S—, set. 42, was admitted with a fracture of the right leg an inch above the ankle, the result of a fall. The integuments were torn away from the upper fragment an inch and a half. A plaster bandage was applied and open treatment adopted. For eighteen days he went on well, but then swelling and pain occurred, and he became feverish. Incisions were made, a large quantity of foul pus let out, and some fragments of the fibula removed. Two days later htemorrhago occurred from the incisions, and again the day after. The femoral artery was then tied in the middle of the thigh ; gan- grene of the foot ensued, and eventually amputation was performed through the lower third of the thigh. He died a week after the operation. Post mortem: Abscesses were found in the lungs and liver; on both sides of the ligature on the femoral artery were found firm clots.