DirHTHEEITlO INFLAMMATION OF MOUTH. 115 manganate of potash were repeatedly tried. I applied sometimes strong chloride of zinc solution to the fresh wounds. In many cases I united the mucous membrane with sutures in such a way as to establish, for the first few days, a sinus through which the secretions might drain away; but even all these precautions are not sufficient to guarantee against the occurrence of diphtheritic inflammation of the mouth. A remarkable and interesting fact was often noticed at the post-mortem examinations of these cases, namely, the existence of numerous abscesses in the brain. Diffuse meningitis is often found. In two cases, indeed, this latter affection was diagnosed during life from the hemiplegia, which in one instance came on suddenly, as in apoplexy. It seems that in many cases at least the inflammatory process does not extend by thrombosis and embolism, but rather spreads along the sheaths of nerves, such as the lingual nerve. In one instance it was possible to prove this by a preparation. Lobular embolic pneumonia,1 manifested by small lobular inflammatory areas, seems to be the most common direct cause of death in these patients after operation, as also in cases of resection of the lower j aw; it is much less often associated with pleuritic effusion than the small secondary embolic abscesses of the lung. The mere fact that the small bronchi are full of mucus, purulent catarrhal secretion, or blood, does not of itself entail any great danger, so long as the power of expectoration is good. But the minute diphtheritic particles find their way into the bronchi from the wound surface in the mouth (especially when the power of swallowing is impaired), and affect not only the bronchial mucous membrane, but the very substance of the lung. This variety of broncho-pneumonia (capillary bronchial diphtheria) is so much the more injurious, for often for many days there is scarcely any power of expectoration. In 1877 (at Yienna) I gave up the operation for removal of the tongue from the neck, and adopted the plan of cutting through the jaw at the side, and thus obtaining access to the deeper parts, following in this v. Langenbeck’s example, the advantages of which over my own method I fully recognise. I cannot for the present say whether there is any difference in the mortality after the two operations. The results of removal of cancers in this region are, on the whole, very unfavourable as regards recurrence; even very extensive operations give no better results. Only by operating at an earlier period can this state of things be improved. In 1 “ Fremdkorpcr Pneumonie.”