SECOND CASE OE REMOVAL OF PYLORUS. 505 (Through the kindness of Dr. Wolllcr I learnt that this patient died of exhaustion on the 24th May, 1881, nearly four months after the operation. To within a fortnight of her death scarcely any symptoms of indigestion were noticed. The post-mortem examination revealed cancerous degeneration of the peritoneum and infiltration of the retro-peritoneal lymphatic glands. The form of the stomach was similar to that of the normal organ. Further information about the case will be found in the ‘ Wien. Med. Wocli.’ for 28th May, 1881, No. 22, p. 634.—Ed.) Case 2.—Johanna Schonstein, set. 39, was admitted on the 24th February, 1881. For some months she had suffered from indigestion, loss of appetite, sense of weight in the gastric region after taking solid food, and heartburn. Two months before admission she had some circumscribed peritonitis about the gastric region and some induration was noticed under the ribs on the left side. For some weeks she had only been able to take soup, milk, and coffee. The bowels acted once only in six or eight days, and the stools were tarry. The patient had never vomited. When first seen she was very much emaciated and anaemic, having lost ground very much for some time immediately preceding admission. She readily agreed to any operation which gave her a chance of relief from her sufferings. The carcinoma of the stomach seemed to be about the breadth of the palm of the hand, hard, painful on pressure, and tolerably movable. It was situated on the left side, between the umbilicus and the arch of the ribs. The growth evidently had no connection with the liver, but it seemed to be adherent to the abdominal wall. The tongue was rather coated, the pulse small, the temperature normal. The favourable experience of the first case, the youth of the patient, and the fact that the tumour was movable, decided Professor Billroth to operate, or at the least to make a diagnostic incision. The preparatory treatment was the same as in the former case. fcThe operation was modified in the following particulars :—The stomach and the duodenum were not cut through until the occlusion (Plate III, fig. 4 n) as well as the fixation sutures had been inserted. The operation was performed on the 28th February, 1881. A transverse incision, twelve centimetres (four and three quarter inches) in length, was made over the tumour. The growth appeared to be united to the transversalis fascia, a portion of which and of the adherent abdominal wall were left attached to the tumour. The growth was found to invade the pyloric region of the stomach ; as this was drawn forwards the patient vomited up about half a litre of fluid which had been employed to wash out tire stomach. The great and small omenta were then secured with seven and four ligatures respectively. In ligaturing the former, the light gastro-epiploic artery had to bo tied. The stomach was now half cut through with the scissors, beginning at the greater curvature. The pylorus was iso- lated, and sponges and cloths laid behind it. The stomach contained also some undigested remnants of food. The cavity was washed out with lukewarm water and its walls cleansed with disinfected sponges. It was then found that the viscus was exceptionally dilated towards the diaphragm and the left ribs, so that with the longest sponge forceps I could not reach the end. Before the complete division of the stomach twenty-eight deep and