132 FORELGN BODY IN LARYNX—LARYNGOTOMY. Although the child was able to swallow milk and soup in tolerably large quantities, she became more and more marasmic, and died two months after admission. Post mortem: extensive suppuration was found in the oesophagus which was much pouched and sacculated; in one of the pouches was fixed a glass head the size of a small bean. The child had never told us that she had swallowed a bead. It is remarkable that the sound never struck on the foreign body, and that the bead had not become loosened by the suppuration, and fallen into the stomach; in all probability the bead had always remained fixed in the stricture, and the sounds had found a way through by its side. One remarkable case is recorded by Dr. 0. Gussenbauer in the ‘Med. Wochen/ for 1876, p. 20, in which a highly tuberculous man, thirty-four years of age, swallowed the half of a large bent table-knife, probably with suicidal intentions. The knife was ex- tracted by oesophagotomy, but the patient died ten days after the operation of profuse suppuration from the cavity. Foreign lady in the larynx. G. S.—, set. 7, broke by accident a pane of glass; he had a metal trouser button in his mouth at the time; he was so startled by the crash that he swallowed the button. A short time after this he had great dyspnoea; this was somewhat diminished by vigorous slapping on the back. Emetics were given without benefit, and the respiration continued laborious and whistling. Pour days after the accident he was brought to me. Under chloroform the trachea was opened through the conoid ligament; nothing escaped, nor could anything be felt below in the trachea. Above, caught in the left side of the larynx, a metallic body was felt. I bent a loop of wire into the shape of a hook, so as to draw down the substance. At my first attempt I touched it with this, but on trying again was unable to feel the button. Meanwhile the breathing had again become perfectly free. As soon as the child had recovered from the aiuesthetie, he made repeated, apparently purposeless, swallowing movements, and then said “ now it has gone down.” I supposed now that the button had descended into the stomach, and, as a matter of fact, it was passed three days later. Doubtless, I had pushed it back from the larynx and the child had swallowed it. The wound of the larynx soon healed up and the child recovered perfectly. There was no impairment of function in the larynx. Tuberculous infiltration of the upper part of the larynx. A woman, mt. 36, tolerably well nourished, had suffered for some time from hoarseness, cough, and latterly from difficulty of breathing. A nodulated