CASE OE THYROID CYST. 165 tilages of the trachea. If more than ligature and acupressure he required, ice or pressure will control the bleeding. Subcutaneous laceration of bronchoceles, which are firm and solid in consistence, may be with caution employed further, but in soft parenchymatous goitres, which bleed freely on puncture, this method should be entirely rejected. Large prominent bronchoceles in people above forty years of age, with slight or no dyspnoea, should not be operated on just for the sake of appearance. I think that small bronchoceles connected to the lower part of the thyroid in children and young people should be more often removed, especially when their situation is such that the tumour might, with the increased growth, possibly entail some danger. (£ Ziir. Ber./ i860—1867.) J. K—, ret. 45. The bronchocele had originated six years previously on the right side of the neck; the tumour which was the size of the fist had pushed the trachea and carotid artery very much on one side ; the breathing was diffi- cult, and he suffered constantly from tracheal catarrh. The entire right half of the thyroid gland was removed. Death three days later from septicaemia. In two other cases tumours in the middle line of the neck—one the size of a walnut, the other of a goose-egg—were successfully removed. (fWien. Ber./ 1869-70.) Cyst of the thyroid body. M—, set. 40, had noticed the slow and painless development of a tumour on the left side of his neck for fifteen years. The growth had attained the size of a child’s head, without materially interfering with breathing or swallow- ing. Ten days before admission, he was thrown out of a waggon, and struck the tumour a severe blow against the ground; immediately he felt a quantity of fluid pass into the throat, and spat it out. The fluid was of a brown colour. Thereupon, the tumour in the neck disappeared ; evidently a cyst had burst into the pharynx. The patient was at first exceedingly rejoiced at the result of the accident which had apparently cured a long-existing and disfiguring complaint. Shortly afterwards, however, he discovered to his great distress, that anything he swallowed passed into the sac, and but little made its way into the stomach. He was unable, however, to press anything back from the sac into tho throat. The tumour in consequence soon became as large as before, and as the respiration was impeded, a medical man punctured tho tumour with a trochar and let out the fluid. The fluid, according to tho patient’s account, principally collected in the cyst after drinking. Tie was able to swallow sop and Inoth, but could not say whether the food passed into the stomach. When admitted he was in a very weak state ; to restore his strength in some measure