15 FATAL CARBOLIC POISONING. Case.—Erom a patient, E. W., set. 43,1 removed a simple ovarian cyst of moderate size, under 2 per cent, carbolic band spray. The adhesions were few and easily separated: the pedicle, which was thin, was secured with a catgut ligature and allowed to fall back into the abdomen. A drainage tube was passed through Douglas’s pouch, and brought out through the vagina. Lister’s dressings were used. Some blood-stained serum flowed away through the tube the next day, and 2 per cent, carbolic acid solution was syringed in through the tube. The records of the case do not accurately state the number of times that the carbolic was injected nor whether the fluid escaped again freely. The patient felt unduly weak and restless, considering the comparatively simple nature of the operation. The urine was of the usual dark carbolic colour. Eour days later vomiting commenced and the urine was of a very dark green colour: the stools, too, were black. Of course, the carbolic injec- tions and dressings were at once left off; the symptoms however persisted, and the urine, later on, became tinged with blood. Death took place on the tenth day. Post-mortem.—Adhesions of an extensive character were discovered. No absorption of the catgut ligature placed around the pedicle had taken place, nor had the tied portion of the pedicle necrosed. The mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines was pale. Microscopically, nothing abnormal was revealed. In two other instances the same somewhat negative results were yielded by the post-mortem examination. One was the case of a man whose thigh was amputated for a cysto-sarcoma of the tibia, and who died on the third day after the operation; the other (a man, aged 74, who was extensively burnt about the body) died the day after the employment of the carbolic and Lister’s dressings, five days subsequently to the primary injury. In this latter case thfe state of the urine is not recorded; rapid collapse and a temperature of 950 preceded death. The pathological appearances after carbolic-acid poisoning are so equivocal, seeing that we know nothing of the conditions which conduce to death, that we can no more frame a purely anatomical description of carbolic poisoning than we can of chloroform poison- ing. We are limited, therefore, to combining the initial effects of the carbolic acid with the symptoms ushering in death, and in this way to form, from a clinical point of view, a conception of the disease. Those who have perused what I have written above, will not be surprised at my inability to develop any great enthusiasm for the antiseptic method, from which hitherto the employment of carbolic acid could not be dissociated. We have an old saying, that men are wiser on leaving the council, and no doubt many will shrug