276 LITHOTOMY. SUPRA-PUBIC LITHOTOMY. removal of the stone. An annual visit to Carlsbad is of advantage in such cases.1 Lithotomy. On anatomical grounds I have a distinct preference for median lithotomy, and this is the operation for stone with which I have had most success. Lateral lithotomy gives rather more room, and is especially adapted for children with large calculi. It is always a good plan to measure the stone beforehand. There are few more unpleasant surprises than to cut down upon a stone, and find that it cannot be removed on account of its size. In two cases I adopted with advantage the high operation, which has been recommended for stones whose various diameters are not less than one inch and a half. It is quite true that in the high operation, the incision can be carried so far down on either side of the bladder, as almost to bisect the viscus; still it is always difficult to grasp and extract the stone; the wound through the superficial parts must be very large, so that the injury inflicted is very considerable. This opera- tion finds no great favour with me, although formerly, when I was fortunate enough to be v. Langenbeck’s clinical assistant, I was very much taken with it, and it appeared to me to be the ideal of an operation for stone. The cases of supra-pubic operation in children, performed by v. Langenbeck’s masterly hand, did well eventually, but there was much sloughing of the cellular tissue in the neighbourhood of the wound. After the slough separated the wound granulated up well and closed rapidly, but, the children were always very ill after the operation, and suffered far more than when subjected to median or lateral lithotomy. After these latter opera- tions the parts healed up, in the majority of cases very rapidly, sometimes, indeed, by first intention. Children are scarcely upset at all, but are well almost from the moment of operation. As may be supposed the cases do not always run such a favourable course; indeed, this is shown in the records of my own clinic. To enable the urine to flow away easily through the wound, all kinds of methods have been adopted. In unfavourable cases the 1 This essay is contained in tlie ‘Wien. Benefit ’ for 1871—1876, pub- lished at Berlin in 1879, and relates to practice before litfiolapaxy was intro- duced. See infra, p. 279, for remarks on Litholapaxy. [Ed.]