302 COMPLICATIONS OP OVARIAN CYSTS. of operating; gradually also, as I became practised in the details ol the operation, I acquired a calmness when confronted with difficulties, which has been of great advantage to my later patients* On the other hand, I lost many of these bad cases, and, becoming- sceptical as to the value now of this now of that point of detail, on the vital importance of which stress had been laid, I was con- stantly wavering between one method and another. I may say that it was not till I had performed the operation nearly a hundred times that I was led to the conviction, that in few other operations does so much depend on the operator's individual experience, seeing that the number of complications is so multitudinous. After a series of severe cases, which progressed favourably I hardly selected my cases any longer; still, I declined to operate on solid sarcomatous or cancerous tumours with extensive connections to the pelvis. In two such cases in which I operated, recurrence quickly followed, and the patients only survived for a few months. Irregular nodulated cancerous growths associated with much ascites., at times appear to be very moveable, but they are usually united to the omentum and small intestine by adhesions. Not only is the actual operation on such cases very dangerous (five patients on whom I operated all died of peritonitis), but so many nodules will often be found on the intestines, and on the inner surface of the abdominal walls, that we are hardly justified in attempting removal. Even if the operation be successful, there is but little prospect of prolonging life. Tabes dorsalis when associated with ovarian cysts is a dangerous complication. One case of this nature died of gangrenous bed- sores. Of two patients who suffered from Bright's disease at the time of operation one recovered and one died three years later of general dropsy. Pleuritic effusion, which not uncommonly exists in connection with large ovarian tumours, does not contraiudicate operation; the effusion seems sometimes to be caused by the pressure of the tumour, and is rapidly absorbed after operation. Chronic bronchial catarrh is a fatal complication, since the cough may lead to abdominal pain and secondary haemorrhage from vessels in the adhesions which did not bleed at the time of operation. I have hitherto met with no cases where ovarian cysts were associated with tubercular disease of the lungs. When symptoms of suppuration in the cyst occur, the surgeon is placed in a serious dilemma. Such an untoward occurrence when arising spontaneously is met with