TREATMENT OE SIMPLE FRACTURES OF LEG. 391 Fractures oe the Leg. In these cases a plaster-of-Paris bandage was invariably applied at the earliest opportunity. It is sometimes said that plaster bandages materially interfere with the formation of callus, and render the patient liable to pseudarthrosis. With regard to this statement, I can only say that in healthy subjects, out of eighty-six cases, I only met with six where the amount of union after six weeks was insufficient to allow the patients to stand on the limb. The patients are able as a rule, to get about on crutches within this period; in the six cases mentioned (in four of which the fracture was in the upper third of the leg1) no pseudarthrosis formed. At the same time, it is undoubtedly true, that if an unyielding bandage be applied early, and much pressure exerted, the formation of the external callus is interfered with, and union is thereby delayed. But this method appears to exercise no injurious effect on the formation of the definitive callus; still, the early application of the plaster bandage has innumerable advantages, both to the patient and to the surgeon. In fact, my statistics show that the causes of pseud- arthrosis are not to be found in the early treatment by rigid apparatus, as has been unreasonably asserted; the cause lies deeper, and depends upon the conditions of nutrition of the patients. Fracture oe the Lower end of the Fibula. Fractures of the lower part of the fibula, with the luxation-like dislocation which is often very considerable in these cases, used formerly to occasion a great deal of trouble in treatment. Even now, oblique union is more common after this fracture than after any other which I have met with. By means of an anaesthetic and a well- applied plaster bandage, the difficulty in treating these cases can be completely overcome, that is, with competent assistance. For the consolation of my colleagues, to whom this latter requisite is not always forthcoming, and who have seen such fractures unite obliquely under their splints and bandages, I may add, that these 1 And in which the nutrient artery of the hone may havo been injured, thus causing, as Mr. Curling has shown, delayed union of the fracture.—[Ed.]