58 NEURALGIA OF INFRAORBITAL NERVE. Fourteen months later, he came back; he could then walk, but with a dragging gait; the sphincters were now under control, and the paralysis of the upper extremity was improved ; in other parts it was unaltered. Six years after the ligature of the artery I saw him again. There was then a good deal of wasting of the right side, especially of the arm; he could not pronate nor supinate the hand, and the fingers were flexed; the sensation of the skin and muscles was greater on the affected than on the sound side, and the reaction to an electro-motor stimulus was also greater on this side. Faradisation was employed to the arm, and a constant current along the course of the left sympathetic in the neck. Distinct, though slight improve- ment, followed this treatment.1, Parasitic sycosis of the clan. This disease was met with in the person of a small house proprietor in a Hungarian village, who tended his cows himself. The disease was new to me. There was an ulcer, the size of a florin, somewhat resembling epithelioma, but with soft edges; pus, not unlike the matter in comedones, could be pressed out, especially from the root sheaths of the hairs of the beard, over the diseased parts. The hairs came out very easily; on their sheaths were many fungi, somewhat larger than the spores of herpes tonsurans. Recovery soon followed on the removal of the hairs and the application of a mixture of sulphur and glycerine. Section B.—Neurotomy and Neurectomy. Case of neuralgia of the infra-orbital nerve; neurotomy. Case of neuralgia of the fifth nerve, treated by repeated operations ; death. Cases of neuralgia of the fifth nerve, treated by neurectomy and neurotomy. Case of neuralgia of third division of fifth nerve; haemorrhage after operations; ligature of carotid; optic-nerve atrophy. Remarks on neuralgia of the fifth nerve. Etiology. Treatment. Neurotomy. Neurectomy. Herr B—, set. 46, had for twelve years suffered from neuralgia of the right infraorbital nerve; the attacks of pain, which were accurately limited to the distribution of this nerve, were excited by touching the cheek with the tongue by eating, plucking the beard, &c. Owing to the complaint the patient was only able with great difficulty to gain his livelihood as a clerk and writing master. No cause could be assigned for the affection; in other respects lie was perfectly well. The teeth were unusually perfect and good. He had 1 The case will be found fully recorded in Prof. Schuh’s collected works, p. 906. In the ‘ Archiv fiir klin. Chir.,’ Bd. xiii, p. 379, is recorded an interest- ing case of epileptic attacks following injury of the right sciatic nerve.