CONTENTS. XV PAGE nccted with bone. Ditto opening into gluteal artery. Remarks on pelvic abscess. Cases of retro-peritoneal abscess. Case of caries of pelvis with retention of urine. Chronic periostitis and caries of pelvis—Cases and remarks. Inflammation of inguinal lymphatic glands. Case of inguinal abscess bursting into the bladder. Case of cystic enchondroma. Case of large osteo- chondroma; removal, transfusion, death. Large enchondroma of the pelvis; removal; death on seventh day. Cases of pulsating sarcoma of pelvis. Sarcoma of the pelvic cavity pressing on the bladder; operation to relieve retention. Case of spindle-celled sarcoma of nates. Case of cancerous degeneration of a congenital coccygeal tumour ..... 320 CHAPTER XVI. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Section A.—Injuries.—Cases of frost-bite. Case of paralysis and atrophy of arm after injury. Cases of paralysis of the musculo- spiral nerve after contusion. Case of contusion of the elbow— death. Contusion of wrist—-excision. Contusion of arm—death. Injuries of the hand and fingers—Cases. Wounds of the hand. Fracture of the clavicle—treatment. Fracture of neck of the humerus—treatment. Fractures of lower end of humerus—treat- ment. Badly united fractures—Cases. Case of paresis after oblique fracture of radius and ulna. Case of ankylosis after frac- ture. Fracture of lower end of radius. Cases of pseudarthrosis. Paralysis of musculo-spiral nerve after fracture of humerus—Cases and remarks. Paralysis from the use of crutches. Dislocation of humerus—death. Paralysis and atrophy after dislocation of humerus. Cases of irreducible dislocation; paralysis after disloca- tion. Dislocations of ulna; of thumb. Penetrating wound of shoulder-joint—excision. Case of multiple pyaemia—recovery. Case of penetrating wound of elbow-joint. Seven cases of com- pound fracture of elbow—remarks .... Section B.—Acute and Chronic Inflammations.— Acute non- traumatic inflammations—general remarks. Case of acute rheu- matic disease of wrist. Case of acute osteomyelitis. Necrosis of the bones of the upper extremity. Ganglion. Cases of tenosyno- vitis—treatment. Case of onychogryphosis. Chronic malignant onychia. Case of elephantiasis. Case of syphilitic ulceration. Doubtful case of gangrene of fingers. Gangrene of puerperal oifigin. Case of chronic periostitis. Chronic disease of shoulder and elbow-joints. Remarks on excision. Arthritis deformans. Disease of shoulder-joint — excision. Subperiosteal axsision of