401 DISLOCATION OP HIP: OF ASTRAGALUS. 'the hones before the displacement could he corrected. Open treatment was adopted, and he recovered in five months with a limited amount of active and passive movement in the joint. A somewhat similar injury was observed in a boy, who had been run over by a waggon. A plaster bandage with a window was applied. On the third and fourth days after the injury he had rigors, followed eight days later by thrombosis of the saphena vein and gangrene of the toes. Death from pysemia on the twelfth day. Abscesses were found in the lungs, and breaking-down coagulations in the veins. Compound fracture at the anlcle-joint. Antiseptic treatment. A man, set. 44, was admitted with this injury; resection was found neces- sary before tbe tibia could be reduced. Under antiseptic treatment he recovered rapidly. A man, set. 60, with the same sort of injury, but who had made a long journey from Hungary, and was only admitted three days after the accident, was treated in the same way. Septic phlegmonous infiltration followed. On the eleventh day after the injury the thigh was amputated, but the patient, who was already in a pysemic state, died three days afterwards. Old dislocation of the hip-joint. A man, set. 43, was admitted with a dislocation of the hip on to the dorsum of the ilium, of 134 days’ standing. The injury was not recognised at the time of the accident. Two days after his admission (the 136th day) reduc- tion was with some difficult effected, under an anaesthetic, by manipulation. A month later the patient went home, and was able to walk fairly well, though not without a stick. Dislocation of hip. A man, set. 27, fell from a ladder and dislocated the head of the femur over the foramen ovale. Reduction was effected by manipulation. The fii'st movements seemed to shift the head of the femur on to the dorsum ilii. Under an anaesthetic flexion and outward rotation effected reduction. In a child, set. 11, with a dislocation of the femur upwards and backwards of three months’ date, reduction was found impossible. Dislocation of the astragalus. Reduction. Necrosis. ^ A man, set. 29, was admitted with complcto dislocation of the astragalus. The bone was displaced outwards and forwards, and the skin over it stretched 2G