DEVIATION OF THE SEPTUM NAHIUM. 77 Section D.—Plastic Surgery of the Pace, Nose, and Mouth. Remarks on deviation of the septum narium. Case of salivary fistula. Treatment of hare-lip. Treatment of cleft palate. Deformities treated by plastic operations. Cicatricial contrac- tions of mouth—Cases. Case of ectropium and corneitis. Rhinoplastic operations. Case of repeated operations. Deviation of the septum narium. This condition is usually congenital, and is accompanied by a peculiar typical obliquity of the nose. Sometimes, however, a similar condition results from blows on the nose, causing fracture or bending of the septum. Only three of these cases were treated inside the hospital, but many came under notice as out-patients and in private practice. Formerly, I used to endeavour to correct the deviation of the septum and to keep it straight by the insertion of small wooden or ivory wedges into the nasal cavities, after separat- ing the cartilaginous and bony part of the septum. This process is long and tedious, and, moreover, it completely failed in a patient of mine in Zurich; nothing material was gained after six weeks of torment. Since then, therefore, I have abandoned this treatment. If the blocking of the nasal cavity, owing to the bent septum, is very troublesome, I make a hole large enough to admit a pea through the bent part, so that the patients at least have the sub- jective sensation of breathing through both nostrils; with this con- dition of things they were always very well satisfied. This little operation requires some delicacy. Were not the cases so rare, it would be worth while to have a kind of nippers constructed, some- thing like those used by railway guards to clip the tickets. I have usually managed with the aid of a two-edged knife and a pair of curved scissors, but the effect is not always quite satisfactory. The opening should be made rather high up, so that it cannot be seen. At the upper part, however, the septum is so strong that it is not easily cut through. In young persons the opening ought to be at least large enough to admit a pea, otherwise it is apt to be-