129 TEAUMAUTIC STRICTURE OP THE OESOPHAGUS. the result of swallowing some caustic soda. It was only just possible to pass a small instrument through it. The instrument had been passed several times, and one morning went through so easily that I passed immediately after a thicker conical sound. This was introduced slowly, but not without some little pressure and difficulty : the patient suddenly complained of intense pain, whereupon the instrument was immediately withdrawn. The same day he became very feverish, and complained of piercing pains in his right side ; the breathing too became very laborious, and pleurisy, with some effusion on the right side, was discovered. In the course of the next few days, the pleu- ritic effusion increased, the patient became collapsed, and died. Post mortem: pleurisy was found on the right side, as we had expected, and some mediasti- nitis at the back, but there was no injunj to any part of the oesophagus. The dilatation, although gradual, had evidently set up inflammation of the cellular tissue around the stricture, which by continuity of structure had extended to the pleura. This process was new to me in the case of the oesophagus, though I had occasionally seen it in the treatment of urethral strictures. My colleague, Rokitansky, who had the kindness to examine the preparation, and was able to convince himself that there was no laceration of the oesophagus, not even an abrasion of the mucous membrane, informed me that he had already seen similar cases; he suspected that, in consequence of the stretching of the cicatricial tissue of the stricture, some injurious matter had filtered through from the oesophagus into the mediastinal cellular tissue, and had there set up inflammation. Traumatic stricture of the oesophagus. M. L—, set. 4, bad a stricture of the oesophagus, resulting from swallowing some caustic soda five months previously. This was dilated by means of bougies, and the child became able to swallow its food with tolerable ease. She came to us with the history that she had been unable to swallow any- thing for twenty-four hours. A medical man had repeatedly endeavoured to introduce a bougie, but had been unable to get through the stricture. The attempts had given the child much pain, and caused some bleeding. When admitted the patient was much collapsed, the temperature low, pulse scarcely perceptible, and the face cyanosed ; the tissues of the neck emphy- sematous, and dyspnoea marked. We diagnosed perforation of the oesophagus and consequent inflammation of the deep cellular tissue of the neck. Tracheotomy was immediately performed, but the child died the same -evening. The stricture was found afterwards to lie on a level with the ciicoid cartilage. At this point there was a perforation of the oesophagus, leading into the posterior mediastinum, in which a cavity full of blood was found. 9