VARIETIES OF BRONCHOCELE. CYSTIC BRONCHOCELE. 157 1 ‘ Billr. Path.,’ Hackley’s Trans., p. 639. following observations :—We have to distinguish—(i) The diffused, commonly bilateral hypertrophies which are vulgarly termed “ thick neck ” (Dicke Hals). This affection is infinitely common, without giving rise to any serious trouble. Such cases require no operative treatment. In young persons they can be improved at their commencement by energetic treatment by iodine, but can seldom be dispersed entirely. (2) Bronchoceles which are circumscribed glandular hypertrophies, tuberous adenoma or cysto-adenoma; these may occur singly, but are often multiple. The rest of the thyroid gland may be perfectly normal, though it is usually rather hypertrophied. (3) Pure cystic bronchocele. (4) Carcinoma of the thyroid—“struma carcinomatosa.” There is no need to employ a special term for the so-called “ struma aneurismatica.”1 In nearly all the multiple tumours of the thyroid which have existed for some time, the supplying arteries are much dilated. Cystic bronchocele.—There is usually little difficulty in recog- nising a pure primary cystic bronchocele if the tumour is of any size and pushes forward prominently. By primary cystic broncho- celes I mean those which are composed of a single smooth-lined sac, secreting usually a dull yellow or brownish fluid of viscid consistence. They are developed by hyper-secretion in the separate vesicles of the thyroid gland, which then coalesce : sometimes they form in a single vesicle. They may attain the size of a man’s head, and though not infrequently on one side, usually lie in the middle line of the neck. There are other kinds of cystic bronchoceles with contents similar to the foregoing, which have a rough lining, and originate in the parenchymatous gland tissue. These cysts develop by mucoid softening in the swollen parenchymatous tissue ; in addition to this softening a central process of contraction is common enough in bronchoceles. The walls of the cysts may calcify. It is often a matter of great difficulty to diagnose cysts formed by softening. A puncture with an exploring trocar is often needed in order to clear up the diagnosis, for when the bronchocele is very soft and the capsule tense, the feeling of fluctuation cannot be dis- tinguished from that of a cyst containing fluid. The puncture in such cases does not always let out much fluid, for these cyst walls have frequently but little elasticity. More rarely in parenchy- matous bronchoceles it happens that the whole substance becomes