324 CHRONIC PERIOSTITIS : RETENTION OF URINE. quantity of thick pus. Convalescence was very slow, but eventually it was complete, and the contraction of the leg disappeared ; the patient—who was at one time emaciated to skin and bone, with flushed, hectic cheeks, hollow voice, and looking as if he had only a few days to live—is now one of the finest and strongest officers in the army. Chronic periostitis and caries of the pelvis, with retention of urine. A peasant, set. 18, suffered from a large abscess on the left side of the os sacrum ; this was accompanied by retention of the urine requiring the daily use of the catheter. After three weeks the abscess, which had reached the size of the fist, was opened; the edges of the sciatic notch, and the inner surface of the sacrum, were felt exposed and roughened. After the opening of the abscess the patient recovered the power of micturition, and the cavity completely closed up in about four months. J. S—, set. 24, a baker, was admitted into the hospital for a pain in the sacral region, from which he had suffered for some time, and the nature of which could not he positively ascertained. After resting for a time the patient was again able to get about his business, but the pains had not entirely deserted him. Two of his brothers and a sister had been affected with glandular abscesses and caries. Some affection of the vertebral column was suspected. Two years before his admission, as he was lifting a heavy weight, he felt an intense pain behind the right trochanter, “ as if something had given wayshortly after this the right lower limb began to swell and became painful. After a few weeks’ rest in bed the diffused swelling and the pain subsided, but a circumscribed, soft, painless tumour was observed at the upper part of the thigh. The patient went back to his work, and in the course of the next two years the tumour gradually sank lower and lower on the back of the thigh. When admitted we found a sac full of fluid, almost the size of a man’s head, in the right ham. By exercising pressure on it a wave could be felt, conducted along a canal of about the dimensions of the thumb, leading right up to the tuberosity of the ischium. (See Pig. 17.) The swelling gave the patient no real trouble, but he wished to get rid of it, as he intended to marry. I came to the conclusion that the swelling was due to a very large congestive abscess, which had commenced in the pelvis. I acceded to the patient’s wish, and let out an immense quantity of thin pus by means of a trocar, taking care not to admit the air. At first all went on well, but then, probably from the patient’s disobeying the injunctions to keep quiet, severe inflammation ensued; the suppurating track had to be laid open in several places and drainago tubes inserted. The patient’s con- dition became highly febrile, rigors ensued, and the amount of suppuration was prodigious. I gave him up as beyond recovery, and allowed him, at his own desire, to be romoved home. A year later I heard that he had com- pletely recovered health and strength, and was pursuing his avocation.