CASE OF CEREBRAL ABSCESS. 37 over the left parietal bone was torn up, together with the periosteum, so that the bone was exposed over an extent the size of the palm of the hand. Con- sidering his advanced age, the patient went on better at first than might have been expected. Two months after the injury a fragment of bone, an inch square, was removed, which included the whole thickness of the skull. The brain pulsations were visible after the removal of the sequestrum. Two weeks after this he was attacked with erysipelas of the head and face, and abscesses ■formed at several spots. He rallied a little from this attack, but was reduced to a very low condition, and died on the ioist day after the injury with sym- ptoms of purulent meningitis. Post mortem : “ A number of perforations were found in the parietal bone, some the size of a bean, some of a sixpence; in other parts the outer lamella only was left, rough and of a faint yellow colour. The dura mater thickened, the outer surface of the membrane corresponding to the perforations in the vault, covered with yellow breaking-down granula- tions. Brain anmmic aud wet. In the right iliac vein a thrombus, which had caused some oedema of the lower extremity of the same side.” A. B—, ret. 31, a labourer, fell backwards from a waggon. Por half an hour he was insensible, then quickly recovered consciousness. A wound an inch long over the left parietal eminence healed up rapidly, with the exception of a small suppurating opening. The patient was about to return to his work, when—twelve days after the injury—he was seized with violent headache, and, two days later, when brought back to the hospital he was unconscious. All the symptoms pointed to severe meningitis; fluctuation was felt beneath the cicatrix. An incision let out some thin pus, and the bone below was found to be exposed. We diagnosed a contusion of the brain, with meningitis and suppuration beneath the site of injury. He wafc trephined on the fifteenth day. The moment the cranial cavity was opened a stream of pus gushed out. Ho improvement or consciousness followed, and he died on the following evening—five days after the onset of the acute secondary meningitis. Post mortem: ‘‘Purulent infiltration of the diploe in the neighbourhood of the injury; diffuse purulent meningitis on the left side, with pus in the veins of the dura mater. Convolutions flattened. A large number of abscesses in both lungs.” Abscess of the brain following head injury without fractured skull. A strong carman, ret. 30, was admitted, having been run over three days pre- viously, with a wound over the right parietal eminence. The patient picked him- self up immediately after the injury, went home, aud applied cold compresses to the wound. On the third day the wound began to suppurate, and he applied to a doctor, who advised him to go to the hospital. On admission wc found a semicircular flap, three inches long, torn up from the skull. The bone was exposed, but no fissure could be seen., Six days after the injury slight right facial paralysis appeared, which soou became complete. This was succeeded by stiffness of the muscles at the back of the neck, the head being constantly bent