405 GANGRENE FROM UNKNOWN CAUSE. moist, and extended more and more rapidly, involving all tlie parts up to the heel. In spite of all kinds of tonics, locally and internally, the patient died of intense marasmus two months after admission. The post mortem was most carefully made by Professor Iiindfleisch. No disease could he found, in any organ, but there was the most marked general anaemia. The spleen, was not enlarged; the blood was thin and watery, but not containing an excess of leucocytes. The muscular substance of the heart was flabby, hut not fatty.1 Gangrene from some unknown cause. Frau G—, set. 37, came under my care in 1863. She had been married,, and had born three children, but had been a widow for some years. Two years before her admission she suffered from occasional pain in the legs* sometimes lasting for a few days, sometimes for weeks. A year previously the left little toe had become inflamed ; suppuration occurred, but the parts all healed up. Seven months previously she had suffered from severe dart- ing pains in the leg, which sometimes confined her to her bed for days- together. This was followed by suppuration between] the fourth and fifth toes, which again healed up. Four months before admission (in the month of June) suppuration again occurred at the former seat of disease, and was followed by gangrene of both the toes. These were removed by a sur- geon. The wound would not heal, and the gangrenous process gradually extended over the toes and foot. Her strength began to fail, and when she was admitted into the hospital she was in a very reduced state—greatly ema- ciated and with sloughing bed-sores over the sacrum. By the greatest care and attention she was brought round. The left foot separated at the ankle- joint, and subsequently the articular surfaces of the tibia and fibula were sawn off; the tissues left were insufficient to cover the end of the stump. She suffered more from the bed-sores, however, than from the gangrene of the foot. There were sores on the sacrum, over both trochanters, the sca- pulae, patellae, elbows—in short, everywhere. For weeks she lay on her face, till bed-sores formed over the anterior superior spine. I never before saw anybody reduced to so fearful a state through decubitus. Had it not been for a good English water-pillow she must have died. Eight months after her admission she was discharged strong and well. A year later I saw the patient, stout, active, and in good health. I exerted myself to the utmost to discover some reason for the. gangrene in this patient; there were no abnormal symptoms about, the heart; the arteries were of normal dimensions and the pulse- strong. Both the femoral arteries were pervious down to the ham. Her neighbours said of her, that she drank a good deal. It is true she was in the habit of drinking from two to three “ schoppen ” of 1 Cf. a case recorded by Nddopil in the ‘ Wiener Med. Woch.,’ 1878.