146 EXTIRPATION OF CASEOUS GLANDS. 2. Ail the glands that can be got at may be removed, together with their capsules. It need hardly be pointed out that caution is necessary in such operations; they are simple and easy of per- formance when the capsules are not too firmly united to the sur- rounding parts, and can be detached without cutting. Such operations, however, may cause anxiety to the most experienced surgeon, as he proceeds step by step with his knife, the more so if he is working in close proximity to the large vessels of the neck; moreover, they may become very formidable by their long duration and loss of blood. I have never lost a patient from collapse, but I have often had occasion, owing to the weakness of the patient, to break off and complete the operation on a subsequent occasion. If the glands were enlarged on botli sides, I always removed each set separately. I almost invariably make my incision along the anterior or posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle. By extending this incision longitudinally sufficient space can always be obtained. In removing glands in this way, the operator will often find himself in close proximity to the internal jugular vein; this vessel is much more easily displaced by the glands than the carotid artery or the vagus nerve; its wall, too, more readily becomes connected to the capsules of the glands than the sheaths of the arteries and nerves. In four cases I divided the internal jugular vein between a double ligature, and no untoward results followed. Secondary haemorrhage, however, often followed in cases where a small puncture had been made through the wall of the vein and the side of the vessel secured, or where branches of the veins less than a centimetre in length were tied. I consider myself very fortunate only to have lost one patient from secondary haemorrhage of this nature. In operations about the cervical glands, as well as in dealing with those in the axilla, I make it a rule, if any small puncture be made in the wall of a vein or if short branches be wounded, always to expose the vessels thoroughly and divide them between a double ligature. I consider such a proceeding far less dangerous than the apparently less severe plan of ligaturing the side of the vein. The latter method sometimes succeeds, but often the adhesion gives way, and the short thrombus becomes detached; haemorrhage then occurs, tampons have to be applied, and extensive thrombosis—with possibly serious consequences—is the result. I have never seen any injurious disturbance to the circulation result from ligature of the jugular vein.