251 ATRESIA ANI. FISTULA IN ANO. at one point a round opening, two millimetres in diameter, ending in a stel- late-shaped cicatrix, leading to the above-mentioned suppurating area. A little above this, another opening, leading to the same point.” Atresia ani. A child three days old was admitted with enormous distension and icterus. The lower end of the rectum could not he fonnd; an artificial anus was made in the sigmoid flexure. The child died nine days after the operation. Fistula in ano, treated by galvano-cautery. This was the case of a very wretched, anaemic woman, about thirty years of age, who had suffered from haemoptysis, and had at the time of operation, a considerable amount of bronchial catarrh. She had also had repeated attacks of peritonitis. I had twice declined to operate, on account of her weakly con- dition. She had three moderately long fistulae, which occasioned her such intensely severe pain (a symptom which hitherto I had very rarely seen) that she was constantly seeking advice. The pain was only partially relieved by morphia suppositories, and the administration of this drug caused headache and vomiting. At last I decided to divide the fistula carefully with the galvano- cautery. I succeeded in doing this without the loss of a single drop of blood. It was some time, however, before the wound healed and the patient then returned home free from pain. The frequency of affections of the rectum, especially of fistula in ano, in Vienna, was to me a matter of some surprise. I was struck, also, with the number of cases in which this disease was combined with tuberculosis of the lungs. I had not met with this previously either in Berlin or at Zurich, and it was only in Vienna that I was first able to appreciate the advice of the older surgeons to abstain from operating on fistulas in tubercular cases. Judging from the small, short fistulae, which I had previously met with once in a way, such counsel had seemed to me excessive pedantry. The geographical distribution of surgical diseases is far more irregular than any one who had always practised in one locality would suppose. Fistula Becti et Ani. Of fifty-eight cases met with at Vienna, nine were operated on with the galvano-caustic wire loop. In two the fistulas were com- plicated by moderately tight stricture. These were divided, and