250 PERFORATING ULCER OP RECTUM. toneum becomes infected and septic peritonitis is set up, which, previously, in all probability could not have taken place. Much of course depends on the firmness and extent of the fibrinous adhesions shutting off the herniated part from the rest of the intestine. On this account I consider it, therefore, far better to open the sac on all occasions, to let out the fluid, and then to disinfect the protruding strangulated intestine by careful washing with carbolic acid. This should be done before the constriction is divided. The intestine should then be allowed to slip in, care being taken to avoid, as far as possible, cramming it back, or pushing it too far into the abdominal cavity with the fingers. Section C.—Diseases of the Rectum. Case of perforating ulcer of rectum. Atresia ani. Case of fistula in ano. Operations for fistula in ano. Case of prolapsus recti. Treatment of haemorrhoids. Removal of rectum for cancer. Case of malignant stricture of rectum. Case of permanent recovery after removal of rectum. Cancer of rectum—Treatment. Ferf orating ulcer (?) of the rectum ; death from septicaemia. Francois J—, set. 43. As far as could be made out from tliis man’s account? be had suffered for ten days from pain in the perinseum. He had never had any difficulty in micturition, hut had been troubled at times with haemor- rhoids. Though a strongly built man, he was in a weak, apathetic state when admitted, with sunken features, rapid, small pulse, and low tempera- ture. The parts in the neighbour-hood of the rectum and perinseum, and the posterior part of the scrotum were gangrenous. The urethra and the bladder were normal, and nothing wrong could be felt in the rectum, though this examination gave him a good deal of pain. Incisions were made into the gangrenous part, and diffused purulent infiltration of the cellular tissue found everywhere. He died on the fourteenth day of septicaemia. The post- mortem report was as follows:—“ On the right side, in the neighbourhood of the rectum, an irregular suppurating area, the size of the fist, extending back to the base of the bladder. The skin of the penis highly cedematous, and infiltrated with pus; the urethra perfectly normal. Two centimetres in front of the gangrenous portion of the urethra an abscess in the corpus caver- nosum, about the size of a walnut, containing dark foul pus. Urinary bladder normal. In the rectum some luemorrlioidal tumours of moderate size;