456 POPLITEAL ANEU1IISM : ARTERIAL CLAMP: LIGATURE. going upstairs, lie felt the same pain as before. A pulsating tumour the size of a goose egg again appeared iu the popliteal space, and increased with rapidity up to admission, being especially aggravated by a long journey to Vienna. The patient, on admission, was strong and well nourished; the heart healthy ; the radial arteries a little tortuous ; the left leg Hexed at the knee, and codematous at the lower part. The entire popliteal space was occu- pied by a pulsating tumour the size of a foetal head. By means of digital compression all pulsation in the aneurism was stopped, but the leg became livid and cold. The part where the pressure was applied became so tender that the patient would not submit to the treatment any longer, and the pulsation returned as before. I then exposed the femoral artery at the inner border of the sartorius and applied my arterial clamp (described in the author’s ‘ Kriegschirurgischen Briefe,’ p. 160). As the instrument was well home, I tightened it until the pulsation in the aneurism ceased. Three days later I relaxed the clamp a little, but the pulsation immediately returned, and I found that no clot had formed either at the seat of pressure or below the clamp. After the clamp had been applied for five days I introduced a fine acupuncture needle into the aneurism, in order to satisfy myself whether any circulation was going on deep down. That this was the case was proved by the distinct pulsation of the needle. Suspecting that the pressure of my instruments had not completely controlled the circulation through the aneu- rism—probably owing to a too free collateral circulation—and fearing lest too long-continued pressure should lead to sloughing of the artery, I removed the clamp. The instrument was hardly taken off when the artery recovered its cylindrical shape, proving that no thrombus had formed at this spot. The pulsation and the pain recurred again at once. A day or two later severe haemorrhage took place" from the wound ; the nurse compressed the artery effectively beneath Poupart’s ligament, and the vessel was secured by two ligatures. On tying the upper thread the haemorrhage ceased; the lower thread was not drawn tight, but left in the wound for precaution. The next morning the aneurism no longer pulsated but was tense and the skin dis- coloured. As I feared that the clamp might have caused the artery to slough, I exposed the vessel freely, passed a double ligature under it, and removed a portion of the vessel an inch in length. This piece was of a greyish colour, and perforated by a small aperture corresponding to the lower claw of the clamp. Pyrnmia developed after the operation, and he died a fortnight later. Post mortem: suppurating thrombosis was found in the femoral vein, and metastatic abscesses in the lungs and brain. An opening of the diameter of a bean formed the communication between the popliteal artery and the aneurism ; the rest of the vessel was healthy. Popliteal aneurism; compression ; ertjoline injection. Joseph B—, a3t. 40, a labourer. Two years previously he had noticed pain in the right popliteal space occurring from no known cause. When admitted he had an aneurism the size of a fu'tal head ; the knee was flexed, and the leg cedematous. Compression was at once commenced. In the course of a