398 COMPOUND FRACTURE OF THIGH. Ununitecl fracture of the leg : operation: death. J- H. , ast. 31, a turner, a tolerably strong man, fell from a waggon and sustained a simple fracture of tlie right leg about the centre. The limb was put up at first in splints and then in plaster. When he came up to the hospital fifteen weeks after the injury, the fragments were still perfectly movable on each other and the limb was rather cedematous. The patient was pale and wasted. Movement of the fragments gave no pain; the lower fragment was drawn up to the inner side of the upper one. I cut down by a small incision on the lower end of the upper fragment, and passed a plated screw through both fragments so as to fix them together. The limb was then put up in well-padded hollow splints and ice applied. On the fourth day after the operation severe inflammation commenced around the screw, and a large, deep, foul abscess developed. The patient died of pyaemia on the thirtieth day. Compound Fracture op the Thigh. The following case of recovery is perhaps unique, when the extensive nature of the injuries is taken into consideration. A woman, set. 23, in the third month of pregnancy, was admitted with a compound fracture of the thigh, one of the fragments of which penetrated the skin on the inner side. The injury was caused by the fall of a mass of earth from a railway embankment, beneath which she was buried. Her husband, who was working close to her, was dead when dug out. The patient had sustained the following injuries : compound fracture of the right thigh, extensive contused wounds of the thigh, dorsum of the foot and the face, compound fracture of the right great toe, simple fracture of the left leg and some of the phalanges of the left foot, contused wound of the left thigh. All the wounds and fractures healed completely in six months, and she then—at the full time—gave birth to a strong, healthy child. Compound fracture of the thigh. A man, a)t. 47, was ran over by a cart, and brought up to the hospital four hours after the accident. The femur was obliquely fractured and splintered two and a half inches above the lower end ; the fragment protruded through a wound in the skin. The wound communicated also with the knee-joint. Pie bad also a scalp wound tbreo quarters of an inch long over the parietal bone ; the left pupil was dilated to twice the size of the right. Circular amputation was performed through the lower third of the thigh ; the arteries wore found to be atheromatous. On removing the acupressure needles after thirty-eight hours, luemorrhago took place from the femoral artery, and this