PROGNOSIS OP SPINAL CARIES. 180 latter judge by what they see in cases of acute abscess, and have an idea that letting out the matter cures the disease. Eecovery depends materially on the constitution and the position in life of the patient, influences on which medical art can have but little effect. To attack the disease directly usually does more harm than good. Probably more of these cases would recover if the patients were placed under proper dietetic treatment, and could be induced to rest at an earlier period. Prom the nature of the disease, the children of the poor are not brought to the surgeon until curvature is manifest and one or more of the bodies of the vertebrae is already destroyed. Most adult patients, too, go on for many months without heeding the warning of the surgeon, and it only first occurs to them that they are ill when they have pain and difficulty in doing their work; then usually it is too late. It is often said that this is only true of the- uneducated classes, but this is by no means the case; it is so with all people who have to gain their livelihood by work. Prom tables it appears that patients affected with spinal caries not unfrequently die in the first year of the disease, but much more commonly in the second. The third year of the disease is also dangerous ; if the patients survive this period, their chance of life is much better, but still the disease may have a fatal issue even after thirteen years’ duration. In a case which was under my treatment at Zurich, some dormant infiltration of the vertebral column deve- loped very rapidly and acutely, after resection of the head of the humerus for caries, in a girl fourteen years of age. Por eighteen days after the resection, all went on well; then very acute ostitis,1 and periostitis of the cervical vertebrae began simultaneously with suppuration of the right metacarpus and the left metatarsus. Un- fortunately, no post mortem was allowed. In Vienna, I saw caries of the cervical vertebrae develop with great rapidity, in a woman, aet. 74, who died of marasmus, three months after the first symptoms of the disease appeared. Hitherto, I have never seen any cases such as have been described by other authors as general tuberculosis of the vertebral column, combined with general neuralgia, though unfortunately I have only too often had oppor- tunities of observing the latter symptoms in cancerous affections of the vertebral column. Besides the symptoms of phthisis and marasmus, which these patients manifest, amyloid degenerations of the internal organs and caseous deposits can often enough be 1 I.e. Osteomyelitis. Seo ‘Billr. Path.,’ p. 296, and Appendix II, infra.