258 RENAL TUMOUR. HYDRONEPHROSIS. Renal tumour. Barbara F—, a delicate, ansemic woman, set. 40, was sent up to the hospital for a supposed ovarian tumour. The abdomen was enlarged as in the last month of pregnancy. The tumour was hai’d, had been noticed for six years, and proved to be connected with the right kidney. On puncturing it, a little yellowish, flocculent matter was withdrawn, which proved to be broken down tissue. No operation was practicable. Hgfi/roneplirosis. Therese B—, set. 24. When eight years old, she suffered from abdo- minal pain, and for a long time was unable to get about. Swelling of the abdomen, especially of the left side followed. Twelve years before admission the abdomen was as large as when I first saw her. The swelling was then punctured, and twenty-four pints of serous fluid drawn off. Five years later the fluid had re-collected and the same quantity was again let out, it being now of a brownish-red colour. Two years before admission, the tumour was again tapped, a clear yellow fluid escaping. Since this last occasion the abdomen had slowly increased in size, without giving any pain, When I saw her, she was a well-formed, stout, girl; the abdomen was distended unequally, the upper half on the left, and the lower half on the right side, being especially prominent. Fluctuation was everywhere distinct. The tumour was dull on percussion, but not apparently solid anywhere. I tapped the swelling, and drew off thirteen pints of faintly acid, turbid, albuminous fluid, containing a few lymph cells. Taking all tilings into consideration, I have no doubt that this was a case of left hydronephrosis. I hoped that analysis of the fluid would have established the diagnosis, but such was not the case. No uric or hippuric acid could be found; a considerable amount of succinic acid was detected. This last ingredient would have pointed rather to hydatid cyst, had there not been many things against such a view. Foreign body in the bladder. A man, set. 34, who suffered from stricture, while passing for himself au old, much-used bougie, allowed it accidentally to slip into the bladder. A few days later he came under treatment. A catheter was passed, but nothing abnormal could be felt. Six days after tho accident, the patient was unable to pass any water. On attempting to introduce an instrument, an obstacle was met with, about half an inch from the meatus. With a pair of forceps, the bougie, perfectly soft, and with the varnish worn off, was drawn out. By