234 ENCYSTED PERITONEAL EFFUSION. the abdominal wall, and gradually tightened until it cut its way through the portion of the abdominal wall which lay between the two openings. The cavity during the meanwhile was to be washed out daily. Our only dread, besides acute peritonitis, was lest exhaus- tion should supervene from the suppuration of so large a cavity. Of local reaction after the operation there was practically none; on the second day, moderate fever set in, which entirely disappeared by the sixth day, and the patient then was free from fever up till the end of the fourth week. On the sixth day after the operation, I removed the canula, and left in a drainage tube. The opening had to be repeatedly dilated with sponge tents, in order to allow the constant discharge of the secretion. The nature of the fluid was different to what we had expected. It was thin, seldom had any ill smell, did not become really purulent, and ceased to he discharged at the beginning of the fourth week. The tube was then removed and both openings closed up shortly after. While all this was going on, the patient was attacked with rather severe bronchial catarrh. For a while I conceived it to he possible that tuberculosis of the lungs had been developing and that the abdominal affection might he connected with peritoneal disease. However, the bronchial catarrh dis- appeared, and after repeated examination of the thorax, I gave up this idea. The progress of the case after the operation, and the healing of this immense cyst, which had evidently occupied the right side of the abdomen, gave us great satisfaction: hut the feeling was short lived. The abdomen again began to enlarge, and repeated examinations showed clearly that the area of dulness already mentioned was daily increasing in size. Shortly afterwards it assumed the appearance of a rounded swelling ; at the commencement of the fifth week, feverish symptoms again came on rapidly, and the general con- dition deteriorated. This new formed tumour yielded distinct fluctuation; it was painless and fixed; what was it ? At a further consultation we came to the conclusion that a second hydatid cyst, which must have been masked by the previous one, had rapidly developed. The swelling was punctured and ten pints of thin fluid, of the same nature as on the former occasion, were evacuated. It was evidently impossible to evacuate the sac entirely, as the fluid appeared to he enclosed in numerous deeply situated cysts. Slight relief followed, hut the patient from this time forth was never entirely free from febrile symptoms. I now abandoned entirely the idea that the case was one of hydatid tumour; however, I was unable to form any other diagnosis.