368 CHRONIC DISEASE OF SHOULDER AND ELBOW JOINTS. —will be found in the f Bericht5 for 1860-67, P- 426, and a table of thirty cases of chronic inflammation of the elbow, on pp. 430 et seq. Excision was practised in fourteen cases and amputation in one, (op. cit., p. 430). While I was at Zurich none of the patients on whom excision of the elbow-joint was performed for disease died. I operated always according to von. Langenbeck’s method. The ultimate utility of the arm in the great majority of cases left nothing to be desired. True, the parts sometimes did not alto- gether heal up for a year or more, but after complete excision, small, slightly discharging sinuses interfere but little with the ■utility of the limb. The time that these sinuses take to close, depends materially upon the condition of the soft parts at the time of excision; sometimes chronic periostitis of the joint ends ensues, giving rise to fresh sinuses. Such a condition is, however, rare, and will only occur in persons of very weak constitution. The utility of the false joint after excision depends very much upon the condition of the muscular system of the patient, especially the muscles of the diseased arm. I have always practised total excision, and have never seen a useless flail-like limb result. However, the laxity of the joint will be found far greater in from two to three years after the excision than might be expected when the patients are discharged from six to eight months after operation. The latter is just the period when the results of operation seem to be most favourable; it is, therefore, important to avoid removing more of the articular ends than is absolutely necessary, nor should passive movement be commenced too early. In cases where the movements at an early period—say eight or ten weeks—are very free, it will be better to limit them by means of a hinged splint. (W. B.) Between 1860-76, fourteen cases of chronic fungous inflammation of the shoulder-joint, most of which were associated with external caries and suppuration, came under treatment. Eight of these were in women and six in men. The joint was excised in four instances; one only recovered with an exceedingly good and useful arm. Septicaemia proved fatal in one instance, and two of the patients