210 INVOLUTION CYSTS. ADENO-FIBROMA. Involution Cysts of the Mamma. These tumours are exceedingly difficult to diagnose when occurring in large,, fat women. As a rule, the surgeon expects to meet with carcinoma, and is extremely delighted to find that he has only to deal with the smooth-walled cysts. These cysts are certainly at times found in or near undoubted cancer. I saw three such cases, in all of which the cysts were rather larger than a hen’s egg. Two I removed, on the supposition that they were carcinomatous. The third case is recorded below. A woman, sot. 60, whose daughter I had operated on several times for cystic sarcoma of the breast, came under treatment for a slowly-growing cyst of the left breast. When I saw her, the growth was the size of a hen’s egg, and had existed for many years. The old woman was blind and would not con- sent to an operation, so I punctured the cyst; it refilled, and I repeated the puncture, and injected equal parts of iodine and water. No resorption fol- lowed, but the opening of the puncture gave way after a few weeks, and some years later there was still purulent discharge from the sinus. Adeno-fibromata. I include under this heading the firm rounded or oval lobulated and encapsuled tumours, which on section are of a very pale reddish—almost white—colour. They nearly always include glandular tissue, but this has a very unimportant share in the new formation. As a rule the acini are scarcely enlarged, but the branching ducts are greatly elongated, and dilated into irregular slit-shaped spaces,1 containing a little thin mucoid secretion. The slit-like spaces in these tumours are never converted into large cysts. The tissue itself consists of tough—usually fasciculated— granular connective-like tissue.2 Trom the cut surface of these tumours, a little muco-serous fluid may be expressed; the tissue itself is for the most part dry. 1 «Billroth’s Path.,’ 624 et seq. 2 “ The tissue of the neoplasia itself is usually composed of small, round, spindle-shaped—rarely of branched cells — with considerably developed fibrous, sometimes gelatinous, intercellular substance." Op. cit., 625.