162 TENOTOMY OF THE STERNO-MASTOID—EXTIRPATION. repeated the proceeding several times, at intervals of a few days. Eventually the tumour became hot and painful, and fluctuated; then I made an incision, and let out the pus and pulpy matter. Complete recovery followed. In another case, however, the result was very different. A. B—, act. 37, had a fluctuating soft bronchocele the size of an apple, close above the sternum, and extending a little beneath it. Great dyspnoea and tracheal catarrh, with attacks of asphyxia. Subcutaneous dilaceration was performed. Very severe swelling of the tumour followed; the skin of the neck became discoloured and brown; the dyspnoea increased, and she was attacked with septic fever and delirium. I extirpated the tumour, but death followed from septicaemia. This last case has rather deterred me from this method, which at first, seemed to me to promise good results. I have long had an idea of injecting very small quantities of much diluted tincture of iodine, or other substances, into parenchymatous bronchoceles; hitherto, however, I have never tried this plan; chiefly because the results of completely removing bronchoceles have in my hands become better and better. Tenotomy of the demo-mastoid. Frau S—, mt. 26, had a bronchocele of the right side, with tracheal stenosis. The muscle was divided subcutaneously and marked improvement of the breathing followed. Herr V—, ait. 17, had a considerable substernal cyst on the leftside. The whole muscle was cut through completely, and the left sterno-hyoid muscle, as well as the fascia of the neck, partially divided, uutil the capsule of the tumour was exposed, a large skin wound being thus made; no material improvement followed, and death occurred some days after the operation, from septicaemia with duodenal ulceration and intestinal haemorrhage. (‘ Ziir. Ber.,’ 1860—1867.) Extirpation of bronchoceles. In eighteen cases, while I was at Zurich, primary extirpation was undertaken for tumours of greater or less size, which may be arranged as follows :—(a) Bronchoceles causing little or no dyspnoea, and exclusively lying in the middle line of the neck, over the upper border of the sternum, (b) Bronchoceles, mostly unilateral, partly substernal, in which the symptoms of dyspnoea threatened to produce asphyxiation. Of ten such cases, four recovered and six died.