309 SECONDARY FEVER AFTER OVARIOTOMY. uterus and the bladder. In the very worst cases, I often insert additional drainage tubes on both sides, deep into the renal regions. Post-mortem, we often find fluid at this part. I pass also tubes beneath the abdominal wall to any part where adhesions were met with, and where, therefore, much effusion may be expected. My impression is, tha£ one cannot well insert too many drainage tubes, and further, that the non-insertion, at one necessary spot, of a single drainage tube may endanger the life of the patient.1 I prevent the tubes from slipping back into the wound by securing them with safety-pins, which may either be attached to the dressings or left free. In sewing up the abdominal wound I pass the sutures through the peritoneum, inserting also a few superficial sutures, in order to provide for more exact apposition. On the cut surface of the pedicle I apply little bags of gypstheer which I think is better and safer than crystals of ferri perchlor. The application can be renewed the day after the operation, and permanently discontinued after the subsequent dressing. Of late, I have avoided, as much as possible injecting anything through the drainage tubes; nor do I attempt to draw off the fluid and effusions, unless serious symptoms arise and no escape takes place through the tubes. In ordinary cases, the drains may be removed after two or three days, but no harm will arise if they are left longer. High temperatures for the first day or two are not altogether favourable, but yet, in the absence of other severe symptoms, need have no particular influence on the prognosis. It is of course most favourable, when we find the general condition good, the temperature low, the pulse moderate, the abdomen flaccid and free from pain, and when the patient has a sense of hunger. Still, all these favourable circumstances by no means exclude the possibility of severe secondary fever during the second week or later. This secondary fever is a sure sign of suppuration, the situation of which must be carefully searched for, especially when flatulent distension and vomiting supervene. The abscess should then, if possible, be opened, either externally or through the vagina, and a drainage tube immediately introduced. If, however, these symptoms do not make their appearance, we may wait quietly for the spontaneous escape of the pus. The abscess may 1 Prof. Billroth has now (1881) entirely discarded drainage, and tho above remarks have been inserted chiefly from their historical interest. See note at end of chapter.—[Ed.]