CANCER OE THE FEMALE BREAST. 217' the more so that they are but ill fed. About Zurich it is the rarest thing to find stout strong women in the middle and lower labouring class. By the time they are forty-five, they are always grey-haired ;L the menses usually commence late, and cease at an early age; chlo- rosis is very common among the girls working in the country and in. the manufactories. The fact that the patients were usually described as thin, ill-nourished, and anmmic, does not bear any direct relation, to the formation of cancer, but is a characteristic of the whole population. The frequency with which cancer develops appears to me to bear neither a direct nor an indirect relation to the general nourishment of the body. I should not, from what I have observed hitherto, be prepared to make any positive statement on the subject; I have seen old, withered-up women with immense, rapidly-growing carcino- mata; and other stout individuals with shrunken, long-existing scirrhous growths. Just as frequently, too, I have observed these conditions inverted. Anatomically, a parallel may be drawn between the nodulated forms of cancer of the breast, and the tuberous rapidly growing forms of epithelial cancer; so likewise, the superficial, partly cica- trising epithelial cancers correspond to the contracted scirrhus of mammary glands. In cancer of the skin there is a decided differ- ence in respect of the commencement of the two forms, according to the period of life, which is not the case in cancer of the breast. Rodent ulcer is rarely seen in individuals under forty-five years of age; the hard shrunken breast cancer occurs by no means infre- quently before this period. Purely individual idiosyncrasies seem to have some influence here, which has hitherto escaped observation. As for the age, at which cancers of the breast most commonly occur, an analysis of my small number of cases confirms what is already known. It has often occurred to me that cancer of the breast originating in young women grows more rapidly than when it is. developed first at a later period of life. This is, however, not always the rule. It may be gathered from my Zurich tables, that the disease most commonly occurs between the ages of thirty-five and sixty; at an earlier period, therefore, than cancer of the lip or skin, which • In nearly every single case of scirrhus of the breast admitted into St. George s Hospital for a period of some sixteen months the hair had begun to. turn grey about the time the tumour was first noticed. [Ed.]