131 FOREIGN BODIES IN (ESOPHAGUS. Ex tensive cicatricial stricture of the pharynx of syphilitic origin. A man, jet. 40, came to the hospital with respiration and deglutition much impeded. On opening the mouth a singular spectacle presented itself. The cavity behind the base of the tongue was shut off by a smooth diaphragm, in the centre of which was situated an opening of the diameter of a penholder ; through this opening he breathed and took his food. The nares also appeared to be completely closed up at the hack; evidently this remarkable condition had resulted from cicatrisation following ulceration of the inner edges of the velum and the dorsum of the tongue, which had become united together. It appeared that he had suffered for some three years from ulceration about the neck, and had been treated partly with Zittmann’s decoction and partly with inunction and iodine. He left before any treatment could be adopted. I bad intended to dilate the opening by means of tubes, and subsequently to excise a portion of the cicatrix. Foreign body in the oesophagus. A man, set. 56, had noticed for some time a tumour on the left side of his neck, accompanied by scratching sensations in swallowing. He was constantly clearing his throat, and spat up at times a little blo(5d. Externally the growth seemed to be an abscess and was incised. A pointed, sharp, angular piece of bone, which had evidently been broken off, escaped. The abscess soon closed up. The piece of bone had doubtless been swallowed and stuck fast in the oesophagus, which it had then perforated, and so made its way externally. From the shape of the bone it was evidently not a sequestrum from the vertebral column. A child, act. 1, accidentally swallowed a button three days before admission. It appeared that he had a stricture of the oesophagus, caused by eating some lye a year previously, which had been almost completely cured by dilatation. Not an atom of food could pass into the stomach after he swallowed the button, and even water, though slowly swallowed, regurgitated. The button was extracted by cesophagotomy, and the child soon recovered. (The case is reported in the ‘ Arch. f. Klin. Chirurg.,’ Bd. xii, p. 678.) A girl, set. 7, had swallowed some sulphuric acid when she was eighteen months old. Since that timo she had suffered from dysphagia, and the cesophagus had been frequently dilated with bougies. When admitted the child was very emaciated ; she suffered from cough and occasionally spat up pus. She was very sensitive to the introduction of instruments, which some- times passed quite easily, on other occasions met with much difficulty. The bougies passed very readily into the sacculations of the mucous membrane.