$0 TREATMENT OE ANGIOMA BY GAI/VANO-CAUTERY. have the part dressed. In the case of parents who do not look very closely after the lives of their children—which, among poor people, is common enough—we should always take into account a possible want of care, for the consequences of which the surgeon would be held responsible. Kecently I have adapted to Paquelin’s apparatus a sharp-pointed platinum cautery, which answers very well in cases of angioma. By means of this instrument we are able to dispense with the galvano-caustic apparatus, which in private practice is a great advantage. I have repeatedly employed threads soaked in perchloride of iron. As far as one can judge of the effect a few weeks after the application, the results were good. Of course the cicatrices are no better than after galvano-puncture. Suppura- tion usually follows on the use of the threads, thus bringing about n, more decided effect. In the treatment of these angiomata, we often find that in cases which are not completely cured at the time when treatment ceases, the remainder of the growth undergoes spontaneous cure. In other •cases, again, which are supposed to be completely cured, further growth takes place contrary to expectation. I should not presume to give any decided prognosis as to the permanence of a cure in any particular case. Of six cases of plexiform angioma met with at Vienna during 1869—1870, two were cured by excision of the growth, while four were treated partly by repeated puncture with the galvano-cautery, partly by the galvanic wire. In all these cases the growth was con- genital, and began shortly after birth to grow more or less quickly, in two of the cases reaching such an extent that with other methods of treatment but little could have been accomplished. The treat- ment with the galvano-cautery and the galvanic wire has exceeded my most sanguine expectations. A priori I did not promise mysell much from its use, for in order to obtain a cure it seemed to me that the whole of the new vascular formation must be destroyed, and that, therefore, cicatricial contraction would be the same as after ex- tirpation of the growth. The injection of Liquor Terri, in cases of plexiform angioma had not impressed me favourably. I therefore adopted again the plan of destroying these superficial angiomata with fuming sulphuric acid, while moderate-sized tumours of this kind I removed with the knife. In one of my cases, however,I doubt whether any surgeon would have ventured to excise the growth; the skin of half the nose, the glabella, the whole of the lower eye-