108 CYSTIC BRONCHOCELE—MALIGNANT BRONCIIOCELE. again increased in size and during the next evening a quantity of fluid escaped from the scarcely closed opening and air got in. The next morning I was obliged, on account of the great tension of the cyst, to lay it open, and the afternoon of the same day he rapidly sank and died. No post mortem was permitted. Cystic ironchocele. M. W—, set. 18, had a tumour, the size of a large apple, in the middle line of the neck, which had existed for eight years. This was punctured and some chocolate-coloured fluid evacuated. Five weeks later the growth had made so little progress towards resorption, that I punctured again. On this occasion only some thick granular pulp was let out. The cyst walls then swelled up considerably and the patient became feverish, so that I determined to make a small incision. The cavity of the cyst was found completely contracted, and the swelling was only caused by the thickening of the wall. Carcinoma of the thyroid. P. S—, set. 28, a slightly built, ill-nourished, anaemic woman had observed, two years previously, swelling of the left half of the thyroid, which had increased very slowly and without pain. When I saw her the tumour was the size of a hen’s egg, very hard, and immovably connected to the trachea; it caused intense dyspnoea, quite disproportionate to the size of the tumour. I supposed that the growth was an ordinary “struma” partly calcified, and suspected that a process extended down beneath the sternum, and there pressed on the trachea. I extirpated the tumour, and found the operation one of the most difficult which I have ever performed. There was great difficulty in separating the tumour from the trachea and the deeper parts; the haemorrhage was very severe, and attacks of suffocation occurred and she seemed several times during the operation on the point of death from asphyxia. The left inferior thyroid artery had to be ligatured. The patient recovered from this very formidable operation and her breathing became again gradually free. Almost immediately after the operation, however, the following remarkable condition was manifested ; the patient almost always choked on swallowing the least fluid, and she could only avoid this by swallowing, with the greatest caution, minute quantities at a time. This troublesome condition existed for several weeks; the voice, which before the operation was rather hoarse, became after the operation still more hoarse and bass. Remembering previous similar cases, I concluded from these symptoms that the left recurrent nerve had been included in the ligature placed around the thyroid artery and in truth, Dr. Sekrotter, on examination, discovered complete paralysis of the left vocal cord. The tumour proved to be very different from an ordinary bronehocole. Numerous amorphous calcareous deposits were indeed seen, but microscopically cylindrical and spherical cells were found in the soft mass of the tumour such as exist only in typical alveolar cancer. Four months later the patient came back ; on the whole she had somewhat improved and the tendency to choke only