105 EPITHELIOMA OF CHEEK AND LOWER .TAW. flap. In the last-mentioned case I made this mistake. I tried then to obviate it by freeing as much as possible the pedicle of the flap towards the orbit, and the new nose was certainly united successfully in this way. Its direction was, however, at first somewhat crooked, and had to be corrected subsequently. Nor was this the only mishap. In order to make the pedicle of the flap as thick as possible I had removed the periosteum from the glabella as far as the internal palpebral ligament. Two days later a prodigious exophthalmus came on, evidently from oedema of the tissues around the bulb. For a week the condition was very critical, and I feared lest suppuration should occur in the orbit. Fortunately, then the swelling disappeared spontaneously, and no damage to the eye resulted. M. S—, set. 52, was admitted with an ulceration of the left cheek, which had extended far into the month and gradually attacked the lower jaw. The disease had existed one year. When I first saw the patient I doubted whether it was a case of necrosis of the jaw, or a carcinoma with foul discharge. The mouth could only be opened to a veiy small extent. On a more minute examination I found the lower jaw in the neighbourhood of the first molar tooth completely destroyed (spontaneous fracture); the entire posterior half was bare and necrosed. I removed the portion of hone some- what forcibly, and was able to twist it away at the joint without using any cutting instrument. I thought now for certain that the case was one of simple necrosis of the jaw, hut in order to make sure I examined some shreds of granulations which were attached to the extracted hone; on these were found undoubted elements of epithelial cancer. The patient died a few days later of septicemia. I have examined many cases of carcinoma of the jaw, but I never previously saw the disease lead to complete necrosis of the bone. Such a result can evidently only be caused by a complete breaking down of the new formation. hi- D—, set. 33. Syphilis or cancer? The nose was swollen and’stopped up, the hard palate completely ulcerated and softened, the soft palate gone, and superficial ulceration was evident in the pharynx. Some of the sub- maxillary glands were hard and enlarged. The disease, which had existed for three years, and commenced with dysphagia, infiltration, and pain in the soft palate, had been considered by everybody who saw it to be of a syphilitic nature.- Antisyphilitic remedies of various kinds had been employed, hut without any success. I myself was forced to conclude that I had before me a rare form of syphilis. The patient was so strong, and the course of the disease so gradual that the other alternative, viz. epithelial cancel", could not be entertained. Professor Hebra, whom I consulted about the case, held that it was an epithelial cancer; in order to make sure, I removed a small portion and examined it microscopically. It proved to be a cancer. We