ANGIOMA TREATED BY ACUPUNCTURE. 37 gradually increased to the size and appearance shown in PI. I, fig. 2. The tumour, which was very compressible, was composed of strongly pulsating arteries and highly dilated veins. The patient would not allow any operative treatment. Racemose arterio-venous angioma. J. S—, ret. 17. At birth a violet coloured mole, the size of a pea was observed near the glabella; when he was twelve years old it began gradually to increase. On admission, an angioma was seen, formed of small arteries and veins, which extended over the central portion of the forehead, from the edge of the hairy scalp down as far as the middle of the nose. On the left side, it had spread on to the cheek below the eyelid. Remembering the successful effect of acupuncture which I had previously employed in a similar case (Wien. Med. Woch. 1871, No. 42), I adopted the following method:— I first performed acupuncture with fifteen long, fine, gilt needles, which I inserted right through the base of the vascular growth. No reaction followed. A fortnight later, ten more needles were carried in a longitudinal direction beneath the base of the tumour. Twelve days after the last operation the needles, most of which were loose, were removed; very little suppuration took place from the punctures. Several very tortuous branches of the temporal artery were then secured subcutaneously by acupressure as near as possible to the growth. Two days later distinct pulsation could still be felt in an artery which rau upwards in the left cheek. Nine days later the needles were removed. The tumour had collapsed considerably, but still pulsated strongly at the lower part. Seven more acupuncture needles were then iuserted, which were removed three weeks later, as they were quite loose. The diminution in size and pulsation of the angioma did not last; in some places it remained stationary, whilst at othci parts the pulsation increased. Eirm pressure was then tried with sheets of gutta percha, which were laid on soft, and then hardened. No success followed this proceeding. I next excised a central portion over the forehead in such a way that the edges of skin could be united together. Healing did not follow by first intention, and when he was discharged the wound was still suppurating. Meanwhile, I had thoroughly applied the galvano-cautery to the portion of the angioma where pulsation still continued. The slight bleeding which occurred from the punctures and the wounds from time to time was always easily con- trolled. The patient was now discharged temporarily, that we might see the effect of the cicatricial contraction. The skin, corresponding to the extensive region that had been operated on, though no longer raised, was very red in colour; distinct pulsation was still perceptible at the borders. A year later the patient returned to the hospital; the cicatrix was but slightly raised, and was in some parts of a light blue colour, at others of an arterial red. At many points pulsation was perceptible. I employed galvauo-caustic puncture ex- tensively on two occasions, and the patient was discharged with the wound still granulating. A year later lie again returned; the pulsation was then still distinct at many points, but in all other respects he was in good health. The case is still under treatment (1876).