328 ENOHONDROMA OP PELVIS. interest. With regard to the transfusion, it may be stated that the possibility of some previously existing infection could not be entirely excluded, although death undoubtedly was not due to the infection. Theresa R—, a cook, £et. 29, was admitted for an enormous osteo-chondroma, which had originated in the left side of the pelvis and had been first noticed two years previously. When admitted we found a hard tumour, rather larger than a man’s head, springing from the horizontal ramus on the left side. A similar hard growth so completely filled up the pelvis, that defsecation and micturition for a long time past had been materially interfered with. The patient had been confined to bed for many months for the left leg was forced into a position of permanent abduction, although the move- ments of the hip-joint were free. She suffered severe neuralgic pain in the left leg, especially along the course of the obturator nerve. My first impression on examining the case was that nothing could be done for it. I would have sent the patient back to her own home that she might die quietly among her relations, but as from her condition she required constant catheterisation, subcuta- neous injections, and so forth, which could only be properly admi- nistered in a hospital, I was precluded from so doing. Thus it came about that we saw her constantly growing worse, and we could not avoid the reflection that here was a person dying of a tumour, in itself of an innocent nature, which was attached to one portion of bone only, and whose removal was neither necessarily fatal, nor in all probability absolutely destructive to the functions of the parts. Beflections such as these we neither can nor ought to put on one side, for it is from the like that operations most rich in blessings have been devised, as also it must be admitted the most bitter feelings of resignation with regard to the limitation of our art. From the experience derived from a former case,1 I felt that the possibility of successfully removing the mass, with or without a portion of the pelvis, depended on whether the tumour had the same connections to the inner as it had to the outer surface of the pelvis. In the case cited below this was the condition, and the operation succeeded beyond all expectation, although the patient died on the seventh day of septic infection. But in this woman the condition of things was worse, the tumour was more extensive and the general condition less favourable. It 1 Case of A. S—, described below, p. 331.