EFFECTS OF IODINE INJECTIONS ON BEONOHOOELES. 17S' young girls coming of tubercular families; in children under the age of six years, I should hardly care to employ the method at all? and at a later age after each injection great care and close watching are necessary. I have seen bronchoceles the size of a fist so decrease in the course of four weeks after the iodine injection, that they were scarcely the size of a hen's egg. True, at the same time there was considerable emaciation. Whether these bronchoceles soon recurred again, or remained permanently contracted, I cannot say. In a few cases I saw remarkably good results in bronchoceles situated in the middle line, partly substernal, and causing dyspnoea. A child, tet. io, wlio had a bronchocele of this sort, causing great dyspnoea, was sent to the hospital to have tracheotomy performed; he was kept under constant observation, and we were ready to do tracheotomy at any moment. I thought that I would try the effect of iodine injections, although I had some fear that they might at first increase the dyspnoea; however, this was not the case, for after forty-eight hours the child breathed much more freely. The injections were repeated at short intervals, and in fourteen days the respirations were perfectly free. Certainly, he became rather emaciated, but soon recovered from this with the assistance of good food and fresh air. Undoubtedly the effect of the iodine treatment here was very striking, and this success is by no means diminished in my eyes by the fact that six months later the dyspnoea gradually came back again; repetition of the former treatment again brought about equally good results. The parents were sensible enough to bring the child up twice weekly for a long time, in order that we might inject the bronchocele. The treatment was pursued till the bron- chocele became so small that we could hardly inject it with any safety. Dr. Gersuny, my assistant, met with equally good success in the case of a woman with a large bronchocele, which surrounded the entire trachea, and produced severe dyspnoea, and occasionally almost suffocated the patient. No one who has examined the anatomical structure of many bronchoceles can be astonished that the injections of iodine act upon bronchoceles with such varying effects. It is only in the diffused, hypertrophic glands, in which the development of the vessels keeps pace with the new formation of gland tissue, that the structure of the bronchocele is unaltered. Sooner or later, changes.