TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF LARYNX. EXTIRPATION. 133 infiltration existed about the upper opening of the larynx and above the false vocal cords. Opinions differed as to the nature of the growth, which was, however, proved to be of a tuberculous nature by the removal and microscopic examination of a small piece. I performed tracheotomy and left the canula in the trachea; then I laid open the pharynx completely from just above the edge of the thyroid cartilage, and removed the greater part of the infiltrated mass. The patient died, ten days after, of double pneumonia. Post mortem : some firm, partially calcified nodules were found to have been left in the larynx. Tuberculous disease of larynx. J. S.—, set. 56, an ill-nourished man of slender frame, had suffered from hoarseness and a feeling of suffocation for four months. A laryngoscopic examination showed some red papillary growths on the vocal cords, extending down to the larynx. There seemed every probability that it was a case of carcinoma of the larynx. However, a portion of the growth, removed by Dr. Schrotter, seemed under the microscope to be a granulation papilloma, covered by a thick layer of epithelium. On account of increasing danger of suffocation, I split open the larynx and cleared out the whole of the diseased part. The reaction that followed was trifling. The dyspnoea ceased, and remarkable improvement followed for a time. Soon, however, wasting and diarrhoea set in, and the patient died. Post mortem: caseous infiltration of the apices of both lungs was discovered, with tubercular disease of the intestinal mucous membrane. Further examination of the growth removed had already proved the incorrectness of our diagnosis, and showed that the disease of the larynx was of a tubercular nature. One case of laryngeal stenosis resulting from tuberculous ulceration was brought to me in a girl twenty-eight years of age ; the dyspnoea, which was very great, was so relieved hy the inhalation of lime water sprayed upon the paid that no operation was found necessary. Complete extirpation of the larynx, with removal of a small bronchocele. A. E—, set. 54, had suffered for about twelve months from constantly increasing hoarseness and cough, and for four months from dyspnoea. When admitted he was in an emaciated condition, somewhat cyanosed, and breathing with difficulty. Considerable catarrrhal inflammation of both lungs, with dulness over the apices, and a considerable amount of muco-purulent sputa. Over the centre of a rather long and slender neck was a movable bronchocele, the size of a hen’s egg. The larynx felt very hard, and the anterior anglo of the thyroid cartilage was filled up and rounded. From Prof. Schrotter’s laryngoscopic report I extract the following (Edematous swelling over both arytenoids; the cavity of the larynx between the false vocal cords is completely filled with a faintly red uneven growth of triangular shape, covering up both true vocal cords and the glottis. If the mirror be much depressed a narrow slit can, on deop