358 COMPOUND FEACTUEE INTO THE ELBOW-JOINT. H. B—, sot. 48, fell from a ladder and fractured both condyles of the humerus. There was extensive extravasation of blood and a very small wound close to the olecranon. ITis limb was put in a plaster-of-Paris splint in which a window was cut, and ice applied. Suppuration of the joint followed, and he died of septicaemia, nine days after the injury. Herr E—, aet. 60, a very fat, big man, not exactly a drunkard, but still, a regular frequenter of the beerhouse, fell from a step-ladder, pitching backwards with the whole weight of his body on to the flexed elbow-joint. The condyles and the olecranon were comminuted. Excision of the joint was performed the day after the injury. Death from septicaemia seven days later. B. G—, aet. 25, received a wound of the elbow-joint from a circular saw, which penetrated into the internal condyle. The joint was excised a few hours after the accident. Death took place from pyaemia twenty-six days later. E. B—, aet. 28, received a wound of the right elbow-joint and an injury to the olecranon from a chaff-cutting machine. Primary resection of the joint was performed. The patient was discharged in four months with the wound healed ; passive movement was almost normal, but the active move- ment was only slight. I could not find out the ultimate result of the case as regards movement. The results of conservative and operative treatment for wound of the elbow-joint appeared to me almost equally unfavourable. Including three cases of simple penetrating wound of the joint, one of which was treated by excision the fourteenth day after the injury and recovered, two by expectant means (one recovered and one died of pyaemia), and two cases of compound dislocation, both of whom died of pymmia (one after amputation), we have altogether eleven cases, of whom three only recovered after resection. Still, we must take into consideration that the fatal cases included a number of old people in whom the prognosis is always bad.