SUPPUEATION IN CASEODS LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 143 say that the regulation remedies are absolutely worthless, but no one of them can be counted on with any degree of certainty. Nothing whatever can be expected from internal remedies. As consulting surgeons, we, as a rule, have no knowledge as to whether the dietetic rules recommended by us to be observed for periods of months or years are carried out. Who would venture to guarantee with any certainty that he could prevent the occurrence of suppuration in a swollen gland ? Speaking generally, it is true that diseases of the lymphatic glands mostly occur deuteropathically and reflect the primary disease. .From acute suppurative or diphtheritic inflammations of the skin and cellular tissue result acute suppurative or diphtheritic perilymphan- gitis, perilymphadenitis, and lymphadenitis. Chronic hyperplastic inflammations of the nature of elephantiasis are the precursors of similar changes in the lymphatic glands. Chronic suppurating, ulcerative, and caseating changes in the superficial membranes cause suppurative and caseating lymphadenitis. If, for example, the pri- marily affected areas in the lungs go on to degeneration and calcifi- cation, the same process occurs in a deuteropathically infiltrated lymphatic gland; inasmuch, however, as the primary diseases occur- ring on the head and face which lead to swelling of the lymphatic glands are of a transient nature, they do not usually come under our observation, and we have then to deal with the enlargements of the lymphatic glands as producers, in themselves, of further disease. Their prodncts are the means of infecting other glands, and so the process goes on. There is a peculiarity in the suppuration which so frequently occurs in the glands; the change is seldom brought about by the softening and suppuration of the first hyperplastic formations : more commonly these products first caseate, pus forms around these caseous areas, and then enters into them, so that these same caseous deposits appear to go on to suppuration. Probably a chronic condition of irritation around the capsule of the gland is excited and kept up by the caseating matter, which is with difficulty got rid of; this condition, which at the outset leads to plastic changes and defective growth, eventually brings about ulcerative softening in the vicinity of the glands. I have never seen calcification of the cervical lymphatic glands. They either remain in a dry, so-called tubercular condition, or else suppurate and slough, sometimes after months or years of quiescence. I cannot say whether from these caseous glands general tubercu-