1 “ Continuirlicli.” INFECTION OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS IN EPITHELIOMA OF LIP . under their care; it is certainly a reproach; but not always the operator’s fault. I have occupied myself a great deal in the inves- tigation of tumours, and fancy that I am able to recognise all the different forms on section when fresh. I must, however, admit that, under some circumstances it may be exceedingly difficult to know exactly whether all the disease has been removed, especially in operations that are conducted in deeply lying parts, as the neck, uterus, or rectum. Not infrequently the conviction is forced upon you too late that it is impossible to remove all the disease without running a fatal risk. When patients comeback early to the surgeon with “ continuous1 recurrence” in the lip, a thorough new opera- tion should be performed. This can be done with good prospect of success, as in the case of a young man who had some cancerous nodules in his lower lip, which had been growing for a year and a half; these were removed. The disease soon recurred and grew rapidly. The prognosis seemed very bad. The growth was freely removed, and five years later he was quite well. We must acknow- ledge how powerless we are against cancerous infections of the lymphatic glands. At the time of operation the affection may be so slight as to escape detection by touch. When removed the number of glands, especially in the neck, is often so great and the region is so difficult for the operator, that some, which though very small are already affected, may very easily be overlooked. My advice is to operate on cancer of the lip as on other carcinomatous growths as soon as ever the diagnosis is established, and before the lymphatic glands become affected. If surgeons would act on this principle the cure of these cases by operation would not only be more, frequent, but, I trust, might even become the rule. Sarcoma. A man, ait. 63, liad five years previously observed the development of a nodule in his right cheek. In the course of two years it had attained the size of a hen’s egg, and broke into the. cavity of the mouth, discharging pus and some small lumps of fleshy appearance; the opening closed. A year later a new formed tumour, which had reached the size of a fist, broke again into the cavity of the mouth; the wound again closed up and healed and the swelling markedly diminished. Since that time the tumour had again grown to the size of a man s fist, and when the patient came under treatment was scarcely