71 PHOSPHORUS PERIOSTITIS. which can give these most unfortunate of all sufferers a prospect of recovering, if only to some slight extent, some general feeling of health for the time which they have still to live ? Let us as sur- geons imagine ourselves confronted by a patient for whom this treatment is absolutely the only resource. Can we avert our eyes from the sufferer’s glance when he begs, if only for “ some relief, some easement, some hope?” There can be no doubt as to the answer we should return to such an entreaty. There can be no doubt as to our course of action. Section C.—Phosphorus Periostitis and Necrosis. In the year i860 there were no less than twenty lucifer-match factories in Zurich, and we had therefore abundant opportunity for studying the disease of the jaws arising from phosphorus. During i860 and 1861 the frequency of the disease struck me very much. Out of twenty-three cases which came under my notice sixteen oc- curred during these two years. Between 1861-66 I only met with seven, and three of these patients did not come from the Canton Zurich. This diminution of the disease was so striking that there could be no doubt that it depended upon the improved sanitary regulations enforced by the police. Improvements were effected in the internal arrangements of the manufactories, and the district medical officer was ordered to inspect all the operatives at least once a month. ITis duty was to enforce their absence from the manu- factory on the first occurrence of pain about the jaws, or if they showed any symptoms of illness. As to the exact nature of the process by which the fumes of phosphorus affect the periosteum of the jaws, no positive opinion can be given. The supposition that the phosphorus in some form or other is taken up into the blood, and then exerts a specific irritating influence on the jaws, has hitherto neither been proved nor refuted; the same is true of the hypothesis that the phosphoric fumes exert a directly injurious influence on the gums, particularly when the teeth are carious or the alveoli diseased. It is evident that phosphorus periostitis may occur when the teeth are not diseased, for in some of my patients all the teeth were perfectly sound; this I have myself observed, though only in a few instances. A single case, however, would be