151 OPERATIVE TREATMENT. not always inquire carefully enough whether exanthemata, especially measles and scarlet fever, immediately preceded the commencement of the glandular swellings; both are accompanied very often with such intense catarrh in the neighbourhood of the face and head that a very evident source of lymphatic swelling is thereby occasioned. Further, caries of the teeth with the alveolar periostitis which so frequently accompanies it, is certainly in many cases the original cause of the lymphatic swellings. I have tried repeatedly to learn what happened to these patients later on, and whether they were affected with new diseases of the lymphatic system, such as leukaemia, anaemia, diseases of the spleen, etc., or whether they died of tuber- culosis of the lungs. It would be very important to gain knowledge on such points, but it was so difficult, often impossible, to get any reliable information, that I soon got wearied at the unproductive results of my inquiries about the subsequent diseases of these patients. In the treatment of these diseases I have scarcely seen any good result from iodine, cod-liver oil or iron; external application of iodine, too, seems to have absolutely no effect, in whatever form it be applied. However, I prescribe it frequently, for I know nothing better to prescribe. Compression, as advocated by my esteemed teacher Baum, sometimes brought about slight diminution of the glandular tumours, at other times led to softening and suppuration. On the whole, I have come round to the opinion that the simplest plan of treatment is either to destroy or to extirpate the glands. This method of treatment would seem to be still more worthy of recommendation if the modern views as to the origin of tuberculosis should prove true—viz. that every caseous area, especially if it exist in the lymphatic gland, may prove to be a source of danger. Extirpation of the cervical lymphatic glands may be very easy, or it may be very difficult. It is always practicable when the capsules of the glands are not too much adherent together or united to the sur- rounding parts, and when the glands are not too much softened. If in the latter condition, they cannot be completely removed, and sinuses are left, which take a long time to heal. In removing lymphatic glands the knife should only be employed till the capsule of the gland is ex- posed, and then the tumour should be turned out with the finger or with blunt instruments. The large vessels passing in at the hilus should be ligatured before they are cut through. These operations may extend down to the sheaths of the deep vessels and nerves of the