METHOD OF UNITING DUODENUM TO STOMACH. 499 (4.) The insertion of the duodenum into the stomach.—As with the intestine, so here also, we must begin at the posterior wTalls of the stomach and duodenum. A very good plan of uniting them is to insert the posterior sutures before the duodenum is completely separated. In our first case the entire stomach was cut through, and then the upper half of the duodenum. Several threads were then carried through the walls of the stomach and duodenum to form the posterior “ring suture," and were then given to an assistant to hold while the occlusion sutures were being inserted; it was found, however, that the sutures cut their way a little through the thin wall of the duodenum, and that the punctures made by the needle enlarged. In the second case the gut was partly divided, enough being left to hold up the duodenum while the sutures were applied at the back. The disadvantage of this method is that the posterior wall of the duodenum has to be twisted if the operator wishes to make sure of applying these very important sutures with precision. It is far more convenient to apply the posterior “ring sutures" from within, as shown in Plate III, figs. 10 and 11, which were drawn from a preparation made from the dead subject. The needle should be inserted between the mucous and muscular coats, carried through between the muscular and the serous, then through the same layers of the duodenum, and finally brought out between these layers and the mucous membrane at the cut edges. These “ inner intestinal sutures " resemble Czerny’s modification of Lembert’s suture. At my own suggestion first, they were inserted from within outwards, in order to bring a considerable breath of the serous coats into apposition; the needle should pierce these layers about a centimetre from the cut edges. The edges of the mucous membrane fall naturally into apposition, for, owing to the strong retraction of the muscular coat, the mucous lining always projects a little. If at any point this is not the case, a very fine suture can be carried through the mucous membrane, and the threads cut off quite short I l>late III, fig. 11). The knots of the inner intestinal sutures will thus obviously fall inwards. In this way the posterior w'alls of the stomach and duodenum are united; the sutures are now inserted on the anterior surfaces in the ordinary way. It is well to put in a few additional superficial sutures at the point marked “ m ’ in fig. 5. As we know that the ordinary Lembert’s knot, such as has been described, brings the inner surfaces into good apposition, it might seem superfluous to put in additional