CYSTIC PAPILLOMA. CATGUT LiGATUEES. 305 the vesical fistula healed up spontaneously in the course of a few weeks. In another case vesical catarrh and pain persisted for a long time. I have frequently found it necessary to ligature short adhesions close to the intestine. I have twice seen faecal fistula form a week after operation, but in both instances the opening healed spon- taneously in a few weeks. On three occasions I met with cystic papilloma; in all there was much ascites; the greater part of the growth had to be scooped out with the hands. What astonished me was, that two of the patients recovered and only one died of peritonitis. One of the successful cases I heard of six months after the operation, and she was then well. The other was a woman some fifty years of age, who was reduced to a skeleton and could scarcely breathe by reason of her ascites. Both ovaries were found degenerated into cystic papil- loma.1 I did not feel certain at the time that all the diseased tissue was removed; however the patient recovered, and when I saw her two years later she had become stout and was in capital health. There was no trace of recurrence. Before passing on to the treatment of the pedicle, I must say a word about the material employed for ligature. Tor some years I used hemp, and when the adhesions were very thick I doubled or trebled the threads, or substituted strong silk. I found it very diffi- cult to acquire familiarity with the use of the catgut ligature. I had been always accustomed when using hemp or silk to tie the knots with the full strength of my hands, and thus, when I came to use catgut I always broke it. Even when by practice I could apply the ligatures properly, I found that the threads often' became detached by the sponging or by slight manipulation. I became suspicious, too, of the material; the carbolic oil in which it was always kept till use was, as a rule, so rancid, that I could not believe that it had any particularly antiseptic properties. I there- fore put this material on one side and adopted silk again, taking care always to soak the threads for half an hour in 5 per cent, carbolic acid solution. lor a time I employed Paquelin’s cautery in the case of small adhesions, but found no particular advantage from its use. 1 The “ cauliflower ” growth of Dr. Wilson Fox. See ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xhihp. 246. A resume of Dr. Fox’s views will be found in Spencer Wells s Diseases of the Ovaries/ pp. 45 ct scq.— [Ed.] 20