355 DISLOCATION OF ULNA: OF THUMB. and. forearm. Within four- weeks of the injury sensation was restored, but mobility did not return; the patient was then transferred to the electro- therapeutic department. Reduction was so easy in this case that most probably the nerves were either braised or partly lacerated at the time of the injury. Dislocation of the ulna bachoards at the elbow-joint. This injury was observed in the case of a man, set. 28, who came up to the hospital a fortnight after the injury. Eeduction was easily accomplished, but the bone would not stay in position ; probably the coronoid process was also broken off at the same time. He recovered with complete mobility of the joint. Dislocation of the thumb. An intemperate man dislocated the first phalanx of his thumb on to the dorsal surface of the metacarpal bone. He came up to the hospital four weeks after the injury. All attempts to reduce the dislocation were unsuccessful until I made an incision through the capsule of the joint. A plaster of Paris bandage was applied. Slight gangrene of the skin took place under the bandage. In due course the slough separated, but the patient was attacked with erysipelas, starting from a slight graze on the nose, which extended over the whole body, and carried him off after three weeks. The fatal result in this case could not, therefore, be' directly attributed to the injury of the thumb. In another case the patient, a man, came to me two weeks after the injury with a dislocation of the second phalanx on to the dorsum of the first. I was unable to effect reduction until I had resected the head of the first phalanx. Suppuration of the shoulder-joint. Excision. In a child, art. 13, who had suppuration of the shoulder-joint, resulting from a penetrating wound, I excised the head of the humerus, sawing through the anatomical neck of the bone. Recovery followed in two and a half months, but when the child left the hospital I found that the great tuberosity of the humerus, which had been left behind, was drawn up under the acromion, so that I fear the power of raising the arm may have been materially impaired. If this were the case it would be proper always to resect at the surgical neck. Still, the cicatrices after the resection of joints are