PSEUDARTHEOSIS. 396 I have already recorded a case of pseudarthrosis, treated by electro-puncture, followed by pyaemia and death. I recollect a case also, under my care at Zurich, which illustrates well the evil results that may arise from still milder treatment. A simple fracture of the bones of the leg was found ununited after the ordinary period of rest in bandages. 1 then placed the leg upon a splint, and ordered strong tincture of iodine to be painted daily over the frac- ture. Considerable dermatitis resulted, and blebs formed, as I expected, but there followed also results which I had by no means looked for; the dermatitis ran on to phlegmonous inflammation, suppuration, and gangrene of the skin, and the patient died of pyaemia. The case is of considerable importance, for it shows that -even six or eight weeks after fracture, we must be careful in the application of iodine, and furthermore, that the English preparation (Tinctura Iodi Eortior) has a far more potent effect than we are accus- tomed to observe when our officinal tincture is employed. In treating ununited fracture by the insertion of ivory pegs, I 'find that it is of the greatest importance to use pegs of at least two lines diameter; from four to eight should be driven in deeply and firmly ; no suppuration ought to follow, if the osteo-plastic pro- cess is to succeed. As soon as the pegs become loose they should be removed and replaced by larger ones. Pseudarthrosis. Alois W—, ret. 24. When four years of age he fractured the lower third of his right leg, for which he was treated at a children’s hospital. When discharged, an apparatus was supplied by the aid of which he was enabled to walk. This, however, was not renewed, and the fragments gradually assumed an exceedingly faulty position. The lower third of the tibia was Hexed backwards at a right angle with the rest of the shaft (see Fig 20). Attempts were made to straighten the limb, but the tendo-Achillis offered an insuperable obstacle ;-the growth of the whole limb had been arrested, and the muscles were ill developed, although the child generally was fairly ■strong. The tendo-Achillis was divided, and I was able, though not with- out exerting considerable force, to straighten the leg. It was then found that there was shortening to the extent of three inches; the fragments lay one above the other. In order to improve the position a weight and pulley were applied, and subsequently the two fragments were united together by means of a thick platinum wire ; the ends of the bone were atrophied and -denuded of periosteum. The wires were allowed to remain from the 28th June to the 20th October but no union took place, nor did any follow the