SPONTANEOUS GANGRENE. 407 the anterior surface, and removed sufficient bone to enable the soft tissues to cover the stump. Unfortunately fresh gangrene followed this operation, collapse set in, and the patient died. Post mortem : the heart was found to he half as large again as natural, the wall of the right ventricle being mucli thickened; the valves very extensively diseased; the bicuspid valve, to- gether with its chordae tendinese, thickened and contracted. On the inner surface of the valves spots of calcification, and in one place an ulcer, the size of a bean, to which loose, fibrinous, vegetation-like coagula adhered. The posterior aortic flap adherent to the left. Both cusps of the mitral valve so adherent that the opening would only admit the little finger. Meyer W—, set. 37. Pour years previously the patient experienced con- stant formication, accompanied by some pain and swelling of the left foot. He went on with his work, but four months later a small wound formed and gradually increased, starting from a scratch on the little toe. A year later a similar ulcer formed on the great toe ; caustics were applied, and after the separation of the eschar the ulcer resumed its former appearance. The ulceration now spread slowly over the whole foot, destroying first the little and then the great toe. Under long continued rest the ulceration almost healed up; he then began to get about, whereupon the cicatrices again began to break down, and again healed up with rest; so the process went on until the other toes separated, and the soft parts became detached from the metatarsal bones, which, on his admission, were bare and partly covered by osteophytes. The parts about the ulcerated wound were strikingly white and insensitive ; the whole appearance of the disease suggested some slow phagedsenic process; the thoracic and abdominal viscera were normal, nor could anything be found amiss with the heart or the large vessels. Von Hebra was of opinion that the disease was syphilitic in its nature, although the patient absolutely denied any infection, and no other symptoms of syphilis could be discovered beyond slight swelling of the cervical and cubital glands. Some thought the infection was due to congenital syphilis. Cho- part’s amputation was performed and inunction employed. The patient improved decidedly, and the wound got well. In six weeks’ time he was able to walk well on the stump, and was then discharged. To my regret I could gain no subsequent information about his case. Anton H—, ajt. 33, was stated to have suffered six weeks before his admission from pneumonia of the left lung and pleurisy of the right side. Fourteen days after the commencement of the disease he felt a sudden pain in the great too of the left foot, and formication in the sole of the foot. Soon after, the entire left lower and the right upper extremity became cold and devoid of sensation. After two days the great toe was noticed to be of a blue colour, and the discolouration gradually spread over the foot and leg. The anaesthesia of the upper extremity disappeared after some days. When admitted tho patient was in a very feeble state; the area of prsecordial dulness was not increased; a distinct systolic friction murmur was audible. No pulse could bo felt in tho brachial arteries of the right side nor in the left crural artery ; tho left leg was gangrenous up to