NEURALGIA OP FIFTH NERYE REPEATED OPERATIONS. G1 removed. The patient bore this terribly severe procedure with firmness, but he was rewarded, for after this operation the attacks ceased, lie was restored, as it were, to a new life, left on the 27th of May, and resumed his work as a ranger. For three quarters of a year (up to February, 1865) he continued perfectly well; then, though at long intervals, slight symptoms began, recalling the former attacks. As before they were attributed to external causes. His condi- tion was tolerable, and he was able to pursue his avocations. In the autumn of 1865 the attacks of pain began to increase in frequency and severity (about one and a half years after the last operation) and in February, 1866, his condition became so unendurable that he was unable to continue his work any longer. In the meantime he had tried every sort of remedy but had lost confidence in everything except a fresh operation, and with this object he came back to the hospital. During the paroxysms the cheek was now free from pain, but all the other parts supplied by the second division of the fifth nerve were affected- Hest could only be procured by very strong morphia injections. In February, 1866, I performed v. Langenbeck’s osteoplastic resection of the superior maxilla, and broke away the posterior wall of the antrum and the back part of the floor of the orbit. Next, the second division of the fifth was traced up, and the orbital dental branches sought for; the trunk of the nerve was cut close to the foramen rotundum. I then drew the nerve forward, separated the branches for some distance and completely removed the infraorbital nerve. The operation entailed but little haemorrhage. The portion of bone was replaced and united well, as did also the wound. Beaction was moderate. After this the attacks of pain ceased. On examination, the entire trunk with its principal branches was found to have been removed, but unfortunately the spheno-palatine ganglion was left. In similar cases I should consider the removal of this ganglion of importance. Microscopically no pathological appearances could be detected. Towards the end of March, 1866, the neuralgic symptoms unfortunately returned again, on any touching or stretching of the left angle of the mouth ; soon the attacks became more frequent. I then determined to resect the buc- cinator nerve, which, though a branch of the third division, is partly a nerve of sensation, and supplies the angle of the mouth and the mucous membrane. Although the trunk of this nerve was readily found in the dead subject, yet, in the cicatricial tissues of the patient’s cheek, it cost me a long search to discover and excise a portion of the nerve. I was unfortunate enough, in searching for the nerve, to divide Stenon’s duct close to its exit from the gland. This was in April, 1866; the neuralgic pains completely disappeared, but the patient had an attack of erysipelas ambulans ; this latter lie got over well, but was left with a salivary fistula. Tn May, 1866, a month later, the neuralgic pains again appeared about the upper jaw and in the neighbourhood of the chin. I then made an incision from the mouth towards the lateral wall of the antrum, carry-