136 STRICTURE OF TRAOHEA PROM BLENNORRHCEA. pressure, had vanished again two weeks later. Was it pushed on one side by the pressure of the tube, or did it really subside when the paralysis of the vocal cord began to disappear ? I conceived it possible that the disease might be a rare form of syphilis, and with that idea applied mercurial ointment and gave iodides. How much this had to do with the improvement I am unable to say. In October, 1878, I heard with great pleasure that the patient was- still perfectly well. Stricture of trachea. A veiy rare form of stricture of the trachea was met with in a strong and well-huilt woman, set. 25, who ascribed the origin of her disease to catching severe cold three years previously while engaged in bleach- ing linen. Since that time she had been hoarse, constantly felt irri- tating sensations in the neck, and had much troublesome cough. The- sputa had never been very copious, but in the summer time often contained blood. For the four months preceding admission the troubles had increased very considerably, especially since she had been compelled to work near a manufactory, the smoke of which frequently occasioned her severe attacks of suffocation. The patient was sent up to the hospital to have tracheotomy performed. When admitted the respirations were forty to the minute and there was much straining of the muscles of the neck. A loud harsh sound was heard in the trachea at each inspiration, somewhat sharper on expiration,, as if the air then were forced through a narrow tunnel; this noise, which was sometimes of a faint hissing nature and sometimes more like a sigh, was uniformly audible over the entire lung. On percussion a normal note was yielded over all the chest. Frequently, the inspiration would he easy for a time, and would then he interrupted by a hoarse little cough; this occurred especially after exertion or moving about much, but did not entirely cease- even when she lay quiet in bed; the heart sounds were natural, the second sound perhaps a little intensified; all other functions normal. The patient had had no children and denied any gonorrhoeal or syphilitic infection. Prof. Stork reported to me as follows about the case: “ Profuse secretion of pus is found in the naso-pharyngeal region; the entire roof of the pharynx is covered with pus; the mucous membrane about the infundibula pale, and covered also with pus. Examined from in front, swelling of the mucous membrane is found in the nasal cavity; no ulcere or cicatrices are anywhere visible.' In the interior of the larynx, with the ex- ception of catarrh, evidenced by a moderate amount of swelling, and here and there some purulent secretion, nothing abnormal is to be seen. Very deep down in the trachea is seen a stenosis, diaphragmatic in form, the clear space having about the diameter of a goose-quill. The dyspnoea is in nowise proportionate to the stenosis, for in strictures of the trachea of the diameter seen in this case it is not usual to find the breathing so materially obstructed.