SEPTIC PERITONITIS AFTER OPERATION. 310 open through the wound, or it may break into the bladder, the large intestine, or the vagina. Cases which are thus left to them- selves, as a rule do well, and the discharge of the pus is accom- panied by a rapid decrease of the fever. Moreover, this may happen several times without harm. If distension, vomiting, restlessness, and rapid pulse supervene, there is but little hope for the patient, even though the temperature keeps low. The severest cases of septic peritonitis constantly run their course with a per- fectly normal temperature. Here we are met by a problem which has not yet been solved. As a high temperature would naturally be expected, can it be counterbalanced by other conditions, such as impairment of the renal functions and uraemia, or is it that the bulk of the absorbed septic products at once produces the low temperature of collapse ? It is not easy to believe that the quality of the septic products can vary so much as to cause high temperature in one case, while another can run its course not only without increase, but even with an active depression of the temperature. If in such cases the lower part of the abdominal wound is opened up, with the idea of letting out some sanious matter, little or nothing will be found. The severe symptoms above mentioned, are for the most part signs of diffused peritonitis, where all the intestines are covered by turbid, glutinous purulent effusion, which does not go on to the proper formation of fibrine. Before I habitually employed primary drainage, I had often occasion to reopen the wound, in order to let out the effusions, and in this way I have certainly saved patients who, otherwise, must assuredly have died. I then inserted drainage tubes and injected into the cavity weak solutions of carbolic acid and glycerine; in doing this, it is often remarkably difficult to hit on the entrance into Dou- glas’s pouch. When large quantities of sero-sanguineous septic fluid are encysted (which cases are usually characterised by high tem- peratures during the first few days) the fibrinous adhesions are some- times so tough that one scarcely dares to employ the force requisite to separate them, for fear of tearing the intestine; moreover, the uterus may be displaced backwards, and be so fixed that it is with difficulty detached. Separating the adhesions in this manner is best done within the first forty-eight hours • on the third or fourth day it is of but little use, for the general septic infection has commonly, by that time, proceeded too far. Vomiting during the first twenty-four hours is of slight import-