261 IDIOPATHIC CYSTITIS AND CYSTO-PYELITIS. injected. In cases of idiopathic catarrh of the bladder or the pelvis of the kidney, or in irritable bladder, I have never been able yet to find a sure and speedy remedy. Most patients grow weary of treatment which lasts for months. I will not mention here all the internal remedies which I have systematically employed in turn, but I may say emphatically that when the catarrh is associated with acid urine and irritability of the neck of the bladder, injections are, at best, but of temporary benefit; usually they are perfectly useless, and sometimes they increase the irritability of the bladder. Between i860 and 1876, I met with fourteen cases of chronic gonorrheal cystitis. The disease often went on for months, but usually subsided by means of careful diet and rest, and the per- sistent administration of copaiba. No severe symptoms were met with in any of these cases. Pure idiopathic cystitis and cysto-pyelitis, by which I mean cases in which the disease was not due to infection, stricture, syphilis, or hypertrophy of the prostate, I met with in thirty-eight instances. Thirty-three of the patients were men, and five women. I have devoted my best attention to the treatment of this dis- tressing affection, but it seems to me an almost hopeless one. I do not hesitate to say at once to these patients that I can give them advice by which their sufferings may be somewhat alleviated, but that I cannot cure them. My experience at Zurich led me to the same conclusion. In Vienna, where the disease was very common, I tried again all kinds of new and old remedies, but without any success, save that I was able in some instances to stall off fatal consequences; still, the results of my experience may be of use to others. These patients usually came to the hospital on account of acute exacerbation of their symptoms caused by alkaline fermentation of the urine in the bladder. Por this condition treatment could effect a good deal; in such cases I formerly used to wash out the bladder with a mixture containing one drop of strong muriatic acid to thirty grammes of water; but this very often gives much pain, and I was glad to find that there were other remedies which were equally efficacious, though slower in their action. Such arc phosphoric, nitric, or benzoic acids administered internally (I have not had any