ENOHONDROMA OP PELVIS : REMOVAL. 32£ was not possible to define the connection of the tumour within the pelvis, and we could only make out that the ramus ascendens and the tuber ischii were free from the growth. The horizontal ramus was unaltered. The vagina, the uterus, the bladder, and the intestines lay on the right side of the pelvic cavity and were not completely compressed. Within the pelvis the tumour occupied the left side to an extent which it was impossible to determine, and this fact still rather deterred me from operating although I had pondered the matter well in all its details. Again, the extent of the tumour was such that I seriously feared the haemorrhage, although in the case already referred to the bleeding was not formidable; still I trusted that compression of the aorta, which at the time of writing had recently been employed with good success, might enable me to overcome the difficulty. In order to allow the secretions to escape readily, I determined to cut away a portion of the ascending ramus and to employ free drainage. Ultimately, though with anxious misgivings, I decided to attempt the removal of the growth. I forbear to give in detail an account of the opera- tion, for it would occupy too much space, and merely premise that my assis- tants as well as myself devoted to it the utmost possible care and attention, feeling that our object was to save the life of a fellow-creature who was in the utmost jeopardy. At first all went on well enough; the connection of the huge tumour to the outer side of the pelvis was much smaller than we expected; its diameter was not greater than the forearm of an adult. I resected the greater paid of the horizontal ramus, hoping that when I had cut away also a portion of the ascending ramus, I should be able to turn out the tumour without any great difficulty, but on this occasion we found our- selves disappointed as to the connections of the tumour on the inner surface of the pelvis. The growth had no attachments to either of the portions of resected bone, hut, as appeared on further examination, to the inner surface on the left side, and that too, by a very broad base of attachment. The space which I had gained by the resection enabled me to introduce my hand into the cavity of the pelvis, and to remove the tumour in layers. In this I at length succeeded, though it occupied an hour or more, and was attended by severe venous hemorrhage from within the pelvis. From time to time the aortic tourniquet had to be relaxed. My courage sank at the long duration of the operation and tho gradual failure of my strength. At length the removal was completed. All the bleeding vessels were ligatured, and the entiro wound firmly plugged with tampons, but in the meanwhile the patient, though'" she was only partially narcotised, had become very anaemic and collapsed. We administered some hot coffee and wine which she vomited up at once. While dressing the wound we had enveloped all tho extremities with elastic bandagos. Immediately