178 KYPHOSIS. NECROSIS AND CARIES OP LUMBAR VERTEBRAL was observed during the whole time that the child was under observation. Kyphosis. Miliary tubercle of lungs and Jcidneys. H- H—, set. xi, had been suffering for many years, but for one year only previous to admission, was confined to bed. The pains first occurred in the neighbourhood of the left hip, and then along the spines of the vertebras. The child was extremely emaciated, and in a miserable condition, with marked angular curvature of the lower dorsal vertebrae ; the left lower extremity was much flexed at the hip and knee- joints ; the right in the same condition, but to a less extent. About the left thigh were cicatrices, and beneath Poupart’s ligament was a sinus which, together with another behind the trochanter, discharged thin, stinking pus. Baths were ordered and a liberal diet prescribed. Diarrhoea set in, and the child became marasmic. One day—three months after admission—he was attacked with severe headache and vomiting, which for a long time could not be controlled. Death followed three days after. During the last two hours of his life only, he was unconscious. Post mortem : some purulent exudation was found at the base of the brain, but no miliary tubercle ; in the centre of the right middle lobe of the brain was a caseous nodule, surrounded by softened brain tissue, with many punctiform extravasations. Some miliary tubercles in the apices of both lungs and miliary nodules in the lining membrane of the pelvis of the kidney. Necrosis of spinous process of lumbar vertebrce. Caries. A. W—, set, 16, a strong girl, fell off a stool, and caused herself great pain in the lumbar region. The pain persisted, but diminished in intensity. Gradually an "abscess^ formed over the lowest lumbar vertebra. Six weeks after the fall it broke ; since that time the opening never closed; it lay two fingers’ breadth on the right side of the middle line, and two inches above the sacrum. The probe detected the presence of a loose piece of bone, which about corresponded to the spinous process of the fifth lumbar vertebra. This was removed some months after. After the removal of the sequestrum, softened rotten bone could still be felt. Subsequently another chronic abscess formed over the os sacrum, below the sinus. We heard subsequently that she died a year and ten months after the commencement of the disease. Kyphosis. T. D—, set. 9, had ten months previously first noticed pain in the lumbar region. Eight months previously some of the lumbar vertebra? became prominent, causing a moderate amount of kyphosis; pressure on the affected part of the vertebral column caused no pain. The patient was kept on his