304 OVARIOTOMY. or else a bold plunge must be made into the tumour, the septa of the colloid cysts torn through, and the contents scooped out. This answers well enough when the septa are thin and not too numerous. If they are tough and vascular severe haemorrhage may come from the deep parts. The tumour may be adherent, and it may not be possible to expose it and the pedicle rapidly. Under such condi- tions, the situation is grave; the patients may lose much blood and the operator be in a serious perplexity. If I were to find myself in this dilemma, I should prefer to extend the incision, and draw out the tumour deliberately, leaving my assistants to press back the intestines by means of broad sponges. As soon as the tumour is exposed down to the pedicle, an assistant should hook up the upper end of the wound with his forefinger, and press together the abdominal walls with the other hand. This is the best way of pre- venting prolapse of the intestines. Another condition may be met with which may embarrass the most skilful operator, though careful examination will not usually fail to detect it beforehand. I mean when the tumour (simple cysts I have rarely met with) cannot be lifted up out of the true pelvis, but has to be detached. In such cases a portion of the tumour is usually enclosed between the folds of the broad ligament as if it were in a hernial sac. If this portion of the tumour is firmly adherent, the uterus may be so pushed up as to lie in front of the ovarian tumour. In one such case where I operated, the uterus, which was pressed nut flat and studded with small fibromata, lay so high that on opening the abdomen for a moment I thought my diagnosis was wrong, and that the case was one of cystoma of the uterus. Under such circumstances it is necessary quickly to discover the neck of the sac, where the lower portion of the tumour is invaginated into the ligament, and the tumour must then be carefully separated by the hand. Tolerably severe parenchymatous haemorrhage may occur, and long-continued pressure with sponges be found necessary. A pedicle proper can scarcely exist in such cases. The vessels, which are often large and resemble cord-like adhesions, should be ligatured before they are cut through. Another complication that I have always found dangerous, con- sists in adhesions to the uterus or bladder; in separating them great care is required. The only method of controlling the haemor- rhage is to apply pressure. In two cases of this description, urine escaped through the wound four or live days after the operation.