ELECTRO-PUNCTURE : COAGULATING AGENTS. GENU VALGUM. 459 an aneurism is not completely cured until the sac has entirely shrunk up; the formation of coagulum is but a means to gain this end; I do not, therefore, consider a treatment rational which seeks to bring about the formation of coagulum by direct chemical means. By electro-puncture and injection of Liq. "Ferri, coagu- lum can be formed artificially, or indirectly by acupuncture, but the complete coagulation of the aneurismal contents cannot be produced without risk to the patient. These methods of treatment, partly from mechanical, partly from chemical causes, set up irritation of the sac walls and may thus induce cicatricial shrinking ; we cannot, however, predict whether the inflammatory process will stop short at the proper time. In this fact lies the uncertainty and danger of such treatment; without, therefore, denying the possible efficacy of this method, I find no inducement to continue its experimental adoption. The number of my cases is too small to enable me to state the time required for cure by compression; in my patients this period varied between a few days and many months. Undoubtedly digital compression has many advantages, but there are so many practical difficulties in the way of applying it that I prefer instrumental compression. Genu Yalgum. Most of the cases of this nature which I met with at Zurich were treated by mechanical apparatus of various kinds. In the case of a man set. 25, with a very high degree of knock-knee (Baker’s leg),1 I divided the external ligaments of the knee subcutaneously on both sides. The results, with respect to subsequent treatment, were very gratifying. A child set. 7, with genu valgum, came under me, who had been treated as an out-patient for some time without success; the limb had been kept in a flexed position by means of a plaster bandage, lor this case I devised a special kind of apparatus. I lie thigh and the leg, including the foot, were enveloped in a plaster bandage over a layer of flannel; the knee was left uncovered. On the inner side of the thigh piece a stout strip of wood was placed, a little shorter than the limb; this was kept in position by 1 Billroth’s ‘ Path.,’ Hackley’s Trans., p. 529.