421 RESULTS OF OSTEOMYELITIS. effusion will be unable to escape; many, many cases of necrosis of the leg and thigh, came before us, which were treated without the hospital by small incisions usually made when the abscess was almost breaking on the surface. The medical attendant probably feared the hemorrhage which must inevitably result from long and deep incisions in the thigh. This only shows, as already remarked, that osteomyelitis frequently runs its course to a favourable termination with little or no help from the surgeon. Bearing this fact in mind, I only counsel amputation in the most extreme cases ; but little hope of recovery can be entertained from amputation, for the disease has a tendency to progress, and the operation has little power to check this tendency. I have recorded a case above (p. 413) where a girl, set. 14, recovered after having fourteen rigors. The patient had to thank my colleague Thiersch for the preserva- tion of her limb; amputation, to my mind, offered her the only chance of life. I have never observed relaxation of the ligaments after osteo- myelitis, often as I have seen the joints affected in such cases. Slight lengthening of the limb, owing to excessive growth of the affected bone, was common enough. Beckoning the total number of cases which came under treatment between 1870 and 1876, and including those entered as “necrosis/' as cases of osteomyelitis in which recovery had taken place, I find there were twenty-three in the upper and sixty-six in the lower extremity. Unfortunately, in the earlier cases the records do not show minutely that acute osteomyelitis was always the cause of the necrosis; but I do not think that I go too far, if of the eighty-nine cases I take fifty and reckon them as acute and subacute osteo- myelitis; excluding acute osteomyelitis of the articular ends of the bones, which probably were classified as acute inflammations of the joints, I have a sum total of sixty-six cases of acute and subacute osteomyelitis ending in recovery. Although I cannot from my figures, estimate the exact rate of mortality in this disease, I may say this much that the number of cases of acute osteomyelitis which recover, is by no means so small as would appear from clinical observations alone. The disease is far more common in the male sex; of the eighty-nine cases of necrosis, only seventeen occurred in women. It is difficult to say to what cause this enormous difference should be attributed. The patients often stated that the disease followed typhus fever.