TREATMENT OE CASEOUS LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 145 and has convinced himself, as he probably will do, that more than 75 per cent, of them contain caseous deposits, is likely to be deceived as to the possibility of such glands becoming absorbed, nor will he imagine that they can disappear without leaving cicatrices. Bearing this in mind, the surgeon will more readily counsel opera- tion to these patients. Of course, cases where other tubercular processes of the internal organs have been already diagnosed must be excluded. A further reason for advising operation is that such a proceeding is very rarely attended with any risk, and that the resulting cicatrices are, as a rule, less disfiguring than when the process is allowed to run its own course. Two different forms of operative measures may be adopted. 1. The sinuses may be enlarged superficially with the knife, and the deeper parts with sponge or laminaria tents; then the thinned ulcerated edges of the skin can be cut away, and the cavities scraped out with a sharp spoon, or else the surface of the wound may be destroyed with nitric acid, caustic potash, or liquor ferri, and the part left to heal up. I have adopted methods of this nature, modifying them according to circumstances, in many cases, and have had good reason to be satisfied with the results. One patient alone died of pyaemia after this treatment. The thickened capsules of the glands which are connected to the surrounding parts are commonly left behind; on their capacity for shrinking up, and on the yielding of the surrounding parts, the rapidity of recovery depends. It need hardly be said that these operations, which are often rather formid- able, are contra-indicated if the patients be in a low state. Cases will be met with in which the capsules of the glands and the parts immediately around them are so indurated that months may elapse before the sinus will close; sometimes remnants of the gland tissue remain behind, which then caseate, and materially delay recovery. The operation then has to be partially repeated. I must further remark that the surgeon should proceed boldly in scraping out and cutting away the ulcerated edges of the skin; the more the latter are spared the more ugly is the scar; thinned skin, ulcerated on its inner surface and overlying caseous and softened deposits, should always be removed. I have always regretted it, when I have oidy scrajjpd out the ulcerated surface below and have allowed such tissue to remain. 11 by good luck suppuration did not occur, yet the deeper part of the cicatrix became so prominent that the subsequent scar had a very unsightly appearance. 10