65 ETIOLOGY OF NEURALGIA OF FIFTH NERVE. Neuralgia of the Fifth Nerve. Between the years i860 and 1876, thirty-two cases of neuralgia of the fifth nerve, came under my care. Strange as it may seem, these typical neuralgias usually arise without any known cause. A cold was several times given as the origin, but in two-thirds of the cases the patients could assign no cause whatever. The first, “ tearing,” “ twinging,” “ darting,” and the slight and great “burning” sensations, came on quite unex- pectedly. Patients with tic douleureux are very sensitive to cold, especially to cold draughts playing on the face. Usually they muffle up their faces in wool, and move about as little as possible. Once I succeeded in inducing a patient to apply an ice-bladder on the affected part of the face for some few days, and to rub the skin of the face once daily with ice. The pains increased to such a degree, in spite of the administration of morphia injections at the same time, that the treatment had to be discontinued. In no single instance have I seen any benefit derived from blood-letting. Sex appears to have a great influence on this disease, for it is so infinitely more common in men, that any chance of coincidence can be excluded from the compiled statistics. Among thirty cases, the neuralgia commenced in thirteen, between the ages of 30 and 40, and in eight others between 41 and 50. The nerve most commonly affected is the second division. At first we invariably examined the nerves when cut out, but as we could neither discover anything wrong with the naked eye, nor with the aid of the microscope, the examination was afterwards discontinued. The disease, like many other spasmodic complaints, appears always to be purely functional. No case has occurred to me hitherto, in which tumours, exudations, etc., caused symptoms of tic douleureux by pressing upon or stretching the branches of the nerve itself, or any portion of the central nerve system. The nerves, at their exit from the spinal canal, might be compressed by diffused tubercular or cancerous disease of the vertebral column; but this will not cause neuralgic attacks as in tic, though of course, the pain in these cases is really very intense. True neuromata are usually only painful when touched. The few examinations of the brain, which have been made on persons who died with neuralgia of the fifth nerve, showed nothing, so far as I know, to elucidate the