130 CONGENITAL DIVERTICULUM OF OESOPHAGUS. Congenital diverticulum on the left side of the oesophagus. This case did not occur in my practice, and the only specimen that I know of which illustrates this very rare condition is a pre- paration presented to the Zurich Museum by Dr. Biihler, whose description I here append. “ The preparation was taken from a woman set. 56, and shows a diverti- culum of the oesophagus, about the size of a duck’s egg. The history was not clear, but it seems that she had had a tumour on the left side of the neck for many years, which was subject to occasional enlargement. Some of the food used to enter this quasi-stomach, and would remain there for a considerable time. In order to render swallowing easier, and in part also to empty the sac, she was accustomed to make pressure externally. When she did this the food, altered by acid fermentation, regurgitated with a kind of retching and produced a most disagreeable taste. In this way she could make the tumour disappear. WTien full the sac caused some neuralgic pains by pressing on the brachial plexus : this she could relieve by squeezing out the contents.” The patient died of tubercular peritonitis. Dr. Biihler looked upon the affection as one of congenital origin. With this view I must concur. The inlet of the diverticulum was about the size of a florin; the sac itself was formed of the mucous membrane and muscular coats of the oesophagus. The mucous membrane showed no trace of cicatrix. I could not clearly make out from the preparation the level at which the diverticulum opened into the oesophagus, but it must have about corresponded to that of the cricoid cartilage. Examination of the preparation led me to the conclusion that the diverticulum had been formed by the partial closing of one of the branchial fissures externally, while the internal opening had remained patent. I thought that this view had not been previously suggested, but I find a similar explanation in v. Bardeleben's surgery. Branchial fistula. Karl L—, set. 18, had from his birth a small sinus connected with the pharynx on the right side of the hyoid bone. The opening was covered by membrane. If milk were injected into the sinus it passed down into the throat.' 1 Full references to the literature of this subject will be found in a paper by Sir. J. Paget, in ‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1878, vol. lxi, p. 41. [Ed.]