508 THIRD AND FOURTH OASES OF REMOVAL OF PYLORUS. peritoneum opened, and the cancerous pylorus drawn forward as far as pos- sible. The large omentum was ligatured with eight and the small with six silk threads ; both were then cut through. The cancer was now found to be attached to the pancreas ; the separation was exceedingly difficult, for Pro- fessor Billroth, in view of the subsequent danger to the digestive functions, was unwilling to ligature the pancreas. The gastro-duodenal artery and several other vessels in the neighbourhood were secured. The isolation of the pancreas alone occupied about an hour. The stomach was divided obliquely as far as the centre, as shown in Plate III, fig. 6. The organ con- tained no fluid. Ten occlusion sutures were now put in, and the rest of the stomach divided down to the greater curvature. The duodenum was now cut obliquely from above downwards. On tins occasion no provisional sutures were inserted. The back wall of the duodenum was united to that of the stomach by five “inner intestinal” sutures, and the mucous membranes also brought together by three fine threads. The rest of the “ ring sutures ” were completed from the outside. The total number required was thirty-six. The operation lasted two hours and a half; very little blood was lost; none of the contents of the stomach or duodenum escaped into the peritoneal cavity. The shape of the stomach was very satisfactory, as shown in Plate III, fig. 7. The patient, who was very ana;mic, was much collapsed during the operation. She retched frequently during the afternoon, in the evening became suddenly restless, and died the same night. The excised portion measured twelve centimetres along the greater curva- ture, and five along the lesser. The opening of the pylorus just admitted the finger. The growth proved to he medullary cancer. At the post mortem it was found that the cut edge of the duodenum was about five centimetres from the opening of the ductus choledochus, but this, as well as the pancreatic duct, was well away from the region of operation. Cancerous glands were found near the head of the pancreas and in the lesser omentum. In addition there was great general anaemia, old tuberculosis of the apices of the lungs, and miliary tubercle on and about the pleura. Iii future, the operation should not be undertaken in cases such as the above; the great anaemia and the union of the cancer to the pancreas make it a matter of no surprise that the patient died so rapidly. Another time we should abstain from excising the pylorus if an exploratory incision revealed a similar state of affairs. Case 4.—On the 8th of April, 1S81, Dr. Wolilcr had an opportunity of resecting a cancerous pylorus in a patient, aet. 52. The tumour was about the size of an apple, and freely movable in every direction. A transverse incision was made above the umbilicus; the pylorus was readily isolated, as there were no pathological adhesions. The stomach, which was greatly dilated, was cut through obliquely from left to right, beginning at the lesser curvature. Ten occlusion sutures were inserted, and the stomach then com- pletely divided. Three threads were inserted provisionally through the duo- denum in order to fix the gut, which was then cut through in the direction