REMARKS ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 39 the head from front to back, carrying splinters of bone through the brain; in both, the bullets were afterwards found on the inner sur- face of the occipital bone, against which they had impinged with- out perforating. One of these unfortunate suicides survived the injury twenty-four, the other thirty-eight hours. The other cases terminated fatally, for the most part, about the thircb day. Contu- sion of the brain substance and suppurative meningitis were almost invariably found; in one case only was death brought about by compression from extravasated blood. 3. Cases in which the brain symptoms first began some time after the injury, that is to say, from twelve to twenty-four hours up to from three to twenty-eight days. All the cases met with at Zurich which came under this head terminated fatally, the greater number from suppurative meningitis following limited depression. Metastatic abscesses in the lungs were found in one case where the brain symptoms began after a rigor occurring on the twelfth day. In another case brain sym- ptoms showed first on the twenty-eighth day. Here there was a depression at the back of the head with the fragments firmly wedged in (the injury had been caused by a falling brick), and some portions of the internal table were necrosed; this latter was doubtless the cause of the extensive suppurative meningitis which was set up so late. General Bemarks. It is easy enough, in cases of head injury, where the sensorium is unaffected and the general condition normal, to note the commence- ment of congestion or inflammation of the brain. In cases, how- ever, of compression or of severe commotio cerebri (which con- ditions are often not easily to be separated, and which are very frequently combined), dating from the reception of the injury, the onset of meningitis is often very difficult to determine; in such cases inflammatory symptoms are mostly wanting, and the patient not uncommonly passes directly from a semi-conscious, or highly restless condition, into a state of profound coma. Under such circumstances, the rigors, which not infrequently clearly indicate the onset of meningitis, are wanting. According to my experience, dilatation of the pupils and slowing of the pulse first appear, when