OPERATIVE TREATMENT. 2 24 of cancer is already deposited; this is sufficient to cause further in- fection. Operation would effect far more in mammary cancers if surgeons would but determine to excise unhesitatingly every sus- picious nodule in the breast. On the slightest appearance of local recurrence the whole breast should be at once removed, and removed freely, together with every enlarged axillary gland; it would be better perhaps, when the nodules are growing rapidly, to remove the entire gland at the first operation. So long as surgeons are not convinced of the absolute necessity of his proceeding, and do not impress it on the laity, so long will the results of treatment fail to improve. Away with ointments and caustics; the one thing that can be of use in this disease is the knife in the hand of a skilful surgeon. No doubt cases will always occur where the growth is so rapid and the infection of the lymphatic glands and the blood so swift, that nothing avails, but in very many cases, if the treatment were dif- ferent, benefit might be far more enduring, lasting perhaps some- times for the rest of the patient's life. As the matter now stands between the profession and the public, the majority of women come up for operation far, far too late. This is proved especially by the many instances in which, after operation for mammary cancer, recurrence takes place both locally and in the lymphatic glands. Indeed, it is seldom possible to perform a complete operation, i.e. to remove the whole of the diseased part. Ceterum censeo : we can benefit these patients alone by operating on them far earlier than we are accus- tomed to do at present. Granted that even this is not possible in all instances, yet it is the case with many of these unfortunate women. A search through my records with a view to determine the duration of life after operation, shows that some died in from two to eight months; others lived from one and a quarter up to three and a quarter years after operation. Seven of the forty-nine cases were living when this was written, but with recurrence of the disease. One was still alive with recurrence three years after the operation; while six were alive without recurrence at periods varying from fifteen months to six years. I am sure that the experience of other surgeons must be very much the same; still, I am firmly convinced that the results would be better if the operations had been performed earlier. It appears to me that we are on most points in the dark, with regard to cancer of the breast—this frequently-occurring disease. It matters not whether the patients be married or single, fruitful or