378 NEURALGIA. ENLARGED BURSA. ATHEROMA. modically drawn back about fifty times per minute, tire movement being accompanied by a faintly audible cracking noise. The serratus magnus muscle appearod chiefly affected, but no reason could be discovered for the spasm. Wo had not an opportunity of studying this choraic-like movement for vory long, for the spasms suddenly disappeared one day after the arm had boon forcibly raised for some time, for the purpose of examination. Tho spasms did not return during the next three days, and the patient was then discharged. Neuralgia. Herr H—, a Russian, set. 30, came under my treatment in 1875. He informed me that, about six years previously, from no known cause, he had severe pain from time to time at a certain point on the right little finger; the spot was very sensitive when touched, and the pain extended up the arm from it. Two years before, Pirogoff had excised the painful part of skin together with a portion of the matrix of the nail. Tho wound healed up, but the symptoms were unrelieved except that the shooting sensations did not extend up the arm when the cicatrix was touched. By means of an incision over the first phalanx, I excised a portion of the volar branches of the ulnar and radial nerve a centimetre and a half in length. The effect of . this was to limit the loss of sensation to the affected part. When he left, ten days after the operation, he was free from the attacks, and pressure on the cicatrix did not occasion any pain. Unfortunately, I could not succeed in learning whether the cure was a permanent one. Enlarged deltoid hursa. A man, mt. 17, came under treatment with a tumour, the size of a goose- egg, situated on the upper part of the left shoulder, in the deltoid muscle. Fluctuation was very distinct. No communication could be made out between the swelling and the shoulder-joint; the cyst was punctured, and some clear, highly albuminous, yellow fluid escaped, which contained a few small pale round cells. Probably this was a case of enlarged subcutaneous bursa. Atheroma of the finger. Herr G—, set. 40, came to me with a small hard nodule which he had noticed for some years on tho tip of his right middlo finger. He attributed its origin to a wound received a long time previously from a flying splinter of a percussion cap. Tho tumour was about tho size of a largo pea, tolerably firm, and rather tender. No positive diagnosis could bo made, but it was thought to be probably due to a foreign body. On laying it open sebaceous matter immediately escaped, and the Avails of tho groAvth collapsed, so that there was some difficulty in removing the Avhole of the adherent cyst. The