336 SAECOMA OF THE PELVIC CAVITY. Sarcoma of the pelvic cavity. An instance of this occurred in a man, act. 20. For five weeks the patient had suffered from darting and throbbing pains, radiating from the sacrum down the right leg, and followed after a time by obstinate constipation. The right leg then began to swell so much that the patient became unable to do his work. He was admitted into the hospital, and a tumour was discovered in the pelvis. Troubles in micturition ensued, and catheterisation became more and more difficult, so that the patient was transferred to my care. I found a soft, elastic tumour, the size of a large foetal head, which lay behind the bladder and the upper part of the symphysis, and could be felt also from the rectum. A thick elastic catheter alone could he introduced into the bladder; the patient passed but little urine, and hut a small quantity was drawn off. On puncturing the tumour through the abdominal wall only blood was withdrawn; finally, it became impossible to introduce even the elastic catheter into the bladder, and the patient passed no urine for twenty, four hours. I thereupon made an incision, six centimetres long, through the abdominal wall on to the upper border of the capsule of the tumour. The abdominal walls were so closely applied to the surface of the tumour that I had no fear of prolapse of the intestine, and merely applied an anti- septic bandage. During the following evening about an ounce of urine was voided. The next day I found that the capsule of the tumour was so firmly united by adhesions to the abdominal walls that I was forced to cut into the mass. The next night again only about one ounce of urine was passed; nothing of the tumour could be felt through the bladder; the third day I set to work carefully and scooped out the medullary mass from its capsule with my fingers, which I easily succeeded in doing. The hmmorrhage was controlled by plugging the cavity with two carbolised sponges which were removed the same evening. Now that the capsule of the tumour had collapsed the distended bladder could be distinctly felt, and by means of an ordinary elastic catheter I drew off 500 grammes of turbid alkaline urine. The catheter was ordered to be kept in the bladder, but the patient, who was somewhat troublesome, let it slip out after a few hours. During the next few days large quantities of urine were voided, some being passed naturally and some drawn off by the catheter; the capsule of the tumour collapsed more and more. I did not think there would be any danger of the intestines protruding, as the fibrinous adhesions were so firm. The seventh day after the incision, however, the patient was exceedingly restless, the result of which was that the bandage became loose and a long loop of intestine pro- lapsed. This was replaced and the capsule of the tumour was united by sutures to the abdominal wall, but rapid collapse set in, and he died the next day. The sole object of the operation, viz. to allow the escape of the urine, was attained ; more than this was not possible, for we found