CICATRICIAL CONTRACTION OF MOUTH. 81 wall of the pharynx by a kind of sphincter apparatus, which lies above the union of the soft to the hard palate, and may be regarded as the uppermost portion of the constrictor pharyngis. This sphincter is always defective anteriorly in total fissure of the velum, and in those cases where the fissure involves the hard as well as the soft palate. The union of the velum palati and the muco-periosteal lining of the palate does not lead to the functional development of this muscle. This appears to me to explain why, after operations on adults, speech is not improved. I noticed this fact after my first operation for cleft of the hard palate, and Simon, Passavant, Siiersen, and others have arrived at the same conclusions. Siiersen describes the benefits of using an obturator in such glow- ing terms that, according to him, we ought almost to discard ope- rations for congenital fissures of the palate. Deformities Treated by Plastic Operations. I met with a few cases of cicatricial contraction of the mouth, resulting from periosteal abscess in the neighbourhood of the back part of the lower jaw. In most of these the cicatricial bands were only on one side, and situated far back, so that the mouth could either not be opened at all, or at the best, only to a slight extent. Under the influence of an anaesthetic, the jaws were forced apart by Keister's speculum and then the bands being cut through, the blades of the speculum were separated to the widest possible extent. After treatment for several weeks with the introduction of wooden wedges, the function of the jaw was so far restored that in some of the cases the mouth could be opened 5 centimetres. I cannot say how long this good effect lasted : at any rate none of the patients came back to me. In another case the contraction was the result of destruction of the lip by noma; another followed after the excision of a cancer. In both of these I replaced the lower lip and the angles of the mouth on both sides, by flaps taken from the cheeks and chin. The mouth subsequently became contracted, partly owing to the con- traction of the cicatrices, and partly from the adhesions of the lip to the lower surface of the jaw. In a third case the opening of the mouth was so narrowed by a rhinoscleroma,1 which extended over the lips, that it would only just admit the end of a pencil. In 1 See Mikulicz, “ Ucbcr das ltliinosclcrom‘Arch. f. Klin. Cliir.,’ 13d. xx, p. 4*5- G