278 POSSIBILITY OP DISSOLVING CALCULUS. high and lateral lithotomy. In this case, I had an opportunity of seeing how readily wounds of the bladder will heal, when by the continual free escape of urine the viscus is practically converted for the time into an empty tube. Although it may seem highly heretical to many of my colleagues yet I cannot forbear from saying a word or two on the possibility of dissolving vesical calculus. I once saw in consultation with v. Pitha an old gentleman, who produced a large box containing a collection of angular fragments of calculus. V. Pitha, who had had the patient under his treatment for a long time, handed the box to me without any remark. I naturally supposed that the fragments were the result of numerous successful crushings, and I was not a little sur- prised therefore, to hear that the patient had never been operated on, but that the fragments of stone had been spontaneously evacu- ated while he was undergoing treatment at Carlsbad. Y. Pitha had declined to operate on the patient, on account of the amount of vesical catarrh. Examination of the debris showed it to consist of broken shell-like fragments : the surfaces of fracture were laminated and it was evident that the calculi were not a collection of small stones, but portions of a large one. The stone had broken up into such minute pieces, that most of them were passed with the urine, although the expulsive power of the bladder was feeble. In the atlas of “ micro-geologyby II. Meckel v. Hemsbach,— unfortunately not published—and in the very rich collection in my clinic, which consists principally of stones collected by Dr. Keyher of Cairo, I find numerous calculi, some of which show very distinctly a tendency to break up in a radiating, some in a concentric manner. Others show both forms of disruption. I should, under other conditions, scarcely have believed that this disruption could have led to so extensive a breaking down as occurred in the above case. I think that I have sometimes seen fragments of stone left after lithotrity, especially when consisting of triple phosphates, disappear under the constant administration of acids. In several instances, where a week previously there had been numerous small fragments, repeated examination failed to detect anything in the bladder. It is possible that one is deceived in such cases, and that the urine was not all filtered with sufficient care, but in some instances, the cir- cumstance was too striking to escape notice. There is nothing so very curious in the fact that substances,