PARALYSIS AFTER FRACTURE. 350 E. F—, set. 6, fell down some stairs and sustained a fracture of tlie liumerus which was treated by splints. Union took place, but the hand could not be moved. No improvement followed, as the result of his taking sixty mud baths and a great many soap baths (Seifenbader). He came up to the hospital about five months after the injury; the forearm was com- pletely pronated, and the hand flexed. The fingers were extended at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, and strongly flexed at the distal phalangeal joints, the thumb alone being extended ; the fingers and hand were cold and of a bluish colour. Very slight active movement took place at the wrist; sensation nowhere lost. Half an inch above the elbow-joint, a small, hard prominence of the humerus was perceptible, and just below this, on the flexor aspect, a cicatrix an inch in length. The child was placed under Pro- fessor Benedict’s treatment, and the constant current was employed for three weeks. The thenar muscles alone answered to the galvanism, and this treatment led to no improvement. The analogy of the above with the other cases already described gives room for the supposition that the musculo-spiral and median nerves were, in all probability, involved in the callus. By par- tially gouging away this callus and freeing the nerve, it appeared to me that the functions might be restored; accordingly I dissected out the musculo-spiral nerve from the groove between the supinator longus and the biceps, exposing it for four and a half inches, up to its dorsal branch. The nerve was normal in appearance, neither thickened nor atrophied, and perfectly free from the slightest adhe- sion ; but it did not answer to irritation by the point of a needle, nor did any action take place when the pole of a rotatory electric apparatus was applied directly to it. When the nerve was touched quite at the upper part contraction of the triceps followed. As no alteration could be detected in the nerve, and particularly as no adhesion was discovered, the wound was closed; after the effect of the ansesthetic had passed off the patient complained of some pain in the right arm which yielded to a morphia injection. The wound healed rapidly, the greater part by first intention. Tor the next three weeks the condition remained unaltered. Galvanism was then resorted to again for a month, at the end of which time Professor Benedict noticed the following singular phenomenon:— When both poles were applied to the affected arm no effect was manifested, but if the second electrode were laid on the sound arm, the muscles of the forearm and fingers on the affected side con- tracted, and this contraction was the more forcible according to