TUMOR ALBUS OF THE KNEE. 441 menced as periostitis on the posterior surface of the lower end of the femur. Small portions of hone came away from time to time, and the sinuses closed up ultimately after six years. The result was that the knee was somewhat stiff, but his walking was not interfered with. The year before his admission he was attacked with acute inflammation of the same knee-joint, which ran on to suppuration, and terminated in ankylosis. When admitted, the left leg was completely ankylosed at a right angle. As extension under an anaesthetic did not succeed, I removed a wedge-shaped piece from the con- dyle, and was then able to put the leg perfectly straight. The limb was put up in a plaster splint. Spasmodic movements of the leg were very trouble- some for about a fortnight, but yielded to opium and morphia injections. The febrile reaction was remarkably slight. Six months later the following report was sent to me:—“ The sinuses completely closed three months after the operation; the patient will soon be able to get about without any support; the knee-joint can be flexed through about io°; the shortening amounts- to about two inches.” Tumor Albus of the Knee. Tables showing the age at which, in 331 patients, this disease commenced, will be found in the ‘ Wiener Bericht/ 1876, p. 559. Ninety-eight cases commenced between the ages of one and ten, and three are recorded as occurring between the ages of sixty-one and seventy-one.1 I find that the percentage of mortality rises from 6 to 57 per cent, if suppuration occurs. On the whole, suppuration is rather less dangerous in the knee- than in the hip-joint; the prospect of recovery in disease of the knee is slightly greater than in hip-joint disease. The following case of excision, where the operation was followed by acute meningitis, deserves notice. George W , ret. 5, had suffered from swelling and pain in the left knee for nine months ; the disease was of traumatic origin. Under an anaes- thetic, the knee-joint was extended, and a plaster bandage applied. This 1 Probably under the category of tumor albus is included more than one affection of the joint, and not solely the disoase now commonly known in England as “pulpy degeneration.” [Em]