CASES OP CARBOLIC ACID POISONING. 11 so that by 9.30 a.m. in the morning (twenty-four hours after the opening of the abscess) the temperature had risen to 99'6°, and answers could be elicited. The pulse again was perceptible (132). Collapse again occurred, however; urine and thin dark motions were passed unconsciously. By midday the temperature again sank to 97‘5° and did not rise towards evening. The urine passed was now of a dark olive-green colour; towards evening the vomiting ceased. The child, though much exhausted, recovered completely by the second day, and the temperature again became normal; by the fourth day the urine was of natural colour. The abscess healed up rapidly. Case.—In a little girl, set. 65, excision of the head of the femur, below the trochanter, was performed for caries, under 2 per cent, carbolic steam spray. The notes do not say whether the wound was washed out with 5 per cent, carbolic solution at the conclusion of the operation. Lister’s dressings were applied and renewed after a few hours. The day after the operation the urine was of a dark olive-green colour; the patient suffered from nausea and vomited dark olive-green fluid; the temperature stood at ioi'4°. Sulphuric acid was prescribed. On the third day she was lethargic and vomited black fluid. The morning temperature on this third day was I03'8°, and the evening 99'6°. Consciousness returned, and sickness ceased on the fifth day. On the eighth day the urine was of natural colour; slow convalescence followed. Immediately on the occurrence of the carbolism the Lister’s dressings were replaced by thymol dressings. Case.—A girl, set. 6, was admitted with hip-joint disease, with abscess and sinuses. She had no albuminuria, but her general condition was very feeble. The sinuses were dilated and syringed out every fourth day with 5 per cent, carbolic-acid solution, which was allowed to escape immediately. The urine turned olive green. The upper end of the femur was resected under thymol spray, and the wound washed out with thymol solution, as carbolism existed. Lister’s dressings were applied. The day after the operation the child, who was in a very reduced and anaemic condition, vomited several times; the green colour of the urine persisted. Two days after the operation the wound was dressed as before, but without the use of the spray. The patient now began to lose consciousness; the urine was passed involuntarily; the stools were very dark. Sodae Sulph. was prescribed. Two days later the wound was again dressed in the same way as before (I thought it hardly possible that a dangerous amount of carbolic acid could be taken up from the gauze dressings when the wound was covered with protective. Iu former cases I had always laid the blame on the spray, the syringing of the wound, or soaking the gauze in carbolic acid). The stools were black and loose, and the patient vomited on several occasions black fluid. It was found necessary to discontinue the Sodaj Sulph. on account of the diarrhoea. During: the next two days the dressings were changed daily; the motions and urine continued black. Ou the eighth day after the operation simple spermaceti gauze was substituted for the thymol and carbolic dressings. From this time no further symptoms of carbolism occurred. The wound meanwhile had almost healed, but