cases OE SARCOMA. 38-1- Spindle-celled sarcoma, originating in the sheaths of the tendons. This case is remarkable not only on account of the tumour, but also for the symptoms following the administration of chloroform. Johann A—, set. 38, stated that from early childhood his left forearm had been thicker than the right. Nine months before admission, he received a blow on that arm, 'which caused him severe pain. A small lump formed at the site of injury, which remained stationary for a time, and then began to increase rapidly. I amputated the arm through the lower third. The haemorrhage was controlled by acupressure. Immediately on the con- clusion of the operation, while the patient was still under the influence of chloroform, a sixth of a grain of morphia was injected. The operation was performed at 11 o’clock in the morning, and from that time until six in the evening the patient was in a state of wild delirium; he did not recognise those standing about him, stated that he had been poisoned, attempted to escape, etc. Towards night the mania passed off. Five days later, he had a rigor, and fifteen days after the amputation he died of pyaemia. Post mortem: the cellular tissue of the posterior wall of the pharynx opposite the third and fourth oervical vertebrae was infiltrated with purulent matter; purulent thrombi were found in the femoral and iliac veins and in those of the stump as well as purulent infiltration of the connective tissue about the right elbow-joint. Osteo-sarcoma of the clavicle. Therese E—, set. 13, was admitted in 1870. She related that a year pre- viously, as she was lifting a heavy weight, she experienced a sudden pain in the left shoulder, and was unable to work for some days. About a month before admission, she had noticed a tumour the size of a walnut on the left clavicle. I found the outer half of this bone occupied by a firm, elastic tumour of the size of a hen’s egg, reaching nearly up to the acromial end. I removed the growth by sawing through the clavicle at the junction of the internal and middle thirds, and enucleating the bone at the acromial articu- lation. The patient was discharged a month later, with a small sinus, leading down to a piece of necrosed bone on the sawn extremity of the clavicle. She had full use in the arm; the growth proved to be a small-celled osteo-sarcoma, in the centre of which the bone was completely destroyed. About a year and a half later, the patient was again operated on for a local recurrence of the growth, of about the same size as the former tumour. Notwithstanding the extensive resection of the clavicle, the utility of the arm was not in the least impaired.