284 EXTROVERSION OF THE BLADDER AND EPISPADIAS. Extroversion or the Bladder and Epispadias. Previous to 187.1 I had had do opportunity of treating any of these cases. It seemed to me—as it has also to many others—that the sacrifice of time, and the pain incurred by the patients were wholly out of proportion to the results obtained. Since that date however, I have been successful in a few cases, and there is now no doubt that as time has gone on the principles and method of operation have greatly improved. The length of treatment, too, is less than it was. It is true that we cannot restore the functions of the malformed parts completely, but we can materially improve the condition of these unfortunate individuals. We are not able always to render male patients with this malformation capable of coitus. I do not well see how we can do so; still it is by no means certain that a future genera- tion of surgeons will not achieve this result. After the bladder is covered in and the urethra formed, the patient may be considered cured, so far as the plastic operation is concerned, but the farther difficulty arises of providing by artificial means for the retention of the urine. Herein the protliesis has to fit in with the operative result, or vice versa. These are purely technical difficulties, which can and must be solved. The cases are so rare that one cannot arrive early at any definite conclusion. Up to the end of 1876 I had operated on nine persons with extroversion of the bladder, and epispadias; three died; one wras sent away unimproved; four were cured; one is still under treatment. One of the fatal cases was of considerable interest; the cause of death was pyelitis, an affection which seems to be distinctly connected with extroversion of the bladder. The case was that of a man, set. 28, who had frequently passed pure pus from the right ureter before the operation. Whenever this symptom occurred, the patient felt ill and had pains in the neigh- bourhood of the kidney. The urine coming through the other ureter was normal and contained no pus. 1 had several times operated on the patient after my own method, and the only thing that remained to be done was, to close the so-called “ funnel ” at the symphysis. A11 attack of erysipelas followed the operation; the wound became diphtheritic, and the urine strongly ammoniacal. The patient withstood the disease three weeks before he finally suc- cumbed. The post mortem revealed extensive pyelitis on the right