IODINE INJECTIONS IN BRONCHOCELES. 171 which is steadied by the left hand, and the contents of the syringe rapidly injected. There is no need to put any plaster over the little puncture. I describe this proceeding minutely, since I should like to see this method more extensively adopted by practical surgeons, and perceive that many avoid it from fear of some ill consequences resulting from not carrying out the details accurately. There may be some trouble and delicacy required in puncturing bronchoceles smaller than a hen’s egg; of course, nothing should be injected unless the operator is certain that the point has entered the hronchocele, for to inject tincture of iodine into the cellular tissue would probably cause suppuration. It does not matter in what direction the puncture is made. It is better to vary the situa- tion of the punctures and the directions in which the fluid is injected. If the diameter of a bronchocele can be approximately estimated, there is no danger of penetrating it and injuring the trachea, oesophogus, or the large vessels of the neck. This method of treatment can only present any difficulties when the bronchoceles are small and very movable. The immediate effect of the injection varies greatly in different patients; most of those so treated experience just a slight burning sensation after the injection: others describe an unpleasant feeling of tension, while many complain of severe pain extending over the whole face and jaws, which lasts for several minutes and is at times associated with a sensation of great distress and faintness. The presence of iodine can be proved after a short time—say half an hour—in the urine and saliva. Slight swelling and pain, lasting from three to eight days, is nearly always experienced about the injected part. If, as usually happens during the subsequent week, distinct, though only slight diminution in size takes place, the treatment may be pursued with confidence. The patients are able to estimate with tolerable accuracy the diminution in the size of the growth by the fit of their clothes or cravats. If a rapid cure be required, we should not wait until all trace of tenderness resulting from the previous injection has passed away; a syringe-full should be injected twice or three times a week, at different parts of the bronchocele; more than this, according to my experience, is not to be recommended. Many patients are anxious to get well with the utmost possible speed; they may experience little or no pain from frequent injections, or, if they do, they keep it to themselves. If