410 VARIETIES OP GANGRENE. (c) Gangrene prom Hyperplastic Endarteritis. I first became minutely acquainted with this disease through the writings of Felix v. Winiwarter (f Archiv fur Klin. Chirurg./ 13d. 23, p. 302), who points out that hyperplastic endarteritis (endarteritis and endophlebitis proliferans) may occur in apparently healthy individuals, and leads to the formation of thrombi, which become organised and vascular; the variety cannot be diagnosed without che aid of the microscope. Syphilis or alcoholism may give rise to this form of endarteritis. It is doubtful whether the gangrene arising in cases of diabetes mellitus belongs to the same category. The affection requires further investigation; usually there are prodromal symptoms extending over periods of some years, such as weakness of the circu- lation, mottling of the skin over the joints, sensations of cold, formication, inability to stand long, or to walk far; some accidental contusion or cut leads first to atonic, and then to sloughing ulcera- tion. The gaugrene progresses very slowly, and is usually moist; it is generally accompanied by severe pain and chronic septic sym- ptoms. There is some risk in waiting for the line of demarcation, for the gangrene is apt to commence anew after the demarcation has apparently been established. It is best to amputate at some distance above the gangrene, as soon as the diagnosis is made. (d) Gangrene prom Atheromatous Arteritis; Senile Gangrene. This form occurs principally in males; slight injuries, such as pressure from a boot, or inflammation about the nails, are frequently assigned as the starting-points; the disease commonly begins with a circumscribed stasis, and formation of blebs containing sanious fiuid, on either side of the toes. Evidence of chronic alcoholism is frequently discovered post mortem. Anatomically as well as clinically, these cases may be divided into two groups. (1) Thrombosis arising from aneurism of the femoral or popliteal artery, which commences gradually and finally becomes complete. (2) Gradual thrombosis of the smaller digital arteries, with pro- gressive gangrene; this form may begin over the distribution of the dorsalis pedis or the posterior tibial artery. The ages of the