1 from a dissertation by Dr Zollinger, Zurich, 1807. PARALYSIS OF SEERATI MUSCLES. 107 extending from the fourth, to the eighth dorsal vertebrae. The heart sounds were natural; no abnormal sound could he detected on auscultation over the tumour. There was no particular pain in pressing the growth, hut the patient complained of pain radiating away from it, in a downward direction. Two days after admission, he complained to his next neighbour of a dimness -df vision; immediately after he had an attack of dyspnoea and became com- pletely unconscious. The assistant who was called to him found the pulse much quickened, the respirations rapid, the face blanched and sunken, the lips and gums white. He died a quarter of an hour after. Post-mortem.—A quantity of partly coagulated, partly fluid blood poured, out of the cavity of the mouth. The left lung, was highly emphysematous. Close below the bifurcation of the trachea and connected to the posterior walls of both bronchi, was a tumour, the size of a hen’s egg, whieh was attached also to the anterior wall of the oesophagus. The commencement of the thoracic aorta was dilated into a sac, firmly connected to the chest walls and the vertebral column. An opening in the wall of the oesophagus, was found to he connected with a second small aneurism filled with blood clot. The principal aneurism was full of old firmly adherent coagulum. There was considerable destruction of the ribs and vertebral column ; the spinal canal was exposed for three or four centimetres. The stomach contained an enor- mous mass of coagulated blood. Paralysis of loth serrali muscles. This affection was observed in a baker, act. 25, in whom the paralysis probably originated from over-exertion. The paresis had gradually become complete, and affected also other of the scapular muscles. j Ossification of the fascia of the lack} U. E—-, of Zell, Ct. Zurich, about twenty-four years old, had, so far as his parents could remember, been perfectly healthy up to three years old. No hereditary tendency to this or any similar affection existed; the patient himself ascribed the origin of his condition to a fall when he was three years old, in which he alighted heavily on his outstretched hands, and for a long- : time after had severe pain in both shoulders. No dislocation seems to have taken place at any rate at the time; the surgeon who attended him only prescribed cold water applications to the painful parts. Very shortly after the fall, according to the patient’s account, the move- ments of the arms began to be more and more restricted, and in the course of i some years the condition which existed on admission gradually developed 1 (see I' ig. 13). At first he was able to work in a manufactory, but eventually the limited movements of his arms prevented him from doing any work, so that for many years before admission he had been without any calling. It