242 ABDOMINAL SECTION FOR INTERNAL STRANGULATION. by internal medicine, I proposed an operation, to which the patient gladly assented. As there was a chance that the formerly existing hernia might be strangulated in the right inguinal canal, an incision was made through the skin in this region. On dissecting down, a hernia sac indeed was found, but it was empty. The abdominal wall was next slit up as far as the internal opening, but no strangulation was there found. I introduced my finger deeply, but could feel nothing abnormal. I then carried up the incision through the abdominal wall, first two, then four inches above the internal ring, and, exposed some very red and distended intestine. The gut was pressed to one side, and after some search, It was found that a tolerably long loop of intestine had slipped through a hole in the mesentery, and had thereby become strangulated. In attempting carefully to draw back the loop of intestine, I tore it at the strangulated spot. The faces escaped through an opening about the size of a shilling, but we managed to prevent all but a very small portion from escaping into the abdomen. I then enlarged the opening into the mesentery, and carefully drew back the entire loop. Except at the ruptured spot, this coil of intestine was not materially injured. The abdominal cavity was washed out, and the portion of intestine in which the opening lay was united to the abdominal wall in such a way as to allow the contents to escape externally. Although the patient was reduced to an extremely weak state, the vomiting ceased, and the distension subsided entirely. The faeces passed out through the fistula. Unfortunately, two or three days after the operation, phlegmonous inflammation commenced about the wound, the result, as was afterwards discovered, of the sloughing of the abdominal fascia. Partial gangrene followed with collapse, and he died nine days after the operation. Post mortem : extensive fibrous adhesions were found, chiefly in the right side, which connected the folds of intestine together. The open part of the intestine was united to the abdominal wall. Although this case ended fatally, yet it has more encouraged than deterred me from similar operations. I think now that I committed a great error at the outset, in making my incision for the laparo- tomy in the side, and still more, of continuing it in that region. Such an incision would have been quite proper, on the supposition that the strangulation was situated at the internal abdominal riug. But as soon as this idea was shown to be incorrect, it would have been better to have made a new incision in the linea alba. The lateral wound throughout the muscular abdominal wall, the conse- quent haemorrhage, and especially the difficulty of uniting the incision by sutures, together with the pressure which had necessarily to be exerted on the wound, were all conditions very unfavourable to rapid healing. Cases occur from time to time where all the sym- ptoms point to severe ileus, and yet spontaneous recovery takes place. In such the diagnosis may be very difficult. Bearing in