CASES OF NASO-PHARYNGEAL POLYPI. 100 Fibr o-cavernous naso-pharyngeal polypi. E. K—, set. 23, of strong constitution, was admitted in January, 1861. For two yearsjlie had noticed a gradually increasing obstruction of the right nasal cavity. Six weeks previously a surgeon had attempted to remove a tumour from this cavity; profuse haemorrhage followed the attempt, but nothing was brought away. On examination, I found a fibrous polypus attached to the base of the skull, and extending into the right nasal cavity and antrum; the right side of the palate was thinned and pushed forward. Von Langenbeck’s osteoplastic resection of the right nasal process of the upper jaw was performed, and the tumour was removed with the knife and scissors. The skull was seen to be somewhat thinned. On the third day symptoms of meningitis set in, with repeated rigors. Death took place on the eighth day after operation. Post mortem : a gap in the basilar process of the sphenoid bone was found. Purulent meningitis and abscesses in the lungs. E. V—, set. 22, a small, weakly man, had for two years noticed difficulty of breathing through the nose, which for the last twelve months had been completely stopped up. A large naso-pharyngeal fibroid polypus was made out, extending from the right nasal cavity, behind the velum and up to the cheek. The anterior and posterior walls of the antrum had been absorbed by pressure; the right half of the nose was much swollen. I operated as follows :—An incision was made, which commenced at the glabella, extended down by the side of the nose, and was then continued below, close to the septum nasi; another from the glabella, along the lower edge of the right orbit; a third from the right ala of the nose, parallel with the mouth, extend- ing outwards for an inch and a half. These incisions were carried through the nasal bone and the upper jaw by the key-hole saw ; the sawn portion of bone was then lifted up like a lid; the polypus thus plainly rendered visible was carefully removed with knife and scissors from its attachments, and the detached bone pressed back and kept in position by skin sutures and a com- press. The wound healed hy first intention, and the patient was discharged in seventeen days. Nine months later he was in good health and free from any recurrence. J. D—, set. 27. Previous health good. In 1866, at the battle of Konigs- griitz, he fell off his horse and bled at the nose and mouth. Towards the end of the year he observed some difficulty of breathing, and his comrades complained of his loud snoring at night. Gradually the symptoms increased, and at times he had severe haemorrhage. He had been often advised to sub- mit to operation, but could not bring himself to agree to it. At last the difficulty of breathing became so great that he could only sleep in a sitting position, and was much weakened by loss of blood. The polypus was attached at the upper part and on the right side of the pharynx by a tolerably broad base. It extended into and completely filled up the pharynx, so that it was visible below the soft palate. Since the nasal cavity was too narrow to admit of the use of the dcraseur with any certainty, I performed osteoplastic resec- tion of the nasal process of the upper jaw, and removed the polypus by means of the galvanic wire.