434 OSTEOTOMY OP FEMUR. DISLOCATION OP HIP. to break down the ankylosis, but without success; thereupon, 1 performed subcutaneous osteotomy with the chisel through the troelmnter and neck o£ the femur. The limb was put up in a plaster bandage, and open treatment adopted. Owing to the deformity of the knee, very great difficulty was ex- perienced in arranging the bandages and keeping tho limb in good position. Profuse suppuration ensued, bed-sores formed, the urine became albuminous, and the patient died of exhaustion.1 Constantine W—, set. 18. Por six years the patient had suffered from chronic inflammation of the right hip- and elbow-joints, together with ostitis of the right humerus and left ulna.' Twelve months before admission, all the active symptoms had subsided. When admitted he was fairly nourished and seemed well in health; the right hip-joint was ankylosed at an angle of 90°, and strongly abducted. I attempted to break down the ankylosis, without sucoess, and then divided the bone subcutaneously with the chisel just below the trochanter. Lister’s dressings were applied. An hour after the patient recovered from the anaesthetic he became cyanosed and had an epileptiform fit, which was followed by others at short intervals during the succeeding two or three hours, and he died of pyaemia a week later. Dislocation of the femur after typhus. This condition was noticed in a child, aet. 10. The femur was displaced on to the ilium and could not be reduced, though the limb was moved in all kinds of directions; during the manipulation I felt a fine kind of crepitus, as if the bone were bending. I therefore abstained from further proceedings. The typhus had originated twelve weeks before the patient came up to the hospital. I examined this case repeatedly, and satisfied myself beyond a doubt that dislocation really existed. It is possible, however, that the epiphysis of the head of,the femur was only softened and partially detached, so that the greater part of the neck of the femur remained attached to the shaft. Considerable pain was experienced if deep pressure were exerted over the femur. Gradually an abscess formed on the anterior surface of the thigh which broke, and soon closed up again. The patient eventually was able to walk fairly well, though with a slight limp. With regard to the origin of the condition I can give no explana- tion. Unfortunately, no satisfactory history of the case could be obtained. Probably, when admitted into the hospital some osteo- myelitis was going on in the upper part of the bone. 1 This case has been minutely described by Gussenbauer in the * Arcliiv fur Klin. Chirurg.,’ I3d. xviii, p/404.