Ci OPERATION FOR .NEURALGIA FOLLOWED BY OPTIC ATROPHY. was tried without success. Gradual alleviation of the paroxysms was obtained by the repeated use of morphia injections, and four years later her ■condition was tolerable. The condition of the right eyeball did not alter. K. W , aet. 25. After an attack of typhus, a dull pain persisted over the right half ol the forehead. There were no typical paroxysms, and the man probably had catarrh of the frontal sinuses. The patient had, the year previously, suffered from epileptiform attacks. No operation seemed to me to he indicated in this case, and the patient was discharged unimproved. A. B—, set. 53. Pain had existed for twelve years over the distribution of the second division of the fifth nerve. In May, 1872, subcutaneous discission was performed on the nerve at its exit from the infraorbital canal. Pour months later the pain recurred. In November, 1873,the operation was repeated. He recovered, but recurrence again took place in three months. In March, 1874, the whole nerve was cut out of the canal. The patient wrote, three years later, to the effect that his pain had not altogether disappeared, as he always felt some slight twinges in cold weather; however, his condition was materially improved in comparison to what it had formerly been. In two other cases the same nerve was completely extirpated out of the canal. Recovery followed, but nothing could be heard of the patients on inquiry three years later. In one of these cases sub- cutaneous discission of the nerve at its exit from the canal had been quite unsuccessful in relieving the pain. M. H—, set. 43. Neuralgia had existed on the right side for ten years. A portion of the inferior dental nerve just above the canal was cut out. A few days later severe arterial haemorrhage took place from the wound, which was so formidable, in spite of a tampon, as to necessitate ligature of the right common carotid artery. Three days later the haemorrhage again occurred; a firm tampon of penghawar finally controlled the bleeding. The patient was much exhausted by loss of blood, and recovered but slowly. An abscess subsequently formed behind the angle of the jaw; it was opened, and the bone was found exposed. Three weeks after the operation he had a rigor, and five days later he became completely blind in the right eye. The retinal veins were found to be enormously distended, the arteries were very small, and extravasation was seen in the neighbourhood of the macula. Atrophy of the optic nerve followed later on. Eventually he recovered after the removal of a sequestrum from the bottom of the abscess. Six months later we heard that lie was perfectly strong and had had no further neuralgic attack, but the eye, of course, remained blind.