363 ONYCHOGRYPHOSIS. thick to escape readily, I substituted a large cannula and let out a tumbler full of colloidal matter and numerous melon seed bodies. The cyst was then washed out with lukewarm water, iodine injected, and a bandage applied as in the first case. The puncture during the first few days seemed as though it would heal by first intention, but twelve days after the operation great swelling came on, and as the application of ice did not prevent suppuration, I was forced to make some counter openings. The suppuration was, however, never very great, and after a couple of months the man got well. He came hack to me four years later with a report that he could use the hand well in his occupation, and had no pain. On moving the hand it could be seen that the tendons were in part united to their sheaths. The third finger could not be more than semi-flexed, but this movement was perfect in all the others. He could also extend the fingers almost completely. In tlie case of a young woman in whom very much the same condition of things existed I was forced to make an incision into the swelling before the contents could be evacuated; no iodine was injected. The suppuration lasted over five months, but the ultimate result was much fhe same as in the previous case. So far as I know recovery was permanent. Although the ultimate result in these cases was not bad, yet I must admit that I am rather loth to adopt any operative measures in these large palmar ganglia. The extent and severity of the inflammation of the tendon-sheath can neither be gauged with accuracy beforehand, nor controlled with certainty after it has been excited artificially. My advice is, therefore, to operate only on cases in which the loss of function is so great that it outweighs the possible danger of operation. Onycliogry.phosis. A woman, aet. 20, of strong constitution, was admitted on account of an affection of all the nails of both hands and feet from which she had suffered for three years. The lamellae of the nails were thickened, opaque and looser than natural, and projected over the finger tips like claws. A younger brother of the patient had suffered also from the same affection since his seventeenth year. Nothing of the sort existed in the parents. Minute examination showed that the nail was healthy up to the so-called nail furrow, but half a line beyond this was diseased. The cause of the affection there- foic must have existed in that part of the matrix which lay below the sur- face of the nail. Repeated attempts were made to discover, some fungus but invaiiably without success. All kinds of applications were tided: the nails weie cut away in great part, or scraped down from the upper surface; nothing, however, seemed to do any good, and after three months the patient