429' TREATMENT OF HIP-JOINT DISEASE. should encircle also the pelvis; even then, when the parts about the joint, especially at the back, are very painful, the patients manage to move in the apparatus and raise up the affected half of the pelvis, drawing it over to the sound side. This can only be prevented by including the sound hip also in the bandage, so that the patient cannot move the part at all and is unable to raise himself up, if the bandage reaches up to the crest of the ilium, as it should do. If in florid coxitis the flexion and adduction cannot be corrected by gentle pressure, and traction with the hand under an anaesthetic, it is a sign that ligamentous shortening has already taken place. In such cases it is unadvisable to employ much force; some of the fascia lata, or the adductor muscle may be divided subcutaneously and the deformity thus controlled to some extent, but the contracted ligaments cannot be divided. If much force be employed the articular ends may be forcibly separated and the condition of the part made much worse. In this class of cases permanent extension, with weights of from one to three pounds, according to the age of the child, answers best. Not unfrequently the most surprising improvement will take place in the extension of the limb in a very short time—perhaps within a week. Extension can then be kept up, or if it be thought better a plaster bandage applied. I abstain always from opening any abscesses that form unless I intend to- proceed at once to excision; otherwise, I let them alone until they either become absorbed, as I have often seen happen, or break spontaneously. I usually only employ the mildest external remedies, such as unguentum argent, nitric, or diluted tinct. of iodine. In early hip- joint disease in very fat children, I have at times made issues just behind the trochanter and kept them open for four weeks or so. Striking improvement sometimes takes place in the condition of the hip under this treatment. The actual cautery—the panacea of the older surgeons for hip-joint disease since the time of Hippocrates— I have never employed, and have seen trouble follow where it was- used by others. While at Zurich I excised the hip-joint in six cases, and in four removed part of the acetabulum at the same time. In two of the patients the operation was directly fatal from pyaemia; three died of phthisis some time after excision, one of whom had sufficiently recovered to get about well with the aid of a stick. One case only was alive and well eight years after the operation. As a rule, I am not an enthusiastic supporter of excision of the hip-joint