380 ENOHONDEOMA. CICATRICIAL FIBROMA. A tumour, the size of alien’s egg, which had been growing for eleven years, in a man, ait. 54) was removed from the first phalanx of the right thumb. The cause of origin was the same as that of the previous case ; here, also, the tumour was situated on the sheath of the tendon, and had no connection with the hone. Enchondroma of the phalanx. Fraulein F—, set. 18, came to me on account of a hard nodule, which had been growing for twelve years in the first phalanx of the little finger. The growth was the size of a large hazel nut, painless, and had originated without any known cause. I removed the tumour in the following way :—Having exposed the excrescence I separated it from the bone; the rest of the growth was then scraped away from the medullary cavity of the shaft to one side of which it was connected. About two thirds of the circumference of the phalanx were thus preserved and a hollowed-out cavity left in the bone; the sheaths of the tendons were not injured. The patient rapidly recovered. Two years later I heard that no recurrence had taken place. I adopted similar treatment in a case, some years ago, where the enchondroma also sprang from the first phalanx, and was the size of a large bean; in this case considerable suppuration followed the operation, with inflammation of the sheath of the tendons. The patient recovered with a perfectly normal finger, and no recurrence had taken place four years afterwards. These two cases illustrate, therefore, a rather important point, viz: that, under certain conditions these enchon- dromata are removable without amputation. Beep-seated cicatricial fibroma of the palm of the hand. F. G—, rot. 43, a teacher, had had somo suppuration of the palm of the hand eleven years previously, which healed up without impairing the function of the part. Gradually the cicatrix became hard, thick, and rather sensitive. I removed a very dense fibroma the size of a pigeon’s egg. It was of spherical shape and readily lifted out of the deep parts, as soon as the incision had been made. The hromorrhage was very trifling. The tumour apparently was not connected with any of the nerves. The man soon recovered, and wrote a few months later to say that the hand was perfectly normal, but the sensibility of the middlo finger was impaired.