EMPYEMA (?). EESECTION OP EIBS FOE EMPYEMA. 195 Encysted empyema (large peripleural abscess ?). A man, jet. 22, had some glandular abscesses in the right axilla, after an attack of smallpox; and at the same time, pain in the upper part of the right breast, and severe rigors. The breathing was hut little embarrassed. The abscesses had been opened five months before his admission. On admission there was hut a moderate amount of suppuration, with dulness over the right upper half of the thorax. An extensive incision was made, and the broken down and suppurating gland tissue scraped out; four days later the opening- in the intercostal space was found, and a drainage tube passed in. The suppu- ration then gradually diminished and the patient was discharged three months later at his own wish, with only slight discharge from the sinus. Resection of ribs for empyema. A child, ret. 12, had an attack of pleurisy seven yearn before admission, which ran on to empyema, and broke spontaneously. Three years later the child came under my care. I resected portions of two of the ribs with some benefit, but considerable discharge took place through the opening, and the patient’s condition was only moderately satisfactory. Further resection of the ribs was performed four years later; seven years after the original open- ing the sinus still discharged, though only to a slight degree. Throughout, the patient was very carefully looked after. The child was rather small and weakly, but very intelligent, and had attended school for the last five years. A child, jet. 8. Seven months after the commencement of pleurisy of the left side, spontaneous opening took place ; a year later he was brought to the hospital. Portions of two of the ribs were resected, in order to allow the pus to escape more freely; injections were made into the cavity. Seven months after operation there was still considerable discharge from the sinus. A woman, jet. 28. Six months after the commencement of pleurisy of the left side, spontaneous evacuation occurred. Ten months later she came up in a very reduced condition to the hospital. The fistula was dilated, and the cavity injected; she then went into the country for a time, and improved considerably, hut eleven months later, there was still free discharge through the sinus. A portion of one of the ribs was then resected, and the contents of a cavity, the size of two fists, evacuated. The discharge had not ceased six months afterwards. Partial pneumothorax, occurring after paracentesis. A man, jet. 28. Light weeks after the commencement of a pleurisy of the left side, paracentesis was performed with Dieulafoy’s aspirator, and 300 c.e. of thick, greenish pus let out. When he came under my care, somo little time