431 TREATMENT OP ANKYLOSED HIP. breaking down of the ankylosis was followed by a marked increase in the amount of suppuration ; unluckily, too, an attack of erysipelas further reduced the patient. (Edema about the ankle was observed and the urine was found to contain albumin which was not present when ho was admitted, but I cannot be sure whether it was the result of the increased suppuration, or a sequel of the erysipelas. On my advice the patient was sent away home, as there seemed to be but little prospect of doing him any good—a result which was to me rather unexpected, for the child, on admission, seemed fat and strong. This case has convinced me that it is inadvisable to attempt rapid extension of an ankylosed hip-joint in cases where, although the articular surfaces may be healed, there is still suppuration of the soft part. Former experience has brought me reluctantly to the conclusion that straightening of the limb ought not to be attempted in such cases. The subsequent extension by means of weights can only achieve a perfect result, when the rigid cicatricial adhesions between the articulating surfaces have been separated. Still, I am always in hopes that something more than this may be gained by treatment. In ankylosis of the hip, when the thigh is flexed at a very acute angle, and sinuses exist in connection with the soft parts, excision of the head of the ankylosed femur can have but the effect of an osteotomy, and when we consider that contractions of the fascia:, muscles, and cicatrices about the joint, have existed perhaps for years, the beneficial effects of excision must be doubtful, and the operation may do harm. In the knee-joint the conditions are more favourable, for the malposition of this joint is almost always in one direction, viz. that of flexion, and the slight inflammatory reaction that may possibly follow the breaking down of an ankylosis where sinuses exist is far less dangerous a pro- ceeding and much more easily controlled, than it is in the hip- joint. Tumour Albus or the Hip-joint. In tabulating my cases of this disease I met with two consider- able difficulties. In the first place, disease of the hip-joint in many cases runs such a chronic course, that it was often difficult to say whether the active disease had ceased, and the case ought to be inserted under the head "ankylosis,” or whether the morbid action was still going on. Secondly, there is a form of synovitis which frequently attacks the hip-joint in apparently healthy people between