ELEPHANTIASIS. SYPHILITIC ULCERATION. 365 Elephantiasis of the arm. (Chronic indurated oedema.') A strong young man, set. 23, was admitted with this affection. When about 12 years old he suffered from chronic ophthalmia and suppurating glands in the neck. Then he had some suppuration about the right forearm, which was a long time in healing. Some swelling and thickening was left about the forearm, which never completely disappeared. It did not occasion him any serious inconvenience or hinder him from working. From time to time, however, without any obvious cause, he had attacks of erysipelas, which usually extended up to the shoulder. He got well in a few days, but after eveiy such attack the arm increased in size. He was suffering from one of these erysipelatous attacks on admission. By suspending the limb and careful bandaging, the size of the arm was materially diminished, but the improvement did not last long, and after a time the patient left the hospital unimproved. Such a condition is rare in the arm; probably the subcutaneous lymphatic channels had been destroyed by the old suppuration, and as no new channels could be formed, and the old ones were insufficient to supply their loss by collateral dilatation, the chronic, indurated oedema was set up. The veins in the affected arm were not dilated. Syphilitic ulceration of the arm. A woman, set. 40, came under my care who had suffered from syphilitic symptoms for about twelve years. About twelve years previously ulceration began on the forehead, scalp, integuments of the breast, and over the right hand and arm. She had been frequently under treatment with iodide of potassium, but I could not discover whether she had had a mercurial course. When admitted the ulceration—save on the arm and the dorsal surface of the hand—was for the most part healed, but in these parts it appeared to have progressed unchecked. On the dorsum of the hand the tissues were so deeply destroyed that the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones and their articu- lations were completely exposed. From the depth of the ulceration around it was evident that total gangrene of the fingers must inevitably ensue. Above the middle of the forearm there was no actual ulceration. At the patient’s express wish amputation was performed here, but she died of pyeemia. Excepting a cicatrix of the liver the internal organs were found to be free from syphilitic disease. Gangrene of the fingers. , act. 56, a labourer, strongly built, but very unintellectual,