RETRO - PE RITONIT1S AFTER LITHOTOMY. 277 mischief is always attributed to urinary infiltration. I rather doubt the accuracy of this view. In those who have died after lithotomy, low (jauchig-eitrig) phlegmonous inflammation will be found extend- ing from the wound along the retro-peritoneal tissues. The same form of retro-peritonitis is seen after removal of the rectum, where, at any rate, the urine is not concerned. The real explanation of the condition in this as in nearly all other forms of phlegmonous inflammation, is to be found in the retention and decomposition of the secretions of the wound. If the cellular tissue be loose, as in old people, the inflammation will spread all the more rapidly. The tough, fatty tissue in children is most capable of resisting the pro- cess. Experiments prove beyond doubt that very little ammoniacal urine is sufficient to set up rapid decomposition of the secretions of the wound ; the most dangerous condition therefore, is when such urine cannot be kept from contact with the wound. When the urine has its normal acidity, it is first rendered alkaline by the decomposed secretions of the wound. Experiments show again that this change can rapidly be brought about (see the section in my work c Coccobacteria Septica1 on Experiments on Infection and Transplantation). The disinfection of the urine, by which expression I here mean the cessation of its ammoniacal fermentation, cannot always be effected, as I have already mentioned. In such cases therefore, it might be right to apply an occlusion dressing. A catheter passed in through the urethra, and tied into the bladder, together with drainage tubes in the wound may also be desir- able. The bladder, as also the wound, can then be washed out frequently through the drainage tubes. When the urine is of normal acidity, there seems to me to be no objection to passing several drainage tubes deeply into the wound, and then applying a Lister's occlusion dressing. A Nekton’s catheter should be kept in the bladder so that the urine may flow off constantly for the first three or four days, until the edges of the wound are covered with plastic effusion and there is no more danger of their being infiltrated with the secretion. I he period of healing will thus be much shortened, even though it should not always take place by first intention. I have not lately had an opportunity ol trying this method. I should have the more confidence in it since watching the progress of a case in which I had removed a myoma of the bladder1 by incisions made as for 1 This case will be found in the ‘Arch, fur Klin. Chir.,’ Bd. xviii, p. 4ir.