PREPARATORY TREATMENT 496 the intestinal contents or, at the least, to empty the gastric contents quickly and completely into the duodenum. Our second case showed distinctly that nutrition is gravely interfered with when the stomach is greatly dilated, from the insufficiency of its muscular power. We may hope that further observations will show that when proper precautions are taken, dilatation of the stomach does not absolutely contra-indicate removal of the pylorus, for the condition will seldom be absent in pyloric stenosis. If examination under an anaesthetic, etc., have not enabled us to make out with certainty the extent of the cancer, we can always resort to an exploratory incision as a simple and usually safe help to the diagnosis. If it be decided to operate, particular attention should be paid beforehand to the kind of food that the patient tolerates best. Our first patient took nothing but sour milk before the operation, and for two weeks after it the same food was found best and most agreeable for her. Further, for several days previously, and again two hours before the operation, the stomach must be thoroughly washed out with tepid water. This process is perhaps the most disagreeable part of all the preparatory treatment for the patients, but they soon become accustomed to it if only the oesophagus tube is introduced often enough. Finally, the precautions necessary for laparotomies generally must be observed, such as emptying the bowels, clothing the extremities with warm flannel, raising the temperature of the room to 20° C., etc. Details of the operation.—(i.) An incision should be made through the abdominal walls over the situation of the tumour. If the cancerous pylorus has sunk down particularly low, it should be raised up before the incision is made. The lines a, b, Fig. 27 show the incisions adopted in our cases. They were from four to five inches in extent. A transverse incision was, on many grounds, found more convenient than a vertical one, as practised by Fean and Evdygier. All bleeding having been stopped, the peritoneum should be opened and the extent and nature of the adhesions to the surround- ing parts (transverse colon and pancreas, etc.) made out. If the cancer should be adherent to the pancreas, Billroth advises,at present, that the operation should not be further proceeded with. Complete removal would render it necessary to place a ligature on some part of the pancreas. This appears undesirable on two grounds; first, we know that after ligature of the parotid great swelling and numerous