223 OPERATIVE TREATMENT. wounds, though at first they seemed small, were found to be very extensive after the separation of the eschar, and were frequently highly sensitive to the pressure of the bandage; moreover, they took a long time to heal. In one woman the cicatrix was thickened and sensitive three years after operation. On the whole, I cannot recommend these methods. Operation, and Recurrence at the Seat or Operation.1 Amputation of the breast is, in general, not so very dangerous an operation, even when all the axillary glands that can be got at are removed. Of forty-six operations at Zurich, performed on thirty- eight individuals, seven died of erysipelas and pyaemia. This average is unfavourable, but would probably improve with a larger number of cases. In many instances, I was forced to expose the axillary vein or to ligature that vessel. Several times I have removed supra- clavicular glands. Formerly in some instances where there were small nodules, I used to practice partial excision of the gland, but lately I have given this up for the following reasons :—Whenever recur- rence took place about the cicatrix, it started from the part of the gland which had been left; lately, therefore, I have always removed the entire mamma—or at least thought I did so; one is easily de- ceived on this point. It is exceedingly difficult to remove the entire mamma, since one cannot always know where it ceases. The glandular connective tissue generally loses itself in the fatty tissue, passing from the periphery of the gland to the centre, as it does also in every separate lobule. In an ordinary, not very extensive, operation for removal of the breast, a circle of glandular lobules nearly always remains behind in the fat. At the time of operation the structures can be neither seen nor felt; it is only by microsco- pical examination, and in properly prepared specimens that little acini can be detected embedded in the fat. Although, therefore, it may be our intention to extirpate the breast, we seldom remove it entirely and thus local recurrence frequently takes place. No surgeon of experience would gainsay the assertion that it is but seldom possible to completely extirpate all the lymphatic glands. Naturally we do not remove that which does not appear diseased to the sight or touch. Often and often a gland is left behind, in which some germ 1 ‘ Zurich. Bcviclit,’ i860—1867.