247 OASES OF FiECAL FISTULA. as well as an intestinal fistula, although during a period of three months not a drop of urine had passed through the fistula. This, therefore, had been a case where the hernia was vesical as well as intestinal, and where a portion of the bladder and intestine had become gangrenous from the strangulation. The patient became gradually weaker and died five months after the opera- tion. Post mortem: a well-marked stricture was found in the small intes- tine, at the point where the fistula existed. The process of the bladder protrading from the side, like a diverticulum, opened close to the intestinal fistula. This process was closed by a valvular fold of mucous membrane. Fcecal fistula. Martin W—, set. 65. Two years before he came under my care, the patient had allowed a ‘rupture cutter’ (Bruchschneider), whose name he would not reveal, and who was not a qualified man, to perform a radical operation for a large scrotal hernia of the left side. According to the patient’s account, the entire hernial sac, together with the scrotum and testis (the left testis was absent), was encircled by a ligature, cauterised, and allowed to slough off. The patient survived this proceeding, hut afterwards a tumour bulged for- ward in the wound; this the operator pronounced to be an abscess, and opened it; however, no pus came, but gas and thin faecal fluid escaped. The wound healed, hut the fistula persisted, though there was hut slight discharge from it. When he came under me two years later I found an enormous hernia on the left side, partly inguinal and partly ventral. The bowels acted regularly, and very little discharge took place from the fistula. A suitable bandage was applied, and the fistula healed up in five weeks. Carl W—, art. 28, stated that fourteen years before admission a swelling formed in the right iliac region; it broke spontaneously, and pus and faeces escaped. The opening thus left contracted at times, and then again enlarged. For two years it had closed up altogether but broke open again ten years before his admission, as he was lifting a heavy weight. Suppuration about the abdominal walls followed, leaving numerous sinuses; these latter had been laid open, but no operation had been undertaken, or attempt made to cure the fajcal fistula. For five years the patient had worn a linen plug and a firm compress on the opening, which had closed it very effectually. I found an opening in the abdominal walls close to the caecum, about an inch and a half in length and three quarters of an inch in breath. This I closed by turning down a flap from above, applying the epidermal surface to the mucous membrane of the intestine. The central portion of the flap healed, so that the fistula was bridged over. Unluckily the patient would not submit to any further operative proceeding, and left incompletely cured. I have no doubt that I should have succeeded ultimately in closing the fistula. Katherine W—, art. 39. In this case an unbilical hernia had formed at the patient’s first confinement, sixteen years previously; during subsequent preg- nancies it increased in size, and became irreducible. During her eleventh