PROGNOSIS OP SPINAL CARIES. 182 p. 35^)> deduced from the record of 694 cases, shows in an interest- ing way the most common form of kyphosis. As regards the chance of recovery from spinal caries, what can I say ? I have adopted a position of complete resignation, the more that I have come to the conclusion that my records are too favourable ; it was not often possible to keep little children, from one to three years old, under continual observation, and it is just at this period of life that the mortality among children is most considerable. I may add, that from my experience of caries, a con- genital predisposition seems to be by far the most common source of the disease. In patients thus predisposed, some accidental cause of irritation sets up active disease, although the latter may often occur without any possibility of proving any such cause of origin. Children with spinal caries require to be most carefully kept from all other sources of injury, and placed under generally favourable hygienic and dietetic conditions; such conditions demand the constant attention of some grown person and favourable social circumstances. Even when the opportunity offers of treating these children for a long period of time, and when all these conditions were fulfilled in the best possible way by the constant and watchful care of a mother, how seldom are the efforts of the surgeon crowned with success. As an example of many similar cases, I adduce the following : A girl, aet. 8, wlio had previously been in good health and well nourished had a small, cold abscess over the left sixth rib. My advice was, to wait for the spontaneous opening of the abscess, which took place about six months afterwards ; in two months the abscess had healed without any medical treat- ment, and the general condition of the child was unaffected. A year later all the symptoms of disease of the cervical vertebrae made their appearance. The child was most carefully tended; for about a year she was kept com- pletely at rest, then an apparatus to fix the head was provided, which was worn for about three years. During this time the patient lived during the summer at Hall and Ischl, during the winter at Mentone and Meran. A retro-pharyngeal abscess formed and was allowed to open spontaneously, as also another abscess at the back of the neck. A small sequestrum came away from the opening in the neck, and the sinus eventually healed completely. All the pain disappeared; the cervical curvature was scarcely noticeable, hut there was no movement in the upper cervical vertebrae. The child seemed in excellent health; she became fat and strong, spent all the summer in the mountains, and was always tended with the greatest care. Any surgeon would have set down the case as one that had completely recovered, but this lasted scarcely three years; then the mother noticed that the child held