EXTIRPATION OF CASEOUS GLANDS. 147 I may further remark, that in extirpating glands, together with the parts immediately around them, behind the border of the lower jaw, a branch of the facial nerve, lying deep in front of the internal maxillary artery, may be met with and divided. This branch supplies the muscles of the lower lip up to the red edge; if the nerve be cut through the lip curls inwards, and cannot be turned out, as for instance, in laughing or smiling. At first this state of things occasions a good deal of disfigurement, but after a time the condition improves: in some cases it entirely disappears. I am unable to say whether this latter result always takes place, but from my experience of the results after division of other small branches of the facial nerve, I think it is highly probable. If these operations be performed carefully and without much injury to the surrounding parts, if the haemorrhage be completely controlled, the wound drained, and well-applied pressure made, the whole part may heal up by first intention. If the glands have been completely removed the patients are, in many instances, entirely relieved of their trouble in a week or two. Good results like this are not so very uncommon, and are highly satisfactory when contrasted with the ordinary methods of treatment. It may of course happen that portions of the capsules of the glands or of the caseous deposits may escape notice or be purposely left behind, for fear of going too far; under such circumstances certainly sinuses will be left, which may suppurate for a long time, and require subsequently to be treated by the ordinary means. Unfortunately, too, many cases occur in which other glands subsequently become affected, and fresh operation may be necessary, if the patient be not in a hectic state. Finally, there are cases in which on one or both sides hard caseous glands extend from the ear to the clavicle; unless such patients are of very strong constitution, which is very seldom the case, the magnitude of the operation may preclude the idea of any surgical interference. In spite of all this I can only—speaking generally—advise extirpation of the cervical lymphatic glands, inasmuch as our other means of treating these diseases are, as has been already said, far too in- effective. | Of ninety-four cases operated on, I lost three; one from secondary haemorrhage, one from erysipelas, and one from pyaemia. Of nine patients, in whom parenchymatous injections had been employed with different kinds of fluid during considerable periods, two died of erysipelas. In dealing with small statistics, accidental causes