BADLY UNITED FRACTURES. 345> this position be adopted the patients are forced to keep their beds- it is of the greatest importance to renew the bandage at the latest after ten or fourteen days. Slight dislocations may then be cor- rected by pressure with the lingers or by movement of the joint, which at a later stage will not be so easily done. After four or five weeks passive movement of the joint may be cautiously com- menced under chloroform. It is a great drawback that we are unable to make out the exact nature of all these fractures, on account of the extravasation in the joint, and are thus debarred from giving a clear prognosis as to the ultimate utility of the limb. I think I may state from my experience that the cases did better, and that the joint was ultimately more useful, where a plaster band- age was at once applied than where no apparatus except a Mitella was employed. Badly united Fractures. Six cases of fracture into the elbow-joint were admitted, in which fragments of the external or internal condyle had united with the lower end of the humerus in such a way that the function of the joint was impaired. In many of these cases subluxation or luxation of the radius had taken place. As a rule the results of treatment are unsatisfactory; in one instance only was complete mobility obtained. In some of these patients the power of flexion and extension, and in others pronation and supination were destroyed. In a boy, set. 14, who was admitted with a fracture of the condyle of three weeks’ date, the limb was forcibly extended, and put up in plaster. A fort- night later passive movement was again employed. Within two weeks he had some movement in the part, and he ultimately recovered the full use of the limb. I11 the case of a child, who had fractured her external condyle, and dislo- cated the radius four months previously, and who was admitted with the arm ankylosed at an obtuse angle, resection was performed. She recovered, but the ami became ankylosed at a light angle and remained so in spite of many attempts to obtain some movement. l'rom these cases it may be gathered that the movement of the elbow-joint, after fracture of the ends of the bones forming the-