316 TREATMENT OF STUMP. always placing a ligature round the uterus, close above the portio vaginalis, and then removing the mass of the tumour, together with its hypertrophied capsule of uterine tissue, close above the ligature. If no adhesions be met with, the operation can be performed as cleanly as in a simple ovariotomy, nor need a single drop of blood escape into the abdominal cavity. Now comes the question of how and with what we are to encircle the uterus below, and how we are to deal with the stump. These seem to me most important technical questions, on whose final decision the future fate of the operation will materially depend. Hitherto I have abstained from allowing the stump to sink back into the peritoneal cavity. Under some conditions we might, perhaps, succeed in controlling the haemorrhage by securing the numerous vessels, and the stump might then be dropped back without any danger of haemorrhage following. One or more drainage tubes might be passed through the vagina, behind the cut surface, which ordinarily is turned upwards towards the promontory, so as to allow the secretions, which in all these cases are tolerably abundant, to drain off. Many things have hitherto prevented me from adopting this method, especially the thought of the danger that might arise from unchecked bleeding from the stump. One could hardly prevent this, without ligaturing the stump en masse, which in such a case could scarcely be done without causing sloughing, and possibly putrescence. Again, there is a source of danger in that, the vessels behind the uterus at the lower part might be so dilated that there would be a risk of punc- turing them in passing the drainage tubes through the vagina. Finally, I must declare my jjreference for the extra-peritoneal treat- ment of the pedicle, a preference which I have derived from my ovariotomies. Although, therefore, I discountenance the other method, I would not deny its possible advantages. Plan's loop for encircling the uterus, I do not like; I could never succeed in obtaining any wire which did not break on being drawn tight and twisted. After many attempts to modify the apparatus, I discarded it altogether. I then employed a special kind of clamp, something like that used for the treatment of very thick pedicles in ovariotomy. This instrument, however, drew up the stump of the uterus so much, and pressed at the same time to such an extent on the abdominal walls, that I soon gave it up. I next had an dcraseur made, with a particularly long and strong chain. The