60 NEURALGIA OF FIFTH NERVE—REPEATED OPERATIONS. had to be increased, until not less that two scruples daily were necessary to keep him free from pain. As a result, he had repeatedly symptoms of morphia- intoxication such as Nussbaum has described, and which that authority attributes to the direct passage of the morphia into the blood. The patient earnestly begged for an operation. On the advice of Professor Griesinger, however, we first tried local bloodletting, which had not previously been employed; four leeches were applied. Not the slightest improvement followed; on the contrary, the parts in the neighbourhood of the leech-bites became inflamed, and more morphia than ever had to be administered. No particularly painful spots could be discovered, except that in certain points in the toothless left upper jaw pressure caused rather more pain than elsewhere. Pressure, however, did not produce an attack. Under the circumstances I should have preferred subcutaneous section of the infraorbital nerve at its exit from the jaw; the patient, however, so urgently entreated that the most radical operation possible might be performed, that I extirpated the portion of nerve lying in the infraorbital canal, in the usual way. The portion removed measured three quarters of an inch; neither with the naked eye nor with the microscope could anything morbid be discovered in it. For a few days only after this operation did the patient remain free from pain; the old troubles then recommenced, though it is true that they were less frequent and less severe. Touching, or stretching of the angle of the mouth, touching or pressure on the ramus of the upper jaw now excited the spasmodic attacks; the dragging pains extended backwards to the palate, thence into the pterygo-palatine fossa and the temporal region; curiously enough, the distri- bution of the infraorbital nerve remained free from pain. The attacks shortly became more severe, and it was found necessary to revert to the anodyne injections ; these had a magical effect, but had to be repeated often during the day. Further minute examination convinced me (i) that the affection was only in the course of the second division of the fifth nerve; and (2) that the pain was always reflex and originated in peripheral excitation. The remark- ably prompt effect of the local narcotic injections on the peripheral branches seemed to me to confirm the hypothesis of some peripheral affection. With this idea, I conceived that I might benefit the patient by severing the •second division of the fifth nerve at the foramen rotundum, and dissecting away such adjoining branches as could be reached. Such a proceeding appeared to me possible enough with the aid of v. Langenbeck’s osteoplastic resection of the superior maxilla. At the time I thought that I was the first to develop this bold idea in a methodical manner, but found that Carnochan and Nussbaum had already performed such operations with success. Following Professor Griesinger’s advice, however, I removed (on the 12th May, 1864) with bone forceps and gouge, the alveolar portion of the upper jaw which was painful on pressure. I could not well anaesthetise the patient, as it was necessary for me to know what portions of the jaw were painful. In two places I came upon uuobliterated alveoli filled up with granulation tissue, the touching of which straightway occasioned the paroxysms of pain; these granulations and the parts in their neighbourhood were