196 ANEURISM OP THYROID AXIS — OP AORTA. later, I let out 2700 c.c. of thick pus, by means of my paracentesis trocar, without allowing any air to enter. The next da}' it was noticed that each systole of the heart was accompanied by a distinct, metallic sound. There was no proof of the existence of any air in the pericardial region, but slight pneumothorax was evident, close to the heart; the respirations had a distinct metallic sound, and at times rales were heard. For four weeks he went on well, and was completely free from feverish symptoms. While recovering from an attack of facial erysipelas, the dyspnoea increased so much that I had to tap the thorax again. Aneurism of the right thyroid axis, originating without known cause in an otherwise strong man. A year and a half after the commencement of the disease, the patient received a kick from a horse on the aneurism ; great swelling resulted, and when he came up two months later to the hospital, the tumour was the size of a fcetal head. The exact part implicated could not then be made out. I suspected at the time that the tumour was connected with the subclavian artery originally, and that the aneurism had become diffused, owing to the blow. Compression, by means of bags of shot, and the application of ice did no good ; the swelling rapidly assumed such foimidable proportions, and the patient became so anaemic, that I was unwilling to attempt to ligature the innominate artery. The aneurism did not actually burst, but increased to such a size that it appeared as if all the blood in his body must have been contained in the sac, and he gradually died of haemorrhage into the aneurism. Post mortem : the subclavian artery was found intact, but an opening existed in the thyroid axis, just where it branches off from the main vessel. The case was therefore one of .false aneurism from the very com- mencement. I rather suspected that the patient deliberately gave a false account of his symptoms, in order to conceal the fact that he had received an injury from some one. Aneurism of the descending aorta, bursting into the oesophagus. H. E—, set. 50. The patient, who was of a small and weakly frame, had fallen from a tree a month previously, and from that time felt occasionally pain in the left side. For nine months he had suffered from bronchitis, but with this exception had had no previous illness. A few days after the fall, severe burning pains were felt in the neighbourhood of the lower ribs, accom- panied by constipation, loss of appetite, and irritating cough. On examina- tion, the lungs were found to be healthy. Two days before admission, the patient fell into a deep fainting lit, from which he but slowly recovered. The physician who was called to attend him, discovered a soft, prominent, strongly pulsating tumour between the left scapula and the spinous processes,