126 OASES OF SIMPLE TUMOUES OF NECK. Cavernous llood tumour. A tumour of this nature, the size of a large chestnut, was found in the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The patient was fourteen years old, and the tumour had existed for four years. The growth was removed and recovery followed. Four large veins required ligature. Cavernous lymph tumour. J• P—, set. 23, had noticed three yearn previously a swelling beneath the chin ; this gradually increased without giving any pain, and on admission was the size of a hen’s egg. A cystic growth was diagnosed. On cutting down, I came upon a thin-walled cyst; this was opened, and a little clear yellow serum escaped. Behind this lay another small cyst, which was readily emptied by pressure. I now came down upon some cavernous tissue, from which all the fluid soon ran out. The growth then so collapsed that much difficulty was experienced in removing it. The tissue, on the most careful examination, seemed in no way to differ from that of a cavernous blood cyst. Varix lymphaticus. A man, cot. 36, had had for many years a distinctly fluctuating tumour, the size of a hen’s egg, in the posterior triangle of the neck. Some serous fluid was drawn off, containing only a few colourless blood-cells. Some iodine and water was injected, and the cyst shortly after shrank up com- pletely. Congenital cyst. F. M—, art. seven months, was stated by the surgeon who had attended him to have been born with a tumour, the size of an ostrich’s egg, on the left side of his neck. Distinct fluctuation was evident in the swelling, which was very translucent. When two days old the cyst had been punctured, and a thin, yellow, serous fluid was let out. The skin over the tumour collapsed, together with the sac of the cyst, so as to form a wrinkled mass. Two months after- wards the cyst had again filled up to the size of an apple ; it then shrank up again to the size of a walnut, although nothing was done to it. Six days before admission the tumour had again begun to grow,-and the skin over- lying it had become swollen and red. The patient was feverish. Suppura- tion was suspected, and’ some pus was let out through a puncture. As this treatment obviously could not have effected a cure, I laid open the anterior wall of the cyst. On introducing the finger I found several septa in the cavity ; I broke through these without causing any bleeding, and could then pass my finger right back to the anterior surface of the vertebral column. Remarkably slight reaction followed this operation, and in a month the -cavity had completely closed up.