155 CASE OF MEDULLARY LYMPHOMA. gastric nerve was found to pass right through the middle of the tumour, and a portion of the nerve, one inch in length, was inadvertently cut away. The internal jugular vein was wounded and the carotid artery laid hare for a considerable distance. The patient was discharged in six weeks with the wound almost healed. By means of the laryngoscope paralysis of the right vocal cord was detected. Two months later the patient came back to the hospital with a recurrence of the growth, which had again reached the size of a foetal head, and become ulcerated. No operation was possible and the patient died shortly afterwards of haemorrhage. The disease had lasted alto- gether seventeen months. The patient had in early youth suffered from glandular swellings, which had in great measure disappeared before the new growth originated. Medullary lymphoma may occur at any age, and seems to be rather more common in men than women. I have seen a morbid growth of this nature in a child one year old, and quite recently a case where a man, sixty years of age, had a similar tumour in the axillary glands. Whether permanent cure may follow from early and com- plete removal of these tumours must for the present be undecided. From the examinations I have made it is clear to me that not only the capsules of the glands, but the adjacent cellular tissue also, become infiltrated by a small-celled growth and converted into lymphoma. According to this view, complete extirpation would only he possible if a portion of the apparently healthy tissue immediately around was removed together with the tumour, which in the neck is not practicable. Many of the recurrences are cer- tainly local, i.e. glands which at the time of operation had not become affected and are left, become subsequently the seats of fresh morbid growth. Medullary lymphoma. • Frau P—, set. 36, was a well-nourished, healthy-looking woman, whose previous health had been good. About two years before I saw her she suffered from a painful carious tooth on the right side of the lower jaw. In consequence of this, swelling of the lymphatic glands below the edge of the jaw occurred. At first the swelling increased veiy slowly, but after a few months more rapidly, occasionally causing some pain. When she came to me, the tumour was the size of a goose-egg, immovably connected to the hone, and extending but little into the mouth ; the tonsils were not affected. The whole of the right half of the lower jaw was removed; the condyle and the coronokl process were left. The tumour was very carefully extirpated, so that no visible trace of it remained. Unfortunately very rapid recurrence took place, and she died two months after the operation. ’» 37» a brewer, had noticed, for six months, some swelling partly