383 OASES OF SARCOMA. degenerated to sarcomatous nodules. Tho disease altogether lasted four years and five months. Lymphosarcoma treated hy injection of albuminate of mercury. A boy, set. 13, with a lympho-sarcoma, the size of an orange, in his axilla, was treated by paiyenchymatous injection of albuminate of mercury. Abscesses formed, and in the course of a month the tumour was distinctly smaller, though it had not altogether disappeared. Granulation sarcoma of the upper arm. Jacob Gr—, set. 48, was admitted in November, 1869. A year previously he had accidentally noticed a painless nodule about the size of a large pea, which gradually increased, and was removed after two months by Professor von Dumreicher. Within two weeks the tumour recurred, and gradually attained the size of a hen’s egg; it was then, again removed. Six weeks after this last operation he came under my care. The growth was then the size of a large foetal head, firm, nodulated, painful, ulcerated at several points and bleeding very readily when touched. It encircled the whole upper half of the left arm, and was immovably connected with the bone ; the glands were not afEected. The patient’s general condition was so bad that amputation at the shoulder-joint was out of the question, and the patient was discharged as incurable. He died about a year after, so that the disease altogether lasted about fifteen months. According to the report of Dr. Albert, assistant in von Dumreicher’s Clinic, the original tumour was situated in the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue, and recurrence took place in the cicatrix of operation. No difficulty was found in removing the growth on either occasion, and as far as could be felt and seen, the whole of it was extirpated. The case well illustrates the extraordinary rapidity with which many sarcomatous tumours recur after operation. It is of rare occurrence for a recurrent tumour within six weeks to attain double the size of a foetal head. During the ten months preceding operation, the growth had only reached the size of a goose-egg, while after an operation—to all appearance radical—it grew within two weeks to the size of a hen's egg, and after a second similar operation, to twice the size of a foetal head.