483 CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOURS. new-formed striped muscular fibre in tumours of the testis,1 and once in a sarcoma of the mamma.3 Neither in Zurich nor in Vienna have I met with tumours whose origin from muscular bundles I could establish histologically; in all the cases it wTas just as possible that the growth originated in the connective tissue of the muscles. The myo-fibromata of the uterus start undoubtedly in the smooth muscular fibre and investing connective tissue of this organ. The uterine glands are not included in these growths, and have no connection with them. Myo-fibromata of the prostate gland, although related histogenetically to the corresponding tumours of the uterus, nearly always include, so far as my investigations have reached, some portion of the epithelial glandular elements. How- ever slightly we value the alteration of these epithelial elements (dilatation, enlargement, and increase of the epithelium and for- mation of retention cysts) and their influence on the histological character of the general mass of the tumours, these glandular elements still belong as essentially to the tumours as the included glandular elements do to fibroma and sarcoma of the mamma. On histogenetic grounds we should be justified perhaps in dis- sociating these tumours which originate in connective tissue from any further relationship with the glands, and allowing the expres- sions “ adeno-fibroma” and “adeno-sarcoma” to drop; on clinical grounds this change is not, at present, generally adopted. By changing over into other groups tumours which have not started from the epithelium, but which lie in the integuments and glands, we should simply augment the class of connective-tissue growths, and diminish that of the glandular tumours. In the case of sarcomata, which in some measure agree with carcinomata, I have always kept as minute records as possible, for these tumours have been of special interest to me on account of the difficulty usually experienced with respect to their prognosis. I am able to make some statements as to their origin at the different periods of life. A. von A\ iniwarter has shown the proportions very clearly by means of charts, and has adjusted the inequalities of the sum total by always taking a hundred as the whole number, and calculating ’ Deutsche Alin,, 1855, No. 7 ; and Virchow’s ‘ Arcliiv,’ Bd. viii. Untersuchungen iiber Brustdriisengescliwulstc‘Virchow’s Archiv,’ 13d. xviii.