448 RECURRENT NEURO-FIBROMA. fortunately I was able to dissect them away from the growth, so that there was no loss of function after the operation. For the first few weeks he had intense pain in the part, nor did this entirely disappear until the nerve was completely covered in by granulations. When discharged there was no trace of recurrence ; he could walk fairly well, and had but little pain in the cica- trix. He died, three months after leaving the hospital, of dropsy and marasmus. A point of remarkable interest in this case is that, although the bundles of nerves, after they had been separated by the finger from the tumour, lay perfectly free, like telegraph wires, across the wound, still their conducting power was perfect. In extirpating large masses of glands from the axilla I have observed the same thing. Neuro-fibroma ; repeated recurrence. M. W—-, a tailoress, set. 25, came under my care for a tumour, the size of a walnut, situated in the calf of the leg. The growth was exceedingly painful, the slightest touch being sufficient to cause intolerable suffering; the pain also frequently occurred spontaneously. Subcutaneous injections alone gave her temporary relief. I removed the tumour, together with a portion of the 1ST. suralis magnus which enveloped it. The growth recurred in connection with the ends of the cut nerve and was removed on four separate occasions, on the last of which I was only able with great difficulty to avoid opening the knee-joint. The growth again recurred; it beoame united to the cica- trices of the former operations and to the skin, the parts ulcerated, and the pain was so severe that the thigh was amputated through the lower third. She recovered from this, and a year later there had been no recurrence of the pain. I repeatedly examined the growth fresh, as well as the specimens prepared in spirit; it appeared to me to be a simple fibroma, which probably had originated in the neurilemma of the sural nerve, and recurred in connection with the nerve stumps and the surrounding cellular tissue. I have nowhere found any drawings which would justify us histologically iu considering these tumours as true neuromata, with perhaps the new formation of non-medul- lated fibres, in the sense in which Virchow has extended the signification of neuroma. I cannot ignore the fact that in similar tumours I have been unable to make such a positive distinction between bundles of non-medullated nerve fibres and bundles of fine connectivo-tissue fibres, that I was thereby enabled to diagnose an “ amyelinic neuroma.”