HYPERTROPHY OE MAMMiE. 209 Enormous hypertrophy of both mammae. A. E—, a servant girl, set. 22, strongly built, and well-nourished, had Always bad good health as a child. The menses began when she was fifteen .and had always been regular. When nineteen years old, she noticed a marked enlargement of both breasts ; these gradually increased in size, without occa- sioning her any pain or material inconvenience. When admitted, she was found to be in about the fifth month of pregnancy, and the breasts had increased to such a prodigious size that she was quite unable to do any work. The mammae reached down to the umbilicus, and were of immense thickness ; the circumference of the left breast, at the base, measured sixty-five centi- metres, and that of the right, sixty-eight; from the upper border to the lower, in a line with the nipple, the left measured sixty-three centimetres and the right sixty-seven; the greatest circumference of the left breast was eighty- two, and of the right eighty-four. The skin over the breasts was thickened, hut not veiy intimately united with the glandular tissue. The subcutaneous venous plexuses showed extensively through the skin. The mass of the gland felt tough; in both breasts there were bosses of greater or less size not very distinctly differentiated. The breasts occasioned her no pain, but their weight was so great that she was forced constantly to keep her bed. The idea of operation could hardly be entertained, when the enormous extent of the growth was considered, especially in the woman’s condition. A compressive bandage was therefore applied daily; after a few days the right breast appeared to become somewhat softer. The pressure of the bandage had caused a slight excoriation of the skin, and she was attacked with severe erysipelas, commencing at that spot. The next day she aborted, became rapidly collapsed, and died in twenty-four hours. On examination of the glands it was found that the hypertrophy did not consist of a pure hyperplasia, such as is commonly supposed to exist in these cases; but the enlargement was due to a number of fibromata of different sizes, some hard, some soft, enclosing glandular acini, the ducts of which—as usual in these tumours— were widened out into branching spaces. The cross section of the mamma resembled that of a uterus, studded with numerous fibromata, but the tumours were softer and contained more juice than ordinary uterine fibrous growths. I may refer to my work on diseases of the breast (f von Pith a and Billroth s Chirurg./ Band 3, Abth. ii, p. 85) for a case of immense lipoma, situated behind the right mamma. The case was diagnosed as hypertrophy of the breast, for the tumour had pushed forward the gland to such an extent that the nipple was situated at the lowest part of the tumour, into which the entire gland seemed to have disappeared. 14