174 EFFECTS OF IODINE INJECTIONS ON BRONCIIOOELES. the result of irregular circulation, occur in most encapsuled goitrous growths. Extravasations of blood are frequent, portions may break down into a softened, colloid tissue, or become necrosed (yellow infarcts), while central cicatricial contraction is very common. Sometimes the growth calcifies; at other times all the blood-vessels passing into the bronchocele through the capsule become oblite- rated, and so the entire contents of the capsule degenerate into a pulpy, sebaceous-like matter; the original tissue of the bronchocele and the colloid substance of the gland vesicles cannot be absorbed . by themselves. When united with iodine, however, they are absorbable. With our present knowledge of chemistry it ought not to be impossible to analyse these processes. After the absorp- tion of the colloid substance, the tissue shrinks up into a cicatricial- like mass; the tissue of the bronchocele does not entirely disappear, like that of a lymphoma after the use of Eowler’s solution, but a hard cicatrix remains where the substance of the bronchocele formerly existed. Even after the most successful cures of goitre by injection, these cicatrices do not entirely disappear. If a bron- chocele consists of cicatricial tissue ill supplied with blood, non- vascular infarcts and pulpy substance, the iodine will have a very slight and very slow effect in causing its absorption and may have none. The most brilliant results were invariably observed in bronchoceles that had either recently originated or were rapidly growing. It would be very desirable for those who have oppor- tunities, to watch these individuals for a long period of time after the employment of this plan of treatment; we might then learn whether recovery is permanent, or how often the injections must be repeated in order to destroy the tendency to goitre. I cannot too highly recommend the works of Liicke, Ivocher, Hose and others, for those who wish to study the subject of bronchoceles. Notwith- standing all the labour that has been expended on the etiology of this disease, much remains unexplained; next to the undoubted endemic influences, a purely individual disposition plays some undetermined part in its causation. Thus, I know of a family, living in a district where goitre is common, and in whom two children out of four had no trace of goitre; one of these was a boy, the other a girl, both of whom died when about ten years old. In both the other children, who were girls, goitre developed at the age of four. In the younger of the two, the bronchocele dis- appeared completely, after the employment of iodine, internally and