306 TREATMENT OE PEDICLE. CARBOLIC SPRAY. Ever since ovariotomy was first introduced, the greatest import- ance has been attached to the treatment of the pedicle. I have employed only two methods, either using Wells’s clamp or allowing the pedicle to sink back into the abdomen after it had been ligatured with silk, hemp, or catgut. After numerous trials I came back to Spencer Wells’s plan of applying a clamp whenever it was possible, and bringing the stump up externally.1 No doubt the other method has the apparent advantage that the operation is com- pleted at once, but I did not find that convalescence was more rapid from its adoption, and I fail, therefore, to perceive its advan- tage. It is more convenient to apply a clamp than numerous liga- tures ; again it seems more reasonable to allow the sloughing layer of cellular tissue to separate externally than trust to its becoming encapsuled in the abdomen. On the other hand, we cannot deny that the stretching of the pedicle occasionally leads to mischief. It is dangerous to judge of these questions from mere figures, when we bear in mind the numerous other complications of the operation, but we have no means, other than statistics, of settling particular points of importance. I find that of 34 patients in whom I employed the clamp 11 died ; of 42 where the pedicle was returned 21 died. Acting on the advice of others, in 27 successive cases I returned the pedicle, but of these 15 died. This discouraged me considerably, the more that I did not meet with any better success when I employed catgut ligature and operated under the spray. This leads me to say a word or two on the use of the spray in ovariotomy. My first three operations did well; then came a very simple case in which the adhesions were few and slight, but which was followed by severe carbolism.2 One of my colleagues met with a similar misfortune with one of his patients. Death in this case occurred in the second week. In all these cases the hand spray had been employed with 2 per cent, solution of carbolic acid. I was so alarmed at the untoward results that, for a time, I gave up its use while operating, and merely allowed the spray to work in the room some little time before operation. This was in 1874. In 1877 I again resorted to 1 I am informed that Messrs Spencer Wolls and Ivnowsley Thornton now (1881) make it their practice to ligature the pedicle with silk and return it. They find that (under antiseptics) convalescence is considerably hastened when the ligature is used. See liote at end of chapter.—[Ed.] ? Supra, p. 15.