28 PRECAUTIONS AGAINST ERYSIPELAS. disease begins as soon as the patients arc exposed to the infection. In a few cases the onset of erysipelas followed so directly on some slight surgical proceeding—such, for instance, as the probing of a wound—that the probability of infection from the instrument could not be ignored. One of the worst cases of erysipelas I met with, and which ended fatally, developed in a young woman, immediately after the cauterisation of an old sinus of the breast with the galvanic wire. Even supposing that the sinus was infected by the probe which was used to introduce the wire, it is most remarkable that the contagium was not immediately destroyed by the intense heat. There is a terrible mystery about such cases. I was unable to prove that age, occupation, or the constitu- tion of the patients had anything to do with the causation of erysipelas. As to the duration and course of the fever, I have very little new information to give, but I have frequently been able 1o confirm observations previously made, that many cases are attended by continuous fever, while others run their course with interrupted attacks, each lasting several days (erysipelas recurrens). The only prophylactic treatment that is of any avail against the spreading of erysipelas in hospitals, consists in thoroughly cleaning and disinfecting the wards in which a case of erysipelas has broken out, whether it were introduced or whether it originated in the wards. The entire wards, and all the beds, bedding, and furniture must be most carefully disinfected. Isolation when the patient is once attacked is but a poor substitute when one cannot employ these radical measures. Erysipelas diminished to a minimum in my wards at Zurich, from the time that extra rooms were placed at my disposal, and I was able every five weeks to completely empty and thoroughly cleanse the wards. It has been urged against the efficacy of such precautions, that cases arc recorded where the very first surgical patients admitted into newly-built hospitals were attacked with erysipelas. Is it not possible in these cases that old sources of infection were introduced into the new house, in the bedding, bandages, etc. P Again, were the surgeons and nurses changed? The “specific” contagium of erysipelas, once started, is exceedingly difficult to destroy, and exceedingly difficult to banish from the wards. Still, if our nurses would give as much trouble to hunting out and clearing away every particle of dust from the wards as a careful housewife docs to keep her house in