NECROSIS. GANGLION. 361 Three years previously, a swelling the size of a fist, formed in the left axilla and opened spontaneously. Over the insertion of the deltoid, was a sinus, at the bottom of wliicb the probe came down upon hard, exposed bone. Passive movement of the shoulder was free enough, but the active movements were impaired. The sinus was laid open, and the cloaca enlarged with the chisel- Instead of the usual sequestrum in the humerus, it was found that the internal layer of bone turned towards the medullary cavity was exposed to the extent of about 8 centimetres. A counter-opening was made in the axilla, and a loose sequestrum, 3 centimetres in length, removed. Por ten days he went on well, but then rigors occurred, the precursors of acute osteomyelitis of the humerus. A fortnight later I resected the- upper half of the humerus; the shoulder-joint was uninvolved, but the section of the humerus showed unhealthy suppuration. Evidement of the suppurating medullary cavity was performed with the raspatory. The patient never rallied, and died five days later. At the post mortem we found abscesses in the lungs and double pleurisy. Necrosis op the Bones of the Upper Extremity. Suppuration anti the formation of sequestra in the upper ex- tremity is far more rarely followed by albuminuria than in the lower limb, and the disease is, on that account, far less dangerous to life even though a long time should elapse before the seques- trum should be removed. Osteomyelitis, in many cases was the result of typhus, or was attributed to that disease; in other instances some injury was the primary cause. Ganglion. (Z. B.) Six cases of ordinary ganglion on the dorsal aspect of the wrist came under treatment. In none of them did a forcible blow effect cure; in five of the cases I employed puncture and sub- cutaneous discission, and obtained permanent cure in all instances without any serious inflammatory symptoms. In one I used forcible compression, that is to say, a padded wooden splint was placed under the wrist, and strips of plaster were drawn tightly over the ganglion and the splint. The hand swelled up, and the ganglion became painful, but disappeared completely after the strapping had been applied a few times. After eight days it again became perceptible and was then again got rid of by compression. I he patient then left the hospital and I could not find out any-