343 EBACTUBE OB CLAVICLE. No bone was broken or joint opened, and tbe band was exactly like an anatomical preparation. A boy, cet. 18, caugbt his arm in a moving windmill; the humerus was fractured about an inch and a half below the joint and the skin torn off from the shoulder, the axilla, and in part from the back; below the point of fracture the arm was completely tom away. I left the stump of bone as it was, partly because without taking flaps from the chest I could not have got soft parts to cover it, and partly because I did not think the patient could long survive the injury. There was no haemorrhage. The case did surprisingly well, and the huge wound granulated up slowly after the removal of the stump of bone four months subsequent to the injury. Fracture of the Clavicle. In hospital practice, as is well known, but little is usually done to correct the displacement of these fractures. The moment the patients are free of pain and can use their arm a little they are sent out. Something can be done towards diminishing the dis- placement by careful and repeated application of Dessault’s or Briinninghausen’s apparatus, or Sayre’s plaster bandage. Many of these fractures, it is true, are attended with only a small amount of displacement. In children slight bendings often occur, which remain unnoticed by the parents until callus begins to form. In adults I never succeeded in adjusting and preserving the fragments in perfect position if the dislocation were of any great extent. I never saw any loss of function in the affected extremity, even when the fracture united with a considerable amount of displacement. When opportunities occurred of seeing these cases some years after the injury, I was often astonished to see how far the projecting ends of the fragments had become absorbed, and the thick mass of callus levelled down. Numerous preparations in our museums show how greatly these deformities improve by the lapse of time. Patients with this injury, when there was little or no displace- ment of the fragments, were treated from the first with a Mitella. When displacement existed the different forms of bandage that have been recommended were employed, but no great improve- ment to the deformity was ever gained by their use. I had previously, when at Berlin, convinced myself of the uselessness of these bandages for fractures of the clavicle attended with dis- placement, so that now I employ merely the axillary pad and bandage in all cases. To my pupils I recommend the axillary