APPENDIX I. CARBOLIC-ACID POISONING. The following case of carbolic-acid poisoning after ovariotomy may be added to those already given.1 From a woman, set. 41,1 removed a very large fibro-sarcoma of the ovary. She got over the operation well, bnt a portion of the growth which had been left behind in Douglas’s pouch began to increase. Ichorous discharge came from the cut surfaces. All the secretion escaped through an abdominal sinus, which I prevented from closing up by introducing laminaria tents from time to time. So it went on for months. Of the actual ovariotomy the patient could be said to have recovered. I could not make up my mind to operate again on the recurrent growth; all my efforts were directed to prevent decomposition of the surface of the abdominal tumour; I intended then to let the sinus close and discharge the patient as incurable. All the remedies ordinarily employed failed; after repeated dilatation of the sinus I intro- duced deeply two large drains close to one another, and then injected a con- siderable quantity of 3 per cent, carbolic acid solution through one of the tubes. The fluid did not completely escape through the other tube, and a quantity, the amount of which it was difficult to estimate exactly, remained in the abdominal cavity. As there was no ill effect from this during the next twenty-four hours, the injection was repeated on the two succeeding days. The urine became of a very dark olive green, but this was such a common occurrence that scarcely any notice was taken of it. On the evening of the third day she was attacked with severe headache, vomiting, and sleeplessness. The carbolic acid was discontinued and replaced by injections of acetate of alum solutions ; the headache, restlessness, and vomiting continued. On the seventh day tho patient was semi-comatose; the pupils were dilated, but answered tolorably quickly to light; the urine was now normal again, but the cerebral symptoms did not diminish and the drowsiness persisted. On the ninth day she was attacked with repeated epileptiform seizures (unfortu- nately not detailed in tho records of tho case) of short duration. Death on the tenth day. Post mortem : “ The dura mater, like the cerebral membranes generally and tho brain itself, very pale; tho convolutions much flattened, and tho brain substance wet and softer than natural; the ventricles dilated 1 The case.is given in the ‘Wien. Ber.,’ for 1860-76, in the chapter on “ Carbolic Acid Poisoning.”