467 CONGENITAL DISLOCATION. PES GIGAS. know not whether to classify it as one of osteoporosis, rachitis, or halisteresis.1 A lacl, ret. 12, strong aud stout for his age, was admitted with some shortening of the left leg, which caused him to limp very considerably. The lower half of the limb had a most typical riclietty curve. He walked on the outer edge of his foot, and had some pain in so doing. It was stated that he had suffered from scarlet fever when three years old, that the leg had then become bent, and that the curve had gone on increasing ever since. The bone was bent at an angle of forty-five degrees. Under an anresthetic I was able to straighten the limb without applying any great amount of force ; the leg was put up in a splint, and a few days later in a plaster bandage. Large quantities of lime water and milk were given internally. The patient was discharged soon after, as he was able to walk with crutches. I heard a few weeks later that the bandage had been taken off soon after he got home, and the condition had thereupon returned as before. Congenital lateral dislocation of the toes. A strong man, set. 61, was admitted with the following congenital defor- mity of the toes. In the right foot the head of the first metatarsal bone was displaced laterally, and lay beneath the skin on the inner edge of the foot; the great toe was displaced outwards; the fifth toe was displaced in a similar manner. In the left foot the deformity was the same, except that the second toe was completely dislocated. I am only acquainted with two other cases of a similar nature: a man with congenital lateral displacement in both hands of some of the fingers at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, and a girl who came under my treatment with a similar malformation of the hands. Fes gigas. The illustration (Pig. 24, next page) represents a congenital pes gigas in a boy,'set. 9. The second and third toes were abnormally developed, together with the central portion of the foot and the panniculus adiposus. Congenital absence of the femur. Plate Nil illustrates a case of this nature. The patient was admitted 1 ‘ Halisterischcr Knochenatrophie ’ of R. Volkmann.