294 CHRONIC ORCHITIS LEADING TO SUPPURATION. to retract. Even in such, perhaps, the condition may be just as well left as it is. Chronic Orchitis goinc on to Suppuration. I saw no instance of this disease in Northern Germany; I cannot say whether this was a coincidence or whether it is of rare occur- rence there. At Zurich I met with nine cases, occurring in men between the ages of twenty-one and sixty. The disease usually occurred in healthy subjects and generally without known cause, though in one instance it followed a blow. Abscesses slowly formed in different parts of the parenchyma which became filled with cheesy pus and lined with spongy granulations. The process may go on for years without giving any pain. It usually leads to complete destruction of the testis without materially affecting the general condition. In two cases the disease had existed for twelve and fif- teen years respectively. Twice I opened up the largest of the abscesses, scraped away the spongy granulations, and applied com- pression by means of strapping. The sinuses healed up, but whether fresh suppuration occurred later I do not know. In none of these cases had the patients any pulmonary disease, nor was there any history of gonorrhoea or syphilis. This form of chronic orchitis can often only be diagnosed by the history of the case; sometimes even by anatomical examination it cannot be distin- guished from tubercular or syphilitic orchitis. It always seems to me as if in Switzerland the affection occupied the place of tumours of the testis. It is remarkable that, during a period of seven years and a half at Ziirich, I met with no case of cystic or enchondroma- tous disease of the testis, and only three cases of malignant affection of the organ. At Berlin no semester passed without many coming under observation. With regard to the operation of castration, I may remark that in two cases I divided the cord with the ecraseur. The division was performed very slowly, yet haemorrhage came on in a few hours in both cases. This show's, at any rate, that the method is unsuited for private practice. I usually tie the vessels singly after cutting through the cord, but I think that they may just as well be liga- tured cn masse, provided that a sufficiently strong thread be employed.