7G PROGNOSIS IN PI10SPH0RUS PERIOSTITIS. In phosphorus necrosis of the upper jaw it has been asserted that no replacement of the bone takes place. This is only partly correct; naturally the alveolar process of the upper is less capable of restoration than that of the lower jaw. It must be remembered that after loss of the body of the upper jaw, no proper antrum will be re-formed, and the walls of the upper jaw will collapse. The palatine process is completed from above and below, but the bone will be greatly retracted; nothing is gained after extraction of the palatine process, by uniting the muco-periosteal investment of the hard 'palate to the upper lip. The zygomatic, nasal and orbital pro- cesses, may be completely regenerated. In one of my patients, who was supplied with an artificial alveolar process fitted with teeth, scarcely anything wrong would have been noticed, nor would any- body have supposed from seeing or speaking with the man, that both the upper jaws and both the zygomatic bones had been entirely lost. With regard to the danger to life of phosphorus periostitis, it is known that a few, especially among the young, die from its results, either from tuberculosis of the lungs, abscess of the brain, or marasmus. Two of my patients died of tuberculosis of the lungs during the inflammatory stage of the disease of the jaw. The two diseases are so far connected, that individuals predisposed to tuber- culosis of the lungs, are liable to this disease at an earlier period and in a more severe form, if their strength is exhausted by a com- plaint involving suppuration, ulceration and fever. A word as to the durability of the new periosteal bone. That a certain amount of atrophy and superficial destruction of the newly- formed bone takes place, cannot be denied, but neither in this case, nor in necroses elsewhere, does it proceed to such an extent as materially to interfere with the appearance. I may mention in sup- port of this statement, that I saw one of my patients who had suffered from total necrosis of the jaw, six years after his recovery. The new bone was smooth on the outer and inner surface but felt compact; it was slightly lower and smaller, however, than when he left the hospital. It is very interesting to observe, though the fact is unexplained, how the callus about a fracture, like iuvaginating bone, disappears only to a certain extent, and as nearly as possible reproduces the original shape of the bone.1 1 Some highly suggestive remarks on this point will be found in Paget’s ‘ Lectured on Surgical Pathology,’ Lecture vii.—[Ed.]