72 CLASS OP CASES SEEN IN ZURICH. sufficient to refute the assertion that disease of the teeth is always- found in connection with this malady. My tables show that of twenty-six cases the upper jaw was affected in eight instances, and the lower jaw in eighteen, and that the ages of the patients varied from 18 to 33.1 There was no material difference between the frequency of the malady in the two sexes. Most of these persons begin work in the manufactories as children; the length of time for which they had been employed bore no proportion to the severity of the disease, nor did it influ- ence its occurrence. It is well known that a person previously healthy may work for many years in a lucifer manufactory without becoming affected, pro- vided the rooms be well ventilated and proper precautions taken; on the other hand, a short period of the work in a badly-ventilated apartment, is sufficient to induce the disease; many accidental cir- cumstances have, however, to be taken into account. With regard to the progress of the complaint, I find it noted that only subacute or chronic cases came before me; I saw none of the very acute forms with foul suppuration and infective fever. The pain varies very much ; it is never completely absent, but instances occurred where it was sufficient to cause insomnia during many weeks. The dis- ease was usually associated with slow remittent fever, great emacia- tion, and weakness. In January, 1866, a strong peasant girl came under my care, from the Canton Unterwald, in whom the disease was in such an early stage that the periostitis could be treated as such. In this patient the teeth were all perfectly sound up to the first left molar; this had been healthy too, but the patient had allowed a country practitioner to extract it as she fancied that the pain was especially severe at this spot. At the bottom of the socket the bone was bare and suppurating. Over the whole of the lower jaw, the gum and periosteum were considerably swollen and painful; at the right border of the jaw lay a small abscess in the subcutaneous cel- lular tissue. (I may here remark that abscesses forming externally, in connection with the jaw, are by no means always directly set up 1 The history of twenty-three cases of this disease, arranged in a tabular form, will be found in Billroth’s ‘ Cliir. Kliuik,’ 1860-67, p. 83 et seq. Three other cases are recorded in the ‘Cliir. Klinik,’ for 1868. Most of these arc referred to in an essay by Dr. G. Haltenhof, entitled ‘ Dc la periostite et de la. Necrose Phosphorique,’ Zurich, 1865.