METHOD OP OPERATING. 814 part dissuaded those women who are able to rest and take care of themselves, from any operation, even though they most earnestly desired it. My experience has convinced me that technical difficulties alone stand in the way of making these operations more extensively prac- tised. Such difficulties it is fully in our power to overcome. Of the laparo-hysterotomies which I performed up to 1876, two recovered; one of these is described by Dr. Wolfler in the ‘ Arch. f. Klin. Chirurg.,’ Bd. xi. In the first case (a girl, 19 years of age), the immense size of the tumour,—in the second, the uncontrollable haemorrhage, decided me to operate. Of the five fatal cases, two died of haemorrhage : the first, two hours, the second, twenty-eight hours after the completion of the operation. One patient died on the third day of septic peritonitis, another on the sixth day from volvulus of the ileum; in this case, enterotomy was performed without success. A third died on the seventeenth day of pyaemia, with suppurating thrombosis of the pelvic veins, and emboli in the lungs. Although my list of cases is far from numerous, and my experi- ence consequently limited, still, I may be allowed to make some observations on certain points which seem to me to be worthy of remark. I take for granted that nobody would venture on these operations who had not already, from ovariotomy, obtained some experience of those principles whose observance is indispensable in laparotomy. A point that distinguishes these operations from ova- riotomies at the outset is, that in large tumours, an extensive inci- sion has to be made, often right up to the xiphoid appendix. When so large an opening is made into the abdominal cavity, great attention is necessary on the part of the assistants in order to pre- vent the escape of the intestines. I must, from my experience, protest against removing the tumour piecemeal (Pean’s <1 morcelle- ment”) or attempting to remove small portions of the tumour by enucleation; such a method prolongs the operation very much, and can scarcely be performed without serious loss of blood. I con- sider the danger of a large incision pei- se, to be less than that of the so-called manipulation. In these operations no adhesions should be torn; they should invariably be ligatured with a double thread or clamped peripherally and then tied on the proximal side. The haemorrhage from the