44'^ HYDROPS GENU. LOOSE CARTILAGE. lirul to be removed a few days later, owing to great pain in the part, and the formation of a periarticular abscess. In spite of keeping the joint at perfect rest, the application of ice, etc., he grew worse, and I eventually excised the knee. Two days after the operation, the patient, died of acute meningitis and oedema of the brain.1 Hydrops Genu. In one case of this nature I tapped the joint and injected a mixture containing equal parts of iodine and water; after five minutes the injection was allowed to escape again. Recovery followed, though I was unable to learn whether it was permanent. Puncture and forcible pressure by bandages effected a cure in one case. Lately I have adopted Yolkmann’s plan of forcible compression, and Heine’s method of compression with sponges. The fluid was usually absorbed, but the treatment gave great pain and the fluid re-collected, directly the pressure was relaxed. Many cases proved very obstinate, while on the other hand, many subsided with simple rest. I know no method of treatment which is at once quick in its action and efficacious in preventing recurrence in this troublesome complaint. Loose cartilage in the Jcnee-joint. A man, set. 29, was admitted, who had suffered for ten yearn from charac- teristic symptoms of loose cartilage in the knee-joint. The patient was able to press the loose body towards the patella, and there fix it. In this situation I cut down and removed a body, the size of a plum stone, composed of hone, with a cartilaginous investment. The parts healed up by first in- tention, without any antiseptic precautions. It was now discovered that a second small loose cartilage was still in the joint, which was not so easily brought to the surface. I cut down upon it as before, a month after the first operation. Unfortunately, a good deal of blood escaped into the joint, suppuration of the knee followed, and the patient died of pyaemia. Rosalie H—, aet. 46. In this case the characteristic pain had first drawn her attention to the loose cartilage two months before admission. Swelling of the knee and rigors followed, with subacute synovitis lasting for three months. The patient had been able to distinctly feel the cartilage before 1 Further details of this case will be found in the ‘ Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1869, No. 1. Cf. also ‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1868, No. 1, andsupra, Chapter II, p. 12.