THYROID CYST TREATED BY IODINE INJECTION. 167 the pharynx. We were now prepared to find it necessary to feed the patient through the tube, but to our no little astonishment, the patient was able to swallow fluid, without the escape of a single drop through the cyst. It appeared that the edges of the opening into the pharynx had become so dis- placed on the collapse of the cyst, that the action of the valve was completely reversed. Extensive breaking down of the inner surface of the cyst wall took place, followed by haemorrhage from the deep parts, and he died of pyaemia. Post mortem, the diagnosis was confirmed ; the opening into the pharynx was about the level of the cricoid cartilage, but it was so contracted that it would scarcely admit the point of the little finger. The opening in the cyst wall, and that in the mucous membrane of the pharynx, formed the orifices of a canal about three lines in length, which ran obliquely upwards. Probably the walls of this canal were so pressed together, when the muscles of deglutition contracted, that no fluid was able to get through. Herr X—, a man about 6o years of age, bad on the right side, a cyst of the thyroid, about the size of a foetal head, which had existed for a great many years. I was hastily summoned one day and found him com- pletely cyanosed, with a small pulse, and rattling respiration. The cyst had always occasioned him some difficulty in breathing, but the immediate con- dition had been brought on by acute catarrh, resulting from a recent cold. His medical attendant had employed divers remedies for the catarrh, but the difficulty of breathing kept on increasing, and threatened to terminate fatally by oedema of the lungs. I felt bound to do something to ward off the immi- nent danger, although I did not expect much chance of saving his life, either by puncture, injection with iodine, or incision. I hesitated to lay open the cyst, on account of its size, and partly also, from fear that the operation might lead to extension of sloughing, and suppuration of the inner surface. Moreover I thought that the inflammation always following any operative treatment of bronchoceles, would probably prove fatal. As I had formerly seen more violent reaction follow after simple puncture than after puncture combined with iodine injection, I selected the latter method. Tbe evacuation of the contents of the cyst only partly succeeded, for though I employed a trocar of moderate calibre, the fluid, which was of a brownish-red colour, only escaped in small quantities. The canula constantly became choked, and then had to be cleared again ; the cyst required to be pressed repeatedly and a part of the fluid could only be drawn off with a syringe. Manipulations of this nature, where there is no dyspnoea leads often to such bad results, that in this case I feared so much the more that violent inflammation of the sac would ensue. At last I succeeded in emptying the cyst, and thou injected half on ounce of strong tincture of iodine, and applied a collodion bandage. Although the patient was much relieved from his dyspno:a by the operation yet ho did not rally properly, owing to his very weak state. In spite of strong morphia injections, ho had passed many sleepless nights in succession before I saw him. From the comparatively slight effect on the dyspncea, it seemed possible that his condition was due to swelling of the tracheal mucous momhrano at the con- stricted part, as well as from emphysema and bronchial catarrh ; howover, bis condition for twenty-four hours after the operation improved. Tho cyst then