154 MEDULLARY LYMPHOMA AND LYMPHO-SAECOMA. two forms of morbid growth, though it is by no means easy to do so. From a clinical point of view such a separation, so far as my acquaintance with the two forms of disease extends, would be of little value. In early stages, and when they first originate, no dis- tinction can be made between the two forms of glandular enlarge- ment. After they have grown for some time unnoticed, they begin rapidly to increase; the separate nodules coalesce, the whole mass of the tumour becomes adherent to the deeper parts surrounding the lower jaw, extending back to the vertebral column, and displacing or even becoming united to the larynx. In the meantime the skin over the tumour has turned red and thin; the tumour is in parts so soft, as to yield a sense of fluctuation, though it contains no fluid. In this state it may remain for a few weeks. If the growth be extirpated at this period the tumour on section will resemble in consistence the white matter of the brain. In some parts it will be semi-solid, in other parts separable into bundles, like those of muscle or the fasciculi of coagulated fibrin (carcinoma fasciculatum of Bokitansky1); the individual glands can scarcely be differentiated one from another in the uniform mass. The tumour is certainly sur- rounded completely by a capsule of cellular tissue, but the separate capsules investing the glands will have disappeared and become lost in the mass of the growth. Microscopically, no structure can be found, while in freshly-cut portions of the tumour only lymph-cells, with here and there a few spindle-cells and fine bundles of cellular tissue will be recognised. If thin sections of preparations, hardened in chromic acid or alcohol, be pencilled over or shaken up, a fine network of fibres bearing a rich capillary plexus, similar to that found in the alveoli of the lymphatic glands, may be recognised, in the meshes of which the lymph-cells are contained. The mor narrow the meshes of the net are, the more does the structure of the lymphoma approach to that of the granulation sarcoma (glioma of Yirchow); not infrequently, indeed, two forms may be united together in the lymphoma. The thicker the fibrous reticulation, the larger the spaces, the more does the network resemble the stroma of a cancer. This means of distinction led me to characterise the following case as one of medullary lymphoma : H. K—, set. 30, had noticed for thirteen months glandular swelling on the right side of his neck. In the course of a year the tumours had increased, without pain, to the size of a foetal head. In removing the growth the pncurno- 1 ‘Billr. Path.,’ Hackley’s Trans., p. 618.