221 INFLUENCE OF LACTATION ON CANCER. had children, are also put down under the same head. From this table it results that cancer of the breast was seen in twenty-three unmarried, and 213 married. But even these figures do not show really that the unmarried have any security against the development of cancer, or again, that the married are especially predisposed thereto, for the proportion of the unmarried to the married, in the table of cases, corresponds pretty closely to the proportion of un- married to the married generally. Again, of 209 married women who had cancer, 186 had borne children, while twentry-three were barren. Now, these figures again correspond generally to the pro- portion of fruitful to unfruitful women. Even from the best kept records, it cannot be made out how many of these women nursed their children themselves, or for how long; I must therefore leave the question undecided, whether the nursing or non-nursing of the children, or whether a long-continued or brief period of lactation predisposes to cancer formation ; nor am I able to make any positive statement on the frequency with which mastitis has previously occurred in breasts that later become the seats of cancer.1 It is far better to confess that we do not know anything for certain about these matters than to make mixed statements. That the disease is sometimes hereditary is beyond question, but even if minute statistics could be got out on this point, they would be incomplete, unless we were able also to discover whether the ancestors and blood relations had new formations in other parts of their organism, and especially whether any suffered from carcinoma. Even amongst the educated classes, such investigations meet with insuperable obstacles. Of the further characteristics, and the histological nature of the cancers operated upon, I have seldom been able to find in the records accounts sufficiently precise to justify any general statement, beyond the fact that I am able to guarantee the accuracy of the diagnosis, “ carcinoma." This much I can say with certainty, that of the above-mentioned 245 cases I only met with a single case of melanotic cancer, already described. In three instances the cancer developed simultaneously in both breasts, two being cases of cancer “ en cuirasse/’ We often see that when carcinoma exists in one breast, towards the end it develops in both mammse. I have already mentioned the frequency with which metastasis takes place 1 Cf. Birkett, article in ‘Holmes’s Syst. Surg.,’ 2nd ed., vol. v, p. 275,and Paget, ‘ Surg. Path.’ 3rd ed., pp. 635 et seq.