ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. 5 On one point I wish, particularly to insist, viz. the absolute im- portance of carefully watching patients treated antiseptically. I have never felt so much anxiety in any other operation cases, for if they do not go on perfectly well they generally go utterly to the bad. When, in “ aseptic ” cases, septic phlegmonous inflammation is set up under an occlusion-dressing, the same thing happens as when the abdominal wound is completely closed after laparotomy, that is to say, so much toxic inflammatory and infective material is gene- rated that the patient will die in spite of all incisions. It is of the greatest importance, though a matter of some difficulty, to recog- nise this state of things in the early stage. As often happens in septic poisoning, the temperature may be either at, or even below, the normal; but if the patient's expression be altered, his tongue clammy, the condition drowsy, the pulse rapid, the sym- ptoms ought never to pass unnoticed, for they betoken a most dangerous condition. The wound may be opened at this stage; there will often be no ill smell. If the phlegmonous inflammation has commenced in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, it will be recognised by a slight brownish discoloration of the cutis near the wound. If the deeper parts be attacked, there will be no positive evidence. Formerly I thought that under the antiseptic treat- ment such phlegmonous inflammations might subside, and so per- severed in the treatment; thus I lost many patients. It is of the utmost importance to recognise the moment when the antiseptics should be discarded. In former times the surgeon felt that he could do something himself for operation cases by careful watching and supervision; but nowadays, so much depends upon the hands and clothes of assistants and nurses., and on the intelligence of the workmen who manufacture the dressings, that the surgeon, though Vienna (the K. K. Allg. Krankenhaus), there were but 17 with complicated fractures of the leg. Again, at the Rudolf-Spital, in Vienna, 17 cases of fractured leg simple or otherwise were recorded during the year 1874, out of a total of 5775 admissions. The small number of these and other severe injuries is accounted for, according to Prof. Billroth, by several reasons. Thus, in Vienna there are no large iron manufactories. The railway companies have their own special hospitals. Again, the Viennese working man is as a rule careful, and rarely drinks to excess during the working hours. In Northern Germany dram drinking (schnaps) is far more common. There the men are seldom actually intoxicated while at work, but they have strong liquor constantly by them. Severe injuries are much more common in Northern Germany. It is to be feared that the experience in our English hospitals fully bears out Prof. Billroth’s suggested explanations.