385 OSTEO-SARCOMA. EPITHELIAL CANCER. Osteo-sarcoma of the humerus. This tumour, which appeared in a man, ret. 27, was attributed to an injury received a year previously, and had attained the size of a child’s head. The arm was amputated at the shoulder-joint. The tumour was found to be a periosteal large-celled sarcoma. The wound healed, but the man died two months later of pleurisy and pericarditis. After death, numerous sarco- matous nodules were found in the pulmonary and costal pleura. Central osteo-sa/rcoma of ulna. Resection of the affected lone on two occasions. A girl, set. 16, was admitted who, nine months previously had sprained her right wrist. Some pain persisted in the lower end of the ulna after the injury, and four months later some swelling was noticed. The surgeon who was attending her, thinking that the symptoms were due to periostitis, cut down on the swelling ; no pus escaped, but new growth protruded from the incision, and foirl, sanious discharge followed. The girl had become so reduced that her condition seemed most critical when I first saw her. On minute examination, I made out a central osteo-sarcoma in the lower part of the ulna; the growth was in great paid encapsuled by the periosteum. I therefore proposed resection of the lower part of the ulna, instead of amputation, as had been suggested. The wrist-joint was unavoidably opened in the operation, but I succeeded in preserving all the tendons and nerves; a portion however, of the ulnar artery was excised. The skin of the soft parts, after removal of all suspicious tissue just sufficed to cover the wound. Under antiseptic treatment with boracic acid, the patient recovered perfectly, and a few months after the operation, the functions of the hand were so perfectly restored, that she was able to play the harpsichord and do any fine work. Such a result exceeded my most sanguine expectations. For nearly two years all went on well, but then pain and swelling commenced about the cicatrix, and gradually the growth began to recur. When the tumour had attained the size of a hen’s egg, I removed it again. It was then con- nected to the lower end of the ulna, but did not appear to have sprung from it. She again recovered, with perfect use of the part. Epithelial carcinoma of the upper arm, originating in the wound of an issue. The following case is of particular interest, for it shows that under certain unknown conditions, constant irritation, which usually causes merely simple ulceration, may give rise to the development of true carcinoma.1 1 Compare the case of coccygeal tumour related above, p. 337.