474 COMPARISON OP ZURICH AND VIENNA STATISTICS. does not bear that full significance in many of the cases of caries, which are a very numerous class. If, for example, a patient with tuberculosis of the lungs were discharged with his stump healed, or nearly so, he was put down in the tables as “ re- covered, but if, for some reason or other, he remained in the hospital till the time of his death, his case was entered in another table. In large hospitals it is impossible to obviate entirely such sources of error. tThe class of “ amputations on account of injuries” corresponds, generally speaking, to that formerly em- ployed of “ primary amputations,” but in order to avoid multiply- ing the number of groups, I have included a few cases in which amputation was performed at a later period, as, for example, where by gradual necrosis or suppuration (the patient not being pysemic) the skin was so far destroyed that the wound could not be expected to heal up. I agree altogether with Yolkmann in rejecting the groups of “intermediary” and “secondary” amputations, and substituting for them a class “ where septo-pyremia has already developed at the time of amputation.” The surgeon must often be in grave doubt as to the class in which he is to enter this or that case, and the lists of “ intermediary ” and “ secondary ” amputations not infrequently included very diverse cases. With respect to the rather numerous deaths from tuberculosis, it must be noted that I often performed amputations of the foot, the leg, or the arm, in order to relieve patients from the pain of carious joints. Yolkmann enters delirium potatorum as one of the “intercurrent diseases having no direct connection with the wound.” This con- ception of the condition I do not share. Acute fatal cases of delirium potatorum, are, according to my view, set up in drunkards by intense inflammation of the absorption of phlogogenous matter from the wounds or the parts around. I consider the delirium there- fore as an accidental disease of wounds, and classify it as sucli in my tables. Comparing the statistics of amputations in my practice at Zurich with those at Yienna, I find an improvement in the latter of 10 per cent. I think there are two reasons for this:—(i) that in Yienna there were not nearly so many amputations for injuries, and far more from caries, (2) that in Yienna I adopted systemati- cally the open treatment of wounds,1 while in Zurich I practised 1 See tlic remarks on p. 30, relating to Figs. 1 and 2, p. 29.