490 CARBOLIC-ACID POISONING. and full of clear serum ; the brain tissue in the neighbourhood of the right lenticular ganglion and the parts immediately around tinged with a yellow pigment, the nature of which could not be determined. In the bronchial tubes abundant frothy mucus. Both lungs highly cedematous and anaemic. Heart natural size, slightly contracted ; in its cavity some purulent exudation. The visceral and parietal pericardium injected and covered with a tough layer of fibrinous exudation. The abdominal organs adherent to each other in great part by stringy and membranous connective tissue. Both kidneys pale. The liver, spleen, and intestinal canal anaemic.”1 Such information as I have been able to gather on the subject of carbolic- acid poisoning strengthens the suggestion made by Professor Billroth that the simple difference of nationality may account for the greater frequency of severe cases observed by him. At the same time I suspect that the sus- ceptibility to the toxic action of carbolic acid does not vary so much as might appear at first sight. There seems to be a general consensus of opinion that children and weakly women are more liable to the effects of the drug than others. Through the kindness of my friend, Mr. J. A. Kempe, late house- surgeon at the Hospital for Sick Children in Great Ormond Street, I learn that among the patients there mild cases were moderately fx’equent, but the symptoms rarely went beyond dark urine, vomiting, and elevation of tem- perature. Mr. Kempe ascribed this at one time to the crude quality of the carbolic acid employed, and found that with a purer description the cases were at any rate far less frequent. The symptoms subsided always readily on the discontinuance 'of the carbolic acid. It was noticed in several cases that urine which at first showed no trace of the characteristic tinge became dark after standing for some hours.2 Again, Mr. Spencer Wells, in a paper read before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society,3 stated that he had never known injurious effects from carbolic acid in any of his cases of ovariotomy. I have seen dark urine, associated perhaps, with slight nausea and some elevation of temperature, after ovariotomy, but not proportionately more frequently than after other operations. Here, again, the symptoms always readily subsided after the carbolic acid had been replaced by other sub- stances. Carbolic eczema is more common and, so far as I have been able to learn, the carbolic antiseptic dressings are abandoned or changed for 1 Another case of carbolic poisoning after ovariotomy will be found supra, p. 15. 3 See a paper by Mr. Thomas Smith in the ‘ St. Bart. Hosp. Rep.,’ vol. xiv, 1878, p. 137. Mr. Smith notes also (p. 144) the great susceptibility of -children to the toxic influence of the acid, but does not mention any fatal case. 3 A very brief abstract of the paper will be found in the ‘ Med. Chir. Proc.,’ vol. ix, No. 1, p. 31. See also on the same subject the reports of two very animated discussions at the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society in the Lancet,’ December 18th, 1880, vol. ii, No 25, p. 976, and January ifltb, ibbi, vol. i, No. 3, p. ici.