290 RADICAL TREATMENT OP HYDROCELE. pressure; sometimes that gonorrheal orchitis preceded the hydro- cele by a few years; but this is not of such common occurrence that we should be justified in assuming that because gonorrhoea and hydrocele are common affections, there is any etiological connection between the two. In fact we must admit that in the majority of cases the causes of origin of hydrocele are perfectly unknown. I have never operated in hydroceles in children, for the affection almost invariably disappears spontaneously. The youngest patient on whom I operated was fourteen years of age. He had a hydro- cele of the spermatic cord. My teachers, Baum and v. Langenbeck, instructed me that any ordinary form of hydrocele could be cured by puncture and injection of iodine. V. Langenbeck saw the affection return in a few cases, and thereupon employed chloroform injections for a time, but recurrence followed also after the use of this remedy. Baum told me in conversation once, that when recurrence took place after the iodine injection it was either due to some defect iu the method of operation, or to the fact that the iodine solution was badly pre- pared. The process of cure is, that the iodine forms a precipitate in the tunica vaginalis; there it remains for a long time undissolved, and leads to shrinking of the membrane. No further effusion can therefore occur. It is erroneous to suppose that injection of iodine always causes complete adhesion of the inner surfaces; partial adhesions may at times form, but this is not the main thing. The shrinking of the tunica vaginalis, is the reason for the cessation of the secretion. The results of iodine injections for hydrops articuli, hydro-nephrosis, or into ovarian cysts, show that the opposing surfaces do not become united together; if this were the case the result of this treatment for hydrops of the knee would always lead to ankylosis of the joint; it is obvious that complete adhesion of the synovial surfaces would produce perfect immobility. When I was younger, curiosity led me at times to try other methods of treatment; thus, in two cases of hydrocele I employed electrolysis; in one of the cases the condition returned as before. In 125 instances I used iodine injections and none of the patients came back to me with recurrence of their complaint; it was of course possible, that in one or two the affection returned, and that they sought other advice. I doubt it, for people with recurrence of tumours or chronic inflammations nearly always came back to me.