108 EPITHELIOMA OP THE LIP. Cancer of the Face, Nasal and Oral Cavities.1 Epithelioma of the lip. Of thirty cases occurring in my practice at Zurich, twenty-nine were on the lower and one only on the upper lip. The duration of time which the patients allowed to elapse from the commencement of the disease up to the first operation varied exceedingly. Any attempts to make use of records with regard to recurrence, exten- sion of degeneration, and especially of the infection of the lymphatic glands, meets with insuperable obstacles. The greatest variations are found in respect of the rapidity of growth, and the time at which the glands become infected. The impression that I have formed is that, speaking generally, the progress of the disease is slower in proportion to the lateness of the age at which it first occurs. Further, when the disease commences with the formation of epithe- lial scabs and fissures on the edge of the lip (i.e. superficial epithelial cancer, starting from the rete Malpighii) the progress is more slow, and the lymphatic glands are affected later, than when the cancer commences in the form of small nodules in the substance of the lip, or as ulceration on its inner surface {i.e. infiltrated glandular follicular epithelial cancer). This last form attacks the glands remarkably early. All the thirty cases mentioned were operated upon. In some of them the operation extended beyond the lip, when infiltrated glands in the neck required removal. In cancer of the lip I never employed drugs, and have been no case hitherto in which any im- provement followed local remedies. On the other hand, I have seen numerous cases where the patients have been tormented with the repeated application of caustics, which have done no good. Some highly satisfactory results are shown in my tables. Nine of the patients were so far improved by operation that they were in the best of health from two to seven and a half years afterwards. In five others recurrence followed so rapidly after operation that we could only suppose that some of the growth had been left behind. Most operators are very sensitive to any suggestion that any rein- .nants of cancer have been left behind in the patients who have been 1 Elaborate statistical tables will be found in the ‘ Ziiricher Bericht,’ pp. 120-144