392 FRACTURED PATELLA. PYEMIA AFTER SIMPLE FRACTURE. jiatientSj after a year or so, bocotne astonishingly clever in getting abouf, and after a couple of years will scarcely be aware that they have any deformity. Of course, however, it is more to the interest ot the patient that such should not be the case. Massage will be found the most useful means of improving the movements of the anlde-joint, which are often much impaired. Fracture of the Patella. (W. B.) In treating this injury, I have found no inducement to depart from the old methods of treatment, such as putting the limb up in splints or a plaster bandage, frequently drawing the fragments together by strapping and the like. Those who have had plenty of opportunities of seeing how well people are able to get about with the fragments of their patellae an inch or more apart, will hardly be tempted in ordinary cases to proceed to any cutting operation. If a case should be met with where the patellar fragments are much separated, and the limb useless, an operation like that for pseud- arthrosis, such as resecting and uniting the fragments, might pro- perly, under antiseptic precautions, be undertaken. Simple fracture of the leg, followed by pyaemia. A man, set. 84, was run over, and sustained a fracture of the upper third of the left leg. There was scarcely any discoloration of the skin. Consider- ing his age he was fairly strong and well, and, as we subsequently found, the arteries were nowhere atheromatous except in the brain. A plaster bandage was applied over the knee. On the fourth day the temperature shot up to 103-6°, and on the fourteenth day to 104°, varying between this level and the normal. The patient lost strength daily and complained of difficulty of breathing; finally, oedema of the lungs set in, and he died fifteen days after the injury. Post mortem : “ Commencing formation of callus at the situa- tion of fracture, the parts around, as is usual at this period of fracture, being somewhat infiltrated and of a dark brownish-red colour. Thrombosis of the left femoral vein, and embolism of some of the branches of the left pulmo- nary artery. In both lungs infarcts and abscesses; the cerebral arteries atheromatous, and in the brain numerous small breaking-down deposits,” 1 1 Pat embolism (P).—[Ed.]