458 TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. MODE OP CURE. aneurism by ligature and arterial closure (arterienklausur) I am bound to say have been rather disappointed. The cases have been so few that each one has been more of the nature of an experiment. Recent experience has added still more to my satisfaction with the success ol instrumental compression. No doubt perseverance is required both of surgeon and patient, and the latter ought to understood and co-operate in the treatment. The frequent employ- ment of the elastic bandage so as to envelop the entire extremity, is of material assistance in this method of treatment. At first, the bandage can only be kept on for a few minutes, but subsequently it can be tolerated for half an hour at a time and several times daily, if the patients have determination. I was surprised on observing that by this method the aneurism does not at first become solid from the formation and collection of blood clot, but that long before this change takes place the sac becomes softer and smaller. The solidification of the tumour and the cessation of pulsation are of course the most favourable signs to be looked for, and are brought about, not by the organisation of the clot, but by the shrinkage of the sac to its smallest possible dimensions. The diminution of the intra-aneurismatic pressure leads to the shrinkage and the cure is completed by the filling up of the sac. The clot must be absorbed, and this can only be accomplished by means of the vessels supplying the aneurismal walls. The shrinkage of the sac must progress simultaneously with the resorption, and to such an extent that the cavity entirely disappears. In one case, the sac appeared to have become entirely shut off from the opening in the artery, without any coagulation of its contents; after the removal of the bandage the aneurismal sac was still of its former size, soft and fluctuating; absolutely no pulsation could be felt in it, nor was any bruit audible. The explanation of the fact that the fluid blood was not absorbed could evidently be only due to the slight vascularity of the sac, a condition which had perhaps been caused by the firm bandaging of the limb. Remembering this case, where the blood remained fluid in a sac which, to all appearances, was no longer connected with the tube of the artery, and also my unsuccess- ful attempt to close the artery by means of instruments, I have been led to doubt whether we are correct in supposing that the blood can only be preserved in a fluid state if the walls of the vessels are normal. These observations and reflections led me to the conclusion that