494 ANATOMY OF STOMACH AND GASTRIC CANCER. The second operation was performed by Rydygier,1 who, on the 16tl\ November, 1880, removed a cancer of the pylorus from a man set. 64. The patient died twelve hours after the operation.2 The anatomy of the stomach and gastric cancer. The position of the stomach will be found to vary so much in different subjects that no decided rule can be laid down as to the incision which will lead down most directly to the pylorus. This part, when cancerous, constantly shifts its position. Rokitansky knew of cases in which the pylorus had sunk down by its weight as far as the symphysis pubis, and Billroth remembered a case where a cancerous pylorus was found close above Poupart’s ligament, on the right side. To find it beneath, or to the right or left of the umbilicus, is by no means uncommon. Not only the weight of the diseased part, but the adhesions also which it con- tracts with the neighbouring organs, conduce to alter its position. The vessels with which the operator is chiefly concerned are, the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery, and the gastro-epiploica dextra; the latter vessel is easily separable from its loose connec- tions with the greater curvature. The veins run parallel with their arteries. Prom three to five lymphatic glands are usually found in the lesser omentum, and from four to seven on the greater curvature. Gussenhauer and v. Winiwarter have shown that the pylorus is a favourite seat of cancer, and that the affection attacks the neighbouring organs comparatively late. Among 903 cases of gastric cancer, the disease started in 543 in the pylorus. Among these, it was found at the post-mortem examination that in 323 there were no cancerous nodules. Still more important is the fact that in 172 instances there were no adhesions to the neighbouring organs. Of especial interest, with regard to resection of the pylorus, is the fact observed by Rokitansky that cancer of the pylorus scarcely ever extends down the duodenum. 1 * Przcglad Lekarslci,’ No. 50, 1880. - It appears that about two years ago Guido Cavazzani, of Castelfranco, while extirpating a tumour of -the abdominal walls, successfully excised a portion of the anterior Avail of the stomach. Further details will be found in the ‘ Gazetta Medica Italiana, Provincie Yenete,’ 22nd March, 1879, No. 12, p. 99.