181 STATISTICS OF VERTEBRAL CARIES. diagnosed during life. In children, acute basal meningitis not unfrequently finally caries off the patients. If the disease commences in adult life, general tuberculosis, in many cases, soon becomes evident, even if it were not already in existence when the vertebral •column became affected. I have not observed hitherto that the paralysis (usually connected with contraction of the muscles) which sometimes follows Pott’s disease, can of itself prove fatal. I have often been astonished to observe how long patients paralysed in this way are able to exist when placed under favourable conditions. The paralysis, even when it has reached a high degree, may dis- appear in part, sometimes almost entirely. I see now, from time to time, a girl, set. iS, in whom paralysis of the lower extremities has existed for four years, as the result of caries of the spine and angular curvature of many years’ standing. A year after the commencement of the paralysis, there was entire absence of movement in the extremities. Since then some slight movements have gradually returned. When I last saw her the legs were somewhat flexed at the knees, and attempts to straighten them gave severe pain and general cramp. The patient has to be kept con- stantly lying. Attempts to straighten the legs gradually, so as to enable her to get about, by means of some artificial support, proved fruitless; the appli- cation of the constant current did not diminish the great reflex irritability. I cannot say for certain whether faradisation of the muscles had any influence in bringing about the slight movements which she now possesses in the lower extremities. The sensibility of the skin seems quite unimpaired. Prom Menzel’s highly interesting statistics on the subject of caries ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,’ Bd. xii, p. 340) we may gather that the vertebrae are more frequently affected with caries than any other bones. Of 1196 cases of caries, the vertebral column was affected in 703 ; the different sections of the spine, were affected in the following proportions :—Cervical vertebrae 185 ; dorsal vertebrae 310; lumbar vertebrae 199; in 8 cases the part affected was not stated. I was very much interested in observing that the small number of cases (90) in my clinic proved also that the dorsal vertebrae were more frequently affected, from which we may fairly deduce that a collection of 100 cases is sufficient to show the true proportion. Unfortunately in my records, the actual vertebrae involved in the kyphosis are not precisely noted, so I cannot say whether my small number of cases confirms the observations of Menzel, that the second cervical, the sixth dorsal, and the fourth lumbar vertebrae are most frequently, and the fifth cervical and the first lumbar are most rarely diseased. Y. Menzel’s chart (loc. cit.