317 TREATMENT OP STUMP. fore part of the instrument was removable. As soon as the chain had been drawn sufficiently tight, it was fixed by means of a screw in the removable part, and it could then be left on after the manner of a clamp and the surface of the stump cauterised. A strong silk thread was then placed on the pedicle below the loop of the ecraseur, so that the knot came on the right side. After the knot had been firmly secured on the pedicle, the two ends of the silk were threaded on a needle, which was then passed through the abdominal wall from within outwards, brought out an inch from the cut edge of the skin and there secured. A similar thread was secured on the left side in the same way. The threads being tied above the skin on both sides, the peritoneal surface of the wound in the abdominal wall lay in firm apposition with the stump : drainage tubes could then be placed between the uniting sutures, in the ordinary way, passing close up to the stump. By this method the portion of the stump, which has been encircled, is kept well out of the abdominal cavity, and if it sinks back, draws down also the part of the abdominal wall to which it has been apposed, so that the pedicle cannot be forcibly torn away. By the time that the chain of the ecraseur comes away the threads also separate, and require merely to be cut through on the surface of the skin, in order to be withdrawn. Some inconvenience in dressing is occasioned by the rusting of the chain of the ecraseur, which is allowed to remain and sinks back deeply, but this is of no moment. When I tried this method for the first time, I did not leave the chain in situ, but I passed strong, double ligatures threaded on a very long straight needle through the pedicle. The latter was raised up vertically and the threads were passed horizontally, from before backwards, and were then knotted at the sides. After this had been done, the chain of the ecraseur was released. In spite, however, of the firm way in which the pedicle was secured, bleeding occurred from it, necessitating the securing of several vessels. In my next case I shall try this method again, but after each separate thread has been knotted at the side, I shall carry it once more round the whole pedicle, and draw on it firmly for some time before I tie the knot. The stump of the uterus is so clastic that it requires to be compressed for some time, in order that all serum may be squeezed out, before the knots are secured. In applying the ecraseur, great care must be taken; it must be drawn tight very slowly. After a few minutes the chain will be