CHRONIC ORCHITIS AND IMPOTENCE. 293. spermatic ducts and epididymis are involved in the degeneration, and so rendered impermeable. Generally, however, even when, the disease affects both sides, a number of the spermatic ducts, sufficient to effectually prevent impotence, remain pervious. In the case above mentioned, I acceded ultimately to the wish of the patient, although I openly expressed my doubt whether the operation would have any effect on the impotence; I laid open the scrotum on both sides, drew out the testes, carefully removed the nodules, replaced the organs, and then sewed up the wound in the scrotum. All the parts healed up by first intention; the operation and the rapid healing had an additional interest for me in that it was the first that I performed under the antiseptic system. This was in the spring of 1875. Notwithstanding repeated attempts, I was unfortunately unable to learn whether the operation had the desired functional effect. Where no impotence existed, I should not advise an operation of this nature; we might be unlucky enough to injure the few spermatic ducts still remaining pervious. The affection is so indolent, and the nodules remain stationary for so long in many of these cases that the patients are seldom induced to demand operation. No doubt there are individuals who become deeply hypochondriacal from the idea that these nodules may cause impotence, and so are very anxious to get rid of them. The conditions are different when the nodules are softened and fluctuating, or when they have already broken externally and it becomes necessary to cure the sinus. Such cases are most pro- bably associated with a tubercular diathesis. If bronchial catarrh is present ot the apices of the lungs are already infiltrated, it is better not to resort to any operative means. The suppuration in any case is usually but slight after spontaneous opening, and may be still further limited by repeated energetic cauterisation of the sinuses at intervals of fourteen days or so. Under this treatment the sinuses occasionally close, but such a result cannot as a rule be looked for. If there is no distinct proof of any tubercular disease in other organs, I enlarge the sinuses with laminaria or the knife,, scrape out the abscess walls with a sharp spoon, and then introduce charpie soaked in Liquor Terri and dried, and wait until it is thrown ofl by suppuration. Not infrequently a cure is obtained in this manner. Castration is only suitable for cases where the testis is studded with numerous softened nodules, and where after some months the thickened walls of the cavity have shown no tendency