326 ABSCESS PERFORATING RECTUM: NECROSIS OF OS SACRUM. In the following case also my prognosis, fortunately for the patient, was falsified. Alfred S—, set. 13, had been perfectly well up to seven years of age, then an abscess formed over the sacrum, which after three weeks broke sponta- neously. A sinus was left at the site of the opening, and fresh abscesses formed in the neighbourhood, leading subsequently to the formation of other sinuses. The child became pale, though he did not lose flesh. He was hut seldom feverish, and had not often to keep his bed. Six yearn after the commencement of the disease I dilated the sinuses, and removed a seques- trum from the lower paid of the os sacrum. The reaction after the opera- tion was comparatively slight. Shortly afterwards the patient had slight diarrhoea, and faecal fluid escaped through the sinuses. Perforation of the rectum must therefore have taken place; anasarca of the legs followed, then ascites and great weakness, with casts and an immense amount of albumin in the urine. No remedy whatever gave any benefit. The debility increased so much that when, at his parents’ wish, he left the hospital, I gave the most unfavourable prognosis. Eight or nine months later the child came hack perfectly recovered; the sinuses had closed, the boy was strong, stout, and seemed in the best of health. The diagnosis of periostitis and caries of the pelvis may, at the outset of the disease, be very difficult, or even impossible. The con- gestive abscesses in this disease often correspond in the direction they take to those connected with the vertebral column or the hip- joint. It is not always possible, even with the aid of a catheter or probe, to discover the part actually affected. The absence of pain in the vertebral column or the hip-joint assists the diagnosis; chronic suppuration in the retro-peritoneal cellular tissue, or deeply situated beneath and between the gluteal muscles, closely simulates chronic suppurative periostitis of the pelvis, and not least in its tedious progress. It is easier to recognise caries of the os sacrum, the symphysis pubis, or the sacro-iliac joint. No age seems to be especially predisposed to chronic inflammations about the pelvis. My tables shew that the disease was met with in patients whose ages varied from one year up to seventy. In two cases the conges- tive abscesses penetrated from the interior of the pelvis into the hip- joint, and in three instances burst into the rectum. I think that chronic abscesses about the pelvis should be allowed to open spon- taneously ; surgically we can do little more than occasionally dilate the sinuses, keep the parts clean, and promote the free escape of pus. If the disease has existed for many months or years there is scarcely any prospect of cure.