370 CASES OE EXCISION OF ELBOW. duration of pyaemia and the fact that I was compelled to resort to resection: A man, set. 56, but very strong, was admitted on account of a lacerated wound of the hand. At first all went on well, the gangrenous parts separated, and the wound began to granulate. Sixteen days after the injury, however, the patient was attacked with diarrhoea; this was controlled by opium, but he lost strength, and had remittent attacks of fever. A month later a painful infiltration was noticed on the inner side of the injured extremity, at which spot an abscess subsequently formed; then the shoulder-joint became affected and painful. The patient had no rigors, but was weak, with marked fever in the evenings; free suppuration occurred from the abscess, which was found to be connected with the shoulder-joint; meanwhile the wound of the hand healed up perfectly. As the suppura- tion seemed to be draining the man’s strength, and all the internal organs were healthy, I determined on resection of the humerus. The removal of the carious bone exercised no check on the disease, and he died of marasmus. The commencement of the pysemia here dated in all probability from the attack of diarrhoea—at all events, gradual decline set in from that time. This was four months before he died, so that we may look on the case as one of chronic pysemia, although many surgeons are unwilling to admit the occurrence of such a disease. Resection of the elbow. In a well-nourished child, set. 14, who had had disease of the elbow for six years, originating without known cause, I partially excised the joint, i.e. I removed with the knife only the carious portions of the trochlea and the olecranon, together with a small part of the condyle of the humerus. The parts healed up, but complete ankylosis followed. This was forcibly broken down under ansesthetics, but considerable reaction invariably followed, and the ankylosis returned as before. I then resected the joint again, removing the end of the humerus subperiosteally, with a satisfactory result. Reproduction of elbow-joint after excision. Leopoldine 0—, ait. 13, an ill-nourislicd child, was admitted with caries of the right elbow-joint, of three years standing. When admitted, she had but recently recovered from an attack of variola, followed by one of typhus* The joint was completely excised; the wound did exceedingly well, and her general condition rapidly improved at first; subsequently, howovcr, cold