439 ANKYLOSIS OF KNEE : OSTEOTOMY. iodide of potassium tlie sores healed up in nine months, and the patient’s health remained good for six years; fresh gummata then formed in the right popliteal space, and elsewhere, which broke after a time and led to deep u lac ration and extensive destruction of the integuments. Further breaking down was at length arrested, but as the part healed up, the knee became contracted to a right angle, beyond which it could not be extended, though it admitted of some flexion. Paralysis of the peroneal nerve was also evident. On more minute examination, it was found that the cicatrix was veiy tough, and connected to the capsule of the joint and the deep vessels and nerves. I tried to flex the leg under an anaesthetic, hut without success. Seeing that incision into the cicatrix and the popliteal space would have been not only dangerous hut useless, I made incisions through the skin, just above the cicatrix, and also on the posterior surface of the thigh. By extending the s incision, I cut right round the cicatrix from above, and dissected up the skin and parity also the fascia. I was then able to extend the leg to an obtuse angle. Extension was effected by means of a weight; the cicatrix softened and yielded gradually, so that within three weeks the leg was straight. The man was supplied with a light splint to keep the limb in good position. After a short time he was able to walk well, without the aid of a stick. Ankylosis of the knee-joint; osteotomy. W. K—, when three years of age, had swelling of both knee-joints with contraction, after an attack of measles. Abscesses, which seemed, however, only to be situated in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, formed above both knees. The pain in the joints gradually disappeared, but the contraction of the limbs persisted. The patient hopped about on his hands and legs like a frog. When admitted, both knees were flexed at an acute angle but by passive movement could be extended to a right angle. Both tibise were displaced backwards to some extent, and the knee-joints covered by deep ulcerations. The child was ill-nourished and pale, and the case was not very promising for treatment. Still, as the parents of the child were very anxious that he should be treated in hospital, I first tried to cure the scrofulous ulceration about the joints by means of various remedies, and at the end of five months, I had so far succeeded that I was able to think of attempting to straighten the legs under chloroform. I was unable, however, to completely straighten either of the limbs. When extended a little beyond a right angle, the contracted posterior ligament and the tension on the scarcely healed cica- trices were the principal obstacles. In addition the flexor muscles were shortened, and I felt that neither brisement force, nor gradual mechanical extension could be of any use. The question now arose as to whether extension of the limb could be effected by any other means. Two operations suggested themselves ; one, to resect so much of the condyle of the femur as would permit the long axis of the tibia to drop into a line with that