229 BETRO-PERITONEAL CELLULITIS. although, the rupture of the spleen found post mortem was only of secondary importance. G. B—, ret. 43, lost his balance and fell down two flights of stairs on to the pavement. He died five days after the injury, evidently from com- mencing suppurative encephalitis, the result of a separation of the lamboid suture, and cerebral injuries. The spleen was found enlarged to thrice its normal size, and partly adherent to the diaphragm. On the upper surface the capsule was tom, and the parenchyma of the organ traversed in its whole thickness by a rent, full of loose blood-clot. From the appearance of the rent, and the small quantity of blood effused, we concluded that this injury might have healed up com- pletely. Retro-peritoneal Inflammation with the Formation of Abscess. These are commonly called psoas abscesses (congestive abscesses arising in connection with disease of the vertebral column are here excluded), but the substance of the psoas muscle is seldom the starting point of these inflammations. In the majority of cases, the pus is formed in the retro-peritoneal cellular tissue in the neigh- bourhood of the pelvis; seldom above this level. (The disease is known in England as retro-peritoneal cellulitis.) The substance of the psoas muscle may become involved in the suppuration, and the periosteum of the pelvis, with the processes or bodies of the vertebrae, be partially eroded; these changes, however, are so slight in cases where the cellular tissue is primarily inflamed •that they can readily be distinguished after death from primary periostitis and ostitis of the spinal column and pelvis. In such inflammations a tolerably good prognosis can be given only when they originate in connection with the puerperal state. The abscesses which arise in this situation from other causes are always serious, and in weakly individuals highly dangerous to life. In the case of a child, who was in a very low condition from multiple periostitis of the extremities, an attack of severe abdominal pain, accompanied .by flatulent distension, occurred. The umbilicus then began to bulge forward, and finally an enormous amount of pus escaped through it. The .patient was taken away, so that I was unable to find out the source of the suppuration.