VESICAL IRRITABILITY. 259 the contractions of the bladder, therefore, the instrument must have been so placed that it was extruded through the urethra—an exceptional piece of good fortune for the patient. Chronic Cystitis and Pyelitis. I have only met with diphtheritic inflammation of the bladder as a secondary affection, and as such consequent on fracture of the spine, ruptured urethra, stricture, or hypertrophy of the prostate. The so-called irritable bladder is, by many authors, thought to be of a neuralgic nature. It is possible that there is such an affection as pure neuralgia of the bladder, but the cases which I have seen, and which correspond accurately to the “irritable bladder” of English authors, were not neuralgic at all; they were due to catarrhal inflammation of the bladder or the pelvis of the kidney, and were characterised usually by strongly acid, highly coloured urine containing a little cloudy mucus, and marked reflex con- traction of the bladder, even when the organ was only moderately full. Spasmodic contraction of the sphincter vesicse was also usually present. In patients thus affected it is often a matter of great difficulty to pass a catheter, for the urethra, near the neck of the bladder, is so sensitive that the contact of the instrument sets up a powerful reflex contraction ; steady and moderate pressure with a large sized instrument will alone enable the surgeon to enter the bladder; nor is the spasm always removed by chloroform. It often happens that the catheter will pass quite easily one day, and on another cannot be got in. I have found opium suppositories and warm baths, the best remedies against this irritable condition, which, at any rate, sometimes may thus be alleviated. It appears to me that this irritability of the bladder is analogous to the spas- modic condition met with in superficial lesions of other mucous membranes, such as blepharo-spasm in kerato-conjunctivitis, or the colicky pains associated with gastric or intestinal catarrh ; again, the tenesmus in fissures or excoriations of the rectum, and the spas- modic cough in many forms of laryngeal and pulmonary catarrh are of the same nature. In all such conditions considerable hypenemia of the mucous membrane is associated with the superficial abrasion of the epithelial surface, or perhaps with some slight excoriation. I cannot say whether a similar condition of the neck or mucous limner