CONTAGION OP ERYSIPELAS. 27 It is difficult in the face of what lias been said to hold by the etiological unity of erysipelas; for the present we must admit that it has a twofold mode of origin. It may commence by the trans- mission of some substance coming from without, ready to set up, and fully capable of itself of setting up, the disease, or by the development of a similar material in connection with certain morbid products. In this respect I hold the same views with regard to the origin of erysipelas as I do to that of diphtheritic inflamma- tions.1 It is decidedly far more common for the latter to spread by contagion, but, under the influence of septic blood poisoning, they may originate independently of contagion. We must confess our position, and acknowledge that our in- formation on the etiology of disease increases very gradually, but it would be wrong did we fail to recognise how much has been achieved by careful work during the course of the last ten years,2 or did we ignore how these questions, as time goes on, are assuming more precise and definite shapes. Statistics showed that the period of the year had no influ- ence on the origin and extension of erysipelas in our hospitals. The disease lasted usually but a very short time, owing probably to the early isolation of the patients. The percentage of women attacked was twice as great as that of the male patients. This fact, however, I do not ascribe to the greater receptivity of the female sex to erysipelas, but rather to the arrangements of my wards in the hospital at Zurich; there, the female wards, and the separation room to which the erysipelas patients were transferred, were all on the ground floor. It is quite possible—notwithstanding that the utmost precautions were taken against such an occurrence—that the contagion was carried on the clothes of the assistants or nurses from one room to the other. Moreover, the walls of ground floor rooms are more inclined to be damp; not that this of itself can produce erysipelas, but if the contagion is in the form of minute, dust-like particles—whether of animal or vegetable nature—it would more readily get attached where the walls arc damp. In certain patients, erysipelas occurred immediately after opera- tion. If the infection were set up at the time of operation, such cases show that erysipelas has no stage of incubation, but that the 1 ‘ Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1870, Nos. 7 and 8. 2 Hds essay on erysipelas is contained in the‘Wien. Ber.’ for 1SC9—7°> published in Berlin, 1872.—[Ed.]