270 NATURE OF GONORRHOEAL STRICTURE. although my teachers had very little good to say for it, I have been most favourably impressed with the method of treatment. I must repeat that, in my opinion, internal urethrotomy and rapid dilata- tion are only means of accelerating the cure; I mean that the operation will not do away with the necessity of subsequent instru- mentation for a long period of time, nor after external urethrotomy can the cure be properly termed “ radical,” that is to say, requiring no further treatment. All gonorrhoeal strictures are the results of peri-urethritis and interstitial contraction of the infiltrated tissue. This infiltration, like a cicatrix of the skin which keeps red and thickened for a long time, may remain unaltered without there being any apparent cause for the persistence of the keloid con- dition. As is well known, the condition is most persistent in cica- trices of the skin after burns. The majority of the simplest cicatrices do not reach a condition of histological stability under twelve months. In scars after burns, many years elapse before the cicatrix becomes white, level, and assumes permanently a condition tending to atrophy. So also, there are strictures which we call callous, and which may remain for years in a keloid condition. Trequently this is due to some purely individual peculiarity, but it is often kept up by a very chronic gleet; perhaps also the retention of some of the gonorrhoeal virus in the tissue constitutes a permanent source of irritation. It takes a very long time to get rid of this tissue by passing instruments. If incisions be made deeply on either side through the stricture, the nutrition of the cicatricial tissue will be so far interfered with, that it will more readily atrophy; but a further effect is brought about. A simple cicatrix replaces the former tissue. Now this new material is much more easily dilated; again its daily stretching does not lead, as a rule, to fresh infiltra- tion, but rather to simple superficial ulcers which heal slowly. The conditions are the same as after tenotomy. The advantage of this operation consists in the substitution of a readily extensile cicatri- cial tissue for an inextensile tendon. To suppose that club foot can be cured simply by tenotomy, is an error; an error,unfortunately, not recognised as it should be by surgeons. Strictures occurring after chancre are troublesome on account of their inextensibility. As a rule they result from indurated chan- cres which are cicatrised over, and probably contain some syphilitic virus. A constant, though mildly irritable condition, is thus kept