295 MALIGNANT (?) TUMOUR OF THE TESTIS. Malignant (?) tumour of the testis. J. B—, ret. 53, had received a blow on the right testis a year previously. Since then the organ had slowly enlarged, and when admitted it was the size of two fists. The growth was removed. It consisted of a tough fibrous capsule the thickness of the finger, containing blood-stained serum. On the inner surface of the cavity were shreds of tissue; traces only of the parenchyma of the testis were found in the capsule. The histological report left it uncertain whether the tumour was a softened carcinoma, an altered extravasa- tion of blood, or both together. A year later the patient was quite well. The following case is remarkable on account of the age of the patient: F. D—, ret. 11 months, was admitted for a tumour of the left testis which had commenced two months previously without known cause. Fluctuation was distinct in parts ; an incision was made and let out a little pus, hut the tumour only partly collapsed. Fungating granulations sprang out of the incision and the inguinal glands became enlarged. The mass was removed and proved to be a medullary cancer. Between i860 and 1876 I met with twenty-six cases of tumours of the testis. No instance of cystic or enchondromatous tumour came under my notice. In examining these growth with the micro- scope I was often in doubt as to whether they were sarcoma or car- cinoma. The peculiar structure of the gland causes most of the growths which originate in it to assume a tabulated, cancer-like alveolar nature. The tissue of these new formations is usually soft. It is often impossible to say whether the new formation originates in the soft, delicate cellular tissue of the organ, from the endothelium of the lymph sinuses contained therein, or from the epithelial cells of the seminal ducts. The rapid fatty degeneration and softening and the haemorrhagic infarcts occurring in these new formations render the examination still more difficult. It is most desirable that this subject should be thoroughly worked out.