75 RESULTS OE PHOSPHORUS PERIOSTITIS. ostitis and necrosis. Such changes are by no means confined to this disease alone; many affections of the periosteum, of the bones and of the joints run their course, oscillating in the same way between new formation and degeneration, between plastic pro- duction and ulcerative and necrotic breaking down. If the local process be allowed to progress without interference, the results will vary exceedingly. If all goes on favourably, from time to time single necrosed portions may be removed, and an invaginating layer of bone will be left to serve instead of the original bone. In my judgment a purely expectant treatment does not yield the best results. I saw one case where, under such treat- ment, half the jaw came away through the cheek as a sequestrum, and the new formation was ultimately very inconsiderable, being in great part destroyed by ulceration and suppuration; moreover, very ugly scars were left on the cheek. It will usually be observed that the disease commences on one side, either on the lower or upper jaw. If the patients remain under observation long enough, the process may be seen to gradually extend over half the jaw, or may even affect the entire bone. The extension either progresses by occasional acute attacks, or spreads gradually; no antiphlogistic treatment will either hinder or check it. Cases like these lead one naturally to suppose that if the part first affected had been promptly removed the entire half of the jaw need not have been lost. Acting on this idea in three cases, I resected the diseased portion of the jaw in its continuity; I made my incision externally, broke away the osteophytic layers, and preserved the periosteum. In one case only, however, was the wished-for success obtained, that is to say, the process stopped, and the continuity of the jaw was completely restored by abundant bone formation. In other cases I forcibly extracted the sequestrum through the mouth, which may often be done without breaking the newly-formed bone; on the whole, the results were not bad. The proper opportunity for forcible extrac- tion of the diseased and half necrosed jaw is when the separation of the invaginated bone is sufficiently far advanced and as thick as possible. If the pain, however, be very severe, and the patient much reduced, I remove the bone at an earlier period. It is very interesting to see how rapidly, at times, the shell of bone left be- comes a solid mass. In two very successful cases of recovery after total necrosis of the lower jaw, a new bone was formed resembling that of old edentulous persons.