436 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF KNEE-JOINT. suppuration, and true dislocation had taken place though no caries existed. In order to facilitate extension by moans of weights, I divided some tense bands of tbe fascia lata subcutaneously. Unluckily this was followed by rather tedious suppuration, and when the wound had healed up, an eight- pound weight had no effect, although good counter-extension was kept up on the pelvis. The patient was then placed thoroughly under the influence of chloroform, and I tried to effect reduction by divers manipulations ; however, my efforts met with no success ; no improvement followed the use of Schneider-Mennel’s apparatus. The head of the bone appeared the chief obstacle to reduction, and I therefore excised it, by an incision made in the perineum; I found no difficulty in the operation. The cartilaginous covering of the bone was almost entire, and over the head of the femur was a distinct capsule. Even after sawing through the neck of the femur the displacement could not be completely reduced. My only hope was, that the cicatricial tissues around might possibly become softer and more yielding from the suppuration, and that the position would then improve ; this hope, however, was not fulfilled, for osteomyelitis of the femur followed, and the patient died of septo-pysemia twelve days after the operation. Examination of the part showed that extensive contraction of the fascia lata had formed the obstacle to reduction. Chronic Inflammation of the Knee-joint. A table of seventy-seven cases will be found in the f Zurich. Bericht/ pp. 516 et. seq. Excision was practised twice only; in one of these the patient died of marasmus a long time after the operation; in this case it was found necessary to amputate the leg, six months after the excision, as the suppuration continued, and the fungous softening ostitis went on in the excised bone. The other patient died of meningitis two months after the operation. I am inclined to think that the indications for this operation should be limited; it seems to me that almost all the cases of tumor albus of the knee which do not recover by the other methods of treatment, are incurable from constitutional causes. If it could be proved by a large collection of cases that more patients with tumor albus recover after excision of the knee than when the operation is not performed, I should excise more frequently. The question is an exceedingly hard one to answer, and it appears to me that on this subject we are still on the threshold of inquiry.