464 TREATMENT OF TALIPES. tendons or fasciae. In a case that came under my care at Zurich (described in thec Archiv fur Klin./ Bd. 1, p. 488), and in which I applied a plaster bandage directly after tenotomy and redressement fores, deep gangrene of the foot took place. Now, I always allow the wound of the tenotomy to heal before I apply the bandage. After the tenotomy I always now treat talipes in the following manner, with the ultimate results of which, as well as with the rapidity of cure I am well satisfied.1 “ Four or five days after the division of the Achilles tendon, when the little wound has healed up, the foot is seized in the hand and brought as straight as possible, care of course being taken not to employ too much force. At the same time, while the leg is held firmly below the knee by a second person, a plaster-of-Paris bandage is quickly applied over a moderate amount of wadding. This bandage reaches from the toes up to the middle of the leg. The padding must not be too thin at the bend of the foot, or else as it is forced into position the bandage might press the part. While the plaster is still soft the knee of the affected side is bent to a right angle and the flat of one hand is then placed over the sole, and the other on the lower end of the thigh, so that the palms of the two hands face each other. If now the sole of the deformed foot is pressed upwards and outwards with one hand, and at the same time pressure is exerted on the knee with the other in the line of the long axis of the leg, the foot may be brought as near to the normal position as it was before the application of the bandage; the resistance is limited to the muscular action of the affected limb. The foot is then kept in its new position by steady pressure of the hands for a few minutes, till the increasing warmth of the bandage proves the plaster to be sufficiently hard. This method of treatment can be employed on children under two years of age without the use of any anaesthetic, and without more assistance than that of the person wdio holds the child. The pressure ought only to be applied to the sole as the foot is forced into position. If the whole foot be seized in the hand and the “redressement” effected while the bandages are on, the pres- sure of the fingers will cause the inner surface of the plaster to project and may lead to injurious pressure on the dorsum of the 1 The following section on the treatment of club foot in adults is trans- lated from a paper by Dr, Gersuny, of Vienna, in the ‘ Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1878, Bd. xxx, p. 822, and refers to Professor Billroth’s practice.—[Ed.]