268 GONORRHOEAL STRICTURE. the urethra depends largely on nervous causes. I have no doubt that the feverish attacks, which are real and immediately dependent on the instrumentation, are due to swelling and transient inflamina- tion of the urethra. Thirteen cases of traumatic stricture in the perineal part of the urethra came under my care at Zurich and Vienna. Seven were cured by dilatation; five died after external urethrotomy which was rendered necessary by the almost complete impermeability of the stricture, aud the existence of numerous fistulous openings. In all these cases a high degree of cystitis was found, greatly dilated and tortuous ureters, pyo-nephrosis and atrophy of the substance of the kidney. All these patients were operated on at Zurich, at a period when I had not learned to recognise sufficiently the injurious influence that ammoniacal fermentation of the urine in the bladder exerts on operation cases. Ordinary Gonorrhceal Stricture. The majority of these patients were treated by gradual dilatation -and discharged as soon as the strictures were sufficiently enlarged. The patients were always advised to continue the use of instru- ments. In six cases 1 performed rapid dilatation of the stricture with Thompson’s instrument. The cure was speedily effected in all. In none of these patients was the stricture very tight nor were there any fistulse. The reaction after the operation was usually very trifling. I am unable to say whether the cure was permanent in ■any of these cases.1 In three instances internal urethrotomy was performed with Linhart’s instrument. The immediate result was good. On one patient I operated twice, the second time after an interval of a year. Evidently on the first occasion the instrument had not penetrated deeply enough. Recovery seems to have been .permanent after the second operation. There is no doubt that a large number of moderately severe stric- tures can be permanently cured with comparative rapidity and without any great amount of pain, by the use of bougies; patience 1 Two are recorded in the ‘ Wien. Med. Woch.,’ iS6n, p. 790.