ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT OE WOUNDS. 3 vinced myself that the enthusiastic expressions of some members of our profession, on the subject of the new method of dressing wounds, are not to be taken too literally; “not a single drop of pus forms under these dressings/’ “no surgical fever—only slight aseptic rise of temperature,” or again, “every resection wound heals by first intention; ” or, “ pyaemia in future will be relegated to the records of history.” Such assurances—especially by word of mouth—may often be heard. For my part, I neither allow myself to endorse such sentiments, nor to use such expres- sions ; nor am I unduly depressed if these wonders fail to occur. In expressions such [as these, there is rather more imagination mixed up with the truth, than is altogether good. Experience will gradually show what is due to fancy, and what to actual observation. Without venturing to assert that I have come to any final con- clusion on the subject of the advantages of antiseptic dressings over other methods of treating wounds, I think I may say that practically it is an admirable method, and I shall always recommend it as safe and reliable, until some better mode of treatment has been devised. It is especially suitable for recent wounds, and for operations on tissues which are not suppurating. Cases where a septic condition exists before the operation, must be again dis- tinguished. Thus, I amputated the thigh, for gangrene of the leg following a gun-shot wound of the popliteal artery ; no part of the wound healed by first intention, and death followed a fortnight later, from sepsis. Here, the antiseptic method cannot be held answerable, nor does it exert any material influence on such cases. Further, cases of cold abscess or caries must be considered from a different point of view. The advice sounds very beautiful and simple to extirpate all suppurating parts, as if they were particles of cancer, then to disinfect the wound with suitable applications, and treat them as if they were recent. Every surgeon who has attempted to follow such directions, knows the difficulty, nay the impossibility of carrying them out in many instances. As far as I can gather from Volkmann’s ‘Bericht/ and from those who have frequented his clinic, he amputates far more often for caries of the joints than I do ; he has probably less opportunity, therefore, than I have had of seeing the results of resections and evidements. There are special reasons for this ; among others, the people here are very loth to submit to amputation. During the last ten years, I have felt less disposed towards conservative operations for caries, and