11ESULTS OBTAINED BY NEURECTOMY. 69 days; the wound usually heals rapidly by first intention, and the mark of the operation is scarcely visible after a short time. This proceeding I have adopted in six cases. Two were entirely suc- cessful; in two others the attacks had completely ceased when the patients were discharged, and no subsequent information could be obtained about them. In one instance the attacks were entirely absent for six months, and then returned with their former severity. In one case, after complete relief for three months, the attacks recurred with diminished intensity. In one patient, after a futile resection of the infraorbital nerve, I cut away the painful parts of the alveolar process. The attacks ceased completely for seven months, and then came back as before. Much the same result followed extirpation of the stump of the second nerve at the foramen rotuiulum and neurectomy of the mental nerve. In five cases I performed neurectomy of the mandibular nerve, i. e. a portion of the nerve, about one centimetre in length, was resected above the dental canal. This method has been described by Dr. Menzel in the f Arch. f. kl. Chirurgie/ Bd. xiii, p. 668. The operation is not without risk, but it seems to be beneficial. In one case the patient was completely free from his attacks for a year; then mild recurrence took place, which, however, did not seriously inconvenience him. One of the patients operated on died from diphtheritic inflamma- tion oi the wound and ostitis of the lower jaw, with septic poison- ing. This seems to have been caused by the retained secretions in the wound, which became closed by swelling of the periosteum of the gum. Profiting by the experience of this case, I always subse- quently left a small drainage tube in the wound. After this operation there is at times some difficulty in opening the mouth for the first two or three months, but later on this com- pletely disappears. I must not forget to mention that I saw a patient in whom the attacks had ceased for five years after a neu- lectoiny of the mandibular nerve, performed by Schuh. Severe recuirence then followed, on which the constant current had only for a short time any beneficial effect. Io sum up, I have performed neuro-discission in seven cases, neurectomy in fifteen ; in two I have partially resected the upper jaw, and in one instance the carotid artery was ligatured. Taking all the results together they seem certainly unfavourable. It may be