REMARKS ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 41 as these. I have met with cases where I was very doubtful whether I had to deal with delirium arising from drink, or from septicaemia. In all the cases of severe injuries of the skull which I examined post mortem at Zurich, I found only coagulated blood diffused over the dura mater ; where there was deep circumscribed depression, the dura mater was invariably torn. In most of the cases of fissure and fracture of the skull, contusion of the brain substance existed at the same time, so that I never regretted that I did not trephine. With regard to the removal of splinters of bone, the same rules are to be followed as in compound fractures generally. Ecchymosis of the eyelids and bleeding from the ear and nose, combined with a drowsy, heavy condition, are the surest signs of fractured base that I kuow. Contusion of the brain is so frequently associated with depressed fracture of the skull that the diagnosis of the one condition mostly coincides with that of the other. We are only justified in diagnosing fracture of the petrous bon# from paralysis of the facial nerve, when deafness of the affected side is present at the same time. Paralysis of the portio dura, as I have observed, may be manifested when the upper or lower part of the hemispheres is contused. I employ ice-bladders to the head in all severe cases of injury to that part. Venesection I find of service only at the commencement of meningitis. In the later stages of meningitis and encephalitis it appears to me to be injurious and to expedite collapse, as it does also in septicaemia. The same applies to the exhibition of aperients. Of fifty-nine cases of severe head injury met with in Vienna, in which brain symptoms began at the time of the injury and continued up to death, or lasted for days and weeks after general recovery, twenty-three were discharged from hospital. But some paresis, as I have said, remained in many of these. In one of these cases epileptiform convulsions came on four years after the injuries, without any intermediate illness, and proved rapidly fatal. Post mortem : superficial softening of the base of the brain was discovered, corre- sponding to the spot where the original extravasation must have been. Looking at this case, I much regret that I am unable to give any particulars of the subsequent history of the others who recovered; I greatly fear that the same thing has taken place in othei cases also. At present nothing can be positively stated as to how long this sword of Damocles—viz. disease of the brain