49 DISTENSION OF THE FRONTAL SINUS. previously lie had observed swelling over the right inner canthus, followed a •few months later by considerable discharge of pus through the right nostril. This lasted for a time, and then the swelling was opened from the outside by v. Arlt, a quantity of pus being let out. A fistula was left, which was usually kept closed by a plug of charpie. On the removal of this, free discharge always followed. I cut away the anterior wall of the distended sinus, united the scalp wound over it, and left in a small drainage tube. The pain and swelling completely disappeared after this proceeding, but five years and a half later there was still some discharge through the fistula. M. A—, a weekly child, set. n, was brought to me with distension of the right frontal sinus, and some exophthalmus, which had existed for six months. On making an opening the sinus was found to be filled with exuberant granu- lations. These I removed with a raspatory. He recovered slowly, and after some months the fistula closed. Five years later I heard that the sinus had not reopened, but the exophthalmus was unaltered. In the case of M—, set. 38, distension of the left frontal sinus, accompanied ■by severe headache, had commenced sixteen months previously, without known cause. Some weeks after its formation the swelling broke under the left supraorbital notch, and pus was discharged. The resulting fistula closed at times, but then swelling and pain came on, which were relieved when the dis- charge again took place. With the probe I detected a sequestrum lying loose in the cavity; I dilated the fistula and extracted the loose piece. The suppu- ration then decreased considerably, but a fortnight later the fistula had not closed. She then left, and further particulars of the case are wanting. A male, set. 56, had received, three mouths previously, a wound at the root of the nose, from a bull’s horn. The wound was sewn up and soon healed, but a knob of granulations formed at the right inner canthus, which became moist and prominent from time to time. After removal of the little outgrowth, we found an opening leading into the right frontal cavity. The fistula was dilated, and a small drainage tube inserted. Although the tube was worn for a long time, and only finally taken out when the secretion had ceased, the •fistula was still discharging, about eighteen months after. A male, set. 78, had been troubled for six months with a swelling at the inner part of the upper right lid, which at first was hard aud painful. After a short time it broke spontaneously, and discharged pus. As the purulent discharge from the fistula persisted, I cut away the anterior wall of the right frontal sinus, aud stuffed the cavity with charpie, soaked in acetate of alum. The discharge, thereupon, gradually ceased, and the fistula completely closed up after some months. Two years after he was well and free from pain. Jlr/maloma of the f rontal sinus. K. S , a;t. 7, was operated on December, 1870. excision of the anterior wall. The eye was lost. Healing followed after 4