476 AMPUTATIONS IN SEPTIC PATIENTS. EXCISIONS. will reason thus: “ When I can no longer work, I must beg; if I die my wife may support my children for a time and then marry again, but she cannot support me and the children for the rest of my life.” But with many, as they feel themselves getting worse daily, the desire to live and the dread of death overcome their deliberate reasoning, and they eagerly clutch at the suggestion of amputation, which before they would not hear of. What should the surgeon do in such a case P His scientific knowledge says to him, “ Too late;” but can he say the same to the patient? He may think so, write so, but he will not often do it. Who could say to himself, unless the patient was already in articulo mortis. It is impossible for this man to recover ? ” Not I; for I have seen pysemic patients pull through with abscesses in the lungs and cellular tissue, suppuration of the joints, and marked icterus. Not often it is true, but it happens so once in a way. We cannot estimate with any certainty the degree of septic poisoning which any individual person can get over. Thus I have often amputated in such cases where I felt that it would be a marvel if the patient recovered. Those who wish for good statistics of amputations would not operate on septic patients, II. Double amputations.—Five cases, 3 recoveries and 2 deaths. III. Amputations on patients with other severe injuries.—Two cases, both died. The separation made by Yolkmann between the above two groups is as important as their distinction from Group I. Summarising the list for sixteen years, I find that 315 amputa- tions were performed on 305 patients. The mortality amounted to 45 per cent. Excisions of Joints. These cases are tabulated as follows : (A.) Uncomplicated Cases.—I. Cases in which the patients when discharged had recovered, or had onlg small sinuses, or in which death took place after the operation, owing to some accidental diseases of wounds.—Statistics of this class will be found in the ‘Wien. Bericht/ 1876, p. 627, where 90 cases are tabulated :—37 are excisions of the elbow, 8 of the wrist, 9 of the shoulder. In the lower extremity, 1 a of the hip, 12 of the knee, and 12 of the ankle. The other classes and groups are identical with those adopted in the tables of amputations. 46 osteotomies are recorded, 6 of which ended fatally.