FIRST CASE OF REMOVAL OF PYLORUS. 503 teen litres of water were employed to wash out tho organ. The temperature of the operating room was kept at 20° C. The operation was performed on the 29th January, 1881. An incision, eleven centimetres long, was carried from right to left over the tumour, above the umbilicus (p. 497, fig. 27, a). On dividing the peritoneum the tumour was found to occupy the pyloric region and the adjoining part of the anterior and posterior walls of the stomach. It proved to be larger than the examination had led us to suspect. The growth was now drawn somewhat forward through the abdominal incision. By means of a cloth, prolapse of the intestines was readily prevented. Double ligatures were carried through separate small portions of the lesser omen- tum, winch was then divided between the ligatures, above its connection with the tumour. Five fine silk ligatures were left on the small, and six on the great omentum, which was divided in the same way. The great omentum and the transverse colon were adherent to the greater curvature and thickened. A lymphatic gland, the size of a hazel nut, and two small nodules, which felt hard, were removed, together with the altered gastro-colic ligament. Any parts which to the eye or the touch gave suspicion of cancerous changes were removed, but it was quite possible that in the portion of the omentum which was connected to the transverse colon some microscopic nodules were left behind. The pyloric end of the stomach was in this way completely isolated; cloths were laid behind the stomach, and the wound in the abdominal walls was protected by sponges from any escape of the gastric contents. The duo- denum was now cut into from above, and the stomach obliquely divided, as shown in Plate III, fig. 1. Nothing escaped from the stomach, which was completely empty. The temporary sutures were now inserted in the lesser curvature and the corresponding part of the duodenum, as shown in fig. 1, l. Next, the stomach and the duodenum were completely cut through and the pyloric tumour removed. Four vessels on the stomach required ligature. The lumen of the stomach was partly closed from below upwards with twenty-one sutures, some deep, some superficial. The union of the opening left at the lesser curvature of the stomach with the duodenum was completed by means of thirty-three silk sutures. All the sutures were cut short and left in the cavity of the abdomen. As already mentioned, the wall of the duodenum could not stand the strain exercised on it by the temporary sutures, and the punctures became enlarged to the size of a lentil, rendering more superficial sutures necessary. The stomach was now returned into the abdominal cavity, its surface having been sponged over with a 2 per cent, solution of carbolic acid. Finally the abdominal wound was closed. No drainage tubes were inserted, nor was the spray employed during the operation. Carbolic dressings were applied. The opera- tion lasted one hour and a half. The size and shape of the tumour can be gathered from Plates I and II. The part removed mea- sured 14 centimetres (5J inches), along the lower, and 10 centi- metres (4 inches) along the upper border. The incisions had been carried 2 centimetres beyond the limits of the disease on either side. The pyloric opening was so narrowed that a probe