417 SUBACUTE OSTEOMYELITIS AND OSTITIS. the tibia healed after the separation of a portion of bone. When he was admitted the only sinuses open were in the thighs. On the right side a sequestrum and an old drainage tube was removed ; on the left side only a drainage tube. The sinuses closed up soundly and the patient was discharged in a month. In the next case, the osteomyelitis was of a subacute character. It was found necessary to amputate at the hip-joint, and the patient did not survive the operation. Franz T—, set. 17, had a fall from a horse three years before I saw him, and his left knee became swollen and painful. He kept his bed for a month, and all the pain ceased. He then was put to a locksmith’s trade, and had to work the bellows with his left leg. Eight days before admission he was soiled with rather sudden, severe pain in the left leg, and symptoms of sub- acute osteomyelitis, principally in the lower half of the left femur, soon after manifested themselves. At the end of three weeks fluctuation was sufficiently distinct for me to make a puncture with a fine knife. A large quantity of pus escaped which was free from smell. The patient was much relieved. Subsequently the suppuration extended into the deeper parts, and numerous fresh incisions were found necessary. A large extent of the hone lay bare ; the amount of suppuration became prodigious, and although the patient had but little fever, his strength sank so rapidly that on the ninety- eighth day of the disease, I decided to amputate at the hip-joint. Shortly before the operation he was ordered a beef steak and some wine. Every pre- caution was taken to guard against loss of blood. The patient was only slightly anaesthetised; the pulse could only be felt in the carotid artery. I began by ligaturing the femoral artery ; then encircling the thigh close below the trochanter with the galvano-caustic loop, I cut through the soft parts down to the bone. Absolutely no blood was lost. I had made a longi- tudinal incision above the trochanter, and was preparing to separate the bone when the patient became suddenly collapsed and died. The following case may be distinguished from the two preceding examples of osteomyelitis, inasmuch as the bones were already altered by chronic disease. k- , set. 22. When a child, he suffered from inflammation in the right knee which left the joint contracted. The deformity was gradually cured by repeated forcible extension. Fourteen days before admission he had pains in the right femur which rapidly grew worse. Subacute ostitis developed, and an abscess formed over the left side, which was opened and drained. A tolerably large extent of bone including almost the entire circumforence lay exposed. The suppuration lasted a long time, but no necrosis followed ; the- soft parts again sank back on the bone, and the abscess closed completely. In about three months the patient had recovered with a perfectly useful limb. 27