377 CASES OE ANEURISM. the injury, and during the next twenty-four hours the swelling extended to the hand and upper arm. On his admission, the entire upper extremity was much swollen, from the fingers to the axilla ; the upper arm was rigid, cedematous and of a yellowish colour. The hand and the flexor aspect of the forearm were exceedingly swollen and tense; sensation was partly lost in the hand, and completely absent in the thumb. About the middle of the forearm, on the flexor aspect, was an irregular gaping wound an inch in length, from which coagnla protruded. The haemorrhage occurred again during examination. While an assistant compressed the brachial artery, I passed my finger through the wound into the aneurismal sac, and laid open, with a probe-pointed bistoury, all the soft parts, up to the end of the sac, i.e. to a little above the elbow-joint. The superficial wall of the cavity was composed of the skin and the fascia. At the bend of the elbow, the median vein was cut through, and required ligature at both ends. On turning out all the coagula, the radial artery was seen completely torn through about its centre, and lying hare, as if it had been dissected out. Considering that this vessel had been tom fifteen days previously, and was so extensively exposed, I was unwilling to trust to a double ligature, and therefore secured the brachial artery at the upper angle of the wound, about half an inch above its bifurcation; hsemorrhage, however, still occurred from the radial artery, and I was compelled therefore to tie it at the point of injury. No further bleeding took place ; within a few hours, the swelling of the hand and forearm materially diminished, and a day or two later movement and sensation returned in the fingers. The man recovered in fifteen days. Aneurism of the radial artery. A woman, set. 29, was admitted, who six weeks previously had received a wound on the flexor aspect of the forearm, close to the wrist. The wound soon healed up, hut a few days before admission, swelling occurred about the cicatrix, which eventually gave way, and severe hsemorrhage occurred. Antyllus’s operation was performed, and the patient recovered. An exactly similar case occurred in a boy, set. 16, in whom a pulsating tumour formed in the cicatrix, four weeks after the injury.1 Clonic spasm of the muscles of the shoulder-joint. Heinrich K , set. 8 ; four weeks previously, without any known reason, he had noticed a kind of throbbing and beating sensation in the right shouldei. The outer border and articular portion of the scapula, were spas- 1 Some remarks on the treatment, etc., of aneurism will be found below in the chapter on the lower extremity. [Ed.]