23 EXTENSION OF EEYSIPELAS. latiug wounds in all kinds of different stages; or old sinuses of various kinds. If such had been our observation, the opinion that the infection was from without, would gain more and more point ; we should naturally tend more to the supposition that there was but one etiological cause for erysipelas, for such a view would be more simple and satisfactory. Where the erysipelas attacked a wound beneath which decomposing blood and secretion had been pent up, we should not be able to ascribe the causation of the disease to these retained fluids. We should be forced to conclude that in such cases the specific poison of erysi- pelas had been introduced into the wound by the instruments or sponges, or inoculated by the hands of the surgeon himself. Such a hypothesis may be accepted even by those who hold, in all other respects, that the rule is for erysipelas to spread by con- tagion and infection. We may add that it is an exceedingly rare thing for true erysipelas to arise from the retention of decomposed blood and secretion; usually under such conditions phlegmonous dermatitis is set up. If by true erysipelas we mean lymphangitis, something still further may be added; the phlogogenous1 poison can be pressed further and further in all directions where the tension of the tissues and fascia offers no resistance, but it would not easilv find its way into the lymph vessels (as is shown by artificial injection into the subcutaneous cellular tissue), for the cellular tissue has no lymph capillaries. If the poisonous material finds its way into the branches of the subcutaneous lymphatics, it must flow on in a centri- petal direction, for the valves will prevent any back flow into the lymphatic network of the cutis. Lymphangitis can therefore very well be associated with phlegmonous inflammation, but erysipelas not so readily. If, on the other hand, the inflammation of the cutis is the primary affection, the phlogogenous poison will very readily flow off through the lymphatic vessels, explaining the frequent association of subcutaneous lymphangitis with erysipelas. From the lymphatics it penetrates into the cellular tissue, and thus becomes combined with phlegmonous inflammation. This appears to be the most common process of extension. If the excessive swelling of the subcutaneous cellular tissue compresses the branches of the lymphatics and veins, and obstructs the flow, the irritating material spreads in the superficial vascular network along the surface of the 1 Sec Billroth’s c Surg. Path.,’ op. jam. cit., pp. 89, go, for explanation of this term.