344 FRACTURE OF HUMERUS. pad with Dessault’s bandage, Briinninghausen’s strap, and other apparatus, and show them these forms of bandage in order that they may employ them in their private practice and avoid the charge of neglect. At the same time I always take the oppor- tunity of pointing out to them that these bandages are practically ineffective. If they are to be of any use the patients must be kept lying for at least a fortnight, and the bandage must be reapplied very often. It is not very often possible to induce these patients to lie still in bed, and in the case of restless children it is least of all practicable. As to the success of the treatment we may easily deceive ourselves. The amount of callus appears to be very large, when it surrounds the displaced ends of a fractured clavicle. Ultimately it completely disappears, and then there is but little to be seen or felt. This, however, is not due to the surgeon or the bandage, but is brought about spontaneously. It is well known that fracture of the clavicle, though united in a faulty posi- tion, does not lead to any loss of function. Fracture of the Surgical Neck, of the Humerus. In treating this injury, I have employed divers apparatus and appliances which have been recommended in order to correct the displacement. My best results were obtained by constant exten- sion by weights and Gussenbauer’s apparatus (described in the f Wien. Med. Woch./ 1874, No. 41). By means of this appa- ratus constant extension is kept up, and the patient is able to be up and about. If any displacement results the form of the shoulder is very much disfigured. I have never seen any functional loss from the oblique union of these fractures. Fractures about the Lower End of the Humerus. All these cases were treated (at Zurich) by plaster bandages, applied as early as possible. The arm was kept in an extended or flexed position as seemed best for the dislocation. Speaking gene- rally, the shape of the elbow-joint and the position of the fractured articular ends can be better preserved when the arm is put up iu the extended position, but this rule is not without exception; if