116 CASES OF SARCOMA OP THE ORBIT. very few cases were the patients free from recurrence for any number of years. Somewhat larger is the number of those in whom after operation on the tongue, recurrence does not take place locally, but in the lymphatic glands. This happened in about one third of my cases; in two-thirds of the cases recurrence took place in the neighbourhood of the cicatrix and in the lymphatic glands a few months after recovery from the operation. Cancer of the tongue is a remarkably common affection iu Vienna. Small-celled granulation sarcoma and myxosarcoma of the orbit. J. E—, ret. 55, a stout, strong man, had noticed six years previously that his right eye was becoming prominent. On admission, the exophthalmus was excessive. The tumour moved uniformly and equally with the eye, but the movements to the right side were much more limited than to the left. The right cornea was softened and completely destroyed; the left eyeball intact. Prom the nature of the movement an intraocular tumour was diagnosed; the whole contents of the right orbit were removed, including the periosteum. Close to the foramen opticum the bone was so thin and soft that we had to proceed with the greatest caution; it was doubtful, therefore, whether the extirpation was complete. The tumour lay between the eyeball and the muscles, completely surrounding the former hut without growing into it. Eecovexy followed. At the bottom of the orbit granulations could be seen, but so far as could be made out there was no recurrence when he was dis- charged. Eight months later we heard that the tumour had recurred in the orbit, hut it seems probable that this was only a little hypertrophy of the cicatrix, for a year and a half after he wrote that he was in good health, and able to follow his profession as a teacher and an organist. The case shows that, notwithstanding the apparently unfavourable conditions of tumours of this nature, they can be extirpated success- fully; without operation death must soon undoubtedly have occurred. Unfortunately successes like these are only too rare. Psammon-sarcoma (Virchow) of the orbit. S. B—, set. 16. Eight years previously exophthalmus had been first noticed, and the vision shortly afterwards became impaired. The tumour, which deve- loped gradually, gave no pain. On admission a growth of the size of the fist projected from the right orbit, and the eyelids were increased to nearly double their natural size; still, they could be completely shut and opened. An immovable atrophied bulb was seen on separating the eyelids. The orbits