36 CASES OP HEAD INJURY WITH LATE CEREBRAL SYMPTOMS. sealp and in the right transverse sinus; the other sinuses wore free from thrombus. At the apex of the left anterior lobe of the brain, a cavity the size of a walnut, filled with rust-coloured pulpy matter; on the under surface of the right hemisphere of the cerebellum, a superficial softened patch the size of a shilling. Some softening on the lower surface of the right posterior cerebral lobe. In none of the cases which came under my care in the Ziirich Hospital was there discharge of cerebro-spinal fluid from the nose or ears, or hernia cerebri. Three cases of head injury with late cerebral symptoms. K. R—, rnt. 32, was so beaten about the head with a hatchet and a knife, that the scalp was regularly cut to pieces. In many places the periosteum was torn from the bone. No cerebral symptoms after the slight temporary loss of consciousness had passed of. Profuse suppuration followed, but, with the exception of a spot the size of a florin where the left parietal bone was exposed, the scalp united over the skull. The patient had severe fever for sixteen days; the temperature being seldom below 390. From the sixteenth to the twenty-fifth day some secondary fever. Convalescence was unsatis- factory though no special symptoms could be noticed. The patient continued in an apathetic state. On the twenty-fifth day she became again very feverish with severe headache. This was followed a few days later by partial loss of consciousness, so that she would hardly respond to questions. The faces and urine passed involuntarily. As the exposed bone was seen at one spot to be infiltrated with pus, I suspected the presence of pus beneath. I therefore removed some bone with the chisel, but finding only fluid blood in the deeper part of the skull, I abstained from opening the cranial cavity. Death took place on the thirty-fifth day after the injury. No symptoms of paralysis throughout. Post mortem : a portion of the upper part of the frontal bone the size of a florin, dull white, partly necrosed. The dura mater on the upper part of the left hemisphere studded with greyish-red granulations, the size of hemp-seeds. The brain—especially the anterior half of the left hemisphere— swollen and fluctuating; in this hemisphere an abscess, containing several ounces of very foul pus, which had opened into the left ventricle ; the abscess cavity surrounded by a layer of greenish-coloured granulations half a line in thickness. If I had adopted bolder measures in this case, and trephined through the bone, I must have come down on the abscess, the existence of which I suspected. It is doubtful, however, consider- ing the large collection of pus, whether such a proceeding would have saved the patient’s life. M. D—, set. 71, fell down stairs while drunk. A large flap of the scalp