51 PE El OSTITIS OF JAW SUPPURATION OF ANTRUM. of Bellocq’s tube. No return of the haemorrhage after removal of the plugs five days later. A case of malignant carbuncular infiltration of the nose and forehead, was met with in a young man, who had probably had typhus recently. He had severe cerebral symptoms. The disease terminated fatally on the sixteenth day after the redness and pain was first observed. Three weeks before this disease was noticed he had been laid up with much abdominal pain. Post mortem : we found purulent meningitis on the under surface of the anterior lobe of the brain, superficial softening of the grey matter, and metastatic abscesses in the lungs. Some cicatrising ulcers were found in the intestine, close above the ilio-csecal valve. Periostitis. Twenty-three cases of subacute periostisis were under observa- tion, all of which originated from carious teeth; most of these led to the formation of large abscesses which, in spite of incisions made internally, frequently broke also externally. None of these were followed by necrosis. The hone is seldom found exposed after such abscesses have been opened. I think that they originate in most cases in the loose cellular tissue of the outer layer of the periosteum,1 starting from the local infection caused by the carious teeth; the ichorous discharge extends outwards from the sockets of the teeth, first in the alveoli, then through the bone (by means of the lymphatics?) to the periosteum of the jaw; here then inflam- mation is set up; the extensive oedema and the pain, the latter being frequently severe, give rise to much distress. Suppuration in the antrum. Iu a man aet. 40. The purulent discharge had existed for three years. The antrum was freely laid open through the alveolar process, and a piece of laminaria was discovered in its cavity. Repeated attempts had been made a year before to dilate the sinus with laminaria tents; no doubt the frag- ment was broken off at the time, and remained unnoticed ever since. A drainage-tube was kept for a long time in the opening. In spite of careful washing out of the cavity the suppuration, two years later, had not completely ceased, although no sequestrum or caries could be discovered in the antrum ; the swelling and pain, however, subsided. The other case was that of a man set. 30, who for some months, had had dull pain in the right upper jaw. Eight months previously pus came through an opening which formed in the canine fossa. The opening into the antrum 1 See Appendix II, infra.