491 CARBOLIC-ACID POISONING- : SHOCK. others far more often on this ground than for carboluria or vomiting. Phenol may produce carboluria or eczema as well as the ordinary carbolic acid, but it is less apt to do so. Oue other circumstance may partly account for the severity of the cases reported from the Continent. German surgeons believe little in “shock,” and after antiseptic amputations, for instance, are disposed to ascribe to the effects of the carbolic acid deaths which surgeons in this country would set down usually to the former cause.1 Without entering into any discussion on the point, it may be noted, if this view be accurate and “ shock ” a condi- tion which should not be recognised, then we should expect to find fewer deaths recorded after grave operations previous to the introduction of car- bolic acid. Such, however, judging from the tables of amputations, etc., 'given above, I do not find to be the case. The term “ shock ” as a cause of death may be vague and general, but it affords at least as good an explana- tion as one which, though definite, is of doubtful accuracy in all the cases for which it is held accountable. At a recent meeting of the Clinical Society,2 Mr. Lister adverted to the -great susceptibility of some patients to carbolic acid, and stated that the oil of Eucalyptus globulus, if used properly, was a powerful, reliable,'and unirri- tating antiseptic. Neither in Kuster’s excellent essay, already referred, to, nor in other works on the subject, can any very satisfactory explanation be found of the chemical action of carbolic acid on the urine. Through the kindness of Dr. Johann Mikulicz, I learn that in Professor Billroth’s clinic cases of carbolic-acid poisoning and eczema are now of rare occurrence, nor have any further deaths taken place from the former cause. Carboluria still not uncommonly follows ovariotomy where carbolic acid lias been used, but has not interfered with the success of the operations.3 [Ed.] 1 Some remarks on this point will be found in Langenbeck’s ‘ Arch.,’ xxiii, p. 149, in the course of a paper by Dr. Ernst Kiister, entitled “ Die giftigen Eigenschaften der Carbolsaure bei Chirurgisclier Yerwendung.” The essay contains numerous references to the literature of the subject. See also Mr. Savory’s article “Collapse,” ‘Holmes’s Syst. of Surg.,’ vol. i, p. 768, 2nd ed., which affords an interesting comparison. 2 Reported in the ‘ Lancet,’ May 21st, 1881, No. 21, vol. i. 3 See note at end of Chapter XIV, p. 318, and also Preface.