CUT THEOAT—CLONIC SPASM OF STEENO-MASTOID. 125 up by carious teeth, was the source of disease,, which was un- accompanied by any suppuration of the periosteum proper. These inflammations at times assume a diphtheritic character. It is with the diphtheritic nature of the process that I connect the almost stony hardness of the infiltrated tissues and the severity of the general symptoms; this view is further evidenced by the rapid collapse, great quickness of the pulse, complete suppuration and sloughing of the extensively infiltrated tissue, the slow healing, and tedious convalescence. In many cases these inflammations are parossal, originating in the neighbourhood of the vertebrae, and sometimes, also, they may be set up by acute infection of the deep lymphatic glands. Gut-throat. In one case, where a man had attempted suicide, the wound extended through the thyroid cartilage in such a way that the vocal cords were cut through. Partial necrosis of the cut edges of the cartilage followed, and the vocal cords shrank up completely. Although stenosis was prevented by the early introduction of large tubes, yet no power of speech was recovered. Dr. Gus- senbauer, who gave the utmost attention to this patient, constructed an arti- ficial larynx, which the patient, who was a man of some intelligence, learned to use to such good purpose that he could be distinctly understood at a distance of two rooms. Clonic spasm, of the sterno-mastoid muscle after a gunshot wound. A. H—, set. 42, had received a gunshot wound fourteen years previously; the bullet, which had entered close to the right ala of the nose, had broken off all the back teeth in the upper jaw, and had then been spat out in a flattened-out shape. Numerous necrosed fragments of bone separated subse- quently, and recovery was very tedious. Seven years after the injury spas- modic twitchings commenced in the right stemo-mastoid. At first they occurred but occasionally, then became more frequent, and gradually extended over the whole right half of the face. When I saw the patient the spasms were almost incessant, and affected also, at times, the muscles of the throat During sleep they ceased. The patient had been treated by subcutaneous injections, and every kind of drug supposed to he of use in such cases, but without any benefit. I examined repeatedly to see if I could find any deeply situated foreign body, such as a portion of the bullet, but never succeeded in doing so. At the request of the patient on two occasions I divided the right sterno-mastoid muscle subcutaneously, but no improvement resulted.