G2 NEURALGIA OE FIFTH NERVE—REPEATED OPERATIONS. ing it pretty far back, so as to meet with the posterior dental nerves; the mental nerve was also cut through at its exit from the infra-maxillary canal. The first incision was followed by sharp haemorrhage, which could not be checked until the patient was much exhausted. At the end of May, 1866, I attempted to close the salivary fistula by drawing the stump of the duct into the mouth, and uniting the skin over the opening, but without success. It then occurred to me to place a ligature round the duct and allow the gland to atrophy, but as we know that wounds of the gland substance heal readily after excision of the jaw or removal of tumours, I decided to remove the anterior portion of the gland; the skin wound was united over the gap. About five days subsequently the gland began to swell and, as it increased in size, became highly painful. Pressure was tried without good result; suppuration took place, and the entire gland became converted into a multitude of little abscesses, the last of which did not heal for two months. The patient then left the hospital free from his neuralgia. Por five mouths he continued well; then the old troubles began again in December, 1S66. In January, 1867, he suffered from severe attacks. In April and May of the same year a remarkable improvement took place, but in June the pain returned with its full severity. The attacks of pain now ramified for the most part from the alveolar process of the left superior maxilla over to the nose, the lower eyelid, the ear, and the temple ; thence the pain penetrated deep down into the head. The paroxysms occurred during eating, talking, &c., but never when he kept absolutely quiet. In July, 1867, he returned and be- sought a further operation. The constant current was suggested, but the patient would not hear of any proposal short of operation. Life had become a burden to him. I therefore, in July, 1867, tied the left common carotid artery above the omohyoid. My patient was at that time in his sixty-fourth year; in spite of all his sufferings he was vigorous for his age, cheery, and of indo- mitable bodily and mental energy. A few days after the operation he had slight attacks of pain, which then diminished, and entirely ceased at the end of the first week after the operation. The patient became a new man; he would not remain in bed, and left seventeen days after the operation, although the ligature had not come away. The further history of this case was communicated to me. I learnt that recurrence took place, and the constant current was tried with success. The paroxysms then came back again, and up to his death were of agonizing pain. Enormous doses of morphia were given. The small subcutaneous syringes were useless, and he procured one that held two drachms. He was accustomed to in- ject 18 grs. of morphium twelve times daily. By means of this he had intervals when the pain was endurable, and could get sleep for an hour or two. Einally he became reduced to a skeleton, and died of exhaustion. Post mortem: absolutely no morbid change could be detected in the nerves, the brain, or the bony canals.