ACUTE OSTITIS AND OSTEOMYELITIS OF FEMUR. 423 Osteomyelitis and periostitis of the femur. A boy, set. 17, was admitted, who could give no accurate history of his complaint, but some old, deep cicatrices were found on the left thigh. On admission, the whole of the external aspect of the left thigh was enormously swollen, and the muscles raised up by fluid. The patient was feverish. The swelling was punctured with Dieulafoy’s aspirator1, and the febrile sym- ptoms decreased. Subsequently two incisions were made, and an immense amount of foul pus, containing gas, evacuated. A great part of the femur was bathed in ichorous matter, but nowhere exposed. This condition did not improve, though the wound was washed out many times daily with carbolic lotion. The weak condition of the patient, and the doubtful exis- tence of osteomyelitis, indicated amputation of the hip. Death from septicaemia. Post mortem : the femur was found denuded of periosteum at one point; the medulla was discoloured, and studded with purulent deposit; pus was found in the knee-joints. Ostitis of the femur. D. F—, set. 5fl. In this man the disease had commenced five months pre- viously, without known cause, with pain in the knee. An abscess formed over the lower end of the femur, which broke after six weeks and healed up. Seven weeks before admission, a similar abscess formed over the upper end of the femur which also healed up. When I saw the patient there was a large cold abscess over the trochanter major, and the whole extent of the bone was markedly thickened. The abscess which was supra-fascial but ran down deeply, was opened, and the cavity stuffed with charpie. Symptoms of acute osteomyelitis followed with effusion into the knee-joint, and the patient died of erysipelas and pyaemia. Post mortem: the upper part of the femur was bathed in pus; pus also in the hip and knee-joints ; the entire femur thickened. This, therefore, was a case of chronic ostitis affecting the upper end of the bone, which took on a very acutely infecting character after the incision. Anton D—, set. 17, was stated to have suffered from acute articular rheu- matism, seven months before admission ; the affection of the right hip-joint proved especially obstinate. The youth was strong and well-nourished. Over the light trochanter was a largo abscess, on the point of bursting, which was opened under antiseptic precautions. The discharge shortly afterwards became foul tad high fever was manifest. The abscess was then freely laid open, and its walls scraped ; the surface of the trochanter was denuded of periosteum. Notwithstanding a free use of carbolic lotion, decomposition