91 CASE OP “ NEUROMA PLEXIFORME OP ORBIT. Neuro-jibroma. (“ Neuroma plcxiformc” Virchow.) In 1866 a student, set. 18, of sturdy build, was sent to me. In the left temporal region lie had a diffused swelling, which did not project in a globular form, but gave an appearance of widening to the temple, and caused the face to look awry. The swelling extended into I,he upper eyelid, perhaps also into the orbit, and was uniformly soft, save where some hard cords and nodules could be felt. Probably the tumour was of congenital origin ; it had increased during the last few years so much that the left eye was concealed, and lie could not obtain a situation by reason of the disfigurement. A more minute investigation of the face and head showed as follows :—The zygomatic arch on the left side was considerably broader and thicker than on the right; the outer part of the left orbit and the anterior half of the left side of the skull were also widened. In the left parietal bone, close to the sagittal suture, an opening the size of a bean could be felt, in which the pulsation of the arteries of the brain was distinct. Taking all things together into consideration, I diagnosed a congenital diffused growth of cellular tissue and fat, permeated.by obliterated and dilated blood-vessels. The opening in the skull, most probably congenital, made the extirpation of t he tumour from the skull inadvisable, since it was not impossible to tell whether beneath the tumour similar defects in the skull might not exist in the temporal fossa, or further, whether the veins, which seemed to be obliterated, did not continue into the skull, either connected with the diploic veins or with the sinuses of the dura mater. I was loth, therefore to attempt the removal of the tumour, but yielded to the earnest request of the patient. The skin overlying the tumour was unaltered and was carefully pre- served ; the incisions were made in such a way that no deformity remained after the parts healed. The removal of the mass of the tumour was very diffi- cult, partly owing to its situation, and partly from its ill-defined extent; however, finally it succeeded completely. Our chief difficulty lay in removing the portion of the tumour which projected into the orbit without iujuriug important structures; unfortunately the greater part of the levator palpebrte bad to be sacrificed. I then found that I was dealing with that rare form of morbid growth, a neuroma plexiforme, one case only of which I had previously met with, and that a small growth in the upper eyelid. The parts healed kindly, and the patient was discharged in good condition but with the move- ment of the upper eyelid rather impaired; some ectropium came on later, for which he was operated upon by Professor Horner. The examination of the tumour showed that it consisted of tor- tuous bands of a white colour, marked like intestine. The diameter of these fibres, which were with difficulty disentangled, varied from a half to two lines. In section they were seen to be of a pale grey colour,and arranged indistinct layers. Most of the bandswere marked with a central faint yellow dot. Under the microscope these bands were seen to consist of cellular tissue, rich in cells. The centre showed here and there fat detritus; in the finer bands double con-