LARYNGOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY CAUSE OF DEATH. 141 that he should do this than that after long resistance the patient should, at a late—often too late—a stage be brought up to the hospital. To us professors in the surgical clinics these cases come usually too late. Laryngotomy and Tracheotomy. In twenty-two cases one or other of these operations was per- formed for high degrees of asphyxia of some duration. In six only did the operation preserve life, yet all the patients were able to breathe with perfect freedom directly after the introduction of the tube, and there seemed no reason why they should not have recovered. Death occurred from a few hours at the earliest to three days at the latest after the operation, and started apparently from the respiratory organs; the patients breathed with more and more difficulty, became cyanosed, and then rapidly collapsed and died. In no instance were any direct material obstructions to the breathing found in the lungs. The autopsies revealed little more than insignificant globular infiltration or slight atelectasis, from choking of the small bronchi by the tough mucus, with perhaps some old emphysema (especially in strumous subjects) or chronic bronchial catarrh. The post-mortem appearances did not explain the rapidly fatal issue of many cases. When, however, symptoms of asphyxia rapidly supervene on a laryngeal or tracheal stenosis which has existed for some days, and especially in those who have suffered perhaps for years from difficult respiration and imperfect oxygenation of the blood, it can be readily understood that a restitutio ad integrum of the respiratory chemical changes can no more be accomplished by the enfeebled apparatus. Dor in such cases the blood is overloaded with carbonic acid and other waste products. Drom the therapeutical point of view, these sad cases have given me much concern; possibly the same unknown causes are fatal also in diphtheritic inflammation of the air passages ; yet in the latter we find—sometimes at any rate—that the morbid processes extend deeper down into the lungs. Moreover, we have learned that the diphtheritic process which primarily aflects the air passages has some special injurious effect on the nerve system, and induces also rapid breaking down of the muscular tissue of the heart. Cases, therefore, having a sudden fatal termination i