235 ENCYSTED PERITONEAL EFFUSION. The patient now rapidly lost strength, although he was placed under the most favourable conditions. The abdomen rapidly increased in size again, especially at the lower part on the left side. I punctured again at this spot, but did not succeed in evacuating much fluid. The fever increased, and he died three months after I first saw him. The post-mortem examination revealed chronic peritonitis, with encysted serous effusions. The intestines were adherent together, partly by cellular tissue, partly by fibrous bands. We were unable to find any cause for the condition. My supposition that the process might have been due to miliary tuberculosis, was negatived by the fact that no trace of tubercle could be found anywhere in the body. The case was an obscure one, in its origin as well as in its progress. Oppolzer, who has perhaps the largest experience of any living physician of abdominal diseases, told me that he had never seen a similar case. With regard to the operative proceedings, it may be remarked that the double puncture was unnecessary; one would have been quite sufficient. It is noteworthy that the canula re- mained in the abdominal cavity for a week without exciting any appreciable local irritation. The punctures relieved the patient, and prolonged his life, or, at any rate, did no harm. The collection of fluid caused the patient so much discomfort that the two first punctures must have been made, even if we had diagnosed the case aright. Bare cases seldom occur singly. Not long after I met with a similar case to the above, which I was enabled to diagnose correctly, and where I punctured only once. The patient, however, died of exhaustion. The four following cases were probably of the same nature, though we had no opportunity of positively verifying the diagnosis : T- M—j oet. 21, a powerful man, was admitted with a prominent bulging of the lower part of the abdomen, just above the symphysis pubis. On palpation, a tolerably resistant tumour-, the size of a foetal head and firmly connected to the symphysis, could be felt. The swelling was painless, and lay immediately behind the abdominal wall with which it was connected. The bladder and the bowels acted normally, and a catheter passed easily. Nothing of the tumour could be made out through the rectum. The patient could state nothing positively about tlio origin of the tumour, which caused him no trouble ; he had noticed it for about eight days, but could not say whether it had developed slowly or quickly.