FRACTURE OF RADIUS. 347 was daily employed and after two weeks the mobility of the elbow-joint was decidedly increased. Fracture of the Eadius only. Among 103 cases of this injury the majority were fractures of the lower epiphysis.1 I usually put up the arm in a plaster bandage. Such fractures are often complicated by fissures extending into the wrist-joint or extravasation of blood, and lead to stiffness of the joint which often lasts for weeks or months; the tendons, too, become united by adhesions to the inner surface of the sheaths. Passive movement, rupture of the adhesions (which is frequently exceedingly painful), and soaking the hand in water in all cases effected a cure. Among six of these patients who died of other injuries, we found usually on examining the fractures after death that in addition to the transverse fracture of the lower epiphysis fissures extended into the wrist-joint. There is little doubt that this accounts for the stiffness of the wrist-joint, which in many patients, especially in the elderly, persists for so long a time after fractures of this nature.. Pseud arthrosis. A man, jet. 39, was admitted who, two years previously had sustained a compound fracture about the centre of the right upper arm; no pieces of bone had come away. The fracture was treated originally with splints, and then put up in a paste bandage. As after sixteen weeks no union had taken place, the treatment was given up. When admitted the arm was much wasted and could be moved in any direction at the seat of fracture. I cut down on the pseudarthrosis, bored through the two fragments, and united the bones with a stout leaden wire. The limb was put up in a plaster bandage with a window. A considerable amount of reaction and suppuration followed. The suture was removed three months after the operation; there was then abundant callus, and the fracture was well consolidated. Elizabeth M , rot. 38, was admitted with a compound comminuted fracture about the middle of the right humerus, and other severe in- juries. The fracture was put up at once in a plaster bandage. Subse- quently some fragments of bone bocame necrosed and were removed, and the wound healed up, but the callus did not consolidate. I saw her a year 1 Colles’ fracture. [Ed.]