367 CHRONIC PERIOSTITIS OP POREARM. relaxed and tender. Amputation was perf onned about the middle of the arm, and an abscess which reached up almost to the axilla laid open. Complete recovery followed in a month. With regard to the examination of the arm, I find it only recorded “ no thrombosis of the brachial artery or veins, either in the stump or at the Amputated portion.” This I can hardly believe, for thrombi must undoubtedly have been found at the line of demarcation. I regret that I did not see the case myself, for it occurred during my vacation. Erom the description of the com- mencement of the disease, and from the position of the line of demarcation, I suspect—reasoning by analogy from similar cases of spontaneous gangrene occurring in the lower extremities—that there was an embolism of the cubital artery, probably originating from endocarditis with vegetation growths on the aortic valves. An analogous case also originating during pregnancy, of spon- taneous gangrene of the leg, came under my observation at Zurich {vicle infra in the chapter on the lower extremity). Chronic periostitis of the hones of the forearm. A child, set. 8, was admitted with a swelling of both forearms and patho- logical dislocation of the right hip. It was not possible to find out much beyond the fact that though rather neglected he had been fairly healthy up to two years previously; the right hip-joint then became affected and painful. The thigh could be freely moved without causing pain. Both forearms we found much swollen, owing to marked deposits of new bone, especially on the ulna, so that these bones, particularly at the Upper parts, were twice their normal thickness. This osteoplastic periostitis was suggestive of congenital syphilis. Iodine was applied to the forearm, and iodide of iron was given internally. A fortnight after admission the child became very ill, with pain in the abdomen, and violent vomiting; during the next few days the abdomen became distended, and the sickness continued. Eighteen days later fifty ounces of thick yellow pus escaped at the umbilicus. The next day the child was taken away by his mother—a rather obstinate woman—against advice. The child was in such a wretched plight that I thought he would soon die; I heard, however, twelve months later that he was still alive, though in a very deplorable condition. Chronic Inflammation of the Shoulder and Elbow Joints. A table of nine cases—in three of which excision was performed