502 DIET AFTER OPERATION. peritonitis was set up in these or any of the patients. The second patient died of inanition the result of the mechanical obstruction, and the third of collapse. The diet after the operation is a point of great importance in the after-treatment. Sometimes, nay usually, the patients are in great need of nourishment and will not long tolerate the simple administration of ice. To the first patient, a feeble woman. Professor Billroth did not hesitate to give a tablespoonful of cold sour milk every hour the day after operation; this was ex- ceptionally well borne. During the following days, larger quantities were given, so that by the eighth day the patient took a litre or more of milk in the twenty-four hours; subsequently up to the fourteenth day she had some tea and cocoa boiled in milk, wine, and wine- soup, and at the end of a fortnight she was able to take meat. At the outset we had great hopes that we should be able to carry the patients through the first few days by means of nutrient enemata, but neither peptone or pancreatic injections were tolerated; they generally set up diarrhoea, which reduced the patients very much. We were thus limited to injections containing wine, which at first were given every third hour, directly after the operation and during the next few days, and answered well. Further details will be given in the descriptions of the cases. Case I.-—Tlierese Heller, set. 43, was admitted on the 25th January, 1881. The patient had suffered for three months from symptoms of indigestion. Every day, about half an hour or an hour after her meals, she brought up the greater paid of what she had taken. There was no blood in the vomit but the stools were usually tarry. For some time previous to admission she had been able to take nothing hut sour milk. She had wasted much and lost strength, was very anaemic, and for the last six weeks had been forced to keep her bed. The skin and mucous membranes generally were pale, the tongue furred, the pulse thready, the abdominal walls flaccid. In the umbilical region could be felt a hard, easily movable tumour, painful on pressure, and about the size of a small fist. It was unconnected witli the abdominal walls. On the left side of the growth the limits of the stomach could he distinctly made out by percussion. Other organs normal. Taking into account the weak state of the patient, operation could not long be post- poned. The evening before the operation enemata were administered, and an hour before the stomach was washed out. We introduced into the stomach a moderately large drainage tube, to the upper end of which a glass funnel was connected. Through this about a litre or a litre and a half of lukewarm water was pourod in; as the funnel was depressed the fluid escaped again, the tube acting as a syphon. This proceeding was repeated several times, until the water escaping from the stomach was perfectly clear. About four-