FRACTURE OF NECROSED FEMUR. SOFTENING OF CALLUS. 393 Fracture of necrosed femur. A boy, set. n, had suffered from necrosis of the femur for nine years; numerous sinuses had formed over the lower end of the bone. Ten days before admission he had a fall on the affected limb, which was followed by much pain and swelling; the invaginating sheath of bone was found, on admission, to have been fractured. I performed sequestrotomy in the usual way, and applied extension. The operation was, however, followed by exten- sive suppuration, which finally attacked the knee-joint, so that I was forced to amputate the femur high up. He recovered, but the wound did not perfectly heal. The stump of bone was found to be so extensively diseased that I disarticulated it. The patient ultimately did well.1 Softening of callus twelve months after union of fracture. Eugenie H—, set. 13, a well-developed but highly-nervous child, had, according to her mother’s account, fractured her leg when three years old. The limb united in good position, but she had pain whenever she bore on the foot. A year after the injury the leg commenced to bend at the seat of fracture. Iodine was applied but did not check the pain, and in spite of an apparatus the curve became worse. Eventually the pain increased to such an extent that the patient was for a long time confined to her bed. When she came under my care the lower half of the left leg was bent backwards at an angle of about iio°. At the back of the limb the muscles of the calf were very prominent, and just at the angle of the bend the tibia was much thickened. By means of Rizzoli’s apparatus the bone was easily fractured, and the limb was then put up in good position in a plaster bandage. The reaction after the operation was extraordinarily severe. I never met with a case where so much pain was experienced at the seat of fracture ; the amount of swelling was very moderate. The plaster bandage was repeatedly changed ; ice and leeches were applied, but the pain could only be controlled by sub- cutaneous injections. I expected an abscess in the bone. At the end of a month we found reason to believe that the pain was not all genuine, and this view was confirmed by the fact that injections of distilled water com- pletely controlled her sufferings. Two months after the fracture the bone was firmly consolidated, but there was still some oedema of the leg. Com- plete recovery followed, though it was slow. Two years later I heard that she could walk freely without limping, and was able to dance. This is the only case which I have met with, in which softening 1 A case somewhat of this nature is reported in ‘ St. George's Hospital Reports, vol. viii, p. 533. Recovery followed, with good union.—[Ed.]