466 OSTEOTOMY IN EIOKETTY DEFORMITIES. Tlio condition of tlio foot when first seen seemed to demand either excision of a wedge of hone, as practised by Davy and v. Meusen, or evidement of the astragalus, as performed by Verebelyi. As the patient was unwilling to have an operation of any magnitude performed, and stated that she would he satis- fied with a partial cure, I decided on orthopaedic treatment. The plantar fascia was first divided subcutaneously beneath the sharpest bend of the foot, and six days later under an anaesthetic the first plaster bandage was applied in the manner described. The improvement at first was so slight tha t my pre- vious expectations were much moderated, but when after three weeks I tried redressement, I found that the bands were more yielding. Altogether five plaster bandages were applied, and when I removed the fifth bandage after four months of treatment, the shape of the foot was almost normal. This seems a strong statement, but on comparing the plaster casts taken before and after treatment it was seen that it was no exaggeration; the foot was straight, the cleft of the inner border had disappeared, the astragalus had sunk back into its place, and the great toe was in its proper position. In walking, the sole of the foot was perfectly normal as it touched the ground, and the only remnant of the former deformity was the excessive curve on the inner edge of the foot. Of course, the right foot was not the same as the left, inasmuch as its growth had been much restricted and it was distinctly shorter than the right. By the help of a supporting apparatus and a pelvic girdle, the patient soon learned to walk perfectly well, and was sent home highly delighted with the improvement. Possibly in this case a cure might have been effected in a shorter time than four months by excising a wedge of bone, but the result could hardly have been better. Indeed, it could not have been so good, for the foot, which was already too short, would have been still more curtailed by such an operation/'’ Osteotomy for Ricketty Deformities. While at Zurich I performed subcutaneous osteotomy on four children, whose ages varied from two and a half to three years, for ricketty deformities of the legs. The operation was performed after the rachitic process had ceased. The result was highly satisfactory in all, and very slight reaction followed the operation. In every case the limb was straightened immediately after the osteotomy, and then put up in plaster bandages, a small window being cut over the wound. The following case of softening of the bones is of some rarity; I