TREATMENT OE TALIPES BY e EEDEE SSEMENT.’ 465 foot. In older persons an ansestketic is necessary, and more force is required. The reclressement can be effected by pressure with the flat of the hand under the sole, while an assistant fixes the leg firmly in the extended position. The apparatus is always renewed in from two to three weeks. In children of a year old the entire treatment lasts from two to three months, and from three to five plaster bandages will suffice. Imme- diately after the removal of the last bandage, a simple apparatus to support the part, consisting of a shoe with two lateral splints, is applied. A catch in the hinge corresponding to the ankle-joint prevents counter-flexion of the foot to more than a right angle, while a strap presses on the part where the foot is most curved. When the splints only reach up to the knee, the foot readily turns inwards—a circumstance which may interfere with a successful result. It is better, therefore, that the splints should extend higher up, and they should be first fixed above with a pelvic girdle, as by this means the leg can be completely prevented from rolling inwards. After this, as after other modes of treatment, the condition will return if grossly neglected, but it should not if a moderate degree of intelligence on the part of the relations be exercised; if they will but learn how to apply the simple apparatus properly, they may by means of it effect a permanent cure. The following case will serve as an illustration of the treatment. The patient, was a girl, set. 20, who was bom with talipes of the left foot. When a year old she was taken to a well-known orthopaedic institution, where she remained under treatment for eighteen months. I was unable to find out the condition of the foot on her discharge, hut very soon after she left further medical treatment was necessary ; still, no complete cure was effected. When seen the patient was stout and strong; she had a slight lateral curva- ture as the result of her limping walk and a tolerably high degree of talipes varus in the left foot. At the transverse articulation the foot was so sharply bent inwards that there was a deep sulcus on the inner border, the anterior and posterior parts of the foot forming something under a right angle. In addition, her foot was strongly supinated, so that in walking only the outei part of the metatarsal bone touched the ground. On both extre- mities of this bone were callosities. The ankle-joint was so twisted that the external malleolus was markedly more posterior than the internal. On the cuter side of the dorsum of the foot the astragalus formed a decided projec- tion. To complete the description, the great toe was flexed on the dorsum at nearly a right angle with its metatarsal bone, and the extensors would not yield so as to allow of its being straightened. 30