297 H2E1IAT0METBA. sittings. The child who at the outset had very little appetite, gradually sank and died twenty-four days after admission. At the post-mortem examination, growths, similar in nature to those described above, were found in the lower part of the bladder, the portio vaginalis and the canal of the cervix uteri. In addition there was pus in the peritoneum and an abscess of considerable size in the left kidney. It could not be determined whether the condition had originated from gonorrheaL infection. Hcematometra. S. W—, ret. 27. Twelve months previously she had a child which was delivered with forceps. The lying-in was attended by serious illness lasting four weeks. The menses did not reappear as her health improved. For five months at stated times she had suffered from severe pain about the sacrum and in the uterus. For a few weeks immediately preceding admission, the pain in the lower part of the abdomen had been tolerably constant. The application of some leeches over the painful part gave no relief. The patient was a tolerably strong woman. The uterus was enlarged to the size of a large fist, and lay rather to the left of the middle line. On examining per vaginam no portio vaginalis uteri could he found. Its place was occupied by some tough cicatricial tissue having a small opening on the left side, from which some sanious pus escaped; a catheter passed into this, ran upwards towards the left for an inch and a half. The canal, which was possibly the remnant of a former abscess, terminated in a csecal extremity. A fortnight after her admission, I made an incision, strictly in the middle line, into, the cicatricial tissue, through which fluctuation was distinct. Some tarry blood escaped, which by moderate pressure on the uterus through the abdomen could be made to flow in large quantity. The operation seemed exceptionally successful. During the next two days the patient went on well, but on the fourth day she complained of severe pain suddenly occurring in the lower part of the abdomen. The pain increased and extended, and within five hours- she had all the symptoms of “ foudroyante ” peritonitis. Ho remedies were of any avail, and she died the following day. Post mortem.—Six ounces of ill-smelling, turbid, purulent fluid in the abdominal cavity. The intestines distended. The peritoneum covered with a viscid, sticky layer, which in the cavity of the pelvis was more fibrinous in character. Hiematometra was found in accordance with the diagnosis; both Fallopian tubes were tortuous, with pouch-like dilatations, and full of tarry blood. In one of the pouches in the right Fallopian tube was a small opening, from which a little blood only escaped. Probably this part had been adherent to the intestines. The ostia abdominalia of both Fallopian tubes were closed; the uterine openings were so narrowed that the very finest sound could not be readily passed in. Ihe above case closely resembles one described by E. Rose in bis- work entitled “ Die Operation der Hsematometra/* (‘ Monatschr. fiir Gcburtskunde u. Erauenkrankh./ Band 29 and 30).