RHINOPLASTIC FOR RESULTS OF SYPHILITIC DISEASE. 85 v. LangenbecFs method be adopted, of folding in the septum and both aim of the nose, and preserving the mucous membrane of the lower part of the nasal passage, there is no danger of the nasal cavities closing up at a later period. The amount of subsequent narrowing depends materially on the patients. The tubes ought to be introduced every night, for at least a year. By doubling in the septum and aim, the lower part of the nose is certainly made rather thick, and will remain so for about a year, but as the newly- formed organs always become rather soft, thin, and smaller, after some time, the prominence of the nose will be so materially diminished that its appearance will be very ugly, unless the whole of the lower part be made as thick as possible at first. I have no experience of rhinoplastic operations on children; I have never ventured to perform complete rhinoplastic in such cases, for fear that the newly-formed noses might not grow and keep pace with the development of the face. Possibly I am prejudiced; any positive information on this point would be very desirable. We are often implored by the parents of such unfortunate children to do something in order to improve the deformity. Repeated rhinoplastic operations from the arm, forehead and cheek. J. B,—, set. 30. The nose in this patient had been destroyed by syphilitic disease. In March, 1S70, a complete rhinoplastic was performed by Dr. Salzer from the left upper arm. The result, which was at first very successful was marred by sloughing of the septum and a portion of both aim of the nose; subsequently the remainder shrivelled up completely. In November, 1870, I performed a complete rhinoplastic from the forehead. The result at the out- set was again satisfactory, but the flap from the forehead and the septum shrank up to such au extent that the apex of the nose projected very much upwards and the prominence of the organ was insufficient. On the 2nd December, therefore, I performed a fresh operation, with a view to renew the end of the nose. Unfortunately, the nourishment of the upper part of the septum, when separated from its bridge and the alee of the nose, was inadequate, and the greater part of the end of the nose and a portion of the ala sloughed. The defects which now existed on both sides were filled up by two small flaps from the cheeks. The eventual result was tolerably satisfactory, though not so good as in a well-formed rhinoplastic from the forehead. The cicatrices on the cheeks were less disfiguring than I had expected; I had never previously per- formed or seen a rhinoplastic operation where the flap was taken from the cheek. In the course of some months, the flaps which I had transplanted became so shortened that the projection of the nose, which at first was very good, became ultimately as bad as before. Having had previous experience on this patient, 1 did not venture at once to proceed to any further plastic opera—