HERNIA CEREBRI AFTER OPERATION RECOVERY. 119 tumour was lifted out from tho right frontal sinus, into which it had extended by pressure. The tumour, as had been diagnosed, proved to he a typical cylindroma. Tho patient recovered. The following case is one of extraordinary interest in the follow- ing particulars :—(i) that after the operation, prolapsus cerebri took place into the orbit; (2) that this was complicated with aphasia and paresis of the opposite half of the body; and (3), most remarkable of all, that these conditions after a time disappeared, and the patient again recovered complete health. B. T—, set. 47, had a superficial destructive ulceration of the left "half of the nose and eyelids, extending into the orbit. This had commenced as a nodule, close to the inner angle of the left eye, eight years previously. During the operation, the entire orbit had to be scraped out with a raspatory, for everywhere suspicious nodules could he felt. The cancer for the most part was superficial, and the hones on exposal seemed to he free of disease. At one point, however, just above the lachrymal bone, a gap the size of a bean was seen. The diseased paid was removed with great care and caution ; after this was done the pulsations of the brain were distinctly seen at this spot. The brain seemed to be covered by roughened dura mater. The patient, who was much distressed by the long operation and the plastic pro- cedure following it, had moderate fever during the next few days. He vomited repeatedly, complained of headache, and was not always quite clear in his mind. An ice-bladder was kept continually applied to his head after the operation. We expected suppurative meningitis; however, the vomiting ceased on the third day, and the pain diminished. From the third to the seventh day the fever diminished in the most satisfactory way. The sequel of the case was most remarkable. Hernia of the brain sub- stance, the size of a small walnut, took place through the gap into the orbit. On the fifth day the tongue could not he protruded, but if it were pulled out he could draw it back again. The cornea of the right eye, which. alone existed, possessed scarcely any sensation, and could be touched without making the patient blink. The patient could see and hear, and gave signs that he could understand whatever was said to him, but be could not speak Phonation, however, was not completely lost, for when in pain he uttered cries. If he were spoken to he waited a moment, then shrugged his shoulders, to intimate that he could not express his thoughts. He made the same movement if he were asked to write. He could swallow without diffi- culty, and refused any kind of food or drink which was forbidden by his Jewish co-religionists. He was dumb, but not without power of thought and reason. Thus, he made signs when he required the bed-pan or porringer to void his urine. He could stand up, and with support walk a few steps, but the right half of the body was weaker than the left. This condition continued, and we feared, therefore, that a fatal issue could not be far off. On the eight day he had an epileptiform attack, which lasted for half an hour. During this the convulsive movements in all his limbs wore so severe that in spite of tho