103 CANCER OF THE FACE. Section I1'.—Malignant Tumours. Cancer of face—Cases. Cancerous ulceration of cheek leading to necrosis of jaw. Case of rodent ulcer (?) ; remarks. Notes on epithelioma of the face ; of lip. Ccuses of sarcoma of cheek. Cancer of salivary gland, tongue, etc. ; remarks. Sarcoma of salivary glands; remarks. Case of medullary lymphoma of tonsils; death. Case of alveolar cancer of tongue. Ligature of lingual artery for cancer. Remarks on cancer of tongue— Cases. Sarcoma of orbit; mixed celled; “psammon periosteal. Exploratory puncture of orbital tumours—Case. Cylindro-sarcoma. Cancer of orbit; removal. Hernia cerebri, etc; recovery. Sarcoma of lower jaw ; central; periosteal. Note on maxillary tumours. Sarcoma of nose. Malignant polijpi of nose. Cancer of the face. K. S—, ret. 50, had had for eight years a wart on the left ala of the nose, followed by ulceration and the formation of crusts. On admission, the left ala of the nose was completely destroyed, and the superficial cancerous ulceration of the skin spread over the cheek to some extent. The defect in the cheek was supplied by a flap transplanted by a sliding movement, and the left ala replaced by skin borrowed from the right side of the nose. The parts healed by first intention. As far as the appearance of the patient was concerned the result was not good; the flap made by the sliding movement became oedematous and thickened—a condition however, which would tend to improve. The thin skin over the left ala of the nose shrivelled up, and the nostril in consequence was much narrowed; this latter imperfection might probably have been improved by the introduction of laminaria tents and lead tubes. No further record of the patient was obtainable. T. B , aet. 61. The nose had been excoriated by a fall two years pre- viously ; following this a small knot developed slowly at the end of the nose, which by degrees spread over the ala and invaded the left cheek. This was a case of infiltrated cancel-, growing rather rapidly. The defect in the cheek was made good, as in the previous case, by skin borrowed from the cheek, and then complete rhinoplastic from the forehead was performed ; six weeks later the bridge was cut through. Although healing did not