186 OASES SIMULATING RETRO-PHARYNGEAL ABSCESS. the attempt. I remember some years ago to have read something about an operation of this kind which was performed in America, but I do not recollect what became of the patient. It need scarcely be stated that abscesses connected with caries of the cervical vertebra; must be opened if they cause any difficulty of respiration. One would hardly think that the diagnosis of these retro-pharyngeal abscesses could be a matter of doubt, and yet I have twice been mistaken in such cases. In one of the patients, the apparent abscess was found to be a diffused, very- soft, medullary lympho-sarcoma, with a rounded surface and distinct fluctua- tion ; the cervical lymphatic glands first became affected some weeks later, and the patient died of the tumour a few months afterwards. The second case was that of a healthy man, set. 18, who, in addition to a bronchocele, had a fluctuating retro-phaiyngeal tumour. All that the patient could tell us was that for some weeks he had found some difficulty in swallow- ing and breathing, and his voice had been nasal. The appearance of the man hardly led us to suspect disease of the spine. After consultation with Pro- fessor Stork, we came to the conclusion that the swelling was due to a retro- pharyngeal abscess. An incision was made into it, and we were not a little taken aback when a tremendous stream of dark blood gushed forth. The situation was a most distressing one. Direct pressure was scarcely practicable ; the blood was partly swallowed, and then vomited up again, in part it descended into the larynx and was coughed up. Finally, while I made pres- sure on the carotids, Professor Stork quickly prepared a solution of alum, which the patient took into his mouth, and the bleeding was eventually con- trolled, but not before it had caused us the greatest anxiety. The patient became very faint; we kept him lying on his hack for some time, and made him keep small pieces of ice in the mouth. The haemorrhage did not return, and in a few days the opening of the incision closed. This was a case of a hasmatoma in the posterior wall of the pharynx, resembling a retro-pharyn- geal abscess. I cannot understand how it could have been in any way connected with the bronchocele, which was of small size, for these small thy- roid tumours do not exert any pressure on the viens ; even in large bronchoceles, into which blood-vessels almost the thickness of the finger pass, I never saw a hsematoma of the pharynx. Professor Stork was kind enough to give me the following information about the patient some six months later :—“ On the left side of the pharynx in the same situation is a uniform, soft, non-pulsating tumour, with broad base, of moderate circumference, and but slightly prominent. The cicatrix of incision is still visible ; the hsematoma is now, as before, invested by a tough wall; the bronchocele has