-80 SPEECH AFTER STAPHYLORAPUY. operations undertaken at an early age, I may mention the case of a child who was treated successfully when one year old. Four years afterwards he still spoke with rather a guttural tone; but an instance such as this by no means settles this point, for we do not know whether later, say when this child was fifteen years of age, his speech would not have been better than if he had been operated on at the age of fourteen. Careful comparisons require to be made on the subject. The further question also arises, whether after successful operations for hare-lip and staphylorapby during the first year of life, the fissure in the hard palate may not close spontaneously later on. Now, in my patient, the fissure had in no degree diminished after the lapse of a year, so that this case proves nothing; further- more, if this child had been provided with an obturator early, and had from the first practised and exercised the palatal muscles after the velum had been united by operation, his speech might have been better than in a patient operated on later in life. Although I value very highly the conspicuous success which Siiersen1 has obtained by the invention of his obturator, yet what I mean is, that we should not desist from attempts to obtain an equally good result by opera- tion. The new methods of operating devised by Passavant and Schonborn deserve to have every attention paid to them, and require still further development. In the case of a woman in whom staphylorapby had previously been performed by another surgeon, I did an urano-plastic opera- tion. The patient was exceedingly troublesome and restless. On the third day violent vomiting occurred after a surfeit of milk and cherries, and all the sutures gave way. The operation was, of course, unsuccessful. In six patients who were cured by operation, and in one who was provided with an obturator after union of the velum, speech was improved, but it was still not so good as in the case of patients operated on for simple fissure of the arch of the palate. The patients were well pleased that they required no longer to wear an obturator, and that their food and drink did not so readily pass up into the nose, but were disappointed with regard to the improve- ment of articulation. I cannot say whether ossification of the newly-formed palate followed later on. It appears to me, from what I have learned after minute obser- vation on these cases, that the soft palate is united to the posterior 1 ‘Lehrbuclt d. Zalmheilkuude,’ Leipzig, 1S77.