SENILE GANGRENE. GANGRENE AFTER TYPHUS. 411 patients who came under my observation, varied between fifty-two and eighty-two. Many of the patients were of dull intellect; atrophy of the brain and atheroma of the cerebral arteries were often found, though not in all instances. A dry form of gangrene —mummification—is the common form; this is due to the fact that the circulation is not suddenly arrested, nor the fluids in the tissues completely imprisoned; the obstruction takes place gradually, and the fluids are carried away by the veins and lymphatics; for this to take place, some, however slight, arterial circulation is necessary. When mummification of the leg follows embolism of the popliteal artery, either the plug cannot have been complete at the outset, or else feeble collateral circulation must have gone on. If the circulation be suddenly and totally arrested, decomposition and moist gangrene must follow, as observed in gangrene due to traumatic causes, or to frost-bite. This kind of moist gangrene (sphacelus) differs materially in its origin from the moist gangrene which is due to intense inflammation of the part. This latter form is well described by the old name of warm gangrene (heisser Brand). We are never able to predicate the duration of senile gangrene, or the probable limit of demarcation with any degree of certainty. In the cases that I have met with, the duration of the process up to the spontaneous separation of the gangrenous parts, or till death, varied between a month and two years. This is as distressing for the surgeon, as for the patient. In senile gangrene no general rule can be laid down as to when or where we should amputate. In general, so far as I have seen, the results of the regulation ex- pectant treatment are so unfavourable, that I have determined in future, to amputate at an earlier date at the foot, or above the malleoli, unless the patients be too much reduced. Possibly our new methods of treating wounds may bring about more favourable results than our predecessors were able to achieve. Gangrene after typhus. AVolf 13 , at. 26, had an attack of typhus nine weeks before admission ; during the third week of the disease, according to his statement, dark dis- colouration began in the leg and gradually spread over tho toes, commencing at the great too. In the seventh week, the limits of the gangrene first became defined; the pain and fever then coascd, and when the patient was admitted