237 VOLVULUS. FIBROMA OF ABDOMINAL WALL. Elizabeth A—, set. io, was stated by her parents to have suffered from typhus five weeks before her admission. Eight days before she came under my care a painful swelling was remarked, extending from the umbilicus deep down into the abdomen. The skin about the umbilicus was reddened, very thin, and bulged prominently forward. The abscess was opened by a small incision, and about two and a half pints of thin, greenish pus escaped. Convalescence was delayed by an attack of diarrhoea, but the abscess healed up in about six weeks. There was still slight dulness in the neighbourhood of the cicatrix when she was discharged. Volvulus. A woman, jet. 59, was admitted with symptoms of severe ileus, which had existed for twenty-four hours; she had also an inguinal hernia, which, however, was found to be perfectly moveable and flaccid. The condition of collapse precluded any operation, and the patient died in a few hours. Post mortem : volvulus of the greater part of the ileum was found. Fibrous tumour of the abdominal walls. Josephine W—, mother of several children, was admitted with a fibroma, the size of a man’s head, situated in the middle line just beneath the umbilicus; the tumour had commenced nine months previously, when she was thirty-four years old. The patient had been confined five months before admission. The growth of the tumour had been particularly rapid during the pregnancy. I removed the tumour, separating the thin layer of the peritoneum over a space the size of the palm of the hand, from its under surface. No recurrence had taken place nearly four years after. Ernilie E , jet. 24, the mother of several children, had a fibroma which had commenced two years previously. The tumour was the size of a foetal head and situated just to the right of the umbilicus. A small portion of the peritoneum was cut away in removing the growth. Pour and a half years later, she had no recurrence. Ltiologically it is worthy of note that these fascial tumours were nearly always observed in women who had been several times pregnant. Cai cinoma of the omentum and the pelvic viscera. Two cases ol this nature came under observation, in women aged respectively twenty-eight and forty-one. In one case, the tumour