4 ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT OP WOUNDS'. should have amputated far more frequently if the patients or their friends had not objected. I never held myself justified in perform- ing excision of the hip in cases where no suppuration existed, and where there was only fungous synovitis, or slight ostitis of the upper end of the femur. Nor do I often feel it right to undertake the task of removing every suppurating part from some anaemic, miserable child, the subject of knee- or hip-joint disease with extensive suppuration. In such operations, however, I freely admit that the antiseptic method often has one advantage, viz. that the immediate results after operation are much better than they used to be under our old systems. Nowadays, there is good prospect of temporary benefit when the patients are weakly, or even decidedly tuberculous. Formerly, we should not have thought of operating, for fear of the severe suppuration that would inevitably follow. Still, treat these wounds as you will, sinuses will be left, and the ultimate results will be almost as unsatisfactory as they used to be. The same applies to ^videment of carious bone about the hand or foot; two or three weeks after the operation, the wounds will be in just the same condition as they were with our old-fashioned dressings. In a few instances I have opened and treated antiseptically, cold, congestive abscesses connected with diseased spine; I have not seen any of these abscesses close up very rapidly, and the patients ultimately left in much the same condition as if the abscess had been allowed to open spontaneously. Again, in chronic supra- fascial abscesses about the back or thigh, in one or two cases I laid the cavity freely open, scraped the walls, united the wound by sutures, inserted a drainage-tube, and employed antiseptics. One case only healed up soundly, and remained so; in all the others the cicatrices broke down, and fresh suppuration followed from the sinuses; nor did I perceive any advantage over simple puncture and drainage. Eeluctantly, therefore, I have come to the con- clusion that the antiseptic method is of no material advantage in assisting our endeavours to convert these chronic ulcerative pro- cesses into simple traumatic lesions. A large proportion of the patients who come under my care are affected with such com- plaints : this fact must excuse my inability to manifest any true enthusiasm for a method of treatment which is best adapted to cases I am seldom called upon to treat, viz. severe injuries.1 1 In the year 1877, among 20,105 patients admitted into the hospital at