382 CASES OF SARCOMA. M. F—, set. 9, was admitted for a rapidly growing tumour wliicli occupied tbe upper half of the humerus, and was the size of a child’s head. The skin over the growth was thin, and the voins dilated and prominent. I supposed that it was a case of osteo-sarcoma, and amputated at the shoulder- joint. Professor Rindfleisch, however, on examination found that the growth was not such as I had imagined, and following the old nomenclature, he designated it a typical osteoid cancer (Knochen Carcinome); according to our present views I should have termed it an alveolar sarcoma. The mass of the tumour was of a pale greyish-red colour and was partly situated in the medulla of the bone, and partly on tho outer surface of the partly destroyed compact tissue, of which only a layer was left. I heard subsequently that shortly after her dismissal, recurrence took place in various parts of the body, but not at the site of operation. Towards the end of her life, severe nasal catarrh, complete obstruction of the nose, and total blindness occurred. After death tumours were found connected with the skull and brain, which on examination were seen to be beautiful specimens of small-celled sarcoma—some of the cells being round, and others spindle-shaped. I have no doubt, therefore, that the primary tumour of the humerus was a sarcoma. Unfortunately, the original specimen was lost, so that I was unable to compare the two. The disease lasted altogether twenty-two months. Sarcoma of the hand. F. H—, act. xg, was admitted for a tumour in the palm of the hand, just above the wrist. The growth originated after a blow, received three years previously; it had increased very slowly, and without pain. {The parents were much opposed to amputation, and accordingly I extirpated][tlio (growth. I found the tumour connected with the sheaths of the tendons and extending some little distance along them. The operation was performed antiseptically and rapid recovery followed. The movements of the hand were considerably impaired subsequently, but by persevering friction, and faradisation, the stiff- ness gradually improved. Recurrence took place seven months later in the oicatrix, and as amputation again was refused, I proceeded once more to dissect out tho tumour. The anatomical condition was of some interest; the morbid growth extended along the sheaths of the tendons to tho finger-joints, and I was forced to lay open the sheaths for a considerable extent. Under antiseptic treatment, the wound, which was extensive and complicated, did very well at the outset, hut secondary haemorrhage came on, then rigors, and inflam- mation of the pleura, so that amputation became necessary. He recovered from this, but died some months later. Numerous sarcomatous nodules were found in both lungs and the lymphatic glands of the right axilla were