175 MOVEMENTS OF THE HEAD. Between the lateral bands is a central odontoid ligament) which With a cen- connects the tip of the odontoid process to the margin of the tral band# basilar process of the occipital bone. Union of the atlas with the axis. The transverse ligament of the To fix odon- atlas (fig. 49, 2), is a flat, strong, arched band behind the odontoid therete°aeSS process, which is attached on each side to a tubercle below the inner part of the articular process. This ligament is widest in the transverse centre ; and at this spot it has a band of longitudinal fibres con- n ' nected with the upper and lower margins (fig. 49), so as to produce named cru- a cruciform appearance : the upper band is inserted into the basilar clform ; process, and the lower, into the body of the second vertebra. Its surface towards the cord is concealed by the occipito-axoid ligament. This ligament fixes the odontoid process of the second vertebra against the body of the atlas, confining it in a ring (fig. 50). When the transverse and check ligaments have been cut through, articular the tip of the odontoid process will be seen to have two cartilaginous SU1 aces> Fig. 50.* surfaces ; one in front where it touches the atlas, the other at the opposite aspect, where it is in contact with the transverse ligament. Two synovial membranes facilitate the movements of the odontoid and two process, one serving for the joint between this piece of bone and the membranes. atlas ; and the other for the joint between it and the transverse ligament. Union of the articular surfaces. The articular surfaces of the Capsule and occipital bone and atlas are surrounded by a capsular ligament of scattered fibres, which is strongest externally and in front. When the joint is opened, the condyle of the occipital bone will be seen to look somewhat outwards, and the hollowed surface of the atlas inwards. A synovial membrane is present on each side. synovial sac The articular surfaces of the first two vertebrae are enclosed on to articular each side by a capsule (fig. 46, 4), which is stronger in front than surfaces- behind. On opening the joint the surfaces of the bones may be perceived to be almost horizontal. On each side there is a separate loose synovial membrane. Movements of the head. The head can be bent forwards and Movements backwards : turned from side to side—rotation; and inclined towards kinds of. the shoulder. * First vertebra with the odontoid process removed from the socket formed by the bone and the transverse ligament. 1. Transverse ligament with its offsets cut. 2. Socket for the odontoid process.