524 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. A dense tunic con- tains small .secreting tubes. How to see the struc- ture of the testis. Fibrous coat ; characters ; use. Sends inwards processes, as the me- diastinum and finer septa a vascular layer lines it (tunica vasculosa). Seminal tubules : appearance and is nearly an ounce, and the left is frequently larger than the other. Structure. The substance of the testicle is composed of minute secerning tubes, around which the bloodvessels are disposed in plexuses. Surrounding and supporting the delicate seminiferal tubes is a dense covering—the tunica albuginea. Its excretory or efferent duct is named vas deferens. Dissection. With the view of examining the investing fibrous coat, let the testis be placed on its outer side, viz. that on which the epididymis lies, and let it be fixed firmly in that position with pins. The fibrous coat is to be cut through along the anterior part, and thrown backwards as far as the entrance of the bloodvessels. Whilst raising this membrane a number of fine bands will be seen traversing the substance of the testicle, and a short septal piece (mediastinum) may be perceived at the back of the viscus, where the vessels enter ; but it will be expedient to remove part of the mass of tubes in the interior, to bring more fully into view the mediastinum, and to trace back some of the finer septa to it. The tunica albuginea, or the fibrous coat of the testicle, is of a bluish-white colour, and resembles in appearance the sclerotic coat of the eyeball. This membrane protects the secreting part of the testicle, and maintains the shape of the organ by its dense and un- yielding structure : it also sends inwards processes to support and separate the seminal tubes. These several offsets of the membrane appear in the dissection ; and one of them at the back of the testicle, which is larger than the rest, is the mediastinum. The mediastinum testis (fig. 167, cl) (corpus Highmorianum) pro- jects into the gland for a third of an inch with the bloodvessels. It is situate at the back of the testis, extending from the upper nearly to the lower end, and is rather larger and deeper above than below. It is formed of two pieces, which are united anteriorly at an acute angle. To its front and sides the finer septal processes are connected ; and in its interior are contained the bloodvessels behind, and a network of seminal ducts in front (rete testis). Of the finer processes of the tunica albuginea (fig. 1G7, b) which enter the testis, there are two kinds. One set round and cord-like, but of different lengths, is attached posteriorly to the mediastinum, and serves to maintain the shape of the testis. The other set forms delicate membranous septa, which divide the mass of seminal tubes into lobes, and join the mediastinum, like the rest. Within the tunica albuginea is a thin vascular layer, tunica vas- culosa (Sir A. Cooper), which lines the fibrous coat, covering the different septa in the interior of the gland. It is formed of the ramifications of the bloodvessels, united by areolar tissue, like the pia mater of the brain : in it the arteries are subdivided before they are distributed on the secerning tubes, and the small veins are collected into larger trunks. Form and length of the seminal tubes (tubuli seminiferi). The secerning or seminal tubes are very convoluted, and are but slightly held together by fine areolar tissue and surrounding blood-