* is to be made to the dissection of the tongue, Section 15. HYOID AND STYLOID MUSCLES. 96 On the hyo-glossus are placed, from below upwards, the hypo-glossal £^jjde of nerve, the Whartonian duct, and the gustatory nerve, the latter crossing the duct ; and near the inner border of the muscle the two nerves are united by branches. Beneath the same muscle lie, from below upwards, the lingual artery with its vein, the stylo- hyoid ligament, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Above the hyo- glossus is the mucous membrane of the mouth, with the sublingual gland attached to it in front, and some fibres of the superior con- strictor muscle covering it behind near the jaw. Between the chin and the os hyoides, along the middle line, is and along1 situate the genio-hyoid muscle ; and larger and deeper than it is middle lme- a fan-shaped muscle, the genio-hyo-glossus. Along the outer side of the last muscle lie the ranine vessels ; and a sublingual branch for the gland of the same name springs from the lingual artery at the inner border of the hyo-glossus. On the under surface of the tongue, near the margin, lies the gustatory nerve; and in the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus runs the hypo-glossal nerve. The hyo-glossus muscle (fig. 22,*) is thin and somewhat square Hyo-glossus in shape. The muscle arises from the lateral part of the body of atSchment * the os hyoides (basio-glossus), and from all the great cornu of the same bone (cerato-glossus). The two pieces form a thin sheet, and enter the hinder part and side of the tongue ; they will be seen afterwards to mingle with fibres of the palato- and stylo- glossus.0 The parts in contact with the surfaces of the hyo-glossus have in contact been already enumerated ; and beneath the muscle also are portions parts.man5 of the genio-hyo-glossus and middle constrictor. Along the anterior border is the genio-hyo-glossus muscle. Action. When the tongue is at rest the muscle can bring that Use_: organ to the floor of the mouth, drawing down the sides and tongue free; giving a rounded form to the dorsum; but if the tongue is protruded from the mouth, the fibres will retract it into that cavity. If the tongue is fixed against the roof of the mouth by other tongue muscles, even though the lower jaw is vdepressed, this muscle with fixed* the genio-hyo-glossus will elevate the os hyoides, and allow swallowing to take place. The stylo-glossus (fig. 22, 2) is a slender muscle, whose attach- styio- ments are expressed by its name. Arising from the styloid process §lossils near the apex, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, the muscle is continued forwards to the side of the tongue. Here it gives ^™e^ft(> fibres to the dorsum, and turning to the under surface, extends to tongue, the tip of the tongue. Beneath the jaw this muscle is crossed by the gustatory nerve. Action. Both muscles will raise the back of the tongue against Use of both * A third part (chondro-glossus) is distinct from the others, and is not dis- sected ; it ends on the upper surface of the tongue near the root. For further details respecting the anatomy of this and the other lingual muscles, reference