LOBES AND FISSURES OF LIVER. 509 The Spigelian lobe, D, lies behind the transverse fissure, and spigelian, forms a roundish projection on the surface. On its left side is the longitudinal fissure ; and on its right, the vena cava inferior. The caudate lobe, E, is a slight, elongated eminence, which is and caudate directed from the Spigelian lobe behind the transverse fissure, so lobe' as to form the posterior boundary of that sulcus. Where the fissure terminates this projection subsides in the right lobe. Fissures. Extending horizontally half across the right part of Three the liver between the Spigelian and caudate lobes on the one hand, lssmc 1 1 " and the square lobe on the other, is the transverse or portal fissure. Fig. 156 * It is situate nearer the posterior than the anterior border, and con- portal or tains the vessels, nerves, ducts, and lymphatics of the liver. At ranbverse> the left end it is united at a right angle with the longitudinal fissure. The longitudinal fissure, F, extends from the front to the back of longitudi- the liver, between the right and left lobes. In it anterior to the nal' transverse fissure lies the remnant of the umbilical vein (c), which is called round ligament, and is oftentimes arched over by a piece of the hepatic substance (pons hepatis). In it behind that fissure is contained a small obliterated cord (d), the remains of the vessel named ductus venosus in the fetus. The groove for the vena cava is placed on the right side of the one for the Spigelian lobe, and is frequently bridged over by the liver. If the vena eava" cava (a) be opened, two large and some smaller hepatic veins will be observed entering it. Fossa?. On the under surface of the right lobe are three depres- Fossa- beneath. * Under surface of the liver. A. Right, and B, left lobe. c. Quadrate lobe. d. Spigelian, and e, caudate lobe, f. Longitudinal fissure, g. Gall- bladder, a. Vena cava. b. Vena portse. c. Round ligament, d. Obliterated ductus venosus. e. Common hepatic duct. /. Cystic duct. g. Common bile duct. h. Hepatic artery.