DISSECTION OF THE FACE. bone. The fibres are directed inwards, spreading out at the same time, and end in an aponeurosis, which covers the cartilaginous part of the nose, and joins the tendon of the opposite muscle. This muscle is partly concealed by the next—the common elevator of the ala of the nose and the upper lip. Action. It stretches the skin over the cartilaginous part of the nose. The LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS AL2EQUE NASI (fig. 5, 2) is placed by the side of the nose, and arises from Fig. 5.* the top of the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, internal to the attachment of the orbicularis. As the fibres descend from the inner part of the orbit, the most internal are attached by a narrow slip to the wing of the nose, whilst the rest are blended inferiorly with the orbicularis oris. Near its origin the muscle is partly con- cealed by the orbicularis palpebrarum, but in the rest of its extent it is subcutaneous. Its outer border joins the elevator of the upper lip. Action. As the name expresses, it can raise the upper lip, and draw outwards the wing of the nose, dilating the aperture ; but when the mouth is shut it can enlarge the nostril independently of the lip. Dilatator Naris. In the dense tissue on the outer side of the nostril are a few muscular fibres, both at the fore and back part of that aperture (fig. 5, 4, and 5), to which the above name has been given by Theile : they are seldom visible without a lens. The anterior slip, 4, passes from the cartilage of the aperture to the integument of the margin of the nostril; and the posterior, °, arising from the upper jawbone and the small sesamoid cartilages, ends also in the integuments of the nostril. Action. The fibres enlarge the nasal opening by raising and everting the outer edge. The depressor al^ nasi (fig. 5,6) will be seen if the upper lip is everted, and the mucous membrane is removed from the side of the fraenum of the lip. It arises below the nose from a depression of the upper jawbone above the roots of the second incisor and canine teeth ; and ascends to be inserted into the septum nasi and the posterior part of the ala of the nose. Action. By drawing down and turning in the edge of the dilated nostril, it restores the aperture to its usual size. Muscles of the Eyelids. The muscles of the eyelids and eye- brow are four in number, viz. orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator * Muscles of the nose. 1. Pyramidalis nasi. 2. Common elevator of the nose and lip. 3. Compressor naris. 4 and 5. The two slips of the dilatator naris. 6. Depressor alae nasi. 7. Orbicularis oris, attached to the septum nasi.