672- DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Connec- tions. Use, the foot being free, and fixed, Flexor longus digitorum. Origin. Enters annular ligament. Part is su- perficial "be- low soleus. Use, with foot free, and fixed. Tibialis posticus. Origin. Insertion. Muscles and vessels in connection with it. Use, with foot free, the tibialis. Inferiorly the tendon of the muscle enters a groove in the astragalus, and crosses the sole of the foot to its insertion into the great toe. Above, the muscle is covered by the soleus ; but below, it is superficial, and is in contact with the fascia. It lies on the fibula and lower end of the tibia, and conceals the peroneal vessels. Along the inner side are the posterior tibial nerve and vessels : and contiguous to the outer margin, but separated by fascia, are the peronei muscles. Action. The foot being unsupported, the flexor bends the last phalanx of the great toe, and extends then the ankle. The foot resting on the ground, the muscle raises the heel ; and it moves back the fibula as the body rises from stooping. The flexor longus digitorum (fig. 207, E flexor perforans) arises from the posterior surface of the tibia, extending from the attach- ment of the soleus to about three inches from the lower extremity; and from the aponeurosis covering the tibialis posticus. Its tend on enters a partition in the annular ligament, which is superficial to the sheath of the tibialis ; and it divides in the sole of the foot into tendons for the four outer toes. The muscle is narrow and pointed above, and is placed beneath the soleus ; but in the lower half it is in contact with the fascia, and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve lie on it. The deep surface rests on the tibia and the tibialis posticus. Action. The muscle bends the farthest phalangeal joints of the four smaller toes, and then extends the ankle. If the toes are in contact with the ground, the flexor helps to raise the heel in walking ; and to move back the tibia in the act of rising from stooping. The tibialis posticus (fig. 207, D) occupies the interval between the bones of the leg, but it crosses over the tibia inferiorly to reach the inner side of the foot. The muscle arises from an aponeurosis superficial to it, and from the interosseous membrane, except about one inch below ; from an impression along the outer border of the tibia, which reaches from the head of the bone to rather beyond the attachment of the flexor longus digitorum ; and from the adjacent inner surface of the shaft of the fibula as far down as the lowest fifth. In the lower part of the leg the muscle is directed beneath the flexor digitorum ; and its tendon, entering the inner space in the annular ligament, reaches the inner side of the foot to be in- serted into the scaphoid and other bones (p. 687). The tibialis is concealed by the aponeurosis before mentioned, and is overlapped by the neighbouring muscles ; but in the lower part of the leg it is placed between the tibia and the long flexor of the toes. On the muscle are the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The upper end presents two pointed processes of attach- ment—that to the tibia being the highest—between which the anterior tibial vessels are directed forwards. Action. Its action on the moveable foot is to shorten the inner border by drawing down the scaphoid bone, and to extend the ankle