133 THE CHEEK AND TEETH. The mucous membrane is less sensitive on the hard than the soft Lining of boundaries of the mouth ; it lines the interior of the cavity, and the mouth» is reflected over the tongue. Anteriorly it is continuous with the tegument, and posteriorly with the lining of the pharynx. The epithelium covering the membrane is of the scaly variety. epithelium, Between each lip and the front of the corresponding jaw the differs in membrane forms a small fold—frenulum. On the bony part of paits' the roof it blends with the dense tissue covering the vessels and on roof, nerves. On the soft palate it is smooth, and thinner ; and along the middle of the roof is a ridge which ends in front in a small papilla. In the floor of the mouth the membrane forms the floor, framum linguse beneath the tip of the tongue, and sends tubes into the openings of the Whartonian and sublingual ducts ; whilst on each side of the frgenum it is raised into a ridge by the sub- cheek, and lingual gland. On the interior of the cheek and lips the mucous lips" lining is smooth, and is separated from the muscles by small buccal and labial glands. Over the whole cavity, but especially on the lips, are papillae for Papiihe. the purpose of touch. The cheek extends from the commissure of the lips to the ramus Cheek; of the lower jaw, and is* attached above and below to the alveolar extent process of the jaw on the outer aspect. The chief constituent of and struc- the cheek is the fleshy part of the buccinator muscle, on theture- inner surface of this is the mucous membrane ; and on the outer the integuments, with some muscles, vessels, and nerves. The parotid duct perforates the cheek near the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The lips surround the opening of the mouth; they consist chiefly Lips, of the fleshy part of the orbicularis oris muscle, covered externally formed by by integument, and internally by mucous membrane. The lower lip is the larger and more moveable of the two. Between the muscular structure and the mucous covering lie the labial glands; and in the substance of each lip, nearer the inner than the outer surface, and at the line of junction of the two portions of the contains orbicularis, is placed the arch of the coronary artery. artery. Teeth. In the adult there are sixteen teeth in the jaw, which Teeth, are set in the alveolar borders in the form of an arch, and are sur- a?raiigement rounded by the gums. Each dental arch has its convexity turned iri Jaw ; forwards; and, commonly, the arch in the maxilla overhangs that in the mandible when the jaws are in contact. The teeth are similar in the half of each jaw, and have received the following names :—the most anterior two are incisors, and the one next behind is the canine tooth ; two, still farther back, are the bicuspids ; and the last three are molar teeth. Moreover, the last molar tooth different has been called also " dens sapientiee," from the late period of its kmds- appearance. The names applied to the teeth indicate very nearly the part they perform in mastication ; thus the incisor and canine Use in mas- teeth act as dividers of the food, whilst the bicuspid and molar teeth lca 10 serve to grind the aliment. The several parts of the teeth, viz. the crown, fans;, and neck ; Fuller notice 1 1 1 07 elsewhere.