409 NERVE HOOTS AND GANGLION. the dura mater, and enter the two points of the intervertebral ganglion. The intervertebral ganglion (fig. 123). Each posterior root is pro- Niimber of vided with a ganglion (c). The ganglia are reddish in colour, and form oval in shape whilst they are surrounded by the dura mater ; and cons^ruc their size is proportioned, to that of the root. By means of the tion. previous dissection, the ganglion may be seen to be bifid at the Each is inner end (fig. 123 b), where it is joined by the bundles of fibrils hlM' of the root (b) ; it might be said to possess two small ganglia, one for each bundle of fibrils, which are blended at their outer ends. Sometimes the first or suboccipital nerve is without a ganglion. The anterior or aganglionic roots (fig. 123 a) arise from the side Anterior of the spinal cord by filaments which are attached irregularly—not ^tnout in a straight line, and approach near the middle fissure at the lower ganglion, end of the cord. Taking the same direction as the posterior root to the inter- pierces vertebral foramen, the fibrils enter a distinct opening in, and have a™iaSs a separate sheath of the dura mater. In their further course to the posterior trunk of the nerve they are gathered into two bundles (fig*. 123, B, c&), ganglion, and pass over the ganglion without joining it. Finally the anterior root blends with the posterior beyond the ganglion, to form the trunk. Characters of the roots. Besides variations in the relative size of Characters the two roots, the following characters are to be noted :— Union of the fibrils. The fibrils of contiguous anterior roots may Some sets be intermingled, and the fibrils of the neighbouring posterior roots n s may be connected in a like manner ; but the anterior is never mixed with the posterior root. Size of the roots to each other. The posterior root is larger than Poi].tjri0gSt the anterior, except in the suboccipital nerve ; and the number of ° * the fibrils is also greater. Further, the posterior is proportionally proportion- larger in the cervical than in any other group ; in the dorsal nerves fnne^i?6^ there is but a very slight difference in favour of the hinder root. Size of both roots along the cord. Both roots are larger where the Roots in- nerves for the limbs arise, than at any other part of the cord ; and jown. they are greater in the nerves to the lower than in those to the upper limbs. They are smallest at the lower extremity of the cord. Direction and length of the roots. As the apertures of transmission Oblique in from the spinal canal are not opposite the place of origin of the ieir comse- nerves, the roots must be directed more or less obliquely. This obliquity increases from above down ; for in the upper cervical nerves the roots are horizontal, but in the lumbar and sacral nerves *° they have a vertical direction around the end of the medulla spinalis. The appearance of the long fibrils around the end of the cord (fig. 124) resembles the extremity of a horse's tail, and bears appro- and form priately the term cauda equina. equina. The length of the roots increases in proportion to their obliquity. Length Between the origin and the intervertebral foramen for the lowest cer- increases vical nerve the increase amounts to the depth of one vertebra ; in the from abovc lowest dorsal nerve it equals the depth of two vertebrae ; and in the down-