CORPUS SPONGIOSUM URETHRA. 581 spaces without the intervention of capillaries. Some of the finest twigs end in tufts of short, slightly curled and dilated vessels—the helicine arteries of Muller (fig. 182, e), which project into the inter- helicine trabecular spaces, and are imbedded in the thin coat of the veins artenes- (/) : with the extremities of these twisted vascular bodies fine fibrous processes are connected. The helicine arteries exist in greatest number at the back of each corpus cavernosum. The veins fill the interstices of the areolar structure, and anas- Veins are tomose freely together to form venous plexuses ; and into them fo^plex^ the terminal branches of the arteries pour their contents. By means uses: Fig. 182.* of the apertures in the septum the veins of opposite sides commu- nicate freely. The erectile condition of the corpus cavernosum is produced by the distension of the plexuses. The chief veins of the corpus cavernosum escape at the crus penis ending of with the artery, and join the pudic vein ; but others issue along the tnem- upper and under aspects, to end in the dorsal vein and the prostatic plexus (p. 565). Corpus spongiosum uretJirce (fig. 177). This constituent part of the Spongy penis surrounds the urethra, but not equally on all sides ; for at j^p^mV* the bulb only a thin stratum is above the canal, whilst at the glans penis (fig. 179, I) it is placed chiefly above the urethral tube. Pos- teriorly an offset of the corpus spongiosum is continued beyond the bulb around the urethra. Structure. The tissue of the corpus spongiosum is similar to that its structure of the corpus cavernosum : thus it consists of a fibrous tunic en- nous?aV6r" closing a trabecular structure with bloodvessels. The fibrous covering is less dense and strong than in the corpora The fibrous cavernosa, and consists only of circular fibres. A septal piece (fig. case: * Magnified view of the trabecular structure and arteries of the penis, a. Branch of an artery and its ramifications in the bands of the spongy structure of the penis, b. c. Trabecular structure, d. A fine arterial twig ending in e, a tuft of the twisted or helicine arteries. The dark shadowing, /, represents a vein incasing the bundle of vessels (Miiller).