343 LEFT VENTRICLE OF HEART. so as to reach the auricle. On raising the triangular flap the interior of the cavity will be visible. The cavity of the left ventricle (fig. 101) is longer, and more Form of left conical in shape than that of the opposite ventricle ; and is oval or ventncle* almost circular, on a transverse section. The apex of the cavity reaches the apex of the heart. The base Apex, is turned towards the auricle, and is not sloped like that of the Base with its right ventricle ; in it are the openings into the aorta (11) and the ^^s^3, left auricle (I). The walls of this ventricle are thickest, and the anterior boundary Walls, is formed by the septum ventriculorum. Its surface is irregular, like that of the right ventricle, in con- inner sur- sequence of the projections of the fleshy columns, or carnea3 columnge 5 fleshy but near the great artery (aorta) the surface is smoother. There columns> are three sets of fleshy columns in this as in the right ventricle. But the set (musculi papillares), which project into the cavity, and and some receive the small tendinous threads of the valve, are the most marked : very arge' these are arranged chiefly in two large bundles, and spring from the anterior and posterior walls of the cavity. The aperture into the left auricle (I auriculo-ventricular) is placed Left auri- 1 . . culo-ventri- beneath the orifice of the aorta, but close to it, only a thin fibrous Clliar aper- band intervening between the two. It is rather smaller than the ture- corresponding aperture of the right side, being somewhat more than ^m and an inch in diameter, and is longest in the transverse direction. Placed, as before said, beneath the aortic aperture, it extends also Position, to the right, so as to lie beneath the left extremity of the right auriculo-ventricular opening. It is furnished with a membranous it has a valve (mitral) which projects into the ventricle. large valve- The mitral valve is stronger and of greater length than the tri- ^^al cuspid, and has also firmer and more tendinous cords : it takes its name from a fancied resemblance to a mitre. Attached to a fibrous ring around the aperture, as well as to the aortic fibrous ring, it is divided below by a notch on each side into two pieces. Its seg- segments, ments lie one before another, with their edges directed to the sides, and their surfaces towards the front and back of the cavity. The anterior tongue of the valve intervenes between the auricular and aortic openings, and is larger and looser than the posterior. The mitral resembles the tricuspid valve in its structure and office, structure, Its segments consist of thicker and thinner parts ; and in the notches at the sides there are also thinner pieces between the two primary segments. The tendinous cords ascend to be attached to the valve attachmen in the notches between the tongues ; and they end on the segments of cords- in the same way as in the tricuspid valve. Each of the large papil- lary muscles acts on both portions of the valve. When the blood enters the cavity, the pieces of the valve are Use. raised as on the right side, and meet to close the passage into the left auricle. In combination with the tricuspid it assists in pro- ducing the first sound of the heart. The opening of the aorta1 anterior to that of the auricle, is next Aortic open- the septum of the ventricles. Its aperture is round, and rather mg