32 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Examine structure of lids. Layer of orbicularis. A fibrous layer. Cartilage forms part of the lid : difference in the two lids. Ligament of eyelids attaches cartilages. Sebaceous tubes beneath cartilage. their structure. Tendon of Superficial to this framework are the integuments with a layer of fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and beneath it the mucous lining of the conjunctiva. The upper lid includes also the tendon of the levator palpebral. Vessels and nerves are contained in the lids. Dissection. The student may learn the structure of the lids on the left side, on which the muscles are dissected. The bit of tow or wool may remain beneath the lids ; and the palpebral part of the orbicularis muscle is to be thrown inwards by an incision around the margin of the orbit. In raising the muscle care must be taken of the thin membranous palpebral ligament beneath, and of vessels and nerves of the lid. Orbicularis palpebrarum. The palpebral fibres of this muscle form a pale layer which reaches the free edge of the eyelids (p. 23). A thin stratum of areolar tissue without fat unites the muscle with the skin. The palpebral ligament is a stratum of fibrous membrane, which is continued from the margin of the orbit to join the free edge of each tarsal cartilage. At the inner part of the orbit the ligament is thin and loose, but at the outer part it is somewhat thicker and stronger. The tarsal cartilages, one for each eyelid, are elongated trans- versely, and give strength to the lids. Each is fixed internally by the ligament of the eyelids ; and externally by a fibrous band— external tarsal ligament, to the outer side of the orbit. The margin corresponding with the edge of the lid is free, and thicker than the rest of the cartilage. On the inner surface each cartilage is lined by the mucous membrane or conjunctiva. The cartilages are not alike in the two lids. In the upper eyelic?,. where the cartilage is largest, it is crescentic in shape, and is about half an inch wide in the centre ; and to its fore part the tendon> of the levator palpebras is attached. In the lower lid the cartilage is a narrow band, about two lines broad, with borders nearly straight.. Ligament of the eyelids (tendo palpebrarum, internal tarsal liga- ment) is a small fibrous band at the inner side of the orbit, which serves to fix the lids, and is attached to the anterior margin of the lachrymal groove in the upper jaw. It is about a quarter of ai* inch long, and divides into two processes, which are united with the tarsal cartilages one to each. This ligament crosses the lachry- mal sac, to which it gives a fibrous expansion ; and the fleshy fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum arise from it. The Meibomian glands or follicles are placed in grooves on the ocular surface of the tarsal cartilages. They extend, parallel to one another, from the thick towards the opposite margin of the cartilage ; and their number is about thirty in' the upper, and twenty in the lower lid. The apertures of the glands open in a line at the free border of the lid near the posterior edge. Each gland is a small yellowish tube, closed at one end, and having minute lateral csecal appendages connected with it. Each contains a sebaceous secretion, and is lined by flattened epithelium. If the palpebral ligament be cut through in the upper lid, the-