R 2 PECTORALIS MAJOR MUSCLE. 213 of which are directed across the axilla to the arm, and receive the name intercosto-humeral. The lymphatic glands of the axilla are arranged in two sets : one Lymphatic is placed along the inner side of the bloodvessels j and the other ^^diia: occupies the lower and hinder parts of the space, lying near and along the posterior boundary. Commonly they are ten or twelve in number ; but in number and size they vary much. Small vas- cular twigs from the branches of the axillary vessels are furnished to them. The glands by the side of the bloodvessels receive the lymph- atics of the arm ; and those along the hinder boundary are joined by the lymphatics of the fore part of the thorax and posterior sur- face of the Back, as well as by some from the mamma. Most of the efferent ducts finite to form a trunk, which opens into the lym- end in the phatic duct of the neck of the same side ; some may enter separately lymphatic the subclavian vein. The pectoralis major, A, is triangular in shape, with the base at Pectoralis the thorax and the apex at the arm. It arises internally from the muscle- front of the sternum, and the cartilages of the true ribs except the ^elt^nd111 last ; superiorly from the sternal half of the clavicle ; and inferiorly clavicle, from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. From this wide origin the fibres take different directions,—those from the clavicle being inclined obliquely downwards, and those from the lower ribs upwards beneath the former; and all end in a tendon, which is inserted into the outer edge of the bicipital groove insertion of the humerus for about two inches. humerus. This muscle bounds the axilla anteriorly, and is connected some- times to its fellow by fibres in front of the sternum. Besides the superficial structures and the mamma, the platysma covers the pec- toralis major close below the?elavicle. A lengthened interval, which parts cover- corresponds with a depression on the surface, separates the clavicu- mg ltj lar from the sternal attachment. One border (outer) is in contact the^borders, with the deltoid muscle, and with the cephalic vein and a small artery ; and the lower border forms the margin of the anterior fold of the axilla. The parts covered by the muscle will be seen sub- sequently. Action. If the humerus is hanging, the muscle will move for- Use on the wards the limb until the elbow reaches the front of the trunk, and iangmg' will rotate it in. When the limb is raised, ;the pectoralis depresses and adducts it; raised, and acting with other muscles inserted into the opposite side of the humerus, it may dislocate the head of that bone when the lower end is raised and fixed, as in a fall on the elbow. Supposing both limbs fixed as in climbing, the trunk will be and fixed raised by both muscles ; and the ribs, can be elevated in laborious limb- breathing. Dissection (fig. 70). The great pectoral muscle is to be cut across Dissection, now in the following manner :— Only the clavicular part is to be first divided, so that the branches Cut clavicu - of the nerve and artery to the muscle may be found. Reflect the J^^^^ral