PANCREAS AND DUCT. 505 The absorbent vessels consist of two sets as in the small intestine ; absorbents, after leaving the gut they join the lymphatic glands along the side of the colon. THE PANCREAS. The pancreas (fig. 143, tf) is a narrow flattened gland, from six Form and to eight inches in length, which has some resemblance to a dog's length' tongue. It is larger at the right than the left end ; and it is divisions, divided into head, tail, and body. The head, or the right extremity, occupies the concavity of the Situation, duodenum ; and the left extremity, or the tail, is rounded, and touches The head the spleen. andtall; The body of the gland is narrowest a little to the right of the and the vertebral column, and is thickest at the upper border ; it measures body* about one inch and a half in breadth, and from half an inch to an inch in thickness. The connections of the pancreas with surround- ing parts are described at p. 484. Dissection. Let the pancreas be placed on the anterior surface, Trace out and let the excretory duct be traced from the head to the tail by the duct" cutting away the substance of the gland. The small duct will be recognised by its whiteness. Structure. The pancreas consists of separate lobules, and is it is a provided with a special duct. It is destitute of a distinct capsule ; giand°with- but it is surrounded by areolar tissue, which projects into the interior, and connects together its smaller pieces. The fluid secreted capsule, by it assists in the digestion of the aliment. The lobules are soft and loose, and of a grayish white colour, and Texture and are united into larger masses by areolar tissue, vessels, and ducts. ^nstitution Each consists ultimately, as in the parotid, of the fine branchings like the of the excretory duct, which end in closed vesicular extremities, and Ja^(aJy are surrounded by a plexus of vessels. In the vesicles the epithelium is spheroidal. The duct of the pancreas (fig. 148, d, canal of Wirsung) extends The duct of the entire length of the gland, and is somewhat nearer the lower 16 ° a ' than the upper border. It begins in the tail of the pancreas, where extent; it presents a bifurcated extremity ; and as it continues onwards to the head, it receives many branches. It finally ends by opening branches: into the duodenum, either in union with, or separate from the common bile duct (p. 497). Of the tributary branches, the largest is derived from the head of the pancreas. The duct measures f rom Tyth to y^-th of an inch in diameter near size and the duodenum. It is formed of a fibrous and a mucous coat: the ^^^m latter is lined by a cylindrical epithelium, and is provided with and glands, small glands in the duct and its largest branches. Vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. The arteries and veins have been Vessels and described (p. 485) ; and the lymphatics join the lumbar glands. neives* The nerves are furnished by the solar plexus.