SUPERFICIAL EXTENSORS OF ANKLE. The outer head is fixed by tendon to a pit on the outer surface of the corresponding condyle, above the attachment of the popliteus muscle, and to the upper and hinder part of the same condyle. The ends Wow fleshy fibres of the two heads are united along the middle line by a in tendo narrow thin aponeurosis, and terminate inferiorly with the soleus in c 1 1&' the common tendon of insertion. One surface is covered by the fascia. The other is in contact with Parts the soleus and plantaris, and with the popliteal vessels and the £°vftre(1 internal popliteal nerve. The heads, by which the muscle arises, assist to form the lateral boundaries of the popliteal space : and the fleshy inner one descends lower than the outer. In the outer head a piece of fibro-cartilage or a sesamoid bone may exist. Action. When the foot is unsupported, the gastrocnemius extends Use with the ankle; and when the toes rest on the ground, it raises the os freef00* calcis and the weight of the body,* as in standing on the toes, and and fixed, in progression. Taking its fixed point at the os calcis, the muscle draws down Acting from the femur so as to bend the knee-joint. below. Dissection. To see the soleus, the gastrocnemius is to be reflected Detach by cutting across the remaining head (fig. 206), and the vessels and nrius.°Cne~ nerves it receives. After the muscle has been thrown down, the soleus and plantaris must be cleaned. The soleus (fig. 206, B) is a large flat muscle, which is attached Soleus is to both bones of the leg. It arises from the head, and the upper th^bones^ third or half of the posterior surface of the shaft of the fibula ; of the leg, from the oblique line across the tibia, and from the posterior edge of this bone in the middle third ; and between the bones from an and ,-oing aponeurotic arch over the large bloodvessels. Its fibres are directed bgjj^ndon downwards to the common tendon. The superficial surface of the soleus is in contact with the gast ro- Parts over cnemius ; and where the two touch they are aponeurotic. Beneath the soleus lie the bones of the leg, the deep layer of muscles, and and under the vessels and nerves. lt- Action. In its action on the foot the soleus, like the gastro- Use, cnemius, extends the ankle and points the toes when the foot is the foot free to move ; and raises the heel if the toes rest on the ground. free' By the sudden and powerful contraction of the fibres of both ^p^^ muscles, the common tendon is sometimes broken across. tendon. If it acts from the os calcis, it will draw back the bones of the Acting from leg into a vertical position over the foot, as the body is raised to below- the erect posture after stooping. Tendo Achillis (fig. 206, F). The common tendon of the gastro- ^chillis- cnemius and soleus is one of the strongest in the body. About three inches wide above, it commences at the middle of the leg, though extent> it receives fleshy fibres on the under surface nearly to the lower end : below it is narrowed, and is inserted into the lower half of tioninSer" the tuber calcis at the posterior aspect. A bursa intervenes between it and the upper part of the tuberosity. The tendon is close beneath the fascia ; and lying along its outer side, but superficial to it, are the external saphenous vein and nerve.