172 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. thorax, with the description of the ligaments of the spine (p. 373). Should the student examine them in the neck, to see their difference in this region of the spine, he should leave uncut the neural arches of the three highest cervical vertebra?, to which special ligaments are attached. Special ligaments unite the first two cervical vertebrae to each other and to the occipital bone : some of these are external to, and others within the spinal canal. The ligaments outside the spinal canal are thin fibrous membranes, which connect the bodies and arches of the first two vertebrae in Fig. 46.* and occipital fr0nt and behind : and ioin the atlas with the occipital bone at the bone. ' J r same aspects. Capsular ligaments surround the articular surfaces of all the bones ; but these will be examined more conveniently after the spinal canal has been opened. Posterior Union of the atlas with the axis. The posterior ligament (atlo-axoid) and ^ggt 47, 2) is a thin loose membrane, which is attached by one margin to the neural arch of the atlas, and by the other to the corresponding arch of the axis. Below the surface are some deeper and stronger fibres. The posterior primary branch of the second nerve pierces it. anterior The anterior ligament (fig. 46,3) unites the bodies of the first two atlo-axoid vertebrse in the same manner as the preceding ligament connects their arches. It is thickest in the middle, and anterior Union of the atlas ivith the occipital hone. The anterior ligament (occipito-atloid) (fig. 4G, 2) is thin and wide, and passes from the basilar process of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen mag- num to the body of the atlas. The middle part of the ligament, which is fixed to the tubercle on the front of the atlas, is much the thickest. Special ligaments T>etween first two vertebrae * External ligaments in front between the atlas and axis and the occipital bone (Bourgery). 1. Sawn basilar process. 2. Anterior occipito-atloid. 3. Anterior atlo-axoid. 4. Articulation of the articular processes cut open.