OLFACTORY REGION. 137 Characters in lower part of nose, on bones and in sinuses. Apertures of glands ; Fig. 32.* are entirely closed by the membrane, viz., incisor, the holes in the <|*ll^rsisliecl cribriform plate, spheno-palatine, and the foramen for the nasal it. nerve and vessels ; but the apertures that lead to the sinuses and the orbit are only somewhat diminished by the lining they receive. The membrane is stretched over the opening of the ductus ad nasum, forming a flap or valve to close the aperture. The characters of the membrane in the lower or respiratory por- tion of the nose differ greatly from those of the same layer in the olfactorial region near the roof. In the lower region of the nose, through which the air passes to the lungs, the membrane is thick, and closely united to the sub- jacent periosteum and perichondrium; and on the margins of the two inferior spongy bones it is projected somewhat by the large submucous vessels, so as to increase the extent of surface. In the canals and sinuses it is very thin. Near the nostril it is furnished with papillse, and small hairs (vibrissas). The surface is covered by the apertures of branched mucous glands, which are in greatest abundance, and of largest size, about the middle and posterior parts of the nasal fossa. In this lower region of the nose, and in the sinuses, the epithelium is of the columnar ciliated kind; but it becomes laminated or scaly in the dilata- tion or vestibule inside the nostril (fig. 31,'»). The olfactory region (fig. 32) is situate at the top of the nasal cavity, and is confined to the surface of the roof formed by the cribriform plate of the eth- moid ; to a portion of the outer wall constructed by the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone : and to a corresponding extent of the septum, viz., about one third. The mucous membrane in the olfactory region receives the olfactory nerve, and is therefore the seat of the sense of smell. It differs much from that in the lower portion of the nose, for it is less strong and vascular ; and is of a yellowish colour, which is due to pigment in the epithelium and the glands. The epithelium (fig. 32 a) is thicker but softer here than lower Epithelium. * Magnified vertical section of the mucous membrane of the nose (altered from Henle). A. 1. Columnar epithelium at the free surface. 2. Granular or middle layer of the same. 3. Deepest layer of elongated cells placed vertically. 4. Secreting tubular glands. b. a. Pieces of the columnar epithelium greatly enlarged, h. Olfactorial cells amongst the epithelium particles.