ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. 629 The patellar branch springs from the nerve near the knee joint, and a pa- and perforating the sartorius muscle and the fascia lata, ends in the tellar offset- integument over the knee (fig. 190, 5). B. The deep or muscular part of the anterior crural nerve (fig. 195) From gives branches to all the muscles of the front of the thigh, except arise the tensor vaginae femoris; and it supplies also an offset to one of the adductor muscles, viz., the pectineus. "^f A slender nerve (fig. 193, 2) crosses beneath the femoral artery, branches to and enters the anterior surface of the pmtinms: sometimes there pectmeus» are two. Branches to the sartorius are furnished by the middle, or by the sartorius; internal cutaneous nerve, whilst it is in contact with that muscle. A nerve enters the under surface of the rectus, and divides into rectus; branches as it is about to penetrate the fibres. The nerve to the vastus extemus separates into two or more pieces vastus ex-^ as it enters the muscle. From one of these an articular filament is knee joint; continued downwards to the knee joint, which it enters on the ante- rior aspect. The nerve to the vastus interims (fig. 195) is nearly as large in f^rnusUS size as the internal saphenous, in common with which it often arises. To the upper end of the vastus it furnishes one or more branches, and is then continued as far as the middle of the thigh, where it ends in offsets to the muscle and the knee joint. Its articular branch is prolonged on or in the vastus, and on the J^j^J611" tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner side of the knee joint; to knee, and it is distributed over the synovial membrane on the front of the articulation. This small nerve accompanies the deep branch of the anastomotic artery (p. 624). A hrancli of nerve to the tensor vaginw femoris is derived from of the superior gluteal (p. 644) ; it enters the under surface of the vaginae, muscle, and extends nearly to the lower end. Directions. After the examination of the muscles of the front of T^eraxt the thigh, with their vessels and nerves, the student is to learn the tors, adductor muscles, and the vessels and nerves which belong to them. PARTS ON THE INNER SIDE OF THE THIGH. The muscles in this position are the three adductors,—longus, ^en^^"s brevis, and magnus, with the gracilis and pectineus ; these have the ^ following position with respect to one another. Internal to all and position, the longest, is the gracilis. Superficial to the others, are the pec- tineus and the adductor longus ; and beneath the last two are the short adductor and the adductor magnus. In connection with the muscles, and supplying them are the pro- Vessels, funda artery (of the femoral) and its branches, with the accom- panying vein. The obturator nerve lies amongst the adductor muscles, and fur- Nerve, nishes branches to them. Dissection. For the preparation of the muscles, the investing Dissection