586 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Mucous layer over genitals : its papillae, epithelium, and glands. Mucous membrane. The mucous covering of the external genitals is furnished throughout with papillse, but these are largest on the labia minora and the clitoris. Its epithelium is laminar. Sebaceous glands open on the contiguous surfaces of the labia majora and minora, and beneath the prepuce ; and mucous glands and follicles exist on the vestibule, and on the inner surface of the nymphse. GENERATIVE ORGANS. Separate vagina and uterus : clean vagina. The generative organs are the uterus and vagina, and the ovaries with the Fallopian tubes. Dissection. The viscera are now to be separated, so that the bladder and the urethra may be together, and the vagina and the uterus remain united. The bladder is to be set aside for subsequent use. The surface of the vagina and the lower part of the uterus should be cleaned ; but the peritoneal investment of the latter is to be left untouched for the present. THE VAGINA. Vagina: extent and curved course. Form and size. Interior lias columns and rugae. Thickness. An erectile structure in the wall. Erectile tissue forms semi- bulbs : The tube of the vagina is connected with the uterus at one end, and with the vulva at the other (fig. 173, 1). It has a curved course between the two points mentioned ; and the anterior and posterior walls are not equal in length, for the former measures about four inches, and the latter five or six. In the body the vagina is flattened from above downwards, so that the opposite surfaces'may be in contact, but the upper end is rounded where it is joined to the uterus. Its size varies at different spots :—thus the external orifice which is surrounded by the con- strictor vaginae muscle is the narrowest part ; the middle portion is the largest ; and the upper end is intermediate in dimensions be- tween the other two. After the vagina has been laid open by an incision along the upper wall, the position of the uterus in that wall, instead of the extremity of the passage, may be remarked ; and the tube may be seen to extend higher on the posterior than the anterior aspect of the cervix uteri. On the inner surface, towards the lower part, is a slight longitudinal ridge both in front and behind, named columns of the vagina. Before the tissue of the vagina has been distended, other transverse ridges or rugse pass between the columns. The wall of the vagina is thicker anteriorly around the urethra than at any other part of the canal. Structure. The vaginal wall is formed by a spongy erectile tissue, covered externally by a layer of unstriated muscle, and lined by mucous membrane. At its lower end the tube is surrounded by a band of the fibres of the sphincter vaginas muscle (p. 434). The erectile tissue is more abundant at the ends than the middle of the vagina, and is greatest in quantity below where it gives in- creased thickness to the Avail. Two masses, one on each side of