128 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. Beginning of oesophagus. Soft palate at back of mouth : surfaces, borders; from it hangs uvula. Arches or pillars I anterior, posterior. Constituents of velum. Dissect levator and tensor on right half. The sides are sloped from before back, and are formed by folds of the mucous membrane extending between the arytsenoid cartilages and the epiglottis. Posteriorly it is limited by the corni- cula laryngis, and by the arytsenoideus muscle covered by mucous membrane. During respiration this aperture is unobstructed, but in the act of deglutition it is closed by the epiglottis. The opening into the oesophagus, o, is the narrowest part of the pharynx, and is opposite the cricoid cartilage and the fifth cervical vertebra. At this spot the mucous membrane in the oesophagus becomes paler than in the pharynx ; and the point at which the pharynx ends is marked externally by a slight contraction, and by a change in the direction of the muscular fibres. The soft palate, q (velum pendulum palati) is a moveable struc- ture between the mouth and the pharynx, which can either close the opening of the mouth, or cut off the passage to the nose, accord- ing as it is depressed or elevated. In the usual position of the soft palate (the state of relaxation) the anterior surface is somewhat curved, and is continuous with the roof of the mouth, whilst the opposite surface is convex and turned to the pharynx. The upper border is fixed to the posterior margin of the hard palate ; and each lateral part joins the pharynx. The lower border is free, and presents in the centre a conical pendulous part—the uvula, p. Along its middle is a slight ridge, indicative of the original separa- tion into two halves. Springing from the lower part of the soft palate, near the uvula, are two folds on each side, containing muscular fibres, which are directed downwards on the sides of the fauces. These are named arches or pillars of the palate, and are distinguished from one another by their relative position. The anterior, I, reaches from the fore part to the side of the tongue near the middle ; and the posterior, L, longer than the other, is continued from the lower border to the side of the pharynx. As they diverge from their origin to their termination, they limit a triangular space in which the tonsil lies. The velum consists of an aponeurosis, with muscles, vessels, nerves, and mucous glands ; and the whole is enveloped by the mucous membrane. Dissection. Some of the muscles of the palate are readily dis- played, but others require care in their dissection. On the right side the two principal muscles of the soft palate— the elevator and tensor, are very plain. These have been partly dissected on the right side ; but to follow them to their termination, let the upper attachment of the pharynx on the same side, and the part of the superior constrictor which arises from the internal ptery- goid plate, be cut through. The levator will be fully laid bare by the removal of the mucous membrane, and a few muscular fibres covering its lower end. The tendon of the tensor palati should be followed round the hamular process of the pterygoid plate ; and its situation in the palate beneath the levator should be made evident. The position of the Eustachian tube with respect to those muscles should be ascertained.