DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 470 Divisions. Cpecum, or head of colon: situation and connec- tions. Ascending colon. Parts around. Connections of the trans- verse colon: is most movable. Descending colon : situation, and perito- neum. Sigmoid flexure is in left iliac fossa. becoming straighter (rectum) it passes through the pelvis to end on the surface of the body. It is divided into six parts, viz. caecum, ascending colon, transverse colon, descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and rectum. The ccecum (fig. 140, /) (caput caecum) or the commencement of the colon, is placed in the right iliac fossa, in which it is fixed by the peritoneum being stretched over it. In front usually are con- volutions of the small intestine, but when it is distended it touches the abdominal wall. Behind, it rests on the iliac fascia, only fatty and areolar tissues intervening. On the inner side it is joined by the small intestine ; and it presents inferiorly a worm-like piece— the vermiform appendix. Sometimes the peritoneum surrounds the caecum, and attaches it by a process to the abdominal wall. The ascending colon (fig. 140, g) reaches from the caecum to the under surface of the liver, on the right of the gall bladder. It lies against the quadratus lumborum inferiorly, but higher up it is placed in front of the kidney. To its inner side are the convolutions of the small intestine. The peritoneum fixes the colon immovably to the wall of the abdomen, and surrounds commonly about two thirds of the circumference ; but it may encircle the tube, and form a fold behind, as in the caecum. The transverse colon (fig. 140, h) passes obliquely upwards and to the left, along the curvature of the stomach, as far as the spleen ; in this course it is deeper at each end than in the middle, and forms the arch of the colon by being thus bent. Above the arch are placed the liver and the gall bladder, the stomach, and the spleen : and below, is the small intestine. In front lies the great omentum ; and behind is a long process of peritoneum, the transverse meso-colon, which attaches it to the back of the abdomen, and contains its vessels and nerves. The transverse colon is more movable than any other part of the large intestine,—its peritoneal fold allowing it to be raised on the margin of the ribs. Small pieces of peritoneum, containing fat, the appendices epiplo'icce, are attached along it. The descending colon (fig. 140 i) commences below the spleen, and reaches to the left iliac fossa. At first it is placed deeply in the left hypochondriac region ; and its whole course is deeper than that of-the right colon. In front of it are the convolutions of the small intestine ; and behind it are the diaphragm, the outer part of the kidney, and the quadratus lumborum. This part of the intestine is smaller than either the right or the transverse portion, and is less surrounded, commonly, by the peri- toneum ; but its upper end is attached to the diaphragm by a firm process (pleuro-colic) of that membrane. The sigmoid flexure of the colon (fig. 140, k) is lodged in the left iliac fossa, to which it is attached by a process of the peritoneum, the sigmoid meso-colon, but it often hangs in the cavity of the pelvis. The intestine makes two turns like the letter S, and has obtained its name from that circumstance. Its extent is from the