60 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. intenmis- Layers of the membrane are prolonged between the muscles ; and cular strata, beneath the sterno-mastoideus is connected with the sheath of the cervical vessels. One of these, beneath the sterno-thyroid muscle, descends in front of the great vessels at the root of the neck to the arch of the aorta and the pericardium. ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. Anterior triangular space. Dissection of anterior triangle. Trace •arteries. Seek longi- tudinal nerves. and trans- verse nerves. Spinal accessory. Laryngeal nerves. •Clean gland, seek nerve to mylo- liyoid. Boundaries. This space (fig. 15) contains the carotid vessels and their branches, with many nerves ; and it corresponds with the hollow on the surface of the neck in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To define the anterior triangular space and its contents take away the deep fascia of the neck, and the fat, but without injuring or displacing the several parts. First clean the surface of the hyoid muscles that cover the windpipe, leaving untouched the anterior jugular vein. The trunks into which the large carotid artery bifurcates are to be followed upwards, especially the more superficial one (external carotid), whose numerous branches are to be traced as far as they lie in the space. In removing the sheath from the vessels, as these appear from beneath the muscles at the lower part of the neck, the dissector should be careful of the small descending branch of the hypo-glossal nerve in front of it. In the sheath between the vessels (carotid artery and jugular vein) will be found the pneumo-gastric nerve, and behind the sheath lies the sympathetic nerve. Seek the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the space in the direction of a line from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, with several nerves directed transversely. Thus lying below them is the hypo-glossal nerve, which gives one branch (descendens noni) in front of the sheath, and another (small) to the thyro-hyoid muscle. Above the muscles, and taking a similar direction between the two carotid arteries, are the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. Directed downwards and backwards from beneath the same muscles to the sterno-mastoideus, is the spinal accessoiy nerve. On the inner side of the vessels, between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, the dissector will find the superior laryngeal nerve ; and by the side of the larynx, with the descending part of the superior thyroid artery, the small external laryngeal branch. Clean then the submaxillary gland close to the base of the jaw ; and on partly displacing it from the surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, the student will expose the small branch of nerve to that muscle with the submental artery. The interval between the jaw and the mastoid process is supposed to be already cleaned by the removal of the parotid gland in the dissection of the facial nerve. Limits of the space. Behind, is the sterno-mastoid muscle, 1 ; and in front, a line from the chin to the sternum, along the middle of