187 ORIGIN OF CRANIAL NERVES. tract,—those of the right nerve being continued to the left side, to the opposite eye, and vice versa. And the most internal are con- tinued through the tract of the other side back to the brain without entering the eye. At the front of the commissure, are placed some transverse fibres, which are prolonged to the eyeballs through the portion of each nerve in front of the commissure, but have not any connection with the tracts and the brain. The part called nerve extends from the commissure to the eye- Trunk of ball. Leaving the skull by the optic foramen, it receives a tube of nerve" dura mater, and its course in the orbit is described in p. 40. In the eyeball it ends in the retina. The third nerve (3), motor nerve of the eyeball, is round and Origin of firm, and is attached by a slanting line of threads to the inner surface of the cerebral peduncle, near the locus perforatus, and close in front of the pons Varolii. Deep origin. The deep origin is uncertain. According to Stilling,* the deep in eras fibres of the nerve pierce the jjeduncle, passing through the locus niger, and cerebri, enter a nucleus of gray substance near the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The fourth or trochlear nerve (4) cannot be followed back- Origin of wards at present to its origin. It is the smallest of the cranial from cere- nerves, and is attached to the valve of Vieussens over the fourth bellum> ventricle (fig. 68,4). The nerve appears between the cerebrum and the cerebellum, on the side of the eras cerebri; and is directed forwards to enter an aperture in the free edge of the tentorium cerebelli near the posterior clinoid process. Deep origin. In entering the valve of Vieussens, filaments of the nerves of and Sylvian opposite sides cross and communicate. Each divides into two roots ; the aqueduct, anterior enters a nucleus of gray matter on the side of the aqueduct of Sylvius ; the posterior joins a nucleus (upper trigeminal) near the top of the fourth ventricle (Stilling). eminal is the largest of all the cranial nerves, ha and consists of two roots, ganglionic or sensory, and aganglionic or roots, motor, which are intermixed beyond the ganglion. The nerve is attached to the side of the pons Varolii, nearer the Origin from upper than the lower border (5). The small or aganglionic root is pons' highest, and is separated from the large one by two or three of the transverse fibres of the pons. Both roots pass outwards through an aperture in the dura mater, above the petrous part of the temporal bone, and are blended in the peculiar manner stated in page 18. Both roots penetrate the fibres of the pons, and are connected g^ifveii with nuclei in the floor of the fourth ventricle. tricie; Deep origin. The large root divides into two near the mass of gray matter beginning called locus cserulus (p. 229). One piece arises from the gray matter near ^0^lie lar^e the locus caeruleus (upper trigeminal nucleus) ; and the other, from a deeper nucleus, lower trigeminal, opposite the lower border of the pons, within the fasciculus teres (Stilling). The small root begins with the fourth nerve in the upper trigeminal nucleus and of small near the top of the fourth ventricle (Stilling). * Untersuchungen iiber den Ban des Hirnknotens.