PERIOSTEUM OF ORBIT. Section IV. DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Directions. The orbit should be learnt on that side on which the muscles of the face have been seen. Position. In the examination of that cavity the head is to be Position of . the bead. placed in the same position as for the dissection of the sinuses of the base of the skull. Dissection. For the display of the contents of the orbit, it will be How to open necessary to take away the cotton wool from beneath the eyelids, ^ith saw, To remove the bones forming the roof of the space, two cuts may be made with a saw through the margin of the orbit, one being- placed at the outer, the other near the inner angle of the cavity ; and these should be continued backwards with a chisel, along the chisel, roof of the orbit, so as to meet near the optic foramen. The piece of bone included in the incisions is now to be tilted forwards, but is not to be taken away. Afterwards the rest of the roof of the orbit, which is formed by j^^116 the small wing of the sphenoid bone, is to be cut away with the bone forceps, except a narrow ring around the optic foramen ; and any overhanging bone on the outer side, which may interfere with the dissection, may be likewise removed. During the examination of the cavity the eye is to be pulled gently forwards. The periosteum of the orbit, which has been detached from the Periosteum bone in the dissection, surrounds the contents of the orbital cavity, of orblt- and joins the dura mater of the brain through the sphenoidal fissure. It encases the contents of the orbit like a sac, and adheres but loosely to the bones. Apertures exist posteriorly in the mem- Apertures brane for the entrance of the different nerves and vessels ; and 1111' laterally prolongations of the periosteum accompany the vessels and nerves leaving the cavity. Dissection. The periosteum is next to be divided along the middle Open of the orbit, and to be taken away. After the removal of a little pen0 eum" fat, the following nerves, vessels, and muscles come into view ; but it is not needful to remove much of the fat in this stage of the dissection. The frontal nerve and the supra-orbital vessels lie in the centre ; Position of the lachrymal nerve and vessels close to the outer wall; and the cavity!!11 6 small fourth nerve at the back of the orbit : all these nerves enter the cavity above the muscles. The superior oblique muscle is re- cognised by the fourth nerve entering it: the levator palpebrse and superior rectus lie beneath the frontal nerve ; and the external rectus is partly seen below the lachrymal nerve. In the outer part of the orbit, near the front, is the lachrymal gland. The frontal and lachrymal nerves should be followed forwards Trace super- to their exit from the orbit, and backwards with the fourth nerve, ftuial nerves- through the sphenoidal fissure, to the wall of the cavernous