DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 146 to gustatory "by chorda tympani. superficial petrosal, 4, which is derived from the sympathetic on the middle meningeal artery. % The branch of the stapedius muscle arises at the back of the tympanum, and reaches its muscle by a special canal. Chorda tympani. This long but slender branch of the facial nerve crosses the tympanum, and ends in the tongue. Arising about a quarter of an inch from the stylo-mastoid foramen, it enters the tympanum below the pyramid. In the cavity (fig. 35, 5), the nerve is directed forwards across the handle of the malleus and the mem- brana tympani to the Glaserian fissure, or to an aperture on the inner side, through which it leaves the tympanum. As it issues from the cavity it emits a small branch to the laxator tympani muscle (?). Outside the skull the chorda tympani joins the gustatory nerve, and continues along it to the submaxillary ganglion and the tongue (p. 98). The auditory nerve will be learnt with the ear. Entering the auditory meatus with the facial it divides into two parts, of which one belongs to the cochlea, and the other to the vestibule. Otic ganglion. At this stage of the dissection there is little to be seen of the ganglion, but the student should keep in mind that it is one of the things to be examined in a fresh part. Its situation is on the inner aspect of the inferior maxillary nerve, close to the base of the skull, and it must therefore be sought on the inner side of that nerve-trunk. Dissection (fig. 36). Putting the part in the same position as for the examination of Meckel's ganglion, the dissector should define the Eustachian tube and the muscles of the palate, and then take away the levator palati and that tube, using much care in removing the last. When some loose areolar tissue has been cleared away the internal pterygoid muscle (b) comes into view, with the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve above it; and a branch (internal pterygoid,5) descending from that nerve to the muscle. If the nerve to the pterygoid be taken as a guide, it will lead to the ganglion. To complete the dissection, saw vertically through the petrous part of the temporal bone, near the inner wall of the tympanum, the bone being supported whilst it is divided. Taking off some mem- brane which covers the ganglion, the student may follow backwards a small branch to the tensor tympani muscle ; but he should open the small tube that contains the muscle, by entering it below through the carotid canal. Above this small branch there is said to be another minute nerve (small superficial petrosal), which issues from the skull, and joins the back of the ganglion. A small twig is to be sought from the front of the ganglion to the tensor palati muscle ; and one, near the same spot, to join the sympathetic nerve on the large meningeal artery, otic gang- ^he 0TIC ganglion (gang, auriculare, Arnold, fig. 36,) is a small lion is on reddish body, which is situate on the inner surface of the inferior inferior^ °f maxillary nerve close to the skull, and surrounds the origin of the maxillary, nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle. By its inner surface the ganglion is in contact with the Eustachian tube, and at a little Auditory nerve. Otic ganglion. Dissection, to find it, to define ganglion and its branches.