50 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Two branches, temporal and malar, are to be traced forwards from it: and the junction of a filament of the lachrymal nerve with the former is to be sought in the bone. The outer wall of the orbit may be cut away, bit by bit, to follow the temporal branch to the surface of the head. The temporo-malar or orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve (fig. 26) arises in the sphenomaxillary fossa, and divides at the back of the orbit into malar and temporal branches, which ramify in the face and the side of the head with companion vessels. The malar branch (r. subcutaneus malse) is directed forwards through a foramen in the malar bone : after emerging from its foramen, this branch supplies the orbicularis, and communicates with the facial nerve (p. 38). The temporal branch ascends in a groove in the bone on the outer wall of the orbit ; and being joined by a filament from the lachrymal nerve, passes into the temporal fossa through a foramen in the malar bone : it is then directed upwards between the tem- poral muscle and the skull, and perforates the temporal fascia near the orbit (p. 8). Orbitalis muscle. At the lower and outer angle of the orbit a thin fleshy layer is sometimes well seen. The fibres cross the spheno-maxillary fissure, being attached to the edges, and are pierced by the malar branch of the temporo-malar nerve. Lachrymal Apparatus (fig. 13). The lachrymal gland, puncta, canals, and sac, constitute the apparatus by which the tears are formed and conveyed to the nose. The gland has been already described (p. 40). Dissection. A bristle should be introduced into each lachrymal canal through the punctum of the eyelid. The lachrymal sac will appear by removing the tensor tarsi and the areolar tissue from its surface, as it lies on the os unguis. The prolongation from the ligamentum palpebrarum over the sac should be defined. The puncta lachrymalia Q) are two small apertures, one for each lid, by which the lachrymal canals receive the tears. Each is situate in the free margin of the lid, about a quarter of an inch from the inner canthus, and in the elevation of the papilla lachry- malis, The lachrymal canals (fig. 13, 2 and 3) lead from the puncta, and convey the tears to the lachrymal sac ; their situation is marked by the bristles inserted in them. In their course inwards the canals lie along the ligamentum palpebrarum, one (2) above and the other (3) below it, and they are somewhat arched with the con- cavity towards each other. Internally they open near together difference in into the lachrymal sac rather above its middle. The canal in the the two hds. Upper eyelid is longer and more arched than that in the lower lid. The lachrymal sac and duct (fig. 13) extend from the inner side of the orbit to the nose, and convey the tears into the latter cavity. They form one tube, of which the upper dilated part is the sac, and the lower constricted end the duct. Orbital branch of superior maxillary nerve: its malar and tempo- ral offsets. Orbitalis muscle attach- ments. Apparatus for the tears. Dissection. Apertures in eyelids. Canals for the tears: Receptacle of the tears,