619 UPPER PART OF FEMORAL VESSELS. about a third of an inch near Poupart's ligament; and the internal cutaneous branch of the nerve approaches the artery, or lies on it, near the apex of the containing space. Crossing beneath the vessels is the nerve of the pectineus (2). Unusual position. Some examples of transference of the main artery of the Unusual limb from the front to the back of the thigh have been recorded. In these position, cases the vessel passed from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic notch, and accompanied the great sciatic nerve to the popliteal space. The branches of the artery in Scarpa's space are the superficial Branches, epigastric and circumflex iliac, two external pudic, and the deep femoral branch. The cutaneous offsets have been seen (p. 606), with the exception of the following, which lies at first beneath the fascia lata. The inferior external pudic artery (fig. 193, e) arises separately An external from, or in common with the other pudic branch (superior). It Pudic- courses inwards over the pectineus muscle to end in the teguments of the scrotum or the labium pudendi, according to the sex, and it perforates the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh to reach its destination : in the fat it anastomoses with branches of the superficial perinseal artery. The deep femoral branch (fig. 195, 2) or the profunda, is the largest Profunda, offset of the femoral artery, and arises from the outer side of that trunk one or two inches (Quain) below Poupart's ligament. It is Origin consumed in the muscles of the thigh, and its distribution will be afterwards ascertained. In the present dissection it may be seen to and position lie over the iliacus muscle, where it gives the external circumflex t^ai^ie*3,S artery to the outer part of the thigh ; and then to turn, with a large vein, beneath the trunks of the femoral vessels to the inner side of the limb.* Variation in origin. The origin of the profunda may approach nearer to Origin of Poupart's ligament until it arrives opposite that band ; or may even go beyond, Pro?unda and be fixed to the external iliac artery (one example, Quain). And the branch may recede farther and farther from the ligament, till it leaves the parent trunk at the distance of four inches from the commencement; but in this case the circumflex branches usually arise separately from the femoral. In applying a ligature to the femoral artery in the upper part of the thigh, the thread should be placed four inches below Poupart's ligament, in order that the spot chosen may be free from the disturbing influence of so large an offset. Femoral Vein (fig. 193, ft). The principal vein of the limb, whilst Femoral in the triangular space, has almost the.same relative anatomy as the first inside artery : its position to that vessel, however, is not the same through- tlie arteiT> out. Beneath Poupart's ligament it is on the inner side of the arterial trunk, and on the same level, and is supported on the pubes between the psoas and pectineus muscles ; but it soon winds beneath jJjgJJJr^ the artery, and appears on the outer side opposite the upper border of the adductor longus muscle. Occasionally it is inside the artery * Sometimes the term common femoral is applied to the trunk above the origin of the profunda, and the names superficial and deep femoral to the nearly equal pieces into which it divides.