411 SPINAL CORD. with the intraspinal veins, join in the skull the inferior cerebellar veins, or the inferior petrosal sinuses. The spinal cord (medulla spinalis) is the elongated rounded part of the cerebrospinal centre, which is enclosed within the spinal canal. Invested by the membranes before examined, the medulla occupies about two-thirds of the length of its canal, and is much smaller than the bony case surrounding it. The extent of the spinal cord is from the upper border of the atlas to the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra, but its termination inferiorly may be a little higher or lower than that spot. In the embryo before the third month the medulla reaches throughout the spinal canal, but it gradually recedes as the surrounding bones enlarge faster than it, until it takes the position it has in the adult. Its length is usually from fifteen to eighteen inches. Superiorly the cord joins the medulla oblon- gata ; and inferiorly it becomes pointed, being sometimes marked by one or two swellings, and ends in the fibrous prolongation, named the central ligament of the cord or filum terminale (fig. 124, d). The size of the spinal cord is much increased where the nerves of the limbs are attached. There are therefore two enlargements on it, viz., cervical and dorsal : the one in the neck reaches from the third cervical to the first dorsal vertebra ; the other in the Back is smaller, and is on a level with the last dorsal vertebra. In the upper enlargement the greatest thickness is from side to side ; but in the lower swelling the measurement from before back rather ex- ceeds the other. Whilst the pia mater remains on the cord, the anterior surface is distinguished from the posterior by a central fibrous band and the anterior spinal artery ; and by the irregular line of the anterior nerve-roots, which approach the middle towards the lower end. Dissection. For the examination of the struc- ture the student should possess a piece of the medulla which has been hardened in spirit, for the cord which is 1 * Membranes of the spinal cord laid open, to show the lower end of the cord with the filum terminale. a. Dura mater, and b, the fibrous band fixing it to the coccyx, c. Pointed lower end of the cord. d. Filum terminale of the cord.