643 GLUTEAL VESSELS AND NERVE. the outer surface of the hip bone between the crest and the supe- arises from rior curved line, except behind where there is a surface of bone hip bone' free from muscular fibres ; and many superficial fibres come from the strong fascia covering the front of the muscle. The fibres con- verge to a tendon, which is inserted into an impression across the and inserted outer surface of the great trochanter, extending from the tip into tro- behind to the root in front. chanter. ■ The superficial surface is concealed in part by the gluteus maxi- Connec- mus ; and the deep is in contact with the gluteus minimus, and the tlons' gluteal vessels and nerve. The anterior border lies over the gluteus minimus, and is in contact with the tensor of the fascia lata. The posterior is contiguous to the pyriformis, only the gluteal vessels intervening. A small bursa is interposed between the tendon of insertion and the trochanter. Action. The whole muscle abducts the hanging femur ; and the Use with anterior fibres rotate in the limb. In walking it is combined with hanging, the adductors in moving forwards the femur. Both limbs resting on the ground the muscles assist in fixing the both limbs pelvis. In standing on one leg this gluteus will aid in balancing fixed; the pelvis on the top of the femur. onTieg.8 °n Dissection. When the gluteus medius is detached from the pelvis, Detach and partly separated from the gluteus minimus beneath, the gluteal l^tos^e" vessels and nerve will come into view. The two chief branches gluteal ves- of the artery,—one being near the iliac crest, and the other lower se s down,—are to be traced through the fleshy fibres as the reflection of the gluteus is proceeded with ; and the main piece of the nerve and nerve, is to be followed forwards to the tensor vaginse femoris muscle. The branches of the artery and nerve to the gluteus medius will be cut in removing that muscle. The gluteal artery (fig. 198, a) is the largest branch of the inter- Gluteal nal iliac (p. 563), and issues from the pelvis above the pyriformis aiteiy 1S muscle. On the dorsum of the hip bone it ends in offsets which divided into supply the gluteal muscles and the bone. Its named branches are two* superficial and deep :— The superficial branch supplies offsets to the integuments, and Superficial some deeper twigs over the sacrum ; it ends in the gluteus maxi- mus, which it penetrates on the under surface. The deep branch (fig. 199, a) is the continuation of the artery, Deep and subdivides into two pieces which run between the two smaller glutei. One (6, superior) courses along the origin of the gluteus minimus (supplying mostly the medius) to the front of the iliac crest, where it anastomoses with the ascending branch of the exter- this has an nal circumflex artery. The other portion (c, inferior) is directed lower forwards over the middle of the smallest gluteal muscle, with the piece, nerve, towards the anterior lower iliac spine where it enters the tensor of the fascia lata, and communicates with the external cir- cumflex branch (p. 628) : many offsets are furnished to the gluteus minimus, and some pierce that muscle to supply the hip joint. Vein. The companion vein with the artery enters the pelvis, and Gluteal ends in the internal iliac vein. vem* T T 2