DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 332 small nutritive bronchial arteries and veins, and some nerves and lymphatics. The large vessels and the air tube have the following position to one another :— their reia- On both sides the bronchus is most posterior, the pulmonary tionP°Si" vems m°st anterior, and the pulmonary artery between the other two. In the direction from above down the position on the right side is, bronchus, pulmonary artery, and pulmonary veins ; but on the left side the bronchus and artery have changed places, con- sequently the relative position will there be, artery, bronchus, and veins. This difference in the two sides may be accounted for by the left branch of the air tube being at a lower level than the right. THE PERICARDIUM. Pericar- dium. Clean ves- sels of heart. First aorta, then inno- minate veins and branches, and upper cava. Seek small nerves cross^ ing arch of aorta. Dissect superficial plexus in arch of aorta. The bag containing the heart is named the pericardium. It is situate in the middle of the thorax, in the interval between the pleurae of opposite sides. Dissection. Supposing the surface of the pericardium to be already cleaned, the student should next dissect out the large vessels con- nected with the heart; and trace the nerves. The large artery curving to the left above the heart is the aorta, which furnishes three trunks to the head and the upper limbs, viz., innominate to the right, next left common carotid, and left subclavian. On its left side lies the large pulmonary artery. Above the arch of the aorta a large venous trunk, left innominate, crosses over the three beforesaid arteries, and ends by uniting on the right side with the right innominate vein in the upper cava. Several small veins, which may be mistaken for nerves, ascend over the aorta, and enter this trunk. Define the branches of this vein, and especially one crossing the aortic arch towards the left side, which is the left superior intercostal vein (fig. 350, £.). The large vein by the side of the aorta which enters the top of the heart is the upper cava : look for the azygos vein opening into it behind. Seek the following nerves of the left side which cross the arch of the aorta :—The nerve most to the left, and the largest, is the vagus ; the next largest in size on the right of the vagus is the phrenic. Between xhe preceding nerves, and close to the coats of the artery, are the two following,—the left superficial cardial nerve of the sympathetic, and the cardiac branch of the left vagus ; of the two, the last is the smaller, and on the right of the other. The cardiac nerves from the left vagus and sympathetic are to be pursued onwards to a small plexus (superficial cardiac) in the con- cavity of the aorta. An offset of the plexus is to be traced down- wards between the pulmonary artery and the aorta towards the anterior coronary artery of the heart ; and another prolongation is to be found coming forwards from the deep cardiac to the superficial plexus : this dissection is difficult, and will require care. When the pericardium is afterwards opened the nerves will be