CONNECTIONS OF UTERUS. 559 from before backwards. Unless enlarged, it lies below the brim of form and the pelvis, between the bladder and the rectum ; and it is retained sltuatlon : in place by the ligaments. Its wider end is free and placed upwards and the lower end communicates with the vagina. This viscus is directed forwards, so that its position is oblique in position to the cavity of the pelvis ; and a line through its centre would corre- peivis. spond with the axis of the inlet of the pelvic cavity. Axis. The anterior flattened surface is covered by peritoneum, except in Surfaces, the lower fourth where it is in contact with the bladder. The posterior surface, rounded, is invested altogether by the serous membrane. The upper end (fundus) is the largest part of the organ, and is in Extremities, contact with the small intestine. The loiver end, or the neck (cervix) is received into the vagina. To each side are attached the broad ligament with the Fallopian On the side tube, the round ligament, and the ovary. are— The Fallopian tube, m, four inches long, is contained in the upper Fallopian or free border of the ligament. One end is connected to the uterus tube' close to the fundus, whilst the other is loose in the cavity of the pelvis. At the uterine end the tube is of small size, but at the opposite extremity it is dilated like a trumpet, and fringed, forming the corpus flmbriaturn. The round or suspensory ligament, n, is a fibrous cord about five [°rl^ent inches long, which is directed outwards through the internal abdomi- °' nal ring and the inguinal canal to end in the groin. This cord lies over the obliterated hypogastric, and the external iliac artery ; and it is surrounded by the peritoneum, which accompanies it a short way into the canal. The ovary, l, is placed nearly vertically, and bulges at the and the posterior aspect of the broad ligament; it is connected to the uterus ovary and at the inner end by a special fibrous band, one inch and a half in length, the ligament of the ovary. Its form is oval, and its margins its ligament, are turned forwards and backwards. Its size is very variable. The vagina (fig. 173, *) is the tube by which the uterus commit- ^tent and nicates with the exterior of the body. It is somewhat cylindrical form; in shape, though flattened from above down ; and its length is about five inches. As it follows the bend of the rectum it is slightly length; curved ; and its axis corresponds below with the centre of the out- axis- let, but higher up with that of the cavity of the pelvis. Above the vagina are the base of the bladder, and the urethra ; Connec- and beneath or below it is the rectum. It is transmitted through tlonb' an opening in the recto-vesical fascia, which sends a sheath along the lower half of the tube. The upper end receives the neck of the uterus by an aperture in the anterior or upper wall; and the lower end, the narrowest part of the canal, is encircled by the sphincter vagina? muscle. A large plexus of veins surrounds the vagina. In children, afr<$. in the virgin, the external aperture is partly closed by the hymen. The bladder (fig. 173, H) is placed at the front of the pelvis, Bladder above the vagina and in contact with the back of the pubes.