314 DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. raised line extends from front to back, and is received into the hollow of the trochlea of the humerus. Across the bottom of the cavity the cartilage is wanting completely, or for a greater or smaller distance. End of the The end of the radius presents a circular depression with a raised margin. In the bent state of the joint the hollow of the radius fits on the outer eminence of the humerus, and the bone is supported during rotation of the limb. Kind of Movement. This joint is like a hinge in its movements, and permits motion : on]y flexion and extension. bending. In flexion the bones of the forearm move forwards, each on its own articular surface, so as to leave the back of the humerus uncovered. The extent is checked by the meeting of the bones of the arm and forearm. Owing to the slanting surface of the humerus the hand falls inside the limb when the joint is fully bent. state of liga- The ligaments are relaxed, with the exception of the following, ments; v«z^ ^Q posterior, and the hinder part of the internal lateral, extending. In extension the ulna and radius are carried back over the articular surface of the humerus until they come into a line with the arm- bone. This movement is checked by the olecranon touching the humerus. state of liga- The anterior ligament, and the fore part of the internal lateral ments, ligament are made tight, but the hinder fibres of the internal lateral are relaxed. j^inedSto Union of the Kadius and Ulna. The radius is connected with ulna. the ulna at both ends by means of distinct ligaments and synovial membrane ; and the shafts of the bones are united by interosseous ligaments. At^the upper Upper radio-ulnar articulation. In this joint the head of the radius is received into the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and is kept in place by the following ligamentous band :— orbicular The annular or orbicular ligament (fig. 91, a) is about one third around the of an inch wide, and is stronger behind than before; it is placed head of the ar0und the prominence of the head of the radius, and is attached to bone the anterior and posterior edges of the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Its upper border, the widest, is connected with the ligaments of the elbow joint; but the lower is free, and is applied around the neck of the radius. In the socket formed by this ligament and the cavity of the ulna, the radius moves freely. and synovial The synovial membrane is a prolongation of that lining the elbow membrane. jom£ . ^ projects inferiorly between the neck of the radius and the lower margin of the annular ligament. shafts °f the Ligaments of the shafts of the bones. The aponeurotic stratum connecting together the bones in nearly their whole length consists of the two following parts :— Radius is The interosseous membrane (fig. 90, 3) is a thin fibrous layer, midd^by116 which is attached to the contiguous margins of the radius and ulna, interosseous an(j forms an incomplete septum between the muscles on the front membrane: r i and back of the forearm. Most of its fibres are directed obliquely