727 CHOROIDAL COAT WITH ITS STRUCTURE. The outer surface (fig. 229) is flocculent, and is covered by the outer sur- remnants of a thin membranous layer (membrana fusca, supra-cho- faceroush ; roidea) between it and the sclerotic coat: on it may be seen small veins arranged in arches, and the ciliary arteries and nerves. The inner surface is smooth, and touches the thin dark pigmentary layer *™^th of the retina (fig. 225). The ciliary processes (fig. 227, b) are solid projections on the inner Ciliary pro- surface of the choroidal coat, and are arranged in a circle. About ' 85 in number, they lie side by side, and consist of larger and position, smaller eminences ; at their inner extremity they are united by tw0 kmds- transverse ridges. About jLth of an inch in length, they increase in depth internally ^J™^^18 and projecting around the lens, bound circumferentially by their free around. Fig. 227/ Fiff. 228.+ ends the* space (fig. 225, £, posterior chamber) behind the iris. In front they correspond with the back of the iris towards their inner end, but are separated from it by pigment ; and behind they are closely connected with the membrane (t suspensory ligament) on the front of the vitreous body, and fit into hollows between eminences on the anterior surface of that membrane. Structure. The choroid coat and its ciliary processes are formed ^oroid1'6 of principally of bloodvessels. Ramified pigment cells make up most of the rest of the coat. The stroma or web of the choroid is formed by the outrunners of its stroma, special pigment cells (fig. 228, c) which unite together, and con- struct, with fine areolar tissue, a fibrous network. Its meshes are finer towards the inner than the outer surface of the choroid. On * Inner view of the front of the choroid coat with its ciliary processes, and the back of the iris. a. Anterior piece of the choroid coat. b. Ciliary pro- cesses, c. Iris. d. Sphincter of the pupil, e. Bundles of fibres of the dilator of the pupil. + Pigment cells of the eyeball (Kolliker).—a. Ramified pigment cells of the choroid coat. b. Front view of the hexagonal cells of the pigmentary membrane.