359 STRUCTURE OF LUNG. noise known as crepitation. If the lung contains serum, a frothy red fluid will run out when it is cut. The texture of the lung is very elastic ; this elasticity causing the and elasti- organ to diminish greatly when the thorax is opened, and to expel city air that may be blown into it. The specific gravity of the lung varies with the conditions of Specific dilatation and collapse, or of infiltration with fluid. When the ° pulmonary substance is free from fluid, and filled with air, it floats in water; but when it is quite deprived of air it is slightly heavier than water, and sinks in that fluid. The weight of the lung is and weight influenced greatly by the quantity of foreign material contained in °f the lung' its texture ; ordinarily it ranges from eighteen to twenty one ounces, and the right lung is about two ounces heavier than the left. In the male the lungs are larger, and slightly heavier than in the female. Dissection. By tracing the large branches of the bronchi, and the Follow blood-vessels and nerves into the lung, the mode of branching of the vessels into air tube will be apparent; and by inflating a part of the lung, the tne luns- cellular structure may be seen. But the arrangement of the small air cells about their tube, and the disposition of the different vessels, cannot be ascertained without fine injections and a micro- scope. Structure of the Lung. The spongy pulmonary tissue consists ^J^^g of minute recesses or cells, in which the smallest branches of the of the lung, air tube terminate ; and the mass of the lung is formed by the collection of those cells into small groups or lobules, and by the aggregation of the lobules into larger masses or lobes. Each lobule is distinct from its fellows, and is furnished with its air tube and nerves, and with its set of vessels concerned in the function and nutrition. The portions of the lung are united by a serous covering, pro- Covering longed continuously over the surface ; and by a subserous layer of Ltyers?ltmS areolar tissue which penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into pieces. These several parts are examined more in detail below. Serous and subserous coverings. The casing derived from the pleura Serous is thin and transparent, and forms an entire capsule for the lung, covenns except at the root where the vessels enter. The subserous areolar layer contains fibres of elastic tissue, and not only covers the sur- J2gUereolar face, but extends inwards, establishing the division of the mass into lobules : where it separates the lobules it is named interlobular tissue, and is free from fat. Bronchial branches in the lung. When a bronchus is followed into ^a^es of the pulmonary structure it is found to divide generally in a binary m the lung, order, and to diminish in size at each subdivision, until one terminal offset appertains to a lobule. In the lobule the tube has a diameter till they end of -Jg- to ^~ of an inch. When this last degree of diminution is m cells* reached, the tube gives origin to the air cells. The larger bronchial branches have the same composition as the jj^^ce trachea, but they are round in the lung, instead of being semi- in form, elliptical as in the trachea. The smallest branches want some of