97 GUSTATORY NERVE. The lingual artery (fig. 17,/), arises from the external carotid Lingual between the superior thyroid and facial branches. At first it is artery directed inwards above the os hyoides, and then upwards beneath ^tongue the hyo-glossus to the under part of the tongue (fig. 23) ; it ends beneath hyo- at the anterior border of that muscle in the sublingual and ranine s ossus* branches. Near the hyo-glossus the artery is crossed by the ninth nerve, and by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. Beneath the hyo-glossus, the vessel rests on the middle constrictor and genio- hyo-glossus muscles, and is below the level of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Its branches are these :— a. A small hyoid branch is distributed on the upper border of the its branches os hyoides, supplying the muscles ; it anastomoses with its fellow ^e^oid of the opposite side, and with the hyoid branch of the superior bone; thyroid artery of the same side. b. A branch to the dorsum of the tongue arises beneath the hyo- to back of glossus muscle, and ascends to supply the substance of the tongue the tongue» and the tonsil. The fibres of the hyo-glossus must be divided to see it. c. The sublingual branch springs from the final division of the to the sub^ artery at the edge of the hyo-glossus, and is directed outwards to g\ancit the gland of the same name. Some offsets supply the gums and the contiguous muscles, and one continues behind the incisor teeth to join a similar artery from the other side. d. The ranine branch (9) is the terminal part of the lingual to the sub- artery, and extends forwards along the outer side of the genio-hyo- tongue, glossus to the tip of the tongue where it ends. Muscular offsets are furnished to the substance of the tongue of the same side. This artery lies along the frasnum linguse, but is embedded in the muscular fibres. The lingual vein commences on both the upper and under surfaces Lingual of the tongue. It lies with its companion artery, and ends in the vem' internal jugular vein. The gustatory or lingual nerve (fig. 23, l) has been followed Lin£ual nerve in the pterygo-maxillary region to its passage between the ramus of the lower jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle (p. 92). In this region the nerve is inclined forwards to the side of the tongue. al°ng side i n • • /. i of tongue across the mucous membrane or the mouth and the origin of the superior constrictor muscle, and above the deep part of the sub- maxillary gland. Lastly, it is directed across the Whartonian duct, and along the side of the tongue to the apex. Branches are fur- |*™sdhes nished to the surrounding parts, thus :— Two or more offsets connect it with the submaxillary ganglion, to the gan- it i j £ j_"u ±. glion, near the gland oi that name. Farther forwards branches descend on the hyo-glossus to unite to ninth in a kind of plexus with twigs of the hypoglossal nerve. Other filaments are supplied to the mucous membrane of the to mucous mouth, the gums, and the sublingual gland. membrane, Lastly, the branches for the tongue ascend through the muscular to the substance, and are distributed to the conical and fungiform papillae. PaPllla3- The submaxillary ganglion (fig. 23, 2) resembles the other ganglia