DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 298 Flexor The flexor brevis minimi digiti, f, appears often to be a part of oftenabsent ^e aDductor. Placed at the radial border of the preceding muscle, it takes origin from the tip of the process of the unciform bone, and slightly from the annular ligament ; it is inserted with the abductor into the first phalanx. Use. It lies on the abductor ; and near its origin it is separated from the abductor muscle by the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. Opponens Action. The first phalanx is moved towards the palm by this poiiicis. muscle, and the metacarpophalangeal joint is bent. The adductor vel opponens minimi digiti, g, resembles the opponens poiiicis in being attached to the metacarpal bone. Its origin is from the process of the unciform bone, and the lower part of the annular ligament : its insertion is fixed into the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The adductor is partly overlaid by the preceding muscles ; and beneath it the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve pass. Use. Action. It raises the inner metacarpal bone, and moves it towards the others, so as to deepen the palm of the hand. Dissection Dissection. The radial artery comes into the hand between the of deep arch -frrst £w0 metacarpal bones ; and to lay bare the vessel, it will be requisite to detach the origin of the flexor brevis poiiicis. The deep palmar arch, and the branch of the ulnar nerve accompanying it, together with their offsets, are to be dissected out. interossei A fascia, which covers the interossei muscles, is to be removed, fascia. when the dissector has observed its connection with the transverse ligament uniting the heads of the metacarpal bones. Radial Kadial Artery in the Hand (fig. 84). The radial artery enters hand7 m Pami at the ^rst interosseous space, between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle : and after furnishing one branch to the thumb, and another to the index finger, turns across the forms deep hand towards the ulnar side, with its vense comites, forming the arcl1 deep arch. The deep palmar arch (c) extends from the interosseous space to the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, where it joins which lies the profunda communicating branch (b). Its convexity, which is £onesarpal but slight, is directed forwards ; and its situation is nearer the carpal bones than that of the superficial arch. The arch has a deep and beneath position in the hand, and lies on the metacarpal bones and the muscles. interossei muscles. It is covered by the long flexor tendons, and Branches: in part by the flexor brevis poiiicis. The branches of the arch are the following :— Recurrent. a. Recurrent branches pass from the concavity of the arch to the front of the carpus ; these supply the bones, and anastomose with the other carpal arteries. Perforating. b. Three perfora ting arteries pierce the three inner dorsal interossei muscles, and communicate with the interosseous arteries on the back of the hand. Inter- c. Usually there are three palmar interosseous arteries (/), which osseous. occupy the three inner metacarpal spaces, and terminate by joining