87 INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. ligaments. Joint in old people. During the horizontnl motion forwards and backwards of the jaw Forward and the condyle is moved successively to the front and back of the J^ve^ent temporal articular surface ; and the lower jaw is slightly depressed, condvle in order that the fore teeth in the upper dental arch should not moves, impede those of the lower. By turns the front and back of the capsule will be stretched ; state of •and the fibro-cartilage always follows the condyle of the jaw, even lj8ament6U in dislocation. Too great motion forwards will be prevented by the coronoid process of the jaw striking against the zygomatic arch ; and that backwards, by the meeting of the condyle and the auditory process of the os temporis. Lateral horizontal movement puts the jaw first to one side and Lateral then to the other. When the jaw is forced to the left side, the Inovenient> right condyle sinks into its articular hollow, whilst the left is pro- condyle jected ; and the grinding teeth of the lower dental arch are moved 1110ves* to the left across those of the upper. By the alternate action to opposite sides the food is triturated. The inner part of the capsule on the right, and the outer part on state of the left side, will be put on the stretch when the jaw is carried to -the left of the middle line ; and the opposite. With old edentulous jaws the capsule is much enlarged, and per- mits the condyle to wander backwards behind the Glaserian fissure. Without this provision the altered lower jaw would not meet the •upper to crush the food. Dissection. The condyle of the jaw is next to be disarticulated, Dissection the external pterygoid muscle being still uncut ; and it with the nerve, attached muscle is to be drawn forwards so as to allow the fifth nerve to be seen. Whilst cutting through the joint capsule, the dissector must be careful of the auriculo-temporal nerve close be- neath (fig. 21). On drawing forwards the pterygoid muscle, and removing some fat, the dissector will find the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve. All the small muscular branches of the nerve, before noted, should be traced to the trunk in the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone. The auriculo-temporal branch should be followed backwards with care behind the articulation ; and the dental and gustatory nerves beneath the muscle should be cleaned. The small chorda tympani chorda may be found joining the posterior part of the gustatory nerve ^P^1* near the skull. The large meningeal artery and its branches are to be sought and arteries, beneath the external pterygoid. Sometimes the trunk of the internal maxillary artery lies beneath that muscle, and in such case, it and its branches are to be traced out. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY (fig. 18, 8) is One of the ter- Internal. niinal branches of the external carotid, and takes a winding course arteryfiy beneath the lower jaw and the temporal muscle to the spheno- maxillary fossa, where it ends in branches for the face, the interior of the nose, and the palate and pharynx. At first the artery is directed inwards beneath the jaw, between Course and connections. 9