PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. Ill those uniting it with other nerves, and those distributed to parts around. 0 Connecting branches (fig. 26) arise from the ganglia of the root to unite 1 - -i r, , i with others: and trunk of the vagus. o From the ganglion of the root The auricular branch (7) is the auricular chief offset, and crosses the jugular fossa to enter an aperture near ranc 1' the root of the styloid process : it traverses the substance of the temporal bone, and reaches the outer ear, on which it is distributed. Its farther course will be described with the anatomy of the ear. • One or two short filaments unite this ganglion with the spinal with spinal accessory nerve ; and a branch of the sympathetic nerve in the neck sympa-iy' enters it. Occasionally there is an offset, (10) to join the lower tiietic, (petrosal) ganglion of the glossopharyngeal nerve. From the ganglion of the trunk. Communicating filaments connect with ninth, it with the hypo-glossal nerve. Other branches pass between it thetlc1 spinal and the upper ganglion of the sympathetic, and between it and the nerves, loop of the first two cervical nerves. Branches for Distribution (fig. 25). The cervical branches arise Branches to from the inner side of the nerve, and are directed inwards, to supply supply the pharynx, the larynx, and the heart. a. The pharyngeal branch (fig. 26,13) is an offset from the upper pharynx part of the ganglion of the trunk, and terminates in the pharynx. The nerve is directed inwards over the internal carotid artery ana j0(n (fig. 25, 5), and joins the branches of the glossopharyngeal nerve |^asrs°no.eal on that vessel. Finally it courses to the side of the middle con- strictor muscle, and communicates with branches of the glosso- pharyngeal, superior laryngeal, and sympathetic nerves, to form the pharyngeal plexus. From the plexus branches are furnished to the and pharyn- constrictors, and palato-glossus and pharyngeus, and to the pliaryn- geal plexus- geal mucous membrane between the tongue and the hyoid bone. b. The superior laryngeal nerve (fig. 26, 14) is much larger than Upper the preceding branch, and comes from the middle of the ganglion wjfx to of the trunk. From this point it inclines obliquely inwards be- neath the internal carotid artery (fig. 25,6), and reaches the larynx opposite the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid car- tilage. The nerve then perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane, and is distributed to the mucous lining of the larynx. (See "Larynx.") *£.s^PP|ly. In the neck it furnishes branches to the thyroid body, and the fol- ' lowing offset to one laryngeal muscle and the pharynx :— The external laryngeal branch (fig. 25, 7) arises beneath the a branch internal carotid artery, and runs below the superior laryngeal nerve Sryn'? to the side of the larynx. Here it gives offsets to the pharyngeal plexus ; and it is continued beneath the sterno-tlryroideus to the crico-thyroid muscle and the inferior constrictor. Near its origin to crico-thy this branch communicates with the superficial cardiac branch of the pharynx, sympathetic nerve. c. Cardiac branches. Some small cardiac nerves spring from the Branches to pneumo-gastric at the upper part of the neck, and join cardiac JJ16 erand branches of the sympathetic. At the lower part of the neck, on lower, each side, there is a single cardiac nerve :—the right one enters the