149 STRUCTURE OF THE TONGUE. ceding set, amongst which they are scattered. They are wider at mostly at the free end than at the part fixed to the tongue, and project sides1;1 beyond the other set ; they are situate mostly at the tip and sides of the tongue. They are covered with small simple papillae. The circumvallate or caliciform are fewer in number and larger Caiiciform than the others, and are placed at the junction of the two anterior near r°ot of with the posterior third of the tongue : their number varies from ° ' eight to ten. These papillae extend across the tongue in a line form; resembling the letter V with the point turned backwards. Each papilla consists of a central truncated stem of a conical form, which is surrounded by a fold of the mucous membrane ; its wider end or base projects above the surface, whilst the apex is attached to the tongue. Both the papilla and the surrounding fold are fur- ■ nished with smaller secondary papilla?. Minute simple papilla? exist behind the caliciform kind, and on other the under surface of the free portion of the tongue ; but they are PaPlll8e- not observed till the epithelium is removed. Taste buds. Around each circumvallate papilla is a circle of Taste buds, small peculiar bodies, which are covered by the epithelium : each 01 is like a small carafe in shape, the base resting on the corium. They are formed of elongated epithelium-like cells, of which the gustative central, resembling olfactorial cells, are supposed to be connected cells- with the nerve of taste. A small collection of similar bodies occupies the back of the tongue, on each side, just in front of the anterior pillar of the fauces. Structure of the Papillce. The simple papilla? are constructed like structure those of the skin, viz. of a projecting cone of membrane, which is °f^PaPlll9e- covered by epithelium, and filled with a loop of capillaries, and a simPle> nerve. The other compound forms of the papilla? may be said to be pro- of com- duced by outgrowths from the simple kind. Thus smaller papillary Pre- eminences spring from the common cone of limiting membrane ; and each has its separate investment of epithelium, by which the brush-like appearance on the surface is produced. From the plexus of capillary vessels in the interior of the cone a looped offset is furnished to each smaller papillary projection. The central nerve sends offsets to the''different subdivisions of the papilla, on some of which end-bulbs may be recognised. Structure. The tongue consists of two symmetrical halves Parts found separated by a fibrous layer in the middle line. Each half is made 111 tongue- up of muscular fibres with interspersed fat; and entering it are the lingual vessels and nerves. The tongue is enveloped by the mucous membrane ; and a special fibrous layer attaches it to the hyoid bone. Dissection. To define the septum, and the membrane attaching the Define tongue to the hyoid bone, the tongue is to be placed on its dorsum ; septum; and, the remains of the right mylo- and genio-hyoideus having been removed, the genio-hyo-glossi muscles are to be cleaned, and drawn from one another along the middle line. After separating those muscles, except for an inch in front, and cutting across their inter-