502 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. more fixed: not coiled ; sacculated with bands, not in the rectum. Append- ages. Take pieces of the large intestine. Definition of caecum: length and width; receives ileum and appendix. Vermiform appendix : attach- ment ; dimensions. It is hollow. Dry the caecum, open it to see the valve. Fig. 153 * also free from convolution, except in the left iliac fossa, where it forms the sigmoid flexure. Instead of being a smooth cylindrical tube, the colon is sacculated, and is marked by three longitudinal muscular bands, which alternate with as many rows of dilatations ; but at the lower end of the large intestine (rectum), the surface is smooth, and the longitudinal bands disappear. Attached to the surface, especially along the transverse colon, are separate pieces of peritoneum containing fat,—the appendices epiploi'cae. Dissection. For the purpose of examining the large intestine the student should cut off and blow up the caecum, with part of the ileum entering it; he should prepare in a similar way a piece of the transverse colon, and a piece of the sigmoid flexure (about four inches of each). The areolar tissue and the fat are to be removed with care from each, after it has been inflated. The CiECUM, or the head of the colon (fig. 153, a, caput caecum coli) is the rounded end of the large intestine which projects, in the form of a pouch, below the junc- tion of the ileum with it. It mea- sures about two inches and a half in length, and though gradually nar- rowing inferiorly, the caecum is the widest part of the colon,—hence the name caput coli. At its inner side it is joined by the small intestine (b) ; and still lower there is a small worm- like projection (c)—the vermiform appendix. Appendix vermiformis (fig. 153, c). This little convoluted tube is attached to the lower and hinder part of the caecum, of which it was a con- tinuation in the embryo at one period. From three to six inches in length, the appendix is rather larger than a goose-quill, and is connected to the inner side of the caecum by a fold of peritoneum. Its hollow has an aper- ture of communication with the in- testine (<7). In structure it resembles the rest of the colon. Dissection. To examine the interior of the caecum, and the valve between it and the small intestine, the specimen should be dried, and the following cuts should be made in it:—One oval piece is to be taken from the ileum near its termination ; another from the side of the caecum, opposite the entrance of the small intestine. * Interior of a csecum dried and laid open. a. Ctecura. b. Small intestine. c. Vermiform appendix, and d, its aperture, e. Ileo-colic piece of the valve at the junction of the small intestine. /. Ileo-ca?cal piece of the valve, y. Retinaculum of the valve on each side.