447 TRANSVERSALIS MUSCLE. until the examination of that region in connection with hernia is resumed. On the right side the dissection is to be carried deeper by the On right removal of the internal oblique and the cremaster. The last muscle Slde reflect may be reflected from the cord by means of a longitudinal incision. cremaster To raise the internal oblique, it will be necessary to cut it through and internal firstly near the ribs ; secondly near the crest of the hip bone and oUiqne. Poupart's ligament ; and lastly at the hinder part, so as to connect the two first incisions. Its depth will be indicated by Fig. 136.* a fatty layer between it and the transversalis. In raising the muscle towards the edge of the rectus, let the student separate with great care the lower fibres from those of the transver- salis, with which they are often conjoined; and dis- sect out,between the two, the intercostal nerves and arte- ries, and the two branches of the lumbar plexus (ilio- hypogastric and ilio-ingui- nal) near the front of the crest of the hip bone. The offsets of the intercostals entering the muscle must be cut. Parts covered by the ob- lique (fig. 136). The internal oblique conceals the trans- versalis muscle, and the vessels and nerves between the two. Near Poupart's ligament it lies on the spermatic cord and the fascig transversalis. The rectus muscle is covered below by the aponeurosis. The TRANSVERSALIS MUSCLE (fig. 136, A) forms the third Stratum Transversa- lis muscle. in the wall of the abdomen, and differs from the two oblique in having a posterior as well as an anterior aponeurosis. Like the former muscle it is attached on all sides, except where the spermatic cord lies. At the pelvis it arises along the outer third of Poupart's JJ^jjJ^ ligament, and the anterior two thirds of the iliac crest. At the and pelvis. chest it takes origin from the lower six ribs, viz. by tendon from the lowest two, and by fleshy processes from the under surface of * Dissection of the third lateral muscle in the wall of the belly, with the vessels and nerves on it. A. Transversalis muscle, with b, its anterior, and c, its posterior tendon (fascia lumborum). d. Poupart's ligament. 1. Last dorsal nerve with its accompanying artery. 2. Ilio-hypogastric nerve with its artery, *ff Intercostal nerves and arteries.