DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 416 Tby loops; spinal artery above and below. And from the loops offsets (d) are furnished to the periosteum and the bodies of the vertebras. Anas- tomotic twigs connect the arches across the vertebras. The intraspinal vessels produce also a central longitudinal artery (e), like that on the front of the spinal cord, which lies on the andacen- bodies of the vertebras, and is reinforced at intervals by offsets tral vessel. from the loops. intraspinal The intraspinal veins (fig. 128) consist of two anterior longitu- iarge.are dinal vessels, which extend the whole length of the spinal canal; of veins inside the bodies of the vertebras ; and of a plexus of veins beneath the neural arches. Anterior The anterior longitudinal veins (a) are close to the bodies of the areonbo^tes vertebras, one on each side of the posterior common ligament ; and ©f vertebra, they are irregular in outline, owing to certain constrictions near the intervertebral foramina. They receive opposite the body of each vertebra the veins (c) from that bone; and through the inter- vertebral foramina they have branches of communication (a) with the veins outside the spine in the neck, the dorsal region, the loins, and the pelvis. vertebrLtlie Veins °f bodies of the vertebra*. Within the channels in the bodies of the vertebras are large veins, which join on the front of the bone with veins in that situation. Towards the back of the vertebra they are united in an arch, from which two trunks issue by the large apertures on the posterior surface. Escaped from the bone, the trunks diverge to the right and left, and open into the longitudinal veins. Posterior The posterior spinal veins form a plexus between the dura mater Irein^con^8 and the arches of the vertebras. A large vein may be said to lie archeslth on eacn s^e °^ ^ne middle line, which joins freely with its fellow, and with the anterior longitudinal vein by lateral branches. Off- sets from these vessels are directed through the intervertebral fora- mina, to end in the veins (a) at the roots of the transverse pro- cesses.