53 POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. lower part of the posterior triangle. At first the fibres of the jr£^le muscle are thin and scattered, but they increase in strength as they ascend. The oblique direction of the fibres should be noted, because in venesection in the external jugular vein the incision is to be so made as to divide them across. The use will be found with the description of the remainder of Use. the muscle (p. 59). Dissection. The platysma is to be cut across near the clavicle, Dissection, and to be reflected upwards as far as the incision over the sterno- mastoid muscle, but it is to be left attached at that spot. In raising the muscle the student must be careful of the deep fascia of the neck ; and he should dissect out the external jugular vein, with the superficial descending branches of the cervical plexus, which are olose beneath the platysma. The external jugular vein (fig. 14, 8) commences in the parotid External gland (p. 29), and is directed backwards beneath the platysma to Jusular vem the lower part of the neck, where it pierces the deep cervical fascia to open into the subclavian vein. Its course down the neck will be crosses side marked by a line from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the subclavian, -clavicle. Beyond the sterno-mastoid muscle the vein is dilated, and the swollen part (sinus) is limited by two pairs of valves,—one being situate below at the mouth of the vein, and the other near the muscle. Small superficial branches join the vein, and an offset connects it with the anterior jugular vein. Its size and the height at which it crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, are very uncertain. The deep cervical fascia, like the aponeuroses in other regions of ^eg^cal the body, consists of a superficial layer which surrounds the neck continuously, and of processes that are prolonged inwards between the muscles. In some bodies this fascia is thin and indistinct. In its extent round the neck the membrane incases the sterno- mastoideus, and presents a different disposition before and behind that muscle. As now seen passing backwards from the muscle, part behind the fascia continues over the posterior triangular space, and encloses Joidmuscle the trapezius in its progress to the spines of the vertebrae. At the lower part of the neck it is attached to the clavicle, and is perforated by the external jugular vein and the cutaneous nerves. After the superficial layer has been removed near the clavicle, a sends a pro- deep process may be observed to surround the small omo-hyoid omo-hyoid. muscle, to extend under the clavicle, and to be fixed to the back of that bone, and the inner end of the first rib. POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. This space (fig. 14), having the form and position before noted, Posterior is about eight inches in length. It contains the cervical and brachial space of*1 plexuses, with the portion of the subclavian artery on which a the neck, ligature is usually placed, and some offsets of the vessel and the nerves. Dissection. By the removal of the cervical fascia and the fat Dissection of the space.