464 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Iliac fascia. Sheath on femoral vessels. rural ring size and boundaries. Constricting boundaries, how re- laxed. Usual ves- sels around ring. The iliac fascia covers the iliacus muscle, and lies beneath the iliac vessels. At Poupart's ligament its disposition is similar to that of the transversalis fascia ; for, external to the iliac vessels, it joins the fascia transversalis along the line of the ligament ; but opposite the vessels an offset is prolonged into the posterior part of the crural sheath. The crural sheath is a loose membranous tube, which encloses the femoral vessels as they enter the thigh, and is obtained from the fascias lining the abdomen. Its anterior half is continuous with the fascia transversalis, and its posterior is derived from the fascia iliaca. The sheath is not entirely filled by the vessels, for a space (crural ring) exists on the inner side of the vein, through which the intestine descends in femoral hernia. The crural ring (fig. 139, D) is referred to also in the dissection of the thigh, but its boun- Fig. 139.* daries are better seen in the abdomen. It is the interval in the sheath, at the inner side of the femo- ral vein, which is about half an inch wide, and is filled by a lymphatic gland. Bounding it in- ternally are Gimbernat's ligament, E, and the con- joined tendon ; and limit- ing it externally is the femoral vein (b) without the intervention of the sheath. In front is Pou- part's ligament, with the deep arch ; and behind is the pubes, covered by the pectineus and the fascia lata. Along the front of the space, but at some little distance from it, lies the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Two of the boundaries, anterior and inner, are firm and sharp- edged, though their condition varies with the position of the limb ; for if the thigh is raised and approximated to its fellow, those bounding parts will be relaxed. Position of vessels around the ring (fig. 139). On the outer side is the femoral vein (b) ; and above this are the epigastric vessels (c). In front is a small branch (pubic) from the epigastric artery to the back of the pubes ; and the vessels of the spermatic cord may be said to be placed along the anterior aspect of the ring. The ring is bounded in the male by vessels in front and on the outer side. * View of the parts concerned in femoral hernia (Quain's plates). Muscles: A. Iliacus covered by the iliac fascia, b. Rectus, c. Transversalis, covered by the transversalis fascia. d. Crural ring. e. Gimbernat's ligament. Vessels: a. Iliac artery, b. Iliac vein. c. Epigastric branch, d. Circum- flex iliac, e. Obturator, with its nerve. /. Small branch joining obturator and epigastric arteries.