579 CORPORA CAVERNOSA PENIS. stratum of longitudinal unstriated muscular fibres, mixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. It is continuous behind with the sub- mucous fibres of the bladder, and is joined in the prostate by the muscular fibres accompanying the common seminal ducts. The stratum differs at spots :—It is most developed in the prostate, where it forms the projection of the crest; in the membranous portion the muscular structure is less abundant; and in the spongy part fibrous tissue forms most of the submucous layer. Around the membranous and prostatic divisions of the urethra there is, in addition, a thin enveloping layer of vascular or erectile tissue, which is continued backwards from the corpus spongiosum urethras to the neck of the bladder. Stkucture of the Penis. The form and the connections of the penis having been described in page 555, the tissues of which it is composed remain to be noticed. If a section is made along one side of the penis, it will show this body to be composed of two masses of spongy and vascular tissue (corpora cavernosa) incased in a fibrous covering, with an imperfect septum between them. Corpora cavernosa (fig. 179, r). These bodies form the bulk of the penis, and are two dense cylindrical tubes of fibrous tissue, con- taining erectile structure. Each is fixed behind by a pointed process, crus penis, to the pubic arch for about an inch ; and blends with its fellow in the body of the penis, after a distance of an inch and a half. There is a slight swelling on the cms, called the bulb of the corpus cavernosum (Kobelt). Each corpus cavernosum is composed of a fibrous case with a cavernous or trabecular structure inside, with vessels in the intervals Fig. 180.* nature; arrange- ment in urethra. Erectile tissue throughout. Penis formed of two vascular erectile "bodies. Corpora cavernosa, attached behind separately, blend . together in front; bulb. The struc- tures of which it consists. of the spongy mass. An incomplete median septum exists along the body of the penis. The fibrous case is a white, strong, elastic covering (fig. 180), a case * View of the fibres of the case of the corpus cavernosum. b. The external or longitudinal layer, a. Inner or circular fibres. 1. The pectiniform septum. P P 2