DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 510 Vessels in the transverse lissure. Hepatic- duct. Hepatic artery. Vena porta?. Umbilical vein in the fetus ; condition after birth. Lobular structure ; incased by two coats. Serous coat, where deficient. Fibrous covering is prolonged to the interior. Lobules of the liver: sions:—one for the gall-bladder to the right of the square lobe ; another for the colon, near the anterior edge ; and a third for the kidney near the posterior border. Vessels of the transverse fissure. The vessels in the transverse fissure, viz. vena portse, hepatic artery and duct, have the following position :—the duct is anterior, the portal vein posterior, and the artery between the other two. The hepatic duct (fig. 156, e) is formed by two branches—one from the right, and one from the left lobe, which soon blend in a common tube. After a distance of one inch and a half it is joined by the duct of the gall-bladder (/) ; and the union of the two gives rise to the common bile duct (g). The hepatic artery Qi) is divided into two for the chief lobes, and its branches are surrounded by nerves and lymphatics. The vena portce (h) branches, like the artery, into two trunks for the right and left lobes, and gives an offset to the Spigelian lobe ; its left branch is the longest. Fetal condition of the umbilical vein. Before birth the pervious umbilical vein occupies the longitudinal fissure, and opens pos- teriorly into the vena cava ; the portion of the vessel behind the transverse fissure receives the name ductus venosus. Branches are supplied from it to both lobes of the liver ; and a large one, directed to the right lobe, is continuous with the left piece of the vena porta?. Purified or placental blood circulates through the vessel at that period. Adult state. After birth the part of the umbilical vein in front of the transverse fissure is closed, and becomes eventually the round ligament (fig. 156, c). The ductus venosus is also obliterated, only a thin cord (d) remaining in its place. Whilst the lateral branches, which are in the same line as, and continuous with the left branch of the vena portas, remain open, and subsequently form the left division of the vena portae. Occasionally the ductus venosus is found more or less pervious. Structure of the Liver. The substance of the liver consists of small bodies called lobules or acini; together with vessels which are concerned both in the production of the secretion, and in the nutri- tion of the organ. The whole is surrounded by a fibrous and a serous coat. Serous coat. The peritoneum invests the liver almost completely, and adheres closely to the subjacent coat. At certain spots intervals exist between the two, viz. in the fissures occupied by vessels, along the line of attachment of the ligaments, and at the surface touching the gall-bladder. The fibrous covering is very thin, but it is rather stronger where the peritoneum is not in contact Avith it. It invests the liver, and is continuous at the transverse fissure with the fibrous sheath (capsule of Glisson) surrounding the vessels in the interior. When the membrane is torn from the surface, it will be found connected with fine shreds entering into the liver. Size and form of the lobules. The lobules (fig. 159, I) constitute