607 STRUCTURE OF SPLEEN. Microscopic appearances. The characters of the spleen substance cannot be ascertained without the aid of the microscope. The splenic pulp is a soft red-brown mass which is lodged in the Splenic areola of the trabecular structure. Under the microscope this col<mr and material is seen to be composed of a fine network of ramifying £?™posi" connective tissue corpuscles, with blood-cells in its meshes. The Malpighian corpuscles are small rounded whitish bodies, Malpighian about -Vth of an inch in diameter, and are connected with the outer )0C 1 s' coat of the smallest branches of the arteries ; they project into the pulp of the spleen, and are surrounded by it. In structure they are like the lymph follicles of the intestine, consisting of reticular tissue, with lymph corpuscles in its meshes, through which blood-capillaries pass. Bloodvessels. The larger branches of the splenic artery are surrounded by sheaths of fibrous tissue in the trabecule; but the smallest branches leave the sheathing, and break up into tufts of capillaries, which are said to open into the fine meshes of the spleen substance. In the smallest branches, with which the Malpighian corpuscles are united, the outer coat is thickened by lymphoid tissue, and is directly continuous with those bodies in structure. The splenic vein is supposed to begin in the meshes of the splenic pulp by open channels. From the union of these radicles arise small branches, which unite into trunks larger than the accompanying arteries, and issue by the Branches, fissure of the spleen ; in their course they receive accessory branches, some joining at a right angle. Nerves and lymphatics. The lymphatics are superficial and deep, Lymphatics, and enter the glands in the gastro-splenic omentum. In the spleen they begin in the corpuscles of Malpighi, and in the outer coat of Nerves, the smallest arteries ; they are conveyed to the hilum of the spleen on the vessels. The nerves come from the solar plexus, and sur- round the artery and its branches. THE LIVER. The liver secretes the bile, and is the largest gland in the body. {^eofthe Its duct opens into the duodenum with that of the pancreas. Dissection (fig. 156). Preparatory to examining the liver, the clean vessels at the under surface should be dissected out. This proceed- ^idel* °U ing will be facilitated by distending the vena cava and vena portae surface; with tow or cotton wool, and the gall-bladder with air through its * A drawing of the trabecular structure of the spleen of the ox, at some distance from the hilum.