VESSELS IN ABDOMINAL WALL. 453 placed behind the other vessels of the cord ; it will be recognised by its resemblance in feel to a piece of whipcord, when it is taken between the finger and the thumb. As it enters the abdomen Situation through the opening in the fascia transversalis (internal ring), it and course, lies on the inner side of the vessels of the testicle ; and as it begins its descent to the pelvis, it winds behind the epigastric artery. Cremasteric artery and nerve. The cremasteric covering of the Artery and cord has a separate artery and nerve. The artery is derived from coverings of the epigastric, and is distributed to the coverings of the cord. The the cord» genital branch of the genito-crural nerve enters the cord by the in- ternal abdominal ring, and ends in the cremaster muscle. Cutaneous vessels and nerves are supplied to the teguments of and cuta- the cord from the superficial pudic artery and the ilio-inguinal nerve. Dissection. By cutting through the spermatic cord near the pubes, ^^^^ and raising it towards the inner abdominal ring, a fibrous band below Poupart's ligament, the deep crural arch, will appear : it passes in- wards to the pubes, and is to be defined with some care. The remaining vessels of the abdominal wall, viz., the epigastric and of the and circumflex iliac, and the ending of the internal mammary the wall of artery, are to be next dissected. The epigastric and mammary abdomen, arteries will be observed on raising the outer edge of the rectus, one above and the other below, ramifying in the muscle. The epigastric, with its earliest branches, may be traced by removing the fascia transversalis from it near Poupart's ligament. The circumflex iliac artery lies behind the outer half of Poupart's ligament, and should be pursued along the iliac crest to its ending. Deep crural arch. Below the level of Poupart's ligament is a thin Deep crural band of transverse fibres over the femoral vessels, which hasaic ' received the name deep crural arch from its position and resem- blance to the superficial crural arch, (Poupart's ligament). This Attach- fasciculus of fibres, beginning about the centre of the ligament, is m 11 prolonged, inwards to the pubes, where it is widened, and is inserted into the pectineal line at the deep aspect of the conjoined tendon of the broad muscles of the abdomen.^ It is closely connected with the front of the crural sheath. Vessels in the Wall of the Abdomen. On the side of the vessels in abdomen are the intercostal and lumbar arteries with the inter- ^c}1>mmal costal nerves. In the sheath of the rectus lie the epigastric and internal mammary vessels. And around the crest of the hip-bone bends the circumflex iliac branch. The intercostal arteries (fig. 136) issue between the false ribs intercostal (p. 362), and enter the abdominal wall between the transversalis artenes ■ and internal oblique muscles : they extend forwards with the nerves, supplying the contiguous muscles, and the teguments. In front * Sometimes this structure is a firm distinct hand, which is joined by some of the lower fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. At other times, and this is the most common arrangement, it is only a thickening of the fascia transversalis with fibres added from the tendon of the transversalis muscle.