515 STRUCTURE OF GALL-BLADDER. The surface of the mucous membrane is covered by a columnar Wlth a ,. * columnar epithelium. epithelium: Where the gall-bladder ends in the cystic duct (fig. 1G0) its coats projections project into the interior, and give rise to ridges resembling those in the sacculated large in- testine. The cystic duct (b) joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle, to form the ductus com- munis choledochus. It is about an inch and a half long, and is distended and somewhat sacculated near the gall-bladder. Structure. The coats of the duct are formed like those of the sac from which it leads, but the muscular fibres are very few. The mucous lining is provided with glands, as in the hepatic and common bile ducts (p. 514). On opening the duct the mucous membrane may be observed to form about twelve semi- lunar projections (fig. 160, c), which are ar- ranged obliquely around the tube, and increase in size, towards the gall-bladder. This struc- ture is best seen on a gall-bladder which has been inflated and dried ; as in this state the parts of the duct between the ridges are most stretched. Bloodvessels and nerves. The vessels of the gall-bladder are named cystic. The artery is a branch of the hepatic ; and the cystic vein opens into the vena portre near the liver. The nerves are derived nerve and from the hepatic plexus, and entwine around the vessels. The lymphatics follow the cystic duct, and join the deep lymphatics on lymphatics, the spinal column. THE KIDNEY AND THE URETER. The kidney has a characteristic form :—flattened on the sides, it Use and is larger at the upper than the lower extremity, and is hollowed out form. at one part of its circumference. For the purpose of distinguishing To llistin_ between the right and left kidneys, let the excavated margin be g^J1^11* turned to the spinal column, with the ureter or the excretory tube behind the other vessels ; and let that end of the viscus be directed downwards, towards which the ureter is naturally inclined. With the special form above mentioned, the kidney is of a deep Colour, red colour, with an even surface. Its average length is about four size, inches ; its breadth two ; and its thickness about one inch ; but the left is commonly longer and more slender than the right kidney. * Gall bladder and its duct. a. Gall bladder, h. Bile duct sacculated. c. Ridges in the interior, d. Common bile duct. c. Common hepatic duct. L L 2