CERVICAL PLEXUS. 73 sixth nerves near the intervertebral foramina. Piercing the fibres of the scalenus lower than the preceding branch, the nerve is con- tinued behind the brachial plexus, and enters the serratus magnus muscle on the axillary surface. Branches of the scaleni and longus colli muscles. These small j^j™? twigs are seen when the anterior scalenus is divided : they arise longus colli, from the beginning of the trunks of the nerves. The suprascapular nerve is larger than either of the others. It Suprascapu- arises near the subclavian branch from the cord of the plexus ar nerve' formed by the fifth and sixth nerves. Its destination is to the muscles on the dorsum of the scapula, and it will be dissected with the arm. Occasionally an offset from the fifth cervical trunk joins the P^*^0 tlie phrenic nerve on the anterior scalenus muscle. The cervical plexus is formed by the first four cervical nerves. Cervical Situate at the upper part of the neck, it lies beneath the sterno- plexus mastoid muscle, and on the middle scalenus and the levator anguli scapulas. It differs much from the brachial plexus, for it resembles forms a a network more than a bundle of large cords. The following is the 116 w general arrangement of the nerves in the plexus :—Each nerve, Arrange- except the first, divides into an ascending and a descending branch, nerves. and these unite with similar parts of the contiguous nerves, so as to give rise to a series of arches. From these loops or arches the different branches arise :— The tranches are superficial and deep. The superficial set has Its offsets , . i •• are super- been described with the triangular space of the neck, as consisting tidal; of ascending and descending (p. 57). The ascending branches may be now seen to spring from the union of the second and third nerves ; and the descending, to take origin from the loop between the third and fourth nerves. The deep set of branches remains to and deep, be examined : they are muscular and communicating, and may be wlllchare:— arranged into an internal and an external series. Internal Series. The phrenic or muscular nerve of the dia- Phrenic nerve phragm (fig. 16) is derived from the fourth, or third and fourth nerves of the plexus ; and it may be joined by a fasciculus from the fifth cervical nerve. Descending obliquely on the surface of the anterior scalenus from the outer to the inner edge, it enters the chest in front of the internal mammary artery, but behind the sub- clavian vein, and traverses that cavity to reach the diaphragm. At the lower part of the neck the phrenic nerve is joined by a filament of the sympathetic, and sometimes by an offset of the nerve to the subclavius muscle. On the left side the nerve crosses over the first part of the subclavian artery. The branches communicating with the descendens noni are two in Nerves to number. One arises from the second, and the other from the third gcendens cervical nerve ; they are directed inwards over the internal jugular noni. vein, and communicate in front of the carotid sheath with the descending muscular branch (descendens noni) of the hypoglossal nerve. Sometimes these nerves pass under the jugular vein.