SCAPULAE. VESSELS. 387 posterior, which are united by an intervening tendon. Only the posterior half is now seen. The muscle arises from the upper border of the scapula behind the notch, and from the ligament converting the notch into a fora- men. The fibres form a thin, riband-like muscle, which is directed forwards across the lower part of the neck, and ends anteriorly in a tendon beneath the sterno-mastoideus (p. 64). The fleshy belly of the muscle is placed partly beneath the trapezius ; and is partly superficial in the posterior triangular space of the neck, where it lies above the clavicle and the subclavian artery. It crosses the suprascapular vessels and nerve, and the brachial plexus near the scapula. Action. For the supposed use of the posterior belly of the omo- hyoideus, see page 64. The suprascapular artery, a branch of the subclavian (p. 70), is directed outwards across the lower part of the neck to the dorsum of the scapula. The vessel courses behind the clavicle with the suprascapular nerve, but beneath the trapezius and omo-hyoid muscles to the supraspinal fossa. Before entering the fossa it furnishes a small branch (supra-acromial) to the upper surface of the acromion. The suprascapular nerve, an offset of the brachial plexus (p. 73), is inclined backwards to the superior border of the scapula. It passes through the notch in the upper costa of the bone, and ter- minates beneath the supraspinatus in the muscles of the dorsum of the scapula (p. 263). The transverse cervical artery, also a branch of the subclavian (p. 70), has the same direction as the suprascapular, towards the upper angle of the scapula, but is higher than the clavicle. Cross- ing the upper part of the space in which the subclavian artery lies, it passes beneath the trapezius, and divides into the two following branches—superficial'cervical and posterior scapular :— a. The superficial cervical branch is distributed chiefly to the under surface of the trapezius though it furnishes offsets to the levator anguli scapulas and the cervical glands. b. The posterior scapular branch crosses beneath the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and turns along the base of the scapula beneath the rhomboid muscles. If the rhomboid muscles are divided, the artery will be seen to furnish branches to them ; and to give small anastomotic twigs to both surfaces of the scapula. This branch arises very frequently from the third part of the subclavian trunk. The supra-scapular and transverse cervical veins have the same course and branches as the arteries above described ; they open into the external jugular, near its junction with the subclavian vein. Nerve to the rhomboid muscles. This slender nerve of the brachial plexus (p. 72) courses beneath the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and is distributed to the rhomboidei on the under surface. Before its termination it supplies one or two twigs to the elevator of the scapula. c c 2 belly of omo- hyoideus. Origin and termi- nation. Connec- tions. Use. Supra- scapular artery ends on back of scapula. Supra- scapular Transverse cervical artery divides into superficial cervical and posterior scapular. c Accompany- ing veins. Nerve of rhomboid muscle.