DURA MATER. 9 upwards in the integuments higher than the level of the ear. It communicates with the nerve on each side, viz., the posterior auricular and the great .occipital. Usually this nerve furnishes an auricular branch to the upper part of the ear at the cranial aspect, JjJJLJJJJb which supplies also the attollens aurem muscle. "branch. Section II. INTERNAL PARTS OF THE HEAD. Dissection. The skull is now to be opened, but before sawing Dissection the bone the dissector should detach, on the right side, the temporal g^en tlie muscle nearly down to the zygoma, without separating the fascia of the same name from the fleshy fibres ; and all the remaining soft parts are to be divided by an incision carried around the skull, about one inch above the margin of the orbit at the fore- head, and as low as the protuberance of the occiput behind. The cranium is to be sawn in the same line as the incision Precautions through the soft parts, but the saw is to cut only through the j^^^ii the outer osseous plate. The inner plate is to be broken through with hone, a chisel, in order that the subjacent membrane of the brain (dura mater) may not be injured. The skull cap is next to be forcibly detached by inserting the fingers between the cut surfaces in front, and the dura mater will then come into view. The dura mater is the most external of the membranes in- Dura mater, vesting the brain. It is a strong, fibrous structure, which serves as an endosteum to the bones, and supports the cerebral mass. Its outer surface is rough, and presents, now the bone is separated Appearance from it, numerous small fibrous and vascular processes ; but these surface, are most marked along the line of the sutures, where the attach- ment of the dura mater to the bone is the most intimate. Ramifying on the upper part of the membrane are branches of the large meningeal vessels. Small granular bodies, glands of Pacchioni, are also seen along p^^J^ the middle line. The number of these bodies is very variable; they are found but seldom before the third year, but generally after the seventh, and they increase with age. Occasionally the surface of the skull is indented by these so-called glands. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the interior of the dura Cut through mater, divide this membrane with a scissors close to the margin J^ter^ of the skull, except in the middle line before and behind where the superior longitudinal sinus lies. The cut membrane is then to be raised on the right side towards the top of the head ; and the veins connecting it with the brain may be broken through. The inner surface of the dura mater is smooth and polished; and inner this appearance is due to an epithelial layer similar to that lining slirface- serous membranes. ytr?z Cx.0 t"a «v This external envelope of the brain consists of white fibrous and structure,