DISSECTION OF THE JNECK. 68- Subclavian artery ; extends to upper limb, is divided into three parts. First part internal to scalenus is deep. In front, behind, below it. Veins with the artery. Position of nerves before, and beneath. Second part beneath scalenus. ]n front, behind, below. Position of veins; of nerves to the artery. The subclavian artery (fig. 16) is the beginning of the large- vessel supplying the upper limb with blood, which is thus desig- nated from its position beneath the clavicle. This vessel, (8), is derived from the branching of the innominate artery behind the- sterno-clavicular articulation, and the part of it named subclavian extends as far as the lower border of the first rib. To reach the limb the artery crosses the lower part of the neck, taking an arched course over the bag of the pleura and the first rib, and between the scaleni muscles. For the purpose of describing its numerous, connections the vessel may be divided into three parts ; the first extending from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the inner border of the anterior scalenus ; the second, beneath the scalenus ; and the third, from the outer border of that muscle to the lower edge of the first rib. First part. Internal to the anterior scalenus the artery lies deeply in the neck, and ascends slightly from its origin. Between the* vessel and the surface will be found the common tegumentary coverings with the platysma and the deep fascia; the sterno- mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles ; and a strong- deep process of fascia from the inner border of the scalenus muscle. This part of the subclavian lies over the longus colli muscle, though at some distance from it, and separated from it by fat and nerves. Below the artery is the pleura, which ascends into the arch formed by the vessel. ' Veins. The innominate vein, and the ending of the subclavian (7),, form an arch below that of the artery. The large internal jugular vein crosses the arterial trunk close to the scalenus ; and under- neath this vein, with the same direction, lies the vertebral vein.. Much more superficial, and separated from the artery by muscles., is the deep part of the anterior jugular vein. Nerves. In front of the artery lies the pneumogastric nerve, near to the internal jugular vein; and inside this, the lower cardiac branch of the same nerve trunk. Beneath the subclavian artery winds the recurrent branch of the pneumogastric ; and still deeper is the cord of the sympathetic nerve with its cardiac branches, one or more of its offsets entwining round the vessel. Second part. Beneath the scalenus the vessel is less deep than when placed internal to that muscle, and at this spot it rises highest above the clavicle. The second part, like the first, is covered by the integuments, platysma, and deep fascia; then by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoideus; and lastly by the anterior scalenus. Behind the vessel is the middle scalenus. Below the artery is tho bag of the pleura, which ascends between the scaleni. Veins. Below the level of the artery, and separated from it by the anterior scalenus muscle, lies the arch of the subclavian vein. Nerves. In front of the scalenus descends the phrenic nerve. Above the vessel, in the interval between the scaleni, are placed the large cervical nerves ; and the trunk formed by the last cervical and first dorsal is interposed between the artery and the middle scalenus.