23 MUSCLES OF EYELIDS. supercilii, levator palpebras superioris, and tensor tarsi 0 : the two latter are dissected in the orbit, and will be described with it. The ORBICULARIS PALPEBRARUM (fig. 6, 2) is the sphincter muscle Orbicularis closing the opening between the eyelids. It is a flat and thin layer, which extends from the margin of the lids beyond the circumfer- ence of the orbit. From a difference in the characters of the fibres, a division has been made of them into two parts—outer and inner, two parts. The external fibres (orbital part), the best marked, are fixed only Orbital or at one point, viz., the inner angle of the orbit. This attachment external . (origin) is connected _with the surface and borders of the small intemaUv tendo palpebrarum ; above the tendon with the nasal process of the upper maxillary, and the internal angular process of the frontal bone; and below the tendon with the superior maxillary bone, and the margin of the orbit. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, giving rise to ovals, which lie side by side, and increase in size towards the outer edge of the muscle where they project beyond the margin of the orbit. The internal fibres (palpebral part), paler and finer than the ^Jj^^1 outer, occupy the eyelids, and are fixed at both the outer and inner part, angles of the orbit. Internally (origin) they are united with the attached at tendo palpebrarum, and externally (insertion) with the externalthe ends" tarsal ligament and the malar bone, and some few may blend with the orbital part. Close to the cilia or eyelashes the fibres form a small pale bundle, which is sometimes called ciliary. .The muscle is subcutaneous ; and its circumference is blended Connection above with the occipito-frontalis. Beneath the upper half of the Wlth paitb' orbicularis, as it lies on the margin of the orbit, is the corrugator supercilii muscle with the supra-orbital vessels and nerve ; and beneath the lower half is part of the elevator of the upper lip. The outer fibres are joined occasionally by slips to other contiguous muscles below the orbit. Action. The inner fibres cause the lids to approach each other, Use of inner shutting the eye ; and in forced contraction the outer commissure aucl is drawn inwards. In closure of the eye the lids move unequally —the upper being much depressed, and the lower slightly elevated and moved horizontally inwards. When the outer fibres contract, the eyebrow is depressed, and the outer fibres, skin over the edge of the orbit is raised around the eye, so as to protect the ball. Elevation of the upper lip follows contraction of the outer part of the orbicularis, in consequence of fibres being prolonged to the levator labii superioris. The corrugator supercilii is beneath the orbicularis, near the Corrugator inner angle of the orbit. Its fibres arise from the inner part of the superuln superciliary ridge of the frontal bone, and are directed outwards to join the orbicular muscle about the middle of the orbital arch. It JJ^^^1 is a short muscle, and is distinguished by the closeness of its fibres. Action. It draws inwards and downwards the mid-part of the Use. * The tensor tarsi muscle (p. 49) is sometimes described as a part of the orbicularis.