DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 432 Accessory pudic artery, Pudic veins. Pudic nerve is with the artery and ends like it on penis. Perineal branch. Nerve of the bulb. Superficial parts cut in lithotomy, cutting down to urethra in reaching the staff ning knife along staff. Accessory pudic artery. In some cases the pudic artery is not large enough to supply the branches above described to the penis and the urethra. One or more offsets will be then contributed by an accessory vessel, which leaves the pelvis in front by piercing the triangular ligament. The source of this accessory artery is the internal iliac (p. 564). The pudic veins, two in number, have the same connections as the artery ; they receive similar branches, except that the dorsal vein of the penis does not join them. The pudic nerve has been examined in the ischio-rectal fossa (p. 422). In the anterior half of the perinasum it is much diminished in size, in consequence of the emission of the large perinseal branch, and courses with the artery between the layers of the triangular ligament; near the pubes it pierces the ligament (fig. 131, 3). and is continued to the dorsum of the penis with the dorsal branch of the pudic artery ; its termination is described at page 441. The deep muscles and the corpus spongiosum are supplied by the fol- lowing branch. Perinwal branch (p. 422). Arising in the ischio-rectal fossa it supplies superficial nerves, and ends near the base of the triangular ligament in deep muscular offsets : some of these (fig. 131, 2) pass beneath the transversalis, and piercing the triangular ligament, supply the muscles within it. A long slender branch, nerve of the bulb, is distributed like the artery to the spongy structure investing the urethra : its filaments reach some way on the surface before disappearing in the corpus spongiosum urethras. Parts cut in the lateral operation of lithotomy. This operation for stone in the bladder may be divided into three stages, viz., cutting down to the urethra, opening the canal, and slitting the tube and the neck of the bladder. In the external incisions the knife is entered near the middle line of the perinseum, half an inch in front of the anus, and is drawn backwards on the left side as far as mid- way between the ischial tuberosity and the anus. The skin and fat, and the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerve lying across the ischio-rectal fossa, will be cut in this first stage of the operation ; and the transverse perinasal muscle and artery, and, possibly, the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves, may be divided, if the first incision is begun farther forwards. In the subsequent attempt to reach the staff, when the knife is introduced into the front of the wound, the lower edge of the tri- angular ligament, the deep transverse urethral muscle, and the fore part of the levator ani will be divided ; and when the knife is placed within the groove of the staff, the membranous part of the urethra will be cut, with the muscular fibre about it. Lastly, as the knife is pushed along the staff into the bladder, it incises in its progress the membranous portion of the urethra, part of the prostate with large veins around it, and the neck of the bladder. When the last two parts are being cut the handle of the knife is to be raised, and the blade depressed ; and the incision is to be made downwards and outwards in the direction of a line from