LIGAMENTS OF TARSUS WITH METATARSUS. 715 Fig. 224.* in inversion of the foot, and down and in in eversion ; and the inner one moves more than the others in consequence of the shape of the articular surfaces, and the attachment to it of the tibialis anticusi When the bones pass down the dorsal ligaments are made tight: and as they rise the interosseous and transverse plantar bands will keep them united. In standing and in progression these bones are separated some- what from each other with diminution of the arch of the foot, and stretching of the transverse ligaments which connect them. Articulation of the metatarsal bones. The bases of the four outer metatarsal bones are connected together by dorsal, plantar, and interrosseous ligaments ; and where their lateral parts touch, they are covered with cartilage, and have offsets of a synovial sac. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 224) are small transverse bands from the base of one metatarsal bone to the next. The plantar ligaments (fig. 222) are similar to the dorsal. The interosseous ligaments are short, transverse fibres between the conti- guous rough lateral surfaces : they may be afterwards seen by forcibly separating the bones. Lateral union. The four outer bones touch one another laterally ; the second metatarsal lies against the internal and external cuneiforms ; and the fourth is in contact internally with the outer cunei- form. Those articulating surfaces are covered with cartilage ; and are provided with synovial membrane, which is de- rived from the sacs serving for the articulation of the same four metatarsal with the tarsal bones. The metatarsal bone of the great toe, like that of the thumb, is not united to the others at its base by any intervening bands. The digital ends of the five metatarsal bones are united by the transverse metatarsal ligament; this has been described in page 686. Tarsal with metatarsal bones. These articulations resemble the like parts m the hand, as there is a separate joint for the great toe, and a common one for the four outer metatarsals. Articulation of the great toe. The articular ends of the bones are incased by a capsule, and are provided with an upper and a lower longitudinal hand to give strength to the joint: the lower band is placed between prolongations from the tendons of the tibialis anticus and peroneus longus. A simple synovial membrane serves for the articulation. and ever- sion : state of the ligaments, and joints in pro- gression. Union of the meta- tarsus by dorsal, plantar, Great toe separate. Anterior ends. Tarsus and metatarsus. Joint of great toe from rest: synovial sac. * Dorsal ligaments uniting the tarsus to the metatarsus, and the metatarsal bones to each other behind (Bourgery).