DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 656 THE BACK OF THE THIGH. Dissect the "back of the thigh. Seek out cutaneous nerves. clean mus- cles and nerves. Three mus- cles on hack of thigh. Situation. Biceps arises by a long and a short head; is inserted into the fibula and tibia. Connec- tions of the muscle. Use on knee and hip joints ; on pelvis and femur. Semi-tendi- nosus is attached to pelvis and tibia. Dissection (fig. 201). Now the popliteal space has been examined, the student may proceed with the dissection of the back of the thigh. The piece of skin between the buttock and the popliteal space should be divided, and reflected to the sides. In the fat on the sides of the limb fine offsets of the internal and external cuta- neous nerves of the front of the thigh may be found ; and along the middle line some filaments from the small sciatic nerve pierce the fascia. Kemove the deep fascia of the limb, taking care of the small sciatic nerve and its artery. Lastly, clean the hamstring muscles ; trace the perforating and anastomotic arteries to the front of the thigh; and clean the branches of the great sciatic nerve and pro- funda artery to the muscles. Muscles. The muscles behind the femur act mainly as flexors of the knee joint. They extend from the pelvis to the bones of the leg, and are named hamstrings from their cord-like appearance on the sides of the ham : they are three in number, viz., biceps, semi- tendinosus, and semimembranosus. The first of these lies on the outer, and the others on the inner side of the popliteal space. The biceps (fig. 201, d) has two heads of origin, long and short, which are attached to the pelvis and the femur. The long head arises from an impression on the back of the ischial tuberosity, in common with the semitendinosus muscle. The short head is fixed to the femur below the gluteus maximus, viz., to all the linea aspera, to nearly the whole of the line leading inferiorly to the outer con- dyle, and to the external intermuscular septum. The fibres end inferiorly in a tendon, which is inserted into two prominences on the head of the fibula by slips which embrace the external lateral ligament ; and a slight piece is prolonged to the head of the tibia. The muscle is superficial, except at the origin, where it is covered by the gluteus ; it rests on the upper end of the semimembranosus, and on the great sciatic nerve and the adductor magnus muscle. On the inner side is the semitendinosus as far as the ham. Its tendon gives offsets to the deep fascia of the limb. Action. It can bend the knee if the leg-bones are not fixed, and afterwards rotate out the tibia ; and the long head, which passes upwards beyond the femur, will extend the bent hip joint when the knee is straight. The leg being supported on the ground, the long head will assist in balancing and erecting the pelvis ; and the short head will draw down the femur so as to bend the knee in stooping. The semitendinosus (fig. 201, E) is a slender muscle and receives its name from its appearance. It arises from the tuberosity of the hip bone with the long head of the biceps, and by fleshy fibres from the tendon of that muscle. Inferiorly it is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia, close below the gracilis, and for a similar extent.