DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 682 the other tendons: ligaments to tendons. Use on the digits with others, and with- out. Four lum- bricales. Attachment to toes and long flexor. Use on the phalanges. Flexor ac- cessorius is joined with flexor longus. Connec- tions. Use on the toes, on long flexor. Insertion of tendon of flexor pollicis. Connec- tions. tendon from the flexor brevis, E. About the centre of the meta- tarsal phalanx the tendon of the long flexor, f, is transmitted through the other, and passes onwards to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. Uniting the flexor tendons with the two nearest phalanges of the toes are ligamentous bands (lig. brevia), one to each, as in the hand: and the one fixing the flexor perf orans is anterior (p. 295). Action. It flexes the last phalangeal joint, and combines with the short flexor in bending the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. If it acted by itself it would tend to bring the toes somewhat inwards, in consequence of its oblique position in the foot. The lumbricales (fig. 209, D) are four small muscles between the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum. Each arises from two tendons, with the exception of the most internal, and this is con- nected with the inner side of the tendon to the second toe. Each is inserted by a slip into the tibial side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx in the four outer toes, and sends an expansion* to the aponeurotic covering on the dorsum of the phalanx. The muscles decrease in size from the inner to the outer side of the foot. Action. If the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the four outer toes is bent, the small muscles will assist the flexors; and through their union with the long extensor tendon they may aid that muscle in straightening the two phalangeal joints. The accessorius muscle (fig. 209, A) has two heads of origin :— One is mostly tendinous, and is attached to the under or the outer surface of the os'calcis, and to the ligamentum longum plantee ; the other is large and fleshy, and springs from the inner concave surface of the calcaheum. The fibres end in aponeurotic bands, which join the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum about the centre of the foot, and contribute slips to the pieces of that tendon going to the second, third, and fourth digits (Turner). The muscle is bifurcated behind, and the heads of origin are separated by the long plantar ligament. On it lie the external plantar vessels and nerve ; and the flexor brevis digitorum con- ceals it. Action. By means of its offsets to the tendons of certain digits the muscle helps to bend those toes. And from its position on the outer side and behind the long flexor to which it is united, it will oppose the inward action of that muscle, and will assist the other flexors in bending the toes directly back. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis (fig. 209, c) is deeper in the sple of the foot than the flexor longus digitorum ; and, directed to the root of the great toe, it enters the digital sheath, to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. It is united to the long flexor tendon by a strong tendinous process which, joined by bands of the accessorius, is continued into the pieces of that tendon belonging to the second and third toes (Turner). Between the calcaneum and the internal malleolus this tendon lies in a groove in the astragalus ; and in the foot it occupies a