DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID EEGION. 88 Varies in its position. Brandies are three sets. Those "be- neath jaw, inferior dental; has a branch to mylo-hyoid muscle. Great meningeal artery, ends in skull, hut gives ° "branch to tympanum, to meatus, to dura mater. Branch with gustatory. Branches of second part are to the temporal muscle; that bone and the internal lateral ligament of the joint, and crosses the dental nerve. Next, the vessel winds over the external ptery- goid muscle, being placed between it and the temporal muscle. And lastly, the artery enters the spheno-maxillary fossa between the pieces of origin of the external pterygoid. The course of the- artery is sometimes beneath, instead of over the external pterygoid : in such a state the artery gainsythe spheno-maxillary fossa by comings upwards through the origin of the muscle, as in the woodcut. The branches of this artery are very numerous, and are classed into three sets : thus one set arises beneath the jaw; another between the muscles ; and another in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Two branches, viz., the inferior dental and great meningeal, leave the internal maxillary artery whilst it is in contact with the ramus, of the jaw. The inferior dental branch descends between the internal lateral ligament and the jaw, and enters the foramen on the inner surface of the ramus, along with the dental nerve ; it supplies the teeth,, and ends in the lower part of the face. As this artery is about to enter the foramen it furnishes a small twig, mylo-hyoid branch, to the muscle of that name ; this is con- ducted by a groove on the inner surface of the bone, in company with a branch from the dental nerve, to the superficial surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, where it anastomoses with the submental artery. The great meningeal artery is the largest branch, and arises oppo- site the preceding. It ascends beneath the external pterygoid muscle^, and (oftentimes) between the roots of the auriculo-temporal nerve; crossing the internal lateral ligament, it enters the skull through the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone. When in the skull the artery ascends to the vertex of the head, and supplies the bone and the dura mater (p. 15). Before*the artery enters the skull, it furnishes the following small branches :— a. The tympanic branch (inferior) passes into the tympanum through the Grlaserian fissure, and is distributed to the membrana tympani and that cavity. b. A deep auricular branch arises with the former or separately, enters the meatus through the cartilage, or between this and the bone, and ramifies in the meatus and on the membrana tympani. c. The small meningeal branch begins near the skull, and courses, through the foramen ovale with the inferior maxillary nerve ; it ramifies in the dura mater in the middle fossa of the skull. Another small branch springs from the dental artery or the internal maxillary trunk, and accompanying the gustatory nerve, ends in the cheek and the mucous membrane of the mouth. The branches from the second part of the artery, viz., whilst it is between the temporalis and pterygoideus externus are distributed to the temporal, masseteric, buccal, and pterygoid muscles. The deep temporal arteries are two in number (anterior and pos- terior) ; and each occupies the part of the temporal fossa indicated by its name. They ascend beneath the temporal muscle, and anas-