49 ACTION OF OBLIQUE MUSCLES. It arises from the superior maxillary bone betwixt the margin of Origin, the orbit and the groove for the lachrymal sac. From this spot the muscle passes outwards between the inferior rectus and the Course, bone, then between the eyeball and the external rectus, to be inserted into the sclerotic coat between the outer and upper recti. Insertion. The borders of the muscle look forwards and backwards, and the Connec- posterior receives its branch of the third nerve. The tendon of tl0ns' insertion is near that of the superior oblique muscle, but rather closer to the optic nerve. Action. The oblique muscles rotate the eyeball around an Use of antero-posterior axis, and are supposed to be used in maintaining the parallelism of the axes of the two eyes. The upper muscle, acting on the eye by itself, would rotate the upper ball in such a way as to cause the inner end of the transverse axis to sink, and the pupil to be directed down and out, as in looking to the shoulder. The lower muscle would produce by itself rotation of the ball in and lower the opposite direction, viz. the inner end of the transverse axis would be raised, and the pupil would be inclined up and out, as in looking to the outer part of the orbit. During life the rotary movement is supposed to be chiefly em- with recti, ployed in controlling the oblique action of the upper and lower recti. For instance, as the upper rectus alone would turn the pupil upwards and too much inwards, its inner movement will be counteracted by the rotation out of the inferior oblique. And as the lower rectus will incline the pupil down and too much in, the motion inwards will be checked by the rotation out of the superior oblique. Dissection. To expose the small tensor tarsi muscle, the palpe- geek tensor bral ligament uniting the eyelids to the margin of the orbit is to tarsi- be cut through, where this has not been done ; but the lids must be left attached at the inner commissure by means of the tendo palpebrarum. By looking to the posterior aspect of the tendo pal- pebrarum, after the lids have been placed across the nose, the pale fibres of the tensor tarsi will be recognised. The tensor tarsi muscle arises from the ridge on the os unguis, Tensor tarsi and slightly from the bone behind the ridge. Its fibres are pale, and form a very small flat band, behind the ligamentum palpebra- rum, which divides like that structure into a slip for each eyelid. In each lid the slip lies by the side of the lachrymal canal, and insertion, blends with the fibres of the orbicularis along the free margin of the tarsal cartilage. Action. By its contraction the muscle draws inwards and back- Use. wards the puncta of the lids, so as to favour the reception and passage of the tears. Dissection. A small nerve, the temporo-malar or orbital branch Trace offset of the superior maxillary trunk, lies along the outer angle of the maxiSary1* floor of the orbit, and may be brought into view after the removal nerve, of the eyeball and its muscles. This nerve is very soft and easily broken, and is covered by pale fleshy fibres (orbitalis muscle). E