691 FLEXORS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. calcis, in front of the interosseous ligament; and internally, where it is thin and widened, into the plantar fascia and the inner malle- olus. In this piece of the ligament there are three sheaths :—an Sheaths inner one for the tibialis anticus ; an outer for the extensor longus ^ch! m digitorum and peroneus tertius ; and an intermediate one for the ex- tensor pollicis. Separate synovial membranes line the sheaths. The external annular ligament is placed below the fibula, and is at- External tached on the one side to the outer malleolus, and on the other to ligament, the os calcis. Its lower edge is connected by fibrous tissue to the sheaths of the peronei muscles on the outer side of the os calcis. It contains the two lateral peronei muscles in one compartment ; and this is lined by a synovial membrane, which sends two offsets below into the sheaths of the peronei muscles. The MUSCLES ON THE FRONT OF THE LEG (fig. 213) are three in Muscles on number. The large muscle next the tibia is the tibialis anticus ; ti!e leg1* °f that next the fibula, the extensor longus digitorum ; whilst a small muscle, apparently the lower end of the last with a separate tendon to the fifth metatarsal bone, is the peroneus tertius. The muscle be- tween the tibialis and extensor digitorum, in the lower half of the leg, is the extensor pollicis. On the dorsum of the foot only one muscle appears, the extensor and foot, forevis digitorum. The tibialis anticus (fig. 213, l) reaches the tarsus : it is thick Tibialis and fleshy in the upper, but tendinous in the lower part of the leg. antlGUS» It arises from the outer tuberosity and the upper half or more of origin, the tibia ; from the contiguous part of the interosseous ligament ; and from the fascia of the leg and the intermuscular septum be- tween it and the next muscle. Its tendon begins below the middle of the leg, and passes through compartments in both pieces of the annular ligament, to be inserted into the internal cuneiform bone, insertion, and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The muscle is subaponeurotic. It lies at first outside the tibia, rest- Parts in ing on the interosseous membrane, but it is then placed, successively, over the end of the tibia, the ankle joint, and the inner tarsal bones. The outer border touches the extensor muscles of the toes, and con- ceals the anterior tibial vessels. Action. Supposing the foot not fixed, the tibialis bends the ankle, ^°^etgie moves the great toe towards the middle line of the body, and raises the inner border of the foot. If the foot is fixed it can lift the inner border with the tibialis and fixed; posticus, and support the foot on the outer edge. If the tibia is slanting backwards, as when the advanced limb on the tibia reaches the ground in walking, it can bring forwards and make m walking- steady that bone. The extensor proprius pollicis (fig. 213) is deeply placed at its Extensor origin between the former muscle and the extensor longus digitorum, polllcls but its tendon becomes superficial on the dorsum of the foot. The muscle arises from the middle three fifths of the anterior narrow part attached to on the inner surface of the fibula, and from the interosseous ligament m)iaa' for the same distance. At the ankle it ends in a tendon, which comes Y Y 2