DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 370 brae and the cartilage. To see liga ments of the verte- brae; of rib and sternum. Ligaments of head of rib are costo-verte- bral or stellate: attach- ments, differs in certain ribs. Fig. 108 * Inter- articular, other. Between it and the spine are two sets of ligaments, viz., one between the head of the bone and the bodies of the vertebrae ; and a second from the neck and tubercle to the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebrae. Dissection. For the purpose of examining the ligaments between the rib and the vertebrae, take a piece of the spinal column with three or four ribs attached. After removing the intercostal and other muscles, and the loose tissue from the surface of the bones, the student will be able to define, as below, the ligaments passing from the head and neck of the rib to the bodies and transverse processes of the vertebrae. The ligaments attaching the costal cartilage to the rib and sternum are to be dissected on the part of the thorax which was removed in opening the cavity. Ligaments of the Head of the Eib. Where the head of the rib is received into a hollow in the bodies of two contiguous vertebrae, the articulation is provided with two retaining ligaments — costo- vertebral and interarticular, with two synovial sacs. The costo-vertebral ligament (fig. 108, 3), named stellate from its form, is composed of radiating fibres, and is placed in front of the joint. Attached by one end to the rib, it is divided at the other into three sets of fibres :—The upper, the largest, ascends to the body of the vertebra above the rib head ; the lower descends to the vertebra below the head ; and the central part is united with the fibro-carti- lage between the vertebrae. Where the rib is in contact with only one vertebra, as in the first, eleventh, and twelfth, the ligament has but two sets of fibres. The chief fibres in those three joints are fixed into the body of that vertebra which is touched by the costal head; whilst the ascending band is attached to the body of the vertebra immediately above. In the first rib-joint the ascending band is continued to the last cervical vertebra. The interarticular ligament will be seen when the stellate is divided. It is a short thin band of fibro-cartilage, which is attached on one side to the ridge separating the articular surfaces on the head of * Ligaments of the ribs and vertebrae (Bourgery).—1. Anterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebras. 2. Lateral part of the anterior ligament of the spine. 3. Ligament (stellate) between the vertebrae and head of the rib. 4. Ascending costo-transverse ligament. 5. Interspinous ligament.