367 SYMPATHETIC NERVE AND OFFSETS. Fig. 107. others, being situate on the side of the bodies of the corresponding vertebras. Each ganglion furnishes external branches to communicate with Branches the spinal nerves, and internal for the supply of the viscera. External or connecting branches (fig. 107). Two offsets pass out- ^jom wards from each ganglion to join a spinal nerve (in- tercostal). In the branches of communication both spinal and sympathetic nerve fibrils are combined ; but one (li) consists almost entirely of spinal, and the other (z) nearly altogether of sympathetic nerve fibres. The internal or visceral branches differ in size and distribution, according as they are derived from the upper or lower six ganglia. The offsets of the upper six are very small, and are distributed to the aorta, and the vertebras with the ligaments. Mr. Swan de- scribes a plexus in front of the spine, from the union of the branches of oppo- site sides. From the third and fourth ganglia offsets are sent to the posterior pulmonary plexus. The branches of the lower six are larger and much whiter than lower six, the others, and are united to form visceral or splanchnic nerves of f0rni' the abdomen : these are three in number (large, small, and small- est,) and pierce the diaphragm to end in the solar and renal plexuses. The great splanchnic nerve is a large white cord, which receives fp^nclmjc roots apparently from only four or five ganglia (sixth to the tenth), but its fibres may be traced upwards on the knotted cord as high as the third ganglion. Descending on the bodies of the vertebras, ^ semimnar 0 0 0 7 gauglion; it pierces the fibres of the crus of the diaphragm, and ends in the .-semilunar ganglion of the abdomen. At the lower part of the thorax the nerve may present a ganglion. to supply viscera. Upper six ganglia off- sets are small; * Scheme to illustrate the connection between the spinal and sympathetic nerves. (Todd and Bowman.) a. Posterior root of a spinal nerve, with a ganglion, c. b. Anterior root. d. Posterior primary branch, e. Anterior primary branch of the spinal nerve. /. Knotted cord of the sympathetic. g. Gfanglia on the cord. h. White offset from the spinal to the sympathetic nerve, i. Grey offset from the sympathetic to the spinal nerve.