DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 42 Nasal, after wards. Elevator of upper eyeliu attached to tarsal car- tilage. Connec- tions. Use. Upper rec- tus muscle. Origin. Insertion. Position to other parts, Use. Upper oblique muscle enters a loop. Insertion. Connec- tions. Pulley of the muscle the gland it sends downwards one or two small filaments (6) to join the temporo-malar or orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Occasionally it has a communicating filament behind with the fourth nerve. The nasal nerve is not visible at this stage of the dissection : it will be noticed afterwards in p. 43. Dissection. Divide the frontal nerve about its middle, and throw the ends forwards and backwards : by raising the posterior piece of the nerve, the separate origin of the nasal branch from the ophthalmic trunk will appear. The lachrymal nerve may remain uncut. The levator palpebrje superioris (fig. 10, B) is the most superficial muscle, and is attached posteriorly to the roof of the orbit in front of the optic foramen. The muscle widens in front, and bends downwards in the eyelid to be inserted by a wide tendon into the front of the tarsal cartilage. By one surface the muscle is in contact with the frontal nerve and the periosteum ; and by the other with the superior rectus muscle. If it is cut across about the centre a small branch of the third nerve will be seen entering the posterior half at the under surface. Action. The lid-cartilage is made to glide upwards over the ball by this muscle, so that the upper edge is directed back and the lower forwards, the teguments of the lid being drawn inwards at the same time. If the eyeball is directed down, the movement of the lid is less free, because the conjunctiva is put on the stretch. The rectus superior (fig. 10, D) is the upper of four muscles that lie around the globe of the eye. It arises from the upper part of the optic foramen, and is connected with the other recti muscles around the optic nerve. In front the fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted, like the other recti, into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball about a quarter of an inch behind the trans- parent cornea. The under surface of the muscle is in contact with the globe of the eye, and with some vessels and nerves to be afterwards seen ; the other surface is covered by the preceding muscle. The action of the muscle will be given with the other recti (p. 47). The superior oblique muscle (fig. 10, A) is thin and narrow, and passes through a fibrous loop at the inner angle of the orbit before reaching the eyeball. The muscle arises behind from the inner part of the optic foramen, and ends anteriorly in a rounded tendon, which, after passing through the loop referred to (fig. 11) is reflected backwards and outwards between the superior rectus and the globe of the eye, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat behind the middle of the ball. The fourth nerve is supplied to the orbital surface of the muscle, and the nasal nerve lies below it. The thin insertion of the muscle lies between the superior and the external rectus, and near the tendon of the inferior oblique. The pulley, or trochlea (fig. 11), is a fibro-cartilaginous ring