373 LIGAMENTS OF VERTEBRAE. ment of the bodies will be defined with very little trouble, by- removing the areolar tissue. It is supposed that the spinal canal has been opened to examine the spinal cord, and that the posterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebras is laid bare ; but if the canal should not be open, the neural arches of the vertebras are to be removed by sawing through the pedicles. The remaining ligaments between the neural arches, spines, and articular processes of the bones, may be dissected on the piece taken away in opening the spinal canal. Ligaments of the Bodies. The bodies of the vertebrae are united by an anterior and a posterior common ligament, with an inter- vening piece of fibro-cartilage. The anterior common ligament (fig. 109, a) reaches from the atlas to the sacrum : it is widest opposite the lumbar vertebras, and is narrowed upwards. It consists of a central wide and thick part (a), and of a thinner portion (&), on each side of the body of the vertebra. If the central piece be ^ * cut across at intervals it will be seen to be thickest opposite the hollow of the bodies. The fibres of the middle piece are longitudinal in direction. By detaching parts of the ligament, the superficial fibres will be seen to reach three or more vertebras, whilst the deep extend from bone to bone. A greater number of the fibres are attached to the in- tervertebral fibro-cartilages than to the bones ; and more are fixed to the margins than the centre of the body. The posterior common ligament (fig. 110), much thinner than the anterior, is contained in the spinal canal, lying on the posterior sur- face of the vertebras, and extends from the sacrum to the occipital bone. This ligament is wide above, and diminishes in size down- wards, just the opposite of the anterior. In the neck, A, it is loose, and extends across the bodies. In the back and loins it is a narrow band, b, which sends off on each side a pointed process to be at- tached to the pedicle of the neural arch ; and it is wider opposite the intervertebral discs than on the bodies, so that the margins are dentate. One surface of the ligament is in contact with the dura mater ; and between the band and the vertebras are the intraspinal vessels. Its fibres are superficial and deep as in the anterior ligament, and * Anterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae, a. Middle strong part, and b, lateral thin part of the ligament. The bodies are united by: Anterior common ligament, width, Form. Connec- tions. Attach- ment of fibres.