508 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. follow left piece of vena porta?. Colour and consistence weight; measure- ments. Form and divisions. Upper surface smooth; under surface irregular. Anterior border thin and notched, posterior thicker, and also notched. Extremities. Lobes on under surface are five, viz. : left, right; last sub- divided into square, duct. The several vessels and the ducts are then to be defined, and the gall-bladder to be cleaned. On following outwards the left branch of the vena portee to the longitudinal or antero-posterior fissure, it will be found united anteriorly with the round ligament (c) or the remains of the umbilical vein, and posteriorly with the thin fibrous remnant of the, ductus venosus (d). The liver is of a red-brown colour and firm consistence ; and weighs commonly in the adult from three to four pounds (fifty to sixty ounces). Transversely the gland measures from ten to twelve inches ; from front to back between six and seven inches : and in thickness, at the right end, about three inches, but this last measure- ment varies with the spot examined. In shape the liver is somewhat square. It has many named parts, viz., two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities : and the under surface is further marked by lobes and fossa3, and by fissures which contain vessels. The connections and the ligaments of the liver are described at p. 471 and p. 47G. Surfaces. On the upper aspect the liver is convex : extending from front to back is the suspensory ligament, which divides the upper surface into two unequal parts, of which the right is the larger. The under surface is rendered irregular by lobes, fissures, and f ossa3 : in contact with it is the gall-bladder ; and a longi- tudinal sulcus divides it into a right and a left lobe. Borders. The anterior border is thin, and is marked by two notches : one is opposite the longitudinal sulcus on the under surface before alluded to, and the other is over the large end of the gall-bladder. The posterior border is much thicker at the right than at the left end ; and where it is thickened it touches the right kidney and the diaphragm. Opposite the vertebral column is a hollow in this border ; and the vena cava is partly imbedded in it on the right of the spine. Extremities. The right extremity is thick and rounded ; and the left is thin and flattened. Lobes. On the under surface the liver is divided primarily into two lobes, a right and a left, by the antero-posterior or longitudinal fissure ; and occupying the right lobe are three others, viz. the square, the Spigelian, and the caudate lobe. The left lobe, b, is smaller and thinner than the right, and there is a slight depression inferiorly where it touches the stomach. The right lobe, A, forms the greater part of the liver, and is separated from the left by the longitudinal fissure on the one aspect, and by the suspensory ligament on the other. To it the gall-bladder is attached below ; and the following lobes are pro- jections on its under surface :— The square lobe, c, (lobulus quadratus), is situate between the gall-bladder and the longitudinal fissure. It reaches anteriorly to the margin of the liver, and posteriorly to the fissure (transverse) by which the vessels enter the interior of the viscus.