121 PEEPAPATION OF PHARYNX. Directions. The dissector may learn next the digastric and stylo- Muscles and hyoid muscles, with the hypo-glossal nerve (p. 75). Afterwards he Interior11 may take the trunk of the external carotid, with the following triangle, branches,—superior thyroid, facial, occipital, posterior auricular, and superficial temporal (p. 77 to 81). The dissector is not to examine now the pterygo-maxillary or sub- Regions to maxillary regions on the left side because such a proceeding would hQ omitted. interfere with the subsequent dissections. Before learning the pharynx he should lay bare, on this side, the middle and inferior ganglia of the sympathetic with their branches. Dissection. For the display of the two lower ganglia of the sym- Dissection pathetic and their branches, it will be necessary to take away the £nest^!lpa~ great blood-vessels by cutting them across at the lower part of the neck, and near the digastric muscle. In removing the vessels, care must be taken of the sympathetic beneath them. The middle ganglion must be sought in the fat and areolar tissue viz., middle near the inferior thyroid artery ; and the inferior one will be seen gangiiaT1 on the neck of the first rib, after the subclavian artery has been divided. The upper cardiac nerve may be found descending beneath the carotid sheath. The upper end of the sternum with its attached clavicle is to be Eeserve taken away next, by cutting through the middle of the first rib ; J^t and the piece of bone is to be put aside for the subsequent exami- nation of the sterno-clavicular articulation. The middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic nerve Ganglia of are so similar to the corresponding ganglia of the right side, that ^^e^ ° the same description will suffice (p. 115). The cardiac nerves are three in number on the left as on the right Cardiac side, viz. superior, middle, and inferior, but they present some nerves* differences. The superior cardiac nerve has a similar course in the neck on both Upper, sides ; but the left in entering the chest lies between and parallel to the carotid and subclavian arteries. The middle cardiac nerve unites frequently with the next, and Middle, passes beneath the subclavian artery to the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiac nerve is generally a small branch, which, enters Lower, the thorax conjoined with the preceding, to end in the cardiac plexus. Section XI. DISSECTION OF THE PHAKYNX. The pharynx, or the commencement of the alimentary passage, Directions, can be examined only when it has been separated from the back of the head and the spinal column ; and it will therefore be necessary to cut through the base of the skull in the manner mentioned below, so as to have the anterior half, with the pharynx connected to it, detached from the posterior half. Dissection. The block being removed from beneath the neck, the To detach pharynx,