ELEVATORS OF PHARYNX. 125 muscles, and wants the usual triangular form. Its origin is extensive, Origin from and is connected successively, from above down, with the inner surface an^toligue. of the internal pterygoid plate (the lower third or less), with the pterygo-maxillary ligament, with the posterior part of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, and with the mucous membrane of the mouth and the side of the tongue. The fleshy fibres pass backwards, and ^in^as are inserted on the aponeurosis of the pharynx, as well as into a the others. raphe along the middle line. The parts in contact externally with this muscle are, the deep Contiguous vessels and nerves of the neck ; and internally it is lined by the parts* aponeurosis and the mucous membrane. The upper border consists of arched fibres which are directed backwards from the pterygoid plate ; and above it the levator palati muscle F is seen. The lower border is overlaid by the middle constrictor muscle. The attachment to the pterygo-maxillary ligament corresponds with the origin of the buccinator muscle I. Action of constrictors. The muscles of both sides contracting at Victors011" the same time will diminish the size of the pharynx ; and as the anterior attachments of the lower muscles are nearer together than those of the upper, the tube will be contracted more behind the larynx than near the head. In swallowing the morsel is seized first by the middle constrictor, !n swallow- and is delivered over to the inferior, by which it is conveyed to the mg* oesophagus : both muscles act involuntarily. By the contraction of the upper muscle the space above the mouth will be narrowed, so that the soft palate being raised, the upper portion of the pharyn- geal space can be shut off from the lower. Dissection (fig. 29). Open the pharynx by an incision along its Dissection, middle, and, after removing the tow from the interior, keep it open with hooks : a better view of the cavity will be obtained by partly dividing the occipital attachment on each side. The mucous mem- brane is to be carefully removed below the dilated extremity of the Eustachian tube on the right side, for the purpose of finding some pale muscular fibres, salpingo-pharyngeus c, which descend from it. The elevators of the pharynx are two in number on each side—an Elevators of external (stylo-pharyngeus), and an internal (salpingo-pharyngeus). Pharynx- The stylo-pharyngeus (external elevator) may be read again with styio-pha- the pharynx. Its description is given in p. 102. ryngeus. Salpingo-pharyngeus, c (internal elevator). This little band is Saipingo- fixed by tendon to the lower border of the cartilage of the Eusta- Phaiynseus- chian tube near the orifice. Its fleshy fibres end below by joining Attach those of the palato-pharyngeus q. If the pharynx is not tolerably ments. fresh the muscle may not be visible. Action. This thin muscle elevates the upper and lateral part of Use. the pharynx above the spot where the large external elevator enters the wall : but it is probably used chiefly in opening the Eustachian tube in swallowing. The interior of the pharynx (fig. 29) is wider from side to side interior of than from before back, and its greatest width is opposite the hyoid pharynx*