DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 346 Layers of left ven- tricle. Number. Arrange- ment. Extent. Wall thickest, and thinnest. Direction of fibres in the three outer, middle, and three inner layers. fibres in front longitudinally near the septum, and transversely about half an inch below the left auriculo-ventricular opening ; but the cut is to be very shallow, because seven layers, each about as thick as the thin end of the scalpel, are to be demonstrated. From the lines of incision reflect the different layers down to the apex, upwards to the auriculo-ventricular aperture, and back into the septum. As the layers are raised the fleshy fibres will be seen to change their direction ; and the outer three to be thinner than the three internal. The left ventricle is a hollow cone, and its wall is formed of layers of fibres, as if a flat muscle had been rolled up into a conical figure (fig. 103). Seven layers enter into the construction of the wall ; and they are arranged Fig- 103-* into three external (1, 2, 3), three internal (5, 6, 7), and a central one (4). All are not prolonged equal distances on the ventricle, for the outer- most and the innermost reach farthest towards apex and base ; and the second exter- nal and its corresponding inner layer (sixth) extend l|tvV\h\ Vfarther than the third and the fifth. The fourth is the shortest of all. Consequently the wall is thickest about the middle third where all the layers are present, "and gra- dually becomes thinner up- wards and downwards, until there is only the outermost layer at the apex, and the most external and internal (1st and 7th) at the base. (Dr. Pettigrew, Phil. Trans. 1864.) Direction of the fibres. Each stratum is formed of fleshy fibres with the undermentioned direction, supposing the ventricle standing on the apex, and the anterior surface towards the dissector. In the three external strata (1, 2, 3) the fibres are inclined down- wards from the base and septum to the apex of the ventricle, and become less vertical in each. The fourth or mid layer (4) possesses transverse fibres ; and it is nearer the outer than the inner surface of the wall. In the three inner strata the fibres change their direction, as is shown by 5, and are directed upwards from the apex and septum to the base of the ventricle ; so that they cross the fibres of the outer layers, like the legs of the letter X, becoming more oblique in each layer, and the internal are almost vertical. * A diagram of the arrangement of the fibres in layers in the left ventricle. 1. First or external layer. 2. Second external. 3. Third external. 4. Central layer. 5. The outermost of the three inner strata. V ''''