445 INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. external abdominal ring*. Its inner attachment is tendinous, and is easily taken away. Parts covered by external oblique (fig. 134). Beneath the external, is the internal oblique muscle, with the ribs and the intercostal muscles. At the lower part of the abdomen the muscle conceals the spermatic cord, and the branches of the lumbar plexus in the abdominal wall. The internal oblique muscle *(fig. 134, A) is fleshy below and aponeurotic above, just the reverse of the preceding ; and its fibres (except the lowest) ascend across those of the external Fig- 134.* oblique. The muscle arises along the outer half of Pou- part's ligament; along the anterior two thirds of the crest of the hip bone ; and from the tendon of the trans- versalis muscle, c, (fascia lumborum) in the interval between that bone and the last rib. The fibres diverge on the abdomen to their des- tination :—The upper are fleshy and ascend to be in- serted into the cartilages of the lower three ribs, where they join the internal inter- costal muscles of the lowest two spaces. The remaining fibres pass obliquely to the aponeurosis. The aponeurosis covers the front of the abdomen from the pelvis to the chest, and blends with its fellow along the middle line. For the most part it incases the rectus ; but midway between the umbilicus and the pubes it is undivided, and lies in front of that muscle. Superiorly it is attached to the thorax after the following manner :—The stratum superficial to the rectus is fixed to the ninth rib, and blends with the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; and the stratum beneath the rectus joins the cartilages of the eighth and seventh ribs, and the ensiform cartilage. Inferiorly its fibres become more distinct and separate from each other, and are inserted into the front of the pubes, and into the pectineal line for half an inch behind the attachment of Gimbernat's ligament. Connections. The internal is covered by the external oblique muscle. It is attached on all sides, except between Poupart's * Internal oblique muscle of the abdominal wall. a. Internal oblique. B. Latissimus dorsi, cut. c. Part of the hinder tendon of the transversalis muscle, d. Poupart's ligament, e. External : p. Internal intercostals. Parts covered 1 >y external oblique. Internal oblique muscle. divides to incase rectus : attachments to chest, and the pelvis. Parts in contact with oblique.