183 ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN. between the halves of the large brain ; and as it is about to enter, it is united to its fellow by a short thick branch,—the anterior communi- communicating (3). Then passing into the fissure, it bends round artery; the anterior part of the corpus callosum, so as to be placed on the upper aspect in the natural position of the brain, and is continued backwards, distributing offsets nearly to the posterior extremity of the hemisphere. It gives off numerous brandies, and some of them supply the base its offsets of the cerebrum, thus :— Near the commencement it furnishes small branches to the brain to base of (anterior perforated spot) contiguous to the inner end of the fissure biam* of Sylvius : and it distributes some offsets to the under part of the frontal lobe. b. The middle cerebral artery (4) is the largest branch of the carotid, ^^l-ai and ramifies over the outer side of the hemisphere. Entering the artery fissure of Sylvius, the artery divides into many large pieces, which issue at the outer end of that groove and, spreading over the external surface of the hemisphere, inosculate with the other two ^ter^ai-t^f cerebral arteries at the front, the back, and the upper part of the hemisphere: brain. Only a few fine offsets require special notice : A set of small branches arise at the inner end of the fissure of offsets. Sylvius, and enter the cerebral substance through the substantia perforata antica. c. The posterior communicating artery (6) is a small twig, which communi- is directed backwards parallel to, and on the inner side of the third eating, nerve, to join the posterior cerebral artery (of the basilar) near the pons. d. The choroid artery (anterior) (5) is small in size, and arises Choroid either from the trunk of the carotid, or from the middle cerebral aiteiy* artery : it passes backwards on the outer side of the preceding, and finds its way between the hemisphere and the cms cerebri to the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. Circle of Willis. The arteries at the under part of the brain are Circle of . . . Willis * united freely both on their own side and across the middle line in ' an arterial anastomosis,—the circle of Willis. On each side this ve1sse^ssj]^ circle is formed by the trunk of the internal carotid giving for- wards the anterior cerebral, and backwards the posterior communi- cating artery. In front it is constructed by the converging anterior cerebral, and the anterior communicating artery. And behind is the bifurcation of the basilar trunk into the posterior cerebrals. In the area of the circle lie several bodies corresponding with the floor of the third ventricle. The complete inosculation between the cranial vessels in the f^oscufation circle of Willis allows at all times a free circulation of blood through between the brain, even though a large vessel on one side of the neck should be obstructed. The veins of the brain enter the sinuses of the dura mater, instead Vei!ls of the ... ' bram. of uniting into trunks as companions to the arteries. Two sets of veins belong to the cerebrum, viz. superficial or ex- Two sets of ternal, and deep or internal. cerebrum,