756 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Lamina reticularis. Epithelium. Two sacs float in fluid of labyrinth. Dissection of them in a fresh hone. The utricle, situation, and form. It sends tubes into the arched canals; they are dilated at one end, and contain a fluid. Endolymph and otolith. Smaller sac is before the other, joins canal of cochlea: fluid in it. Lamina reticularis (f Kolliker). A very thin layer of flattened particles (phalanges) is continued over the outer half of the organ of Corti; in it are apertures, through which pass the filaments at the end of the cells. Around the upper ends of the inner cells is a similar uniting material. It is supposed to fix and keep in place the cells. An epithelial layer, consisting of cubical cells, covers the floor of the space outside and inside the organ of Corti. The membranous labyrinth (fig. 246) is constituted of sacs, con- taining fluid, in which the auditory nerve is expanded. The sacs are two in number, viz., utricle and saccule, and have the general shape of the surrounding bone ; they are confined to the vestibule and the semicircular canals. They are immersed in the peri- lymphic fluid. Dissection. The delicate internal sacs of the ear, with their nerves, cannot be dissected except on a temporal bone which has been softened in acid, and afterwards put in spirit. The previous in- structions for the dissection of the osseous labyrinth will guide the student to the situation of the membranous structures within it, but the surrounding softened material must be removed with great care. A microscope will be needed for the complete examination of the sacs. For the display of the blood-vessels a minute injection will be required. The utricle (fig. 246, d), or the common sinus, is the larger of the two sacs, and is situate at the posterior and upper part of the vestibule, opposite the fovea semi-elliptica in the roof. It is trans- versely oval in form, and connected with it posteriorly are three looped tubes, which are prolonged into the semicircular canals. These prolongations (g) are smaller than the osseous canals, being only one third of their diameter ; and the interval between the bone and the membrane is filled by fluid—the perilymph. In form they resemble the bony cases, for they are marked at one end by a dilatation (/), corresponding with the ampulla of the osseous canal; and, further, two are blended at one end, like the canals they occupy : they communicate with the utricle by five openings, and are filled with the fluid of that sac. At each ampullary enlargement there is a transverse projection into the interior of the tube ; and at that spot a branch of the auditory nerve enters the wall. The utricle and its tubes are filled with a clear fluid, like water, which is named endolymph ; and in the wall of the sac is a small calcareous deposit (otolith, e) opposite the entrance of the nerve into it. The saccule (fig. 246, a) is a smaller and rounder cyst than the utricle, and is placed in front of it in the hollow of the fovea hemispherica. It is separate from the other ; but it is continuous below, by a short and small duct (c, ductus reuniens), with the canal of the cochlea. Like the larger sac it has a translucent wall, in which is an