151 MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. Fibres. Only the two parts of the hyo-glossus (basio and cerato-glossus, of chondro- p. 95), which arise from the body and great wing of the hyoid bone, glossus- are referred to above. To lay bare the third part, or the chondro- glossus, F, which is a small muscular slip attached to the small cornu of the os hyoides, turn upwards the dorsum of the tongue, and feel for the small cornu of the hyoid bone through the mucous membrane. Then remove the mucous membrane in front of the cornu, and the fibres of the muscle radiating forwards will be visible. The palato and stylo-glossus muscles, D and B, are partly com- Combined bined at their attachment to the lateral part of the tongue, and ^iqT and form, together with the following muscle, an expansion over the giossus; anterior two thirds of the dorsum be- neath the superficial lingualis. In this stratum the fibres radiate from the point of contact of the muscles with the tongue—some passing almost hori- zontally inwards to the middle, and others obliquely forwards to the tip of the organ. A great portion of the stylo-glossus is directed along the side of the tongue ; and some fibres are inclined to the under surface in front of the hyo- glossus, to join those of the opposite muscle beneath the tip. Hyo-glossus. The two superficial parts of the muscle (basio- and cerato- glossus, c, p. 95) enter the under surface of the tongue, between the stylo-glossus and the lingualis. After entering that surface by separate bundles, they are bent round the mar- gin, and form, with the two preceding muscles, a stratum on the dorsum of the tongue. The third part of the muscle, or the cJiondro-qlossus, F, is distinct deeper part, fdiondro- from the rest. About two or three lines wide at its origin from the giossus, root of the small cornu, and from part of the body of the os hyoides, origin, the muscle enters beneath the upper lingualis, and passes obliquely ending in inwards over the posterior third of the dorsum, to blend with the the ton°ue- hyo-glossus. Cortex of the tongue. The muscles above described, together with Muscular the superficial lingualis, constitute a cortical layer of oblique and tonguL longitudinal fibres, which covers the tongue, except below where some muscles are placed, and resembles " a slipper turned upside down." This stratum is pierced by deeper fibres. The genio-hyo-glossus (fig. 38, A) enters the tongue vertically on Arrange- the side of the septum, and perforates the cortical covering to end ^ueV^ * Muscles on the surface of the tongue. A. Superficial lingualis. B. Stylo- glossus, c. Hyo-glossus. d. Palatoglossus, f. Chondro-glossus. a. Pha- ryngeo-giossus. H. Septum linguae (Zaglas). joins fellow. Hyo-glos- sus ; superficial parts;