BOUNDAKIES OF VESTIBULE. 749 facial nerve, to which it is connected by filaments (fig. 35). Be- this called yond the union with the facial, the nerve is named small superficial g^Ja11 Petro* petrosal, and is continued forwards through the substance of the temporal bone, to end in the otic ganglion (p. 146). Nerves to muscles. The tensor tympani muscle is supplied by a Nerves for branch from the otic ganglion (fig. 241, 9) : the stapedius received the muscles- an offset from the facial trunk ; and the laxator tympani from the chorda tympani nerve (?). The chorda tympani (fig. 241, 8) is a branch of the facial nerve Chorda (p. 146). Entering the cavity behind, it crosses the membrana crosses11 tympani, and issues from the space by an aperture in, or internal cavity, to the Glaserian fissure ; it joins the gustatory nerve, and its farther course to the tongue is described at page 92. The auricular branch of the vagus nerve, though not a nerve of Branch of the tympanum, is an offset to the outer ear, and may be now traced outer ear.the in the softened bone. Arising in the jugular fossa (p. Ill), the nerve enters a special canal, and crosses through the substance of the temporal bone to the back of the ear. The labyrinth. The inner portion of the organ of hearing is so Labyrinth named from its complexness. It consists of three spaces sur- o^semisand rounded by dense bone; and of sacs containing fluid for the membra- expansion of the auditory nerve, which are included within the nous parts' former. The osseous labyrinth comprises the vestibule, the semicircular Constitu- canals, and the cochlea : these communicate externally with the osseou^16 tympanum, and internally, through the meatus auditorius internus, part, with the cranial cavity. The vestibule (fig. 242), or the central cavity of the osseous Vestibule, labyrinth, is placed behind the cochlea, but in front of the semi- circular canals. Dissection. This space may be seen on the dry bone which has Dissection been used for the preparation of the tympanum. The bone is to to see be sawn through vertically close to the inner wall of the tympanum, so as to lay bare the fenestra ovalis leading into the vestibule. By enlarging the fenestra ovalis a very little in a direction upwards and forwards, the vestibular space will appear; and the end of the superior semicircular canal will be opened. Other views of the cavity may be obtained by sections of the temporal bone in different directions, according to the knowledge and skill of the dissector. The vestibular space (fig. 242) is ovoidal in form, and the ex- Form and tremities are directed forwards and backwards. The larger end is turned back, and the under part or floor is more narrowed than the upper part or roof. It measures about -i-th of an inch in length, dimensions, but it is narrower from without inwards. The following objects are to be noted on the boundaries of the space. In front, close to the outer wall, is a large aperture (g) leading Apertures into the cochlea; and behind are five round openings of the three beh°indand semi-circular canals (c?, c,/). The outer wall corresponds with the tympanum, and in it is the in outer wall.