552 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Extent of the rectum, length, and clivi- First piece most covered by peritoneum. Middle piece covered in front. Last piece is uncovered, connections with parts around : sometimes dilated. Bladder is in pelvis when empty, to the abdominal wall, along the remains of the obliterated hypo- gastric vessels. The rectum, or the lower part of the great intestine (fig. 172, ti) extends from the articulation between the sacrum and the left hip bone to the anus, and is kept in place by the peritoneum, the recto- vesical fascia, and the levatores ani. The intestine is about eight inches long, and has a winding course, for it follows the curve of the sacrum and coccyx : it is divided into three parts—upper, middle, and lower. The upper portion, longer than the others, extends obliquely from the sacro-iliac articulation to the centre of the third piece of the sacrum. Surrounded almost entirely by the peritoneum, it lies against the sacrum, and on the pyriformis muscle and sacral plexus of the left side. In contact with it, are branches of the left internal iliac artery, and the left ureter. In some bodies the intestine is much curved to the right side.i;> The middle piece lies beneath the bladder, and reaches to the tip of the coccyx : it is about three inches is length, and is covered by peritoneum on the front and sides above, but only in front below. Resting on it is the triangular part of the bladder, with the back of the prostate and the vesicular seminales and vasa deferentia ; and beneath it are the sacrum and coccyx. On each side is the coccygeus muscle. The lower part is about an inch and a half long, and is curved from the tip of the coccyx to the anus : at first it is dilated, but at the anus it is contracted. This end of the intestine is without peritoneal covering, and is supported by the triangular ligament of the urethra, and by the levatores ani muscles. Above the extremity of the rectum (in this position of the body) are the fore part of the prostate, the membranous part of the urethra, and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethras ; but as the gut recedes from the urethra there is an angular interval left between them. The levatores ani muscles descend on its sides, and unite beneath it, supporting it in a sling ; and the s]3hincter muscles surround the aperture. Sometimes the end of the intestine within the anus is very much enlarged, especially in women and old men; and in that condition in the male it rises up on each side of the prostate. The urinary bladder (vesica urinaria) is situate in the fore part of the pelvis (fig. 172, a), and is the receptacle for the fluid secreted by the kidneys. When the bladder is contracted it is flattened, and of a triangular form, and lies against the anterior wall of the pelvis ; but when * It is not uncommon to see the rectum on the right side of the sacrum. In the dissecting-room of University College in one Winter (1854—1855) I saw three examples of the rectum in that situation. In two bodies the lower end of the left colon crossed the spine at the top of the sacrum, and the rectum descended through the pelvis, on the right of the middle line, to the end of the coccyx. In the third the large intestine crossed the spine twice, once at the top of the sacrum, and again about the middle of that bone.