CONNECTIONS OF BLADDER. distended it becomes of a conical shape, with the larger part towards and projects the rectum, and the apex to the abdominal wall. In distension Jjg™ vvhei1 during life it is slightly curved forwards over the pelvis, as it projects above the bone ; and if a line through its centre were prolonged, it would touch the abdominal wall anteriorly somewhere Axis, (according to the distension) between the umbilicus and the pubes, and the end of the sacrum or the coccyx posteriorly. The position and form of the bladder are not the same in early Position in life as in the adult. For in the child this viscus rises above the ^thagel™8 brim of the pelvis into the hypogastric region of the abdomen, and the cervix is the lowest part. But in the adult the bladder is con- tained within the space enclosed by the pelvic bones, and the base projects inferiorly. The organ is maintained in position by the recto-vesical fascia and the peritoneum, which form its ligaments (pp. 549 and 551). The connections of the bladder moderately full are the follow- ing :— The summit or apex is rounded, and from its anterior part three Al3(lx lia\ _ 7 1 cords on it. ligamentous cords are prolonged to the umbilicus ; the central one of these is the remains of the urachus ; and the two lateral are formed by the obliterated hypogastric arteries. If the bladder is distended the apex is above, but otherwise below the pubes. All the surface behind the obliterated vessels is covered by peritoneum. The base (fundus) is large, and rests on the middle piece of the Case rectum : in the state of emptiness of the bladder the base is scarcely prominent, but in distension of the viscus, it extends lower, and ^™ \n becomes widened. Connected with the fundus are the vesicular , .." parts m seminales and the vasa deferentia ; and between these is a triangular contact space, from which the peritoneum is mostly absent. Surfaces of the body. The front of the body is in contact with Surfaces; the posterior surface of the symphysis pubis, and with the abdominal wall if it is distended, and is altogether free from peritoneum ; whilst the posterior surface is entirely covered by the serous mem- andpos- brane, and is touched often by the small intestine. tenor. Extending along the upper part of each lateral region is the La1^1^ obliterated hypogastric vessel : and running down behind this is the vas deferens, which passes internal to the ureter. Near the base the ureter enters the bladder. All the side of the bladder behind the hypogastric vessel is covered by peritoneum, but the rest is uncovered. The neck (cervix) is the narrow anterior part of the bladder that Neck, joins the urethra : in the state of contraction it is the lowest point of the viscus, but in distension it is above the level of the fundus. It is surrounded by the prostate gland. The ureter (fig. 172, It) crosses the common or the external iliac Ureter in artery, and forms an arch below the level of the obliterated hypo- peUls' gastric vessel ; it enters the bladder near the base, and somewhat ™t(7f bladder on the side, at the distance of one inch and a half or two inches from the prostate gland. The trostate gland (fig. 172, b) surrounds the neck of the Position of