329 REFLEXIONS OF PLEURA. approach near each other. To the portions before and behind that viscus the terms " anterior and posterior mediastina " are sometimes applied. The part in front of the heart (anterior mediastinum) extends from Part of sep- the back of the sternum to the pericardium. Behind the second 0f tiieVeart' piece of the sternum the pleural bags touch each other, but above and below that spot they are separated by an interval ; so that the space between them (interpleural) is narrowed at the centre, and is inclined below to the left of the middle line. In the upper part of the contents, space are the remains of the thymus gland, and the origin of some of the hyoid and thyroid muscles ; and in the lower part is some areolar tissue, together with the triangularis sterni muscle of the left side. The part behind the heart (posterior mediastinum) intervenes Part behind between the back of the pericardium with the roots of the lungs, J^ier space and the spinal column. Its lateral boundaries are the opposite pleural sacs, which are separated here by a larger interpleural in- terval than in front of the heart. If the pleura be divided behind the lung on the right side, the extent of the space and its contents will appear :—in it are contained the different bodies on the front its contents, of the spine, viz., the aorta, the vena azygos, the thoracic duct, the oesophagus with its nerves, the trachea, the splanchnic nerves at the lower part, and some lymphatic glands. Dissection. The pleura and the fat are now to be cleaned from clean Peri" „ ., . , „ , . ,. cardmm and trie side 01 the pericardium. The root of the lung is to be dissected out by taking away the j-oot of pleura and the areolar tissue from the front and back, without in- juring its several component vessels. In this dissection the phrenic Trace the artery and nerve will be found in front of the root, together with nerves a few nerves (anterior pulmonary) ; the last are best seen on the left side. Behind the root of,the lung is the vagus nerve, dividing into branches ; and arching above the right one is the large azygos vein. For the present, the arch of the aorta and the small nerves on it and vein, may be left untouched. The thymus body is a fetal organ, like the thyroid body, whose ^o^in use is unknown. It occupies chiefly the upper part of the thorax ; fetus, and it may be best examined in a full-grown fetus. At birth it is' about two inches in length, and is of a grayish Size colour : it possesses two lobes of a conical form, which touch each other. Its upper end is pointed and extends on the trachea as high and extent as the thyroid body ; and the lower wider part reaches as far as the fourth rib. In the thorax it rests on the aortic arch and large at birth. vessels, on the left innominate vein, and on the pericardium. In the adult all that remains of the thymus is a brownish rather Remains in adult firm material in the interpleural space beneath the upper end of the sternum. 9 In its perfect state it resembles much the thyroid body ; and a Structure, whitish fluid, containing lymph-like corpuscles, escapes from it when it is cut.