441 EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. sides (p. 431). The vein accompanying the arteries enters the pelvis through the triangular perineal ligament. The dorsal artery, one on each side, pierces the suspensory liga- ^,^alof ment, and extends forwards to the glans, where it ends in many penis, branches for that structure : in its course the vessel supplies the ^ • integuments and the body of the penis. It may be derived from the accessory pudic (p. 432). The dorsal vein is a single trunk, and commences by numerous Dorsal vein branches from the glans penis and the prepuce. It runs backwards prostatic by the side of the artery, through the suspensory ligament, and the plexus, triangular ligament of the urethra, to join the prostatic plexus of veins. The vein receives branches from the erectile structure and the teguments of the penis. Each dorsal nerve takes the same course as the artery, and ends Dorsal nerve like it in numerous branches to the glans penis. It furnishes a of pudlc- large branch to the corpus cavernosum penis, and other offsets to the integuments of the dorsum, sides, and prepuce of the penis. In the female these vessels are much smaller than in the male ; J^^Jg 011 they occupy the upper surface of the clitoris—the organ that repre- sents the penis. Dissection of the muscles. The surface of the external muscle of To expose the abdominal wall (fig. 133) is now to be freed from fascia on oblique both sides of the body. muscle. It is not advisable to begin cleaning this muscle in front, because Precautions, there it has a thin aponeurosis, which is taken away too readily with the fat. Beginning the dissection at the posterior part, the student is to carry the knife obliquely upwards and downwards in the direction of the fibres. The thin aponeurosis before referred to is in front of a line extended upwards from the anterior end of the iliac crest; and as the dissector approaches that spot, he must be careful not to injure the tendon, more particularly above, where it lies on the margin of the ribs, and is very indistinct. On the right side the external abdominal ring, c, may be defined, ^dQ^2fal to show the cord passing through it; and on the left side a thin ring, fascia (intercolumnar), which is connected with the margin of that opening, is to be preserved. Lastly the free border of the external oblique should be made evident between the last rib and the iliac crest. Muscles of the abdominal wall. On the side of the abdomen On the side are three large flat muscles, which are named from their position fat muscles to one another, and from the direction of their fibres. The most superficial muscle is the external oblique ; the underlying one, the internal oblique ; and the deepest, the transversalis. Along the middle line are placed other muscles which have a ver- whose apo- . . neuroses tical direction. . In front lie the rectus and pyramidalis, and behind incase three is the quadratus lumborum : these are encased by sheaths derived vertical, from the aponeuroses of the lateral muscles. The EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 133, A) is fleshy 011 the side, External and aponeurotic on the fore part of the abdomen. It arises by muscle, fleshy processes from the eight lower ribs; the five highest pieces origin from ribs.