SECOND LAYER OF MUSCLES. 681 Digital nerves on the toes. Each of the outer three nerves, being give cu- divided at the spot mentioned, supplies the contiguous sides of two anTartlcu- toes, whilst the first belongs altogether to the inner side of the great lar offsets, toe ; all give offsets to the teguments, and the cutis beneath the nail, and articular filaments are distributed to the joints as in the fingers. The external plantar nerve (fig. 209, 2) is spent chiefly in the deep External muscles of the sole of the foot, but it furnishes digital nerves to onTtoe and both sides of the little toe, and the outer side of the next. It cor- a half; responds in its distribution with the ulnar nerve in the hand. It has the same course as the external plantar artery, and divides has super- at the outer margin of the flexor brevis digitorum into a superficial (jg6p paTts. and a deep portion :—the former gives origin to two digital nerves ; but the latter accompanies the arch of the plantar artery into the foot, and will be dissected afterwards. Whilst the external plantar nerve is concealed by the short flexor Branches., of the toes, it gives muscular branches to the abductor minimi digiti and the flexor accessorius. The digital branches of the external plantar nerve (fig. 208) are Two digital two. One (7) is undivided ; it is distributed to the outer side brancnes: of the little toe, and gives offsets to the flexor brevis minimi one sin&le> digiti, and oftentimes to the interosseous muscles of the fourth space. The other (8) bifurcates at the cleft between the outer two 0ne divided toes, and supplies their collateral surfaces : this nerve communi- cates in the foot with the last digital branch of the internal plantar nerve. On the sides of the toes the digital nerves have the same dis- distribution tribution as those from the other plantar trunk, and end like them in a tuft of fine branches at the extremity of the digit. Dissection (fig. 209). To complete the preparation of the second Lay hare layer of muscles, trie origin of the abductor pollicis should be iayer 0f detached from the os calcis, and the muscle should be turned in- muscles, wards. The internal plantar nerve and artery, and the superficial portion of the external plantar nerve, are to be cut across and thrown forwards ; but the external plantar artery and the nerve with it are not to be injured. All the fat, and the loose tissue and fascia, are then to be taken away near the toes. Second layer of muscles (fig. 209). In this layer are the Second tendons of the two flexor muscles at the back of the leg, viz., flexor layei* longus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, which cross one another. Connected with the former, soon after it enters the foot, is an accessory muscle ; and at its division into pieces four fleshy slips (lumbricales) are added to it. The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum (fig. 209, B), whilst Tendon of entering the foot beneath the annular ligament, lies on the internal *|je flexor of lateral ligament of the ankle joint. In the foot it is directed obliquely towards the centre, where it is joined by the tendon of divides into the flexor longus pollicis and the accessory muscle, and divides into four: tendons for the four outer toes. Each tendon enters the sheath of the toe with, and beneath a these pierce