THE TONSIL. 131 and gives rise to the eminence of the posterior pillar, l, of the soft ryngeus, in palate. The muscle is attached below to the posterior border of the ^iate°f S°ft thyroid cartilage, some fibres blending with the contiguous portion of the pharynx ; and it decussates across the middle line with corresponding fibres of the muscle of the opposite side (Merkel)0 ^eiits1" Ascending thence behind the tonsil, the fibres enter the side of the palate, and separate into layers (fig. 30,4). The posterior, thin Strata in and in contact with the mucous membrane, joins at the middle line palate> a like offset of its fellow. The deeper or anterior stratum, much the strongest, enters the substance of the palate between the levator and tensor, and joins at the middle line the corresponding part of the opposite muscle, whilst some of the upper fibres end on the aponeurosis of the palate. In the palate the muscle encloses the levator palati and azygos uvulae between its two strata. Action. Taking its fixed point at the thyroid cartilage the muscle Use: depresses and makes tense the soft palate. 011 pala e' During the act of swallowing both muscles move back the lower !n swallow edge of the velum towards the pharynx ; and approaching each ' other form an oblique plane for the direction of the food : in that state the uvula lies in the interval between the two. The azygos UVULAE (fig. 29D) is situate along the middle line of Azygos _ the velum near the posterior surface. The muscle consists of two single along narrow slips of pale fibres, which arise from the spine at the posterior middle; border of the hard palate, or from the contiguous aponeurosis, and end inferiorly in the tip of the uvula. Behind this muscle, attaeh- separating it from the mucous membrane, is the thin stratum of the ments- palato-pharyngeus. Action. Its fibres elevate the uvula, shortening the mid-part of use. the soft palate, and direct that process backwards. The tonsil, K, is a collection of follicular capsules resembling Tonsil is those on the dorsum line: U93, which is placed close above the base pfn^fof of the tongue, and between the arches of the soft palate. Each is palate, roundish in shape, but variable in size ; and apertures are apparent on its surface. Externally the'tonsil is situate opposite the superior constrictor muscle and the angle of the lower jaw; and when en- larged it may press against the internal carotid blood-vessel. The apertures on the surface lead to rounded terminal recesses or Formed of hollows which are lined by mucous membrane. Around each recess f°iJf~cap" is a ring of small closed capsules, which are seated in the tissue beneath the mucous membrane, and are filled with a grayish sub- stance containing cells and nuclear-looking bodies. No openings from the capsules are to be recognised in the recesses. Its arteries are numerous and are derived from the facial, lingual, Vessels, ascending pharyngeal, and internal maxillary branches of the ex- ternal carotid. Its veins have a plexif orm arrangement on the outer * Dr. Merkel, in the work before referred to, states that this muscle has no firm fixed attachment below, and that it ends altogether in the wall of the pharynx, decussating with the muscle of the opposite side. This assertion does not accord with my experience. K 2