BKACHIAL PLEXUS. 249 be cut across below the second rib,* and to be drawn down with hooks ; and their thoracic branches may be removed at the same time. A dense fascia is to be cleared away from the large nerves of the plexus. The brachial plexus results from the union of the anterior Nerves branches of the four lower cervical nerves with part of the first entering r . brachial dorsal; and a slip is added to it above, from the lowest nerve in plexus, the cervical plexus. It is placed successively in the neck and the its situation axilla, and is divided opposite the coracoid process into large trunks for the supply of the limb. The part of the plexus above the clavicle is described in the dissection of the head and neck (p. 72). The part below the clavicle has the same connections with the ^beonnec" surrounding muscles as the axillary artery. The nerve trunks interlace in it generally in the following manner :—• At first the plexus consists of two bundles of nerves, winch lie J^nnt^J^g on the outer side of the artery, and are thus constituted ;—the one cords nearest the vessel is formed by the last cervical with a piece of the first dorsal nerve ; and the other, by the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves. A little lower down a third or posterior cord is produced by the union of two fasciculi, one from each of the other bundles ; so that, beneath the small pectoral muscle, the plexus con- ^tery1 the sists of three large cords, one being on the outer side, another in- ternal to, and the third behind the vessel. Occasionally there may be some deviation from the above-mentioned arrangement. The branches of the plexus below the clavicle arise from the ^n^hes several cords in the following way :— viz., The outer cord gives origin to one anterior thoracic branch, the from the musculocutaneous trunk, and the outer head of the median nerve. outer' The inner cord produces a second anterior thoracic nerve, the inner> and inner head of the median, the internal cutaneous, the nerve of Wrisberg, and the ulnar nerve. The posterior cord furnishes the subscapular branches, and ends J?^61101* in the circumflex and musculo-spiral trunks. Only the thoracic and subscapular nerves are dissected to their The follow- termination at present ; the remaining nerves will be seen in the Vfz., arm. The anterior thoracic branches (fig. 70, 1 and 2), two in number, ^QT^^n0V are named outer and inner, like the cords from which they come. The outer nerve crosses inwards over the axillary artery, to the outer under surface of the great pectoral muscle in which it ends. On the inner side of the vessel it communicates with the following branch. The inner thoracic branch turns upwards between the artery and and inner, vein, and after receiving the offset from the other, ends in many branches to the under surface of the pectoralis minor. Some twigs enter the great pectoral muscle, after passing either through the pectoralis minor or above its border. The subscapular nerves are three in number, and take their names ^"pular1-*" from the muscles supplied :— * The student must be careful not to cut the vessels higher than the spot mentioned, otherwise he will injure the dissection of the neck.