CONSTRICTOR MUSCLES. 123 ;—tensor palati, lies between the internal pterygoid plate and muscle ; and the other,—levator palati, is farther in, and larger. The pharynx is situate behind the nose, mouth, and larynx. Its Pharynx, extent is from the base of the skull to the cricoid cartilage of the Extent> larynx, where it ends in the oesophagus. In form it is somewhat form, conical, with the dilated part upwards ; and in length it measures length, from five to six inches. The tube of the pharynx is incomplete in front, where it com- is an incom- municates with the cavities above mentioned, but is quite closed plete bag" behind. On each side of it are placed the trunks of the carotid Connec- arteries, with the internal jugular vein, and the accompanying cranialtl0us' and sympathetic nerves. Behind it is the spinal column, covered by muscles, viz. longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major. In front the pharynx is united to the larynx, the hyoid bone, and Attach- the tongue, and to the bony framework of the nasal cavity ; but ments- behind it is unattached, and is formed chiefly of thin, fleshy strata. In the posterior wall are contained elevator and constrictor muscles ; Construc- and at the upper end the bag is further completed by an aponeurotic tlon" expansion which fixes it to the base of the skull. The whole is lined by mucous membrane. The aponeurosis of attachment is seen at the upper part of the Aponeurosis pharynx, where the muscular fibres are absent, to connect the tube ot 1>haiynx- to the. base of the skull, and to complete the posterior boundary. Superiorly it is fixed to the basilar process of the occipital, and the petrous part of the temporal bone, as well as to the cartilage between the two ; but inferiorly it becomes thin, and extends between the muscular and mucous strata. On this membrane some of the fibres of the constrictor muscles terminate. The constrictors are three thin muscles, which are arranged like Constric- scales, the lower partly overlaying the middle, and the middle the tois upper. The inferior constrictor (fig. 28,A),the most superficial and lowest, ^o^er arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage ; from the oblique line arises from and upper and lower borders of the thyroid cartilage, and from lar^nx the surface of the latter behind the oblique line. The origin is ^emMd!? small when compared with the insertion, for the fibres are directed line, backwards, radiating, and are inserted into a raphe along the middle line, where the muscles of opposite sides meet. The outer surface of the muscle is in contact with the sheath of ParJs "1 . contact the carotid artery, and with the muscles covering the spinal column, with it. The lower border is straight, and is continuous with the fibres of the oesophagus ; whilst the upper border overlaps the fibres of the middle constrictor (b). The recurrent nerve and vessels (5) enter beneath the lower border. The middle constrictor (fig. 28, B), has nearly the same shape as Middle con the preceding, that is to say, it is narrowed in front and expanded ,stnctor- behind. Its fibres arise from the great cornu of the os hyoides, from origin from the small cornu of the same bone, and from the stylo-hyoid ligament. hy0ld boue* Prom this origin the fibres radiate, and are blended along the middle line with the opposite muscle.