UKETHRAL HALF OF THE REGION. 423 ficial perinseal) may be seen on the right side, where they lie offsets to for a short distance in the ischio-rectal fossa. mental" The hcemorrhoidal branch of the fourth sacral 7ierve (3) reaches Brancli of the ischio-rectal fossa by piercing the fibres of the levator ani. sacral nerve Appearing in the posterior part of the fossa, near the coccyx, the nerve ends by supplying the external sphincter, and the integuments supplies i i.'i sphincter behind the anus. and Skin> One or two cutaneous tranches of the small sciatic nerve (4) turn offsets of round the lower border of the gluteus, in their course to the tegu- s^^ic ments on its surface. ANTERIOR HALF OF THE PERINEAL SPACE. In the anterior part of the perinseal space are lodged the crura of Urethral the penis, and the tube of the urethra as it courses from the interior Contents of the pelvis to the surface of the body. Placed about midway and general between the bones, the urethra is supported by the triangular ^Jg10n of ligament of the perinseum, and by its union with the penis. Muscles are collected around the urethra to aid in the expulsion of the contents of that tube : some of these are superficial to, and some within the triangular ligament. The vessels and nerve lie along the outer side, as in the posterior half, and send inwards offsets. Dissection (fig. 130). To raise the skin from the anterior half of Incisions to the perinseum, a transverse cut is to be made at the back of the Skin. scrotum, and is to be continued for a short distance (two inches) on each thigh. A second incision along the middle line will allow the flaps of skin to be reflected outwards. After the removal of the j^JJ^ skin the subcutaneous fat (superficial fascia) which covers the fascia, and front of the perinseal space, is to be blown up by means of a pipe reflect lt- introduced beneath it posteriorly. Each side is to be inflated to demonstrate a partition along the middle line, and a septum between the perinseal space and the thigh which prevents the air passing to the limb. The student is next to cut through the superficial fascia on the left side from the scrotum to the ischio-rectal fossa ; and after reflecting it, and removing loose fatty tissue, its line of attachment to the bones externally, and to the triangular ligament posteriorly, will be brought into view. The septum along the middle line should be also defined. To show more completely the attachment of this tionbetween subcutaneous layer to the pubic arch between the perinseal space ^^J^1 and the thigh, it will be necessary to take away from the left limb space, the fat on the fascia lata, external to the line of the bone. In the fat of the thigh on the right side the student should seek On right the inferior pudendal nerve, which pierces the fascia lata one inch £nfeifor^ anterior to the tuber ischii, and about the same distance from the pndend margin of the pubic arch ; and should trace its junction in the fat nene' with the inferior hsemorrhoidal nerve. Afterwards the nerve is to be followed forwards to where it enters beneath the superficial fascia in the middle line.