DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 528 Vessels of Vessels of the vas deferens. A special artery is furnished to the the duet. excretory duct from the upper or lower vesicle, and reaches as far as the testis, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. Veins from the epididymis enter the spermatic vein. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. Section V. DIAPHRAGM WITH AORTA AND YEN A CAVA. Dissect "blood vessels and muscles. To see the diaphragm. Define arches. Diaphragm, situation and form. Origin at the circum- ference. Insertion of fibres into a central tendon. Parts in contact with the under surface, and with the upper. Attachment of border. Directions. After the body is replaced in its former position on the Back, the student should prepare first the diaphragm, next the large vessels and their branches, and then the deep muscles of the abdomen. Dissection. For the dissection of the diaphragm it will be neces- sary to remove the peritoneum, defining especially the central tendinous part, and the fleshy processes or pillars which are fixed to the lumbar vertebra}. Whilst cleaning the muscle the student should be careful of the vessels and nerves on the surface, and of others in and near the pillars. On the right side two aponeurotic bands or arches, near the spine, which give attachment to the muscular fibres, should be dissected : —one curves over the internal muscle (psoas) ; the other extends over the external muscle (quadratus), and will be made more evident by separating from it the fascia covering the quadratus. The diaphragm (fig. 168,A) forms the vaulted moveable partition between the thorax and the abdomen. It is fleshy externally, where it is attached to the surrounding ribs and the spinal column, and has its tendon in the centre. The origin of the muscle is at the circumference, and is similar on each side of the middle line. Thus, it is connected by fleshy slips with the inner surface of the xiphoid cartilage, and of the six lower ribs ; with two aponeurotic arches between the last rib and the spinal column—one being placed over the quadratus lumborum, and the other over the psoas muscle; and, lastly, it is connected with the lumbar vertebras by a thick muscular piece or pillar. From this extensive origin the fibres are directed inwards, with different degrees of obliquity and length, to the central tendon, but some have a peculiar disposition in the pillars which will be afterwards noted (page 530). The abdominal surface is concave, and is covered for the most part by the peritoneum. In contact with it on the right side are the liver and the kidney ; and on the opposite side, the stomach, the spleen, and the left kidney : in contact also with the pillars is the pancreas, together with the solar plexus and the semilunar ganglia. The thoracic surface is covered by the pleura of each side and the pericardium, and is convex towards the thorax (p. 3G9). At the circumference of the midriff the fleshy processes of origin