216 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. contact with the fornix, to which it supplies vessels. And the lower surface, looking to the third ventricle, covers the pineal body, and is over third a part of each optic thalamus : underneath it in the middle line are ventricle; ^ tw0 choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. Along each side is another vascular roll (choroid plexus), on its side The choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle (fig. 64,/) is the red, roMplexus somewhat rounded and fringed margin of the piece of pia mater of the contained in the lateral ventricle, which extends from the foramen ventricle. °^ Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. Its lower end is larger than the upper. On its surface the choroid plexus is villous ; and the villi, minutely subdivided, are covered by flattened nucleated epithelium, with fat granules and pigment in the cells.* Vessels of Vessels of the velum. Small arteries have been already traced to the velum, the veium and the choroid plexus from the cerebral and cerebellar Arteries; arteries (p. 182): they are three on each side, and supply the sur- veins; rounding cerebral substance. The veins of the choroid plexus receive branches from the ventricle, and end in the following, with veins Veins of Galen. Along the centre of the velum are placed two of Galen. jarge veins with this name ; they begin at the foramen of Monro, by the union of branches from the corpus striatum and the choroid plexus. Lying side by side in the membrane they are usually united into one at the posterior part of the velum ; and through this they join the straight sinus. Dissection. Dissection. When the velum interpositum has been raised and thrown backwards, the third ventricle will be visible (fig. 68). In reflecting the piece of pia mater the student must be careful of the pineal body (g) behind, which would otherwise be detached, as it is surrounded by the membrane. On the under surface of the velum are the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. Other The choroid plexuses of the third ventricle are two short and plexuses. narrow fringed bodies below the velum, which resemble the like structures in the lateral ventricle. Third The third ventricle is the interval between the optic thai ami ventricle (fig gg^ jts situation is in the middle line of the cerebrum, below is^near base the level of the other ventricles with which it communicates ; and it reaches to the base of the brain. Its boundaries and communica- tions are the following :— Roof. The roof is formed by the velum interpositum and the fornix. Floor. The floor is very oblique from behind forwards, so that the depth of the cavity is about an inch in front and half an inch behind : it corresponds with the parts at the base of the brain, which lie between the crura cerebri and the median fissure (fig. 59), viz., locus perforatus, corpora albicantia tuber cinereum, commissure of the optic nerves, and lamina cinerea. On the sides of the cavity Sies? 011 thC are s^uate tne optic thalami (b). In front of the space are the in front descending pillars of the fornix, with the anterior commissure of the * Particles of brain sand, like that in the pineal body, are sometimes present in the choroid plexus.