DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 596 Dissection. An anterior and a posterior ligament, with a flbro- cartilage. Union of the cornua. Union be- tween the sacrum and hip bone. To dissect the liga- ments. Anterior ligament. Posterior ligaments ; one more distinct, the oblique. Articular cartilage. Motion is very slight, as security required; common ligament. And there is a separate articulation for the cornua of the bones. Dissection. Little dissection is needed for these ligaments. When the areolar tissue has been removed altogether from the bones, the ligaments will be apparent. The anterior ligament (sacro-coccygeal) consists of a few fibres that pass between the bones in front of the fibro-cartilage. The posterior ligament is wide at its attachment to the last piece of the sacrum, but narrows as it descends to be inserted into the coccyx. The fibro-cartilage resembles that between the bodies of the other vertebrae, and is attached to the surfaces of the bones. Articulation of the cornua. The cornua of the first piece of the coccyx are united with the cornua of the last sacral vertebra by ligamentous bands, and not by joints as in the articular processes of the other vertebras. Movement. Whilst the coccyx remains unossified to the sacrum, a slight antero-posterior movement will take place between them. Sacroiliac Articulation. The irregular surfaces by which the sacrum and the innominate bone articulate, are united by cartilage (synchondrosis), and are maintained in contact by anterior and posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. Inferiorly the bones are further connected, without being in contact, by the strong sacro-sciatic ligaments. Dissection. To see the posterior ligaments, the mass of muscle at the back of the sacrum is to be removed on the side on which the innominate bone remains. The thin anterior bands will be visible on the removal of some areolar tissue. The small sacro-sciatic liga- ment will be brought into view by removing the coccygeus ; and the large ligament is dissected with the lower limb. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a few thin scattered fibres between the bones, near their articular surfaces. The posterior ligaments (sacro-iliac) are much stronger than the anterior, and the fibres are collected into bundles : these ligaments pass from the rough inner surface, at the hinder end of the in- nominate bone, to the first two pieces of the sacrum. One bundle, which is distinct from the others, and more superficial, is named the oblique or long posterior ligament ; it is attached to the posterior upper iliac spinous process, and descends almost vertically to the third piece of the sacrum. Articular cartilage. Between the irregular surfaces of the bones* is a thin uneven layer of cartilage (fig. 187, a). It fits into the inequalities of the osseous surfaces, uniting them very firmly to- gether. On separating the bones after the other ligaments are examined, the cartilage may be detached with a knife. Movement. There is scarcely any appreciable motion in the sacro- iliac articulation, even when the hip-bone is seized by the hand, and pulled forcibly in different directions. The articulation seems designed for security and little movement, inasmuch as the surfaces are not in contact, are very irregular, and have a firm and in-