244 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Trace vessels and nerves. Divide the rest of the muscle to see its insertion. Tendon of insertion of pectoralis. Parts covered by the muscle. Pectoralis minor arises from chest: inserted into coracoid. Connections with parts around. Use on scapula, on ribs. cut piece of the muscle, and press the limb against the edge of the table, for the purpose of raising the clavicle and rendering tight the fascia attached to that bone ; on carefully removing the fat, and a piece of fascia prolonged from the upper border of the small pectoral muscle, the membranous costo-coracoid sheath will be seen close to the clavicle, covering the axillary vessels and nerves. At this stage the cephalic vein is to be defined as it crosses in- wards to the axillary vein. A branch of nerve (anterior thoracic), and the acromial thoracic vessels, which perforate the sheath around the axillary trunks, are to be followed to the pectoral muscles. The remaining part of the pectoralis major may be cut about its centre, and the pieces may be thrown inwards and outwards. Any fat coming into view is to be removed; and the insertion of the tendon of the pectoralis is to be followed to the iiumerus. Insertion of the pectoralis. The tendon of the pectoralis consists of two parts, anterior and posterior, at its attachment to the bone ;—. the anterior receives the clavicular and upper sternal fibres, and joins the tendon of the deltoid muscle ; and the posterior gives attachment to the lower ascending fibres. The tendon is from two inches to two inches and a half wide, and sends upwards one ex- pansion over the bicipital groove to the capsule of the shoulder joint, and another to the fascia of the arm. Parts covered by the pectoralis. The great pectoral muscle covers the pectoralis minor, and forms alone, above and below that muscle, the anterior boundary of the axilla. Between the pectoralis minor and the clavicle it conceals the subclavius muscle, the sheath con- taining the axillary vessels, and the branches perforating that sheath. Below the pectoralis minor it lies on the side of the chest, on the axillary vessels and nerves, and on the biceps and coraco- brachialis muscles near the humerus. The pectoralis minor (fig. 70, B) resembles the preceding muscle in shape, and is extended like it from the thorax to the arm. Its origin is connected by slips with the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, external to their cartilages; and between the ribs, with the aponeu- rosis covering the intercostal muscles. The fibres converge to their insertion into the anterior half of the upper surface of the coracoid process of the scapula. This muscle is placed before the axillary space, and assists the pectoralis major in forming the middle of the anterior boundary : in that position it conceals the axillary vessels and the accompany- ing nerves. The upper border lies near the clavicle, but between it and that bone is an interval of a somewhat triangular form. The lower border projects beyond the pectoralis major, close to the chest ; and along it the long thoracic artery lies. The tendon of insertion is united with the short head of the biceps and the coraco- brachialis. Action. Acting with the serratus magnus it moves the scapula forwards and somewhat downwards. In laborious breathing it becomes an inspiratory muscle, as it takes its fixed point at the scapula. M