DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 86 the deep cervical fascia, which extends from the styloid process to the hinder border of the ramus of the jaw : it gives attachment to the stylo-glossus muscle, and separates the parotid and submaxillary glands. Surface of Articular surfaces of the bones. The lower jaw possesses a thin narrow condyle, which is elongated transversely, and directed back- wards and inwards, and tem- On the temporal bone is a narrow deep articular hollow (glenoid porai bone. fossa^ wllic]l ig lengthened from without in, and is placed in front of Fig. 19.* Fig. 20.f Kinds of movement. In opening the mouth, how jaw moves. State of ligaments. Shutting mouth ; condyle moves. State of ligaments. the Glaserian fissure. In front of this is a prominence of bone, (transverse root of the zygomatic process) which is convex from before back. Movements of the joint This condyloid articulation is provided with an up and down, a to and fro, and a lateral movement. In depressing the jaw, as in opening the mouth, the articular con- dyle moves forwards till it is placed under the convexity at the fore part of the articular hollow ; but the interposed concave fibro- cartilage gives security to the joint. Even with this provision, a slight degree more of sudden motion throws the condyle off the prominence of the temporal bone into the zygomatic fossa, and gives rise to dislocation. In this movement the fore and lateral parts of the capsule are made tight; and the fibro-cartilage is drawn forwards with the con- dyle by the external pterygoid muscle. 'When the jaw is elevated and the mouth closed, the condyle and the fibro-cartilage glide back into the glenoid fossa. In this posi- tion the jaw is placed in the state of greatest security against dis- location. The ligaments and the surrounding muscles, which were stretched in the previous movement, are then set at rest. * Ligament of the jaw—an inner view (Bourgery and Jacob). 1. Internal lateral ligament. 2. Stylo-maxillary. f A view of the interior of the compound temporo-maxillary joint (Bourgery and Jacob). 3. Stylo-maxillary ligament. 4. Interarticular fibro-cartilage— the dark intervals above and below show the hollows containing the synovial membranes.