401 SACRAL AND COCCYGEAL NERVES. fibres are directed obliquely inwards, some extending more than the length of one vertebra, to be inserted into the spines and the insertion. neural arches of the vertebras from the second cervical to the third sacral. This muscle fills chiefly the vertebral groove, and is concealed Oonnec- by the erector spinas and the semispinalis. The internal branches tl0ns" of the vessels and nerves in the back lie along its outer border. The small muscles described below may be said to be slips of the multifidus. Action. By the use of the muscle of both sides, the spinal column Use of both' can be extended ; and by the contraction of one, the spine will be rotated in the dorsal region and the neck, the face being turned ^ls^e to the opposite side. * Rotatores dorsi (Theile). These are eleven small muscles be- Rotatores neath the multifidus spinas in the dorsal region, and are separated part?of6 from it by fine areolar tissue. Each is attached inferiorly to the multifidus. tip and upper edge of a transverse process, and superiorly to the lower border of the neural arch of the vertebra next above. The first springs from the transverse process of the second vertebra. Action. These small rotators will assist the larger muscle (multi- Use- fidus) in turning the trunk to the opposite side. * The aponeurosis common to the multifidus and erector spinas is Aponeurosis fixed firmly to the surrounding bones, and furnishes attachment to Mus. the muscular fibres. In the middle line it is united with the spines of the lower lumbar vertebras and sacrum. On the outer side it is attached to the posterior part of the iliac crest, and to the outer row of tubercles on the back of the sacrum, being connected at the last spot with the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Above, it is con- tinued some way on the surface of the erector spinas, but further on the longissimus dorsi than the ilio-costalis. Below, the latissimus dorsi and the vertebral aponeurosis blend with its cutaneous surface (p. 389). * Dissection (Jig. 120). To find the branches of the sacral nerves, Dissection it will be necessary to remove the part of the multifidus spinas nerves?1 which covers the sacrum. The first three nerves are split into two each : their external pieces will be found readily on the great sacro-sciatic ligament, from which they may be traced inwards ; the inner branches are very slender and difficult to be recognised. The lowest two nerves are very small, and are to be sought on the back of the sacrum, below the attachment of the multifidus spinas. They are not bifurcated like the others, but unite together, and with the coccygeal nerve in loops. The fourth comes through a sacral aperture, and the fifth between the sacrum and coccyx. The coccygeal nerve is still lower by the side of the coccyx. Sacral Nerves (fig. 120). The posterior primary branches of Five sacral the sacral nerves are five in number. Four issue from the spinal nerves; canal by the apertures in the back of the sacrum, and the fifth between the sacrum and the coccyx. The first three have the are differ- common branching into inner and outer pieces, like the other spinal ^ted^8*1^" nerves ; but the last two are undivided. D D