158 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Insertion. Use on aperture of larynx, on sacculus, Parts inside larynx. Dissection to expose them. Laryngeal space. Upper orifice, shape, and bounda- ries. Lower opening. Cavity of larynx, shape and size. Glottis, position, directions, and are inserted into the border of the epiglottis on the same side. The strength of the muscle varies much in different bodies. Some of the lower fibres of the muscle, which cover the top of the laryngeal pouch, have been described by Mr. Hilton as a sepa- rate muscle with the name arytceno-epiglottideus inferior. Action. By the contraction of the fibres, the tip of the arytenoid cartilage will be moved forwards and inwards, and the epiglottis will be lowered over the orifice of the larynx. The fibres of the muscles which are spread over the sacculus will compress it, and assist in the expulsion of the contents. Parts inside the larynx. The parts more immediately concerned in the production of the voice are, the vocal cords, the glottis, and the ventricle of the larynx and its pouch; these are placed within, and are protected by the laryngeal cartilages. Dissection. For the purpose of displaying the vocal apparatus, let the tube of the larynx be divided along the posterior part, as in fig. 42 ; and in cutting through the arytenoid muscle, let the in- cision be rather to the right of the middle line, so as to avoid the nerves entering it. On looking into the larynx a hollow (ventricle) will appear on each side; and bounding the ventricle above and below are the whitish bands of the vocal cords. If a probe be passed into that hollow, it will enter a small pouch (sacculus laryngis) by an aperture in the anterior and upper part. The dissector should fill the sacculus on the left side by introducing a small bit of cotton wool into it. The laryngeal space reaches from the epiglottis to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. It opens above into the pharynx, and below into the trachea ; and in the intermediate portion are lodged the parts producing voice. The upper orifice of the larynx (fig. 29, N) will be evident on placing in contact the cut surfaces. It is triangular in shape, with the base in front and the apex behind, and its sides are sloped obliquely downwards in the antero-posterior direction. Its boun- daries are,—the epiglottis in front, the arytenoid muscle and carti- lages behind, and the arytamo-epiglottidean fold of mucous mem- brane on each side. This aperture is closed by the epiglottis during deglutition. The lower opening, limited by the inferior edge of the cricoid car- tilage, is circular in form, and is of the same size as that cartilage. The laryngeal cavity is much reduced in size within the thyroid cartilage by the vocal cords, and is dilated above and below them for the purpose of allowing their free vibration. The lower dilatation may be seen to be as large as the ring of the cricoid ; and the upper, much smaller, corresponds with the ventricles of the larynx. Above the upper bulge the wall of the larynx slants up to the epiglottis. The glottis or rima glottidis, is the interval between the lower vocal cords (fig. 44) ; it is placed on a level with the base of the